IN RE BUCHANAN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

In re BUCHANAN, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 12.

Original.

Argued April 16, 1895. -Decided

April 17,1895.

A question in relation to the physical and mental condition of a juror and
his competency to return a verdict is a question of fact, and this court
upon a writ of error to the highest court of a State in an action at law
cannot review its judgment upon such a question.

TILE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr.J. J. Noah and Mr. Dennis A. Spellisey for petitioner.
Ir. John D. Lindsay opposing.

Mr.John R. Ffellows was

on the brief.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Petitioner was tried in the Court of General Sessions of tile
city and county of New York upon an indictment charging
him with the murder of his wife, by poison, April 22, 1892.
The trial was commenced March 20, 1893, and was concluded
April 26 following by the rendition of a verdict of guilty. A
motion for a new trial was denied, and petitioner was sentenced August 14, 1893, to the punishment of death upon
a day within the week commencing October 2, 1893, and on
the seventeenth of August ie appealed to the Court of
Appeals. The appeal was argued before that court January
21, 1895, and the judgment affirmed February 26, 1895.
The execution of petitioner was again appointed for the week
commencing April 22. Application is made for a writ of
error to this court upon the ground that petitioner's trial,
conviction, and sentence are in contravention of the Constitution of the United States in that "petitioner is sought to
be deprived of life without due process of law," and in "that
he was not tried by an impartial jury of the State and dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

trict wherein the crime was committed." In the sixty-sixth
specification of his motion for a new trial defendant alleged
that "the verdict of the jury is not such a verdict as is contemplated by the Constitution of the United States or the
constitution of the State of New York. The only verdict
recognized thereunder is that of a jury of twelve men of
sound mind and memory, which this verdict is not." This
seems to have been the only claim of a Federal question made
in the state courts, and falls far short of that specific assertion
of a right, privileg, or immunity under the Constitution, at
the proper time and in the proper way, upon the denial of
which this court is entitled to reexamine the judgment of
a state court on writ of error.
Assuming it as sufficient, however, the contention of petitioner is thus set forth in his petition:
"Your petitioner further alleges in support of his averments
that, upon the trial of said case, one Paradise, one of the
petit jurors empanelled therein, became mentally incapacitated,
and was not in condition, mental and physical, to be consulted
and was not consulted by his fellow-jurors while deliberating
thereon; that by reason of his said mental and physical
incapacity he was absent from the jury room for nearly three
hours, separate and apart therefrom, and in company with a
physician and another person then and there attending him;
that others of the jury were allowed'to separate and communicate with outside parties pending deliberations upon the verdict ; that when finally called into court for the purpose of
delivering the verdict of said jury, Paradise's mental and
physical incapacity had not ceased, and he was still mentally
and physically incapacitated from participating in and rendering his assent to the verdict of said jury; and that therefore
said verdict was not rendered by a competent and impartial
jury, all of which petitioner avers will be shown by the
record.
"And your petitioner further represents that, notwithstanding the evident mental and physical incapacity on the part of
said juror, Paradise, the court refused to recognize the same
and ordered that the said incapacitated juror be embraced with

IN RE BUCHANAN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

his fellow-jurymen in considering and rendering their verdict,
and thereby the jury was rendered partial and, in fact, the verdict emanated from only eleven jurors, of which the record
duly attests, and whereof your petitioner is ready to submit
record proof."
In respect of these matters the Court of Appeals, People v.
Bi ch anan, 145 N. Y. 1, 29, said:
"After the jury had retired, an incident occurred, which has
been made much of and which constituted the basis, in part,
of a motion for a new trial. The jury retired in the afternoon
of April 25th. In the evening of the day following, they were
taken over to a hotel for their dinner. Paradise, one of their
number, was taken suddenly ill and fainted. A physician
was called in, who found him first unconscious and then delirious. He had him removed to another room, where he treated
him professionally. A report of the occurrence was made to
the recorder; who sent for and examined the attending physician, in the presence of the district attorney and of the
defendant's counsel. He gave a description of what had
taken place and of what he had done. ie gave his opinion
that the attack had been caused by the mental strain and he
thought the juror might be able to come to the court after a
while. Later in the evening, the juror, having improved, was
brought over and took his seat, with his associates, in the jury
box. It appeared that they had agreed upon a verdict before
the illness; but the recorder thought it inadvisable, under the
circumstances, to then receive their verdict; advising them to
again retire and confer. They did so and shortly returned
with their verdict. Upon the facts, as they were made to
appear, there was nothing to warrant the trial judge in refusing to receive the verdict.
"Subsequently, however, upon the hearing of the motion
for a new trial, certain other facts were made to appear, which
we have considered carefully, with the view of ascertaining
whether they furnish any sufficient reason for believing that
the verdict of the jury was not properly or fairly reached.
One branch of the motion was based on the ground that there
had been an illegal separation of the jurors. Affidavits were
voL. CLVI-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

read, showing that upon the removal of the sick juror from
the room, in which he and his fellow-jurors were dining
together, the other jurors separated; some running to and
fromn the sick man's room and others going in other directions
and alone. In opposition were read the affidavits of the jurors
and of the court officers; to the effect that the jurors were
always in charge of the officers ; that none of them were ever
alone and that no communication was had with them by any
person in reference to the case. Upon these proofs, it was
discretionary with the trial court to order a new trial, or not,
and with the exercise of its discretion we will not interfere.
Code Crim. Proc. sec. 465, subd. 3. It was a question of
fact and I think the judicial discretion of the learned recorder
was well exercised, in having regarded the involuntary separation of the jurors as working no possible prejudice to the
defendant. The second branch of the motion for a new trial
was based on the ground that the attack, which the juror,
Paradise, suffered from, was an expression of a generally
deranged judgment, and that his mind could not have been
clear and sound, or capable of judgment, for some hours before
and after. In support of that ground, the affidavits of several
distinguished physicians and alienists were produced and read.
It was their opinion, upon the statement of the physician, who
attended the said juror, of the juror's son and of others, detailing what had occurred, that the attack was epileptic in character. They, in substance, thought it evidenced a confirmed
epileptic condition and indicated a mental disturbance, which
must have existed for several hours and must have rendered
his mental action unreliable and valueless. In opposition to
these opinions, were read affidavits by several other physicians,
expert in mental diseases, who had made a personal examination of the juror and who gave it as their opinion that there
was no perceptible indication of epilepsy, or of paresis, and
that he was in full possession of his faculties. Upon Paradise's
statements as to his past life, they were of the opinion that he
had never suffered from epilepsy or insanity. They thought
the symptoms of his attack were those of nervous exhaustion
and of hysteria, induced by the close confinerment and the

IN

IRE BUCHANAN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

long-continued strain upon him in the performance of his duties
of a juror. His own affidavit was read, denying ever having
suffered from epileptic attacks. Ile narrated the occurrences
in the jury room and stated that after the first ballot, when he
had voted ' not guilty,' he had upon each subsequent ballot
voted ' guilty,' and that the jury had agreed upon their verdict
before they went to the hotel for their meal. Ile stated that
he felt well when he came back to court and was able to
deliberate. He gave the facts about his past life and he
showed that the day after the conclusion of the trial he had
gone away on business and remained away until June, being
in the full possession of his health and faculties. The affidavits
of physicians, who had known and attended him in the past,
stated that he bad never manifested any epileptic symptoms,
or any form of nervous disease. Other affidavits, by his
employer and by his fellow-jurors, were read to show his
mental competency.
"The recorder, in denying a new trial, had before him the
conflicting opinions of the experts, the facts stated in the affidavits and those within his own observation. It cannot be
,said that the defendant made out a case of mental incompetency in the juror. While the opinions of the physicians, secured by him, seemed to give support to his theory of a
mental or nervous disease in the juror, which incapacitated
him to deliberate or confer upon his case, they were not based
upon any personal examination, but were premised upon the
statements given them. In view of the evidence as to his
physical and mental condition upon actual examination, as to the
facts of his past life and of his condition for weeks after the
trial, the learned recorder could not well have decided otherwise than he did and I think we must agree with him that
the opinions of the experts for the people were warranted by
the evidence and that those of the defendant's experts were
not.
"The elaborate opinion, which he delivered upon the denial
of the motion for a new trial, contains a conscientious and
able review of the question and is perfectly satisfactory."
It will be seen from this statement, which sufficiently sum-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

marizes the circumstances disclosed by the record, that the
question in relation to the physical and mental condition of
the juror and his competency to return a verdict was a question of fact, and this court upon a writ of error to the highest
court of a State in an action at law cannot review its judgment upon such a question. Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S.
658, 664, and cases cited. We are unable, therefore, to discover any ground justifying the granting of the writ applied
for. Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S. 272; Lambert v. Barrett,
157 U. S. 697; In re Kemnder, 136 U. S. 436; Caldwell v.
Texas, 137 U. S. 692; MleAulty v. California,149 U. S. 645;
XcKane v. Durston, 153 U. S. 684, 687.
Application denied.

NEWPORT

ERROR TO

NEWS AND MISSISSIPPI
COMPANY v. PACE.

TIE CIRCUIT
WESTERN
No. 223.

COURT

OF THE UNITED

VALLEY

STATES FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

Argued January 31, 1895. -Decided

April 22, 1895.

The fact that objections are made to the admission or exclusion of evidence and overruled is not sufficient, in the absence of exceptions, to
bring them before the court.
It is the duty of counsel excepting to propositions submitted to a jury, to
,except to them distinctly and severally, and where they are excepted to in
mass the exception will be overruled if any of the propositions are
correct.
There is nothing in this case to take it out of the operation of these wellsettled rules.

Tins was an action for damages instituted by Pace, a citizen of Tennessee, against the Newport News and Mississippi
Valley Company and the Chesapeake, Ohio and Southwestern
Railroad Compan5, in the circuit court of Dyer County,
Tennessee, and subsequently removed into the Circuit Court
of the Inited States for the eastern division of the Western
District of Tennessee by the Newport News and Mississippi

