OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

light of any legal analogy, whether the denial of the
motion because of the plaintiff's consent could be deemed
in any proper sense an abuse of discretion.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

JUSTICE CARDOZO

and MR.

concur.

UNITED STATES v. SPAULDING:
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 161.

Argued November 15, 1934.--Decided January 7, 1935.

1. In an action on a lapsed war risk insurance policy insuring only
against " total permanent disability," the evidence established that,
since a time prior to the lapse, the insured, as the result of chronic
and incurable disorders, was partially disabled, and, at times and
during periods of substantial duration, totally disabled; but that,
in the year next following the lapse he was officially examined and
found fit for service as an air pilot, and that during the larger
part of more than eight years between the lapse and the commencement of his suit, he was able to work, and actually did so, and
earned substantial compensation. Held:
(1) That, in view of these facts, his testimony that under stress

of need he worked when not able, cannot be given weight, for he
is not entitled to recover unless he became totally disabled before
the lapse and thereafter remained in that condition. P. 505.
(2) Since he was not totally disabled when found fit for air
service and while performing work admittedly done, total disability occurring. while the policy was in force was temporary and
not permanent. P. 506.
1 (3) The fact that, notwithstanding his need of money for the
support of his family and himself, he failed for nearly nine years
to sue for the insurance money now claimed, strongly suggeats that
he had not suffered total permanent disability covered by tl e
policy. Lumbra v. United States, 290 VI.S.551, 560. And that
suggestion is emphasized by the fact that he procured examination
for reinstatement of his insurance. Id.
(4) The opinions of medical witnesses that work impaired his
health and tended to shorten his life had no substantial bearing

U. S. v. SPAULDING

499

Opinion of the Court.

498

upon the question whether total disability while the policy was in
force continued 'during the subsequent years. As against the facts
directly and conclusively established, this opinion evidence furnishes no basis for opposing inferences. P. 506.
(5) Medical opinions that he became totally and permanently
disabled before his policy lapsed are without weight, it being clear
that the experts failed to give proper consideration to his fitness for
naval .air service or to the work he performed, and misinterpreted
"total permanent disability " as used in the policy and statute
authorizing the insurance. Id.
(6) The Government's motion for a directed verdict on the
evidence should have been granted. P. 505.
2. An expert ought not be allowed to express an opinion upon the
ultimate issue of fact to be decided by the jury. P. 506.
68 F. (2d) 656, reversed.
CERTIORARI * to review the affirmance of a judgment
against the United States in an action on a war risk
insurance policy.

Mr. Wij! G. Beardslee, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs and Messrs. Wilbur C. Pickett, Randolph C. Shaw,

and W. Marvin Smith. were on the brief, for the United
States.

Mr. Warren E. Miller argued the cause and filed a brief,
and Mr. Philip D. Beall also filed a brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the

opinion of the Court.

In September, 1917, respondent, then. 24 years old, enlisted in the United States Navy. He was successively
commissioned ensign and lieutenant,. and became an air
pilot. He was honorably discharged June 30, 1922.
While in the service he obtained a-policy of war risk insurance which lapsed November 30, 1923. He brought
this suit March 15, 1932, in the federal district court for

northern Flrida to recover the amounts payable under
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

the policy for total permanent disability alleged to have
resulted from kidney disease and injuries received in an
airplane crash occurring while the policy was in force.
At the close of all the evidence the United States moved
for a directed verdict. The motion was denied, the jury
found for respondent, and the court gave him judgment
which was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 68
F. (2d) 656.
The policy covers total permanent disability, whatever
its cause, occurring before the lapse. The evidence was
not confined to that period, for respondent's subsequent.
condition is pertinent to the extent that it tends to show
whether he became totally and permanently disabled before the lapse. Lumbra v. United States, 290 Ut S. 551,
560. The United States maintains that the evidence 'was
not sufficient to sustain the verdict. And that is the sole
question presented for our consideration.
The material substance of the evidence follows.
In the latter part of 1919, respondent first had kidney
trouble. According to the naval medical records, he was.
sick four times from what was finally diagnosed as a kidney stone. These illnesses were in June and September,
1920, and in January and August, 1921; their duration in
all was about six weeks; while they lasted urinalyses
sometimes disclosed albumin, casts and corpuscles in varying quantities. Some time after the last attack, the stone
was removed. November 14, 1921, respondent's upper
and lower jaws were fractured in the airplane crash.. He
was in the riaval hospital until February, 1922. He testified that he continuously had kidney trouble and severe
pains in the head and back. When discharged the only
defect noted was that his teeth did not occlude properly'
Due to that he had gastritis February 28. Urinalysis
then disclosed very few blood cells, occasional pus cells
but no albumin or casts. The gastritis disappeared. In
May following, his teeth were treated for the malocclu-

U. S. v. SPAULDING.
498

Opinion of the Court.

sion. Respondent t6stified that he was then suffering
kidney pains and that his left antrum was much swollen.
A civilian, Dr. Quina, treated the antrum.
May 31 respondent went again to the hospital. He then
stated that two years earlier he had suffered acute illness
following exposure 'inwet and cold, had not felt well
since and for the last month had been treated for kidney
trouble. The diagnosis then made was." nephritis chronic
parenchymatous." June 26, 1922, he was examined for
discharge from the service. The medical officers noted
their opinion that the nephritis was due to toxic materials
absorbed from the antrum and that infection of the antrum resulted from injuries. sustained in the airplane
crash. He was fou nd "not physically qualified for active
duty in the Navy by reason of the following physical
defects which are of a more or less temporary nature:
Infection of left antrum and malocclusion of the teeth."
And on that day he certified that he had the following
disabilities entitling him to compensation under the War
Risk Insurance"Act: Infection of the left antrum, malocclusion of the teeth, stomach trouble and heart murmur.
He made no claim that he had 'become totally and permanently disabled or that he was entitled to the amounts
that under the policy are payable therefor.
Respondent did nothing from the time he was discharged until February, 1923. He testified that duringthat period he was ill and under the care of doctors, who
forbade work. When he finally did work, it was against
their orders and to support his family. From February,
1923, until April, 1924, he took vocational training. During that time his policy lapsed. He quit before completion of the course because, as he says, he was no better
and thought outdoor work would be good for him. Then
for more than a year he was employed as an automobile
salesman. Much riding over rough roads aggravated his
'condition and prevented continuous work. He was paid

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

a, salary of $125 per month for a part of the time and
commissions for the remainder.
Commencing about September 1, 1925, respondent for
seven months was employed as superintendent of construction of roads and ditches at a salary of $300 per
month. He next worked for an electric company during
four years and two months until September, 1930. For
the first five or six months he was a salesman and earned
commissions amounting to about $500. He then became
superintendent of electrical work at a salary of $200 per
month. Except for six or seven weeks in another year
and three months in 1930, he received salary for every
month though not able to work full time. He was discharged because he could not put ih full time. Two fellow employees testified that he was ill and at home three
or four days a month. That was his last employment.
An official record put in evidence by him shows that in
July, 1924, he was given a special physical examination
to test his qualifications for flying. It indicates recovery
from the airplane crash, heart and blood pressure normal,
no recurrence of kidney trouble. As a result of the examination he was officially certified to have no defects and
to be qualified for flying duty as a pilot.
Commencing in 1923 while the policy was still in force,
respondent was treated by Dr. Quina, to whom he went
daily during the first year and three or four times weekly
during the next two. His condition did not improve and,
because of inability to pay the doctor, he discontinued.
For a few years prior to the trial he has been going to doctors for sinus treatment as often as every other day. Oetober 31, 1928, the Veterans' Bureau examined him, apparently in connection with his application to reinstate
his insurance. He was classified as a poor risk: "This man
has a chronic nephritis. Hypertension. Urine shows occasional hyaline casts and a few red blood cells." In
March, 1930, he entered a veterans hospital at Washing-

U. S. v. SPAULDING.
498

Opinion of the Court.

ton where he remained about six weeks. The d!g-aoses
were albuminaria, nephritis diffuse mild, moderate hypertension. It was found that no hospitalization was necessary. Dr. Fowler, a consultant in urology, found the
right kidney out of position and suggested surgery. June
1, 1931, rqspondent went to a naval hospital for treatment of the infected antrum and remained there until
July 7. It was found that his blood pressure and heart
were normal. He had moderate hydro-nephrosis of the
right kidney and a kink in the upper half of the right
ureter. Urinalysis was negative.
Respondent called Dr. Quina, Dr. Bryan and Dr.
Pierpont:
Dr. Quina had treated respondent for the antrum infection for several years "fter the latter's dispharge- from the
navy. He testified that the antrum infection was irfcurable and that during the period of treatment respondent
had nephritis caused by the infection; that it did not improve, that respondent had impaired his health by working and that "In my opinion at the time I first examined
him and since that time he has not been capable of continuously carrying on a substantially gainful occupation
without injury to his health." The doctor thought that
under proper treatment respondent could live a long time.
"I would put him in bed and keep him there. If he engages in any work it will make him die a little bit sooner."
Although the witness, did not testify to any change in
respondent's condition, he said: "If a man had mild nephritis in 1923 and in 1932 has diagnosis of mild nephritis . . . his condition is much worse now than it was then
because he still has a breaking down of the kidneys."
Dr. Bryan commenced to treat respondent in July, 1929,.
and at that time found chronic nephritis. He expressed
the opinion that the disease existed in 1923. An examination a year before the trial indicated respondent had not
improved. Absolute rest was the treatment for his con-

504

4OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

dition, any work physical or mental would impair his
health and "If he continuously engages in any kind of
work he is. going to limit his days on this earth. . . . If a
man has mild nephritis in 1923 and actually works for
seven years and quits work in 1930 and then in 1932 still
has a diagnosis of only mild nephritis I would say that he
had injured himself, for a man with that type of disease
would injure his health by doing any kind of work. By
working he has made it worse; he might have recovered.
I would * . . say he was totally and permanently disabled. I don't know about his disability from an occupational standpoint."
Dr. Pierpont never treated respondent but examined
him three times shortly before the trial. He found chronic
nephritis, a bad heart and high blood pressure. On the
history-of the case he expressed opinion that respondent's
ailments dated back to 1922 or 1923. He said: "I would
prescribe absolute rest . . . • If plaintiff engaged in work
it . . . would impair his health. From my examination
I would say that the plaintiff is not able to continuously
engage in any substantially gainful occupation without.
impairment to his health'. . . If I had a patient who had
an inception or beginning of that disease in 1923 and ...
had actually worked for a period of seven years continuously and then quit work for two years and then in 1932
still had virtually the same condition he had in the beginning, I would say that the disease is progressive, -that
the work would make his condition worse.'
: The terms of the contract of insurance are in accordance
with § 400, Art. IV, Act of October 6, 1917, 40 Stat. 409,
and ettend-oMy to death and total permanent disability
occurring while it :is in force whether during or after termination of the service of the insured. The policy does not
cover total temporary disability or partial permanent disability and does not authorize or permit any payment
for physical or. mental, impairment that is less than "total

U. S. v. SPAULDING.
498

Opinion of the Court.

permanent disability." Periods of total temporary disability, though likely to recur at intervals, do not constitute the disability coyered by the policy, for "permanent " means that which is continuing as contrasted with
that which is "temporary." The fact that one has done
some work after the lapse of his policy is not of itself sufficient to defeat his claim of total permanent disability.
He may have worked when really unable and at the risk
of endangering his health or life. It may not be assumed
that occasional work for short periods by one generally
disabled because of impairment of mind or body does as a
matter of law negative total permanent disability. But it
is plain that work done may be such as conclusively to
negative total permanent disability at an earlier time.
Lumbra v. United States, supra, 558 et seq.
After considerate examination of the record we are of
opinion that the evidence and all inferences that justifiably may be drawn from it do not constitute- sufficient
basis for a verdict for respondent, and that therefore the
trial judge should have directed the jury to find for the
United States. Gunning v. Cooley, 281 U. S. 90, 93.
Stevens v. The White City, 285. U. S. 195, 203-4.
It is shown that since a time prior to the lapse of the
policy respondent had incurable infection of an antrum,
malocclusion of teeth and chronic nephritis that caused
illness and impaired his physical and mental powers to
such an extent that generally he was partially disabled
and, at times and during periods of substantial duration,
totally disabled. In 1924 he was found fit for service as
an air pilot. During the larger part of more than eight
years between the lapse of his policy and the commencement of this suit he was able to and actually did work and.
earn' substantial comperisation. In view of these facts
his testimony that under stress of need he worked when
not able cannot be given weight, for he is not entitled
to recover on the policy unless he became totally disabled

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

before its lapse and thereafter remained in that condition.
If not totally disabled when found fit for air service and
while performing work admittedly done, total disability
occurring while the policy was in force was temporary and
not permanent. The fact that, notwithstanding his need
of money for the support of his family and himself, he
failed for nearly nine years to sue for the insurance money
now claimed, strongly suggests that he had not suffered
total permanent disability covered by the policy. Lumbra
v. United States, supra, 560. And that suggestion is
emphasiied by the fact that in 1928 he procured examination for reinstatement of his insurance. The opinions
of respondent's medical witnesses that work impaired his
health and tended to shorten his life had no substantial
bearing upon the question whether total disability while
the policy was in force continued during the subsequent
years. As against the facts directly and conclusively established, this opinion evidence ftrnishes no basis for
opposing inferences.
The medical opinions that respondent became totally
and permanently disabled before his policy lapsed are
without weight. Clearly The experts failed to give proper
weight to his fitness for naval air service or to the work
he performed, and misinterpreted "total permanent disability" as used in the policy and statute authorizing the
insurance. Moreover, that question is not to be resolved
by opinion evidence. It was the ultimate issue to be decided by the jury upon all the evidence in obedience to the
judge's instruction as to the meaning of the crucial
phrase, and other questions of law. The experts ought
not to have been asked or.allowed to state their conclusions on the whole case. Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co.
v. Kellogg, 94 U. S. 469, 472. Schmieder v. Barney, 113.
U. S. 645, 648. Fireman's Ins. Co. v. J. H. Mohlman Co.,
91 Fed. 85, 88. Mullins Lumber Co. v. Williamson &

HELVERING v. TAYLOR.
Syllabus.

498

Brown Co., 255 Fed. 645, 646. Germantown Trust Co.v.
Lederer, 263 Fed. 672, 676.
There is nothing in the record that at all impairs the
significance of the finding that in 1924 respondent was
fit for service as an air pilot, or of the work he performed
after the lapse of the policy. These facts conclusively
establish that he did not become totally and permanently
disabled before his policy lapsed. Lumbra v. United
States, supra. Falbo v. United States, 291 U. S. 646.*
Reversed.
HELVERING,

COMMISSIONER OF
REVENUE, v. TAYLOR.

INTERNAL

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 289.

Argued December 7, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.

1. In review by certiorari the Court is not called upon to consider
any question not raised by the petition for the writ. P. 511.
2. Where a taxpayer shows before the Board of Tax Appeals that a

tax is arbitrarily assessed and excessive, his relief from payment
of it is not conditional upon his showing also the correct amount
of tax or that none was assessable. Section 274 (e), Revenue
Act of 1926, and §§ 51 (a) and 54 (a), Revenue Act of 1928,
considered. P. 512.
3. The evidence before the Board of Tax Appeals showed that a
tax on income derived from sale of preferred stock which had been
acquired at the same time as common stock of the same corporaCf. United States v. Pollock, 68 F. (2d) 633, 634. United States
v. Timmons, 68 F. (2d) 654, 655. Tracy v. United States, 68 F. (2d)
834, 837. United States 'v.Burns, 69 F. (2d) 636, 638. United
Stataq v. Sumner, 69 F. (2d) 770, 772. United States v. Grien, 69
F. (2d) 921. United States v. Legg, 70 F. (2d) 106. United States
v. Derrick, 70 F. (2d) 162. Huffman v. United States, 70 F. (2d)
266. United States v. Johnson, 70 F. (2d) 399, United States v.
Lancaster, 70 F. (2d) 515. Atkins v. United States, 63 App. D. C.
164; 70 F. (2d) 768. Harris v. United States, 70 F. (2d) 889, 891.

