470

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

*When that limited function had been exercised, it immediately was put to death.
.In these circumstances, the facts speak for themselves
and are susceptible of but one interpretation. The whole
undertaking, though ronducted according to the terms of
subdivision (B), was in fact an elaborate and devious
form of conveyance masquerading as a corporate reorganization, and nothing else. T~ie rule which excludes
from consideration the motive of tax avoidance is not
pertinent to the situation, because the transaction upon
its face lies outside the plain intent of the statute. To
hold otherwise would be to exalt artifice above reality
and to deprive the statutory provision in question of all
serious purpose.
Judgment affirmed.
IN
TAYLOR v. STERNBERG, TRUSTEE
1
BANKRUPTCY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 261.

Argued December 14, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.

1. After the filing of a petition in bankruptcy against a corporation
in the federal district court, a state court is without jurisdiction to
make an order fixing the compensation of a receiver and his attorney theretofore appointed by it. P. 472.
2. In respect of sums thus erroneously awarded to and retained by the
receiver and his attorney, they are not " adverse" claimants, and
the bankruptcy court has authority to compel them to turn over
the same by summary proceeding and order. P. 473.
71 F. (2d) 157, affirmed.
'Together with No. 262, Duty v. Sternberg, Trustee in Bankrurptcy, certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit.

TAYLOR v. STERNBERG.
470
CERTIORARI'

Opinion of the Court.

to review a judgment affirming a judg-

ment of the District Court, sitting in bankruptcy, which
affirmed an order of the referee granting the trustee's
application for a turnover order.
Mr. W. N. Ivie submitted for petitioners.
Mr. Clinton R. Barry for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases, depending upon the same facts, present
the same question. On Ja'nuary 10, 1931, in an insolvency
proceeding, Taylor was appointed -by a state chancery
court in Arkansas receiver of the Parks Dry Goods Company, and Duty as his attorney. On February 11th, a
month later, a petition in bankruptcy against the corporation was filed in the federal district court having
jurisdiction. Two days later, the corporation was adjudicated a bankrupt. On the same day, the chancery court
allowed Taylor compensation as receiver in the sum of
$1500, and Duty compensation as attorney in the sum
of $500. The receiver turned over the estate to the
trustee with the exception of these sums, which petitioners refused to deliver. The trustee applied for a summary order upon petitioners, directing them to turn over
to him the sums thus withheld. The referee granted the
trustee's application, which the district court, sitting in
bankruptcy, affirmed; and this, in turn, was affirmed upon
appeal by the circuit court of appeals. 71 F. (2d) 157.
Upon these facts, the question presented is whether the
bankruptcy court had authority to compel the turn-over
by summary proceeding and order, or whether petitioners
2 See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

23 U.S.

were adverse claimants so that a plenary action, was
required.
Upon adjudication in bankruptcy, all the property of
the bankrupt vests in the trustee as of the date of the
filing of the petition. Upon such filing, the jurisdiction
of the bankruptcy court becomes paramount and exclusive, and thereafter that court's possession and cor trol of
the estate cannot be affected by proceedings in other
courts, whether state or federal. Gross v. Irving TrustCo., 289 U. S. 342, 344; Acme Harvester Co. v. Beekman
Lumber Co., 222 U. S. 300, 307; In re Diamond's Estate,
259 Fed. 70, 73. This applies while the possession is
constructive as well as when it becomes actual. Mueller
v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1, 14; Taubel-Scott-Kitzmiller Co. v.
Fox, 264 U. S. 426, 432-433; Orinoco Iron Co. v. Metzel,
230 Fed. 40, 44-45, and cases. cited.
The status of a receiver is unlike, for example, that of
an assignee for the benefit of creditors. The receiver is
an officer of the court which appoints him. Stuart v.
Boulware, 133 U. S. 78, 81. The property in his hands is
not, in a legal sense, in hi* possession: It is in the possession of the court, whose'appointee he is, by him as its
officer. Thompson v. Phenix Ins. Co., 136 U. S. 287, 297;
Fosdick v. .Schall, 99 U. S. 235, 251. In the present case,
with the supervening bankruptcy, the possession of the
state court came to an end, and that of the bankruptcy
court immediately attached. This result was binding
upon the state court and equally binding upon the receiver as custodian for that court. Before the petition
in. bankruptcy was filed, the receiver's compensation as
well as that of his counsel were matters wholly'within the
control of the state court. Stuart v. Boulware, supra, at
pp. 81-82; High on Receivers, 4th ed., ยง 781. But with the

TAYLOR v. STERNBERG.
470

Opinion of the Court.

filing of the petition in bankruptcy, the power of the state
court in that respect ceased; and its order fixing the compensation of the receiver and his counsel was a nullity because made without jurisdiction, such jurisdiction then
having passed to the bankruptcy court. Gross v. Irving
Trust Co., supra.
Since the order of the state court was the sole foundation for their claims and that was void, petitioners had
no more right to the sums subtracted or to be subtracted
from the estate than they had to the remainder of the
estate. That estate, including such sums, was still in
custodia legis-only the possession had passed automatically from the state court to the bankruptcy court. Thereafter, the estate in its entirety was held by the receiver
as a mere repository for the bankruptcy court and, therefore, not adversely; and petitioners, in respect of that
part of it erroneously awarded as compensation, were in
no sense adverse claimants. Their claims were colorable
only and subject to the summary power of the bankruptcy
court. In re Watts, 190 U. S. 1, 27; In re Diamond's
Estate, supra, at p. 74; Moore v. Scott, 55 F. (2d) 863;
Bank of Andrews v. Gudger, 212 Fed. 49; In re Crosby
Stores, Inc., 61 F. (2d) 812, 814.
Cases dealing with assignments, like Louisville Trust
Co. v. Comingor, 184 U. S. 18, cited by petitioners, in no
way militate against this conclusion. The situation presented in each of those cases substantially differs from
that presented here. See May v. Henderson, 268 U. S. 111,
115-6; In re Louis Neuburger, Inc., 233 Fed. 701, aff'd
240 Fed. 947. Moreover, the status of a receiver and that
of an assignee, as already sufficiently appears, is essentially
different.
Judgment affirmed.

