SHANFEROKE CO. v. WESTCHESTER CO. 449
Counsel for Parties.

SHANFEROKE COAL & SUPPLY CORP. v. WESTCHESTER SERVICE CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 211.

Argued December 7, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.

1. Denial by the District Court of an application for a stay of proceedings in an action on a contract until an arbitration shall be
had in accordance with the terms of the contract, is in effect an
order denying an interlocutory injunction, and is appealable, under
Jud. Code, § 129, to the Circuit Court of Appeals. Endow v.
New York Life Ins. Co., ante, p. 379. P. 451.
2. As bearing on this question of jurisdiction on appeal, it is immaterial whether or not the teritas of the contract sued on would preclude entry in-A federal court of a decree for specific performance
of the arbitration. P. 452.
3. The power of the District Court under § 3 of the U. S. Arbitration Act of February 12, 1925, to grant a stay of an action until
arbitration has been had in accordanc6 with the terms of a written
agreement, is not confined tQ cases in which that court may itself
compel arbitration under § 4.of the same Act, but.extends to cases
in which the arbitration agreement provides for compulsory 'proceedings exclusively in the state courts. P. 452.
70 F. (2d) 297, affirmed.
CERTIORARI *

to review the reversal, on an interlocutory

appeal, of an order of the District Court denying a stay
of proceedings in an action on a contract between citizens
of different States.
Mr. Alfred B. Nathan for petitioner.
Mr. Ernest E. Wheeler, with whom Mr., Ralph Royall
was on the brief, for respondent.
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

293 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was brought by the Shanferoke Coal & Supply Corporation, a citizen of Delaware, in the federal
court for southern New York against the Westchester
Service Corporation, a citizen of the latter State. The
declaration plleged that the defendant had by a contract
in writing agreed to purchase from the plaintiff a large
quantity of coal to be taken in instalments throughout a
period of years; and that the defendant had, after accepting part of the coal, repudiated the contract. The
defendant set up in its answer, as a special defense, that
prior to the commencement of the action a dispute had
arisen concerning the construction of the contract, the
rights and duties of the respective parties thereunder and
its performance; that the contract contained an arbitration clause; and that prior to the commencement of
the action the defendant had notified the plaintiff of its
readiness and willingness to submit the dispute to arbitration and ever since had been ready and willing to do
so; but that the plaintiff had refused to proceed with the
arbitration. The defendant then moved that the action,
and all proceedings therein. be stayed until an arbitration
should be had in accordance with the terms of the contract sued on. The motion was heard on affidavits and
counter affidavits.
The arbitration clause is as follows:
" In case any dispute should arise b(tween the Buyer
and Seller as to the performance of any of the terms of
'this agreement, such dispute shall be arbitrated and the
cost thereof shall be borne equally. by both parties. The
Buyer and the Seller shall each appoint one arbitrator
and the two arbitrators so appointed shall select a third
arbitrator and the decision of a majority of the three
arbitrators shall be final and conclusive on both parties.

SHANFEROKE CO. v. WESTCHESTER CO. 451
449

Opinion of the Court.

In case for any reason any such arbitration shall fail to
proceed to a final .award, either party may apply to the
Supreme Court of the State of New York for an order
compelling the specific performance of this arbitration
agreement in accordance with the arbitration laws of the
State of New York."
The District Court interpreted the clause as making the
arbitration enforceable only in state courts of New York;
and on that ground denied the stay. On an appeal from
the order of denial, the Court of Appeals held that even
if the clause should be so interpreted, § 3 of the United
States Arbitration Act authorized the stay.' It, therefore,
reversed the order and directed the District Court to grant
the stay, with leave to that court " to vacate it at.any
time, should it appear that the defendant is in default in
proceeding with the arbitration." 70 F. (2d) 297. This
Court granted certiorari.
First. The order of the District Court denying the stay
was not a final judgment appealable under § 128 of the
Judicial Code. Being an interlocutory order, it was appealable to the Circuit Court of Appeals under § 129, only
if the denial of the stay should be deemed the denial of an
injunction. Compare General Electric Co. v. Marvel Co.,
287 U. S. 430, 432. That question we must first deter-'
mine although it was not raised below or by counsel here.
See Mansfield, C..& L. M. Ry. Co.v. Swan, 111 U. S.379,
'Act of February 12, 1925, c. 213, § 3, 43 Stat. 883: "If any suit
or proceeding be brought in any of the courts of the United States
upon any issue referable to arbitration under an agreement in writing
for such arbitration, the court in which such suit is pending, upon
being satisfied that the issue in'vulved in such suit or proceeding is
referable. to arbitration under such an agreement, shall on application
of one of the parties stay the trial of the action until such arbitration
has been had in accordance with the terms of the agreement, providing the applicant for the stay is not in default in proceeding with
such arbitration,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

382. For the reasons stated in Enelow v. New York Life
Ins. Co., decided this day, ante, p. 379, an order granting or
denying a stay based on an equitable defense or cross-bill
interposed in an action at law under § 274b, is appealable
under § 129. We are of the opinion that the special defense setting up the arbitration agreement is an equitable
defense or cross-bill within the meaning of § 274b; and
that the motion for a stay is an application for an interlocutory injunction based on the special defense. Compare Red Cross Line v. Atlantic Fruit Co., 264 U. S. 109,
.121. As bearing on this question of jurisdiction on appeal
it is immaterial whether or not the terms of the contract
-iued on would preclude entry in a federal court of a decree
ior specific performance of the arbitration. Since the ap,peal here in question was taken within thirty days from
the entry of the order denying the stay, the Court of
Appeals had jurisdiction under § 129.
Second. The plaintiff contends that the District Court
was without power to grant the stay, because the contract provides that arbitration can be compelled only
by proceedings in a state court of New York. The pro.vision is that "either party may apply to the Supreme
Court of the State of New York for an order compelling
specific performance of this arbitration agreement in accordance with the arbitration law of the State of New
York." The contract does not in terms prohibit proceedings in the federal court. Whether it should be construed so as to exclude the bringing of a suit in the federal
court to compel specific performance of the agreement
to arbitrate, we have no occasion to decide. For the District Court was not asked, in the proceedings now under
review, to compel specific performance. The motion was
to stay the action until arbitration shal have been had;
and the direction of the Court of Appeals was limited to
granting a stay. Section 3 of the United States Arbitra-

SHANFEROKE CO. v. WESTCHESTER CO. 453
449

Opinion of the Court.

tion Act provides broadly that the court may " stay the
trial of the action until such arbitration has been had in
accordance with the terms of the agreement." We thinkthe Court of Appeals was clearly right in concluding that
ther:e is no reason to imply that the power to gfant a stay
is conditioned upon the existence of power, to compel
arbitration in accordance with § 4 of the Act. - Marine
Transit Corp. v. Dreyfus, 284 U. S. 263, 274, is not to the
contrary. There is, on the other hand, strong reason for

construing the clause as permitting the federal court to
order a stay even when it cannot compel the arbitration.

For otherwise, despite congressional approval of arbitration, it would be impossible to secure a stay of an action
in the federal courts when the arbitration agreement provides for compulsory proceedings exclusively in the state
courts; since only in 6xceptional circumstances may a
state court enjoin proceedings begun in a federal court.
See Central Nationul Bank v. Stevens, 169 U. S. 432.
Compare § 265 of the Judicial Code; Kline.v. Burke Construction Co., 260 U. S. 226.
Third. The plaintiff also contends that the defendant
was not entitled to a stay because its answer raised no
arbitrable issues; and because, on the facts developed
by the affidavits, the defendant appears to have waived its
rights under the.arbitration clause by unreasonable delay
'In the lower federal courts there has been some difference of
,opinion as to whether a stay should be granted when the court is
not in a position to compel arbitration. Compare Danielsen v. Entre
Rios Ry. Co., 22 F. (2d) 326, 328, with The Silverbrook, 18 F. (2d)
144. See, too, The Beechwood, 35 F. (2d) 41; The Volsinio, 32 F.
(2d) 357, 358; Ex parte De Simone, 36 F. (2d) 773; The Fredensbro,
18 F. (2d) 983. Interpretations of the English arbitration statutes
are in accord with the view adopted here. See Law v. Garrett, L. R.
S Ch. Div. 26 (C. A.); Austrian Lloyd S. S. Co. v. Gresha~n Life
Assurance Society, f19031 1 K. B. 249; Kirchner & Co. v. Gruban,
[19009] 1 Ch. Div. 413; The Cap Blanco, 11913] Pro. Div. 130.

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
293 U. S.

Syllabus.

in demanding arbitration. The reasons why these contentions are without merit are sufficiently stated in the
opinion of the Court of Appeals.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. BALTIMORE & OHIO

RAILROAD CO.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 221. .Argued December 12, 13, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.
1. Adoption of a rule requiring rail carriers to substitute powerbperated for band-operated reversing gear, if the latter is found to
render the engine unsafe or to subject employees or others to " unnecessary peril of life or limb," is within the scope of the authority vested in the Interstate Commerce Commission by the amended
Boiler Inspection Act. P. 458.
2.. The Boiler Inspection Act, as amended, imposed upon the Interstate Commerce Commission responsibility for adequate safety
rules, and to that end it granted to the Commission the power not
only of disapproving rules proposed by the carriers but also of
requiring modifications of rules in force. P. 459.
3. 'This power may properly be exercised on complaint of Brotherhoods representing employees. P. 461.
4. The Act confers authority on the Commission to prescribe by rule
specific devices, or changes in equipment, only where these are
required in order to remove " unnecessary peril to life or limb ";
gnd a finding by the Commission to that effect is essential to the
existence of the authority. P. 462.
5. To support an order of the Commission amending the rules under
the Boiler Inspection Act so as to require substitution of poweroperated for hand-operated reversing gear in steam locomotives, it
must appear, and not merely by inference, that the Commission
found that the use of the hand gear, as compared with the use of
the power gear, causes unnecessary peril to life or limb. In the
absence of such a finding, the order is void. P. 463.
5 F. Supp. 929, affirmed.

