MITCHELL v. MAURER.
237

Syllabus.

the property hereby mortgaged in accordance with Sections 720 to 732 inclusive of Chapter 123 of the laws of
Maryland passed at the January session 1898 or any
amendments or additions thereto." Prior to the mortgage there had been no such amendment or addition, and
it cannot, we think, be correctly said that " the intention
of the parties in employing that language embraced only
such amendments or additions as had been made prior to
the execution of the mortgage." On the contrary, the
words employed seem to us sufficient to embrace the
amendments and 4dditions thereafter made by Chapter
56. A contrary holding would deprive the words employed of their customary meaning. And we find nothing
which requires us to accept any other meaning.
It follows that the challenged Act cannot properly be
said to impair the obligation of the agreement between
the parties within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
The judgment under review must be reversed and the
cause remanded to the Court of Appeals for further action
not in conflict with this opinion.
Reversed.
MITCHELL, INSURANCE COMMISSIONER
CALIFORNIA, v. MAURER ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

OF

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 54.

Argued November 7, 8, 1934.-Decided December 3, 1934.

1. Where receivers of a corporation, appointed by a state court, file
a suit against it in the federal court in another State in which they
seek an ancillary receivership and are the only actors, there is no
federal jurisdiction on the ground of diversity of citizenship if one
of them and the corporation are citizens of the same State; and in
this regard it is immaterial that the bill in its' caption names as

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

sole plaintiff the plaintiff in the original suit, and that diversity of
citizenship existed between him and the corporation. P. 242.
2. A suit by primary receivers, appointed by a state court, for an
ancillary receivership in a federal court, is an original, independent
bill, which can not be entertained by the federal court in the absence of diversity of citizenship or other independent ground of
federal jurisdiction. P. 243.
3. Lack of federal jurisdiction can not be waived or overcome by
agreement of the parties. P. 244.
69 F. (2d) 233, reversed.

CERTIORARI

*

to review an interlocutory decree sustain-

ing an order appointing ancillary receivers.
Mr. Frank L. Guerena for petitioner.
Messrs. Edward D. Lyman and P. B. Plumb submitted
for respondents.
MR.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
International Re-Insurance Corporation is organized
under the laws of Delaware. It had a place of business
and real and personal property in California. On April
19, 1933, the Court of Chancery of Delaware appointed
Arthur G. Logan of that State, Carl M. Hansen of Pennsylvania, and George deB. Keim of New Jersey, primary
receivers of all its property. The statutes of Delaware
purport to vest in receivers so appointed title, as quasiassignees, to all property, wherever located, except real
estate not situated within the State. R. S. Del. ยง 3884.
The order appointing the primary receivers authorized
them to apply in other jurisdictions for the appointment
of ancillary receivers. On the day of their appointment,
they filed, in the federal court for southern California,
a petition, or bill, praying that ancillary receivers be ap*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

MITCHELL v. MAURER.
237

Opinion -of the Court,.

pointed of property there located.
The prayer was
granted ex parte. W. H. Comstock of California and
deB. Keim were appointed ancillary receivers. And an
order issued enjoining all persons from interfering with
their possession and control.
On the same clay, E. Forrest Mitchell, the Insurance
Commissioner of California, filed, in the Superior Court
of that State, a petition praying that he be placed in the
possession of the property and business of the Corporation. That court entered immediately an order temporarily enjoining the Corporation from disposing of its
property in California; and ordered the Insurance Commissioner to take possession thereof. Its license to transact the business of workmen's compensation insurance in
California had been revoked by the Commissioner prior
to the appointment of the primary receivers.
Service was promptly made of the orders issued by the
two courts. A dispute arose as to the exact times, of
the filing of the several proceedings; of the entry of the
orders; of the service thereof; and of taking possession.
To resolve the controversy, the Insurance Commissioner
filed in the federal court, on May 2, 1933, a motion to
vacate its order appointing the ancillary receivers; to dissolve the restraining order; and to dismiss the petition
of the primary receivers. The motion alleged that, before
the federal court assumed to act, the California court had
acquired jurisdiction and the Insurance Commissioner
had actually taken possession of the Corporation's property. It charged, among other things, that the petition
of the primary receivers on which the appointment of
the ancillary receivers had been made, did not state facts
sufficient to give the court jurisdiction of the subject
matter or of the parties; and that both the order of appointment and the restraining order were, therefore, invalid.

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 11. S.

At the hearing of the motion, it was admitted that " the
situation presented is within the California statute providing for proceedings against delinquent insurance companies"; that the California assets of the Corporation
" were in the possession of the Insurance Commissioner
at the time of the appointment and qualification of the
receivers appointed by the district court "; and that the
proceeding brought by the primary receivers had been
filed a few minutes before the Insurance Commissioner
made his application to the state court. On these facts,
the District Court held, that since the proceediiig brought
by the primary receivers was " first filed in this court,
jurisdiction of the res is in the district court." Upon
a rehearing had on additional affidavits, the court reaffirmed its denial of the motion to vacate the 'order
appointing the ancillary receivers.
From this judgment, the Insurance Commissioner appealed to the Court of Appeals. There he contended
that the original proceeding, in which the primary receivers petitioned for the appointment of ancillary receivers, was not a bill of complaint and was insufficient
to confer jurisdiction upon the District Court; cf. McCandless v. Furlaud, 68 F. (2d) 925; 1 that the subsequent amendments, purporting to state a cause of action
against the Corporation, were inoperative to sustain the
jurisdiction of the federal court because they were not
filed until after the state court had acquired possession
of the property; and that the bill, even as amended, did
not state a cause of action in which a valid order appointing ancillary receivers could be made.
The Court of Appeals, in an elaborate opinion, affirmed
the judgment of the District Court, 69 F. (2d) 233. It
did not pass upon the Commissioner's contention that the
1 For

disposition of the case by this Court, see ante, p. 67.

MITCHELL v. MAURER.
237

Opinion of the Court.

ancillary appointment could not be made upon the bill
as it was originally filed, because it held that the subsequent amendments related back to the commencement
of the proceedings. It overruled his objection that the
bill failed to allege that the Corporation was insolvent or
that the complainant in the primary suit was a judgment
creditor, on the ground that any such defects were cured
by the amendments or waived by the Corporation's answer. It held that the rule of Booth v. Clark, 17 How.
322, did not prevent the appointment of ancillary receivers, because here the primary receivers did not ask that
they themselves be appointed ancillary receivers, and did
ask specifically that the " rights of creditors in the foreign
jurisdiction be safeguarded." It concluded that the state
and federal courts had concurrent jurisdiction of the subject matter; and that the federal court was entitled to
exercise its jurisdiction, because of the prior filing in it of
the proceedings for the appointment of ancillary receivers.
Although the Court of Appeals discussed, also, questions of federal jurisdiction and venue, it did not refer
specifically to the fact that a lack of diversity of citizenship appeared affirmatively, on the amended pleadings,
one of the primary receivers as well as the Corporation
being a citizen of Delaware. Nor was this fact relied
upon by the Insurance Commissioner in his petition for
certiorari or in oral argument here. He prayed for the
writ solely on the ground that the Court of Appeals should
have decided that " the original bill filed in the District
Court was insufficient to state a cause of action or to confer jurisdiction "; and that the amendments thereto filed
after the commencement of the suit in the state court
could not operate to cure the defects of the original bill.
But, as the lack of diversity of citizenship appears upon
examination of the record, we have no occasion to pass
upon the contentions made. The order appointing the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

ancillary receivers must be set aside because the District
Court lacked federal jurisdiction of the cause.
First. If the jurisdiction of the District Court must
rest on diversity of citizenship, it fails because one of the
plaintiffs is a citizen of the same state as the defendant.
Hooe v. Jamieson, 166 U. S. 395. The proceeding in the
District Court was entitled " Bertha E. Maurer v. International Re-insurance Corporation "; and that title has
been used in all later proceedings in that court, in the
Court of Appeals and in this Court. If Bertha E. Maurer
had actually been the plaintiff, there would have been
diversity of citizenship; for she is a citizen of New Jersey.
But, in fact, Bertha E. Maurer was not a party to the
application for the appointment of the ancillary receivers;
was not later made a party to the suit; and has not appeared at any stage of the proceedings. Her name was
used, doubtless, because she was the plaintiff in the suit
against the Corporation brought in the Court of Chancery
of Delaware in which the primary receivers were appointed.' The application in the case at bar for the appointment of ancillary receivers was made by, and in the
name of, the primary receivers. They sue as quasiassignees claiming to be entitled to the possession of the
balance of the California property after its administration
by the District Court of California. In the original application filed April 19, 1933 they called themselves petitioners. In the amendments filed six days later, the
application is called a " bill of complaint." It is so designated in the answer of the Corporation, filed at the same
time. We necessarily treat the primary receivers as the
plaintiffs.
'Similarly, in McCandless v. Furlaud,ante, p. 67, the petition for
the appointment of ancillary receivers filed by the primary receivers

in the federal court for southern New York, bore the title of the suit
in the federal court for western Pennsylvania which appointed them.

MITCHELL v. MAURER.
237

Opinion of the Court.

Second. Apparently this lack of diversity jurisdiction
was regarded as immaterial by the Court of Appeals, on
the ground that the suit was an ancillary one. For the
opinion states: " Finally it has been held that an ancillary
suit in a Federal court does not depend on diverse citizenship." This position is adopted in the brief of the
primary receivers, but the contention is unsound. Where
the jurisdiction of a federal district court is based upon
diversity of citizenship, proceedings therein in intervention being ancillary, the jurisdiction rests upon that of the
main cause. Cincinnati, I. & W. R. Co. v. Indianapolis
Union Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 107. The same rule is applicable
to sustain jurisdiction of independent suits which are
ancillary to an original suit in the same court. White v.
Ewing, 159 U. S. 36. Whether the rule may ever be
applied to a suit brought in a federal court of another district; and whether a suit for the appointment of ancillary
receivers in another federal district is an ancillary suit
within the meaning of the rule does not appear to have
been decided by this Court.' We need not decide either
question now. For the rule can have no application
where primary receivers appointed by a state court bring
a suit for the appointment of ancillary receivers in the
federal court for another State. Obviously such an application is not ancillary to any proceedings in any federal court. It is an independent original bill. Being
such, it cannot be sustained when diversity of citizenship
3 In Raphael v. Trask, 194 U. S. 272, 278, -it is intimated that the
jurisdiction of a federal court cannot be based upon an original suit in

another federal court. Some of the lower courts have so held.
Winter v. Swinburne, 8 Fed. 49, where the subject was fully discussed.
Compare United States v. Pedarre, 262 Fed. 839; Sullivan v. Swain,
96 Fed. 259. But see Bluefields S. S. Co. v. Steele, 184 Fed. 584, 587.
Compare Trustees System Co. v. Payne, 65 F. (2d) 103, and Walker
v. United States Light & Heating Co., 220 Fed. 393, which concern
requisites of equity, rather than federal, jurisdiction.

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

does not exist and no other ground of federal jurisdiction
is shown.
Third. Unlike an objection to venue, lack of federal
jurisdiction cannot be waived or be overcome by an agreement of the parties. An appellate federal court must satisfy itself not only of its own jurisdiction, but also of that
of the lower courts in a cause under review.' Mansfield, C.
& L. M. Ry. Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 382. Hence,
the failure of the Insurance Commissioner to claim, in
his petition for certiorari, that the order of the District
Court was void for lack of federal jurisdiction of the suit,
and his failure otherwise to call to the attention of this
Court the lack of diversity of citizenship are immaterial.
The Court of Appeals pointed out [p. 238] that under
Judicial Code ยง 274 (c), where " jurisdiction of the district
court is based upon the diverse citizenship of the parties,
and such diverse citizenship in fact existed at the time the
suit was brought . . . though defectively alleged, either

party may amend at., any stage of the proceedings and in
the appellate court upon such terms as the court may.
impose." But, in the case at bar, the admitted facts preclude such an amendment. Diversity of citizenship confessedly did not exist.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
to the District Court with directions to dismiss the bill
for want of federal jurisdiction.
Reversed.
The order appointing ancillary receivers attacked in McCandless
v. Furlaud, ante, p. 67, on the ground that the court was without
federal jurisdiction, had been entered, not in the suit there under
review, but in a separate proceeding in the same court.
4

