388

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
293 U. S.

Syllabus.

What we have said in Enelow v. New York Life Ins. Co.,
decided this day, ante, p. 379, is directly applicable here.
The issue of fraud raised by respondent's affidavit of defense was fully available in the action at law and the court
erred in directing the trial of that issue in equity.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded to the District Court with. direction to vacate its decree and to proceed with the trial
of the action at law.
Reversed.
PANAMA REFINING CO.

ET AL.

AMAZON PETROLEUM CORP.

v. RYAN

ET AL. V.

ET AL.

RYAN ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 135 and 260.

Argued December 10, 11, 1934.-Decided
January 7, 1935.

1. Upon review of a decree affirming the validity of an executive
regulation, and refusing to enjoin its enforcement, rendered in a
suit begun and ended below after the regulation had been withdrawn, the question of validity does not cease to he moot because
the regulation has since been reinstated and the Government has
declared its intention to enforce it from the time of reinstatement.
P. 412.
2. A suit to enjoin the enforcement of executive regulations is not
made moot by amendments of the regulations, adopted pending
the litigation, which continue in force the requirements complained
of and present the same constitutional question as before. P. 413.
3. Section 9 (c) of the National Industrial Recovery Act, purporting
to authorize the President to prohibit the transporLation in interstate and foreign commerce of petroieum and the products thereof
produced or withdrawn from storage in excess of the amounts permitted by state authority, attaches criminal penalties to every
violation of such an order; and persons who would thus become
subject to repeated penalties in carrying on their business are en-

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYA,7
388

Syllabus.

titled to invoke the equitable jurisdiction to restrain enforcement
of the order it found unconstitutional. P. 414.
4 Assuming (not deciding) that Congress itself might have the
power sought to be delegated to the President by § 9 1 ) "ift1'
National Industrial Recovery Act-viz., the power to irteric+ tbtransportation in interstate and foreign commerce of petroleum
and )etroleum products produced or withdrawn from storage in
excess of the amounts permitted by state authority-, the attempted
delegation is plainly void, because the power sought to be delegated is legislative power, yet nowhere in the statute has Copgress declared or indicated any policy or standard to guide or limit
the President when acting under such delegation. Pp 414 et seq.
The declarations of § 1 of Title I of this Act are simply an introduction in broad outline, leaving the legislative policy as to particular subjects to be declared and defined, if at all, by subsequent
sections. The Court can find nothing in § 1 or elsewhere in the
Act which limits or controls the authority sought to be conferred
by § 9 (r). The effort by ingenious and diligent construction t'?
supply a criterion still permits such a breadth of authorized acier
as essentially to commit to the President the functions of a legislature rather than those of an executive or administrative officer
executing a declared legislative policy.
5. The question whether the delegation is permitted by the Constitution is not answered by the argument that it should be assumed
th-it the President has acted, or will act, for what he believes to be
th- public good. The point is not one of motives but of constituticnal authority, for which the best of motives is not a substitute
P. 420.
S. If Congress can vest such legislative power in the President, it
may vest it in any board or officer of its choice; and the power
vested may concern not merely the transportation of oil or of oil
produced in excess of what the States may allow; it may extend
to transportation in interstate ccgmmerce of any commodity, with
or without reference to state rPquirements; indeed. th-r- ,voul'
appear tc ',e no ground for denying a zimnilar prerogative Qf delegation with re pPct to other subjects of legislation. P 420
7. The principle forbidding Congress to ibdicate, or to transfer to..
others, the essential legislative functions with which it is vested by
Art. I, § 1, :ind Art. I, § 8, par. 18, of the Constitution, has been
recognized by the Court in every case in which the question has
boen raised. P, 421.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Statement of the Case.

293 U. S.

8. Congress may lay down its policies and establish its standards and
leave to selected instrumentalities the making of subordinate rules,
within prescribed limits, and the determination of facts to which
the policy, as declared by Congress, shall apply; but the constant
recognition of the necessity and validity of such provisions, and the
wide range of administrative authority which has been developed
by means of them, cannot be allowed to obscure the limitations of
the authority to delegate, if our constitutional system is to be maintained. P. 421.
9. The question is not as to the intrinsic importance of the particular
statute involved, but of the constitutional processes of legislation
which are an essential part of our system of Government. P. 430.
10. Both § 9 (c) and the Executive Order made in pursuance of it
are in notable contrast with historic practice (as shown by many
statutes and proclamations) by which declarations of policy are
made by the Congress, and delegations are within the framework
of that policy and haye relation to facts and conditions to be
found and stated by the President in the appropriate exercise of
the delegated authority. P. 431.
11. If from the extremely broad description contained in § 1 of the
Act, and the widely different matters to which the section refers,
it were possible to derive a statement of prerequisites to the President's action under § 9 (c), it would still be necessary for the
President to comply with those conditions and to show such compliance as the ground-of his prohibition. P. 431.
12. If the citizen is to be punished for the crime of violating a legislative order of an executive officer, board or commission, due
.process of law requires that it shall appear that the order is within
the authority of the officer, board or commission; and, if that authority depends on determinations of fact, those determinations
must be shown. P. 432.
13. When the President is invested with legislative authority as the
delegate of Congress in carrying out a declared pQlicy, he necessarily acts under the constitutional restriction applicable to such a
delegation. P. 433.
71 F. (2d) 1, 8, reversed.

CEwrioPoARI' was granted in these two cases to review
decrees of the court below which reversed decrees of the
District Court enjoining federal officers in Texas from
*See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

Argument for Petitioners.

enforcing certainexecutive orders and regulations. 5 F.
Supp. 639. Both bills challenged the constitutionality
of § 9 (c) of the National Industrial Recovery Act and of
orders made under it by the President and of regulations
made under the President's orders by the Secretary of the
Interior. In one of the cases, No. 260, part of a Petroleum Code was attacked and defended in ignorance of the
fact that it had been dropped when amendments of the
Code were promulgated before the beginning of the suit.
The bill in that case also challenged legislation and orders
of the State curtailing the production of oil, and joined
the State Railroad Commission, its members and other
state officials as defendants; but this part of the case was
severed and decided adversely to the plaintiffs by a threejudge court. See 5 F. Supp. 633, 634, 639. A detailed
statement of both cases will be found in the opinion.
Messrs. James N. Saye and F. W. Fischer, with whom
Mr. W. Edward Lee was on the brief, for petitioners in
No. 260.
The bill states one cause of action against all of the
defendants, both State and Federal officers. The threejudge court had jurisdiction of all the issues and should
have decided them. Louisville & N. Ry. Co. v. Garnett,
231 U. S. 298.
Petitioners are not engaged in interstate commerce, and
their activities do not affect interstate commerce, except
incidentally and remotely; their business is, therefore, not
subject to regulation by the Federal Government.
United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S.
407; Oliver Iron Mining Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Hope Natural Gas Co. v.
Hall, 274 U. S. 284; Foster-FountainPacking Co. v. Haydel, 278 U. S. 1; Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286
U. S. 165; Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251; Kidd v.
Pearson,128 U. S. 1; Mobile County v. Kimball, 102 U. S.
692; Bailey v. Drexel Furniture Co., 259 U. S. 20; Em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioners.

293 U. S.

ployerd' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463; Hill v. Wallace,
259 U. S. 44; Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S.
245; United Leather Workers v. Herkert, 265 U. S. 457.
It has been specifically held that the production of. oil
is not interstate commerce, and that restriction of production, even though it indirectly diminish the amount
of oil entering the channels of interstate commerce, is not
such a direct interference with the free flow of interstate
commerce as to be a violation of the commerce clause.
Champlin Re-fining Co. v. Corporation Comm'n, 286
U. S. 210.

It was never the intention of the framers of the Constitution that Congress should regulate the internal affairs
of all businesses the products of which in- the process of
passing from producer or manufacturer .to consumer, pass
through the channels of interstate commerce. Such a
distorted and unreasonabe construction of the commerce
clause would result in the destruction of our present dual
form of Government.
Shreveport Rate Case, 234 U. S. 342; Stockyards Cases,
258 U. S. 495; and the Grain FuturesAct Case, 262 U. S.
1, distinguished.
The National Industrial Recovery Act, and particularly
§ 9 (c), is void as an attempted delegation of legislative
power to the President. Cooley, Const. Lim., 7th ed.,
163; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; Buttfield v. Stranahan,
192 U. S. 470; Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204
U. S. 364; St. Louis & I. M. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S.
281; Mutual Film Corp. v. Industrial Comm'n, 236 U. S.
230.
It will be noted that the entire enacting part of the
Act, if it has an enacting clause, is contained in its first
section. It is also interesting to note that the policies
declared by Congress were nothing more than a reiteration of what has been the policy of the United States
Government since it was founded. In brief, Congress has

PANAMA REFINING 00. v. RYAN.
388

Argument for Petitioners.

stated that it is its policy to do whatever can be done to
relieve the existing depression, and, since it does not
know what to do, it attempts, by § 3 of the Act, to give
each industry power and authority to formulate and
adopt, subject to the approval of the President, such laws
as in the opinion of a majority of the various industries
are best calculated to accomplish that objective.
We do not believe it can be said that merely because
acts of Congress become enforceable when approved by
the President, acts of the various industries of the country, acting instead of Congress, can become laws when
approved by the President.
There could be no clearer delegation of legislative power
than § 9 (c).
The chief and possibly the entire purpose of the commerce clause was, so far as interstate commerce was concerned, to empower the federal authorities to prevent the
States from interfering with the freedom of commercial
intercourse between themselves or with foreign nations.
Willoughby, The Constitution, vol. 2, 2d ed., p. 721,
§ 415.
It should be borne in mind that the right of intercourse
between the States is a natural and inherent right. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1.
The facilities of interstate commerce may not be refused by Congress to commodities not dangerous to transport and of such a character that their use or consumption
will do no injury, moral or physical, to anyone, simply
upon the ground that they have been produced or manufactured in ways or under conditions objectionable to
Congress. Willoughby, The Constitution, vol. 2, 2d ed.,
p. 994, § 592; Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S.251. Distinguishing United States v. Hill, 248 U. S.420; Champion v. Ames, 188 U. S.321; Hipolite Egg Co. v. United
States, 220 U. S.45; McDermott v. Wisconsin, 228 U. S.
115; Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308; Caminetti v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioners.

293 U. S

United States, 246 U. S. 470; Rupert v. United States, 181
Fed. 87; Brooks v. United States, 267 U. S. 432; Capital
City Dairy Co. v. Ohio, 183 U. S. 238.
Oil produced in excess of the amount fixed by the state
law remains the property of the producer. If the producer has violated a valid law of the State, he is subject
to the penalties of the law. Prohibiting shipment of the
oil in interstate commerce is merely denying the use of
the instrumentalities of commerce -to transport a recognized commodity of commerce, the title to which is undisputed. There is no evidence in the record that it
would unduly burden interstate commerce; and we all
know that the transporting companies are in dire need
of business and the revenue derived therefr'om. Therefore, it is quite obvious that an Act of Congress prohibiting the transportation of such oil -in interstate commerce
is an attempt on the part of Congress to aid the State in
the enforcement of its conservation laws, and thus regulate the production of petroleum-a local matter over
which the National Government has no jurisdiction.
The National Industrial Recovery Act is void because
it is an attempt by the National Government to usurp
powers reserved to the States and the people by the Tenth
Amendment.
The national emergency, brought about by the financial depression, did not bestow upon Congress the power
to enact the National Industrial Recovery Act. Emergencies create no power. In emergencies, in panics, in
times of peril, when people stampede, when sober judgment is submerged, when expediency seeks to triumph
over righteousness and correct principles, then is when
we need the safeguards of our Constitution. Ex parts
Milligan, 4 Wall. 2; Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332; Home
Bldg. & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398; Nebbia v.
New York, 291 U. S. 502.

PANAMA REFINING 00. v. RYAN.
388

Argument for Petitioners.

Article I, § 8, of the Constitution, which empowers the
Congress to declare war. to raise and support armies, to
provide and maintain a navy, and to make laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying into effect the
foregoing powers, does not authorize the Congress to require petitioners to keep their oil under ground until such
time as the National Government may need it in offensive or defensive warfare. without paying petitioners just
compensation for it.
Section 4 of Article III of the Code of Fair Competition for the Petroleum Industry is void.
Regulations IV and VII of the Secretary of the Interior are null and void.
Mr. F. S. Fischer for petitioner in No. 135.
Title I of the Act must be rejected in its entirety because the provisions relating to interstate and foreign
commerce are so interrelated with and dependent upon
those provisions regulating intrastate commerce that they
cannot be separated therefrom. Employers' Liability
Cases, 207 U. S. 490; Pollock v. Farmers Loan & Trust
Co., 158 U. S. 636; United Leather Workers v. Herkert,
265 U. S. 457; Field v. BarberAsphalt Co., 194 U. S. 618.
Section 9 (c) is unconstitutional. Congress is without power to forbid the transportation of ordinary and
harmless commodities in interstate commerce; or to enact
an interstate and foreign commerce regulation dependent
on the action of the several States. Distinguishing:
Champion v. Ames, 188 U. S. 321; Hipotite Egg Co. v.
United States, 220 U. S. 45; Caminetti v. United States,
242 U. S. 470; Brooks v. United States, 267 U. S. 432;
Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242
U.S. 311; and relying on: Knickerbocker Ice Co. v.
Stewart, 253 TT. S. 156; PanamaRefining Co. v. Ryan, 5
F. Supp. 639; Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251; Vance
v. Vandercook, 170 U. S. 442; Kiddv. Pearson,128 U. S. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioners.

293 U. S.

Section 9 (c) is also unconstitutional because Congress has laid down no rule or criterion to guide or limit
the President in the orders that he may promulgate under
it. It leaves him or his nominees free to promulgate and
eitforce any order that they may think necessary, and
without any requirement of uniformity or applicability
throughout the Union. The President, or his nominees,
may subject any violator to criminal procedure. Thus
the Act delegates to the President not only the power to
regulate interstate and foreign commerce at his discretior, but it also delegates to him and his nominees the
power to create and define offenses against the United
States. In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545; Field v. Clark, 143
U. S. 649; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S: 470; Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224
U. S. 194; Butte City Water Co. v. Baker, 196 U. S. 119;
Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. r56; Donnelly
v. United States, 276 U. S. 512; Interstate Commerce
Comm'n v. Brimson, 155 U. S. 4; United States v. Maid,
116 Fed. 650; United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506;
United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 88.
Section 9 (c) is too indefinite and uncertain as a penal
statute. United States v. 11,150 Pounds of Butter, 195
Fed. 663; Todd v. United States, 158 U. S. 282.
Regulations IV, V, and VII are invalid and unenforceable. United States v. 11,150 Pounds of Butter, supra.
The production of oil and the refining of the same is not
commerce, and the purchase, transportation, and storage
of oil is not interstate commerce until the same is tendered
to a carrier for interstate transportation. Champlin Refining Co. v. CorporationComm'n, 286 U. S. 210; Hammer
v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251. Therefore, the regulations
under consideration have no relation to the Act of Congress, unless it may be said that by compliance with the
regulations the agents of the Department of the Interior

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

Argument for Petitioners.

charged with the enforcement of the Act could better enforce it. But we have not yet reached that stage of Government where citizens can be compelled by regulations
to assist the officers of the Government in detecting crime.
It will be seen that these regulations apply to and
affect only the East Texas and Oklahoma City oil fields.
If they have any support, it must be in the commerce
clause, but the rules must be equal and apply uniformly
throughout the Union. Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1;
Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, supra; Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan, supra.
The purpose of the attacked regulations in requiring reports and examining books and records, and making inspections of the physical properties, is to obtain evidence
against those who might transport the forbidden articles
in interstate and foreign commerce. They are therefore
repugnant to the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. Boyd
v. United States, 116 U. S. 616; Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S.547.
There is no power in the Federal Government, over and
above the powers delegated to it in the Constitution, to
regulate the production of articles that are of general use
throughout the Nation. Kansas v. Colorado,206 U. S. 89.
Does an emergency, such as Congress in the preamble
of this Act declared to exist, create such power in the
Federal Government that Congress and the President may
set aside the limitations of the Constitution by which they
were intended to be restrained, and thereby dictate to the
citizens of a State how much petroleum they can produce
during any period, and the minimum wage that they
shall pay their employees while producing it, and subject
such citizens to criminal prosecutions for the violation of
any order made by the President in pursuance of such
purpose? It has been repeatedly held by this Court that
an emergency does not create power and that even dur-

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondents.

293 U. S.

ing a state of war neither Congress nor the President can
exceed the limitations placed upon then by the Constitution, nor deprive a citizen of those rights guaranteed to
him by it. Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2, 100; United
States v. Lee, 10i U. S 196; United States v. Cohen Grocery Co.. 255 U S. 86; Home Bldg k Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U S. 398.
"To what purposes are powers Junited, and to what
purpose is that limitation co,mitted to writing, if these
limits may, at any time, be passed by Lhose intended to be
restrained?" Marbury v. Madison I Cranch 137, 176.
"The instrument was not intended to provide merely
for the exigencies of a few years, but was to endure for
a long lapse of ages, the events of which w&re locked up
in the inscrutable purposes of Providence." Martin v.
Hunter, 1 Wheat. 305, 326.
Assistant Attorney General Stewaens and Mr. L. T.
Martineau, Jr., with whom Solicitor General Biggs and
Messrs. Carl McFarland, M. S. Huberman, Charles H.
Weston, A. H. Feller, Nathan R. Margold, and Charles
Fahy were on the brief,, for respondents.
The commerce clause vests Congress with plenary
power to regulate commerce among the several States and
with foreign nations, and this means power to enact all
appropriate legislation for the protection and advancement of that commerce. Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, 570. The regulation may
extend to any and all kinds of activity which substantially
burden or affect such commerce (Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.
352; Houston, E. & W. T. Ry. Co. v. 'United States, 234
U. S. 342; Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; Chicago
Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1) even though such
activity is in itself not commerce at all (United States
v. Ferger, 250 U. S. 199; Coronado.Coal Co. v. United

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

Argument for Respondents.

Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295). Moreover, it is immaterial whether the activity has occurred wholly within a
State before movement in interstate commerce has commenced. Local 167 v. United States, 291 U. S. 293;
United States v. Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324; DahnkeWalker Co. v. Bundurant, 257 U. S. 282; Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50; Coronado Coal Co. v. United
Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295.
The transacti6ns -thus subject to regulation by Congress
may often include matters which may also be regulated
by the States within their police power or taxed locally.
In such cases, if the state regulation does not burden interstate commerce or in any way conflict with the federal
law, both federal and state fegulations may be in force
at the same cime. Cf. Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504,
and Dickson v. Uhlmann Gram Co., 288 U. S. 188, with
Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, supra; Minnesota v.
Blasius, 290 U. S. 1. vith Stafford v. Wallace, supra;
Oliver Iron Mining Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172, with Coronado Coal Co. v. United Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295.
If conflict should arise, however, or if Congress has manifested any intention completely to occupy the field, state
law must yield. to the paramount federal power. Minnesota Rate Cases, supra; Houston, E. & W. T. Ry. Co. v.
United States, supra; Florida v. United States, 292 U. S.
1; Adams Express Co. v. Croninger,226 U. S.491. "The
rule which marks the point at which state taxation or
regulation becomes permissible " does not necessarily prevent "interference by Congress in cases where such interference is deemed necessary for the protection of commerce among the States." Swift & Co. v. United States,
supra, p. 400; Stafford v. Wallace, supra, p. 525.
Such cases as Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; Heisler v.
Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245; Oliver Iron Mining
Co. v. Lord, supra; Hope Natural Gas Co. v. Hall, 274
U. S. 284; Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondents.

293 U. S.

165; and Chassaniol v. Greenwood, 291 U. S. 584, which

define the permissible limits of action by the States, are,
therefore, not applicable.
Thus the power of the States to restrict the production
of oil (Champlin Refining Co. v. Corporation Comm'n,
286 U.S. 210) does not preclude the exercise of federal
power over the same subject matter if the conditions surrounding the production of oil afford a reasonable basis
for the view that federal control of petroleum production
is necessary for the regulation of interstate commerce in
petroleum and its products.
The production-control provisions of the Petroleum.
Code seek to stabilize the interstate market in petroleum
and its products through limitation of the production of
petroleum to the national consumer demand. States- are
to apportion the share of the national demand assigned to
them among the individual wells and properties within
the State. Production in excess of quotas assigned by a
State is made a violation of the Code.
This case squarely presents the issue as to whether the
Federal Government may, under the commerce clause,
regulate the amount of oil produced throughout the Nation. The determination of this issue depends essentially
upon questions of economic fact involving a consideration
of the structure of the petroleum industry, the conditions
governing the production of oil, and the effect of such
conditions upon interstate commerce in petroleum and its
products.
We are to consider the national scope and importance
of the industry; interstate commerce and competition between producing areas; dependence upon oil of agencies
of commerce; movement of petroleum in interstate commerce-the pipe-line system; movements from East
Texas; intermingling of crude oil in inter- and intrastate
commerce; intermingling of petroleum products in interand intrastate commerce; interstate competition in petro-

PANAMA REFINING 00. v. RYAN.
388

Argument for Respondents.

leum products; corporate integration of the industry; and
sensitivity of market structure.
A combination of singular geological, legal, and economic factors governing the production of crude oil in
this country has compelled excessive production. Producers in the " stripper" or pumping well areas were
drastically affected by the collapse of the price structure
resulting from the excessive production of the flush fields.
Prices in the "stripper" well areas were driven far below
the cost of producing oil from such wells, causing many
of them to be abandoned, with the permanent loss of oil
reserves. Cheap oil from the flush fields deprived many
"stripper" well areas of their normal' interstate and foreign markets and threatened to monopolize the entire
market of most of the " stripper" well areas in the country. The " stripper" fields contain a large proportion of
the total oil reserves of the nation; the shutting down of
these fields would involve a serious loss of oil reserves.
The fruitless efforts of the industry and of the States
to control the competitive conditions attending the production of oil demonstrate the interstate unity of the oil
industry and the need for federal control.
Unrestricted production from the flush fields has had
a direct and substantial effect upon interstate commerce
in petroleum and its products: (1) It has caused violent
fluctuations throughout the country in the price of crude
oil and its products, and (2) it has absorbed part of the
market of the " stripper " well fields, thus diverting the
normal flow of oil from the" stripper" areas. Such direct
and substantial effects upon interstate commerce afford
sufficient basis for the federal control of oil production
embodied in the Petroleum Code.
This Court has held that local activity which directly
affects the price of commodities moving in interstate commerce may be regulated by Congress. Chicago Board of
Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1; United States v. Patten, 226

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondents.

293 U. S.

U. S. 525. See StandardOil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.
163, 169: Local acts, such as production or manufacture,
which occur before interstate commerce has commenced,
are nevertheless subject to the federal commerce power
when they directly affect interstate commerce. Corowado
Coal Co. v. United Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295; Standard
Oil Co. v. United States, supra, p. 169. Decisions of this
Court have sustained regulations of local acts which affected interstate commerce much less directly than does
the volume of oil produced in the flush fields. Stafford v.
Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; Colorado v. United States, 271
U. S. 153; Florida v. United States, 292 U. S. 1; United
States v. Ferger, 250 U. S. 199; Coronaoo Coal Co. v.
United Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295. See Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S.197, 337.
The Federal Government may properly seek to protect
the economic welfare of an industry which is predominantly interstate. Where, as in the case of the oil industry, regulation of the purely interstate aspects of the
business cannot be accomplished without control of local
acts, such as production, regulation of such local acts
is within the federal commerce power. Minnesota Rate
Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Houston, E. & W. T. Ry. Co. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 342. This Court has recognized
that the practical course of interstate business has expanded with the growth of the country. Stafford v. Wallace, supra, pp. 518-519. With the development of industries organized on a national scale and the extraordinary increase in the' facilities of transportation, regulation of many intrastate aspects of such industries may be
necessary for the protection of interstate commerce.
The purpose of Congress in the Recovery Act was to
remove obstructions to interstate and foreign commerce
resulting from the general industrial depression. See
Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 348. The evident purpose
of the Act is sufficient to distinguish it from the Child

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

Argument for Respondents.

Labor Law involved in Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S.
251.
The production-control. provisions of the Petroleum
Code do not involve any infringement of the rights guaranteed by the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502, 525; Champlir-Refining Co. v. CorporationComm'n, 286 U. S, 210.
The extent to which Congress is permitted to delegate
authority must be determined essentially by the necessities of practical administration. Wayman v. Southard,
10 Wheat. 1; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; Buttfield v.
Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; Union Bridge Co. v. United
States, 204 U. S. 364; United States v. Grimaud,220 U. S.
506; Hampton & Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 394.
Congress was confronted with the alternative either of
not legislating effectively or of making a broad delegation.
The phrase "fair competition" in the Recovery Act is
given substance and meaning by the context in which it is
used. See New York Central Securities Corp. v. United
States, 287 U. S. 12, 24, 25; Federal Radio Comm'n v.
Nelson Bros. Co., 289 U. S. 266, 285.
Production in excess of quotas assigned by a state
agency pursuant to the provisions of the Petroleum Code
is " unfair " (Federal Trade Comm'n v. Keppel & Bro.,
291 U. S. 304) and concerns "competition" and may,
therefore, be prohibited in a code of fair competition approved under the Recovery Act.
Section 9 (c) is within the commerce power. Prohibition of the use of interstate commerce as'an instrumentality for the promotion of violation of state laws, or for
the furtherance of injurious or harmful results in other
States, has been consistently upheld. Clark Distilling Co.
v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311; Brooks v.
United States, 267 U. S. 432; Championv. Ames, 188 U. S.
321. Distinguishing Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251.

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Argument for Respondents.

293 U. S.

Section 9 (c) is not an unconstitutional delegation of
legislati&e authority. The President's discret'on under
this section is limited to determining when the prohibition shall take effect. Delegations of this character have
uniformly been upheld. Hampton & Co. v. United Stdtes,
276 U. S. 394; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; United States
v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506. The general policies and purposes of the Recovery Act, of which § 9 (c) is an integral
part, govern the President's determination of the time or
times during which the prohibition against the transportation of "hot" oil shall be applied.
Neither in the Grimaud case nor in the Embargo statutes was there any express requirement for the stating of
findings. If it be said that by the phrases "in the public
interest " or " insuring the protection " of reservations

there is a requirement that the Executive shall in his own
mind make a finding, this is not different in substance from
requiring him to act according to a standard. And if it
be urged that the phrases in " the public interest " or " as
will insure the objects of such reservations" fix a standard
guiding the Executive in the determination of whether
the regulation or embargo shall go into effect, then it is to
be answered that in the -present statute, if it be read as a
whole and § 9 (c) read with the policy.of the Act, there is
also a standard.
Section 9 (c) sets forth explicitly what may be prohibited. The only delegation there relates to when the pro.
hibition shall be in effect. The standards to govern the
President's action under .§ 9 (c) are found in the declaration of policy in § 1; and the test which the President
must apply in determining his action under § 9 (c) is
whether it will in his judgment serve to effectuate these
policies. He is as much under a duty to conform his

PANAMA REFINING 00. v. RYAN.
388

Opinion of the C"ourt.

action to these standards as he would be if § 9 (c) had
expressly so stated. United States v. Delaware& Hudson
Co., 213 U. S. 366, 407.
The statute does not require the President to hold a
hearing, to make formal findings, or to publish his reasons
for exercising his discretion. The validity or invalidity of
a delegation of legislative power does not depend upon
presence or absence of a statutory requirement that the
President or other executive officer make a specified finding before exercising the authority delegated. United
States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506.
In the very nature of the office of President he is to
act, and it may properly be assumed that he will act, " in
the public interest" or in accordance with the principles
and the policy of the particular legislation under which he
does act. To require, as a condition to the validity of a
statute, that the President make a specified finding, such
as that he finds a particular requirement "in the public
interest " or "necessary and proper," is a mere formality.
It is submitted that the actual exercise of the President's
power under § 9 (c) is and necessarily involves a finding
as fully as though he had stated some formal finding. in
the Executive Order putting 9 (c) into effect.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
On July 11, 1933, the President, by Executive Order,
prohibited " the transportation in interstate and foreign
commerce of petroleum and the products thereof produced
or withdrawn from storage in excess of the amount permitted to be produced or withdrawn from storage by any
State law or valid regulation or order prescribed thereunder, by any board, commission, officer, or other duly

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

authorized agency of a State." 1 This action was based on
§ 9 (c) of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act
of June 16, 1933, 48 Stat. 195, 200, 15 U. S. C. Tit. I, § 709
(c). That section provides:
"Sec. 9 . . .
"(c) The President is authorized to prohibit the transportation in interstate and foreign commerce of petroleum
and the products thereof produced or withdrawn from
storage in excess of the amount permitted to be
produced or withdrawn from storage by any state law
or valid regulation or order prescribed thereunder,
by any board, commission, officer, or other duly authorized agency of a State. Any violation of any order
of the President issued under the provisions of this subsection shall be punishable by fine of not to exceed $1,000,
or imprisonment for not to exceed six months, or both."
On July 14, 1933, the President, by Executive Order,
authorized the Secretary of the Interior to exercise all the
powers vested in the President " for the purpose of en'The full text of the Executive Order of July 11, 1933, is as follows:
" EXECUTIVE ORDER

"Prohibition of Transportationin Interstate and Foreign Commerce
of Petroleum and the Products thereof unlawfully produced or withdrawn from storage.

"By virtue of the authority vested in me7 by the Act of Congress
entitled 'AN ACT To encourage national industrial recovery, to foster
fair competition, and to provide for the construction of certain useful
public works, and for other purposes,' approved June 16, 1933,
(Public No. 67, 73d Congress), the transportation in interstate and
foreign commerce of petroleum and the products thereof produced or
withdrawn from storage in excess of the amount permitteo to be
produced or withdrawn from storage by any State law or valid
iegulation or order prescribed thereunder, by any board, commission,

officer, or other duly authorized agency of a State, is hereby prohibited.
FRANKLIN

"The White House,
July 11, 1933."

D.

RoOSV ELT."

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

Opinion of the Court.

forcing Section 9 (c) of said act and said order" of July
11, 1933, "including full authority to designate and appoint such agents and to set up such boards and agencies
as he may see fit, and to promulgate such rules and regulations as he may deem necessary." 2 That order was
made under § 10 (a) of the National Industrial Recovery
Act, 48 Stat. 200. 15 U. S. C. 710 (a). authorizing the
President "to prescribe such rules and regulations as
may be necessary to carry out the purposes" of Title I
of the National Industrial Recovery Act and providing
that "any violation of any such rule or regulation shall
be punishable by fine of not to exceed $500, or imprisoninent for not to exceed six months, or both."
On July 15, 1933, the Secretary of the Interior issued
regulations to carry out the President's orders of July 11
and 14, 1933. These regulations were amended by orders
' The Executive Order of July 14, 1933, is as follows:
"ExECUTIVE

ORDER

"Prohibition of Transportation in Interstate and Foreign Commerce

of Petroleum awd the Products thereof unlawfully produced or withdravnz from storage.
" By virtue of the authority vested in me by th6 Act of Congress

entitled"AN ACT To encourage national industrial recovery, to foster
fair competition, and to provide for the construction of certain useful
public works, and for other purposes,' approved June 16, 1933, (Public
No. 67, 73d Congress), in order tjo effectuate the intent and purpose

of the Congress as expressed in Section 9 (c) thereof, and for the
purpose of securing the enforcement of my order of July 11, 1933.
issued pursuant to said act, I hereby authorize the Secretary of

-the

Interior to exercise all the powers vested in me. for the purpose of
enforcing Section 9 (c) of said act and said order, including full
authority to designate and appoint such agents and to set up
such boards and agencies as he may see fit, and to promulgate such
rules and regulations as he may deem necessary.
FEANKLIN

"The White House,
July 14, 1933."

D.

RoOsEvELT."

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Upinion of the Court.

293 iT.S.

of July 25, 1933, and August 21, 1933, prior to the. commencement of these suits. Regulation IV provided in
substance, that every producer of petroleum should file a
monthly statement under oath, beginning August 15,
1933, with the Division of Investigations of the Department of the Interior, giving information with respect to
the residence and post-office address of the producer, the
location of his producing properties and wells, the ailowable production as prescribed by state authority, the
amount of daily production, all deliveries of petroleum,
and declaring that no part of the petroleum or products
produced and shipped had been produced or withdrawn
from storage in excess of the amount permitted by state
authority. Regulation V required every purchaser, shipper (other than a producer). and refiner of petroleum, including processors, similarly to file a monthly statement
under oath, giving information as to residence and postoffice address, the place and date of receipt. the parties
from whom and the amount of petroleum received and the
amount held in storage, the disposition of the petroleum,
particulars as to deliveries, and declaring, to the best of
the affiant's information and belief, that none of the petroleum so handled had been produced or withdrawn fror.
storage in excess of that allowed by state authority.
Regulation VII provided that all persons embraced within the terms of § 9 (c) of the Act, and the Executive
Orders and regulations issued thereunder, should keep
"available for inspection by the Division of Investigations
of the Department of the Interior adequate books and records of all transactions involving the production an
transportation of petroleum and the products thereof."
On August 19, 1933, the President, by Executive Order.
stating that his action was taken under Title I of the
National Industrial Rpcoverv Ac'. 'ipprovel a "Code oi

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

Opinion of the Court.

Fair Competition for the Petroleum Industry."

'

By a

further Executive Order of August 28, 1933, the President designated the Secretary of the Interior as Administrator, and the Department of the Interior as the Federal Agency, to exercise on behalf of the President all the
powers vested in him under that Act and Code. Section
3 (f) of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act
provides that when a code of fair competition has been
approved or prescribed by the President under that title,
"any violation of any provision thereof in any transaction in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce shall
'The Executive Order of August 19, 1933, is as follows:

" EXECUTIVE

ORDER

"Code of Fair Competition for the Petroleum Industry.
"An application having been duly made, pursuant to and in full
compliance with the provisions of Title I of the National Industrial
Recovery Act, approved June 16, 1933, for my approval of a Code
of Fair Competition for the Petroleum Industry, and hearings having
been held thereon ad the Administrator having rendered his report
together with his recommendations and findings with respect thereto,
and the Administrator having found that the said Code of Fair Cornpetition complies in all respects with the pertinent provisions of
Title I of said Act and that the requirements of clauses (1) and
(2) of subsection (a) of Section 3 of the said Act have been met:
"Now, THEREFORE, I, Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the
United States, pursuant to the authority vested in me by Title I
of the National Industrial Recovery Act, approved June 16, 1933, and
otherwise, do adopt and approve the report, recommendations and
findings of the Administrator and do order that the said Code of
Fair Competition be and it is hereby approved.
FRANKLIN D. RoosEvELT."
-Approval Recommended:
11L.AH S. JOHNSON,

Administrator.
"The White House,
August 19, 1933."

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

be a misdemeanor, punishable by fine of not more than
$500 for each offense, each day of said violation to be
deemed a separate offense."
This "Petroleum Code" (in its original form and as
officially printed) provided in § 3 of Article III relating
to "Production," for estimates of "required production
of crude oil to balance consumer demand for petroleum
products" to be made at intervals by the Federal Agency.
This "required production " was to be " equitably allocated" among the several States. These estimates and
allocations, when approved by the President, were -to be
deemed to be "the net reasonable market demand," and
the allocations were to be recommended "as the operating
schedules for the producing States and for the industry."
By § 4 of Article III, the subdivision, with respect to
producing properties, of the production allocated to each
State, was to be made within the State. The second
paragraph of that section further provided:
"If any subdivision into quotas of production allocated
to any State shall be made within a State any production by any person, as person is defined in Article I, Section 3 of this code, in excess of any such quota assigned to
him, shall be deemed an unfair trade practice and in violation of this code."By an Executive Order of September 13, 1933, modifying certain provisions of the Petroleum Code, this second
paragraph of § 4 of Article III was eliminated. It was
reinstated by Executive Order of September 25, 1934.
These suits were broaght in October, 1933.
In No. 135, the PanamaRefining Company, as owner of

an oil refining plant in Texas, and its co-plaintiff, a producer having oil and gas leases in Texas, sued to restrain
the 'defendants, who were federal officials, from enforcing
Regulations IV, V and VII prescribed by the Secretary
of the Interior under § 9 (c) of the National Industrial

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

Opinion of the Court.

Recovery Act. Plaintiffs attacked the validity of § 9 (c)
as an unconstitutional delegation to the President of legislative power and as transcending the authority of the
Congress under the. commerce clause. The regulations,
and the attempts to enforce them by coming upon the
properties of the plaintiffs, gauging tiir tanks, digging up
pipe lines, and otherwise, were alsc assailed under the
Fourth and Fifth Amendments of the Constitution.
In No. 260, the Amazon Petroleum Corporation., and
its co-plaintiffs, all oeing oil producers ini Texas and owning separate properties, sued to enjoin the Railroad Commission of that State, its members and ocher state officers,
and the other defendants who were federal officials, from
enforcing the state and federal restrictions upon the production and. disposition of oil. The bill alleged that the
legislation of the State and the orders of its commission
in curtailing pcoduction violated the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. As to the federal re-

quirements, the bill not only attacked 9 (c) of the National Industrial Recovery Act. and the regulations of the
Secretary of the Interior thereunder, upoi2 substantially
the sanie grounds as those set forth in the bill of the
PanamaRefinrng Campany, but also challenged the validity of provisiomiz of the Petruleam Code. While a number
of these provisLhi

were set out

Ih

the bill, the contest

on the trial related to thea imitatioi, of production through
the allocation of utzas pursuanct to § 4 of Article III of
the Code.
As the cabe iiivolhd theCCU, SOLuL..1id viiuity of orders
of the state comniission and an ii.telo..ucocy injunction
was sought, a court of tihrce juagcs was convened under
§ 266 .0f the Judicial Code (28 U,S.C. 380). That court
decided that the cause utaction against the federal officials
was not one within § 266 but was for che consideratiun of
the District Judge alone. Tue .putieb agreed tht the
causes of aetior- should bt sevcred and that each cause

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

should be submitted to the tribunal having jurisdiction
of it. Hearing was had both on the applications for interlocutory injunction and upon the merits. The court
of three judges, sustaining the state orders, denied injunction and dismissed the bill as against the state authorities.
5 F. Supp. 633, 634, 639.
In both cases against the federal officials, that of the
Panama Refining Co. and that of the Amazon Petroleum
Corp., heard by the District Judge, a permanent injunction was granted. 5 F. Supp. 639. In the case of the
Amazon Petroleum Corp., the court specifically enjoined
the defendants from enforcing § 4 of Article III of the
Petroleum Code, both plaintiffs and defendants, and the
court, being unaware of the amendment of September 13,
1933.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decrees
against the federal officials and directed that the bills be
dismissed. 71 F. (2d) 1, 8. The cases come here on writs
of certiorari granted on October 8, 1934.
First. The controversy with respect to the provision of
§ 4 of Article III of the Petroleum Code was initiated
and proceeded in the courts below upon a false assumption. That assumption was that this section still contained the paragraph (eliminated by the Executive Order
of September 13, 1933) by which production in excess
of assigned quotas was made an unfair practice and a
violation of the Code. Whatever the cause of the failure
to give appropriate public notice of the change in the
section, with the result that the persons affected, 'the
prosecuting authorities, and the courts, were alike ignorant of the alteration, the fact is that the attack in this
respect was upon x provision which did not exist. The
Government's announcement that, by reason of the elimination of this paragraph, the Government " cannot, and
therefore it does not intend to, prosecute petitioners or
other producers of oil in Texas, Icriminally or otherwise,

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
399

Opinion of the Court.

for exceeding, at any time prior to September 25. 1934.
the quotas of production assigned to them under the laws
of Texas," but that if " petitioners, or other producers
produce in excess of such quotas after September 25, 1934.
the Government intends to prosecute them.!' cannot avail
to import into the present case the amended provision
of that date.' The case is not one where a subsequent
law is applicable to a pending suit and controls its disposition.5 When this suit was brought, and when it was
heard, there was no cause of action for the injunction
sought with respect to the provision of § 4 of Article
III of the Code; as to that. there was no basis for real
controversy. See California v. San Pablo, 149 U. S. 308,
314; United States v. Alaska Steamship Co., 253 U. S.
113, 116; Barker Co. v. Painters' Union, 281 U. S. 462.
-If the Government undertakes to enforce the new provision, the petitioners, as well as others, will have an
opportunity to present their grievance, which can then
be considered, as it should be, in the light of the facts
as they will then appear.
For this reason, we pass to the other questions presented and we express no opinion as to the interpretation or validity of the provisions of the Petroleum Code.
Second. Regulations IV, V and VII, issued by the Secretary of the Interior prior to these suits, have since been
amended. But the amended regulations continue sub' The Government states that although the second paragraph of
§ 4 of Article 111 was a part of the Code for a short period prior to
September 13, 1933, no legal basis exists for prosecution for production in Texas during that period.
'See United States v. The Schooner Peggy, 1 Cranch 103, 109, 110;
Dinsmore v. Southern Express Co., 183 U. S. 115, 120; Crozier v.
Krupp, 224 U. S. 290, 302; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Dennis, 224
U. S. 503, 507; Watts, Watts & Co. v. Unione A ustriaca, 248 U. S. 9,
21; Duplex Printing Press Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, 464; American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City Council, 257 U. S. 184, 201; Texas
Co. v. Brown, 258 U. S. 466, 474.

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

stantialy the earlier requirements. and expand them.
They present the same constitutional questions, and the
cases as to these are not moot. Southern Pacific Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 219 U. S. 433, 452; Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n,
219 U. S. 498, 514-516; McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S.
135, 181, 182.
The original igulations of July 15, 1933. as amended
July 25, 1933, and August 21, 1033, were issued to enforce the Executive Orders of July 11 and July 14, 1933.
The Executive Order of July 11, 1933, was made under
§ 9 (c) of the National Industrial Recovery Act, and the
Executive Order. of July 14, 1933, under § 10 (a) of that
Act, authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to promulgate regulations, was for the purpose of enforcing § 9 (c)
and the Executive Order of July 11, 1933. The amended
regulations have been issued for the same purpose. The
fundamental question as to these regulations thus turns
upon the validity of § 9 (c) and the executive orders to
carry it out.

Third. The statute provides that any violation of any
order.of the President issued under § 9 (c) shall be punishable by fine of not to exceed $1,000, or imprisonment
for not to exceed six months, or both. We think that
these penalties would attach to each violation,. and in
this view the plaintiffs were entitled to invoke the equitable jurisdiction to restrain enforcement, if the statute
and the executive orders were found to be invalid. Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, 620, 621; Terrace v.
Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 214-216; Hygrade Provision
Co. v. Sherman, 266 U. S. 497, 499, 500.
Fourth. Section 9 (c) is assailed upon the ground that
it is an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power.
The section purports to authorize the President to pass a
prohibitory law. The subject to which this authority relates is d.ned.. It is the transpt4a~ion in interstate and

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

415"

Opinion of the Court.

foreign commerce of petroleum and petroleum products
which are produced or withdrawn from storage in excess
of the amount permitted by state authority. Assuming
for the present purpose, without deciding, that the'Congress has power to interdict the transportation of that
excess in interstate and foreign commerce, the question
whether that transportation shall be prohibited by law
is obviously one of legislative policy' Accordingly, we
look to the statute to see whether the Congress has declared a policy with respect to that subject; whether the
Congress has set up a standard for the President's action;
whether the Congress has required any finding by the
President in the exercise of the authority to enact the
prohibition.
Section 9 (c) is brief and unambiguous. It does not
attempt to control the production of petroleum and petroleum products within a State. It does not seek to lay
down rules for the guidance of state legislatures or state
officers. It leaves to the States and to their constituted
authorities the dlterinination of.what production shall
be permitted. It does not qualify the President's authority by reference to the basis, or extent, of the State's limitation of production. Section 9 (c) does not state
whether, or in What circumstances or under what conditions, the Pregident is to prohibit the transportation of
the amount of petroleum or petroleum products produced
in excess of the State's permission. It establishes no criterion fo govern the President's course. It does not require any finding by the President as a.condition of his
action. The Congress in § 9 (c) thus declares no policy
as to the transportation of: the excess production. So far
as this section is concerned, it gives to the President an
unlimited authority to determine the policy and to lay
clown the prohibition, or not to lay it down, as he may see
fit. And disobedience to his order is made a crime punishable by fine and imprisonment.

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Opinion of thp Court.

293 TT. S

We Pxamineth, eontxt to ascertain if it furnishes a
Apelpration of policy or a standard of action, which can
be deemed to relate to the subject of § 9 (c) and thus
to imply what is not there expressed. It is important to
note that *§ 9 is headed "Oil Regulation,"-that is, § 9
is the part of the National Industrial Recovery Act which
particularly deals with that subject matter. But the other
provisions of § 9 afford no ground for implying a limitation of the broad grant of authority in § 9 (c). Thus
§ 9 (a). authorizes the President to initiate before the Interstate Commerce, Commission "proceedings necessary to
prescribe regulations to cbntrol the operations of oil pipe
lines and to fix reasonable, compensatory rates for the
transportation of petroleum and its products by pipe
lines," and the Interstate Commerce Commission is to
grant preference "to the hearings and determination of
such cases." Section 9 (b) authorizes the President to
institute proeedings "to divorce from any holding company any pipe-line company controlled by such holding
company whichpipe-line company by unfair practices or
by exorbitant rates in the transportation of petroleum or
its-products tends to create a monopoly." It will be
observed that each of these provisions contains restrictive clauses as to their respective subjects. Neither relates to the subject of § 9 (c).
We turn to the other provisions of Title I of the Act.
The first section is a " declaration of policy." I It detlarts that a national emergency exists "which is pro'The text of § 1 is as follows:
" Section 1. A-national emprgency productive of wide-spread unem1,!oyvnent and disora ,nizatien of indistry, which burdens intersta'*,
and foreign' commerce, affects the public w- fare. and undermines the
ft',ndards of living of the American peoplp, is hereby declared to
eist, It ;s hereby declared to bp the policy of Congress to remov
,hstructionq to the free fi:.v of inferstate and foreign commerce
'h;eh tend to diminish the ,neunt thereof; and to provide for the

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

Opinion of the Court.

ductive of widespread unemployment and disorganization of industry, which burdens interstate and foreign
commerce, affects public welfare, and undermines the
standards .of living of the American people." It is de-

clared to be the policy of Congress " to remove obstructions to the free flow of interstate and foreign commerce
which tend to diminish the amount thereof "; "to provide for the general welfare by promoting the organization of industry for .the purpose of co6perative action
among trade groups "; " to induce and maintain united

action of labor and management under adequate governmental sanctions and supervision "; "to eliminate unfair
competitive practices, to promote the fullest possible
utilization of the present productive capacity of industries, to avoid undue restriction of production (excfpt
as may be temporarily required), to increase the consumption of industrial and agricultural products by increasing purchasing power, to reduce and relieve unemployment, to'improve standards cf labor, and otherwise
to rehabilitate ind6stry and to conserve natural resources."
This general outline of policy contains nothing as to the
circumstances or conditions in which transportation of
petroleum or petroleum products should be prohibited,nothing as to the policy of prohibiting, or not prohibiting,
the transportation- of production exceeding. what' the
general welfare by promoting the organization of industry for the
purpose of cobperative action among trade groups, to induce and
maintain united action of labor and management' under adequate
governmental sanctions, and supervision, to eliminate unfair competitive practices, to promote the fullest possible utilization of the
present productive capacity of iodustries, to avoid ,undue restriction
of production (except as may be temporarily required), to increase
the consumption of industrial and agricultural products by increasing purchasing power, to reduce and relieve unemployment, to improve standards of labor, and otherwise to rehabilitate industry and
to conserve natural resources."

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

States allow. The general policy declared is " to remove
obstructions to the free flow of interstate and foreign com-merce." As to production, the section lays down no policy of limitation.. It favors the fullest possible utilization
of the present productive capacity of industries. It
speaks, parenthetically, of a possible temporary restriction of production, but of what, or in what circVmstances,
it gives no suggestion. The section also'speaks in general
terms of the conservation of natural resources, but it prescribes no policy for the achievement'of that end. It is
manifest that this broad outline is simply an introduction
of the Act, leaving the legislative p6licy as to particular
subjects to be declared and defined, if at all, by the subsequent sections.
It is no answer to insist that deleterious consequences
follow the transportation of" hot oil,"-oil exceeding state
allowances. The Congress did not prohibit that transportation. The Congress did not undertake to say that
the transportation of "hot oil " was injurious. The Congress did not say that transportation of that oil was " unfair competition." The Congress did not declare in What
circumstances that transportation. should be forbidden,
or require the President -to make any determination as to
any facts or circumstances. Among the numerous and
diverse objectives broadly stated, the President was not
requir,. to choose. The President was not required to
ascertain and proclaim the conditions prevailing in the
industry which made the prohibition necessary. The
Congress left the matter to the President without standard
or rule, to be dealt with as he jleased. The'effort by ingenious and diligent construction to supply a criterion
still permits such a breadth of authorized action as essen*tially to commit to the President the functions of a legislature rather than those of an executive or administrative

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

419
4

Opinion of the Court.

officer executing a declared legislative policy. We find
nothing in § I which limits or controls the authority
conferred by § 9 (c)..
We pass to the other sections of the Act. Section 2
relates t o administrative agencies which may be. constituted.. Section 3 provides for the approval by the
President of " codes" for trades or industries. These are
to be codes of ' fair competition" and the authority is
based upon certain express conditions which require findings by the President. Action under .§9 (c) is not made
to depend on the formulation of a code under § 3. In fact;
the President's action under § 9 (c) was taken more than
a month before a petroleum code was approved. Subdivision (e) of § 3 authorizes the President, on his own
motion or upon complaint, as stated, in case any article
is being imported into the United States "in substantial
quantities or increasing ratio to domestic production of
any cimpetitive article," under such conditions as to
endanger the.-maintenance.of a code or agreement uidei
Title I, to cause an immediate investigation by the Tariff
Commission. The authority of the President to act, after
such investigation, is conditioned upon a finding by him
of the existence of the underlying facts, and he may permit entry of the articles concerned upon such conditions
and with such limitations as he shall find it necessary
to prescribe in order that the entry shall not tend to
render the code 'or agreement ineffective. Section 4 relates to agreements and licenses for the purposes stated.
Section 5 refers to the application of the anti-trust laws.
Sections 6 and 7 impose limitations upon the application
of Title I, bearing upon trade associations and other
organizations and upon thk relations between employers
and employees. Section 8 contains provisions with respect to the application of the Agricultural Adjustment
Act of May 12, 1933.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

None of these provisions can be deemed to prescribe any
limitation of the grant of authority in § 9 (c).
Fifth. The question whether such a delegation of legislative power is permitted by the Constitution is not
answered by the argument that it should be assumed that
the President has acted, and will act, for what he believes
to be the public good. The point is not one of motives but of constitutional authority, for which the best
of motives is not a substitute. While the present controversy relates to a delegation to the President, the basic
question has a much wider application. If the Congress
can make a grant of legislative authority of the sort attempted by § 9 (c), we find nothing in the Constitution
which restricts the Congress to the selection of the President as grantee. The Congress may vest the power in the
officer of its choice or in a board or commission such as it
may select or create for the purpose. Nor. with respect
to such a delegation, is the question concerned merely
with the transportation of oil, or of oil produced in excess of what the State may allow. If legislative power
may thus be vested in the President, or other grantee,
as to that excess of production, we see no reason to doubt
that it may similarly be vested with respect to the transp6rtation of oil without reference to the State's requirements. That reference simply defines the subject of the
prohibition which the President is authorized to enact, or
not to enact, as he pleases. And if that legislative power
may be given to the President or other grantee, it would
seem to follow that such power may similarly be conferred with respect to the transportation of other commodities in interstate commerce with or without reference to state action, thus giving to the grantee of the
power the determination of what is a wise policy as to
that-transportation, and authority to permit or prohibit
it, as the person, or board or commission, so chosen, may

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

Opinion of the Court.

think desirable. In that view, there would appear to be no
ground for denying a similar prerogative of delegation
with respect to other subjects of legislation.
The Constitution provides that "All legislative powers
herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United
States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives." Art. I, § 1. And the Congress is empowered " To make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution " its general powers.
Art. I, § 8, par. 18. The Congress manifestly is not perinitted to abdicate, or to transfer to others, the essential
legislative functions with which it is thus vested. Undoubtedly legislation must often be adapted to complex
conditions involving a host of details with which the national legislature cannot deal directly. The Constitution
has never been regarded as denying to the Congress the
necessary resources of flexibility and practicality, which
will enable it to perform its function in laying down policies and establishing standards, while leaving to selected
instrumentalities ihe making of subordinate rules within
prescribed limits and the determination of facts to which
the policy as declared by the legislature is to apply. Without capacity to give authorizations of that sort we should
have the anomaly of a legislative power which in many
circumstances calling for its exertion would be but a
futility. But the constant recognition of the necessity
and validity of such provisions, and the wide range of
administrative authority which has been developed by
means of them, cannot be allowed to obscure the limitations of the authority to delegate, if our constitutional
system is to be maintained.
The Court has had frequent occasion to refer to these
limitations and to review the course of congressional action. At the very outset, amid the disturbances due to
war in Europe, when the national safety was imperiled

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Opinion of the ('ourt.

293 U. S.

and our neutrality was disregarded, the Congress passed a
series of acts. as a part of which the Presiden was authorized. in stated circumstances, to lay and revoke embargoes, to give permits for the exportation of arms and
military stores, to remit and discontinue the restraints and
prohibitions imposed by acts suspending commercial intercourse with certain countries, and to permit or interdict
the entrance intoi waters of the United States of armed
vessels belonging to foreign nations.' Thes, early acts
were not the subject of judicial decision and. apart from
that, they afford no adequate basis for a conclusion that
the ('ongress assumed that it possessed an unqualified
power of delegation. They were inspird by the vexations
of.Ainerican commerce through the hostile enterprises of
the belligerent powers." the'y were directed to the effective
execution of policies tepeteil]y declared by the Congress,
and they crmofid,] tit the President, for the purposes and
under the conditions stated, an authority which was cognate to the conduct by him of the foreign relations of the
Govern men t .
Acts of .June 4, 1794, 1 Stat. 372: March 3, 1795, 1 Stat. 444:
June 13, 179,8, 1 Stat. 565, 5o!; Fe)ruarv 9, 1799, 1 Stat. 613, 615:
February 27, 1800, 2 Stat. 7, 9, 10; March 3, 1805, 2 Stnt. 339, 341,
342. February 28, ISOG, 2 Stat 351, 352; April 22, 18018, 2 Stat. 490.
Marshall's Life of Wishinvon. Vol. 2, ip. 319, et seq.
Thus, prior. to the At of .ime 4, 1794 (1 Stat. 372), the Cougress
h:ol laid emhlnrgoes, for limited periods, upon vessels in ports of the
VniP'ed States hound to forvipn ports. Resolutions of March 26, 1794,
and April 18, 1794, 1 Stii 410, 401.

Fearing that the national safety

might be en hnlreil. the Presidlent, hy the Act of June 4, 1704, was
ai hrize, I to liy an emlborto, with apipropriate regulation., whenver 1w find " that the ipublic safety shall so requir.," the authority
not to be exWrcisod while the Congress was in s(,sion and the emh'rgo.to be limited in any case to 15 days after the commencement
of tli next: cession. [Ti Act of March 3, 1795 (1 Stit. 444), authorizing the PresilntI it) p,.rmit the exportation of arms, etc. was " in
cIseonnft
'ected
with lie eci rity of the commervial intirest of the

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

Opinion of the Court.

The first case relating to an authorization of this description was that of The Brig Aurora, 7 Cranch 382. The
cargo of that vessel had beeni condemned as having been
imported from Great Britain in violation of the non-intercourse Act of March 1, 1809. 2'Stat. 528. That Act expired on MIay 1, 1810,"° when Congress passed another
United States and for public purposes only." By the Act of June 13,
179S (1 Stat. 565), commercial intercourse was suspended between
the United States and France and its dependencies. The Act was
to continue only until the etil of the next session of Congress and it
was proviled (§ 5) that if, 1hefore the next session, the Government
of Fr:ince " shall clearly disavow, and shall be found to refrain from
the aggressions, depredations and hostilities ' against, the vessels and
other prol)erty of citizens of the I'nit(,l States, and shall acknowledge
the neutrality of the United States, " it shall be lawful for the President," " being well a~certained of the premises," to remit and discontinue the prohibitions and restraints imposed by the Act and to make
proclamation accordingly. The Act of Febriiary 9, 1799 (1 Stat. 613),
further suspended commercial intercourse between the United States
and France and its dependencies until March 3, 1800, and gave a
similar authority (§ 4) to the President to remit and discontinue the
restraints and prohibitions of the Act, " if he shall deem it expedient
and consistent with the interest of the United States," e ither with
respect to the Fren,'h Republic or to any place belonginz to that
Republic, " with which a. commercial intercourse may safely be
renewed," and to revoke such order if ie found that the interest of
the United States so required. The suspension of commercial intercourse was renewed by the Act of February 27, 1S00 (2 Stat. 7)
until March 3, 1801, with a similar provision as to the authority of
the President. The Act of MINzrch 3, 1805 (2 Stat. 339) related to
persons committing treason, felony, etc. within the jurisdiction of the
United States and taking refuge in loreign armed vessels, and the
authority to the President to permit or prevent the entry of such
vessels into the waters of the United States (§ 4) was " in order to
prevent insults to the authority of the laws, whereby the peace of
the United States with foreign nations may be endangered." See
also Act of April 22, 1808, 2 Stat. 400. See also, Proclamations of
President Adams, " Works of John Adams," Vol. IX, pp. 176, 177.
'° See Act of June 28, 1809, 2 Stat. 550.

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
OpinioR of the Court.

293 Ti. S.

Act (2 Stat. 605, 606) providing that in case either Great
Britain or France, before March 3, 1811, "shall . . . so
revoke or modify her edicts as that they shall cease to
violate the neutral commerce of the United States, which
fact the President of the United States shall declare by
proclamation, and if the other nation shall not within
three months thereafter so revoke or modify her edictg
in like manner," then, with respect to that nation, as
stated, the provisions of the Act of 1809, after three
months from that proclamation, " shall . . . be revived,
and have full force and effect." On November 2, 1810,
the President issued his proclamation declaring that
France had so revoked or modified her edicts, and it was
contended that the provisions of the Act of 1809, as to the
cargo in question, had thus been revived. The Court said
that it c'ould see no sufficient reason why the legislature
should not exercise its discretion in reviving the Act of
1809, "either expressly or conditionally, as their judgment
should direct." The provision of that Act declaring" that
it should continue in force to a certain time, and no
longer," could not restrict the power of the legislature to.
extend its operation " without limitation upon the occurrence of any subsequent combination of events." This was
a decision, said the Court in Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.. 649,
683, "that it was competent for Congress to make the revival of an act depend upon the proclamation of the President, showing the ascertainment.'by him of the fact that
the edicts of certain nations had been so revoked or modified that they did not violite the neutral commerce of the
United States."
In Field v. Clark, supra, the Court applied that ruling
to the case of "the suspension of an act upon a contingency to be ascertained by the" President, and made
known by his proclamation." The Court was dealing
with J 3 off the Act of October 1, 1890, 26 Stat. 567, 612.

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

Opinion of the Court.

That section provided that, " with a view -to secure reciprocal trade " with countries producing certain articles,
" whenever, and so often as the President shall be satisfied" that the Government of any country producing
them imposed '"duties or other exactions upon the agricultural or other products of the United States" which,
inview of the free list established by the Act, the President 'fmay deem to be reciprocally unequal and ,un-,
reasonable, he shall have the power and it shall be his
duty," to suspend the free introduction of those articles
by proclamation to that effect, and that during that suspension the duties specified by the section should be
levied. The validity of the provision was challenged as
a delegation to the'President of legislative power. The
Court reviewed the early acts-to which we have referred,
as well as later statutes considered to be analogous."1
While sustaining the provision, the Court emphatically
declared that the principle that " Congress cannot delegate legislative power to the. President " is "universally
"Acts of March 3, 1815, 3 Stat. 224; March 3, 1817, 3 Stat. 361;
January 7, 1824, 4 Stat. 2; May 24, 1828, 4 Stat. 308; May 31, 1830,
4 Stat. 425; March 6, 1866, 14 Stat. 3; March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 490;
June 26, 1SS4, 23 Stat. 57; October 1, 1890, 26 Stat. 616. 2. S. 2493,
2494, 4219, 4228. Proclamations of Presidents; 3 Stat. App. I; 4 Stat.

App. III, 814-818; 9 Stat. App. 1001, 1004; 11 Stat. App. 795; 13
Stat. App. 739; 14 Stat. App. 818, 819; 16 Stat. App. 1127; 17 Stat.
App. 954, 956, 957; 21 Stat. 800; 2: Stat. 841, 842, 844.
For other analogous statutes, see Acts of December 17, 1813, 3 Stat.
88, 93; June 19, 1886, 24 Stat. 79, 82; March 3, 1S87, 24 Stat. 475;
August 30, 1890, 26 Stat. 414. 415; Fcbrtr 15, 1893, 27 Stat. 449,
452; March 2, 1S95, 28 Stat. 727, 7:':2, September 8, 1916, 39 Stat...
756, 799; June 15, 1917, 40 Stat. 217 25; August 10, 1917, 40 Stat.
276; October 6, 1917, 40 Stat. 411, 422: March 4, 1919, 40 Stat. 1348,
1350; June 17,_1930, 46 Stat. 590, 70.4 Resolutions of Marcb 14,
1912, 37 Stat. 630; January 31, 1922, 42 Stat. 361. Proclamations:.
24 Stat. 1024, 1025, 1028, 1030; 27 Stat. 995, 1011; 3s Stat. 1960;
39 Stat. 1756; 40 Stat. 1683, 1689, c: seq.

426

4OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

recognized as vital to the integrity and maintenance of
the system of government ordained by the Constitution."
The Court found that the act before it was not inconsistent with that principle; that it did not "in any real
sense, invest the President with the power of legislation."
As 'the suspension was absolutely required when the
President ascertained the existence of a particular fact,"
it could not be said "that in ascertaining that fact and
in issuing his proclamation, in obedience to the legislative will, he exercised the function of making laws."
"He was the mere agent of the law-making department
to ascertain and declare the event upon which its expressed will was to take effect." Id., pp. 692, 693. The
Court referred with approval to the distinction pointed
out by.the Supreme Court of Ohio in- Cincinnati, W. &
Z. R. Co. v. Commissioners, 1 Ohio St. 88, between "the
delegation, of 'power to make the law, which necessarily
involves a discretion as to what it. shall be, and conferr'ng authority or discretion as to its execution,. to be
exercised under and in pursuance of the law."
Applying that principle, authorizations given .by Con- gress to selected instrumentalities for the purpose of ascertaining the existence of facts to which legislation is
directed, have constantly been sustained. Moreover, the
Congress may not only give such authorizations to determine specific facts but may establish primary standards,
devolving upon others the duty to carry out the declared
legislative policy, that is, as Chief Justice Marshall expressed it, " to fill up the details" under the general provisions made by the legislature. Wayman v. Southard,
10 Wheat. 1, 43. In Buttfield v. Stranahan,192 U. S. 470,
496, the Act of March 2, 1897 (29 Stat. 604, 605)' was
upheld, which authorized the Secretary of the Treasury,
upon the r-?commendation of a board of experts, to "esta ,lish unifoi-m standards of purity, quality, and fitness

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

Opinion of the Court.

for the consumption of all kinds of teas imported into
the United States." The Court construed the statute as
expressing "the purpose to exclude the lowest grades of
tea, whether demonstrably of inferior purity, or unfit for
consumption, or presumably so because of their inferior
quality." The Congress, the Court said, thus fixed "a
primary standard" and committed to the Secretary of the
Treasury "the mere executive duty to effectuate the legislative policy declared in the statute." "Congress legislated on the subject as far as was reasonably practicable,
and frym the necessities of the case was compelled to leave'
to executive officials the duty of bringing about the result
pointed out by the statute." See Red "C" Oi Co. v.
North Carolina,222 U. S. 380, 394.
Another notable illustration is that of the authority
given to the Secretary of War -to determine whether
bridges and other structures constitute unreasonable obstructions to navigation and to remove such obstructions.
Act of March 3, 1899, § 18, 30 Stat. 1153, 1154. By
that statute the Congress declared "a general rule and
imposed upon the Secretary of War the duty of ascertaining what paiticular cases came within the rule" as
thus laid down. Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204
U. S. 364, 386; MonongahelaBridge Co. v. United States,
216 U. S. 177, 193; Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223
U. S. 605, 638. Upon this principle rests the authority
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, in the execution
of the declared policy of the Congress in enforcing reasonable rates, in preventing undue preferences and unjust
discriminations, in requiring suitable facilities for transportation in interstate commerce, and in exercising other
powers held to have been validly conferred. St. Louis,
I. M. & S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 287; Intermountain Rate Cases, 234 U. S. 476, 486; Avent v. United
States, 266 U. S. 127, 130; N. Y. Central Securities Corp.

428

OCTOBER TERM, i934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 i. S.

v. United States, 287 U. S. 12, 24, 25. Upon a similar
ground the authority given to the President, in appropriate relation to his functions as Commander-'in-Chief,
by the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended by the
Act of March 28. 1918 (40 Stat. 460), with respect to the
disposition of enemy property, was sustained. "The determination," said the Court, " of the terms of sales of
enemy properties in the light of facts and conditions from
time to time arising in the progress of war was not the
making of a law; it was the application of the general
rule laid down by the Act." United States v. Chemical
Foundation,272 U. S. 1, 12.12
The provisions of the Radio Act of 1927 (44 Stat. 1162,
1163), providing for assignments of frequencies or wave
lengths to various stations,, afford another instance. In
granting licenses, the Radio Commission is required to
act " as public convenience, interest, or necessity requires." In construing this provision, the Court found
that the statute itself declared the policy as to "equality
of radio broadcasting service, both of trancmission and of
reception," and that it conferred authority to make allocations and assignments in order to secure, according to
stated criteria, an equitable adjustment in the distribution
of facilities." The standard set up was not so indefinite
" as to confer an unlimited power." Radio Commission v.
Nelson Brothers Co., 289 U. S. 266, 279, 285.
So, also, from the beginning of the Government, the
Congress has conferred upon executive officers the power
to make regulations,-" not for the government of their
departments, but for administering the laws which did
govern." United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506, 517.
Such regulations become, indeed, binding rules of conSee, also, §§ 4 (b) and 5 (a) of. the Trading with the Enemy Act,
40 Stat. 411. 4, 415.
' Act- of March 28, 1928, amending § 9 of the Radio Act of 1927,
45 Stat. 373.

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

Opinion of the Court.

duct, but they are valid only as subordinate rules and
when found to be within the framework of the policy
which the legislature has sufficiently defined. In the case
of Grimaud, supra, a regulation made by the Secretary of
Agriculture requiring permits for grazing sheep on a forest
reserve of lands belonging to the United States wap involved. The Court referred to the various acts for the
establishment and management of-forest reservations and
the authorization of rules which would "insure the objects
of such reservation," that is, " to regulate their occupancy
and use and to preserve the forests thereon from destruction." The Court observed that "it was impracticable for
Congress to provide general regulations for these various
and varying details of management," and that, in authorizing the Secretary of Agriculture to meet local conditions,
Congress " was merely conferring administrative functions
upon an agent, and not delegating to him legislative
power." Id., pp. 515, 516. The Court quoted with approval the statement of the principle in Field v. Clark,
supra, that the Congress cannot delegate legislative power,
and upheld the regulation in question as an administrative
rule for the appropriate execution of the policy laid down
in the statute. See Wayman v. Southard; supra; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224
U. S. 194, 214, 215; Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S."
366, 389; McKinley v. United States, 249 U. S. 397.
The applicable considerations were reviewed in Hampton & Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 394, where the
Court dealt with the so-called "flexible tariff provision"
of the Act of September 21, 1922 (42 Stat. 858, 941, 942),
and with the authority which it conferred upon the President. The Court applied the same principle that permitted the Congress to exercise its rate-making power
in interstate commerce, and found that a similar provision was justified for the fixing of customs duties; that
is, as the Court said, "If Congress shall lay down by

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

legislative act an intelligible pfinciple to which the person
or body authorized to fix such rates is directed to conform,
such legislative action is not a forbidden delegation of
legislative power. If it is thought wise to vary the customs duties according to changing conditions of productio.4 at horhie and abroad, it may authorize the Chief
Executive to carry out this purpose, with the advisory assistance of a Tariff Commission appointed under Congressional authority." The Court sustained the provision
upon the authority of Field v. Clark, supra,repeating with
approval what was there said,--that " What the President
was required to do was merely in execution of the act of
Congress." Id., pp. 409-411.
Thus, in every case in which the question has been
raised,' the Court has recognized that there are limits of
delegation which there is no constitutional authority to
.transcend. We think that § 9 (c) goes beyond those
limits. As to the transportation of oil production, in excess offtate permission, the Congress has declared no
policy, as established no standard, has laid down no rule.
There is no requirement, no definition of circumstances
and conditions in which the transportation is to -be allowed or prohibited.
If § 9 (c) were held valid, it would be idle to pretend
that anything would be left of limitations upon the power
of the Congress to delegate its law-making function. The
reasoning of the many decisions we have reviewed would
be made vacuous and their distinctions nugatory. Instead of performing its law-making function, the Congress
could at will and as t6 such subjects as it chose transfer
that function to the President or other officer or to an
administrative body. The question is not of the intrinsic
importance of the particular statute before us, but of the
constittitional processes of legislation which are an essential part of our system of government.

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

431

Opinion of the Court.

Sixth. There is another objection to the validity of the
prohibition laid down by the Executive Order under § 9
(c). The Executive Order contains no finding, no statement of the grounds of the President's action in enacting
the prohibition. Both § 9 (c) and the Executive Order
are in notable contrast with historic practice (as shown
by many statutes and proclamations we have cited in the
margin 14) by which declarations of policy are made by
the Congress and delegations are within the framework of
that policy and have relation to facts and conditions to
be found and stated by the President in the appropriate
exercise of the delegated authority. If it could be. said
that from the four corners of the statute any possible inference could be drawn of particular circumstances or
conditions which were to govern the exercise of the authority conferred, the President could not act validly
without having regard to those circumstances and conditions. And findings by him as to the existence of the
required basis of his action would be necessary to sustain
that action, for otherwise the case would still be one of
an unfettered discretion as the qualification of authority
would be ineffectual. The point is pertinent in. relation
to the first section of the National Industrial Recovery
Act. We have said that the first section is but a general
introduction, that it declares no policy and defines no
standard with respect to the transportation which is the
subject of § 9 (c). But if from the extremely broad description contained in that section and the widely different matters to which the section refers, it were possible
to derive a statement of prerequisites to the President's
action under § 9 (c), it would still be necessary for the
President to comply with those conditions and to show
that compliance as the ground of his prohibition. To hold
See Acts and Proclamations cited in Note 11, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

that he is free to select as he chooses from the many and
various objects generally described in the first section.,
and then to act without making any finding with respect
to any object that he does select, and the circumstances
properly related to that object, would be in effect to make
the conditions inoperative and to invest him with an uncontrolled legislative power.
We are not dealing with action which, appropriately belonging to the executive province, is not the subject of
judicial review, or with the presumptions attaching to
executive action.' To repeat, we are concerned with the
question of the delegation of legislative power. If the
citizen is to be punished for the crime of violating a legislative order of an executive officer, or of a board or commission, due process of -law requires that it shall appear
that the order is within the authority of the officer, board
or commission, and, if that authority depends on determinations of fact, those determinations must be shown.
As the Court said in Wichita Railroad& Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 260 U. S. 48, 59: " In creating such
an administrative agency the legislature, to prevent its
being a pure delegation of legislative power, must enjoin
upon it a certain course of procedure and certain rules of
decision in the performance of its function. It is a wholesome and necessary principle that such an agency must
pursue the procedure and rules enjoined and show a substantial compliance therewith to give validity to its action.
When, therefore, such an administrative agency is requited as a condition precedent to an order, to make a
finding of facts, the validity of the order must rest upon
the needed finding. If il is lacking, the order is ineffective.
fSee Philadelphia& Trenton R. Co. v. Stimpson, 14 Pet. 448, 458;
Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19, 30, 32; Dakota Central Telephone Co.
'V. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 163, 182, 184; United States v. Chemical
Foundation,272 U. S. 1, 14, 15; Sterling v. Cor.3tantin,287 U. S. 378,
399.

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

It is pressed on us that the lack of an express finding may
be supplied by implication and by reference to the averments of the petition invoking the action of the Commission. We can not agree to this." Referring to the ruling
in the Wichita case, the Court said in Mahler v. Eby, 264
U. S. 32, 44: "We held that the order in that case made
after a hearing and ordering a reduction was void for lack
of the express finding in the order. We put this conclusion
not only on the language of the statute but also on general principles of constitutional government." We cannot regard the President as immune from the application
of these constitutional principles. When the President
is invested with legislative authority as the delegate of
Congress incarrying out a declared policy, he necessarily
acts under the constitutional restriction applicable to such
a. delegation.
We see no e~cape from the conclusion that the Executive
Orders of July 11, 1933, and July 14, 1933, and the Regulations issued by the Secretary of the Interior thereunder,
are without constitutional authority.
The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals are reversed
and the causes are remanded to the District Court with
direction to modify its decrees in conformity with this
opinion so as to grant permanent injunctions, restraining
the defendants from enforcing those orders and regulations.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO,

dissenting.

With all that is said in the opinion of the court as to
the Code of Fair Competition adopted by the President
August 16, 1933, for the governance of the petroleum industry, I am fully in accord. No question is before us at
this time as to the power of Congress to regulate production. No question is here as to its -competence to clothe
the President with .a delegated power whereby a Code of
'Fair Competition may become invested with the force of

434A

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

293 U. S.

law. The petitioners were never in jeopardy by force of
such a code or of regulations made thereunder. They
were not in jeopardy because there was neither statute
nor regulation subjecting them to pains or penalties if
they set the code at naught. One must deplore the administrative methods that brought about uncertainty for
a time as to the terms of executive orders intended to be
law. Even so, the petitioners do not stand in need of an
injunction to restrain the enforcement of a non-existent
mandate.
I am unable to assent to the conclusion that § 9 (c) of
the National Recovery Act, a section delegating to. the
President a very different power from any that is in•volved in the regulation of prcduction or in the promulgation of a code, is to be nullified upon the ground that
his discretion is too broad or for any other reason, My
point of difference with the, majority of the court is narrow. I conicede that to uphold the delegation there is
need to, discover in the terms of the act a standard reasonably clear whereby discretion must be governed. I
deny that such a standard is lacking in respect 'of the
prohibitions permitted by this section when the act with
all its reasonable implications is considered as a whole.
What the standard is becomes the pivotal inquiry.
As to the: nature of the act which the President is authorized to perfolm there is no need for implication.
That at least is definite beyond the possibility of chal-'
lenge. He may prohibit the transportation in interstate
and foreign commerce of petroleum and the products
thereof produced or- withdrawn from storage in excess of
the amount permitted by' any state law or valid regulation or order prescribed thereunder. He is not left to
roam at will among all the possible subjects of interstate
transportation, picking and choosing as he pleases. I
am far from asserting now that, delegation would be

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN..
388

435

CAwozo, J., dissenting.

valid if accompanied by all that latitude of choice. In
the laying of his interdict he is to confine himself to
a particular. commodity, and to that commodity when
produced or withdrawn from storage in contravention of
the policy and statutes of the states. He has choice,
though within limits, as to the occasion, but none whatever as to the means. The means have been. prescribed
by Congress. There has been no grant to the Executive
of any roving commission to inquire into evils and then,
upon discovering them, do anything he pleases. His act
being thus defined, what else must he ascertain in order
to regulate his discretion and bring the power into play?
The answer is not given if we: look to § 9 (c) only, but it
comes to us by implication from a view of other sections
where the standards are defined. The prevailing opinion
concedes that a standard Vill be as effective if imported
into §'9 (c) by reasonable implication as if put there in
so many Words. If we look to the whole structure of the
statute, the test is plainly this, that the President is to
forbid the transportation of the oil when he believes, in
the light of the conditions of the industry as disclosed from
time to time, that the prohibition will tend to effectuate
the declared policies of the act,-not merely his own conception of its policies, undirected by any extrinsic guide,
but the policies announced by § 1 in the forefront of the
statute as an index to the meaning of everything that
follows.'
" Section 1 ....

It is hereby declared to be the policy of Congress

to remove obstructions to the free flow of interstate and foreign commerce which tend to diminish the amount thereof,; and to provide for
.the general welfare by promoting the organization of industry for the
purpose of co6perative action among trade groups, to induce and
maintain united action of labor and management under adequate
governmental qanctions and supervision, to' eliminate unfair competitive practices, to promote the fullest possible utilization of the present
productive capacity of industries, to avoid undue restriction of produc-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

293 U. S.

Oil produced or transported in excess of a statutory
quota is known in the industry as "hot oil," and the
re.cord is replete with evidence as to the effect of such
production and transportation upon the economic situation and upon national recovery. A declared policy of
Congress in the adoption of the act is"to eliminate unfair
competitive practices." Beyond question an unfair competitive practice exists when " hot oil " is transported in
interstate commerce with the result that law-abiding dealers must compete with lawbreakers. Here is one of the
standards set up in the act to guide the President's discretion. Another declared policy of Congress is " to conserve natural resources." Beyond question the disregard
of statutory quotas is wasting .,the oil fields in Texas and
other states, and putting in jeopardy of exhaustion
one
of the treasures of the nation. All this is developed in
the record and in the arguments of counsel for the government with a wealth of illustration. Here is a second
standard. Another deflared policy of Congress is to " promote the fullest possible utilization of the present productive capacity of industries," and "except as may be
temporarily required" to "avoid undue restriction of
production." Beyond question prevailing conditions in
the oil industry have brought about the need for temporary restriction in order to promote in the long run the
fullest productive capacity of business in all its many
tion (except as may be temporarily required), to increase the consumption of industrial and agricultural products by increasing purchasing
power, to reduce and relieve unemployment, to improve standards of

labor, and otherwise to rehabilitate industry and to conserve natural
resources."
The Act as a whole is entitled as one "To encourage national industrial recovery, to foster fair competition, and to provide for the construction of certain useful public works, and for other purposes ";
and the heading of Title L .which includes §§ 1 to 10, is " Industrial
Recovery."

PANAMA REFINING CO. V'. RYAN.
388

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

branches, for the effect of present practices is to diminish
that capacity by demoralizing prices and thus increasing
unemployment. The ascertainment'of these facts at any
time or place was a task too intricate and special to be
performed by Congress itself through a general enactment
in advance of the event. All that Congress could safely do
was to declare the act to be done and the policies to be
promoted, leaving to the delegate of its power the ascertainment of thd shifting facts that would determine'the
relation between the doing of the act and the attainment
of the stated ends. That is what it did. It said to the
President in substance: You are to consider whether- the
transportation of oil in excess of the statutory quotas is
offensive to one or more of the policies enumerated in § 1,
whether the effect of.such conduct is to promote unfair
competition or towaste the natural resources or to demoralize price$ op,to increase unemployment or to reduce
the purchasing power of the workers of the nation. If
these standards or some of them have been flouted with
the result of a substantial obstruction to industrial re-:
covery, you may then by a prohibitory order eradicate
the mischief.
I am not unmindful of the argument that the President
has the privilege of choice between one standard and
another, acting or failing to act according to an estimate
of values that is individual and personal. To describe his
conduct thus is to ignore the essence. of his function.
What he does is to inquire into the industrial facts as they
exist from time to time. Cf. Hampton & Co. v. United
States, 276 U. S. 394, at p. 409; Locke's Appeal, 72 Penn.
St.. 491, 498, quoted with approval in Field v. Clark, 143
U. S. 649, at p. 694. These being ascertained, he is not
to prefer one standard to another in any subjective attitude of mind, in any personal or wilful way. He is to
study the facts. objectively, the violation of a standard

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

293 U. S.

impelling him to action or inaction according to its observed effect upon industrial recovery,-the ultimate end,
as appears by the very heading of the title, to which all
the other ends are tributary and mediate. Nor is there
any essential conflict among the standards inter se, at all
events when they are viewed in relation to § 9 (c) and
the power there conferred. In its inmediacy, the exclusion of oil from the channels of transportation is a restriation of interstate commerce, not a removal of obstructions. This is self-evident, and, of course, was understood by Congress when the discretionary power of exclusidn was given to its delegate. But what is restriction in its immediacy may in its ultimate and larger
consequences be expansion and development. Congress
was aware that for the recovery of national well-being
there might be need of temporary restriction upon production in one industry or another. It said so in § 1. When
it clothed the President with power to impose such a restriction-to prohibit the flow of oil illegally producedit laid upon him a mandate to inquire and determine
whether the conditions in that particular industry were"
such at any given time as to make restriction helpful to
the declared objectives of the act and to the ultimate
attainment of industrial recovery. If such a situation
does not present an instance of lawful delegation in a
typical and classic form (Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649;
United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506; Hampton &
Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 394), categories long established will have to be formulated anew.
In what has been written, I have stated, but without
developing the argument, that by reasonable implication
the power conferred upon the President by § 9 (c) is to
be read as if coupled with the words that he shall exer'cise the power whenever satisfied that by doing so he will
effectuate the policy of the statute as theretofore declared.
Two canons of interpretation, each familiar to our law,

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

Camwozo. J., dissenting.

leave no escape from that conclusion. One is that the
meaning of a statute is to be looked for, not in any single
section, but in all the parts together and in their relation
to the end in view. Cherokee Intermarriage Cases, 203
U. S. 76, 89; McKee v. United States, 164 U. S. 287; Talbott v. Silver Bow County, 139 U. S. 438, 443, 444. The
other is that when a statute is reasonably susceptible of'
two interpretations, by one of which it is unconstitutional
and by the other valid, the court prefers the meaning that
preserves to the meaning that destroys. United States v.
Delaware& Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 407; Knights Templars' Indemnity Co. v. Jarman, 187 U.. S. 197, 205.
Plainly, § 1, with its declaration of the will of Congress, is
the chart that has been furnished t,, the President to
enable him to Shape his course among the reefs and shallows of this act. If there could be doubt as to this when
§ 1 is viewed alone, the doubt would be dispelled by the reiteration of the policy in the sections that come later. In
§ 2, which relates to administrative agencies, in § 3, which
relates to Codes of Fair Competition, in § 4, which relates
to agreements and licenses, in § 6, which prescribes limitations upon the application of the statute, and in § 10
which permits the adoption of rules and regulations, authority is conferred upon the President to do one or more
acts as the delegate of Congress when he is satisfied that
thereby he will aid "in effectuating the policy of this
title " or in carrying out its provisions. True § 9, the one
relating to petroleum, does not by express words of reference embody the same standard, yet nothing different
can have been meant. What, indeed, is the alternative?
Either the statute means that the President is to adhere
to the declared policy of Congress, or it means that he is
to exercise a merely arbitrary will. The one construction
invigorates the act; the other saps its life. A choice
between them is not hard.

.OCTOBER TERM, 1934.'
CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

293 U.S.

I am persuaded that a reference, express or implied, to
the policy of Congress as declared in § 1 is a sufficient
definition of a standard to make the statute valid. Discretion is not unconfined and vagrant. It is canalized
within banks that keep it from overflowing.- Field v.
Clark, 143 U. S..649; United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S.
506, and Hampton & Co. v. United States, 276 U. S.394,
state the appicable principle. -Under these decisions the
separation of powers between the Executive and Congress is not a doctrinaire concept to be made use of with
pedantic rigor. There must be sensible approximation,
there must be elasticity of adjustment, in response to the
practical necessities of government, which cannot foresee
today the developments of tomorrow in their nearly infinite variety. The Interstate Commerce Commission,
probing the economic situation of the railroads of the
country, consolidating them into systems, shaping in
numberless ways their capacities and duties, and even
making or unmaking the prosperity of great communities
(Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. United States, 289 U. S. 627),
is a conspicuous illustration. See, e. g., 41 Stat. 479482, c. 91, §§ 405, 406, 407, 408; 42 Stat. 27, c. 20; 49
U. S. C. §§ 3, 4, 5. Cf. Intermountain Rate Cases, 234
U. S. 476;.N. Y. Central Securities Corp. v. United States,
287 U. S.12, 24, 25; Sharfman, The Interstate Commerce
Commission, vol. 2, pp. 357, 365. There could surely be
no question as to the validity of an act whereby carriers
would be prohibited from transporting oil produced in
contravention of a statute if in the' judgment of the commission the Practice. was demoralizing the market and
bringing disorder and insecurity into the national economy. What may be delegated to a commission may be
delegated to thei President. "Congress may feel itself
unable conveniently to determine exactly when its exercise of the legislative power should become effective,
because dephndent on future conditions, and it may leave

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

the determination of such time to the discretion of the
executive." Hampton & Co. v. United Slates, supra, at
p. 407. Only recently (1932) the whole subject was discussed with much enlightenment in the Report by the
Committee on Ministers' Powers to the Lord Chancellor
of Great Britain. See especially, pp. 23. 51. In the
complex life of today, the business of government could
not go on without the delegation, in greater or less degree, of the power to adapt the rule to the swiftly moving
facts.
A striking illustration of this need is found in the very
industry affected by this section, the production of petroleum and its transportation between the states. At the
passage of the National Recovery Act no one could be
certain how many of the states would adopt valid quota
laws, or how generally the laws would be observed W.hen
adopted, or to what extent illegal practices would affect
honest competitors or the stability of prices or the conservation of natural resources or the return of industrial
prosperity. Much would depend upon conditions as they
shaped themselves thereafter. Violations of the state laws
might turn out to be so infrequent that the honest competitor would suffer little, if any, damage. The demand
for oil might be so reduced that there would be no serious
risk of waste, depleting or imperilling the resources of the
nation. Apart from these possibilities the business might
become stabilized through voluntary coperation or the
adoption of a code or otherwise. Congress not unnaturally was unwilling to attach to the state laws a sanction
so extreme as the cutting off of the privilege of interstate
commerce unless the need for such action had unmistakably developed. What was left to the President was to
ascertain the conditions prevailing in the industry, and
prohibit or fail to prohibit according to the effect of those
conditions upon the phases of the national policy relevant
thereto.

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CAiwzo, J., dissenting.

293 U. S.

From a host of precedents available, both legislative
and judicial, I cite a few as illustrations. By an act approved June 4, 1794, during the administration of Washington (1 Stat. 372; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 683)
Congress authorized the President, when Congress was not
in session, and for a prescribed period "whenever, in
his opinion, the public safety shall so require, to lay an
embargo on all ships and vessels in the ports of the United
States, 'or upon the ships and vessels of the United States,
or the ships and vessels of any foreigA nation, under such
regulations as the circumstances of the case may require, and to continue or revoke the same, whenever he
shall think proper." By an act of. 1799, February 9 (1
Stat. 613, 615) suspending commercial intercourse with
France and its dependencies; "'it shall be lawful for the
President of the United States, if he shall deem it expedient and consistent with the interest of the United
States, by his order to remit, and discontinue, for the time
being, the restraints and prohibitions aforesaid, . . . and
also.to revoke such order,: [i. e., re~stablish the restraints]
whenever, in his opinion, the interest of the United States
shall require." By an ait of October 1, 1890 (26 Stat.'
567, 612), sustained in Field v. Clark, szpra, the President
was authorized to, suspend by proclamation the free introduction into this country of enumerated articles when
satisfied that a: country producing them imposes duties
or other exactions upon the agricultural or other products of the United States which he may deem to b reciprocally .unequal or unreasonable. By an-act of September 21, 1922, (42 Stat. 858, 941, 945), sustained in Hampton & Co. v. United States; supra, the President was empowered to increase or decrease tariff duties so as to
equalize the differences between the costs of production
at home and abroad, and empowered, by the same means,
to give redress for other acts of discrimination or unfairness "when he finds that the pubiic inteest will be

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

served thereby." Delegation was not confined to an inquiry into the necessity or occasion for the change. It
included the magnitude of the change, the delegate thus
defining the act to be performed. By an act of June 4,
1897 (30 Stat. 11, 35), amended in 1905 (33 Stat. 628),
regulating the forest reservations of the nation, the purpose of the reservations was declared to be "to improve
and protect the forest within the reservation," 4nd to
secure " favorable conditions of water flows, and to furnish
a continuous supply of lumber for the use and necessities
of citizens of the United States." Without further guide
or standard, the Secretary of Agriculture was empowered
to "make such rules and regulations and establish such
service as will insure the objects 'of such reservations,
namely, to regulate their occupancy and use and to preserve the forests thereon from destruction." The validity
of these provisions was upheld ih United States v. Grimaud, supra,as against the claim by one who violated the
rules that there had been an unlawful delegation. Many
other precedents are cited in the margin.' They teach
one lesson and a clear one.
There is no fear that the nation will drift from its
ancient moorings as the result of the narrow delegation
of power permitted by this section. What can be done
under cover of that permission is closely and clearly circumscribed both as to subject matter and occasion. The
statute was framed in the shadow of a national disaster.
A host of unforeseen contingencies would have to be
faced from day to day, and faced with a fulness of under2 Stat. 411, December 19, 1806;, 3 Stat. 224, March 3, 1815; 23
Stat. 31, 32, May 29, 1884; 25 Stat. 659, February 9, 1889; 38 Stat.
717, September 26, 1914; 41 Stat. 593, May 10, 1920; Williams v.
United States, 138 U. S. 514; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470;
Interhountain Rate Cases, 234 U. S. 476; Mahler v. Eby, 264 U. S.
32. Cf. Emergency Banking Act of March 9,.1933; 48 Stat. 1; Agricultural Adjustment Act of May 12, 1933; 48 Stat. 51, 53, § 43.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

293 U. S.

standing unattainable by any one except the man upon
the scene. The President was chosen to meet the instant
need.
A subsidiary question remains as to the form of the
executive order, which is copied in the margin.'
The
question is a subsidiary one, for unless the statute is
invalid, another order with fuller findings or recitals may
correct the informalities of this one, if informalities there
are. But the order to my thinking is valid as it stands.
The President was not required either by the Constitution or by any statute to state the reasons that had induced him to exercise the granted power. It is enough
that the grant of power had been made and that pursuant
to that grant he had signified the will to act. The will to
act being declared, the law presumes that the declaration
was preceded by due inquiry and that it was rooted in
sufficient grounds. Such, for a hundred years and more,
has been the doctrine of this court. The act of February
28, 1795 (1 Stat. 424), authorized the President "whenever the United States shall be invaded, or be in imminent danger of invasion from any foreign nation or Indian tribe," to call forth" such number of the militia of
the states as he shall deem necessary and to issue his
"Executive Order. Prohibition of Transportation in Interstate
and Foreign Commerce of Petroleum and the Products Thereof

Unlawfully Produced or Withdrawn from Storage. By virtue of the
authority vested in me by the Act of Congress entitled 'AN AcT To
encourage national industrial recovery, to foster fair competition, and
to provide for the construction of certain useful public works, and for
cther purposes,' approved June 16, 1933, (Public No. 67, 73d Congress), the transportation in interstate and foreign commerce of petroleum and the products thereof produced or withdrawn from storage
in excess of the amount permitted to be produced or withdrawn from
storage by any State law or valid regulation or order prescribed thereunder, by any board, commission, officer, or othar duly authorized
agency of a State, is hereby prohibited. Franklin D. Roosevelt. The
White House, July L, 1933."

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

orders to the appropriate officers for that purpose. Cf.
Constitution, Article I, clause 15. When war threatened
in the summer of 1812, President Madison acting under
the authority of that statute directed Major General
Dearborn to requisition from New York, Massachusetts
and Connecticut certain numbers of the states', militia.
American State Papers, Military Affairs, vol. 1, pp. 322-5.
No finding of "imminent danger of invasion " was made
by the President in any express way, nor was such a
finding made by the Secretary of War or any other official. The form of the requisitions to Massachusetts and
Connecticut appears in the state papers of the government (American State Papers, supra); the form of those
to New York was almost certainly the same. Replevin
was brought by a New York militiaman who refused to
obey the orders, and whose property -had been taken in
payment of a fine imposed by a court-martial. The defendant, a deputy marshal, defended on the ground that
the orders were valid, and the plaintiff demurred because
there was no allegation that the President had adjudged
that there was imminent danger of an invasion. The case
came to this court. Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19. In an
opinion by Story, J., the court upheld the seizure. "The
argument is, [he wrote] that the power confided to the
President is a limited power, and can be exercised only in
the cases pointed out in the statute, and therefore, it is
necessary to aver the facts which bring the exercise within
the purview of the statute. In short, the same principles are sought to be applied to the delegation and exercise of this power intrusted to the Executive of the nation
for great political purposes, as might be applied to the
humblest officer in the government, acting upon the most
narrow and special authority. It is the opinion of the
Court, that this objection cannot be maintained. When
the Presient exercises an authority confided to him by
law, the presumption is, that it is exercised in pursuance

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CARDoZO,

J., diLsenting.

293 U. S.

of law. Every public officer is presumed to act in obedience to his duty, until the contrary is shown; and, a
fortiori, this presumption ought to be favourably applied
to the chief magistrate of the Union. It is not -necessary
t6 aver, that the act which he may rightfully do, was so
done." A like presumption has been applied in other
cases and in a great variety of circumstances. Philadelphia & Trenton R. Co. v. Stimpson, 14 Pet. 448, 458;
Rankin v.Hoyt, 4 How. 327, 335; Carpenterv. Rannels,
19 Wall. 138, 146; The Confiscation Cases, 20 Wall. 92,
109; Knox County v. Ninth National Bank, 147 U. S. 91,
97; United States v. Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S. 1,
14, 15. This does not mean that the individual is helpless in the face of usurpation. A court will not revise the
discretion of the Executive, sitting in judgment on his
order as if it were the verdict of a jury. Martin v. Mott,
supra. On the other hand, we have said that his order
may not stand if it, is an act of mere oppression, an arbitrary fiat that overleaps the bounds of judgment. Sterling v. Constantin, 287 U. S. 378, 399, 400, 401. The complainants and others in their position may show, if they,
can, that in no conceivable aspect was there anything in
the conditions of the oil industry in July, 1933, to establish a connection between the prohibitory order and the
declared policies of the Congress. This is merely to say
that the standard must be such as to have at least a possible relation to the act to be performed under the delegated power. One can hardly suppose that a prohibitory
.order would survive a test in court if the Executive were
to assert a relation between the transportation of petroleum and the maintenance, of the gold standard or the
preservation of peace in Europe or the Orient. On the
other hand, there can be no challenge of such a mandate
unless the possibility of a rational nexus is lacking alto-

PANAMA REFINING CO. v. RYAN.
388

CARDozo, J., dissenting.

gether. Here, in the case at hand, the relation between

the order and the standard is manifest upon the face of
the transaction from facts so notorious as to be- within
the range of our judicial notice. There is significance in
the fact that it is not challenged even now.
The President, when acting in the exercise of a delegated power, is not a quasi-judicial officer, whose rulings
are subject to review upon certiorari or appeal (Chicago
Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 265; cf. Givens v. Zerbst, 255
U. S. 11, 20), or an administrative agency supervised in
the same way. Qfficers and bodies such as those may be
required by reviewing courts to express their decision in
formal and explicit findings to the end that review may
be intelligent. Florida v. United States, 282 U. S.. 194,
215; Beaumont, Sour Lake & Western Ry. Co. v. United
States, 282 U. S. 74, 86; United States v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co., post, p. 454. Cf. Public Service Commission

of Wisconsin v. Wisconsin Telephone Co., 289 U. S. 67.
Such*is not the position or duty of the President. He is
the Chief Executi're of the nation, exercising a power committed to him by Congress, and subject, in respect of the
formal qualities of his acts, to the restrictions, if any, accompanying the grant, but not to any others. One will
not find such restrictions either in the statute itself or in
the Constitution back of it. The Constitution of the
United States is not a code of civil practice.
The prevailing opinion cites Wichita Railroad &. Light

Co. V. Public Utilities Commission of Kanas, 260 U. S.
48, and Mahler v. Eby, 264 U. S. 32, 44.. One dealt with
a delegation to a public utilities commission of the power
to reduce existing rates if they were found to be unreasonable; the other a delegation to the Secretary of Labor
of the power to deport aliens found after notice and a
hearing to be undesirable residents. In each it was a

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
CAP.DOZO,

J., dissenting.

293 U. S.

specific requirement of the. statute that the basic fact
conditioning action by the -administrative agency be
stated in a finding and stated there expresAly. If legislative power is delegated subject to a condition, it is a
requirement of constitutional government that the condition be fulfilled. In default of such fulfilment, there
is in truth no delegation, andhence no official action, but
only the vain show of it. The analogy is remote between
power so conditioned and that in controversy here.
Discretionary action does not become subject to revievw
because the discretion is legislative rather than executive.
If the reasons for the prohibition now in controversy
had been stated in the ordei, the jurisdiction of the courts
wpuld have been -no greater and no less. Investigation
resulting in an order directed against a particular person
after notice and a hearing is not to be confused with
investigation preliminary and incidental to the formulation of a rule. An"embargo under the act of 1794 would
have been more than a nullity though there had been a'
failure to recite that what was done was essential to the
public safety or to enumerate the reasons leading to that
conclusion. If findiygs are necessary as a preamble to
general regulations, the requirement must be looked for
elsewhere than in the Constitution of the nation.
There are other questions as to the validity of -§ 9 (c)
in matters unrelated to the delegation of power to the
President, and also questions as 'to the Regulations
adopted in behalf of the President by the Secretary of
the Interior. They are not considered in the prevailing
opinion. However, they have been well reviewed and
disposed of in the opinion of- Sibley, J., writing for the
court below. It is unnecessary at this time to dwell
upon them further.
The decree in each case should bb affirmed.

