GREGORY v. HELVERING.
454

465

Syllabus.

the reviewing court; compare Virginian Ry. v. United
Slates, 272 U. S. 658, 675, is not fatal to the validity of the
order. It is true that formal and precise findings are not
required, under § 14 (1) of the Tnterstate Commerce Act,
which declares that the report "shall state the conclusions
of the Commission together with its decision." ' Compare
Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S. 457,
487; Meeker & Co. v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 236 U. S.
412, 428. That provision relieves the Commission from
making comprehensive findings of fact similar to those
required by Equity Rule 701/2. But § 14 (1) does not
remove the necessity of making,. where orders are subject
to judicial review, quasi-jurisdictional findings essential
to their constitutional or statutory validity.'

Affirmed.
GREGORY u.'HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 127.

Argued December 4, 5, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.

1. A corporation wholly owned by a taxpayer transferred 1000
shares of stock in another corporation held by it among its assets
to a new corporation, which thereupon issued all of its shares to the
The original Act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, § 14, 24 Stat. 384,
which had prescribed that the report should "include findings of
fact upon which the conclusions of the Commission are based," was
amended by § 3 of the Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 589,
so as to require (except in reparation cases) that it -hall make a
report "which sha state the conclusions of the commission together
with its decision, order, or requirement in the premises."
'A different rule has been applied to executive action not subject
to review. Compare Philadelphia & Trenton *R. Co. v. Stimpson,
14 Pet. 448, 458; United Stdtes v. Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S.
1, 14-15.

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Counsel for Parties.

293 U. S.

taxpayer. Within a few days the new corporation was dissolved
and was liquidated by the distribution of the 1000 shares to the
taxpayer, who immediately sold them for her individual profit. No
other business was transacted, or intended to be transacted,
by the
new corporation. The whole plan was designed to conform to § 112
of the Revenue Act of 1928 as a " reorganization," but for the
sole purpose of transferring the shares in question to the taxpayer,
with a resulting tax liability less than that which would have ensued
from a direct transfer by way of dividend. Held: while the plan
conformed to the terms of the statute, there was no reorganization
within the intent of the statute. P. 468.
2. By means which the law permits, a taxpayer has the right to decrease the amount of what otherwise would be his taxes, or altogether to avoid them. P. 469.
3. The rule which excludes from consideration the motive of tax
avoidance is not pertinent to the situation here, because the transaction upon its face lies outside ihe plain intent of th4 statute.
P. 470.
69 F. (2d) 809, affirmed.
CERTIORARI * to review a judgment reversing a decision
of the Board of Tax Appeals, 27 B. T. A. 223, which set
aside an order of the Commissioner determining a deficiency in income tax.
Mr. Hugh Satterlee, with whom Messrs. George W.
Saam, Rollin Browne, and Charles A. Roberts were on

the brief, for petitioner.
Solicitor General Biggs, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Wideman and Messrs. Sewall Key and Norman

D. Keller were on the brief, for respondent.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Messrs. Ellsworth C. Alvord and Edward H. McDermott,

and by Messrs.Albert E. James, A. Calder Mackay, George
M.

Morris; Willis D. Nance, Charles B. Rugg, Whitney

North Seymour, and Harry N. Wyatt, in support of petitioner's contentions.
* See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

GREGORY v. HELVERING.
465

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHLIRLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner in 1928 was the owner of all the stock of
United Mortgage Corporation. That corporation held
among its assets 1,000 shares of the Monitor Securities
Corporation. For the sole purpose of procuring a transfer
of these shares to herself in order to sell them for her individual profit, and, at the same time, diminish the amount
of income tax which would result from a direct transfer
by way of dividend, she sought to bring about a "reorganization " under § 112 (g) of the Revenue Act of 1928,
c. 852, 45 Stat. 791, 818, set forth later in this opinion.
To that end, she caused the Averill Corporation to be organized under the laws of Delaware on September 18,
1928. Three days later, the United Mortgage Corporation transferred to the Averill Corporation the 1,000 shares
of Monitor st6ck, for which all the shares of the Averill
Corporation were issued to the petitioner. On September
24, the Averill Corporation was dissolved, and liquidated
by distributing all its assets, namely, the Monitor shares,
to the.petitioner. No other business was ever transacted,
or intended to be transacted, by that company. Petitioner
immediately sold the Monitor shares for $133,333.33. She
returned for taxation as capital net gain the sum of
$76,007.88, based upon an apportioned cost of $57,325.45.
Further details are unnecessary. It is not disputed that
if the interposition of the so-called reorganization was
ineffective, petitioner became liable for a much larger tax
as a result of the transaction.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, being of opinion that the reorganization attempted was without substance and must be disregarded, held that petitioner was
liable for a tax as though the United corporation had paid
her a dividend consisting of the amount realized from the
le of the Monitor shares. In a proceeding before the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

Board of Tax Appeals, that body rejected the commissioner's view and upheld thaktof petitioner. 27 B. T. A.
223. Upon a review of the latter decision, the circuit court
of appeals sustained the commissioner and reversed the
board, holding that there had been no "reorganization "
within the meaning of the statute. 69 F. (2d) 809. Petitioner applied to this court for a writ of certiorari, which
the government,, considering the question one of importance, did not oppose. We granted the writ.
Section 112 of the Revenue Act of 1928 deals with the
subject of gain or loss resulting from the sale or exchange
of property. Such gain or loss is to be recognized in computing the tax, except as provided in that section. The
provisions of the section, so.faLr as they are pertinent to
the question here presented, follow:
"Sec. 112. (g) Distribution of stock on reorganization.-If there is distributed, in pursuance of a plan of
reorganization, to a shareholder in a corporation a party
to the reorganization, stock or securities in such corporation or in another corporation a party to the reorganization, without the surrender by such shareholder of stock
or securities in such a corporation, no gain to the distributee from the receipt of such stock or securities shall be
recognized ...
"(i) Definition of reorganization.-Asused in this section . . .
"(1) The term 'reorganization'
means . . . (B) a
transfer by a corporation of all or a part of its assets to
another corporation if immediately after the transfer the
transferor or its stockholders or both are in *control of the
corporation to which the assets are transferred, . . ."
It is earnestly contended on behalf of the taxpayer that
since every element required by the foregoing subdivision
(B) is to be found in what was done, a statutory reorganization was effected; and that the motive of the taxpayer
thereby to escape payment of a tax will not alter the result

GREGORY v. HELVERING.
465

Opinion of the Court.

or make unlawful what the statute allows. It is quite true
that if a reorganization in reality was effected within the
meaning of subdivision (B), the ulterior purpbse mentioned will be disregarded. The legal right of a taxpayer
to decrease the amount of what otherwise would be his
taxes, or altogether avoid them, by means which the law
permits, cannot be doubted. United States v. Isham, 17
Wall. 496, 506; Superior Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 280 U. S.
390, 395-6; Jones v.Helvering, 63 App. D. C. 204; 71 F.
(2d) 214, 217. But the question for determination is
whether'what was done, .apart from the tax motive, was
the thing which the statute intended. The reasoning of
the court below in justification of a negative answer leaves
little to be said.
When subdivision (B) speaks of a transfer of assets by
one corporation to another, it means a transfer made "in
pursuance of .aplan of reorganization" [§ 112(g)] of
corporate business; and not a transfer of assets by one
corporation to another in pursuance of a plan having no
relation to the business of either, as plainly is the case
here. Putting aside, then, the question of motive in respect of taxation altogether, and fixing the character of
the proceeding by what actually occurred, what do we
find? Simply an operation having no business or. corporate purpose-a mere device which put on the form of a
corporate reorganization as a disguise for concealing its
real character, and the sole object and accomplishment
of which was the consummation of a preconceived plan,
not to reorganize a business or any part 'f a business, but
to transfer a parcel of corporate shares to the petitioner.
No doubt, a new and valid corporation was created. But
that corporation was nothing more than a contrivance to
the end last described. It was brought into existence for
no other purpose' it performed, as it was intended from
the beginning it should perform, no other function.

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

*When that limited function had been exercised, it immediately was put to death.
.In these circumstances, the facts speak for themselves
and are susceptible of but one interpretation. The whole
undertaking, though ronducted according to the terms of
subdivision (B), was in fact an elaborate and devious
form of conveyance masquerading as a corporate reorganization, and nothing else. T~ie rule which excludes
from consideration the motive of tax avoidance is not
pertinent to the situation, because the transaction upon
its face lies outside the plain intent of the statute. To
hold otherwise would be to exalt artifice above reality
and to deprive the statutory provision in question of all
serious purpose.
Judgment affirmed.
IN
TAYLOR v. STERNBERG, TRUSTEE
1
BANKRUPTCY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 261.

Argued December 14, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.

1. After the filing of a petition in bankruptcy against a corporation
in the federal district court, a state court is without jurisdiction to
make an order fixing the compensation of a receiver and his attorney theretofore appointed by it. P. 472.
2. In respect of sums thus erroneously awarded to and retained by the
receiver and his attorney, they are not " adverse" claimants, and
the bankruptcy court has authority to compel them to turn over
the same by summary proceeding and order. P. 473.
71 F. (2d) 157, affirmed.
'Together with No. 262, Duty v. Sternberg, Trustee in Bankrurptcy, certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit.

