386

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

District Court with direction to vacate its order for a
hearing in equity and to proceed with the trial of the
action at law.
Reversed.
ADAMOS v. NEW YORK LIFE INSIURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT CWURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 452. Argued

)teeiber 3, 19,4.-..I)ecued Jaimt.

Deciaed on thi ,udiwity oi E,'.

y 7, 1935

. Ae. York Lqe ln.. Co.,

ante, p. 379

71 F. (2d) 997, reverbed.
('ERTIOR,RI *

Of the Distritc
c'al hiSulraunc

the dfflriaticd of a finui deeieu
5 11. Supt, , Z76, z6o, ca,icelig 6ev-

tevlew

'Uurt

lhiic+ iaii

tif,'tlig

tol

la-ylilellt Of

div inputas reiderved on an equianice companies. Tht; decree
table defciisu set up uidur Jui. ('ode . 274b., ii an action
by the benefitiaiy to C.,llect trie policies.
the

prvIIlnmb, vhii ,1 diuei le,

eoU back uj

Mr. CharlesH. Sachb with whom Mr.Lou

Caplan wa,

on the Irief fot petiiiorier..
Mr. William H Eci ert. with wh,ar, Mr. Louis H. CooJke
was on the brief, for re por,dent
NIB CiI
the Cuurt.

JUTI'EI(:E I,

Petitioner br,,ugrat thib action

delivered the'opimion of

at

1ttaw aj beneficiary of

several policies ,,f iisuiance issued by respoidetit. The
policies were alleged to itVw beei issued irk April, 1932..

upon the life of petitioner's f-thei, v¢hu died In July,
1932. The liolicies wete to be incoiatatble after two
*

See 'rable of Caots lRpik.oteu ii. Lhii

' ,,.ine.

ADAMOS v. N. Y. LIFE INS. CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

years from date of issue. The action -was brought in a
state court in Pennsylvania and was removed to the federal court in February, 1933. Respondent's affidavit of
defense set up as new matter that the insured had made
false answers and declarations in his application with
respect to a surgical operation he had undergone and to
the treatment he had received by physicians and at hospitals; that the insured knew that these answers and
declarations were false; and that they had been made
by the insured "fraudulently with the intent of deceiving the defendant into issuing to him the policies of insurance in litigation, when the facts were such that if he
had answered said questions truthfully and had made a
full and honest disclosure, the defendant would not have
issued any of said policies, but would have declined his
application?' Respondent tendered judgment for the
amount of the premiums received by it, with interest,
and prayed that the policies be cancelled.. Petitioner replied, denying the allegations of. fraud.
Respondent asked that the equitable issue raised by its
affidavit of defense should be heard under § 274b of the
Judicial Code (28 U. S. C. 398) "by a chancellor according to equity procedure in advance of the trial by jury at
law of any purely legal issues." The application was
granted over petitioner's objection, and the issue of fraud
was tried in equity. The District Judge decided that it
was "a very plain case of fraud upon the insurance company," that the insured had "falsely answered the questions as to his medical history," and that " these questions were all as to matters of fact within his knowledge."
5 F. Supp. 278, 280, 1019.
Decree was entered cancelling the policies and providing
for the repayment of the premiums tendered. The decree
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 71 F. (2d)
997, and this Court granted certiorari.

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
293 U. S.

Syllabus.

What we have said in Enelow v. New York Life Ins. Co.,
decided this day, ante, p. 379, is directly applicable here.
The issue of fraud raised by respondent's affidavit of defense was fully available in the action at law and the court
erred in directing the trial of that issue in equity.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded to the District Court with. direction to vacate its decree and to proceed with the trial
of the action at law.
Reversed.
PANAMA REFINING CO.

ET AL.

AMAZON PETROLEUM CORP.

v. RYAN

ET AL. V.

ET AL.

RYAN ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 135 and 260.

Argued December 10, 11, 1934.-Decided
January 7, 1935.

1. Upon review of a decree affirming the validity of an executive
regulation, and refusing to enjoin its enforcement, rendered in a
suit begun and ended below after the regulation had been withdrawn, the question of validity does not cease to he moot because
the regulation has since been reinstated and the Government has
declared its intention to enforce it from the time of reinstatement.
P. 412.
2. A suit to enjoin the enforcement of executive regulations is not
made moot by amendments of the regulations, adopted pending
the litigation, which continue in force the requirements complained
of and present the same constitutional question as before. P. 413.
3. Section 9 (c) of the National Industrial Recovery Act, purporting
to authorize the President to prohibit the transporLation in interstate and foreign commerce of petroieum and the products thereof
produced or withdrawn from storage in excess of the amounts permitted by state authority, attaches criminal penalties to every
violation of such an order; and persons who would thus become
subject to repeated penalties in carrying on their business are en-

