MATTSON v. DEPT. OF LABOR.
144

Syllabus.

come devoted to charity and the reduction of the ra-te of
tax on capital gains were liberalizations of the law in
the taxpayer's favor, were begotten from motives of public policy, and are not to be narrowly construed. Nor
should the reduction in the rate of tax on capital gain,
first granted in the Revenue Act of 1921, be held to circumscribe the privilege granted in the earlier Acts, and
retained in later ones, with respect to charitable contributions, unless that result be plainly required by the language used. As has been shown the statutes if read as
written lead to a contrary result. Moreover, from 1923
to 1932 the Commissioner uniformly ruled that the deduction for charitable cortributions was to be taken from
net income before computation of the tax and hence in
whole from ordinary net income.8 The reenactment in
later Acts of the sections permitting the deduction indicate Congressional approval of this administrative interpretation.
The judgments are
Affirmed.

MATTSON v. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND
INDUSTRIES OF WASHINGTON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 29.

Argued October 18, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

1. The amendment of March 15, 1927, to the compulsory Workmen's
Compensation Act of the State of Washington, limiting to three
years the time within which a case may be reopened fdr the readjustment of compensation on account of. the aggravation, diminution, or termination of the disability, does not deny due process of
law to one who sustained a compensable injury while the preexisting statute was in effect, though the latter contained no
limitation as to the time within which such right might be asserted.
P. 154.
8 See Corp. Trust Co., Fed. Inc. Tax Service, 1924, Par. 2033; I. T.
2104, Cum. Bull. 111-2, p. 152;' Mim. 3931, XI-1, C. B. 33.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 If. S

2. The amendment did not deprive the claimant in this case oi any
vested right, but affecied the remedy only, and that in a ,s rnet
.notinreasonable, ,rbifrary, or oppressivp. P. 155
3. A State may impose reasonable conditions upon the assertion of
rights which are purely statutory. P. 154.
176 Wash. 345: 29 P. (2d) 675, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment affirming a judgment which
dismissed an appeal from an order of the state administrative board.
Mr. Harry E. Foster for appellant.
Mr. Daniel Baker and Mr. Miles H. McKey, Assiqtant
Attorney General of Oregon, with whom Mr. G. W.
Hamilton. Attorney General of Washington,. and Mi s
Dorothee Scarbrough were on the brief, for appellee.
By leave of Court, Mr. I. H. Van Winkle, Attorney
General, Mr. Miles H. McKey and Mr. Victor R. Griggs,
Assistant Attorneys General, filed a brief on behalf of the
Industrial Accident Commission of Oregon, as amicu8
curiae.
MR. JusTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
- Court.

Since 1911 the State of Washington has had a workmen's compensation act applicable to extrahazardous
employments. Until March 15, 1927, the statute contained a section providing:
" If aggravation, diminution, or termination of
disability takes place or be discovered after the rate of compensation shall have been established or compensation
terminated in any case the department may, upon the application of the beneficiary or. upon itq own motion, readjust for further applicatic-ei the rate of coinpensation

MATTSON v. DEPT. OF LABOR.
151

Opinion of the Court.

in -accordance with the rules in this section provided for
the same, or in a proper case terminate the payments."'
On February 7, 1927, while the quoted section was in
force, the appellant injured his arm while doing extrahazardous work. March 15, 1927 the law was amended
and the section in question was altered to provide:
"If aggravation, diminution, or termination of disability takes place or be discovered after the rate of compensation shall have been established or compensation
terminated, in any case the director of labor and industries, through and by means of the division of industrial
insurance, may, upon the, application of the beneficiary,
made within three years after the establishment or termination of such compensation, or upon his own motion,
readjust for further application the rate of compensation
in accordance with the rules in this section provided for
the same, or in a proper case terminate the payment: Provided, Any such applicant whose compensation has heretofore been established or terminated shall have three
years from the taking effect of this act within which to
apply for such readjustment." 2 (Italics supplied.)
Pursuant to a claim duly presented to the appellee, the
appellant was -paid from the State workmen's insurance
fund on January 17, 1928, the sum of $240 in final settlement'-for permanent partial disability and the case was
closed. May 10, 1933 he filed with the appellee a petition
for reopening of his claim on the. ground that his condition had become aggravated due to the injury. The
appellee dismissed the petition for the reason that the
"Session Laws, 1911, c. 74, § 5 (h), p. 360; Session Laws, 1923,
136, § 2 (h), p. 397. The only change made in the quoted paragi .ph by the Act of 1923 was the substitution of the word "further"
ior the word ""future.-"
2 Session Laws, 1927, c. 310, § 4 (h), p. 844; Rem. ReV. Stat.

§ 7679 (h).

. OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

three year statute of limitations barred the claim. An
appeal to the Supreme Court of Thurston County was
dismissed, and the Supreme Court of the State affirmed
the judgment. The case is here on appeal.
: The appellant insists that at the, date of his injury the
statute conferred upon him not only a right to make his
original claim and receive compensation, but a further
right to file an additional claim, without limit as to time,
and to .receive readjusted compensation for aggravation of
his condition due to his injury. This, he says,. is a vested
right, is property, and its enforcement may not be abolished or limited, consistently with the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution.'

The claim cannot be sustained.

Th Washington Workmen's Compensation Act is compulsory. In the exercise of the State's police power it
abolishes *common law actions for negligence, imposes
upon industry a levy calculated in accordance with the
risk of injtury to workmen, places the money collcted in
a state-administered fund, and substitutes for the employee's common law right of action a purely statutory
right to payment 'from tlie fund of a sum adjusted to the
character and extent of the injury.4
That the State may impose reasonable conditions upon
the assertion of the claim does not admit of argument.
Considerations justifying a reasonable limitation of time
within which further increase of compensation due to
aggravation of condition may be claimed are so obvious
:as hardly to require statement. Appellant does not urge
that the prescription of a period of three years for presenting such a claim is unreasonable, but that it is beyond the
s

Below and -in his assignments of error here the appellant asserted

the section offends Article I, § 10, but, at the bar, he abandoned this
contention, and we need not consider it.
See State ex rel. Davis-Smith Co. v. Clausen, 65 Wash. 156; 117
Pac. 1101; Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219.

WARNER v. GOLTRA.
151

Statement of the Case.

State's power. The section under attack merely limits the
time for the assertion of the right, affects the remedy
only, and that in a manner not unreasonable, arbitrary or
oppressive. Such a limitation of time within which appellant's remedy must be pursued does not deprive him of
due process.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

WARNER, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. GOLTRA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 4. Submitted October 8, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.
1. In § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, giving to "any
seaman" injured in the course of his employment a cause of action
for damages similar to that given by the statutes of the United
States to railway employees, the term " any seaman" includes the
master of the vessel. P. 156.
2. This provision should be construed liberally; "seaman" in this
particular context should be interpreted in. its broad sense, not in
the narrower sense distinguishing the crew from the master, found
in other statutes; and this accords with the purpose of the Act as
revealed by its history and by other legislation in pari materia.
Pp. 157-159.
3. Section 713, c. 18, of Title 46 of the U. S. Code, purporting to
define master and seaman, must be confined to the sections in chapter 18 which were derived from thE same earlier legislation as § 713;
it is. inapplicable to § 33 of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920,
placed in the same chapter 18 by 'the compilers of the Code.
P. 160.
4. The compilers of the U. S. Code were not authorized by Congress
to amend existing law. P. 161.
334 Mo. 396; 67 S.W. (2d) 47, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

292 U. S. 617, to review the affirmance of

a judgment dismissing the complaint in an action for
damages for the death of the master of a vessel. The

action was brought by the administratrix of the master
against the owner of the vessel..

