OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Statement of the Case.

293 U. S.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. STOCKHOLMS ENSKILDA BANK.
CERTIORARI 1'O THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
*THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 10.

Argued October 10, 11, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

1. Interest received by a foreign corporation from the United States
with a refund of income taxes, is Phterest on an " interest-bearing
obligation" of a " resident," within tnt meaning of § 217 (a) of the
Revenue Act of 1926. P. 86.
2. An obligation to refund taxes erroneously or illegally collected, upon
Wvhich, by express statutory direction, interest must be paid, is an
interest-bearing obligation. P. 86.
3. The presumption that identical words used in different parts of the
same Act are intended to have the same meaning, yields where
words susceptible of different shades of meaning are found in such
dissimilar connections as to show that the3", yere employed in different senses. P. 87.
4. Section 213 (b) (4) of the Revenue Act of 1926, providing that the
term gross income shall not include interest upon "obligations of
the United States," was designed to aid the borrowing power of the
Government by making its interest-bearing bonds attractive to investors, and the scope of the term must there be narrowed accordingly; but § 217 (a) is for the different purpose of producing revenue and must be construed from that standpoint. P. 91.
5. The United States is a "resident" within the meaning of the
phrase "residents, corporate or otherwise," in § 217 (a) of the
Revenue Act of 1926. P. 91.
6. The rule that taxing acts are to be construed strictly in favor of the
taxpayer can not be allowed to defeat the obvious legislative intent
when ascertained from the context and purpose of the statute and
other appropriate tests. P. 93.
62 App. D. C. 360; 68 F. (2d) 407, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

292 U. S. 618, io review the affirmance by

the Court ot Appeals of an order of the Board of Tax
Appeals avoiding a deficiency assessment of income taxes.

HELVERING v. STOCKHOLMS &c. BANK.
84

85

Opinion of the Court.

Assistant Solicitor General MacLean, with whom Solicitor General Biggs, Assistant Attorney General Wideman
and Messrs. James W. Morris, John H. McEvers, and
W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Truman Henson for respondent.

Opinion of the Court by MR.
announced by the CHIEF JUSTICE.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND,

Respondent, a foreign corporation having no. office or
place of business within the United States, received, during the year 1927, a refund of income taxes theretofore
paid, including interest thereon in the sum of $8,683.91.
In 1931, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue assessed
against respondent in respect of this interest a deficiency
of $1;172.32 upon its tax liability for the year 1927.
The Board of Tax Appeals, upon petition for a redeterinination; held that there was no deficiency and that the
commissioner was in error in so deciding. 25 B. T. A.
1328. Upon petition for review brought by the commissioner, the court below sustained the, action of the
board. 62 App. D. C. 360; 68 F. (2d) 407.
The case involves a consideration of certain provisions
of the Revenue Act of 1926. c. 27, 44 Stat. 9. Section
233 (b) of that act provides that, in the case of a foreign
corporation, -"gross income" means only gross income
from sources within the United States, determined in the
manner provided in § 217, the pertinent provisions of
which follow:
"SE c. 217. (a) In the case of a nonresident alien individual . . :, the following items of gross income shall be
treated as income from sources within, the United States:
. "(1) Interest on, bonds, notes, or other interest-bearing
*obligations of residents, corporate or otherwise, not including (A) interest on deposits with persons carrying on

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

the banking business paid to persons not engaged in business within the United States and not having an office or
place of business therein; ....
"(c) The following items of gross income shall be
treated as income from sources without the United States:
"(1) Interest other than that derived from sources
within the United States as provided in paragraph (1) of
subdivision (a); . .
The question for determination is whether the interest
paid upon the amount of the tax refund falls within the
classification, "interest on bonds, notes, or other interestbearing obligations of residents, corporate or otherwise."
The contention of respondent before the Board of Tax
Appeals and in the court below was, as it is here, that
such interest payment.was not within the reach of the
provisions of § 217 (a), because (1) it was not interest
upon an interest-bearing obligation, and- (2): the United
States is not a "resident" within the meaning of the
phrase "residents, corporate or otherwise."
First. If the words "interest-bearing obligations"
stood alone, there would be no room for doubt as to their
inclusive effect. Section 1111, 44 Stat. 115, Title 26,
U. S. C. App. § 149, authorizes the commissioner to refund and pay back all taxes illegally or erroneously
collected. The decision of the commissioner that a tax
has been illegally or erroneously collected necessarily
creates an obligation to make repayment. Section 1116
(a) of the Revenue Act of 1926, c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 119,
Title 26 U. S. C. App. § 153, provides that interest at the
rate of six per centum per annum from the date of the
payment of the tax to' the date of the allowance of th
refund shall be allowed and paid. Obviously, an Obligation upon which by express statutory direction interest
must be paid is an interest-bearing obligation.
The point is made, however, that the word "obligations," as it occurs in another part of the act, has been

HELVERING v. STOCKHOLMS &c. BANK.
84

87

Opinion of the Court.

given a narrower construction, and that this is persuasive
of the restricted meaning contended for here. That much
may be conceded, since "there is a natural presumption
that identical words used in different parts of the same act
are intended to have the same meaning." Atlantic
Cleaners & Dy.ers v. United States, 286 U. S. 427, 433.
But since most words admit of different shades of meaning, susceptible ofbeing expanded or abridged to conform
to the sense in which they are used, the presumption
readily yields to the controlling force of the circumstance
that the words, though in the same act, are found in such
dissimilar connections asto warrant the conclusion that
they were employed in the different parts of the act with
different intent. Idem. The' comparison sought to be
made is between the words in § 213 b) (4) of the act, and
the same words in § 217 (a). The former provides that
the term "gross income," among other things, does not
include interest upon "obligations of the United States."
It is clear from a consideration of the entire section and
of the subject matter that the purpose of Congress, in
thus excluding from gross income interest upon such obligations, was to aid the borrowing power of the federal
government by making its interest-bearing bonds more
attractive to investors. American Viscose Corp.v. Comm'r
of Int. Rev., 56 F. (2d) 1033. Compare United States
Trust Co. of New York v. Anderson, 65 F. (2d) 575, 577578. The scope of the word "obligations" as there employed must be narrowed accordingly, and not extended
to include interest upon indebtedness not incurred under
the borrowing power, as the court in the Viscose case
properly held. But the use of the words "interest on
. . * interest-bearing obligations" in § 217 (a) is for
a different purpose, namely, to produce revenue, not to
encourage loans in aid of the borrowing power. The
intent of Congress, therefore, in the one case, is fulfilled
by giving the phrase a construction within the narrow

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S

purposes of § 213 (b) (4); and, in the other case. by a
construction, if the phrase fairly admits of it, which will
effect the obviously different statutory-aim of § 217 (a).
Atlantic Cleaners & Dyers v. United States, supra, was
a suit brought to enjoin appellants from continuing an
alleged conspiracy in restraint of trade and commerce in
cleaning, dyeing, and otherwise renovating clothes contrary to § 3 of the Sherman Anti-trust Act. The defense
was that appellants were engaged..solely in the performance of labor and service in cleaning, dyeing and renovating wearing apparel, etc., and that this did not constitute
" trade" within the meaning of the act. The argument
was that since the words " trade or commerce" in § I
of the act, which dealt with interstate commerce, must
be construed not to include a business such as that carried
on by appellant, the identical words used in § 3 dealing
with restraint of trade or commerce within the District
of Columbia should be given the same interpretation.
Considering the subject matter of the act, and the scope
of the legislative power exercised in the one case as compared with that exercised in the other, we held otherwise
In arriving at the conclusion that the word " trade "as used
in § 3 .was to be given a broader interpretation than the
same word as used in § 1, we considered the history lead
ing up to and accompanying the passage of the Sherman
Act, the mischief to be remedied, and other circumstances.
and held that Congress intended to exercise all the power
it possessed; and since the scope of its power in dealing
with the District was more extensive than when dealing
with interstate commerce, we gave to the word "trade"
its full meaning under § 3, unaffected by the narrowe,
meaning which it might have under § 1. The considera
tions invoked in that case are equally applicable here.
But it is said that the phrase in question must be restricted in accordance with the rule of ejusdem geneeris
The point is not without merit. The phrase reads "in-

HELVERING v. STOCKHOLMS &c. BANK.
84

89

Opinion of the Court.

terest on bonds, notes, or other interest-bearing obliga,tions." If the rule invoked be held controlling, it would
follow that the general words "other interest-bearing
obligations" must be assimilated to the particular words
"notes and bonds," and restricted to obligations of the
same kind. But while the rule is-a well-established and
useful one, it is, like other canons of statutory construction, only an aid to the ascertainment of the true meaning
of the statute. It is neither final nor exclusive. To ascertain the meaning of the words of a statute, they may be
submitted to the test of all appropriate canons of statutory construction, of which the rule of ejusdem generis is
only one. If, upon a consideration of the context' and the
objects sought to be attained and of the act as a whole,
it adequately appears that the general words were not
used in the restricted sense suggested by the rule, we must
give effect to the conclusion afforded by the wider view in
order that the will of the legislature shall not fail.
The general object of this act is to put money into the
federal treasury; and there is manifest in the reach of its
many provisions an intention on the part of Congress
to bring about a generous attainment of that object by
imposing a tax upon pretty much every sort of income
subject to the federal power. Plainly, the payment in
question constitutes income derived from a source within
the United States; and the natural aim of Congress would
be to reach it. In Irwin v. Gavit, 268 U. S. 161, 166, this
court, rejecting the contention that certain payments
there involved did not constitute income, said: "If these
payments properly may be called income by the common
.aderstanding of that word and the statute has failed to
•.t thein it has missed so much of the general purpose

miiat it expresses at the start. Congress intended to use
its power to the full extent. Eisner v. Macomber 252
U. S. 189, 203." Although Congress intended, as the
court- held in the Viscose case, supra, to include interest

. OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

on a tax refund made to a domestic corporation, we are
asked to deny such intention in respect of a 'competing
foreign corporation. But we see nothing in the relationship of a foreign corporation to. the United States, or
in any other circumstance called to our attention, which
fairly shows that such a discrimination was within the
contemplation of Congress. On the contrary, the natural
conclusion is that if any discrimination had been intended
it would have been made in favor of, and not against, the
domestic corporation, which contributes in a much more
substantial degree to the support of the people and government of the United States.
The foregoing views are put beyond all fair doubt, if
otherwise any would remain, by the consideration of a
qualification contained in the section itself. After declaring, that interest on bonds, notes, or other interestbearing obligations shall be treated as income from
sources within the United States, the section immediately
proceeds to exclude from that language " interest on deposits with persons carrying on the banking business paid
to persons not engaged in business within the United
States..." It

is apparent from this exception that'

Congress understood that unless the exception were made,
the interest on such deposits would fall within the term
" interest-bearing obligations," and to prevent that result
it was necessary to specifically create the exception. The
conclusion fairly results that the clause was intended to
include all interest-bearing obligations not specifically ex:cepted. The opinion delivered by Lord Tenterden in
The King v. The Trustees for paving Shrewsbury, 3
Barnewall & Adolphus 216, is directly in point. There
a statute imposed certain charges and expenses, in connection with the operations of a gas light company, upon
tenants or occupants of houses, shops, malt-houses, granaries, etc., and hereditaments within Shrewsbury,

HELVERING v. STOCKHOLMS &c. BANK.
84

91

Opinion of the Court.

"meadow and pasture ground excepted." The contention was that the word "hereditaments" must be confined to hereditaments ejusdem generis with those enumerated. The court, hQlding otherwise, said (p. 220):
"Now it is certain that meadows and pastures would
have fallen within the meaning of the word 'hereditament,' if they had not been excepted; it was argued,
therefore, that thig special exemption of meadows and pastures shewed that the other word had been previously
used in its larger sense. On the other hand it was contended, that these words had been introduced merely ex
majori cauteld. Upon tJe best consideration we have
been able to give this case, we are of opinion, that we
ought not to consider the exception of meadow and pasture ground as made only for greater caution, but are
bound to look upon it as introduced by way of special
exception, and so to construe the clause: and, consequently, every thing not so specifically excepted must be
understood to fall within the general liability."
Interest on deposits is no more akin. to notes and bonds
than is interest on tax refunds; and the fact that the
former was expressly excepted from the operation of the
substantive provision quite clearly justifies the conclusion
that the lawmakers attached to the general clause a larger
meaning than it would have if limited to things ejusdem
generis with those specifically enumerated. Certainly,
if it was necessary to save interest on deposits from the
embrace of the general clause by an exception, it was
equally necessary to save interest on tax refunds by a
like exception.
Second. Is the United States a resident within the
meaning of the words "residents, corporate or otherwise "? We think it is. It many times has been held
that the United States or a state is a "person" within
the meaning of statutory provisions applying only to per-

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

sons. See Ohio v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360, 370, and
cases cited. In Martin v. State, 24 Tex. 61, 68, this was
held in respect of a criminal statute, notwithstanding the
general rule that such statutes are to be construed strictly.
The statute there penalized the false making or fraudulent
alteration of a public record when done "with intent
that any person be defrauded." The state supreme court
held that the state was to be taken as a "person " within
the meaning of the statute, and one who made the entry
with intent to defraud the state violated the statute. The
Texas decision was expressly followed by this court in
Stanley v. Schwalby, 147 U. S. 508, 517, where it was held
that the word "person" used in the statute there under
consideration would include the United States "as a body
politic and corporate." Blackstone, writing on the rights
of persons (1 Bl. 123) says:
"Persons also are divided by the law into either natural
persons, or artificial. Natural persons are such as the
God of nature formed us; artificial are such as are created
and devised by human laws for tHe purposes of society and
government, which are called I corporations or bodies
politic."
While it cannot be said that the United States, in its
corporate capacity as an artificial person, has a bodily
presence in any place, it is not unreasonable to hold that
in the eye of the law, it has a residence, and especially so
when a contrary holding would defeat the evident purpose
of a statute. This may be in the nature of a legal fiction;
but legal fictions have an appropriate place in the administration of the law when they are required by the
demands of convenience and justice. Thus, intangible
personal property has been held to have a situs at the
domicile of the owner, although intangibles ordinarily have
no actual situs and the paper evidence of their existence
may be elsewhere. First National Bank v. Maine, 284

HELVERING v. STOCKHOLMS &c. BANK.
84

93

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 312, 328-329. If to carry out the purposes of a statute it be admissible to construe the word "person" as
including the United States, it is hard to see why, in like
circumstances, it is inadmissible t4 construe the word
"resident" as likewise including the United States.
And, finally, if the United States be not a "resident"
in respect of interest upon "other interest-bearing obligations," it is, of course, not a "resident " in respect of
upon its bonds held by nonresident aliens and
interest
corporations.
The interest upon many of these bonds is
subject to a super-income tax and to certain other taxes.
If it had been intended to make an exemption in respect
of such taxes in favor of nonresidents, it is reasonable to
suppose that Congress would have said so in explicit
terms * instead 6f leaving the fate of taxes upon *the
large sums thus involved to depend upon the way in
which a court might happen to construe the word "resident "-a most unsatisfactory substitute, as the conflicting decisions in this and the next succeeding case bear
witness. We cannot assent to the view that Congress has
written into the law an exception of such importance in
a manner so indirect and casual.
In the foregoing discussion, we have not been unmindful of the rule, frequently stated by this court, that taxing
acts "are not to be extended by implication beyond the
clear import of the language used," and that doubts are to
be resolved against the government and in favor of the
taxpayer. The rule is.a salutary one, but it does not apply
here. The intention of the lawmaker controls in the construction of taxing acts as it does in the construction of
other statutes, and that intention is to be ascertained,
not by taking the word or clause in question from its
setting and viewing it apart, but by considering it in con* As, for example, it did in the Act of March 3, 1919, § 4, c. 100,
40 Stat. 1309, 1311.

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

nection with the context, the general purposes of the statute in which it is found, the occasion and circumstances
of its use, and other appropriate tests for the ascertainment of the legislative will. Compare Rein v. Lane, L.
R. 2 Q. B. Cases 144, 151. The intention being thus disclosed, it is enough that the word or clause is reasonably
susceptible of a meaning consonant therewith, whatever
might be its meaning in another and different connectiqn.
We are not at liberty to reject the meaning so established
and adopt another lying outside the intention of the legislature, simply because the latter would release the taxpayer or bear less heavily against him. To do so would
be not to resolve a doubt in his favor, but to say that the
statute does not mean what it means.
"The rule of strict construction is not violated by perinitting the words of a statute to have their full meaning,
or the more extended of two meanings. The words are
not to be bent one way or the other, but to be taken in the
sense which ivill best manifest the legislative intent.
United States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385, 396; .UnitedStates
v. Corbett, 215 U. S. 233, 242." Sacramento Nay. Co. v.
Salz, 273 U. S. 326, 329. ! The rule of strict construction,
applies to penal laws, but such laws are not to be construed so strictly as to defeat the obvious intention of the
legislature; or so applied as to narrow the words of the
statute to the exclusion of cases which those words, in the
sense that the legislature has obviously used them, would
comprehend. United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76,
95. That .view, expressed by Chief Justice Marshall, has
since been frequently followed by this court. See, for
example, American Fur Co. v. United States; 2 Pet. 358,
367; United States v. Morris, 14 Pet. 464, 475; United
States v. Hartwell, supra, 395-6; Donnelley v. United
States, 276 U. S.505, 512.
Judgment reversed.

