VIRGINIA v. IMPERIAL. COAL CO.
Counsel for Parties.

VIRGINIA v. IMPERIAL COAL SALES CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS. OF VIRGINIA.

No. 16.

Argued October 12, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

1. Where the highest court of a State, confronted with the two questions whether a state property tax is invalid under the state taxing
statutes and whether the property is immune undef the commerce
clause of the Federal Constitution, prefers to rest its judgment,
avoiding the assessment, explicitly and exclusively on the federal
-ground, the. case is within the jurisdiction of this Court, under 28
U. S. C., ยง 344 (b). P. 16. '
2. Intangible property of a corporation consisting of money on hand
at the place of its principal office, in the State that created it and
the excess of its bills and accounts 'receivable there over its bills and
accounts payable, has its situs for property taxation in that State.
P. 19.
3. The facts that such intangible property is employed wholly in interstate, commerce and that the owner has no real or tangible personal property in the State, do not exempt the intangible property
from a non-discriminatory property tax by the State. P. 19.
4. Cases in which state taxes on the privilege of doing an interstate
business were avoided as directly burdening interstate commerce or
touching property beyond the jurisdiction of the State, are inapplicable to a non-discriminatory ad valorem tax on property used in
interstate commerce within the taxing jurisdiction; for such property taxation affiects interstate commerce only incidentally. P. 20.
161 Va. 718, 736;- 167 S. E. 268, 172 S. E. 927, reversed.
.CERTIORARI, 292 U. S. 619, to review a judgment avoiding a state tax assessment for conflict with the commerce
clause of the Federal Constitution. The case arose upon
the application of the taxpayer to the state court of first
instance for correction of.the assessment and exoneration
from the tax. Judgment for the taxpayer was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of Appeals on a writ of error sued
out by the State.
Mr. Henry R. Miller,.Jr., with whom Mr. Abram P.

Staples, Attorney General of Virginia, and Mr. W. W..

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

Martin, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Messrs. James R. Caskie and F. P. Christian, Jr., for
respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Imperial Coal Sales Company, a corporation organized under the ,laws of Virginia, sought exoneration
from taxes assessed on its capital and income by the Department of Taxation of that State. The taxes were
assailed under the commerce clause and the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
The judgment of the trial court, holding the taxes to be
invalid, was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Appeals.
161 Va. 718, 736; 167 S. E. 268, 172 S. E. 927. This
Court granted certiorari. 292 U. S. 619.
The tax on income was held to be invalid upon the
non-federal ground that it was unauthorized by the state
law. But in dealing with the capital tax, the state court
concluded that it was "unnecessary to pass upon the
construction of Section 73 of the Tax Code under which
the assessment was made." While observing "a strong
leaning and.intent on the part of the lawmakers to exclude such corporations as the sales company from state
tax action," the Court did not put its decision upon a
non-federal ground but based it explicitly upon the
ground that the tax was invalid under the Federal Constitution. The Court said-" We prefer to rest the decision of the validity (f the capital tax here considered
upon the broad proposition that it is invalid because it
is a burden upon interstate commerce and forbidden by
the Constitution of the United States." As the decision
was thus expressly rested, not upon the inapplicability
of the state law, but upon a determination of the federal

VIRGINIA v. IMPERIAL. COAL CO.
15

Opinion of the Court.

question, by which the bar of the Federal Constitution
was erected against the levy of the tax, this Court has
jurisdiction. 28 U. S. C. 344 (b); Henderson Bridge Co.
v. Henderson City, 173 U. S. 592, 608, 609; Rogers v.
Hennepin County, 240 U. S. 184, 188, 189; Grayson v.
Harris, 267 U. S. 352, 358.
The material facts, as set forth by the state court, are
as follows: Respondent, having its principal officeI in
Lynchburg, Virginia, and maintaining a branch office in
Cincinnati, Ohio, conducts a sale agency. Its sole business is that of selling coal: for foreign coal mining corporations. It directs and manages the shipment and transportation of the coal, collects the proceeds of sale, and
is paid a commission of eight, per cent. Respondent does
not own or lease coal mines and is not engaged in the
business of mining. No coal of any consequence is sold
in Virginia andnone of the coal is located in Virginia at
the time of :sale. Nor does respondent own or operate
warehouses or coal storage yards in Virginia. It does
not retail, buy or own, :coal but sells coal for its foreign
principals in carload lots f. o. b. mines for a continuous
journey between points outside of Virginia. When coal is
sold through the Cincinnati office contracts are forwarded
to the Lynchburg office for approval, and orders are sent
to the mines for shipmeht. The record of sales and an account with the mines from which the coal is shipped are
kept in the office at Lynchburg. Purchasers agree to
pay monthly. Respondent collects the money and deposits it in bank in Lynchburg, and from these proceeds
the mines are paid for the coal, :less respondent's commi.sions.
The state court held that while respondent was doing
business in Virginia, that business " arises out of, is inseparable from and incidental only to, the principal business of selling coal in interstate commerce." The Court
said that a corporation engaged in interstate conimerce

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

"may be tAxed by a state on (1) its real estate and
tangible personal property situated in the taxing state,
and (2) upon its intangible personal property if in the
taxing state it does intrastate business or has any appreciable real or tangible property. But if it has no real
or tangible property and does no intrastate business in
the taxing state, it cannot be taxed by that state."
1. The tax in question, styled a "capital tax," is an'
ad valorem property tax. It is a state tax of "seventyfive cents on every one hundred dollars of the actual
value" of the capital of any trade or business except that
otherwise specifically taxed or exempted from taxation.
Section 73, Tax Code-of Virginia. By 'capital' is meant
the property described. The property which is, subject
to the tax consists of (1.) the inventory of stock on hand,
(2) the excess of all bills and accounts receivable over bills
and accounts payable, (3) all money on hand, and on deposit , and (4) all other taxable personal property of any
kind whatever, including all choses in action, equities,
demands and claims, but excluding certain property
specifically mentioned in the statute. Real estatv used
in trade or business is not! held to be capital under the
statute but is to be listed and taxed as other real estate;
and tangible personal property used in trades and businesses mentioned in the statute is to be listed exclusively
for local taxation.
In the instant case, no property was assessed under
the first and fourth categories of the statute, for respondent had none. The assessment, as the state court
found, was based "on the money on hand, plus the excess of the bills and accounts receivable over the bills and
accounts payable." The state court treated the tax as
a property tax, saying that "it must be borne in mind
that the tax sought to be imposed is one upon property
which is entirely intangible and which is used wholly and
exclusively in interstate commerce."

VIRGINIA v. IMPERIAL:COAL CO.
15

19

Opinion of the Court.

2. Respondent's ownership of the property assessed is
not disputed. No question is presented on this point
merely because of the conduct of its business as a sales
agency. The ownership of the property was the subject
of a stipulation in the trial court, and it was agreed
"that the property constituting -the basis of the assessment on capital was, on the dates in question, the property of the sales company."
3.:The money on hand,'and the bills and accounts receivable, the excess of which over bills and accounts
payable was assessed, had their situs in Virginia. Respondent is a domestic corporation with its principal office
in that State where"the proceeds of its accounts receivable
are collected and deposited in bank. Such credits and accounts are regarded as situated at the domicile of the
creditor and that domicile establishes a basis for taxation.
Kirtland v. Hqtchkiss, 100 U. S. 491, 498; Fidelity & Columbia Trust Co. v. Louisville, 245 U. S. 54, 58; Maguire
v. Trefry, 253 U. S. 12, 16; Blodgett v. Silberman, 277
U. S. 1, 15; Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586, 591, 592;
Beidler v. Tax Commission, 282 U. S. 1, 8; Lawrence v.
-Tax (Commissioii,286 U. S. 276; 279, 280.
4. Property having its situs within the taxing State is
not exempt from a non-discriminatory property tax
merely because the property is used in interstate commerce. Corporations :engaged in interstate commerce
should bear their proper :share of the: burdens: of. the
government under whose protection they conduct their
operations, and non-discriminatory taxation of their property although used in interstate commerce, as this Court
has frequently said, affects that commerce only incidentally and is not inconsistent with the constitutional immunity from the imposition of direct burdens. Postal
Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 696; Adams
Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194, 220; Atlantic & Pacific
'Telegraph Co. v. Philadelphia,190 U. S. 160, 163; United

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U.S.

States Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335, 344;
Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450, 453;
Wells, Fargo & Co. v. Nevada, 248 U. S. 165, 166, i67;
Eastern Air Transport v. Tai Commission, 285 U. S. 147,
152.
Such taxation may embrace intangible as well as tangible property. Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 166 U. S. 185,
218, 219; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, supra;
Wells, Fargo& Co. v. Nevada, supra. It is not the character of the property that makes it subject to such a tax,
but the fact that the property has its situs within the
State and that the owner should give appropriate support
to the government that protects it. That duty is not
less when the property is intangible than when it is tangible. Nor are we able to perceive any sound reason for
holding that the owner must have real estate or tangible property within the State in order to subject its
intangible property within the State to taxation.
We are dealing, as we have said, with an ad valorem
property tax, and not with a privilege tax. Respondent
is not taxed upon the privilege of engaging in interstate
commerce, and decisions, cited by the state court, holding
such taxes to be invalid are not apposite. Thus, in
Ozark Pipe Line Corp. v. Monier, 266 U. S. 555, the tax
was held to be bad as one imposed "upon the privilege
or right to do business" of a corporation engaged only
in interstate commerce. Id., p. 562. The same principle of protection was applied in Alpha Portland Cement
Co., v. Massachusetts, 268 U. S. 203, 216. Compare
Anglo-Chilean Corp. v. Alabama, 288 U. S. 218. Decisions holding invalid license fees or excise taxes measured
in such a manner as to burden interstate commerce and
to attempt to exert the taxing authority with respect to
business and property beyond the jurisdiction of the
State, are also inapplicable. Cf. Air-Way Electric Corp.
v. Day, 266 U. S. 71, 83. Nor are we here concerned

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM.
15

21

Syllabus.

with the question which has been discussed in cases dealing with the effect of the taxation of gross receipts derived from interstate commerce.' Without going into
that question, it is sufficient again to point out that the
tax is not laid upon gross receipts but upon the "excess
of all bills and accounts receivable over bills and accounts
payable." The effect- upon interstate commerce, as in
other, instances of non-discriminatory property taxation,
is at most indirect and incidental. See United States
Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321, 329; Shaffer V.
Carter, 252 U. S. 37, 57.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
DETROIT TRUST CO., TRUSTEE, v. THE THOMAS

BARLUM

ET AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

* No. 13. Argued October 12, 1934.--Decided November 5, 1934.
1. A court of admiralty has no jurisdiction of a -suit to foreclose a
mortgage on a ship, in the absence of an Act of Congress conferring
such jurisdiction. P. 32.
2. "Preferred mortgages" of ships under the Ship Mortgage Act of
1920 include deeds of trust securing bonds sold to the public and
under that statute are foreclosable exclusively in admiralty, with
priority of lien as: therein prescribed, if indorsement upon ship's
documents, recording, and other conditions expressed in the statute
have been fulfilled. P. 32.
'See Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230; Philadelphia& Southern
Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; Galveston, H. & S. A.
Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania,
245 U. S. 292, 295; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S.
450, 453; New Jersey Telephone Co. v. Tax Board, 280 U. S. 338, 349.
* Together with No. 14, Detroit Trust Co., Trustee, v. The John J.
Barlum et al., certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.

