OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

mixed questions of law and fact, and not such as involve
or imply conclusions or judgment by the Court upon the
effect of facts adduced in the cause, and must be distinct
and definite. The Court cannot be called upon to answer questions of objectionable generality, or to review
proceedings, facts and circumstances for the purpose of
deciding a variety of preliminary questions in order to
reach and decide an ultimate question submitted. Rule
37. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. vi Williams,
205 U. S. 444, 451-453; United States v. Mayer, 235 U. S.
55, 66; Cleveland-Cliffs Iron Co. v. Arctic Iron Co., 248
U. S. 178, 179; United States v. John Barth Co., 276 U.
S. 606; White v. Johnson, 282 U. S. 367, 371; Wells v.
Commissioner, 286 U. S. 529. See, also, Dennistoun v.
Stewart, 18 How. 565, 568; CaliforniaPaving Co. v. Molitor, 113 U. S. 609, 616; Jewell v. Knight, 123 U. S.426,
432.
The certificate is
Dismissed.
UNITED STATES v. TROY.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF PENNSYIVANIA.

No. 25.

Argued October 16, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

1. That part of par. (b) of § 146 of the Revenue Act of 1928, which
provides that'any person who wilfully attempts to defeat a tax shall
be guilty of a felony, is applicable to an officer of a corporation who
made a false return on its behalf in a wilful attempt to defeat part,
of its tax, even though making a return for the corporation was no
part of his duty. P. 61.
2. The declaration of the'same section, par. (c), that the term "person," as used in the section, shall include any officer, etc., of a cor*

No.26.

United States v.Troy. Appeal from the District Court

of the United States for the Middle District of Pennsylvania. November 5, 1934. Judgment reversed, per stipulation of coensel to
abide the decision in No. 25.

UNITED STATES v. TROY.
Opinion of the Court.

58

poration who, as such, is under duty to perform the act in respect
of which the violation occurs, is to be read with the other provisions of the same section and with § 701 defining "person" and
"including." P. 61.
6 F. Supp. 315, reversed.

APPEAL under the Criminal Appeals Act from a judgment quash'ing an indictment.
Assistant Attorney General Wideman,' with whom
Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs, James W. Morris and
John H. McEvers were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Joseph F. 'Gunster, with whom Mr. A. M. Lucks
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE. MCREYN OLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.

This cause is here under the -Criminal Appeals Act,
March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246 (U. S. C., Title 18,
§ 682) and § 238 Jud. Code (U. S. C., Title 28, § 345).
It. necessitates consideration of certain provisions of the
Revenue Act of 1928, c. 852, 45 Stat. 791.
Section 52 of that Act commands corporations to make
tax returns sworn to by designated officers. Section 146
(a) declares that any person required to make return
who wilfully fails so to do shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; 146 (b) that any person who wilfully fails to
collect or truthfully account for. and pay over any tax,
and any person who wilfully attempts to evade or defeat
any tax shall be guilty of felony; and 146 (c) that "the
term 'person' as used in this section includes an officer
or employee of a corporation or a member or employee of
a partnership, who as such officer, employee, or member
is under a duty to perform the act in respect of which the
violation occurs."
Section 701 provides: "When used in this Act the term
'person' means an individual, a trust or estate, a part-

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

nership, or a corporation "; also " the terms 'includes'
and 'including' when used in a definition contained in
this Act shall not be deemed to exclude other things otherwise within the meaning of the term defined."
Applicable portions of the Act are copied in the
margin. *

An indictment, in the Middle District of Pennsylvania, charged appellee Troy with violating § 146 (b)
in that while president of the Troy Oil Company, Incorporated, he unlawfully, wilfully and knowingly attempted
to defeat and evade a large part of the tax due from that
corporation for 1929, by making a return for it which
* Revenue Act of 1928, c. 852, 45 Stat. 791, 808, 835, 878.
Sec. 52. Corporation Returns.
(a) Requirement.-Every corporation subject to taxation under
this title shall make a return, stating specifically the items of its
gross income and the deductions and credits allowed by this title.
The return shall be sworn to by the president, vice president, or
other principal officer and by the treasurer or assistant treasurer.
Sec. 146. Penalties.
(a) Any person required under this title to pay. any tax, or re-'
quired by law or regulations made under authority thereof to make a
return, keep any records, or sujply any information, for the purposes'
of the computation, assessment, or collection of any tax imposed by
this title, who willfully fails to pay such tax, make such return, keep
such records, or supply such information, at the time or times required by law or regulations, shall, in addition to other penalties provided by 14w, be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned for not more than one
year, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.
(b) Any person required under this title to collect, account for, and.
pay over any tax imposed by this title, who willfully fails to collect or
truthfully account for and pay over such tax, and any person who
willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any tax imposed
by this title or the payment thereof, shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned for not
more than five years, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.
(c) The term " person'" as used in this section includes an officer
or employee of a corporation or a member or employee of a partner-

UNITED STATES v. TROY.
58

Opinion of the Court.

falsely stated the gross income. The indictment was
challenged because " it fails to set forth that the defendant was under a duty to perform the act in respect of
which the violation occurred and in the absence of this
averment the indictment fails to set forth facts showing
prima facie, a commission of the crime charged in the
indictment." The trial judge sustained the objection
and quashed the indictment. In his view it was necessary that there should be allegation and proof that appellee, as president of the corporation, was under a duty
to make the returrm.
This was error; the qqestioned judgment must be reversed.
Section 146 (a) penalizes any person required to make
a return, who wilfully fails so to do; paragraph (b) any
person under duty to collect, account for, and pay 6ver
any tax, who wilfully fails, also any person (without regard to duty) who wilfully- attempts to defeat the tax;
and paragraph' (c) declares That the term person as used
in the section shall include an*officer under duty to perform, etc.
Considering these paragraphs along with the definitions of § 701, it seems sufficiently clear Congress did not
intend that paragraph (c) should exclude from paragraph
(b) one who actually attempted to defeat. If the charge
against appellee had been failure to make return, or pay
over the tax for the corporation it might have been necesship, who as such officer, employee, or member is under a duty to
perform the act in respect of which the violation occurs.
Sec. 701. Definitions.
(a) When used in this Act(1) The term "person " means an individual, a trust or estate, a
partnership, or a corporation.
(b) The terms "includes" and "including " when used in a definition contained in this Act shall not be deemed to exclude other
things otherwise within the meaning of the term defined.

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

sary to allege and show some .dutyin respect thereto; but
when charged with wilful effort to defeat the tax by presenting a false return no allegation of duty to make the
return was necessary. The alleged act sufficiently indicated appellee's criminal intent. Certainly we can find
no legislative purpose to exempt from punishment one
who actively endeavors to defeat a tax. And because
some officers are said to be included in the term "person," all other individuals are not necessarily excluded.
Thus construed, all parts of the statute may have effect, and the manifest purpose of Congress will not be
obstructed.
Reversed.
GILLIS, RECEIVER, v. CALIFORNIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 28. Argued October 8, 9, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.
1. Power in the District Courts to authorize their receivers in conservation proceedings to transact local business without compliance
with local statutes obligatory on all others, may be withheld by
Congress. P. 65.
2. Under 28 U. S. C., § 124; Jud. Code, § 65, a receiver for a corporation producing and distributing gasoline in California was under a
duty to take out a license and give a bond with surety to secure
payment of taxes, pursuant to state law, and could not be
absolved by order of the federal court that appointed him. P. 65.
3. There is no merit in the suggestion that observance of the state law
in this case would give an unlawful preference to the State over the
United States in respect of gasoline taxes. P. 66..
4. Even though it be impossible in the circumstances for the receiver
to furnish the bond required by the state law, this is pnot an excuse
for operating the business in disregard of that law and hence in violation of the Act of Congress. P. 66.
69 F. (2d) 746, affirmed.

