IRVING TRUST CO. v. PERRY CO.
296

Syllabus.

Knohr & Burchard v. Pacific Creosoting Co., 181 Fed.
856, 860 (D. C.); The Charles Rohde, 8 F. (2d) 506, 507
(D. C.); H. E. Hodgson & Co. v. Royal Mail Steam Packet
Co., 33 F: (2d) 337 (D. C.). In each of these cases the
carrier is charged with the responsibility for a loss which,
in fact, may not be due to his fault, merely because the
law, in pursuance of a wise policy, casts on him the
burden of showing facts relieving him from liability.
The vessel in the present case is in no better position
because, upon the evidence, it appears that some of the
damage, in an amount not ascertainable, is due to sea
peril. That does not remove the burden of showing facts
relieving it from liability. If it remains liable for the
whole amount of the damage because it is unable to show
that sea peril was a cause of the loss, it must equally remain so if it cannot show what part of the loss is due to
that cause. Speyer v. The Mary Belle Roberts, supra;
The Rona, .5 Asp. 259, 262; Carver, Carriage by Sea
(7th ed.), § 78, p. 114.
Since the respondent- has failed throughout to sustain
the burden, which -rested upon it at the outset, of showing to what extent sea peril was the effective cause of
the damage, and as the petitioners are without fault, no
question of apportionment or division of the damage
Reversed.
arises.
IRVING TRUST CO., TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY,
v. A. W. PERRY, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 22. Argued November 5, 6, .1934.-Decided December 3, 1934.
1. A claim based upon a covenant in a lease which provides that the
filing of a petition in bankruptcy by or against the lessee shall
constitute a breach of the lease, that ipso facto and without entry
or other action by the lessor the lease shall be terminated, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioner.

293 U. S.

that thereupon the lessor shall be entitled to damages equal to the
amount of the rent reserved for the residue of the term less the
fair rental value of the premises for the residue of the term, is
provable in bankruptcy under §§ 1 (11) and 63 (a) and (b) of
the Bankruptcy Act, as it was prior to the amendments of June
7 and 18, 1934. P. 311.
So held upon construction of the covenant as an agreement on
the part of the tenant to pay as liquidated damages, in the event
of the specified breach, an amount equal to the difference between
the present fair value of the remaining rent due under the lease
and the present fair rental value of the premises for the balance
of the term.
2. The claim is not for rent reserved or upon the lease as such, but
is one founded upon an independent express contract, and is within
the very words of § 63 (a) (4) of the Bankruptcy Act. Manhattan
Properties,Inc. v. Irving Trust Co., 291 U. S. 320, distinguished.
P. 311.
69 F. (2d) 90, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 292 U. S. 620, to review a judgment reversing a judgment of'the District Court which affirmed an
order of the Referee in Bankruptcy disallowing a claim
based upon a covenant in a lease.

Mr. Edward K. Hanlon, with whom Mr. Charles K.
Beekman was on tl~e brief, for petitioner.

The philosophy of the Manhattan Properties case was
that claims based upon rent stood apart as a matter of
well-defined, historical development, acquiesced in by
Congress. The distinction being historical, reference to
cases affecting personalty is futile. See Gardinerv. Butler & Co., 245 U..S. 603, 605; Wim. Filene's Sons Co. v.
Weed, 245 U. S. 597; Maynard v. Elliott, 283 U. S. 273;
Central Trust Co. v., Chicago Auditorium Assn., 240

U. S. 581.
In bankruptcy the court is dealing with a statutory
system, and can allow only such claims as the statute
permits. The bankruptcy statute generally permits
proofs of claim for anticipatory breaches of contracts, but
as a matter of historical distinction sanctioned by long

IRVING TRUST CO. v. PERRY CO.
307

Opinion of the Court.

legislative history, claims for rent and claims for damages
for breach of covenants to pay rent have not .been provable.
In equity there may be a distinction between the making and the absence of a promise. In bankruptcy the
distinction has to do with the subject matter.
The result below is contrary to the trend of the decisions of the lower federal courts
Recent legislative history' adds evidence that it was
not the intention of Congress to have any exception to
the general rule. Act of June 7, 1934; H. Rep. 194, 73d
Cong., 1st Sess.; S. Rep. 482, 2d Sess.; H. Rep. 1773, 73d
Cong., 2d Sess.; Act of June 18, 1934; S. Rep. 1404, 73d
Cong., 2d Sess.
In construing an Act of Congress applicable to a controversy, resort may be had to amendments passed after
the controversy Arose. Cope v. Cope, 137 U. S. 682;
Dunbar v. Dunbar, 190 U. S. 340; Wetmore v. Markoe,
196 U. S. 68.
Mr. Thomag F. Dougherty, with whom Messrs. Albert
Stickney and Hersey Egginton were on the brief, for
respondent.
By leave of Court, briefs amicorum curiae were filed by
Messrs. Walter E. Hope and H. Struve Hensel on behalf
of the Trustees in Bankruptcy of Louis K. Liggett Co., in
support of petitioner; and Messrs. Thomas Hitnt and Earle
W. Carr on behalf of the Trustees of the A. Shuman Real
Estate Trust, in support of respondent.
MR* JvsrIcE
Court.

ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

The respondent was lessor in a lease having a number
of years to run at the date of the tenant's bankruptcy.
The writing stipulated:
". .. for the more effectual securing to the Lessor of
the rent and other payments herein provided, it is agreed

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

as a further condition of this lease that the filing of any
petition in bankruptcy or insolvency by or against the
Lessee shall be deemed to constitute a breach of this lease,
and thereupon, ipso facto and without entry or other action by the Lessor, this lease shall become and be terminated; and, notwithstanding any other provisions of this
lease, the Lessor shall forthwith upon such termination be
entitled to recover damages for such breach in an amount
equal to the amount of the rent reserved in this lease for
the residue of the term hereof less the fair rental value of
the premises for the residue of said term."
Respondent filed a proof of claim, based upon this
clause, which the referee expunged. The District Court
affirmed the order. The Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing the decree of the District Court, directed that' the
claim should be allowed.' The case is here upon writ of
certiorari.
Decision is to be made under §§ 1 (11) and 63 (a) and
(b) of the Act of July 1, 1898, as they stood prior to the
filing of the petition on September 30, 1932, and the pres-.
entation of respondent's proof of claim on March 29,
1933.2 The subsequent amendments of June 7 and 18,
1934,1 are by their terms inapplicable.
In Manhattan Properties,Inc. v. Irving Trust Co., 291
U. S. 320, we reserved the question of the provability of a
claim for liquidated damages arising upon such a covenant. The petitioner's contention is that inasmuch as
claims for future rent, or for damages for the breach of
the covenant to pay rent, or claims upon contracts of
indemnity conditioned upon reentry by the landlord subsequent to -bankruptcy, were there held not provable, it
logically follows that a claim for stipulated damages fcr
169 F. (2d) 90.
U. S. C. Tit. 11, §§ 1 and 103.
3 Public No. 296 [c. 424, 48 Stat. 911] and Public No. 387 [c. 580,
48 Stat. 991], 73d Congress.
2

IRVING TRUST CO. v. BOWDITCH.
Syllabus.

307

breach of the lease may not be proved. We hold
otherwise.
By the terms of the contract the filing of the petition
in bankruptcy was, of itself, and irrespective of the election of lessor or lessee, a breach of the lease. The claim
of the landlord, consequent upon the breach, arose and
*matured at the moment. of the filing of the petition. The
claim is not for rent reserved or upon the lease as such,
but is founded upon an independent express contract, and
hence within the very words of § 63 (a) 4.
The Circuit Court c6nstrued the stipulation as an
agreement on the part oi. the tenant to pay as. liquidated
damages, in the event of the specified breach, an amount
equal to the difference between the present fair value of
the remaining rent due under the lease and the present
fair rental value of the premises for the balance of the
term. The covenant is fairly susceptible of this construction. So read, the court held the clause provided a reasonable formula for ascertaining the damages of the landlord, did not smack of a penalty, and was therefore
enforceable. See Win. Filene's Sons Co. v. Weed, 245
U. S.597. We concur in the view that the contract, as
its terms were interpreted and applied, supports a provable claim for the stipulated damages.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is

Affirmed.

IRVING TRUST CO., TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY,
v. BOWDITCH ET AL.
.CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 173.

Argued November 6, 1934,-Decided December 3, 1934.

Decided upon the authority of Irving Trust Co. v. A. W. Perry, Inc.,
ante, p. 307.

Affirmed.

