OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

thing inconsistent with the moral claims of an objector,
still less with his constitutional immunities, in coupling
the exemption with these collateral conditions.
Manifestly a different doctrine would carry us to
lengths that have never yet been dreamed of. The conscientious objector, if his liberties were to be thus extended, might refuse to contribute taxes in furtherance
of a war, whether for attack or for defense, or in furtherance of any other end condemned by his conscience
as irreligious or immoral. The right of private judgment
has never yet been so exalted above the powers and the
compulsion of the agencies of government. One who is
a martyr to a principle-which may turn out in the-end
to be a delusion or an error-does not prove'by his martyrdom that he has kept within the law.

I am authorized to state that MR.
and MR.

JUSTICE STONE

JUSTICE BRANDEIS

join in this opinion.

INDIANA FARMER'S GUIDE PUBLISHING CO. v.
PRAIRIE FARMER PUBLISHING CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 60.

Argued November 8, 1934.-Decided December 3, 1934.

1. A business of publishing and circulating farm journals, which involves shipment of substantial quantities of the papers to other
States, and also the obtaining of advertising essential to the bus:ness from cu9tomers in other States and the transportation between
customers and publishers over state lines of electrotypes used in
setting up the advertisements, involves interstate commerce.
Blumenstock Bros. v. Curtis Publishing Co., 252 U. S. 436, distinguished. P. 274.
2. To constitute a combination to restrain or monopolize a business
in interstate commerce, within the meaning of §§ 1 and 2 of the
Sherman Act, it is not necessary that the restraint or monopoly

FARMER'S GUIDE CO. v. PRAIRIE CO.
268

269

Argument for Petitioner.

should affect all of the business of the kind throughout the country; it may relate to such part of it as is carried on in a particular
section of the country. Pp. 277, 278.
3. The.Court will not search the record for grounds to sustain a
judgment where the ground upon which it was based proves untenable and none other is suggested by respondent. P. 281.
70 F. (2d) 3, reversed.
CERTIORARI *

to review the affirmance of a judgment

directing a verdict against the plaintiff in an action for
triple damages under § 7 of the Sherman Act.
Messrs. Eben Lesh and U. S. Lesh for petitioner.
The petitioner is engaged in interstate commerce. Its
business of disseminating advertising to the several States
through the medium of its magazine constitutes interstate
'rade or commerce, within the meaning of the Sherman
'xct; and the District Court erred in holding that it was
without jurisdiction over the subject matter. Preston v.
Finley, 72 Fed. 850, 857; United States v. Swift & Co.,
122 Fed. 529, 531-532; modified, 196 U. S. 375; Butler
Bros. Shoe Co. v. U. S. Rubber Co., 156 Fed. 1, 17; Furst
v. Brewster, 282 U. S. 493, 497; Station WBT v. Poulnot,
46 F. (2d) 671, 675; Ramsay v. Bill Poster Assn., 260 U. S.
501, 511; Pensacola Telegraph Co. v. Western Union, 96
U. S. 1, 9.
The petitioner proved that as a result of the concerted
activities of the respondents in combining and offering the
Midwest Unit Rate, it lost advertising revenues in the
approximate amount of $145,000. The opinion of the
Court of Appeals concedes this point. The damages were
properly proved. Eastman Kodak Co. v. Southern Co.,
295 Fed. 98, 102; American Can Co. v. Ladoga Canning
Co., 44 F. (2d) 763, 768-769; Rankin v. Bill Poster Assn.,
42 F. (2d) 152, 155-156.
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondents.

293 U. S.

It was not necessary for petitioner to prove that the
respondents' activities monopolized, or tended to monopolize, the farm paper business of the entire country, as
coming within the provisions of § 2 of the Act. United
States v. Knight & Co., 156 U. S. 1, 17; Pocahontas Coke
Co. v. Powhatan Coal & Coke Co., 60 W. Va. 508, 525;
Eastman Kodak Co. v. Southern Co., 273 U. S 359; Commonwealth v. Dyer, 243 Mass. 472, 499-503; Stewart v.
Stearns, 56 Fla. 570, 588-594; Thornton, A Treatise on
the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, p. 105.
It was not necessary for petitioner to prove that respondents' activities were such as restrained interstate
commerce so as to affect the entire industry throughout
th& country, within the provisions of § 1'of the Act.
United States v. Keystone Watch Case Co., 218 Fed. 502,
518; Paramount Famous Lasky Corp. v. United States,
282 U. S. 30, 42-43.
A directed verdict was improper; neither of the courts
below was entitled to weigh the evidence as to whether the
facts proved at the trial showed such a restraint of commerce as violated the provisions of the Act. Gasco v.
Tracas, 85 Ind. App. 591, 594; Shadoan v. CincinnatiRy.
Co., 220 Fed. 68, 73; Conformity Act, 28 U. S.C. 724; Rev.
Stats., § 914.
The opinion of the Court of Appeals was based upon a
misconception of the two cases, Appalachian Coals, Inc. v.
United States, 288 U. S. 343, and Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 283 U. S.163.
Mr. Maxwell V. Beghtol, with whom Messrs. Thomas E.
Murphy, Burke G. Slaymaker, and Clarence F. Merrell
were on the brief, for respondents.
To justify recovery under the treble damage section of
the Sherman Act, injury must result from something forbidden or made unlawful by §§ 1 or 2 of the Act. Virtue v.
Creamery Package Co., 227 U. S. 8, 24.

FARMER'S GUIDE CO. v. PRAIRIE CO.
268

271

Opinion of the Court.

The primary purpose of the Act is to foster competition.
Whitwell v. Continental Tobacco Co., 125 Fed. 454, 461;
Board of Trade v. United States, 246 U. S. 231, 238.
Restraint of trade must be direct and not incidental or
indirect. Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578, 592;
Anderson v. United States,' 171 U. S. 604, 615; United
States v. American Linseed Oil Co., 262 U. S.371, 388.
Agreements concerning advertising rates are not interstate commerce. Blumenstock Bros. v. Curtis Publishing
Co., 252 U. S.436, 438.
A combination to sell a product by joint effort of owners
at agreed prices is not violative of the Sherman Act if the
members do not control a major part of the product.
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 163, 175;
AppalachianCoals, Inc. v. United States, 288 IT.
S. 343.
MR.JusTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner brought this action against respondents alleging facts upon which it claimed they violated § § 1 and
2 of the Sherman Act and thereby caused injury to its
property and business for which it prayed recovery of
three-fold damages under § 7. The respondents answered separately by general denial. At the close of all
the evidence they submitted a written motion that the
court direct a verdict in their favor. The court granted
the motion and entered judgment. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed. 70 F. (2d) 3.
Section 1 of the Sherman Act denounces " every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or
conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the
.several States." 15 U. S. C., § 1. Section 2 declares:
" Every person who shall monopolize, or attempt to monopolize, or combine or conspire with any other person
or persons, to monopolize any part of the trade or commerce among the several States

. .

. shall be deemed

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293QU. S.

guilty of a misdemeanor." 15 U. S. C., § 2. Section 7
provides: "Any person who shall be injured in his business or property by any other person or corporation by
reason of anything forbidden or declared to be unlawful
by this act may sue therefor . . . and shall recover three
fold the damages by him sustained, and the costs of suit,
including a reasonable attorney's fee." 26 Stat. 210.
For a number of years, 1928 to 1932 inclusive, next prior
to the commencement of this action, the petitioner and
each respondent other than the Midwest Farm Paper
Unit, Inc., was a publisher of one or more farm papers.
Each is a general, and not a vocational, paper; the larger
part of its circulation is in the State where printed; it
does not circulate in any substantial number throughout the country as a whole and is called a state or sectibnal
paper in order to distinguish it from publications having
a wider and what is referred to as a national circulation.
Petitioner publishes weekly "The Indiana Farmer's
Guide " at Huntington, Indiana. Its circulation is about
160,000, of which over two-thirds is in Indiana and approximately 50,000 in other States. The respondent
Prairie Company publishes in Illinois "The Prairie
Farmer" and the " Indiana Edition " of the same, which
has a large circulation in Indiana. The Wallace Company publishes in Iowa "Wallace's Farmer and Iowa
Homestead." The Wisconsin Company publishes in Wisconsin the "Wisconsin Agriculturist and Farmer." The
McKelvie Company publishes in Nebraska "The Nebraska Farmer." The Webb Company publishes in
Minnesota "The Farmer and Farm, Stock and Home "
and the " Dakota Edition" of the same. Advertising
matter carried by each of these publishers includes classified and display or commercial advertisements. The latter only is involved in this case. Each is largely dependent for financial success upon revenue derived from

FARMER'S GUIDE CO. v. PRAIRIE CO. 273
268

Opinion of the Court.

these advertisements. Most of the advertisers are located
in States other than those in which the papers are published. About ninety per cent. of petitioner's advertisements comes from points outside Indiana and is obtained
by correspondence, traveling solicitors and representatives
located in different parts of the country. Advertisers, in
order to enable petitioner to print their advertisements as
desired, send to it from outside Indiana electrotypes
which, after being used, are returned to the advertiser or
held subject to his order.
The Midwest Unit is an agency incorporated in 1931
and the successor of an organization formed in 1928. Its
officers and directors are representatives of the other
respondents, which make use of that agency, as similarly
use was made of its predecessor, to procure at combination rates identical advertisements to be published in
their seven-farm papers. ' The gist of the complaint is
that respondents entered into a contract, combination and
conspiracy for the purpose of obtaining a monopoly of
the farm paper business, including the publication, circulation and distribution of advertisements of peculiar interest to farmers "within the territory covered " by their
publications; that in furtherance of this contract, combination and conspiracy they conceived a plan and design calculated to break down and destroy " competition
with other farm publications within said territory "; and
that in order to effectuate that purpose they agreed upon
a combination schedule of advertising rates for all their
publications materially below the total of the separate
rates of each.
There was evidence tending to show: That the combination rate for advertisements in respondents' seven
papers was much less than the total of the separate charges
for the same advertisements in any six; that respondents
acting separately and in concert sought and obtained ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

vertisements for all seven papers at rates much less than
the charges would have been for identical advertisements
if, omitting the " Indiana Edition " of " The Prairie
Farmer," they were published in the other six and in petiThus, at least actioner's " Indiana Farmer's Guide."
cording to petitioner's contention, it appears that by
means of the combination rate, respondents, acting together pursuant to agreement to that end, gave a substantial financial advantage to advertisers choosing the
"Indiana Edition " instead of the Farmer's Guide.
Petitioner contends that the ground upon which the
district court directed the verdict was that its activities
were not shown by the evidence to constitute interstate
Respondents'
The record is ambiguous.
commerce.
motion did not specify any grounds upon which they
claimed to be entitled to the peremptory instruction.
There is nothing to indicate the arguments submitted or
authorities cited by either party. The court orally instructed the jury: ' There has been, in my opinion, a
failure on the part of the plaintiff in this case to show
that there has been any restraint of trade as between the
different states . . . That being true, this court would
not have jurisdiction to entertain the case at all, and your
finding, under that state of facts, should be for the
defendants."
Respondents take no issue with the petitioner's assertion of fact. But, impliedly assuming its correctness,
they argue that, while petitioner and respondents are engaged in interstate commerce in the circulation of their
papers, the subject matter of the suit is not that business
but the making of contracts by respondents for the insertion of advertising matter in their papers and that therefore the case is ruled by Blumenstock Bros. v. Curtis Publishing Co., 252 U. S. 436, 438. And they say the trial
court did not err in holding that " there can be no restraint

FARMER'S GUIDE CO. v. PRAIRIE CO.
268

275

Opinion of the Court.

or monopoly of interstate commerce when the subject
matter of the complaint does not relate to interstate commerce at all." Thus, by a construction of the otnplaint
that is utterly untenable, they support the very basis upon
which petitioner maintains the district court rested its
decision. Inferentially their contentions go far to showand in the light of all the circumstance we find-that the
trial court's direction of verdict and its judgment rest
solely upon the ground that petitioner failed to introduce
evidence that its business or that of respondents included
interstate commerce.
Blumenstock Bros. v. Curtis Publishing Co., supra,
gives no support to that ruling. There, an advertising
agency sued a publishing company under § 7 of the Sherman Act for damages alleged to have been caused to the
agency by the publisher's violation of § 2. Defendant
moved to dismiss on the ground that the complaint ,did
not allege a cause of action within the provisions of the
Act. The district court granted the motion and entered
judgment dismissing the suit for want of jurisdiction over
the defendant or the action, and included in the record, a
certificate in accordance with § 238 of the Act of March
3, 1911, 36 Stat. 1157, that the question involved was
whether the facts alleged constituted a cause of action
under the Act.
We said (p. 442): " In the present case . . . the subject-matter dealt with was the making of contracts for the
insertion of advertising matter in certain periodicals belonging to the defendant. It may be conceded that the
circulation and distribution of such publications throughout the country would amount to interstate commerce,
but the circulation of these periodicals did not depend
upon or have any direct relation to the advertising contracts which the plaintiff offered and the defendant refused to receive except upon the terms stated in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

declaration. The advertising contracts did not involve
any movement of goods or merchandise in interstate commerce, or any transmission of intelligence in such commerce. This case is wholly unlike InternationalTextbook
Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91, wherein there was a continuous
interstate traffic in textbooks and apparatus for a course
of study pursued by means of correspondence, and the
movements in interstate commerce were held to bring the
subject-matter within the domain of federal control, and
to exempt it from the burden imposed by state legislation." And after reviewing earlier decisions the opinion
continued (p. 444): "Applying the principles of these
cases, it is abundantly established that there is no ground
for claiming that the transactions which are the basis of
the present suit, concerning advertising in journals to be
subsequently distributed in interstate commerce, are contracts which directly affect such commerce."
The business that is here alleged to have been damaged
is the publication and circulation of these farm papers.
That business includes the obtaining of advertising, the
transportation between States of electrotypes, sent respectively to petitioner and respondents by their customers to be used in setting up advertisements, and the
transportation of substantial quantities of the papers in
interstate commerce. Advertising at compensatory rates
is an essential element. The opinion in Blumenstock
Bros. v. Curtis Publishing Co., supra, assumed that a publishing business such as that now under consideration
would amount to interstate commerce. There is no
ground for the contention that the evidence in this case is
not sufficient to go to the jury on the question of interstate commerce. International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217
U. S. 91, 106-107. Pensacola Tel. Co. v. Western Union,
96 U. S. 1, 9-10. Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257
U. S: 282, 290-291. Di Santo v. Pennsylvania,273 U. S.
34, 36. Eastman Co. v. Southern Photo Co., 273 U. S.
359, 370, 374. Furst v. Brewster, .282 U. S 493, 497. Cf.

-?ARMER'S GUIDE CO. v. PRAIRIE CO.
268

277

Opinion of the Court.

N. Y Life Ins. Co. v Deer Lodge County, 231 U. S. 495,
510, et seq.
The Circuit Court of Appeals did not consider the
ground upon which the district court put the judgment.
It impliedly assumed that petitioner's business does include interstate commerce. It accepted the assertion
that, due to the combination rate of respondents, petitioner lost commercial advertisers. In decision of the
case, the cou't said (p. 5): "We are, however, not satisfied that appellant has established a fact which rested
upon it to prove; viz., that through this combination
there was effected suqh a restraint of interstate commerce as would materially affect the entire farm journal
advertising business. Such is the requirement laid down
in Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 163. The
facts in that case indicated a much greater control of
the gasoline production industry than is present in Ithe
case before us. . . . Likewise, it seems the facts in Appalachian Coals, Inc. v. United States, 288 U. S.344, presented a case of much stronger domination by the combinations that had formed than the one before us . . .
we cannot escape the force of appellees' statement'. If, as held in Standard Oil Co. v. United States
:the owners of 55 per cent. of the gasoline- in the
United States could not by combination obtain a monopoly in violation of the Sherman Act, and if, as held
in Appalachian Coals, Inc. v. United States, . . . the
owners of 74 per cent. of the coal mined in a certain
territory could not obtain a monopoly ih violation of the
Sherman Act, then how can it be held that 5 out of approximately 300 newspapers can obtain a monopoly of
advertising, and how can it be held that newspapers
which do only approximately 15 per cent. of the advertising in the farm journal field can obtain a monopoly?'
In the face of ,these two decisions we agree with Judge
Baltzell that a proper case for the application of sections

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

1, 2, and 7 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act was not established."
The Circuit Court of Appeals makes the relation between the amount of farm journal advertising controlled
by respondents to the total in the entire country a basis
of its judgment affirming that of the district court. But
the complaint charges restraint and attempt to monopolize only in the territory served by respondents' publications, being five-or seven if the Indiana and Dakota
editions are separately counted-out of a total of 23
papers in that territory.' Petitioner claims that during
the five-year period respondents' advertisements ranged
from 44.37 per cent. to 66.92 per cent. of the total in the
territory properly to be taken into account.' The record
I The petition contains the following computation to show the
number and type of farm papers published in the eight states in which
petitioner's and respondents' papers principally circulate:
Total Number'
of Papers

General

Vocational or
Technical

Illinois------------------------Indiana ------------------------

36
10

5
4

31
6

Iowa --------------------------Minnesota ----------------------

10
8

5
2

5

3
1
1
8

1
0
1
5

6
2
1
0
3

77

23

54

Nebraska -----------------------North Dakota ------------------South Dakota -------------------Wisconsin ---------------------Total --------------------2 Petitioner's

computation follows:
Total Lineage
Carried by all
Papers

1928 ----------------------1929 ----------------------1930 ----------------------1931 ----------------------1932 ------------------------

7, 490, 806
6, 844, 629
5,172,535
3,562,695
2,151,376

Total Lineage

Carried by
Respondents'
Papers

3, 323, 256
3,235,364
2,980,963
2,207,650
1,439,753

Per Cent of

Respondents'
Lineage to
Total

44. 37
47. 26
57. 63
61.97
66.92

FARMER'S GUIDE CO. v. PRAIRIE CO.
268

279

Opinion of the Court.

contains no suggestion by respondents or by either court
that petitioner's allegations are not sufficient to charge a
violation of §§ 1 and 2. Its right to recover does not
depend upon the proportion that respondents control of
the total farm paper advertisements in the entire country,
and it was not required to prove that respondents imposed a restraint or attempted monopolization that would
affect all commercial advertisements in all farm papers
wherever published or circulated. The provisions of
§§ 1 and 2 have both a geographical and distributive significance and apply to any part of the United States as
distinguished from the whole and to any part of the classes
of things forming a part of interstate commerce. Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 61.
Our decision in Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283
U. S. 163, has little if any bearing upon the question
whether the facts alleged in the complaint and supported
by the evidence in this case reasonably may be held to
constitute a violation of § 1 or § 2. That was a suit for
injunction, § 4, to prevent an alleged combination from
creating a monopoly or restraining interstate commerce by
control of the part of gasoline produced by cracking. The
district court granted some of the relief sought. The case
came here on defendants' appeal. Slight notice of the
principal features of the case is sufficient to distinguish
it from the one now before us. Three producers, owning
patents for cracking by which the yield of gasoline is
greatly increased, joined with the owner of similar patents
in agreements for the exchange of patent rights and
division of royalties, which were challenged by the Government as a violation of the Act, chiefly upon the ground
that they enabled the parties to the agreement to maintain existing royalties. Cracked gasoline is not distinguishable from the straight run. They are mixed or sold
interchangeably. The output of cracked gasoline was
about 26 per cent. of the total. The record did not show

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 !..

the production of cracked by licensees. It was not showr
that by agreeing on royalties defendants could ..!.Ytroir
price or supply. 'WNe held that the United States was not
entitled to any relief and reversed the decree of the district court.
Appalachian Coals, Inc. v. United States, 288 U. S. 344.
was brought here on appeal from a decree of the distric!
court granting an injunction against a coimbinaticn oi
producers of bituminous coal, in a suit by the United
States under the Sherman Act. It may be taken for
present purposes that the defendants' production was 74.4
per cent. of the total in the territory in which they operated. But this was only about 12 per cent. of the production east of the Mississippi. It was shown that relatively little bituminous coal is consumed in the district
in which the defendants operate mines. They marketed
most of their coal in highly competitive territory." We
held, in view of the conditions disclosed by the record.
that there was no basis for concluding that competition
anywhere would be injuriously affected by the co6perative
plan adopted by the combination, and reversed the decree.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, while recognizing tba'
"there are essential fact differences which make compari
sons of different industries of little value," rested its judg
ment upon respondents' arguments based upon these
cases. But the abridged statements of issues there involved and decided are sufficient to show that respondents'
contention reflected inadequate ascertainment and appreciation of the facts and considerations there held controlling, and that these decisions turned upon the Gover.
ment's failure to prove restraint of compotition, and tha!
they are not in poinA here. It results. therefore. tha.t thb
ground on which the Circuit Comt ,f Appeals rested its
judgment cannot be su-tained.

FARMER'S GUIDE CO. v. PRAIRIE CO. 281
268

Opinion of the Court.

. Petitioner sought this writ upon the ground that the
Circuit Court of Appeals held it bound to prove that
respondents effected such a restraint of interstate commerce as would materially affect the farm journal advertising business in the entire country and misapplied
our decisions in the Standard Oil Company case and the
Appalachian Coals case. Respondents had opportunity
here to show that, although given on untenable grounds,
the judgment below is right and should be affirmed. And,
if by the record they could so demonstrate, this court,
if satisfied beyond doubt that it could do so without prejudice to petitioner, properly might refrain from reversal.
Deery v. Cray, 5 Wall. 795, 807. Vicksburg & Meridiar
Railroad v. O'Brien, 119 U. S. 99, 103. Peck v. Heurich,
167 U. S. 624, 629. But respondents suggest nothing to
justify the direction of verdict and judgment in their
favor. Certainly, in the absence of a claim on their part
that, conceding the errors exposed by this opinion, the
judgment is right, we will not examine the record to discover grounds to sustain it. Cf. Chicago, M. & St. P.
Ry. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167, 179. Hammond v.
Schappi Bus Line, 275 U. S. 164, 170 et seq. We intimate
no opinion whether, upon the question of restraint or

monopoly, or upon the question of injury to petitioner or
its business, the evidence is sufficient to warrant a verdict
in its favor.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals should
be reversed and the case re'manded to the district court
with directions that petitioner be granted a new trial.
Reversed.

