HELVERING v.' MORGAN'S, INC.
112

121

Syllabus.

maintain an actual situs in New York and created one for
them in Pennsylvania. The principle applied in Frick V.
Pennsylvania, supra, 490-494, and in Blodgett v. Silber.
man, 277 U. S. 1, 18, governs this case.
Affirmed.
HELVERING, -COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. MORGAN'S, INC. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 12.

Argued October 11, 12, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

1. Where a corporation, without change of its'accounting year, filed
a separate return for he part of the year 1925 which preceded its
affiliation with. another corporation, and filed a consolidated
return for the remainder of. the year, the periods covered by. the
two returns are not separate " taxable years" but are each a part
of the taxable. year as previously constituted, within the meaning
of § 206 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1926, which permits a taxpayer
to carry over and to deduct during the next two "taxable years"
a net loss sustained "for any taxable year." P. 124 et seq.
2. Section 200 (a) of the same. Act, in providing that "the term
'taxable year' includes, in the case of a fractional part of a
year, the period for which such return is made," does not compel
a different result. Pp. 124-126.
3. While the term "includes " may sometimes be taken as synonymous with " means," it may be used also as the equivalent of "comTherefore, under § 200 (a), the phrase
prehends" or "embraces."
"taxable year" may, where the context requires it, be taken to
embrace all fractional parts of the taxable year; thus, "loss sustained for any taxable year," which § 206 permits to be carried
forward and deducted from gross income for two successive years,
includes a loss shown in a fractional part of the first preceding
taxable year for which separate returns are filed. Pp. 124-126.
4. In view of tle extent to 'which the practice of fixing the tax with
reference to the twelve months" accounting periods of the taxpayer
has been recognized and carried into .the structure of the revenue
acts, only clear and compelling language added to § 200 (a) to define the phrase "taxable year" would justify application of that
phrase in the remedial § 206 to periods of less than twelve months,

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

in such manner as to restrict the benefits which like sections in
earlier revenue acts had extended to taxpayers entitled to enjoy
them. P. 128.
5. Contemporary Treasury practice and Congressional Committee

Reports make it clear that in enacting § 206 (b) the intention
was that a taxpayer filing a return for q part of his taxable year
should stand on the same footing, with respect to carrying over a

loss shown by his return, as the taxpayer who filed a return for
the entire twelve months. Pp. 129-130.
68 F. (2d) 325, affirmed.:
CERTIORARI, 292 U. S. 618, to review a judgment reversing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals which sustained the action of the Commissioner in assessing a deficiency in income tax,

Mr., H. Brian Holland, with. whom Solicitor General
Biggs, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Messrs.
James W. Morris and John H. McEvers were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Lawrence E. Green, with whom Mr. Haskell Cohn
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUsTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This petition for certiorari, 292 U. S. 618, presents for
determination the single question, whether the two separate periods in 1925y for which the taxpayer made separate income taxi returns, constitute two "taxable years"
within the meaning of § 206 of the Revenue Act of 1926,
c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 17, which permits the taxpayer suffering,
iLnet loss in any taxable. year to deduct it from taxable
gains in the two succeeding taxable years.
On June 1, 1925, respondent, Morgan's, Incorporated,
acquired all the voting stock of respondent Haines Furniture Company. Later, and in due course, in compliance
with § 240 (a) and Article 634 of Treasury Regulations 69,
the Haines Company filed its separate income tax return
for tlfie first five months bf 1925 preceding the affiliation,

HELVERING v. MORGAN'S, INC.
121

Opinion of the Court.

and the two affiliated corporations filed a consolidated
return for the last seven months of the year and for the
calendar years 1926 and 1927. During the seven months'
period of 1925, and in 1926 and 1927, Morgan's, Incorporated, reported net income. In the first five and the last
seven months of 1925, and in 1926, the Haines Company
suffered net losses. In 1927 it made a net profit. Its
net loss in the first five months of 1925, before affiliation,
was shown in its separate return for that period. Its net
losses for the last seven months of 1925 and for the year
1926 were shown in the consolidated returns of the two
corporations for those periods and were deducted from
the net income of Morgan's, Incorporated, in the returns
for each of these periods. In the consolidated return for
1927, the Haines Company brought forward its loss for
the first five months of 1925 and deducted it from its-net
incume for 1927, under the provisions of § 206 (b). The
Commissioner disallowed this deduction, and determined
a corresponding deficiency for the taxable year 1927. The
order of the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining his action
was set aside by the Court of Appeals for the first circuit.
68 F. (2d) 325. Like rulings have been made by the
Courts of Appeals in other circuits. Arnold Constable
Corporationv. Commissioner"69 F. (2d) 788 (C. C. A.
2d); Crossett Western Co. v. Commissioner, 73 F. (2d)
307 (C. C. A. 3rd); Joseph & Feiss Co. v. Commissioner,
70 F. .(2d) 804 (C. C. A. 6th). A.different conclusion was
reached in Wishnich-Tumpeer, Inc. v. Commissioner,
App. D. C., Mar. 12, 1934, under the Revenue Adt of 1928,
applied in circumstances and under regulations not involved in the present case.
Section 206 (b) permits the taxpayer to carry forward
a net loss sustained "for any taxable year" and to deduct
it from "net income of the taxpayer for the succeeding
taxable year." If the net loss to be deducted is in excess
of the net income for that 'year, he is permitted to deduct the excess " from the net income of the next succeed-

OCTOBER TERI, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

ing taxable year," referred to in the section as the "third
year." In all cases the deduction is to be made under regulations made by the Commissioner.
It is plain that under this section the Haines Company,
had it not taken advantage of the statutory provision authorizing consolidated returns, would have been permitted to carry over its net loss of 1925 for the next two succeeding years, and as it m~de no profit in 1926. its entire
net loss for 1925 could have been deducted from its profit
in 1927. But the government contends that the taxpayer
has forfeited. that privilege by making a return for the
first five months of 1925, as it was required to do in order
to avail itself of the privilege of making consolidated returns after the date of, affiliation. It is said that the two
periods in 1925, for which separate returns were made,
are two separate taxable years within the meaning of the
tax act, so that the "third year" within which § 206 per-.
mits the deduction is, in this case, the year 1926. This
construction is required, it is urged, by the definition of

taxable year" in § 200 (a), which reads:
"(a) The term 'taxable year' means the calendar year,
or the fiscal year ending during such calendar year, upon.
the basis of whic the net income is computed under section 212 or 232., The term 'fiscal year' means an accounting period of twelve months ending on the last day
of any month other than December. The term 'taxable
year' includes,' in the case of a return made for a fractional part of a year under the provisions of this title or
under regulations prescribed by the Commissioner with
-the approval of the Secretary, the period for which such
return is made. The first taxable year, to be called the
taxable year 1925, shall be the calendar year 1925 or any
fiscal year ending during the calendar year 1925." U. S.
C. App., Title 26, § 931.
The provision that the term "taxable year" "includes" the period of less than -twelve months for which
a separate return is made, when read only with its imme-

HELVERING v. MORGAN'S, INC.
121

Opinion of the Court.

diate context, is not free from ambiguity. It may be admitted that the term " includes" may sometimes-be taken
as synonymous with "means," and that the subsection
may be taken to require, as the Government contends,
that a fractional part of a normal taxable year of twelve
months for which a return is made shall be treated, for
all purposes, as a separate taxable year.
But the phraseology is also open to the.construction
ihat the word "includes" is used as the equivalent of
" comprehends" or "embraces," and that by it the section
merely adopts a familiar device in aid of statutory construction, by providing that wherever other sections refer
to a "taxable year" that phrase may, if the context requires, be taken also to refer to or -to " include " a fractional part of that taxable year, for which a separate return is made.1 If the language is so construed and-ap,,The terms ,i
means" and

" includes

"'are not necessarily synony-

mous. The distinction in their use is aptly pointed by §§ 2, 200 of the
Act itself. Section 2 (a) gives general definitions of ten terms; of these,
three are stated to "include" designated particular instances, the
other seven are stated to " mean" the definitions subsequently given.
§ 200, in addition to the definitions contained in subsection (a), gives
four of which two use the verb "include " and two the verb " means."
That the draftsman used these words in a different sense seems clear.
The natural distinction -vould be that where "means" is employed,
the term and its definition are to be interchangeable equivalents, and
that the verb "includes" imports a general class, some of whose particular instances are those specified in the definition. This view finds
support in § 2 (b), which reads: "The terms 'includes' and ' including' when used in a definition contained in this Act shall not be
deemed to exclude other things otherwise within the meaning of the
term defined." This indicates that the particular is not necessarily a
substitute for the general term, excluding more general meanings included within its scope. "Taxable year" is defined in §-200(a) as
"meaning" a calendar or fiscal year of twelve months, and "including" a fractional part of a year; it hardly can be said that the words
plainly and without ambiguity import that in § 206 (b) the termn
must be taken to mean only a fractional part of the year, to the
exclusion of the alternative definitions of a calendar or fiscal year.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

plied here, "the loss sustained for any taxable year,"
which § 206 permits to be carried forward, would include
the loss sustained for the first five months of the taxable
year for which the separate return was made, and that
loss, as well as any other loss separately reported for the
remaining part of the taxable year, not otherwise absorbed, could be Carried forward to the taxpayer's next two
* succeeding taxable years, here the calendar years of 1926
and 1927. This construction finds support in the final
sentence of the subsection which declares that the "first
taxable year," which by definition "includes" a fractional
part of the year, "shall be the calendar year 1925 or any
fiscal year ending during the calendar year 1925." Obviously the first five months of 1925 could not be the calendar -year 1925. But a return made for those months,
a fractional part of the year, might be treated, within the
meaning of the section, as a return for the calendar year
of which they Are a part. It plainly is not contemplated
that the five months are to be treated as*a taxable year
different from the calendar year.
But the true meaning of a single section of a statute
in a setting as complex ai that of the revenue acts, however precise its language, cannot be ascertained if it be
considered apart from related sections, or if the mind be
isolated from the history of the income tax legislation of
which it is an integral part. See Helvering v. New York
Trust Co., 292 U. S. 455, 464. The revenue acts since
the Sixteenth Amendment have consistently assessed income taxes on the basis of annual accounting periods,
either the calendar year or the different fiscal year which
the taxpayer may adopt. From the beginning these
periods have been known as taxable years and the provisions of the taxing statutes have been drafted and enacted with primary reference to such normal accounting
periods. Burnet v. Sanford & Brooks Co., 282 U. S.
359, 363; Woolford Realty Co. v. Rose, 286 U. S.. 319,

HELVERING v. MORGAN'S, INC.
121

127

Opinion of the Court.

326. The statutes since 1917, and related regulations,
have uniformly required the taxpayer's returns to be made
on the basis of, the twelve months' accounting period
shown by the taxpayer's books, whether it be the calendar
year or a different fiscal year. The change of this period
by the taxpayer from the calendar to a different fiscal
year or the reverse, has been permitted only on consent of
the Commissioner and upon compliance with appropriate
regulations. These dominating features of income tax
legislation 'were incorporated in. the 1926 Act by §§ 212,
232, to which § 200 (a) expressly refers.
"-The definition of %taxable year" in § 200 (a) is therefore incomplete unless it be understood that the period for
which a return is, made, whether it be for a year or a
fractional part of it., is to be related to the twelve months'
accounting period of the taxpayer. Where the return is
for a period of less than twelve months, the year of which
it is a fractional part is the annual accounting period of
the taxpayer,. which is his taxable year. Here the tax-*
payers' taxable year, both before and after the year of
aff$liation, was the calendar year. After affiliation, as be*fore, the affiliated corporations, although filing consolidated returns, continued to be separate taxable units.
The consolidated returns operated only to unite them for
the purpose of tax computation and the equitablP, apportionment betweep them of the tax thus compute&l See
Woolford Realty Co. v. Rose, supra, 328. During 1925,
the year of affiliation, the accounting year of the taxpayers
remained the calendar year andwas their taxable year in
the sense that it was the twelve months' accounting period
for which they were bound ty report inpome and pay taxes,
although permitted td make separate retu'his for fra'ctional
parts of the year in order that the income for the seven
months following affiliation might be reported in a consolidated return. The filing of separate returns for fractional parts of the year did not involve any change of fhe

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

taxpayer's accounting year, and had no effect upon the
actual net income of the taxpayer for that year, or on the
amount of tax payable except insofar as the provisions
for a consolidated return were availed of.
Section 206 (b) appeared in the revenue acts prior to
the addition, in § 200 (b), of the provision that the term
taxable year includes fractions of a year. See §§ 204 (b)
of the Revenue Acts of 1918, c. 18, 40'Stat. 1057, 1061,
and 1921, c. 136, 42 Stat. 227, 231. In the 1921 Act it
allowed to the taxpayer entitled to its benefits two full
accounting periods of twelve months each within which
he might carry over and deduct losses of an earlier taxable period. In view of the extent to which the practice
of -fixing. the tax with reference to the twelve months' accounting periods of the taxpayer has been recognized and
carried into the structure of the revenue acts, only clear
and compelling language added to § 200 (a) to define
the phrase "'taxable year" would' justify application of
that phrase in the remedial section 206 to periods of less
than twelve months, in such manner as to restrict the
benefits which like sections had previously extended to
taxpayers entitled to enjoy them.
It is no answer to the arguments of respondent to say,
as the Government does, that the meaning of the
phrase "taxable year" must be the same throughout the
section. The same meaning need not always be attributed to a phrase which, by hypothesis, has more than one
meaning for purposes of statutory construction. By the
Government's own construction, taxable year as used in
§ 206 is taken to mean the first five months of 1925, the
last seven months of that year, and the entire calendar
year 1926. The question which we have to decide is
whether the two taxable years, within which the taxpayer
is permitted to deduct his loss, are to be taken as the two
taxable years of the taxpayer, here the calendar years
1926 and 1927, even though the statute includes in the

HELVERING v. MORGAN'S, INC.
121

Opinion of the Court.

loss to be deducted that incurred in the first five months
of the calendar year 1925.
The provision of § 200 (a), that the term taxable year
includes fractions of a year for which a return is required,
first appeared in the like section 200 (a) of the Revenue
Act of 1924, c. 234, 43 Stat. 253, 254. The corresponding
sections 200 of the 1918 and the 1921 Acts made no reference to fractions of a year for which a return is made.
They defined the taxable year as the twelve months of
the calendar year or of the fiscal year on the basis of
which the net income was computed, although §§ 226 and
240 of each act and related regulations provided in special
circumstances for returns for a fractional part of a year.
Before the 1924 Act the Commissioner had ruled that a
fractional part of a taxable year for which a tax return
was made was not a taxable year, and that in consequence the privilege granted to taxpayers by § 204 (b)
of those acts of carrying over a loss sustained "for any
taxable year" to the next or the two succeeding taxable
years did not extend to losses shown by a return for a fraction of a year. This ruling was sustained-by numerous
decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals. See Takoma
Grocery Co. v. Commissioner, 1 B. T. A. 1062; Arthur
Walker & Co. v. Commissioner, 4 B. T. A. 151; Dorsey
Drug Co.v. Commissioner, 7 B. T. A. 229; Turners Falls
Power & Electric Co. v. Commissioner, 9 B. T. A. .435;
General Box Corp. v. Commissioner, 22 B. T. A. 725, 729.
The House Ways and Means Committee, in reporting the
bill which became the Revenue Act of 1924 explained the
amendment to § 200 as follows: "In subdivision (a) of
this section the term 'taxa0le year' is defined to include
a period of less than a year when a return is made for
such period. Under the existing law the use of the term
'taxable year' in the 'net loss' section and other sections
has been construed not to cover the case of a return made
by'a taxpayer for a fractional part of a year, with the re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

sult that the benefits of such section are denied to taxpayers who are required by law to make a return for a
fractional part of a year." Report 179, Ways and Means
Committee, 68th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 10. The report of
the Senate Finance Committee uses identical language.
Report398, Finance Committee, 68th Cong., 1st Sess.,
p. 10.
The 1918 Act had permitted the carrying over of the
loss for a single taxable year. The 1921 Act had extended
the privilege for a period of two full years. There is no
suggestion in the committee reptrts that by the 1924
amendment of § 200, in order to extend the benefits, conferred by § 204 in earlier acts, to the taxpayer who makes
a -return for a fractional part of his taxable year, there
was the purpose to withhold from him aniy of these benefits. The implication is clear that there was not, and
that the intention was that a taxpayer filing a return for
a part of his'taxable year should stand on the same foot,ng, with respect to carrying.,over a loss shown by his
retNirn, as the taxpayer who had filed a return for the
entire twelve months of the same 'taxable year. This
intention was made effective by the addition to § 200 of
words which, in terms, made the phrase "taxable year"
as used in § 206 include " in th6 case of a return for a
fractional part of a year," that part of the taxable year
for which the return is made. Thus, under § 206 the loss
foe a taxable year which may be carried over includes the
loss for the fractional part of the taxable year of the taxpayer, for which a sepayate return is required. The next
succeeding taxable years to which the loss may be carried
are likewise the taxable years of the taxpayer, here the
calendar years 1926 and 1927.
It is of some significance that Article 634 of Treasury
Regulations 69, which in case a consolidated return is
made requires a separate return for the fractional part
of a year not included in the consolidated return, uses the

McNALLY v. HILL, WARDEN.
Syllabus.

121

phrase "taxable year" as referring to the taxable year
of the taxpayer, and speaks of the fraction of a year for
which a separate 'return is made as "the portion of the
taxable year" during which the taxpayers were not affiliated. It does not refer to the return as the return for a
taxable year, but only as a return for a fractional part of
the taxable year, and such returns are required to be made
and the tax is required to be paid at the same time as in
the case of a return for the entire taxable year.
It is unnecessary to consider the effect to be given to
returns required for a fractional part of the year, where
the iaxpayer changes his taxable year from a calendar
year to a different fiscal year, or vice versa, with respect
to which different considerations may enter. See Wishnich-Tumpeer, Inc. v. Commissioner, supra.
Affirmed.

McNALLY v. HILL, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 15.

Argued October 12, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

1. A prisoner who had been convicted and sentenced on three counts
of an indictment; the sentence on the first count running ,encrrently with that on the second, and the sentence on the secdnd and
third counts running consecutively, petitioned for a writ of habeas
corpus, asserting the invalidity of the conviction and senten'ce on
the third count, and assigning as reason for the granting of the writ
that consideration by the Parole Board of any application for a parole was precluded as -a result of the void sentence. It was conceded that the sentence on the second count, the validity of which
was not challenged, had not ex~ired and that service of sentence on
the third had not yet begun. Held that, as the detention under the
-sentence on the second count. was lawful, the writ of habeas corpus
could not be used to inquire into the validity of the conviction
under the third count. P. 135.
2. The meaning of the term habeas corpus and the appropriate use of
the writ in the federal courts must be ascertained by reference to

