62

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

sary to allege and show some .dutyin respect thereto; but
when charged with wilful effort to defeat the tax by presenting a false return no allegation of duty to make the
return was necessary. The alleged act sufficiently indicated appellee's criminal intent. Certainly we can find
no legislative purpose to exempt from punishment one
who actively endeavors to defeat a tax. And because
some officers are said to be included in the term "person," all other individuals are not necessarily excluded.
Thus construed, all parts of the statute may have effect, and the manifest purpose of Congress will not be
obstructed.
Reversed.
GILLIS, RECEIVER, v. CALIFORNIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 28. Argued October 8, 9, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.
1. Power in the District Courts to authorize their receivers in conservation proceedings to transact local business without compliance
with local statutes obligatory on all others, may be withheld by
Congress. P. 65.
2. Under 28 U. S. C., § 124; Jud. Code, § 65, a receiver for a corporation producing and distributing gasoline in California was under a
duty to take out a license and give a bond with surety to secure
payment of taxes, pursuant to state law, and could not be
absolved by order of the federal court that appointed him. P. 65.
3. There is no merit in the suggestion that observance of the state law
in this case would give an unlawful preference to the State over the
United States in respect of gasoline taxes. P. 66..
4. Even though it be impossible in the circumstances for the receiver
to furnish the bond required by the state law, this is pnot an excuse
for operating the business in disregard of that law and hence in violation of the Act of Congress. P. 66.
69 F. (2d) 746, affirmed.

GILLIS v. CALIFORNIA.
Opinion of the Court.

62

.CERTIORARI,

292 U. S. 620, to review the reversal of an

order of the District Court authorizing and directing the
receiver of a corporation to continue operations- in the
production, sale and distribution of gasoline without giving security to the State for payment of gasoline taxes.
Mr. Ernest C. Carman for petitioner.
Mr. H. H. Linney, Deputy Attorney General of California, with whom Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General, was
on the brief, -for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE McAEYNoIDs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
California laws make it unlawful for -any person to act
as a distributor of motor vehicle fuel without first obtaining a license from the Board of Equalization and executing bond conditioned to pay taxes and observe other
requirements. Statutes 1923, 571; Ibid. 1931, c. 85, 105'
c. 86, 119; c. 793, 1652; c. 997, 2001; c. 1082, 2288.
"Distributor " includes persons, firms and corporations
refining, manufacturing or producing motor oil and distributing it within the state.
Section 65,Jud. Code, (Title 28 U. S. C., § 124; Act of
March 3, 1887, c. 373, § 2, 24 Stat. 554; Aug. 13, 1888, c.
866, § 3, 25 Stat..436; Mar. 3, 1911, c. 231, § 65, 36 Stat.
1104):"Whenev'er in any cause pending in any court of the
United States there shall be a receiver, or manager in
possession of any property, such receiver or manager shall
manage and operate such property according to the requirements of the ,valid laws of the state in which such
property shall be situated, in the same manner that the
owner or possessor thereof would be bound to do if in
possession thereof. Any receiver or manager who shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

willfully violate any provision of this 3ection shall be
fined not more than $3,000, or imprisoned not more than
one year, or both."
The District Court, Southern District of California, in
a cause instituted there for the purpose of conserving the
assets of Western Oil and Refining Company and giving
opportunity for reorganization, appointed petitioner Gillis
receiver, April 4, 1931. Immediately after assuming the
duties of the office, as required by local statutes, he procured license and executed bond with the Fidelity and
Deposit Company of Maryland as surety. Thereafter he
carried on the business of the company-manufacturing,
refining, producing and distributing gasoline-and co5perated with creditors and stockholders concerning reorganization plans.
In 1933 the Fidelits and Deposit Company refused to
continue upon the bond after a specified day. Petitioner
endeavored to find another acceptable surety. Failing in
this he. reported the circumstances to the court; pointed
out his inability to comply with the local statutes; and
stated that unless the business could continue sulbstantially as theretofore, the purpose of the receivership would
be frustrated. He asked authority .to proceed Without
bond or license; otherwise, he affirmed, final- liquidation
at ft~terial loss to all concerned would be necessary. The.
Attorney General, speaking for the State, objected. Tlie
court ordered and directed petitioner" to continue his operations as such ,Receiver (including the production, distribution and sale of gasoline or motor vehicle fuel in"
th6
State of California) after termination of the hereinbefore
mentioned bond, or -withdrawal therefrom of the surety
thereon, for the payment of gasoline taxes . . .without
any such bond or the giving of security in any other manner for the payment of such gasoline taxes and without
any license

. .

GILLIS v. CALIFORNIA.
62

Opinion of the Court.

. The Circuit Court of Appeals held § 65 of Judicial Code
applicable and controlling, and reversed the challenged
order- The result we think is correct; the judgment must
be affirmed.
While the precise point now presented does not seem to
have been definitely decided, the power of Congress to
prescribe duties and obligations of receivers has been often
recognized. United States v. Ha ris, 177 U. S. 305, 308;
Erb v. Morasch, 177 U. S. 584, 585; Central Trust Co. v.
St. Louis, A. & T. Ry. Co., 40 Fed, 426, 427; Hornsby v.
Eddy, 56 Fed. 461, 462; Felton v. Ackerman, 61 Fed. 225,
227; Peirce v. Van Dusen, 78 Fed. 693, 701; Fidelity Title
& Trust Co. v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 219 Fed. 614,
616; Westinghouse Elec. & Mfg. Co. v. Binghamton Ry.
Co., 255 Fed. 378, 382; Mercantile Trust Co. v. Tennessee
Central R. Co., 286 Fed. 425, 428; Crawford v. Duluth
St. Ry. Co., 60 F. (2d) 212, 214.
There is no suggestion of repugnance between the State
Constitution and the Motor Vehicle Fuel Statute. And
the latter must be accepted as valid law of the State
within the ambit of § 65, Judicial Code, unless its provisions conflict with the Constitution or laws of the United
States.
Petitioner insists that there is such disagreement since
the state •statute diminishes the power of the U. S. District Court to direct its receiver to operate the business of
the company. Also because, by requiring bond to secure
taxes, the statute creates an unlawful preference of State
over the United States in respect of collections. And
finally because, in the circumstances here presented, it ii
impossible for the receiver to comply with the prescribed
requirements; and, unless relieved from them, he "must
cease receivership operations that are essential to the conservation of assets and the general purposes of the receivership."

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

Manifestly the diminution, if any, of powers possessed
by District Courts prior to its enactment results from
§ 65, Judicial Code. The ultimate inquiry is whether ongress can withhold from District Courts the power to authorize receivers ir,conservation proceedings to transact local business, contrary to state statutes obligatory
upon all others.
That Congress has such power we think is clear, and
the language of § 65 leaves no doubt of its exercise.
The accepted doctrine is that the lower federal courts
were created by the Acts of Congress and their powers
and duties depend upon the acts which called them into
existence, or subsequent ones which extend or limit. Ex
parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505,510; Bessette v. Conkey Co.,
194 U. S. 324, 327. Whatever may be the inherent power
of a court incident to a grant of jurisdiction-Michaelson
v. United States, 266 U. S. 42,' 66-there seems no ground
whatever for saying that Congress cannot withhold or
withdraw from courts of equity the right to empower receivers in conservation proceedings to disregard local
statutes.
The suggestion that to require petitioner to observe
local laws would give the State inequitable priority over
the United States as to taxes lackS merit. If any such
result should follow it would accompany permissive action
of Congress.
And if the receiver cannot continue to carry on the
Company's business according to the plain direction of
Congress, he must pursue some other course permitted
by law.
The same statute which required receivers to observe
the laws of the State, gave permission to sue them in
state courts under stated circumstances. It was enacted
more than forty years ago and seems to have been commonly regarded as within congressional authority,

McCANDLESS v. FURLAUD.
62

Argument for Respondents.

We axe not dealing here with the acknowledged power
of courts to protect property in their custody.. In re
Tyler, 149 U. S. 1,64, and similar cases are not pertinent.
Affirmed.

McCANDLESS, RECEIVER, v. FURLAUD

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 11.

Argued October 11, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

1. An objection to the capacity of the receiver of a corporation, appointed by a federal court, to sue in a federal court in another State
under an ancillary appointment made on his direct ex parte application and not as an incident to an independent bill; is an objection
that might have been remedied if timely made in the court of first
instance and is waived if made for the first time on appeal. P. 73.
2. The ourt in which the receiver sued having jurisdiction of both the
subjct matter and the parties, the objection to the manner of his
appointment goes not to the court's jurisdiction but to his legal
capacity as plaintiff. P. 74.
3. Booth v. Clark, 17 How. 322, distinguished. P. 75
. 68 F. (2d) 925, reversed.

292 U. S. 617, to'review the reversal of a
decree in a suit bo ught by McCandless as ancillary receiver. The review here was to be limited to the questions pertaining to the validity of the appointrnent'of the
petitioner as ancillary receiver, and his right as such to
maintain this suit.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Ralph Royall for petitioner.
Mr. Louis B. Eppstein,; with whom Messrs. Ira W.
Hirshfield and Louis J. Altkrug were on the brief, for
respondents.
The order purporting to appoint McCandless ancillary

receiver was absolutely void. There was nothing before

