HEGEMAN FARMS CORP. v. BALDWIN.

163

Argument for Appellant.

HEGEMAN FARMS CORP. v. BALDWIN

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 27.

Argued October 8, 9, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

1. By orders issued under the New York Milk Control'Statute dealers
were required to pay producers of milk a minimum price per quart
and were subject to higher minimum resale prices. Compctition
made it impossible for the dealer in this case to sell for more than
the resale minimum, and the "spread " or difference between that
and the minimum purchase price was not enough to cover the cost
of its operations. Held that upon these facts only, with nothing to
show the degree of efficiency with which its business was conducted,
there is no ground to conclude that the price limits are arbitrary
and therefore in violation of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 170,
2. The Fourteenth Amendment does not protect a business against
tht hazards of competition. Public Service C.omm'n v. Great
Northern Utilities Co., 289 U. S. 130. P. 170.
3. One who complains that regulations promulgated under legislative
authority by a state board are unreasonable and oppressive, should
seek relief by resisting the regulations before that board or by
applying to the board to modify them, before bringi*ng suit.
Petersen Baking Co. v Bryan, 290 U. S. 570. P. 172.
6 F. Supp. 297, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, dismissing the bill in a suit attacking an order fixing minimum prices under the New York Milk Control

Act.
Mr. Leonard Acker, with whom Mr. Samuel Rubinton
was on the brief, for appellant.
The orders are unconstitutional, since the prices fixed
were such as to prevent plaintiff from earning a fair return on the present reasonable value of its properties less
depreciation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Appellant.

*293 U. S.

The operating costs of plaintiff are very reasonable and
indicate a well managed and efficient business unit.
Theoretically plaintiff could sell its milk at any price,
but actually competition.- fixed the designated "minimum" as the highest selling price.- The "spread" between the purchase price fixed by defendants and the
selling price which economic forces fixed. at the minimum
selling price designated by defendanti is insufficient, as
the District Court found,. to afford- tq plaintiff' a fair return. This, in principle, is exactly the situation in every
" rate "'case in which a rate is held unconstitutional.
The District Court took the view that this suit presented
no more than the case of a milk dealer faced with competition,. unable to sell its. milk above the price. fixed by
that competition, and thus unable to earn a fair return.
This view overlooks that tie aS'atute and defendants'
orders took from plaintiff the pbwei it previously possessed
to bargain with milk producers as to the purchase price
of milk.
It is the ordinary business risk for a vendor to be unable
to make a fair return by 'reason of competition alone and
to be forced out of business; but it is an altogether different proposition for the State to intervene and by means of
price regulation prevent, the vendor from making a fair
return and to destroy his business.
The effect of defendants' orders is to force out of business the small dealers and to-lave thefield to a few large
companies, and this result will frustrate the very purpose
of AtheState
statute.
may not properly impose confiscatory
rates
merely because they will not destroy the entire industry, but Will eventually lead to a monopolistic control
of the market and a higher price to the ultimate consumer.
The primary Purpose of the statute, under which defendants isu4 their orders, is the protection of the dairy
farmers of New York. The resultant monopoly of dis-

HEGEMAN FARMS CORP. v. BALDWIN.
163

165

Argument for Appellant.

tribution in the hands of a few large companies will tend
to destroy large numbers of milk producers.
A statute is valid only if " the means selected shall have
a real and substantial relation to the object sought to be
attained." Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502; Adair v.
United States, 208 U. S. 161. This rule should apply
equally to administrative orders issued under a statute.
No fair analogy is presented between health measures
and defendants' confiscatory price-fixing orders.
'In testing the validity of a measure which regulates the
use of private property, it is the degree of regulation
which is the important consideration and not the solitary
factor that the law is a regulatory one. Pennsylvania
Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S. 393, 415. Even the usual
zoning law has been treated as invalid in its application
to a particular owner when its operation is such as to deprive such owner of all beneficial use of his property.
Eaton v. Sweeney, 257 N. Y. 176; Dowsey v. Kensington,
257 N. Y. 221.
In every case in which a State is allowed to fix the rates
which may be charged for a commodity or a service, the
underlying theory is that such fixation of rates is a part
of the police power of the State. Union Dry Goods Co. v.
Public Service Comim'n, 248 U. S. 372,375; German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Kansas, 233 U. S. 389.
Defendants' orders do not, in fact, tend to promote the
public welfare. and their effect is to contravene the purpose of the Milk Control Law. But even though they
were beneficial to the public instead of detrimental, such
fact would not validate tj'hem, in view of their confiscatory
nature. Vide Holmes, J., in Pennsylvania Coal Co. v.
3lahon, supra, at p. 416; Paducah v. Paducah Ry. Co.,
261 U. S. 267, 272.
The purpose and effect of the statute are to deprive
*the milk producers of other States of the competitive advantage over New York producers possessed by them.

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Appellees.

293 U. S.

The law therefore discriminates against the products of
other States and is unconstitutional.
Plaintiff did not .waive its right to attack the constitutionality of the statute or of defendants' orders by applying for a license under the statute.
Mr. Henry S. Manley, ;,ith whom Mr. John J. Bennett,
Jr., Attorney General of New York, and Mr. Henry Epstein, Solicitor General, were on -the brief, for appellees.
The orders are not unconstitutional. The resale price
was only a minimum and nothing in the order fixing that
price restrained appellant from asking a greater price.
At what point should the minimum price be established? Clearly it should not be fixed high enough to
yield a fair return on the operations of the least efficient
dealers. That is the highest tolerable point for fixing a
maximum price.
Should. the minimum be high enough to yield a fair return to dealers of average efficiency? There is something
to be said for and against thal conclusion. Perhaps the
minimum nowNvolved was that high. There is no finding that the appellant is of average efficiency, although
there is some material in the moving papers which probably is intended to yield that inference.
Fixing ,the minimum price at the point where only the
most-efficient dealers can earn a fair return would seem
to be the course most in the public interest. The pressure of competition will then compel efficiency as a necessary condition for survival. We submit that there is no
constitutional objection-to a minimum price fixed so low.
Indeed, we believe that the very nature of a minimum
price is such that the failure to fix any minimum price
whatever is no constitutional grievance.
Difficulties lie in the way of fixing a minimum resale
..price high enough to enable appellant to operate profitably; without at the same time compelling other dealers
to operate at an outrageous profit.

HEGEMAN FARMS CORP. v. BALDWIN.
163

Opinion of the Court.

Essentially, appellant's grievance Is against the order
fixing a minimum price which it must pay producers for
milk. But the power to fix this can scarcely be questioned since Nebbia v. New York, 291. U. S. 502. The
attack must. be upon the reasonableness of the minimum
price fixed. Appellant does not support such an attack
otherwise than by the inference derived from its own
failure to make a profit. We submit that a constitutional case is not made out so easily. Why does appellant infer that its loss is a direct result of only one factor
in its costs? Apparently because it is a novelty to have
that cost fixed. Appellant does not allege its labor costs
or taxes or freight rate§ as a constitutional grievance.
The statute is not unconstitutional in any matter of
which appellant can complain..
We respectfully submit that the appellant should have
pursued its administrative remedies provided by statute
before seeking the aid of a federal court of equity (Gotham Mfg. Co. v. Tax Comm'n, 266 U. S. 265; Chicago,
M., St, P. & P. Ry. Co. v. Risty, 276 U. S. 567), and that
it should not have pretended to be obeying the orders
while really disobeying them; its conduct should disentitle
it to relief on constitutional grounds in a court of equity.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court. "
In this suit for an injunction, the appellant, a wholesale
milk dealer, contests the validity under the Fourteenth
Amendment of orders of the New York Milk Control
Board limiting the price of milk. A District Court of
three judges, organized in accordance with § 266 of the
Judicial Code (28 U. S. C. § 380), has denied a motion by
the complaiiant for .an interlocutory injunction, and
granted a motion by the defendants to dismiss* the bill.
6 F. Supp. 297. No testimony was taken, but for the purposes of the two motions certain facts were stipulated and

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

embodied in findings. Nothing important is there added
to what is stated in the complaint. From the final decree
there has been an appeal to this court. 28 U. S. C. § 380.
The attempt is made in the bill to state two causes of
action, pleaded in separate counts. The first cause of action assails the Milk Control Act (N. Y. Laws 1933, c. 158)
as a whole, and was dismissed on the authority of Nebbia
v. New York, 291 U. S. 502. It has not been pressed in
this Court, and must be treated as abandoned.' The second cause of action, the only one contested here, assumes
provisionally the validity of the statute and assails the
orders made under it in their application to appellant. On
that head the bill recounts the orders of the Board prescribing a minimum selling price to be charged by dealers
to their customers and also a minimum buying price to
be paid by dealers to producers. The milk sold by the appellant is known as Grade B. At the time of the trial
the minimum wholesale price for milk of that grade in
the City of New York was nine cents per quart, except
that dealers such as the appellant marketing their product
without a well established trade name might sell one cent
a quart below the minimum for others. By the same
orders the minimum price for fluid milk to be paid to producers was fixed at five cents a quart. A separate schedule of the orders gives the rates for fluid cream. The
complainant's license was revoked by the Board after
notice and a hearing because of underpayments to producers. The license was, however, to be reinstated upon
payment of the difference ($23,000). The bill prays a
decree cancelling the revocation with exemption for the
future.
The question on this appeal is whether the allegations
of the bill, admitted in the stipulation, but not substan"The Act of 1933 has been amended and continued by Laws of
1934, Chap. 126.

HEGMAN FARMS CORP. v. BALDWIN.
163

Opinion of the Court.

tially enlarged, make out a cause: of action. For an understandg of the complainant's position both in its economic and in its legal aspects, the fact is of critical importance that there has been no attenmpt by the Board
to fix a maximum price in respect of any of the transactions subject to its regulatory power. What is fixed is a
minimum only. None the less, the competition among
dealers is so keen that in practice the legal minimum is
the maximum that the appellant is able to charge. The
"spread" between what must be paid to the producers
and what can be collected from the oustomers is so small
that it "is insufficient in amount to afford plaintiff a fair
return on the present fair value of the properties devoted
by it to its milk business less depreciation." This the
bill and findings state. They. tell us also that the properties have a value of more than $450,000. They do not
tell us whether the appellant ran its business with reasonable efficiency when compared with others in its calling. They do not even tell us whether it was earning a
fair return on its investment before the orders were
adopted. The omission is the more significant because,
according to official records, the " spread" has been increased, instead of being diminished, through the operation of control. Report of the Milk Control Board, March
1934, pp. 17, 18.2 For all that appears upon this record,
a change of the minimum prices would availthe appellant
nothing if a corresponding increase or reduction were *allowed to its competitors. It might still be driven to the
wall without the aid of a differential that would neutralIf allowances are made for the additional. milk which, because
of the tightening-up of the classification for Class I milk occurring on
February 16, 1934, must be included in Class 1, the milk dealers'
spread at this time is approximately 0.12 cents per quart greater'
2"

than it was just before the Board was created."
This statement in the report is followed by schedules which con-

tain supporting data.

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

ize inequalities of capacity orpower. If different minima would help, the pleading leaves us in the dark as to
what those minima should be. There is no statement
that a different selling price could be fixed with fairness
to consumers, or a different purchasing price with fairness
to producers. The appellant's grievance amounts to this,
that it is operating at a loss, though other dealers more
efficient or economical or better known to the public may
be operating at a profit.
A bill of complaint so uncertain in aim and so meagre
in particulars falls short of the standard of candor and
precision set up by our decisions. Public Service
Comm'n v. Great Northern Utilities Co., 289 U. S. 130,
136; Aetna Ins. Co. v. Hyde, 275 U. S. 440, 447. True
the appellant is losing money under the orders now in
force. 'For anything shown in the bill it was losing money
before. For anything there shown other dealers at the
same prices may now be -earning profits; at all events
they are content, or they would be led by self-interest to
raise the present level. We are unable to infer' from
these fragmentary data that there has been anything perverse or arbitrary in the action of the Board. To make
the selling level higher might:be unfair to the consumers;
to make the purchasing level lower might bring ruin to
producers. -The appellant would- hale us say that minimum prices must be changed whenever a particular dealer
can show that the effect of the schedule in its application
to himself is to deprive him of a profit. This is not
enough to subject administrative rulings to revision by
the courts. If the designation of a minimum price is
within the scope of the police power, expenses or losses
made necessary thereby must be borne as an incident, unless the order goes so far beyond the needs of the occasion as to be turned into an act of tyranny Nothing of
the kind is charged. The Fourteenth Amendment does
not protect a business against the hazards of competition.

HEGEMAN FARMS CORP. v. BALDWIN.
163

171

Opinion of the Court.

Public Service Comm'n v. Great Northern Utilities Co.,
supra, at p. 135. It is from hazards of that order, and not
from restraints of law capriciously imposed, that the appellant seeks relief. The refuge from its ills is not in constitutional immunities.
Much is made of a supposed analogy between the
plight in which the appellant finds itself and that of public utilities subjected to maximum rates that do not yield
a fair return. But the analogy, when scrutinized, is seen
to be unreal. A public utility in such circumstances has
no outlet of escape. If it is running its business with
reasonable economy, it must break the law or bleed to
death. But that is not the alternative offered where the
law prescribes a minimum. 4n outlet is then available
to the regulated business, an outlet that presumably will
be utilized whenever use becomes expedient. If the price
is not raised, the reason must be that efficient operators
find that they can get along without a change. Either
that must be so, or else, as was pointed out in the opinion below, the industry will perish. The bill does not
suggest that such a catastrophe is imminent. True, of
course, it is that the weaker members of the group (the
marginal operators or even others above the margin) may
find themselves unable to keep pace with the stronger,
but' it is their comparative inefficiency, not tyrannical
compulsion, that makes them laggards in the race.
Whether a wise statecraft will favor or condemn this
exaltation of the strong is a matter of legislative policy
with which courts are not concerned. To pass judgment
on it, there is need that the field of vision be expanded
to tike in all the contestantsiin the race for economic
welfare, and not some of them. only. The small dealer
may suffer, but the small producer may be helped, and
an industry vital to the state thus rescued from extinction. Such, at any rate, is the theory that animates the
statute, if we look to the official declaration of the purpose

172

oCTOBER TERM, 1934.
293 U.S.

Syllabus.

of its framers. Nebbia v. New,:York, supra, pp. 515, 516.
The question is not for us whether the workings of the
law have verified the theory or disproved it. *Atleast,
a law so animated is rescued from the reproach :of favorit-'
ism for the powerful to the prejudice of the lowly. If
the :orders made thereunder are not arbitrary fiats, the courts will stand aloof..
The statute (N.Y. Laws 1933, c. 158, § 312 [d] [f])
contains provisions whereby a dealer dissatisfied with any
administrative order may be heard in opposition, or may
apply to the Board :afterwards to modify its ruling. This
is an administrative remedy which in the one form or the
other the appellant should have utilized before resorting.
-to a suit. P. F. PetersenBaking Co. v. Bryan, 290 U. S:
570, 575. -There is no statement that it did so.
The decree should be
Affirined.
MR.JUSTICE SUTHERLAND concurs in

the result.

ZELLERBACH PAPER CO. v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO,THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 37 and 38. Argued October 17, 1934.-Decided November 5,
1934.
1. The Revenue Act of 1921, approved November 23, but effective
January 1 of that year, did not nullify a return by a corporation
for its fiscal year ending April 30, 1921, filed in July 1921; in effect,
it adopted and renewed the return retroactively from January 1.
and the time within which the Commissioner might make 4 de*Together with. No. 39, National Paper Products Co. v. Helvering,

Commissibmer of Internal Revenue, certiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the'Ninth Circuit.

