McNALLY v. HILL, WARDEN.
Syllabus.

121

phrase "taxable year" as referring to the taxable year
of the taxpayer, and speaks of the fraction of a year for
which a separate 'return is made as "the portion of the
taxable year" during which the taxpayers were not affiliated. It does not refer to the return as the return for a
taxable year, but only as a return for a fractional part of
the taxable year, and such returns are required to be made
and the tax is required to be paid at the same time as in
the case of a return for the entire taxable year.
It is unnecessary to consider the effect to be given to
returns required for a fractional part of the year, where
the iaxpayer changes his taxable year from a calendar
year to a different fiscal year, or vice versa, with respect
to which different considerations may enter. See Wishnich-Tumpeer, Inc. v. Commissioner, supra.
Affirmed.

McNALLY v. HILL, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 15.

Argued October 12, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

1. A prisoner who had been convicted and sentenced on three counts
of an indictment; the sentence on the first count running ,encrrently with that on the second, and the sentence on the secdnd and
third counts running consecutively, petitioned for a writ of habeas
corpus, asserting the invalidity of the conviction and senten'ce on
the third count, and assigning as reason for the granting of the writ
that consideration by the Parole Board of any application for a parole was precluded as -a result of the void sentence. It was conceded that the sentence on the second count, the validity of which
was not challenged, had not ex~ired and that service of sentence on
the third had not yet begun. Held that, as the detention under the
-sentence on the second count. was lawful, the writ of habeas corpus
could not be used to inquire into the validity of the conviction
under the third count. P. 135.
2. The meaning of the term habeas corpus and the appropriate use of
the writ in the federal courts must be ascertained by reference to

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioner.

293 U. S.

the common law and to the decisions of this Court interpreting and
applying the common law principles which define its use when
authorized by the statute. P. 136.
3. The Habeas Corpus Act of 1679, 31 Car. II, c..2, and the decisions
of the English courts interpreting it have been accepted by this
Court as authoritative guides in defining the principles which control the use of the writ in the federal courts. P. 136.
4. The writ of habeas corpus may not be used in the federal courts as
a means of securing the judicial decision of a question which, even
if determined in the prisoner's favor, could hot result in his immedate release. P. 136.
5. A sentence which the prisoner has not begun to serve cannot be the
cause of restraint which the statute makes subject tq judicial inquiry. P. 137.
6. This Court has consistently refused, wherever the issue has been
presented,, to ieview upon habeas coipus questions which do not
concern- the lawfulness of the detention. P. 139.
69 F. (2d) 38, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 292 U. S. 619, tb review a judgment affirming a judgment dismissing a petition for a writ of habeas
corpus.
Mr. John S. Wise, Jr., submitted for petitioner.
The indictment charges no crime under the laws of the
United States.
The omission of allegation that the automobile was in
interstate commerce when sold is fatal to the indictment;
conviction under it gave the court no jurisdiction to impo$e sentence; and the question did not have to be raised
in limine.
The District Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of New York had no jurisdiction to try or sentence the petitioner for the sale of an automobile in New
Jersey
The argument that the subject can not be brought up
on habeas corpus is specious for it involves the liberty of
a citizen which can not be disposed of by refinements of
procedure.

McNALLY v. HILL, WARDEN.
131

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Justin Miller, with whom Solicitor General Biggs
and Messrs. Harry.S. Ridgely and W. Marvin Smith were
on the brief, for respondent.
The count in controversy sufficiently discloses an offense within federal cognizance to render it immune from
successful attack on habeas corpus.
The application for the writ of habeas corpus is premature
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered, the opinion of the Court.

Certiorari, 292 U., S. 619, brings this case here for review of a judgment~of the Circuit Court of Appeals directing dismissal, on the merits, of a petition for a writ
of habeas corpus. Petitioner was convicted and senfenced to be imprisoned upon two indictments framed
under the Conspiracy Act of May 17, 1879, c. 8, 21 Stat.
.4, as amended by Act of March 4, 1909, c. 321, § 37, 35
Stat. 1088, 1096, U. S. C., Title 18, § 88, and the National
Motor Vehicle Theft Act of October 29, 1919, c. 89, 41
Stat. 324, 325, U. S. C.; Title 18, § 408. The indictment,
.which alone need be considered here, ws in three cQunts:
the first charged petitioner and others.with conspiracy to
violate the provisions of -the Motor Vehicle Theft Act;
the second, the interstate transportation of a, stolen motor
vehicle; and the .third, which is assailed here, the 'violation of § 4 of the Motor Vehicle Theft Act,. by the: sale
in New Jersey of a motor vehicle -which had been stolen
in New York, "knowing that :the vehicle had been so
stolen and transported in interstate. commerce." Petitioner was' sentenced for a term Of two years on the first
count and for terms of four years each on 'the second and
*hird counts, the sentence on the first to ruit concurrently
with that on the second, the sentence on the second and
third to run consecutively. Service of sentence was
begun on November 30, 1931. It is conceded that the

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

sentence on the second count, less allowances for good
behavior, has not expired and that service of sentence on
the third has not yet begun.
On April 6, 1933, the petitioner filed his petition for
writ of habeas corpus in the district court for the middle
district of Pennsylvania. He assailed the conviction and
sentence on the third count as void. No attack was made
on the conviction and sentence on the other counts, but
the petition advanced as reasons for granting the writ
that under the Parole Act of June 25, 1910, c. 387, § 1,
36 Stat. 819, as amended by the Act of January 23, 1913,
c. 9, 37 Stat. 650; U. S. C., Tit. 18, § 714, petitioner was
eligible to apply for parole, to be granted, in the discretion. of the Parole Board, after serving one-third of his
sentence; that he had ser ;ed one-third or more of the
valid sentence on the first and'second counts, but less than
one-third of the total period of imprisonment to which
he had been sentenced on the three counts; and that consideration by the Parole Board of any application for his
parole was precluded by reason of the outstanding, but
void, sentence on the third count.
Numerous objections to .the validity of the conviction and sentence under the third count were urged either
in the district court or the Court of Appeals. The only
one considered by the Court of Appeals was that the
third count was void because it failed to charge the petitioner, in conformity to the words of § 4 of the statute,
with having sold a stolen motor vehicle " moving'as, or
which is a part of, or which constitutes interstate or foreign commerce," but had charged him, instead, with
knowingly selling a stolen motor vehicle which "had
theretofore been transported in interstate commerce";
that it had thus failed to charge an offense against the
United States since it appeared that the motor vehicle, at
the time of .the sale, had ceased to be the subject of
interstate commerce.

McNALLY v. HILL, WARDEN.
131

Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Appeals did not consider whether the writ
of habeas corpus could rightly be used to test the validity
of the sentence on the third count, while the petitioner
was in lawful custody under the sentence on the second,
or whether the writ was improperly used as an attempted
substitute for an appeal from the judgment of conviction.
It contented itself with passing upon the sufficiency of
the indictment and held that the act of sale charged was
so closely related to the interstate transportation of the
motor vehicle as to constitute the federal offense defined
by the statute. It accordingly treated the alleged defects
in 'the indictment as no more than formal and affirmed
the order of the district court dismissing the petition.
'69 F. (2d) 38.
We find it unnecessary to consider the questions raised
or decided below, which the petitioner presses here. We
conclude that, as it appears from the petition that the detention of petitioner is lawful under the sentence on the
second count, there is no occasion, in a habeas corpus
proceeding, for inquiry into the validity of his conviction
under the third.
The use of the writ of habeas corpus as an incident of
the federal judicial power is implicitly recognized by
Article I, § 9, Clause 2 of the Constitution, which provides: "The privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall
not be suspended, unless when in cases of rebellion or
invasion the public safety may require it." The justices
of this Court and judges of the district courts were expressly given power to issue the writ by.§ 14 of the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, 1 Stat. 73, 81, 82, now
embbdied, with additions, in Chapter 14, Title 28,.U. S. C.
Under the statute in its present form the writ may issue
"for the purpose of inquiry into the caise of restraint of
liberty," but with the proviso that it "shall in no case
extend to a prisoner in jail unless where he is in custody
under or by color of the authority of. the United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinmon of the Court.

293 U. S

or is in custody for an adt done or omitted in pursuance of a law of the United States . . . or is in custody in violation of the Constitution or of a law or treaty
of the United States;" §§ 451, 452, 453, Title 28, U. S. C.
The statute does not define the term habeas corpus. To
ascertain its meaning and the appropriate use of the writ
in the federal courts, recourse must be had to the common
law, from which the term was drawn, and to the decisions
of this Court interpreting and applying the common law
principles which define its use when authorized by the
statute. Ex parte Bollman, 4 Cranch 75, 93, 94; Ex parte
Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38; Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193, 201,
202; Ex parte Yerger, 8 Wall. 85, 95; Ex parte Parks, 93
U. S. 18, 21, 22;'Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, 375;
Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 86, 94; see Whitney v.
Dick, 202 U. S. 132; Craig v. Hecht, 263 U. S. 255.
Originatingas awrit by which the superior courts of the
common law and the chancellor sought to extend their
jurisdiction at the expense of inferior or rival courts, it
ultimately took form and survived as the writ of habeas
corpus ad subjiciendum, by which the legality of the detention of one in the custody.of another could. be tested
judicially. See Holdsworth, History of the English Law,
Vol. 9, 108-125. Its use was defined and regulated by the
Habeas Corpus Act of 1679, 31 Car. II, c. 2. This legislation and the decisions of the English courts interpreting
it have been 'accepted by this Court as authoritative
guides in defining the principles which control the use of
the writ in the, federal courts. See Ex parte Watkins,
supra, 202; Ex parte Yerger, supra, 95; Ex parte Parks,
supra, 21, 22.
The purpose of the proceeding defined by the, statute
was to inquire into the legality of the detention, and the
only judicial. relief authorized was the discharge of the
prisoner or*his admission to bail, and that only if his

McNALLY v. HILL, WARDEN.
131

137

Opinion of the Court.

detention were found to be unlawful.' In this, the statute conformed to the traditional form of the writ, which
put in issue only the disposition of the custody of the prisoner according to law.' There is no warrant in either the
statute or the writ for its use to invoke judicial determination of questions which could not affect the lawfulness
of the custody and detention, and no suggestion of such
a use has been found in the commentaries on the English common law.' Diligent search ofthe English author, The Habeas Corpus Act appears from its preamble to have been
especially, although not exclusively, directed at cases in which the
King's subjects were detained in custody upon a criminal charge
where by !aw they were entitled to bail. It authorized the writ to
issue, directed to any sheriff or gaoler; or other person "for any
person in his or their custody." It commanded the production of the
prisoner before the judicial officer to whom the writ was to be returned
and directed that such officer "shall discharge" the "prisoner from
his imprisonment" with provision for taking bail in his discretion,
"unless it shall appear " to him that the petitionbr "is detained upon
a leg.l process, order or warrant out of some court that hath jurisdiction of criminal matters " or upon warrant.for an offense "for which
by law the prisoner is not bailable." 31 Car. II, § 11 (2), § III (6)
(7).
2 The writ, in its historic form, like that now in use in the federal
courts, was directed to the disposition of the custody of the prisoner.
It commanded the officer to "have' the body" of him "detained in
our prison under your custody," "together with the day and cause of
his being taken and detained," before the judge at a specified time
and place "to do and receive all and singular those things which our
said chief justice shall then and there consider of him in this behalf."
Richardson, The Attorney's Practice in the Court of Kings Bench,
vol. 1,. p. 369. Numerous writs, in substantially the same form, used
between 5 Edw. IV and James II, are collected in Tremaine, Pleas of
the Crown, 351-435. The earliest of these is reprinted in Coke's
Second Institutes, 53. And see Hurd, Habeas Corpus, 232-233.
1 Bacon, in his Abridgement, 425, declared the writ "is the most
usual remedy by which a man is restored to his liberty if he hath by
law been deprived of it." And Hale said that it was designed "to
remove or avoid the imprisonment." Analysis of the Law, 78; 'see

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

ities and the digests before .1789 has failed to disclose any
case where the writ was sought or used, either before or
after conviction, as a means of securing the judicial decision of any question which, even if determined in the
prisoner's favor, could not have resulted. in his immediate release.4
Such use of the writ in the federal courts
is without the
support of history or of any language in the statutes
which would indicate a purpose to enlarge its traditional
function. Section .14 of the Judiciary Act, by the language already quoted, w'as at pains to declare that the
writ might issue for the purpose of inquiring into the
cause of restraint of liberty. Without restraint of liberty,
'the writ will not issue. Wales v. Whitney, 114 U. S. 564;
Stallings v; Splain, 253 U. S. 339, 343.. Equally, without
restraint which is unlawful, the writ may not be used. A
sentence which the prisoner has not begun to serve cannot be the cause of restraint.which the statute makes the
subject of inquiry.
Considerations which have led this Court to hold that
habeas corpus may not be used as a writ of error to correct an erroneous judgment of conviction of crime, but
may be resorted to only where the judgment is void because the court was without jurisdiction to render it, Ex
parte Watkins, supra,203; Knewel v. Egan, 268 U. S. 442,
445, 447, lead'to the like conclusion where the prisoner is
also Pleas of the Crown, 143. And see Coke, Second Institutes, 52,
53; Comyns, Digest of the Laws of England, 454; Blackstone, Commentaries. val. 1, 129-137.
' The Court al Kings Bench, in Rex v. Clarkson, 1 Stra. 444, in

refusing to order the release of a woman content to remain with her
guardian, said: "We have noihing to do ... but only to see that

she is under no illegal restraint." See Brass Crosby's Case, 3 Wils.
189, 198. "This is a writ by which the subject has a right of remedy
to be discharged out of custody, if he hath been committed and 'a
detained contrary to law."

McNALLY .v. HILL, WARDEN.
131

Opinion of the Court.

lawfully detained under a sentence which is invalid in

part. Habeas corpus may not be used to modify or revise the judgment of conviction. Harlan v. McGourin,
218 U. S. 442; United States v. Pridgeon,153 U. S. 48, 63.
Even when void, its operation may be stayed by habeas
corpus only through the exercise of the authority of the
court to removq the prisoner from custody. That authority cannot be exercised where the: custody is lawful.
Wherever the issue has been presented, this Court has
consistently refused to review, upon habeas corpus, questions which do not concern the lawfulness of the detention." In re Graham, 138 U. S.461; In re Swan, 150 U. S.
637, 653; Harlan v. McGourin, supra; UnitedStates v.
Pridgeon, supra; Nishimura Ekiu v. United States, 142
U. S.651; Iasigi v. Van der Carr, 166 U. S. 391; Hale v.
Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 77; Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417,
421. The lower federal courts have generally denied petitions for the writ where the prisoner was at the time
serving a part of his sentence not assailed as invalid.6
8 In Morgan v. Devine, 237 U. S. 632, 637, the writ was denied on
the merits and in Ex parte Spencer, 228U. S. 652, petition for the
writ was denied because sought to be used as a substitute for a writ
of error, although in each 'case the petitioner had not served an
admittedly valid part of his sentence. In neither case did the opinion
discu6s the question whether the application was premature.
6 The Courts of Appeals in circuits, other than the 8th have uniformly denied petitions for writs of habeas corpus when the prisoner
was not at the time serving the part of the sentence said to 'be
invalid. Carter v. Snook, 28 F. (2d) 609 (C. C. A. 5th); Eori v.
Aderhold, 53 F. (2d) 840, 841 (C. C. A. 5th);.De Bara v. United
States, 99 Fed. 942 (C. C. A. 6th); United States v. Carpenter, 151
Fed. 214 (C.C. A. 9th); Mabry v. Beaumont, 290 Fed. 205, 206
(C. C. A. 9th; Dodd v. Peak, 60 App. D. C. 68; 47 F. (2d)
430, 431. And. to the like effect, see Woodward v. Bridges, 144
Fed. 156 (D. d.); Ex parte Davis, 112 Fed. 139 (C.C.). This

was the view of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in
Connella v. Haskell, 158 Fed. 285, 289.

But in O'Brien v. McClaughry,

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

The petitioner asks here only a ruling which will establish his.eligibility for parole, because of the invalidity of
the sentence on the third count. The ruling sought is
such as might be obtained in a proceeding brought to
mandamus the Parole Board to entertain his petition for
parole, if the sentence on the third count were void for

want of jurisdiction of the court to pronounce it. This
use of habeas corpus is unauthorized by the statutes of
the United States, and for that reason the judgment
must be
Affirmed.

WACO v. UNITED STATES FIDELITY &

GUARANTY CO.

ET. AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 5.

Argued October 9, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

In a suit brought in a state court of Texas against public contractors
and a municipality for damages alleged to have been caused by a
street obstruction, the city by a cross-action vouched in a surety
company, which removed the cause to the federal district court.
That court dismissed the cross-action and then remanded the case
to the state court. Held:
209 Fed. 816, 820, 821, that court, in order that the prisoner might
apply for parole for tho valid part of his sentence, remanded the prisoner with directions to the District Court to discharge the prisoner
from custody with respect to the invalid sentence, but to remand him
to custody upon the valid sentence. This procedure was followed by
the same court in Cahill v. Biddle, 13 F. (2d) 827, 828, 829. But see
Morgan v. Sylvester, 231 Fed. 8SS3, 887; Hostetter v. United States,
16 F. (2d) 921, 923; and Schultz v. Biddle, 19 F. (2d) 478, 480, in
the same court.
In Colson v. Aderhold, 5 F. Supp. 111, the district court for northern Georgia entertained a writ for habeas corpus, reduced the sentence from fifty to thirty-five years, and remanded him for custody
to serve the valid part of his sentence.

