OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. POWERS, EXECUTOR, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 17.

Argued October 12, 15, 1934.-Decided December 3, 1934.

1. The provision of the Revenue Acts of 1926, §§ 212 (a), 213 (a),
and 1928, §§ 21, 22 (a), for taxing income derived "from compensation for personal service . . .of whatever kind and in whatever form paid," is broad enough to embrace the compensation of
state officers if not constitutionally immune. P. 224.
2. A Tredsury Regulation cannot limit this statutory provision or
define the boundaries of its constitutional application. Id.
3. Constitutional immunity of the compensation of a state officer
from federal taxation is not a necessary result of his being a state
officer; it depends upon the nature of the political activities assigned to him and upon whether they come within the fundamental
reason for denying federal authority to tax, viz., necessary protection of the independence .of national and state governments in their
respective spheres in our constitutional system. P. 224.
4. One of the limitations of the principle of tax immunity as between
the state and national governments is that the State cannot withdraw sources of revenue from the federal taxing power by engaging
in businesses which go beyond usual governmental functions and
to which, by reason of their nature, the federal taxing power would
normally extend. P. 225.
5. The fact that the State has power to undertake such enterprises,
and that they are undertaken for what the State conceives to-be
the public benefit, does not establish immunity. Id.
6. In operating a street railway, whether permanently or for a limited time, the State is undertaking a business enterprise of a sort
that is normally within the reach of the federal taxing power and
is distinct from the usual governmental functions that are immune
from federal taxation in order to safeguard the necessary independence of the State. P. 227.
7..If a business undertaken by a State is not immune from a federal
excise tax upon its operations, the compensation of those who conduct it for the State is not exempt from a federal income tax.
P. 227.

HELVERING v. POWERS.
214

Argument for Petitioner.

8. A street railway company and its properties, including a reserve
fund, are taken over by the State, to be publicly operated and
managed for a limited period of time, pursuant to a special Act of
the Legislature agreed to by the company. The operations during
that period are to 'b6 under the exclusive control of a board of
trustees, who are officers of the State specially appointed -for the
purpose, and the management is to be such that the cost of the
venture, including operating expenditures, upkeep and other
charges against income and surplus, with dividends agreed to be
paid on the company's stock, shall be met by the income; but if
there are deficits, these are to be paid by the State and assessed
against the towns and cities along the railway. At the end of the
period, the properties are to be restored to the company in good
condition and the fund undiminished. The salaries of the trustees,
fixed by the statute, are payable by the company,-part of the
costs of operation. As incidents of the main purpose, the trustees
have exclusive authority to regulate and fix the fares and to ascertain any losses incurred, which are to be borne by the State.
Held that the salaries of the trustees are not constitutionally immune from income tax under the Federal Revenue Acts of 1926 and
1928.
68 F. (2d) 634, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 292 U. S. 620, to review a judgment rev ersing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining a
deficiency assessment of income tax.
Solicitor General Biggs, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Wideman and Messrs. Erwin N. Griswold, James
W. Morris, and John MacC. Hudson were on the brief, for

petitioner.
The statute imposes a tax upon the income of everyin dividual derived from compensation for service and from
all sources whatsoever.
The doctrine of implied constitutional immunity from
taxation is limited to the agencies and instrumentalities
exercising strictly governmental functions. The reason
for the rule must control. Exemption must depend upon
the effect of the tax upon the exercise by the State of its
essential functions of Government, although consideration

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioner

293 1).5

should also be given to the inherent nature of the agency
taxed, and its relation to Government.
The trustees were appointed solely for the purpose of
managing and operating the railway and, to the end that
adequate transportation service might be maintained, were
authorized to fix rates of fare sufficient to meet the cost of
service.
It is no part of the essential governmental functions of
a State to furnish means of transportation to its people.
When a State departs from those functions and engages in
a business of a purely private nature, the business and the
instrumentalities employed therein are subject to a nondiscriminatory tax imposed by the Federal Government.
The provisions of the Treasury regulations as to the
compensation of " officers are valid and applicable. The
court below held that the trustees were officers of the
State and that there is no '.sis for the requirement of
the regulations that the cormpensation must be received for
services rendered in the exercise of governmental functions.
In so holding, the court either ignored or overlooked explicit and well-known decisions of tibis Court. Flint v.
Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; South Carolinav. United
States, 199 U. S. 437i Ohio v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360.
*he fact that .the respondents had the power to fix
rates, and to declare deficits, which were
used as a basis
of taxation, is not sufficient to exempt from taxation the
salaries which they received for managing the railroad.
The respondents had no discretion in fixing rates, and
they had no power to levy taxes. Their authority with
respect to each was merly ministerial.
Moreover, the compensation received by the respond
ents was not paid for the exercise of these powers. The
selaries were paid to the trustees by the company and not
by the Commonwealth; and they were paid for their services as managefs of the company. If the respondents
exercised any essential governmental powers. they re-

HELVERING v. POWERS.
214

Argument for Respondents.

ceived no compensation on that account; and their compensation received for other services is not exempt.
Even if the salary paid by the company could be regarded as paid in part as compensation for essentially governmental service on behalf of the State, the entire
amount would not be exempt. And there can be no allocation, for they have produced no evidence of the proper
basis of allocation.
Mr. Melville Fuller Weston, with whom Mr. J. Colby
Bassett was on the brief, for respondents.
It is of the very essence of a Government to be able to
personify itself in public officers, and through them to
manifest in action the policies, within its lawful powers,
upon which it has determined through its legislative
branch. Hence a public officer, and especially a primary
officer, is an essential instrumentality of Government,
and to have such officers is in itself an essential function
of Government.
This Court has on frequent occasions discussed the
scope of the constitutional principle of exemption and
has on no occasion failed to place public officers, as such,
among those instrumentalities of Government, which are
" essential." It has never been intimated that public
officers were to be classified according to the nature of
the subject matter to which their duties pertained, as
essentially governmental officers, officers not essentially
governmental, and officers having duties partly governmental and partly not. Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S. 216,
225-6; Indian Matocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.
570. 577; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; South
Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S. 437; Ohio v. Helvering. 292 U. S. 360; Georgia v. Chattanooga, 264 U. S.
472; Bank of United States v. Planters Bank, 9 Wheat.
904; Bank of Kentucky v. Wister, 2 Pet. 318; Briscoe v.
Bonk of Kentucky 11 Pet. 257; Curran v. Arkansas, 15

OCTOBER TERM 1934.
Argument for Respondents.

293 U. S.

How. 304; North Dakota v. Olson, 33 F. (2d) 848, dismissed for want of jurisdiction, 280 U. S. 528; United
States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 17 Wall. 322.
The compensation of a public officer is the means of
'obtaining his services. It has never been suggested that
it is any less the means because paid by fees or from
some source other than public funds which the State was
competent to command. Still less has it ever been suggested that it is subject to an artificial "allocation "
upon the basis of a classification of duties. It is wholly
exempt. The Treasury Department itself has long recognized that, in the case of a public officer, the source of
the emolument fixed by law was not material. See, for
example, 5 C. B. 106 (fees of deputy sheriffs); II-1 C. B.
71 (compensation of state employees under SheppardTowner Act); II-1 C. B. 72 (fees of public administrators
paid out of the estates); IV-2 C. B. 46 (receivers of
insolvent state banks paid out of bank assets).
Once it is established that the constitutional principle
applies, "It is not affected by the amount of theparticular
tax or the extent of the resulting interference, but is
absolute." Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283
U. S. 570, 575.
The respondents were public officers and were, moreover,
primary officers. The State spoke through the-legislature,
but when it came to act, it acted first through them. Their
compensation fell within the constitutional principle, notwithstanding the State procured it to be paid in the first
instance out of a private fund, the integrity of which fund,
however, the State had agreed to underwrite.
Upon the basis of decisions dealing solely with excise
taxes levied upon business activities, And not witlh direct
taxes levied upon public offices or their emoluments, the
petitioner seeks to exclude the respondents from the scope
of the exemption. It is submitted that the cases are
wholly distinguishable. A State cannot raise a private

HELVERING v. POWERS.
214

Argument for Respondents.

business to its own level; but, at its own level, it is competent to develop a public policy even with respect to its
relations to a private business, and it has a constitutional
right to have public officers through whom to act in respect
of a public policy coming within its lawful powers.
Even if the respondents' duties be scrutinized as to their
subject matter, there appears no suffi ient ground for making of them an exception to the heretofore absolute rule
exempting from federal taxation the compensation of public officers of a State.
On the question whether providing means of transportation is a genuine and long established subject matter
of Government, the weight of the later cases, despite the
dictum in Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., seems to be in the
affirmative. Jamestown &- Newport Ferry Co. v. Commissioner, 41 F. (2d) 920; United States v. King County,
281 Fed. 686; Frey v. Woodworth, 2 F. (2d) 725; Moisseiff v. Commissioner, 21 B. T. A. 515; Seattle v. Poe, 4 F.
(2d) 276; Lyons v. Reinecke, 10 F. (2d) 3; Blair v. Byers,
35 F. (2d) 326; Cleveland Ry. Co. v. Commissioner, 36 F.
(2d) 347.
Governments have concerned themselves for centuries,
and not by regulation alone, with the means of transportation. The respondents, while very likely not in the
exercise of the "police power," dealt extensively with a
common subject matter of public regulation, and acted in
the identical interest in which public regulation is exerted,
and to the same substatial ends. They were, moreover,
charged with the apportionment of a heavy burden bf
state taxation.
There is undoubted force to the argument that indefinite expansion of the functions of one Government cannot be allowed to withdraw all activities within its borders from the taxing power of the other. See South Carolina v. United States, 199 U. S. 437, 454. But we are n.ot
discussing the taxability of the railroad property, oi of

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

the railroad income, or of the compensation of employees
of the railroad company. We are asserting that there is
nothing so violently nongovernmental about the subject
matter of providing means of transportation as to require
the modification of the absolute rule with respect to the
exemption of public officers' compensation, as repeatedly
stated by this Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The question presented is whether the compensation of
the members of the Board of Trustees of the Boston Elevated Railway Company is constitutionally exempt from
the imposition of a federal income tax. Immunity is
sought upon the ground that the trustees are officers of
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and instrumentalities of its government. The Circuit Court of Appeals,
reversing the decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, held
in favor of the exemption. 26 B. T. A. 1381; 68 F. (2d)
634. We granted a writ of certiorari. 292 U. S. 620.
Chapter 159 of the Massachusetts Special Acts, 1918,
provides for the public operation of the Boston Elevated
Railway Company. The Act creates a board of five trustees, to be appointed by the Governor, with the advice and
consent of the Council, for the term of ten years. The
Act provides that the trustees shall be sworn before entering upon their duties; they shall own no stock or other
securities of the Company and shall each receive from the
Company $5,000 annually as compensation for his services. They are subject to removal by the Governor with
the advice and consent of the Council.
The trustees are charged with the duty of managing
and operating the Company and its prcperties for the
period, as stated or extended, of public operation, and to
that end are to have "possession of said properties in be-

HELVERING v. POWERS.
214

Opinion of the Court.

half of the Commonwealth." Except as otherwise stated,
they are to exercise all the powers of the Company, being
empowered in their discretion to appoint and remove the
president and other officers of the Company, except thI2
direqtors. The trustees are authorized " to regulate and
fix fares" and "to determine the character and extent of
the service and facilities to be furnished.'.' Their authority for this purpose is made "exclusive" and is not
"subject to the approval, control or direction of any
other state board or commission." The Act provides that
the trustees and their employees shall be deemed to be
acting as agents of the C,"mpany and not of the Commonwealth, and that the Company shall be liable for their
acts and negligence to the same extent as if they were in
the immediate employ of the Company, but that the
trustees shall not be personally liable.
The Company was required, on or before its acceptance
of the Act, to raise a stated amount by the issue of preferred stock in order to provide for the improvement of
the property of the Company and the establishnent of
a reserve fund. The trustees are to fix such rates of fare
as will reasonably insure sufficient income to.meet the
cost of service, as defined, which, in addition to operating
expenditures, outlays for the required upkeep of the properties, and other amounts chargeable against income and
surplus, includes fixed dividends on the preferred stock
and dividends on the common stock at specified rates.
Surplus income is to be transferred to the reserve fund
and that fund is to be used to meet deficiencies. If it is
insufficient for that purpose, the trustees are required
to notify the treasurer and receiver general of the Commonwealth, and the Commonwealth is to pay the amount
of the deficit ascertained according to the Act. Amounts
thus paid are to be assessed upon the several cities and
towns in which the -Company operates. Provision is

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

made for reimbursement out of subsequent surplus income. The Act contemplates the maintenance of the
property in good operating condition and the restoration
of the reserve fund, if depleted, to its original amount on
the expiration of the period of public management. At
that time the control of the property is to revert to the
Company. It may then collect such reasonable fares as
will produce an income sufficient to pay the reasonable
cost of the service as defined in the Act, including specified dividends on the common stock, and the Company is
then to be subject to public regulation in such manner
as may be determined by the General Court, but not so
as to reduce the income below the cost of the service as
stated.
The tax in question was on the compensation received
by the trustees for the years 1926 to 1929. It appears
that in 1919 the Commonwealth paid to the Company
nearly $4,000,000 as a deficiency resulting from the public operation, and that in subsequent years, up to and
including 1929, the income received was not sufficient for
full reimbursement.
The validity of the statute has been sustained as one
enacted for a public purpose and providing for the management of the enterprise by the Commonwealth. Boston v. Treasurer& Receiver General, 237 Mass. 403, 413,
420; 130 N. E. 390; Boston v. Jackson, 260 U. S. 309, 314,
316. The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts has
characterized the "public operation" as "undertaken by
the Commonwealth, not as a source of profit, but solely
for the general welfare." Boston v. Treasurer& Receiver
General, supra. The trustees are the administrative
agents of the Commonwealth in this enterprise, and we
may assume, as the Circuit Court of Appeals has held,
that the trustees'come within the general category.-of
"public officers " by virtue .of.their appointment by the

HELVERING v. POWERS.
214

Opinion of the Court.

Governor, with the advice and consent of the Council, and
their tenure and duties fixed by law.' United States v.
Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385, 393; Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell,
269 U. S. 514, 520. See Opinion of the Justices, 261
Mass., pp. 542, 543, 550; 159 N. E. 55.
While the undertaking is for the public benefit, it is
.still a particular business enterprise-the operation of a
street railway-and the functions of the trustees are
limited accordingly. The property remains in private
The Act, accepted by the Company, conownership.
stitutes in substance an agreement between the Company
and the Commonwealth that the latter shall temporarily
take over the minagement and operation and pay specified amounts by way of compensation. While the Commonwealth miy be called upon to bear losses that may
occur, if the fares as fixed prove to be insufficient, the
operation by the trustees is intended to be self-sustaining.
The transportation service is to be rendered, as respondents' counsel say, " under such a flexible system of ratemaking as would allow the fixing of fares equal, as nearly
as might be, to the cost of service." The compensation
of the trustees is undoubtedly a part of that cost. "The
main design of the Act," as stated by the Supreme Judicial
Court, " is public operation of the railway company at
such rates of fare to be fixed by the trustees from time
to time as shall afford revenue sufficient to defray all
charges and the dividends established by the act." Boston v. Treasurer& Receiver General, supra. The authority given to the -trustees " to regulate and fix fares," and
The provision of § 1 of Chapter 159 of the Massachusetts Special
Acts of 1918 that the trustees shall not be considered public officers
within the meaning of § 25 of Chapter 514 of the Acts of 1909, and
that § 1 of Chapter 7 of the Revised Laws shall not apply to. the
trustees, creates special limitations of such a nature as not to .derogate
from their general status. See Opinion of the Justices, 261 Mass.,
p. 543; 159 N. E. 55.

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S

:IP fnrther authority to ascertain such losses as may be
-nrnrred. which are to he borme by the Commonwealth,
,ir,
both incident to that main purpose.
The immunity sought by the trustees from payment of
the federal income tax has not been granted by the Congress. The definitions of income in the federal income
tax acts cover income derived "from compensation for
personal service . . . of whatever kind and in whatever
form paid." Revenue Acts of 1926, §§ 212 (a), 213 (a);
1.928, §§ 21, 22 (a). This language is certainly broad
enough to embrace the compensation of the trustees, and
the immunity, if it exists, must rest upon constitutional
limitation. The Treasury Regulations, manifestly in an
effort to interpret and apply that limitation, provide for
exemption from taxation of compensation paid by a State
or political subdivision to its officers and employees only
in case their services are rendered " in connection with the
exercise of an essential governmental function." Treas.
Reg. No. 69, Art. 88; No. 74, Art. 643; No. 77, Art. 643.
But the Treasury Department could not by its regulation
either limit the provisions of the statute or define the
boundaries of their constitutional application.
We come then to the question whether the Congress
has the constitutional power to impose an income tax
upon the compensation of public officers of the character
ere involved. We do not regard that question as answered by mere terminology. The roots of the constitutiotm'l rpetriction strike deeper than that. The term
" publie office " undoubtedly implies a definite assignment of public activity, fixed by appointment, tenur,
,ndl duties. BPt whether that field of activity, in relation to a State. carries immiinitv from federal taxation is
a question which compels consideration of the nature of
the -cti.,ity, apart from th, merp creation of offices for
oonducting it. and-of the fundamental reason for denying

HELVERING v. POWERS.
214

225

Opinion of the Court..

federal authority to tax. That reason, as we have frequently said. is found in the necessary protection of the
independence of the national and state governments
within their respective spheres under our constitutional
system. Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, 125, 127; Ambrosini v. United States, 187 U. S. 1, 7; Indian Motocycle
Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 570, 575. The principle of
immunity thus has inherent limitations. Metcalf & Eddy
v. Mitchell, supra, pp. 522-524; Willcuts v. Bunn, 282
U. S. 216. 225, 226; Indian Motocycle Co. v. Uniteal States,
supra, p. 576; Fox Film Corp. v. Doyal, 286 U. S. 123,
128; Board of Trustees v. United States, 289 U. S. 48, 59.
And one of these limitations is that the State cannot
withdraw sources of revenue from the federal taxing
power by engaging in businesses which constitute a departure from usual governmental functions and to which,
by reason of their nature, the federal taxing power would
normally extend. The fact that the State has power to
undertake such enterprises, and that they are undertaken
for what the State conceives to be the public benefit, does
not establish immunity. South Carolinav. United States,
199 U. S. 437; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107,
172; Murray v. Wilson Distilling Co., 213 U. S. 151, 173;
Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, supra; Indian Motocycle Co.
v. United States, supra; Ohio v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360,
368, 369. The necessary protection of the independence of
the state government is not deemed to go so far.
In South Carolina v. United States, supra, the State
undertook to establish a monopoly of the sale of intoxicating liquors and prohibited the sale except by dispensaries
to be operated by the State. The dispensers had no interest in the sales and received no profit from them. The
question was whether the dispensers were relieved from
liability for the internal revenue tax prescribed by the
Congress for dealers in intoxicating liquors because the

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U.S.

dispensers were agents of the State, which in the exercise
of its sovereign power had taken charge of the business.
While the court recognized the power of the State to
undertake the enterprise, the exemption was denied, as
the State could not, by engaging in a business of that sort,
withdraw it from the taxing power which the Constitution
vested in the national government. Murray v. Wilson
Distilling Co., supra.
The Court reached a similar conclusion in the recent
case of Ohio v. Helvering, supra, where the State had
established a department of liquor control and sought an
injunction to restrain the enforcement of federal statutes
imposing taxes upon dealers in intoxicating liquors. The
State sought to distinguish the case of South Carolina
because, in Ohio, "the state-owned stores " were operated
by civil service employees of the state government, and
hence the question was said to concern the taxation of the
State itself. The argument was unavailing and the Court
rested its ruling upon the broad ground that when the
State becomes a dealer in intoxicating liquors it falls
within the reach of the tax as one validly imposed by the
federal statute.
The method which the State may adopt in organizing
such an activity cannot be regarded as determinative. If
the dealers in South Carolina, or those employed to operate th! state stores in Ohio, had been denominated public
officers, and as such had been assigned definite tenure and
duties, the same result would have been reached, as the
principle involved would be equally applicable. Nor, in
such a case, would the fact that the officers were entrusted
with the authority to fix prices for the sales under their
charge in a manner appropriately to secure the revenue
needed for the enterprise, or were charged with the duty of
ascertaining the losses which, if they occurred, were to be
borne by general taxation, establish a material distinction.

HELVERING v. POWERS.
214

Opinion of the Court.

The nature of the enterprise, and not the particular incidents of its management, would control.
We see no reason for putting the operation of a street
railway in a different category from the sale of liquors.
In each case, the State, with its own conception of public
advantage, is undertaking a business enterprise of a sort
that is normally within the reach of the federal taxing
power and is distinct from the u~ual governmental functions that are immune from federal taxation in order to
safeguard the necessary independence of the State. If,
in the instant case, the Commonwealth had acquired the
property of the Company and had organized management of it in perpetuity by the state government, instead
of temporarily, or had taken over all the street railways
in all its cities for direct operation by the Commonwealth,
there would appear to be no ground, under the principles
established by the decisions we have cited, for holding
that this would effect the withdrawal of the enterprise
from the federal taxing power. And the fact that the
State has here undertaken public management and operation for a limited time, and under the particular restrictions of the agreement with the Company, cannot be said
to furnish a ground for immunity.
If the business itself, by reason of its character, is not
immune, although undertaken by the State, from a federal excise tax upon its operations, upon what ground can
it be said that the compensation of those who conduct the
enterprise for the State is exempt from a federal income
tax? Their compensation, whether paid out of the re-.
turns from the business or otherwise, can have no quality,
so far as the federal taxing power is concerned, superior
to that of th enterprise in which the compensated service
is rendered.
We conclude that the Congress had the constitutional
authority to lay the tax.
Decree reversed.

