CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.

RADIO 'CORPORATION OF AMERICA

ET AL.

V.

RADIO ENGINEERING LABORATORIES, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 1619 (October Term, 1933). Argued May 2,. 3, 1934.-Decided
May 21, 1934. Petition for rehearing denied, and opinion amended,
Oct. 8, 1934.
I. Where this Court has affirmed a decree upholdir. a patent in a
suit presenting the i~sue Qf priority between those who were rival
claimants in the patent office proceedings, upon the kround that
the unsuccessful party had failed to establish his superior right by
thoroughly convincing evidence, the decree isnot conclusive upon
a stranger to that record in a subsequent suit against him for infringement, but it is persuasive as a precedent where the issue in
the second suit and the evidence concerning it are the' same as
before. P. 7.
2. Patents Nos. 1,507,016 and 1,507,017; to Lee De Forest, Seljt. 2,
1924, for a " feed back" and an audion "oscillator," sustained upon
the evidence as to priority of discovery. P. 10.
3. A patentee is entitled not only to the uses for his invention that
were apparent when it was made, but also to other -uses then dimly
apprehended but realized laterJ P. 14.
66 F. (2d.) 768, reversed; 1 F. Supp. 65 (D. C.), affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

290 U. S. 624, to review the'reversal of a

decree of the District Court sustaining patents upon the
ground of priority, in a suit brought by their assignees

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

against an infringer. Because of the pendency of a petition for rehearing, the opinion, delivered at the last Term,
was not published in vol. 292. It is now printed 'vith
the amendments that were directed by the order of October 8, 1934, denying the rehearing. See post,'p. 522.
Messrs. Thomas G. Haight and Samuel E. Darby, Jr,
with whom Messrs. James R. Sheffield, William R. Ballard,
and Abel E. Blackmar, Jr., were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. William H. Davis for respondent.
MR. JUsTICE CARuozo delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioners, assignees of two patents, numbers
1,507,016 and 1,507,017, granted to Lee De Forest on
September 2, 1924, have sued'to restrain an infringement
and for othek relief.
The respondent, , defendant in the trial court, admits the
infringement if 'the patents are valid, but maintains that
they are void in that they were issued to a patentee who
was not the first inventor.
Long before this suit the rival claimants to the inventi., Armstrong and De Forest, had fought out between themselves the legal battle now renewed. The
outcome of their contest was a decree whereby priority
of ,invention was found in accordance with the patents
now assailed by the respondent, a decree binding on
the claimants and their several assignees. For the purpose of any controveisy between Armstrong and De
Forest the validity of the patents must be accepted as
a datum. Even for the purpose of a controversy with
strangers there is a presumption of validity, a presumption not to be overthrown except by clear and dogent evidence. The question is whether the respondent has sustained that, heavy burden.

IRADIO CORP. v. RADIO LABORATORIES.

3

Opinion of the Court.

At the outset there were four claimants to priority of
title. All four, acting independently, had made the same
or nearly the sam& discovery at times not widely separate.
-The prize of an exclusive patent falls to the one who had
the fortune to be first. Du Bois v. Kirk, 158 U.S. 58,
66; Evans v. Eaton, 3 Wheat. 454. The others gain nothing for all their toil and talents. Of the four claimants
Langmuir filed an application for a patent on October
29i 1913, claiming August 1, 1913, as the date of his invention. Armstrong filed an application on October 29,
1913, and a second one on December 18, 1913, fixing the
date of his inventiom as the fall of 1912 or the beginning
of 1913. As early as October 6, 1914, he received a patent
covering the iubject matter of his first application (patent No. 1,113,149), but not the subject matter of his
second. Meissner filed an application on March 16, 1914,
fixing the date of his invention as April 9' 1913. De For•est filed an application on March 20, 1914, and another on
September 23, 1915, fixing as- the date of his invention
August 6, 1912, the earliest date of all, which would
make him the first inventor if the claim could be made
'good.
Interferences were declared by the Patent Office as the
result of these conflicting applications. One involved the
applications Of De Forestiand Langmuir; another, thi applications of De Forest, Langmuir and Meissner; a third
the applications by De Forest, Langmuir and Meissner
and also the second one of Armstrong's, the on!k one. of
his then pending. ° While these interferences wtire still
undecided, Armstrong and his assignee brought suit for
the infringement of patent ? o. 1,113,149, which had been
issued to him in October, 1914, the defendant in that suit
being the De Forest Radio Telephone & Telegraph Company. The District Courf (per Mayer, J.) fixed the date
of Armstrong's discovery as January 31, 1913, rejected De
Forest's claim to discovery on August 6, 1912, and gave

4

OCTOBER TERM, -1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

an interlocutory decree for an injunction and an accounting. 279 Fed. 445. The Circuit Court of Appeals (per
Manton, J.) affirmed. 280 Fed 584. In the meanwhile
the interference proceedings went on in the Patent Office.
On March 31, 1923, the Commissioner of Patents rendered
.a decision which gave priority to Armstrong. There was
an appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia, invested at that time with supervisory jurisdiction in the administration of the patent laws. Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U.S. 50, 60; Postum Cereal Co. v. California Fig Nut Co., 272 U.S. 693. The Court of Appeals
reversed the decision of the Commissioner, and decreed
priority of invention in favor of De Forest. 54 App.D.C.
391; 298 Fed. 1006. On September 2. 1924, pursuant to
the man'date of that court, patents numbers 1,507,016 and
1,507,017 were issued by the Patent Office.
The fight was far from ended. Already
there was
pending in the District Court in Delaware a suit brought
under the authority of R.S. §4915 (35 U.S.C. § 63 1) to
direct the issuing of a patent f'o Meissner or his assigns.
After the decree in the District of Columbia there was a
suit in Pennsylvania under R.S. § 4918 (35 U.S.C. § 66 2),
" Whenever a patent on application is refused, either by. the
Commissioner of Patents or by the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia upon appeal from the Commissioner, the applicant may
have remedy by bill in equity; and the court having cognizance
theyeof, on notice to adverse parties and other due proceedings had,
may adjudge that such applicant is entitled, according to law, to
receive a patent for his invention, as specified in his claim, or for
any part thereof, as the facts in the eaie may appear. .... "
"'Whenever there are interfering patents, any person interested
in any one of them, or in the working of the invention claimed under
either of them, may have relief against the interfering patentee, and
all parties interested under him, by suit in equity against the owners
of the interfering patent; and the court, on notice to adverse parties,
and other due proceedings had acgording to the course of equity,
may adjudge and declare efther of the patents void in whole or in

[tD0

CORP. v. RADIO LABORATORIES

5

Opinion of the Court.

which was brought by the assignee of the De Forest patents to set aside the Armstrong patent of October, 1914
(No. 1,113,149), all the interested parties being joined as
defendants. Later on there was still another suit in
Delaware, under R.S. § 4915, to establish priority for
Langinuir. The suit in Pennsylvania came to a decree in
July, 1926. The decision was in favor of De Forest, i3 F.
(2d) 1014, the court adjudging that the holder of the
Armstrong patent had failed to overcome the presumption of validity attaching to the De Forest patents under
the administrative ruling in the District of Columbia, and
that the earlier decision in New York (279 Fed. 445, 280
Fed. 584) did not sustain the defense of res judicata for
the reason that the cause had never gone to final judgment. In February and March, 1927,-the two suits in
Delaware were decided the same way. 18 F. (2d) 338;
18 F. (2d) 345. The decrees in the three suits came up
for review before the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Third' Circuit,. All three were affirmed with a comprehensive opinion by Woolley, J., marshalling the evidence
and weighing the c6mpeting arguments. As the upshot
'the court held that the presumption of validity which
protected the De Forest patents had not been overthrown,
and that apart from any presumption De Forest had
made out his tifle as the original inventor. 21 F.; (2d)
918. Writs of certiorari brought the controversybere.
278 U.S. 562. This court affirmed the decree on the authority of Morgan v. Daniels, 153 U.S. 120, and Victor
Talking Machine Co. v. Brunswick-Balke-Collender Co.,
273 U.S. 670. The first of those cases lays down the rule
part, or inoperative, or invalid in, any particular part of the United
States, according to the interest of the parties in the patent or the
invention patented. But no such judgment or adjudication shall
dffect the right of any person' except the parties to the. suit and
those deriving title under them subsequent to the rendition of such
;iudgmenlt."

OCTOBER TERM,, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

that "where the question decided in the Patent Office is
one between the contesting parties as to priority of invention, the decision there made must be accepted as 'controlling upon that question of fact in any subsequent suit
between the same parties, unless the contrary is established by testimony which in character and amount carries thorough conviction." 153 U.S. at p. 125. The secgrd case (273 U.S. 670) adds to that presumption of validity the support of the familiar principle, repeatedly
applied in our decisions,: that the concurrent findings of
the courts below will be accepted by this court "unless
clear error is shown." See, e.g., United States v. State
Investment Co., 264 U.S. 206, 211; Texas & N. 0. R. Co.
v.: Brotherhood of Railway Clerks, 281 U.S. 548, 558;
United States v. Commercial Credit Co., 286 U.S. 63, 67.
One might have supposed that controversy would have
been stilled after all these years of litigation. It proved
to be not so. -The petitioners, after repelling every assault
from within the ranks of rival.laimants, found it necessary to meet a challenge from without. The respondent,
Radio Engineering Laboratories, Inc., allying itself with
Armstrong, who is paying its expenses, insists that the
invention is at large for the reason that De Forest, who
received the patents, is not the true inventor, and that
Armstrong, who is the inventor, is barred by a final judgment, conclusive between himself and the pretender, from
obtaining the patent that is due him, and with it an exclusive right. The evidence in this suit for an infringement is a repetition, word for word, of the evidence in the
earlier suits, so far as material to the conflicting claims
of Armstrong and De Forest. What has been added is so
nearly negligible that to all intents and purposes the records are the same. The District Court (per Campbell, J.)
held upon that evidence that the respondent had not succeeded in overcoming the De Forest patents, and entered
a decree for the complainants. 1 F.Supp. 65. Upon

RADIO CORP. v. RADIO LABORATORIES.
1

7

Opinion of the Court.

appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit,
the decree was reversed by a divided court with instructions to dismiss the bill. 66 F. (2d) 768. A majority
of the court adhered to the conclusion which it had
announced eleven years before. 280 Fed. 584. A dissenting opinion enforced the view that De Forest's title
as inventor, conclusively established as between himself
and Armstrong, should be held, upon substantially the
same record, to be good also apinst others. A writ of
certiorari issued from this court. 290 U.S. 624.
The judgments in the suits between Armstrong and
De Forest and their respective assignees are not conclusive upon the respondent, a stranger to the record. This
is so by force of the accepted limitations of the doctrine of
res judicata. It is so by force of the statute (R.S.
§ 4918), which provides in so many words that "no such
judgment or adjudication shall affect the right of any
person except the parties to the suit and those deriving
title under them subsequent to the rendition of such
judgment." But the respondent does not move very far
upon the pathway to success by showing that what. has
been heretofore determined is without conclusive force.
A patent regularly issued, and even more obviously a
patent issued after a hearing of all the rival claimants, is
presumed to be valid until the presumption has beenovercome by convincing evidence of error. The force of
that presumption has found varying expression in this
and other courts. Sometimes it is said that in a suit for
infringement, when the defense is a prior invention, "the
burden of proof to make good this defense " is "upon the
party setting it up," and "every reasonable doubt should
be resolved against him." Cantrell v. Wallick, 117 U.S.
-689, 695, 696 Coffin v. Ogden, 18 Wall. 120, 124; The
Barbed Wire Patent, 143 U.S. 275, 285; Washburn v.
Gould, 3 Story 122, 142; H. J. Heinz Co."v. Cohn, 207
. Fed. 547, 554; Detroit Motor Appliance Co. v. Burke,. 4

a

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinioh of the Court.

293 U. S.

V (2d) 118, 122; Wilson & Willard Mfg. Co. v. Bole, 227
1ed. 607, 609; Stoody Co. v. Mills Alloys, Inc., 67 F. (2d)
807, 809; cf. Morgan v. Daniels, supra, p. 123.: Again
it is said that "the presumption of the validity of the
patent is such that the defense of invention by another
must be established by the clearest proof-perhaps beyond reasonable doubt." Austin Machinery Co. v. Buckeye Traction Ditcher Co., 13 F. (2d) 697, 700. The context suggests that in these and like phrases the courts
were not defining :a standard in terms of scientific accuracy or literal precision, but were offering counsel and
suggestion to guide the course of judgment. Through
all the verbal variances, however, there runs this common
core of thought 'and truth, that one otherwise an infringer who assails the validity of a patent fair upon its
face bears a heavy burden of persuasion, and fails unless
his evidence .has more than a dubious preponderance.
Cf. PhilippineSugar E. D. Co; v. Philippine Islands, 247
U.S. 385, 391. If that is true where the assailant connects
himself in some way with the title of the true inventor, it
is so a fortiori where he is a stranger to the invention,
without claim of title of his own. If it is true where the
assailant launches his attack with evidence different, at
least in form, from any theretofore produced in opposition to the-patent, it is so a bit more clearly where the
evidence is even verbally the same. From all this it
results that a stranger to a.patent suit does not avoid
altogether the consequences of a judgment rendered in his
absence by establishing his privilege under the doctrine of
res judicata to try the issues over again. If he has that
opportunity and there is substantial identity of evidence,
he may find that the principle of adherence to precedent
will bring him out at tb-, end where he would be if he
had been barredat the biginnig. Cf. National Folding
Box & Papei Co. v. American Paper Pail & Box Co., 48

RADIO CORP. v. RADIO LABORATORIES.

9

Opinion of the Court.

Fed. 913; Rousso v. First Nat. Bank, 37 F. (2d) 281;
Cary v. Domestic Spring-Bed Co., 27 Fed. 299;,3 Robinson, Patents, § 1617.
This court in affirming the decrees in favor of De Forest did not say out and out that it would have reached'
the same conclusion upon the issue of priority if it had
been itself the trier of the facts. It did, however, say
in substance that Armstrong had:failed to establish his
own superior right by evidence sufficient to carry
thorough conviction to the mind (Morgan v. Daniels,
supra), or by evidence of manifest error in the findings
of the courts below. We do not need to go into the
question whether Morgan v. Daniels is applicable in all
its force unless the parties to the later suit were parties
also to the contest in the administrative proceeding.
,There are statements in the opinion (15W U.S. at pp. 124,
125) with reference to the analogy between a patent and
a judgirent that presuppose, perhaps,- identity of parties. Cf. Rousso v. Barber, 3 F. (2d) 740;. Rousso v.
First Nat. Bank, supra. Be that as, it may, the requirement of evidence sufficient to carry conviction to' the
mind is little more than another form of words for the
requirement that the presumption of validity shall .prevail against strangers as well as parties unless the countervailing evidence is clear and satisfactory. Nice distinctions are suggested bctween the application of these
principles by the court that finds the facts and their
application by the court that sits as'a reviewing body,
though we know that an appeal in equity.imports a broad
power of revision. Conceivably, we are told, a court
mighi have a clear conviction that the validity of a
patent had been successfully impeached, if it were passing upon the issue unhampered by the 'Views of others,
and yet the conviction might not be clear enough to
overthrow a holding to the contrary -approved by other

10

OCTOBER TERM, i934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

judges. Gradations of difference so subtle are not susceptible of pursuit without leading us into a land of
shadows. This court held the view when these patents
were last before it that the evidence was insufficient to
overcome the presumption of their validity in any clear
or certain way. If our estimate of probative values had
been different, the invention must have gone to Armstrong, no matter though other courts or administrative
officers had been persuaded to the contrary. The evidence that was insufficient at that time to evoke a clear
conviction that the patents were invalid is the same in
all essentials as the evidence before us now. We must
pronounce a like decree unless we are prepared to say
in the light of fuller argument that the first decree was
wrong.
The record -has.been reexamined patiently without inducing that persuasion. After all that has been written
about the De Forest patents in these many years of litigation, there is no need to fill the pages of our reports
with an:analysis of:the opposing arguments as if we were a
court of first instance trying the controversy anew. For
present purposes it is enough to bring out into sharp
relief a few considerations :of dominating significance.
Patent No. 1,507,017 is for an invention known as a
"feed-back"
circuit" and. patent No. 1,507,016 for an invention known
as the: audion "oscillator." The
two,
however, are closely associated, for the oscillator can: be
produced only by use of the feed-back circuit, though the
feed-back circuit can be used without producing an oscillator. As far back as 1908, De Forest had, received a
patent for a form of vacuum tube to which he gave the
name of." audion." The Fleming vacuum tube in use up
to that time had in it a metallic filamexnt, which was electrically heated to incandescence through an input circuit,
and a cold metallic plate to which electrons were trans-

-

RADIO CORP. v. RADIO LABORATORIES.
1

11

Opinion of the Court.

mitted from the filament, passing from the plate to another or output circuit. De Forest's "audion " changed
the Fleming tube by interposing a special wire known as
the "grid " between the filament and the plate, thereby
increasing its capacity as a detector of waves of radio or
inaudible frequency and serving better to transform them
into waves of audible frequency.
The device established itself alrost at once as a revolutionary improvement in the 'art -of transmitting sounds
at great distances by wire and through the air. At the
beginning, however, its potencies were not fully appreciated by electrical experts, not even by its inventor. Many
experiments were made with a view to exploring'its capacities and developing them. Among those interested
and curious was Armstrong, then a very young man, a
student in the school of electrical engineering at Columbia
University. He conceived the idea about January, 1913,
that through a hook-up or coupling of the output and the
input circuit there would be a feed-back or regeneration
of energy whereby the plate in the audion would become
an independent generator of continuous oscillations.
Tuning the circuit to the appropriate frequency, he found
that the messages communicated through the antenna of
a radio station were heard with a new clearness. Signals
fronm distant lands were borne to him across the seas.
It was a brilliant conception, but another creative mind,
working independently, had developed it before in designs
and apparatus till then unknown to the art. De Forest
with his assistant Van Etten had been. working during
the summer of 1912 along two lines of thought. One was
the use of the audion as a telephone repeater to amplify
weak telephone currents and thus facilitate the transmission of long distance messages. The other was its development as a generator of alternating currents for any and
all uses, some perhaps indefinite, that were capable of

12

OCTOBER TERM, i934.

Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S

being served by oscillations thus produced. On August
6, 1912, a diagram showing a feed-back hook up of the
input and output circuits is recorded in Van Etfen's note
book with a note that by the use of the coupling." a beautiJul clear tone" had been developed, which means that
oscillations had been produced and that the oscillations
were sustained. There is also a note that the pitch, i.e.,
the frequency, was varied by altering the plate voltage,
which means, or was understood, we are told; by De Forest
to mean, that by other simple adjustments the frequency
of the oscillations could be varied at will. Armstrong
does not deny that all this was done just as stated by
De Forest. Indeed the authenticity of the note-book
entries has never been disputed through the many phases
of the controversy. What Armstrong does deny is that
anything done or recorded in August, 1912, is an anticipation of his own invention. He says that the sustained oscillations generated at that.time were of audio
and not of radio frequency, and this, it seems, is admitted.
He says there was then no perception or thought that the
audion plate could be- made to oscillate at radio as well
as,audible frequencies through a coupling of the circuits.
This De Forest denies. He maintains, with the backing
of other witnesses, that upon discovering the effect of the
feed-back in generafing sustained oscillations of the plate,
he understood at once that by controlling the inductance
.or capacity in the oscillating .circuit he could also control
the frequency. This, he says in substance, must have been
obvious upon reflection to any competent electrician,
though there would be need of a certain amount of adjustment and experiment in substituting the correct
inductance or capacity, a process, it is argued, that would
be well within the ability of any one skilful in the art.
Beyond this he insists that having discovered the generative virtue of the feed-back, he was not confined in his
invention to the uses then developed, but if his patent

RADIO CORP. v. RADIO LABORATORIES.

13

Opinion of the Court.

claims were broad enough was entitled to the benefit of
other and related uses made manifest thereafter.
We think that for all these contentions of De Forest
adequate support exists in the record and the law. There
is evidence that in August, 1912, he discussed with his
assistants the possibility of using sustained oscillations
of the audion in generating and transmitting radio waves
as well as those of audio frequency. There is evidence
that intermittently in 1913 he worked upon that theory,
and particularly that on April 17 of that year at Palo
Alto, California, he received a clear note, the true heterodyne beat note, from the radio signal station at .San
Francisco Beach with -the aid of the coupled circuits.
The entry in his note book made the same day tells us,
"This day I got the long looked for beat note." This
was long before he had heard of Armstrong or'of like experiments by any one. There is evidence that in the
early part of 1914, he renewed his investigations in that
field of research, after being temporarily diverted, and
finally on February 27, 1914, recorded in his note book,
as the outcome of a number of experiments, that he had
"full proof that the audion acts hs a generator of high
frequency currents."
True there are circumstances that have been thought
to bear against him. Thus, in December, 1913, he read
a paper before the Institute of Radio Engineers on "The
Audion Detector and Amplifier." In the discussion following the paper he made answers which, it is argued,
are irreconcilable with a belief that there was a regenerative feed-back of radio frequencies from'the plate circuit
to the grid. He denies, however, that he intended to
convey the meaning now ascribed to him, and insists that
to his understanding in the heat of the digcussion the
audio and not the radio frequencies were the subject of
the questions. Much is made also of his failure to perfect his invention promptly or to apply promptly for a

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.

14

Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

'patent, the delay being extraordinary, it is argued, if a
conception so important in its possibilities of profit and
.utility was present in his mind. For this delay he gives
his explanations, lack of funds, preoccupation with other
uses of the audion having a cash value at the moment
(its: use, for illustration, as a telephone repeater), and
perhaps chiefly the belief that he was a pioneer in the
art without a rival in the offing. These explanations,
even if not wholly convincing, are not so manifestly inadequate as to lead us to say that the conception of the
oscillator as a generator of radio frequencies has been
proved in any clear or certain way to have been developed
and applied by Armstrong before it was born in De
Forest's mind. To say this, moreover, would not be
enough, even if we were willing to go so far, which, as
already stated, we are not. Vacuum tube oscillators have
a commercial use for other purposes besides radio. If
De Forest's explanations and. excuses were to be disregarded altogether, the result at most would be that the
apparatus of the coupled circuits had potencies and values
more important than. the uses that were immediately
apparent, potencies and values at least dimly apprehended, and never discarded or forgotten down to the
time of their complete fruition. -The benefit of all alike
belonged to the inventor. Corona Cord Tire Co. v.
Dovan Chemical Corp., 276 U.S. 358, '369; Roberts v.
Ryer, 91 U.S. 150, 157; Stow v., Chicago, 104 U.S. 547,
550; cf. Lovell Manufacturing Co. v. Cary, 147 U.S. 623,
634; The Telephone Cases, 126 U.S. 1, 536; Robinson,
Patents, Vol. 1, § 81, p. 124.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be
reversed and that of the Distict Court affirmed.
Reversed.

The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or
decisivu

of this case.

