OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

Finally, the respondent says that in the Revenue Act of
1932 ' the section corresponding to 204 (c) (2) was
amended so as to authorize such a procedure as the petitioner adopted in this case, and therefore the section as it
stood in the Act of 1926 could not have supported the
Commissioner's ruling. The amendment alters the section to read: " " In the case of oil and gas wells the allowance for depletion shall be 271/2 per centum of the gross
income from the property during the taxable year, excluding from such gross income an amount equal to any
rents or royalties paid or incurred by the taxpayer in respect of the property. . . ." The petitioner says that the
amendment was merely clarifying in purpose and declaratory of the existing law as administered. We think this is
so. When it was offered the chairman of the committee
having the bill in charge so stated," and the conference
report is to the same effect."
The judgment is
Reversed.
WILLIAM E. HERRING v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 176.

Argued November 16, 1934.-Decided December 3, 1934.

1. The percentage deduction from gross income permitted by § 204
(c)(2) of the Revenue Act of 1926 as an allowance for depletion
in the case of oil and gas wells, is applicable to advance royalties
and bonu.es received by a lessor upon the execution of an oil and
Stat. 169.
,a Section 114 (3), 47 Stat. 202.
,4 Cong. Record, Vol. 75, Part 10, pp. 11629-11630.
1247

1

*

House Conference Report No. 1492, 72d"Coag., 1st Sess.,.p. 14.
Together with No. 177, Eula Day Herring v. Commissioner, cer-

tiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.

HERRING v. COMMISSIONER.
322

323

Opinion of the Court.

gas mining lease, even though there were no wells on the property
and no production of oil or gas during the taxable year. Pp. 324,
327.
2. The regnactment of a statutory provision without alteration indicates legislative approval of administrative regulations theretofore
adopted and applied. P. 325.

70 F. (2d) 785, reversed.
CERTIORARI * to review judgments of the Circuit Court
of Appeals in two income tax cases, wherein decisions of
the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining the action, of the
Commissioner in disallowing claimed deductions for depletion were affirmed.

Mr. Robert Ash, with whom Mr. Leslie E. Martlew
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Assistant to the Attorney General Stanley, with whom
Solicitor General Biggs, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and Messrs. Sewall Key and J. Louis Monarch were
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioners are husband and wife and the income
which gives rise to this controversy is derived from community property. We are to determine whether, in computing net income under the Revenue Act of 1926, they
were entitled to deduct from advance royalty or bonus
received upon the execution of oil and gas leases the
statutory percentage allowance for depletion, it appear:ing that there was no production when the leases were
made, or at any time within the taxable year.
The petitibners' community estate held a half interest
in a partnership whose principal business was cattle raising. The firm owned a tract near Amarillo, Texas. In
1926 it leased portions of this land for the purpose of
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

mining and operating for oil and gas. In that year the
lessees paid an aggregate of $683,793.75 as advance royalties or bonuses, and were obligated to pay additional
royalties of one-eighth of the product or its value as oil
and gas were extracted. The leases were for terms of
five years and so long thereafter as oil and gas should be
produced. When the instruments were executed there
was no oil well within three and a half miles of the demised land. The lessors had no right to compel the
drilling of wells and none were put down during 1926.
In 1930 four were drilled which proved to be commercial
gas.wells, all made a showing of oil, and one produced
from eight to ten barrels a day.
In their tax returns for 1926 the petitioners each
claimed a pro rata share of a depletion allowance, of
$188,043.28, being 271/ per cent. of the bonus payments
to the partnership. The Commissioner disallowed the
claim. The Board of Tax Appeals sustained his decision.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the Board's action.'
We granted certiorari.
The pertinent sections of the Revenue Act of 1926 are
214 (a) (9) granting a reasonable deduction for depletion in the case of oil and gas wells, and 204 (c) (2) permitting computation of the allowance at 271/ per centuin
of the gross income from the property.
A bonus is not proceeds from the sale of property, but
paymentin advance for oil and gas to be extracted, and is
therefore taxable income.' As such it isa part of the
" gross income from the property " as the phrase is used
in § 204 (c) (2) to designate the base for the application
of the percentage deduction.' From these premises the
170 F. (2d) 785.
'Post, p. 541.
a44 Stat. 9, 14, 26-27; U. S. C. App. Tit. 26, §§ 935, 955.
4Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S.103; Murphy Oil Co. v. Burnet, id.
299; Bankers Pocahontas Coal Co. v. Burnet. id.30S.

HERRING v. COMMISSIONER.
322

325

Opinion of the Court.

petitioners argue that the bonus received does not lose
its character as income subject to depletion, merely because it happens that in the year of receipt there was no
production of the depletable asset.
The respondent replies that the allowance for depletior
is a matter of grace, not of right, and that the act fails
to grant any allowance on income such as that here involved. The argument is that in both the relevant sections of the act, the statute says "in the case of . . .
oil and gas wells " and this expression necessarily excludes
a case where no well exists. In support of this asserted
statutory exclusion it is urged that a depletion allowance
is essentially and exclusively reimbursement for wastage
or exhaustion of assets, and Congress could not have
meant to permit an allowance in any year in which there
was no exti action of oil or gas, and no practical assurance
of production in the future. We think these arguments
cannot prevail to defeat the petitioners' right to the
deduction.
Each of the Revenue Acts, 1916 to 1934 inclusive, has
granted as a deduction from gross income a reasonable
all, wance for depletion " in the case of . . . oil and gas
wel's." '
The regulations under the 1926 Act and its
predecessors dealing with cost depletion treated bonus or
advanced royalty as subject to depletion, ' and these have
been approved by re~nactment of the statutory provision
without alteration. That, under the law and the regulations, a lessor is entitled to a depletion allowance on bonus
payments is spttled by the decisions of this courtf. It
Sce United State.s v. Dakota-Montana Oil Co.. 288 U. S 459;
Hr!?)e?;,g v. Twin Bell Oil Syndicate, No. 170, decided this day. ante,
p. 312; R. A. 1932, § 23 (1) 47 Stat. 169, 181; R. A. 1934 § 23 (mr
48 Stal., 6S0, 680.
"Murphy Oil Co. v Burnet. 287 TT S. 99, 303.
Burnet v. Harmel. supra: Murphy Oil Co. v. Bv'net, -rupra:
Palmer v, Bender, 287 U. S. 551.

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

has never been held here that the existence of a well conditioned the right to depletion. Nor, until recently, has
the Treasury so ruled. After the decision of the Murphy
Oil Co. case, supra, there arose a doubt as to how the flat
percentage allowance first permitted by the Act of 1926
should be applied to bonus payments. In answer to a
request, the General Counsel of the Bureau of Internal
Revenue rendered an opinion 8 in which he said:
" The four situations to which attention is called are
as follows:
"(1) No oil being produced when the bonus was received, but future production practically assured because
of nearby wells and geological indications.
"(2) No oil being produced when the bonus was received, but property became productive within the taxable year.
"(3) No oil being produced when the' bonus was received, and not more than a speculative prospect of future oil production at that time, but property is now
known to have become productive after the taxable year.
"(4) Property has never become productive."
and held that depletion should be allowed in situations
(1) and (2) and denied in situations (3) and (4).
Ih the present case the Board of Tax Appeals followed
an earlier decision in which it had referred to portions of
the General Counsel's opinion with disapproval, but
found it unnecessary to decide whether it was sound."
In that case no welll-iaa t)een drilled o--the leased property within the taxable year in which the bonus was paid,,
anl the Board, saying that depletion could not be allowed except as an incident of actual production, refused the claimed percentage deduction. In a later case 10
G. C. -M. 11384, XII-1 Cumulative Bulletin 64.
"Glid,, z%Commissioner, 27 B. T. A. 1264. See also Umsted v
Cummissiou'r, 2S B. T. A. 176, :dlirmed 72 F. (2d) 328.
"necdv. Commissioner, 30 B. T. A. 1121.

HERRING v. COMMISSIONER.

327

Opinion of the Court.

322

where it appeared the whole of the petitioner's land was
proved oil and gas territory and a gas well had been
drilled in a prior year and shut in for lack of pipe-line
facilities, so that there was no actual production during
the taxable year in which the bonus was received, the
Board overruled the taxpayer's claim for depletion, adhering to its position that production during the year
was prerequisite to any allowance and refusing to follow
General Counsel's opinion.
The situation presented by the administrative rulings
is this: A bonus is not a receipt from a sale of a capital'
asset and may not be returned as such; it is income in the
year received; if any depletion is to be allowed against
the receipt, the allowance must be claimed for the year of
receipt; it cannot be allowed in any later year; " if the
taxpayer computes depletion upon the basis of cost or
March 1, 1913 value he may deduct depletion from a
bonus payment, irrespective of the sinking of a well or
the production of any oil or gas; 12 if, however, he elects
to avail himself of the alternative method of computing
deduction at a per cent. of gross income, though the
nature of the deduction is unchanged,' 3 he may not have
any unless there be production within the taxable year;
if the production be but trifling he may take a full percentage deduction upon the entire bonus, however disproportionate the allowance to the actual extraction of oil
during the year. To condition the allowance on actual
production, however small, or the imminent probability
of production, and to deal in refinements as to the degree
of probability of future production, is in many .cases to
deny any deduction where the taxpayer elects to compute
it under 204 (c) (2), flat percentage of gross income from
11 Compare Burnet v. Thompson Oil & Gas Co., 283 U. S. 301, 306.
12

See the regulations cited in Murphy Oil Co. v. Burnet, supra, at

p. 303.
'aUnited States v. Dakota-Montana Oil Co., supra, at p. 467.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

the property, and permit it where he elects to compute it
under 204 (c), on the basis of cost. But the nature and
the purpose of the allowance is the same in both cases,
and we find neither statutory authority nor logical justification for withholding it in the one and granting it in
the other; much less for making the decision turn upon
the circumstance that no production is obtained within
the year in which the bonus is paid.
As to income tax liability in the year of termination of
the lease, on account of bonus paid at the execution of
the lease, if no mineral has then been extracted, we express
no opinion.
The judgments are
Reversed.
DAVIS v. AETNA ACCEPTANCE CO.
CERTIORARI'TO THE APPELLATE COURT OF ILLINOIS, FIRST

DISTRICT.
No. 68. Argued November 9, 1934.-Decided December 3, 1934.
1. A creditor to whom a bankrupt owes money on a promissory note
and against whom the bankrupt has committed an act of conversion by an unauthorized sale of personal property mortgaged to
secure the note, may prove on the note, "a fixed liability as evidenced by an instrument in writing," Bankruptcy Act, § 63 (1),
or may waive the tort and prove on the implied assumpsit, § 63
(4); but he cannot escape the discharge by electing to ignore the
bankruptcy proceedings and suing on the tort. P. 331.
2. Section 17 (2) of the Bankruptcy Act, which excepts from discharge liabilities for "willful and malicious injuries" to the property of another, does not embrace a technical conversion, committed
against the mortgagee of personal property by the mortgagor in
possession, by an unauthorized sale, if the act was not in fact wilful or malicious but done innocently in the honest though mistaken
belief that authority to sell existed. P. 331.
3. Section "17 (4) of the Bankruptcy Act, which excepts from discharge liabilities of a bankrupt created by his fraud, embezzlement,
etc., while acting in any "fiduciary capacity," refers to strict trusts,

