OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

Bank in the absence of the intervention of a purchaser in
good faith for value did not lose its rights by the agreement under which the cotton which it had duly acquired
was to be held for its account. There is no equality of
equities, for it was through the action of the CanalLouisiana Bank and the apparent ownership it created in
Dreuil & Company that the Commercial Bank was led
to advance its money upon the faith of the documents of
title.
The decree is reversed and the cause is remanded with
direction to enter a decree in favor of the appellant.
It is 8o ordered.

UNITED STATES v. ROSS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 131. Argued December 10, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.
An army regulation can have force only so far as it may be deemed to
be in accord with the Acts of Congress.
Qucsre whether § 1235, Rev. Stat., was intended to preclude a recovery
by an enlisted man of extra duty pay where the detail of extra duty
was by competent authority but not in writing and the extra duty
was actually performed.
Under the Hospital Corps Act of March 1, 1887, c. 311, 24 Stat. 435,
and the Army Regulations 1433, 1435, 1436, members of the Hospital Corps are required to perform, for stated pay, all duties properly
incident to the conduct of hospitals as efficient institutions including
maintenance of telephone and telegraph office when necessary in the
judgment of the military authorities.
Whether maintenance of a telephone and telegraph office in a military
hospital is necessary calls in the first instance for judgment of the
Department; and, in the absence of clear abuse of necessary official
discretion, this court will not overrule the judgment of the Department that it is a necessary part of the maintenance of the hospital

UNITED STATES v. ROSS.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

within the provisions of the statute and that an enlisted man detailed to perform dutie, in connection thereunder is not entitled to
extra duty pay.
49 Ct. Cl. 55, reversed.
THE facts, whicl involve the construction and applica-

tion of statutes oi the United States and military regulations in regard to conduct of military hospitals, and the
right of an enli,,ted man to extra pay for services in connection- with a military hospital, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralHuston Thompson for the
United States.
Mr. CharlesF. Consaul, with whom Miss IdaM. Moyers
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The United States brings this appeal from a judgment
of the Court of Claims awarding to Cecil D. Ross the sum
of $303.45, as extra pay while he was in charge of the
telegraph and telephone office at the general hospital,
Presidio of San Francisco. 49 Ct. Cl. 55.
The facts found by the court were in substance as follows: The claimant enlisted on April 25, 1900, as an infan'try private in the United States Army; he was transferred to the Hospital Corps and on November 8, 1900,
to the general hospital at the Presidio where he was placed
in charge of the telegraph and telephone office by verbal
order of the surgeon commanding; and he performed
duties accordingly, save for intervals of sickness, until
he was discharged from the service on April 24, 1903, by
reason of the expiration of his term of enlistment. He was
not under the supervision of any one connected with the
Signal Corps but remained under the orders of the medical

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

officer in command at the hospital. No pay was given
to him on account of his services as telegrapher other than
the usual pay and allowances of a private in the Hospital
Corps. The muster rolls in the hospital show that during
the entire period, except when sick, he was reported as
'telegraph operator.' These muster rolls, 'returns from
the Hospital Corps,' passed under the review of the
detailing and commanding officers at the hospital and in
due course reached the War Department. An effort was
made by the hospital authorities to secure the detail of a
man from the Signal Corps in the place of the claimant
but failed. During the time that the claimant was on
duty at the hospital, he was excused from other duties,
calls, details and inspection. The fact that he was performing duty in the telegraph and telephone department
through the entire period, as stated, was personally known
to the major and surgeon commanding. The findings also
set forth the following exhibit:
"U. S. A. General Hospital,
"Presidio, San Francisco, Cal., November 23, 1903.
"Respectfully returned to Cecil D. Ross, late private,
first class, Hospital Corps, U. S. A., Holly Springs, Miss.,
with the information that the following endorsement was
written in this office on a communication from the Chief,
Record and Pension Office, War Department, Washington,
D. C., requesting information regarding your detail on
extra duty in the telegraph office at this hospital:
'U. S. A. General Hospital,
'Presidio of S. F., Cal., November 12, 1903.
'Respectfully returned to the Chief, Record and Pension
Office, War Department, Washington, D. C., with the
information that Private Cecil D. Ross, Hospital Corps,
U. S. Army, joined at this hospital for duty Nov. 8, 1900,
and was discharged April 24, 1903, by reason of expiration
of term of enlistment.
'He was on duty in the telephone and telegraph office

UNITED STATES v. ROSS.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

at this hospital from Nov. 9, 1900, until date of discharge,
but no printed order was ever issued detailing him on
extra duty, as at an institution of this kind there are many
duties to be performed, the general character of which are
similar.

'W. P. Kendall,
'Major and Surgeon, U. S. A., Commanding.'
Although no order was issued detailing you on extra
duty in the telephone and telegraph office at this hospital,
you, nevertheless, performed this duty from November 9,
1900, until the date of your discharge.
W. P. Kendall,
Major and Surgeon, U. S. Army, Commanding Hospital."
The Government insists that there is no statutory
authority for extra-duty pay to enlisted men of the Medical Department of the Army, that the right of recovery
is denied by the Army Regulations and by statute, and
that the claimant did not perform extra duty.
From an early date, provision has been made for the
payment of enlisted men on extra duty at 'constant labor
of not less than ten days.' Acts of Mar. 2, 1819, c. 45,
3 Stat. 488; May 19, 1846, c. 22, 9 Stat. 14; July 13, 1866,
c. 176, 14 Stat. 93; Feb. 1, 1873, c. 88, 17 Stat. 422; Revised Statutes, § 1287; Acts of July 5, 1884, c. 217, 23
Stat. 110; Mar. 3, 1885, c. 339, 23 Stat. 359. For the
present purpose, we may assume that the Court of Claims
correctly construed the provisos of the appropriation acts
of July 5, 1884, and March 3, 1885, as amendatory of
§ 1287 of the Revised Statutes, and as thus having the
effect of providing a general rule. 49 C. Cls., pp. 63-65.
See Army Regulations (1889), 163; (1895) 165; (1901) 183;
(1904) 168; (1908) 168; (1910) 169; (1913) 170; 14 Comp.
Dec., p. 153; 15 Comp. Dec., p. 375. The applicable clause,
in this view, of the act of 1885 provides that "such extraduty pay hereafter shall be at the rate of fifty cents per
day for mechanics, artisans, school-teachers, and clerks at

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

Army, division, and department headquarters, and thirtyfive cents per day for other clerks, teamsters, laborers, and
other enlisted men on extra duty."
The regulation in force at the time in question-to
which the Government refers as denying the right of recovery--states that "enlisted men of the several staff departments will not be detailed on extra duty without
authority from the Secretary of War. They are not entitled to extra-duty pay for services rendered in their respective departments." Army Regulations (1895), 167;
(1901) 185. And the statute which the Government cites
(Rev. Stats., § 1235) provides that detail for employment
in "constant labor" shall be "only upon the written order
of a commanding .officer, when such detail is for ten or
more days." We agree with the contention of the claimant
that the regulation can have force only so far as it maybe
deemed to be in accord with the acts of Congress; and we
may assume in deciding the present case, as was held by
the court below, that § 1235 of the Revised Statutes was
not intended to preclude a recovery of extra-duty pay,
where there had been a detail to extra duty by competent
authority, although not in writing, and extra duty entitling the enlisted man to extra pay under the statute
had actually been performed.
But the question remains whether the claimant did perform 'extra duty.' The term is obviously a relative one;
and it cannot be determined that the enlisted man was
performing extra duty without a complete understanding
of the scope of the duties which he might properly be expected to perform in accordance with his enlistment without receiving extra pay. What might.be extra duty in the
case of men of the line might not be extra duty in the case
of men in the staff departments. The claimant had been
transferred to the Hospital Corps; by that transfer he became a member of that Corps and bound to perform, without extra pay, any of the duties which pertained to that

UNITED STATES v. ROSS.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

service. The act of March 1, 1887, c. 311 (24 Stat. 435),
organizing the Hospital Corps, defining its duty, and fixing
the pay of its members (as amended by the act of July 13,
1892, c. 162; 27 Stat. 120) provides:
"That the Hospital Corps of the United States Army
shall consist of hospital stewards, acting hospital stewards,
and privates; and all necessary hospital services in garrison, camp, or field (including ambulance service) shall
be performed by the members thereof, who shall be regularly enlisted in the military service; said Corps shall be
permanently attached to the Medical Department, and
shall not be included in the effective strength of the Army
nor counted as a part of the enlisted force provided by law.
"SEc. 2. That the Secretary of War is empowered to
appoint as many hospital stewards as, in his judgment, the
service may require; but not more than one hospital
steward shall be stationed at any post or place without
special authority of the Secretary of War.
"SEc. 5. That the Secretary of War is empowered to
enlist, or cause to be enlisted, as many privates of the
Hospital Corps as the service may require, and to limit
or fix the number, and make such regulations for their
government as may be necessary; and any enlisted man
in the Army shall be eligible for transfer to the Hospital
Corps as a private. They shall perform duty as wardmasters, cooks, nurses, and attendants in hospitals, and
as stretcher-bearers, litter-bearers, and ambulance attendants in the field, and such other duties as may by proper
authority be required of them.
"SEc. 6. That the pay of privates of the Hospital Corps
shall be eighteen dollars per month, with the increase on
account of length of service as is now or may hereafter be
allowed by law to other enlisted men. They shall be entitled to the same allowances as a corporal of the arm of
service with which they may be on duty."

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

The Army Regulations of 1895 contained the following:
"1433. General hospitals will be under the exclusive
control of the Surgeon-General and will be governed
by such regulations as the Secretary of War may prescribe.
"1435. The senior surgeon is charged with the management and is responsible for the condition of the post hospital, which will be at all times subject to inspection by the
commanding officer.
"1436. The surgeon of the post will assign his assistants
and the members of the Hospital Corps to duty, and report
them on the muster rolls in the capacity in which they are
serving.
See Army Regulations (1901) 1621, 1628, 1629; (1913)
1439, 1447, 1448.
It cannot be doubted that it was the intention that the
members of the Hospital Corps should perform, for the
stated, pay, all the duties that are properly incident to
the conduct of hospitals as efficient instrumentalities. The
Act provides that the privates 'shall perform duty as
wardmasters, cook§, nurses, and attendants in hospitals . . . and such other duties as may by proper
authority be required of them.' We know of no way of
defining these 'other duties' except by reference to what
may be reasonably demanded in the conduct of a fully
equipped hospital, considered as an administrative unit
including all that is required in its varied work. Telephone service may well be regarded as essential to the
convenient conduct of a properly. managed institution of
this sort. With a correct understanding of its needs that
facility may be deemed to be no less incidental to the
hospital service than attendance at the door, or in the
reception room, or in connection with the offices of administration. And if 'inthe practical judgment of the
military authorities the efficient management of a general hospital requires the maintenance of both a telephone

UNITED STATES v. ROSS.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and telegraph office, we know of no ground for saying
that members of the Corps who are assigned to this duty
as a part of the current work of the establishment are
any more entitled to extra pay than they would be in any
other of the numerous activities which the successful administration of the hospital may demand.
Certainly, the question' was one calling in the first instance for the practical judgment of the Department.
Numerous regulations, for a very long period of years,
have shown the desire to prevent abuses in the service by
unwarranted details to 'extra duty' as a basis for extra
pay. The regulation, above quoted, that enlisted men of
the several staff departments will not be detailed on extra
duty without authority from the Secretary of War is
significant in this aspect. In the conduct of an institution
like a general hospital, where Congress has provided that
all necessary services shall be performed by the members
of the Hospital Corps, there is every reason for caution,
and for the exercise of careful official judgment, in determining whether a particular case justifies or requires a
detail on 'extra duty.' It is said that the authorities
in the present instance endeavored to secure the detail of
a member of the Signal Corps for the duty in question,
but clearly we may not infer from the failure to obtain
such assistance from the outside that the service was not
regarded as within the scope of the duties which members
of the Hospital Corps might properly be required to perform. The inference is to the contrary.
The judgment of the Department was that the claimant
was not on extra duty. He was not in fact assigned on
extra duty; there was no such detail in accordance with
the regulations or the statute as there should have been
if he was considered to be on extra duty. And, in the
only official report relative to the matter, it appears that
'no printed order was ever issued detailing him on extra
duty, as at an institution of this kind there are many

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

duties to be performed, the general character of which are
similar.'
We are asked to overrule this departmental judgment,
and to take this service out of the broad description of
the statute relating to the duties of members of the Hospital Corps. We find no basis for such action. On the
contrary, we cannot escape the conclusion that, in view
of the provisions of the Act of Congress and of the authorized regulations with respect to the conduct of military hospitals, we are not at liberty to say that extra-duty
pay has been earned in connection with service thereinwhere there was no detail on extra duty-unless there
is a clear abuse of the necessary official discretion. No
such abuse is shown here.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the cause
remanded with direction to dismiss the claimant's
petition..
It is so ordered.

MOSS v. RAMEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.
No. 61. Argued December 9, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.
The inference naturally arising from the silence of the field notes and
plat that there was no island at the time of the survey, or if any, only

one of inconsiderable area and value, is refutable; and in this case the
evidence does refute such inference and demonstrates the existence
of the island in-its present condition at the time of the survey.
An error of the surveyor in failing to extend a survey over an island
in a river does not make it any the less a part of the public domain.
Fast dry land, which is neither a part of the bed of a river nor land
under water, being part of the public domain within the Territory
of Idaho did not pass to the State on admission to the Union but remained public land as before.

