WAGNER v. BALTIMORE.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

United States. United States v. Kimbal, 13 Wall. 636.
Reybold v. United States, 15 Wall. 202. Schillinger v.
United States, 155 U. S. 163. Harley v. United States,
198 U. S. 229, 234. Peabody v. United States, 231 U. S.
530, 539. We see no ground except the impression that
this is a hard case to apply the principle of United States v.
Russell, 13 Wall. 623.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in

the con-

sideration or decision of this case.

PHILLIP WAGNER, INCORPORATED, v. LESER
ET AL., JUDGES AND TAX COLLECTOR OF
BALTIMORE CITY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
MARYLAND.
No. 28. Argued October 25, 26, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not interfere with the discretionary
power of the States to raise necessary revenues by imposing taxes
and assessments within their jurisdiction; nor are general taxing
systems to be presumed to be lacking in due process of law because
of inequalities or objections so long as arbitrary action is avoided.
A State may, without violating the Fourteenth Amendment, exercise
its authority to assess property on account of special benefit resulting
from an improvement already made.
An assessment for improvements already made and paid for, is not an
unconstitutional deprivation of property without due process of
law because the amount when paid is to be used for other public
purposes to which public funds are properly applicable.
Where the classification of property to be improved and the assessment are fixed by the statute itself and a specified sum fixed ratably

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

239 U. S.

according to area of the property, notice and hearing as to amount
and extent of benefits are not required, in the absence of abuse of
power, in order to render such legislative action due process of law
within the meaning of the Federal Constitution. Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S. 345.
While constitutional protection against deprivation of property without due process of law is available to persons deprived of private
rights by arbitrary state action, whether by legislative authority or
otherwise, no such deprivation exists where, as in this case, there
is no proof of disproportion between the assessment made and the
benefit conferred showing arbitrary legislative action.
The Maryland Statutes of 1906 and 1908 providing for imposition of
a special tax on property in Baltimore at a specified rate per square
foot for a specified number of years for paving the streets of that
city held not to be arbitrary and unconstitutional as depriving the
owners of their property without due process of law.
120 Maryland, 671, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a

statute of Maryland and a tax levy thereunder on property in Baltimore for improving the paving of streets in
that city, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Geo. Washington Williams and Mr. Charles J.
Bonaparte, with whom Mr. John Holt Richardson was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
A legislature cannot bind parties interested by a recital
of facts, or prescribed conclusive rules of evidence, for
either of these would be only an indirect method of disposing of controversies. Cooley, Const. Law, 46.
Due process of law is not confined to judicial proceedings. The article of the Constitution is a restraint on the
legislative as well as on the executive and judicial powers
of the Government. Murray v. Hoboken Land Co., 18
How. 272; Ulman v. Baltimore, 72 Maryland, 592; Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 278; State v. Newark, 37 N.
J. L. 415, 423; Thomas v. Gain, 35 Michigan, 155, 162;
Tidewater Co. v. Coster, 18 N. J. Eq. (3 C. E. Green) 519;
Stuart v. Palmer, 74 N. Y. 183.

WAGNEIR r. B.ALTIMORiE.
239 U. S.

Argmnent for Plaintiff in Error.

There is great dissimilarity between an assessment or
tax for general purposes and an assessment for special
benefits. Dillon on Mun. Corp., ยง 761.
The act is invalid because the proceeds derived from
the assessment were expressly designed to be applied to
the improvement of streets other than those which had
been assessed specially, and, therefore, the said assessment
is not made to pay for improvements specially benefiting
the property thereby assessed.
The act disturbs vested rights, to-wit: By imposing a
tax or special assessment upon property for special benefits long since accrued to said property, which improvements had been paid for in whole or in part other than
by special assessment upon the property abutting thereon.
The act is retrospective in its operation, thereby disturbing the rights, which had accrued to and become
fixed in property holders coming within its terms and
provisions of said act. Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 278.
The general law relative to taxation has always been
held inapplicable to assessments. The general law requires all property to be assessed for the general purposes
of Government according to its value and therefore, if a
piece of property escapes the tax assessors it may later
be assessed for such time as it has escaped taxation. That
would imply carrying out an intention theretofore declared, and would not be retrospective in the legal conception of that term.
Where the municipality has discretion as to whether
a local improvement shall be paid for by special assessment or by general taxation, it cannot, after the improvement had been made, levy special assessment therefor.
25 Am. & Eng. Enc. 1176.; Bennett v. Seibert, 10 Inc. App.
380; Spaulding v. Bates, 25 Inc. App. 490; Galveston R. R.
v. Green, 35 S. W. Rep. 819; Holliday v. Atlanta, 96
Georgia, 377-381; Kelly v. Luning, 76 California, 309;
Bennett v. Emmetsburg, 115 N. W. Rep. 582-588; Pease
VOL. ccxxxix-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

239 U. S.

v. Chicago, 21 Illinois, 500; Doutherty v. Chicago, 53
Illinois, 79; Market Street Case, 49 California, 546; Alford
v. Dallas, 35 S. W. Rep. 816; Cooley on Taxation, p. 1155;
Seattle v. Kelleher, 195 U. S. 351.
Matter of Flatbush Lands does not apply, and see 60
N. Y. 398.
The front foot rule, when made applicable to the city
as a whole, is arbitrary, inequitable, unjust and oppressive.
Ulman v. Baltimore, 72 Maryland, 587; Cass Farm Co. v.
Detroit, 181 U. S. 396; Parkerv. Detroit, id. 399; Zehnder
v. The Barber Asphalt Co., 106 Fed. Rep. 107.
Special assessments upon property for the cost of public
improvements are in violation of the Constitution, if they
are in substantial excess of benefits received. Sears v.
Boston, 173 Massachusetts, 550; Weed v. Same, 172
Massachusetts, 28; Dexter v. Boston, 176 Massachusetts,
247; Hall v. Street Com., 177 Massachusetts, 434; Lorden
v. Coffey, 178 Massachusetts, 489.
The act is illegal and void, because it arbitrarily imposes
a fixed sum upon property holders as and for special
benefits alleged to have been received, without giving an
opportunity to the property holder to show as a matter
of fact said property is not benefited to the extent to
which it is declared by the act to be benefited, and is
therefore a taking of property without due process of law.
8 Cyc. 1083, 1108; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366; Murray v. Hoboken Co., 18 How. 272; Ulman v. Baltimore, 72
Maryland, 587; Clark v. Mitchell, 69 Missouri, 627; United
States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542; Cooley's Con. Lim.
503-505; Columbia Bank Case, 4 Wheat. 235; Am. & Eng.
Encyc. 1173; Maryland Trust Co. v. Baltimore, 93 Atl.
Rep. 454.
Notice should have been given even though the apportionment was made by the legislature; in view of the
oppressiveness and arbitrariness of the rule established
by the legislature, and its unjust and unequal operation

WAGNER v. BALTIMORE.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in this case, notice should have been required, and in its
absence, the act should be held unconstitutional.
The act imposes upon the property coming within its
terms, a special tax which was not contemplated by the
authority which improved the various streets of Baltimore
City, at the times of such improvement as a means of
meeting the expense of the same.
The act covers all property coming within its terms,
even though the statute or ordinance under which such
improvements were made, declare that such improvements
were made for the public benefit, and not for local advantage to the property abutting upon such improvements.
In this event the two acts would be conflicting and it
would certainly be against public policy to adhere to the
latter act. Property holders would never be secure in
their holdings. An act of this character really amounts
to an assessment upon one street for the benefit of another.
The act is void on the ground that it imposes a double
tax, in part at least, for the same benefit. State v. Newark,
37 N. J. L. 415.
Mr. S. S. Field, with whom Mr. Alexander Preston was
on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR.JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Phillip Wagner, a corporation, filed its bill on behalf
of itself and other taxpayers owning property in Baltimore City, adjoining or abutting upon a public highway
which has been paved with improved paving without
having been assessed -for any part of the cost thereof,
and who are similarly situated with the complainant,
who is the owner of certain real estate, improved by
seven two-story dwelling houses, situated on Philadelphia
Road, a public highway within the limits of Baltimore

OCTOBER TEIIM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

City, which property abuts and adjoins upon the public
highway, which had been paved with improved paving,
to-wit, vitrified brick, which property, or its present or
former owner, had never been specially assessed for any
part of the cost of said improved paving. The bill was
filed for the purpose of enjoining the enforcement of a
certain act of the General Assembly of the State of Maryland (1906, Chapter 401; 1908, Chapter 202, of the Laws
of Maryland), by which statute the General Assembly
enacted that a special tax be levied and imposed upon
property in the City of Baltimore benefited by improved
paving of the amount specified; said tax to continue as
to each property for ten years from the time it attached
thereto, the proceeds to be used for improved paving in
the City of Baltimore, as provided in the act. The act
provided that, for these purposes, all landed property in
the City of Baltimote, adjoining or abutting upon any
public, highway, which had been or should thereafter
be paved with improved paving without special assessment of any part of the cost upon the abutting or adjoining property owners, by the City of Baltimore or
the State Roads Comnission, or other public conimission or agency, or by said city and such commission
or agency, or by either or both, and any railroad or
railway company occupying with tracks a portion of
such highway, was declared to be specially benefited by
such improved paving to an extent greater than the entire
amount of the special tax levied under the act. The
property so benefited was divided into three classes:
Class A to include all landed property in the City of Baltimore, adjoining or abutting upon a public highway paved
with improved paving and having a width of not less
than thirty feet so paved; Class B to include all such
landed property in the City of Baltimore adjoining or
abutthig upon a public highway paved with improved
paving awd having a width of less than thirty feet and

WAGNER v. BALTIMORE.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not less than fifteen feet so paved; Class C to include all
such landed property in the City of Baltimore adjoining
or abutting upon any public highway paved with improved paving and having a width of less than fifteen feet
so paved. The Appeal Tax Court of the City of Baltimore is authorized and directed by the act to proceed to
classify and list for taxation, as provided by the act, for
the year 1913, all landed property in the City of Baltimore which, on the first day of November, 1912, was in a
situation to come under the requirements of either pf
said classes. Before classifying any property under the
special tax provided in the act, the Appeal Tax Court
was required to give notice to the owner of the property,
designating a certain time when the owner might appear
before the court and be heard with- reference to the liability of his property for the tax, and the class to which
it properly belonged. After having given the owner reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard, the Appeal
Tax Court is required to proceed to make the classification provided, and to certify their action, in making such
classification tG) the City Collector in the same manner
as in cases of classification of real and leasehold property
in the annex for the different rates of taxation as provided under the Act relating thereto; and the City Collector is authorized to add the special tax to the tax bills
of the property, to be called "Special Paving Tax," and
to collect the same in the mi nner as ordinary taxes on
real estate are collected. The City Collector is required
to account for and pay over to the Comptroller, to be
by him deposited with the City Register and to be placed
to the credit of a new paving fund provided in the Acts
of 1906, Chapter 401, and 1908, Chapter 202, and to he
exclusively applicable to the cost of the work authorized
by said acts, or by any amendment or amendments
thereof. Section 3 of the act defines improved paving
to mean any substantial, smooth paving above the grade

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

of ordinary macadam, and to include granite or belgian
blocks, vitrified brick or blocks, wood blocks, asphalt or
concrete blocks, sheet asphalt, bitulithic bituminous macadam and bituminous concrete. Section 4 specifies the
amount of the special tax to be as follows: On all property embraced in Class A, fifteen cents per year per
front foot or lineal foot adjoining or abutting upon the
public highway; on all property embraced in Class B,
ten cents per year per front foot or lineal foot adjoining
or abutting upon the public highway; and on all property
embraced in Class C, five cents per year per front foot
or lineal foot adjoining or abutting upon the public highway.
The bill recites that, under and by virtue of that act,
Chapter 688 of the Acts of 1912, the General Assembly
has attempted to levy and impose upon the property of
the plaintiff and other property owners similarly situated,
taxes uinder the three classes mentioned, and that the
Appeal Tax Court of Baltimore is proceeding now to list
and classify for taxes the property so attempted to be
levied upon by said act, and has classified said property
of the plaintiff, designating it as belonging to Class A.
The bill then sets forth various grounds upon which it
is claimed the act is illegal, the one with whichthis court
is concerned being that it is in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The Act of 1906, to which reference is made in the act
just recited, Chapter 401, as amended by Chapter 202
of the Acts of 1908, provides for the creation of a paving
commission for the City of Baltimore, with powers to
carry out a plan for a complete system of improved paving
of the streets of the city. The Court of Appeals in its
opinion in this case states that a fund of $5,000,000 was
procured by means of a loan provided for this purpose,
which loan was approved by the people at an election
held on the 2nd of May, 1911, and that the act was sus-

WAGNER v. BALTIMORE.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tained by the Court 'of Appeals in the case of Bond v.
Baltimore, 118. Maryland, 159; and that .the object and
purpose of the Act of 1912 was to raise an additional.
fund of $5,000,000, to complete the plan adopted by
the city for improved pavements throughout the city,
and that this is to be done by a special paving tax upon
property in the city specially benefited by improved
paying as provided in the act.
The bill was demurred to upon certain grounds: that
the complainant had an adequate remedy at law; that
the Act of 1912 in question did not violate the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution or Bill of
Rights of the State of Maryland; that the houses of the
plaintiff were enjoying. special benefit and advantage,
fronting upon a street improved with vitrified brick
pavement, while other houses in the city are upon unhealthy and unsightly cobble stone streets, for which
special advantage the charge put upon the houses of the
plaintiff by the act in question amounts to $1.80 per
year upon each of the houses, or $18.00 upon each house
for the entire ten years. The demurrer sets forth certain
other reasons why a court of equity should not intervene
not necessary to repeat. The demurrer was overruled
in the Circuit Court of Baltimore City, and upon appeal
to the Court of Appeals of Maryland, that court reversed
the lower court and sustained the constitutionality of
the act as against the attacks thereon both under the
state and Federal Constitutions. (120 Maryland, 621.)
We will notice such matters as are deemed necessary
in order to dispose of the contentions concerning the
alleged violation of rights secured to the complainant
under the Federal Constitution. The provision of that
instrument to which appeal is made by the complainant
is the Fourteenth Amendment in the protection secured
thereunder against state action which has the effect to
deprive of property without due process of law. This

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

court has frequently affirmed that the general taxing
systems of the State are not to be presumed lacking in
due process of law because of inequalities or objections, so
long as arbitrary action is avoided. It is not the purpose
of the Fourteenth Amendment to interfere with the discretionary power of the States to raise necessary revenues
by imposing taxes and assessments upon property within
their jurisdictions.
It is first contended that the complainant is deprived of
its property without due process of law, because the special
assessment levied upon its property is for special benefits
long since accrued, and that the statute under consideration is retrospective in its operation, thereby disturbing
rights which had accrued to and become fixed in the property holders long before the passage of the statute; that
the State had no authority because of benefits thus long
since conferred to make the assessment in question. But
we deem this contention foreclosed by the decision of
this court in Seattle v. Kelleher, 195 U. S.351. In that
case it was contended that there could be no valid assessment for a certain improvement, because it was levied
after the work was completed, but this court met that
contention by saying (p. 359):
"The principles of taxation are not those of contract.
A special assessment may be levied upon an executed
consideration, that is to say, for a public work already
done. Bellows v. Weeks, 41 Vermont, 590, 599, 600;
Mills v. Charleton, 29 Wisconsin, 400, 413; Hall v. Street
Commissioners, 177 Massachusetts, 434, 439. If this were
not so it might be hard to justify reassessments. See
Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269, 293; Williams v. Supervisors of Albany, 122 U. S. 154; Frederick v. Seattle,
13 Washington, 428; Cline v. Seattle, 13 Washington,
444; Bacon v. Seattle, 15 Washington, 701; Cooley, Taxation, 3d ed., 1280. .......
Of course, it does not matter
that this is called a reassessment. A reassessment may

WAGNER v. BALTIMORE.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be a new assessment. Whatever the legislature could
authorize if it were. ordering an assessment for the first
time it equally could authorize, notwithstanding a previous invalid attempt to assess. The, previous attempt
left the city free 'to take such steps as were within its
power to take, either under existing statutes, or under
any authority that might thereafter be conferred upon
it, to make a new assessment upon the plaintiff's abutting
property' in any constitutional way. Norwood v. Baker,
172 U. S. 269, 293; McNamee v. Tacoma, 24 Washington,
591; Annie Wright Seminary v. Tacoma, 23 Washington,
109."
The doctrine established by this case is that a subsequent assessment may be levied because of.benefits conferred by the former action of the city in improving in
front of the lots assessed. As said in the Kelleher Case
(p. 359), "the benefit was there on the ground at the
city's expense." So far as any Federal constitutional
requirement is concerned, the State might exercise its
authority to assess because of this special benefit, although that assessment was deferred for some time after
the work was done at the public expense. And these
considerations suggest the answer to another objection
made in this connection, that it is proposed to use the
assessments for paving other streets within the city. It
is true that the assessments are to go into the general
fund provided for such general use. But we are unable
to see how the constitutional rights of the complainant
are violated, so long as there was as to it a benefit formerly
conferred, and still existing, which the property had derived at the public expense. The fact that the city was
authorized to use the assessment in creating a public
fund, in aid of its scheme to pave other streets of the
city, was a public purpose, and a legitimate one, for which
funds of the city might be used.
It is further urged, and much stress seems to be laid

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

upon this point, that the complainant and others similarly
situated were given no opportunity to be heard as to
the amount of benefits conferred upon them, and the
proper adjustment of the taxes among property owners.
But this question, like the other, is foreclosed by the
former decisions of this court. This assessment, and the
classification of the property to be improved, were fixed
and designated by legislative act. It was declared that
the property which had been improved by paving theretofore should, according to the width of the paving in
front of the respective properties, be assessed at a certain
sum per foot front. We think such a tax, when levied
by the legislature, did not require notice and a hearing
as to the amount and extent of benefits conferred in order
to render the legislative action due process of law within
the meaning of the Federal Constitution. In Spencer v.
Merchant, 125 U. S. 345, 356, this court, speaking by
Mr. Justice Gray, said:
"In the absence of any more specific constitutional
restriction than the general prohibition against taking
property without due process of law, the legislature of
the State, having the power to fix the sum necessary to
be levied for the expense of a public improvement, and
to order it to be assessed, either, like other taxes, upon
property generally, or only upon the lands benefited by
the improvement, is authorized to determine both the
amount of the whole tax, and the class of lands which
will receive the benefit and should therefore bear the
burden, although it may, if it sees fit, commit the ascertainment of either or both of these facts to the judgment
of commissioners."
This case has been followed and approved in subsequent
decisions in this court. Parsons v. District of Columbia,
170 U. S. 45, 50, 56; French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co.,
181 U. S. 324, 343. In the latter case, the former cases
in this court were reviewed at length, and Spencer v.

WAGNER v BALTIMORE.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Merchant, quoted. with approval; Norwood v. Baker,
172 U. S. 269, was commented upon and distinguished.
French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., supra, was followed
and approved in a series of cases in the same volume:
Wight v. Davidson, 371; Tonawanda v. Lyon, 389; Webster v. Fargo, 394; Cass Farm.Co. v. Detroit, 396; Detroit v.
Parker,399; Wormley v. District,402; Shumate v. Heman,
402; Farrell v. Commissioners, 404. French v. Barber
Asphalt Paving Co., supra, was referred to with approval
in Hibben v. Smith, 191 U. S. 310, 326. See also Louis.
& Nash. R. R. v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 197 U. S.
430; Martin v. District of Columbia, 205 U. S. 135.
Norwood v. Baker, supra, is much relied upon by the
plaintiff in error, and while this court has shown no disposition to overrule that case when limited to the decision actually made by the court, much that is said in it
must be read in connection with the subsequent cases
in this court already referred to. In Norwood v. Baker,
a portion of a person's property, located in a village of
Ohio, was condemned for street purposes and the entire
cost of opening the street, including the amount paid
for the strip condemned, with the costs and expenses of
condemnation, was assessed upon the abutting property
owner whose land was condemned. This, it was said in
French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., supra, was an abuse
of the law and an act of confiscation, and not a valid
exercise of the taxing power. Taking the decisions in
this court together, we think that it results that the legislature of a State may determine the amount to be assessed
for a given improvement and designate the lands and
property benefited thereby, upon which the assessment
is to be made,- without first giving an opportunity to the
owners of the property to be assessed to be heard upon
the amount of the assessment or the extent of the benefit
conferred.
We do not understand this to mean that there may

OCTOBERk TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

not be cases of such flagrant abuse of legislative power
as would warrant the intervention of a court of equity
to protect the constitutional rights of land owners, because of arbitrary and wholly unwarranted legislative
action. The constitutional protection against deprivation of property without due process of law would certainly be available to persons arbitrarily deprived of
their private rights by such state action, whether under
the guise of legislative authority or otherwise. But in
the present case there is neither allegation nor proof of
such disproportion between the assessment made and
the benefit conferred as to suggest that the small tax
levied upon this property would amount to an arbitrary
exercise of the legislative power upon the subject. There
can be no question that paving with brick in front of
the property of the complainant conferred a substantial
benefit, and gave authority for the subsequent legislation which, because of that benefit, original and continuing, warranted an assessment upon the property
owner for a confessedly public purpose,-the improvement
of the streets of the city.
We are unable to find that- the act of the legislature
in question, or the manner of its present enforcement,
operates to deprive the complainant and others similarly
situated of any rights secured to them by the Federal
Constitution. The judgment of the Court of Appeals
of Maryland is
Affirmed.
MR.

dissent.

JUSTICE PITNEY

and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

