OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Appellants.

239 U. S.,

ROBERT MOODY & SON v. CENTURY SAVINGS
BANK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 70. Argued November 10, 11,.1915.-Decided December 13, 1915.
A petition filed by a trustee in bankruptcy in the bankruptcy proceeding, asserting title to lands of the bankrupt reciting encumbrances
thereon and asking that they be sold, the assets marshaled, and all
persons claiming liens be made parties, gives rise to a controversy in
bankruptcy proceedings, the decision in which may be reviewed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals under § 24a of the Bankruptcy Act
and § 128, Judicial Code.
Although such a proceeding is commenced by the trustee, the appearance of holders of mortgage liens asserting their rights and seeking
to have them enforced conformably to their contentions, is equivalent
to affirmative inteivention and brings a controversy quite apart
from ordinary steps in bankruptcy.
Homestead rights in land are creations of the States in which the lands
are situated, and the validity and operation of mortgages thereon
are determined by the statutes of the State inwhich the homestead
is situated, as construed and applied by the courts of that State.
Under the laws of Iowa, as construed by the courts of that State, a
homestead, even when validly mortgaged, may be sold only for a
deficiency remaining after exhausting all other property covered by
the same mortgage.
The right to insist on the exemption of a homestead in Iowa from
sale except for deficiency is not personal to the mortgagor, but may
be asserted by anyone to whom the homestead owners may have
transferred an interest; nor can they after such transfer prejudice the

transferee in the exercise of this right.
204 Fed. Rep. 963.

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals from judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
in a bankruptcy proceeding and the marshaling of proceeds
of sale of homestead property in Iowa, are stated in the
opinion.
THE

Mr. S. F. Prouty, with whom Mr. George F. Haid and
Mr. Newton P. Willis were on the brief, for appellants.

MOODY v. CENTURY BANK.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. W. G. Harvison, with whom Mr. Horatio F. Dale
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
The facts bearing upon the questions presented by this
appeal are these: On his voluntary petition Oscar M.
Hartzell, a resident of Madison County, Iowa, was adjudged a bankrupt. He owned 960 acres of land in that
county, 40 acres of which he and his family had been and
were occupying as a homestead. Three mortgages in
terms covering .all the land had been given by him-the
first to Emma Johnson, the second to Moody & Son, and
the third to the Century Savings Bank. His wife had
joined in the first and third; but not in the second. After
he was adjudged a bankrupti he and his wife executed an
instrument waiving and surrendering their right in the
homestead and authorizing the trustees in bankruptcy
to take possession and dispose of the same for the benefit
of all the creditors. At a later date the trustees filed in the
bankruptcy proceeding a petition asserting title to all the
land, reciting the existence of the mortgages and other
asserted liens, and praying that the 960 acres be sold free
of all liens, that the proceeds be held by the trustees subject to the further order of the court, that all persons asserting liens on any part of the land be required to set
them up byanswer, that certain of the asserted liens be
declared void and that as to the others the assets be marshaled. Acting upon this petition the court, with the
assent of the parties in interest, directed that the land be
sold as prayed, that all liens thereon be transferred to the
proceeds and that the latter be held by the trustees for
the payment of whatever liens or claims might be established against the same. The lands were sold, all liens
found to be superior to the three mortgages were paid out
of the proceeds and there remained a balance of $54,264.77,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

which, although $13,683.94 in excess of what was required
to pay the first mortgage, was insufficient to pay it and
either of the others. Of this balance, $8,000 arose from
the sale of the homestead. Moody & Son and the Century Savipgs Bank, both appearing in response to notice of
the trustees' petition, asserted conflicting rights under
their respective mortgages to a part of the proceeds. Although conceding that the first mortgage-that to Johnson-should be fully paid, they differed widely respecting
the disposition of the proceeds of the homestead, Moody
& Son asserting a right to have the same applied on the
first mortgage and to receive on their mortgage whatever
remained of the proceeds of the other land, and the bank
asserting a right to have the first mortgage satisfied from
theproceeds of the other land and to receive on its mortgage -the proceeds of the homestead. Under the first
contention Moody & Son would receive $13,683.94 and
the bank nothing, while under the other Moody & Son
would receive $5,683.94 and the bank $8,000. The bankruptcy court rejected both contentions and held that the
proceeds of' the homestead and those of the other land
should be proportionally applied in paying the first mortgage, that the balance then remaining from the sale of
the homestead, being $2,947.22, should -be paid on the
bank's mortgage and that the balance from the sale of the
other land, being $10,736.67, should be paid on Moody &
Son's mortgage. A decree was entered accordingly and
the bank appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which
after overruling a motion challenging its jurisdiction, sustained the bank's contention and reversed the decree with
instructions which were equivalent (see. Chesapeake &
Potomac Telephone Co. v. Manning, 186 U. S. 238, 240;
Metropolitan Water Co. v. Kaw Valley Drainage District,
223 U. S. 519, 523) to directing a decree giving -full effect
to that contention. 204 Fed. Rep. 963; 209 Fed. Rep.
775. Moody & Son then appealed to this court.

MOODY v. CENTURY BANK.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Whether the Circuit Court of Appeals rightly sustained
.its jurisdiction turns upon whether this is one of those
"controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings" over
which the circuit courts of appeals are invested, by § 24a
of the Bankruptcy Act, with the same appellate jurisdiction that they possess in other cases under the Judicial
Code, § 128, or is a mere step in bankruptcy proceedings
the appellate review of which is regulated by other provisions of the Bankruptcy Act. If it is a controversy
arising in bankruptcy proceedings the jurisdiction of that
court was properly invoked, as is also that of this court.
We entertain no doubt that it is such a controversy.
It has every attribute of a suit in equity for the marshaling
of assets, the sale of the encumbered property and the
application of the proceeds to the liens in the order and
mode ultimately fixed by the decree. True it was begun
by the trustees and not by an adverse claimant, but this
is immaterial, for the mortgagees, who claimed adversely
to the trustees, not only appeared in response to notice
of the trustees' petition, but asserted their mortgage
liens and sought to have them enforced against the proceeds of the property conformably to the contentions before stated. This was the equivalent of an affirmative intervention and, when taken in connection with the trustees'
petition, brought into the bankruptcy proceedings a controversy which was quite apart. from the ordinary steps,
in such proceedings and well within the letter and spirit
of § 24a. Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296,
300; Knapp v. Milwaukee Trust Co., 216 U. S. 545, 553;
Teft v. Munsuri, 222 U. S. 114, 118; Houghton v.. Burden,
228U. S. 161,165;Globe Bank v. Martin, 236 U. S. 288,295.
Coming to' the merits, the matter for decision is the
proper application or disposition of the proceeds of the
40 acres which the bankrupt and his family occupied as a
homestead when the mortgages were given and up to the
time of the waiver before mentioned. The homestead

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

right in this land was a creation of the statutes of the
State, and therefore to determine what bearing this right
had upon the validity and operation of the mortgages
we must turn to those statutes and the decisions of the
Supreme Court of the State construing and applying
them. The statutes are found in the Code of 1897, and
are as follows:
"Sec. 2972. The homestead of every family, whether
owned by the husband or wife, is exempt from judicial
sale, where there is no special declaration of statute to the
contrary.
"Sec. 2974. No conveyance or incumbrance of or contract to convey or incumber the homestead, if the owner
is married, is valid, unless the husband and wife join in
the execution of the same joint instrument, whether the
homestead is exclusively the subject of the contract or
not, but such contracts may be enforced as to real estate
other than the homestead at the option of the purchaser
or incumbrancer.
"Sec. 2976. The homestead may be sold on execution
for debts contracted prior to its acquisition, but in such
case it shall not be sold except to supply any deficiency
remaining after exhausting the other property of the
debtor liable to execution. It may also be sold for debts
created by written contract, executed by the persons
having the power to convey, and expressly stipulating
that it is liable therefor, but then only for a deficiency remaining after exhausting all other property
pledged by the same contract for the payment of the debt.
"Sec. 2981. The owner may, from time to time, change
the limits of the homestead by changing the metes and
bounds, as well as the record of the plat and description,
or vacate it, but such changes shall not prejudice conveyances or liens made or created previously thereto, and no
such change of the entire homestead, made without the
concurrence of the husband or wife, shall affect his or her

MOODY v. CENTURY BANK.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rights, or those of the children.

The new homestead,
to the extent in value of the old, is exempt from execution in all cases where the old or former one would have
been."
Counsel are agreed that under these statutes the mortgages to Johnson and the bank, in which the wife joined,
became Valid liens on the homestead as well as on the other
land; that the intervening mortgage to Moody & Son, in
which the wife did not join, was void as to the. homestead
and became a valid lien only on the other land; that this
mortgage remained void as to the homestead notwithstanding the subsequent waiver of the homestead right,
and that its invalidity in that respect could be asserted
by the bank as a subsequent mortgagee. We therefore
come to the provision in § 2976 that the homestead, even
where validly mortgaged, may be sold "only for a deficiency remaining after exhausting all other property"
covered by the same mortgage. Whether only the mortgagors may claim the benefit of this provision, and they
only while they retain the homestead, is the real point in
dispute. Moody & Son insist that it merely confers on the
mortgagors a personal privilege which they may exercise
or waive as they choose, that in this instance the privilege
was surrendered or terminated when the homestead right
was waived and that in consequence the provision has no
bearing on the proper application or disposition of the
proceeds of either the homestead or the other land. The
bank, on the other hand, insists that the right to have
this provision followed is not.strictly personal to the mortgagors but may be asserted by one to whom they transfer
an interest in the homestead, such as a subsequent
vendee or mortgagee, and that no act of theirs done after
the transfer can prejudice the transferee in the exercise
of this right. The solution of the question is not free from
difficulty, but we are persuaded, as was the Circuit Court
of Appeals, that in view of the decision of the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

Court of the State in Linscott v. Lamart, 46 Iowa, 312, the
bank's contention must be sustained.
The facts in that case, so far as now material, were
these: One Ash owned 71 acres of land, 40 of which were
his homestead. He and his wife mortgaged the entire
tract to Lamart. Linscott subsequently obtained a
judgment against Ash and purchased one-half of the
tract at a sale under the judgment. Later Ash and his
wife sold and conveyed the entire tract to Lamart, it
being understood that this should not extinguish the
mortgage. Lamart went into possession and Linscott
brought a suit to determine the rights of the parties in
the land. Lamart prevailed and the Supreme Court
affirmed the decree, saying: "Ash and his wife had the
right to sell and convey the homestead to Lamart, and he
has the right to hold it exempt from judicial sale on plaintiff's judgment." And, after holding the sale under the
judgment void because it included part. of the homestead, the court further said: "What then are the rights
of the parties? If Ash had not conveyed to Lamart, upon
foreclosure of the mortgage, the homestead could only
'be sold to supply the deficiency remaining after exhausting
the other property' included in the mortgage. Lamart
paid Ash some $1,400 for the whole tract, being more
than twice the amount of the mortgage. No fraud is
charged or shown, and as he had the right to purchase
the homestead and hold it as against plaintiff's judgment,
he should now have the right to have the proceeds of
the land, aside from the homestead, applied in payment of
his mortgage, to the exclusion of junior liens. In other
words, it would be inequitable to put him in a worse position than he would be if he had not taken the title from
Ash. The plaintiff, by this rule, is left in precisely the
same position he would now occupy if Ash were still
holding his homestead, and Lamart his mortgage." Thus,
under the influence of the provision in § 2976, it was ruled

MOODY v. CENTURY BANK.
239 U. S.

381

Opinion of the Court.

that the mortgage, which embraced the homestead and
other land, could be satisfied out of the latter to the exclusion of a junior judgment lien embracing the other.
land but not the homestead, and this although the mortgagors had sold the homestead and no longer had any
riglt therein. This decision is more nearly in point than
any other and we think it shows that the right to invoke

the provision in § 2976 is neither strictly personal to the
mortgagors nor wholly terminated by their waiver of the
homestead right. Moody & Son place some reliance upon
Barker v. Rollins, 30 Iowa, 412, and Dilger v. Palmer, 60
Id. 117, although conceding that the cases are not closely
in point.

We think they are without present bearing.

In the former a purchaser of a mortgaged homestead,
who thereafter made the land his homestead, claimed that

this entitled him to have the mortgage satisfied from other
unmortgaged property of the mortgagor, and the claim
was denied, the court observing, 30 Iowa, p. 413: "His
homestead was not within the contemplation of the parties
to the contract sued on. The creditor might well be held
to have contracted with reference to all the phases of
homestead claimed by his debtor; but not as to any suchclaim by third parties, who should voluntarily purchase
the property with full knowledge of the incumbrance

upon it. They cannot intrude their rights upon the
property to the prejudice of the creditor." In the other
case a homestead was mortgaged with other land and the
mortgagors thereafter sold the latter to a third person
but retained the former. When it was sought to foreclose
the mortgage, the mortgagors claimed that § 2976 entitled them to have the mortgage satisfied from the nonhomestead property, which they had sold, and the claim
was rejected, the court holding that by their sale of the
non-homestead land they were estopped from. insisting
that it constituted the primary, fund for the payment of
the mortgage.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

Concluding; as We do, that the Circuit Court of Appeals
rightly applied the local statutes as construed by the
Supreme Court of the State, its decree is
Affirmed.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILWAY
CONCANNON.

COMPANY v.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 87.

Argued December 3, 1915.-Decided December 20, 1915.

The Act of April 28, 1904, c. 1782, 33 Stat. 538, validating conveyances
of land within the lines of the right of way of the Northern Pacific
Railway related only to conveyances theretofore made, and did not
confer on the Railway Company power in the future to dispose of
the right of way nor on others the power to obtain possession of any
part thereof by adverse possession. Northern Pacific Rwy. v. Ely,
197 U. S. 1, distinguished.
While title by adverse possession might have been obtained to portions
of the right of way of the Northern Pacific Railway under the Act of
April 28, 1904, if the adverse possession had ripened into title prior
to the passage of the act, title cannot be obtained thereunder if any
part of the period of adverse possession is subsequent thereto.
While a remedial statute should be construed so as to embrace remedies
which it was intended to afford, its words should not be so extended
as to destroy express limitations and cause it to accomplish purposes
which its text shows it was not intended to reach.
In this case the judgment of the state court cannot be sustained as
resting on a ground independent of the construction of the Federal
statute involved.
While an issue remaining open on the remanding of the case may be
one arising under state law which should primarily be disposed of by
the state court, this court has the ultimate authority to review the
decision on such question to the extent essential to the enforcement
of Federal rights involved.
75 Washington 591, reversed.

