VILLANUEVA v. VILLANUEVA.
Counsel for Parties.

239 U. S.

DE VILLANUEVA v. VILLANUEVA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 65. Argued November 9, 1915.-Decided December 6, 1915.
The court has jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the Philippine Islands in an action for divorce, where the
affidavits supporting the appeal show, without contradiction, that
the value of the community property involved is of the jurisdictional
amount. De la Rama v. De la Rama, 201 U. S. 303.
Even where this court may review findings of fact, as in appeals from
the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands in cases involving the
statutory amount in controversy, it will not reverse findings when
made by both courts below in the absence of conviction of clear error.
In appeals. from the territorial courts this court follows and sustains
the application of the local law to the facts as made by the courts
below, unless constrained to the contrary by a sense of clear error

committed.
A judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, affirming
the court of first instance in rejecting, complainant's demand for

divorce, affirmed by this court in -the absence of conviction of clear
error of the courts below either in the findings of fact or the application of the local law to the facts as found.

THE facts which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals from the Supreme Court of the Philippine

Islands and the validity of a judgment of that court
rejecting the demand of a wife for divorce from her husband, are stated in the opinion.
Mrc C. W. O'Brienfor appellalit.
Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury, with whom Mr. Frederic
R. Coudert was on the brief, for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The decree which the appellant seeks to reverse affirmed
one rendered by the court of first instance rejecting her
demand for a divorce from her husband and for a liquidation and partition of the property belonging to the legal
community which existed between them. At the outset
we say that we think there is no foundation for the suggestion that we are without jurisdiction because of the
inadequacy of the amount involved, since the complaint
by which the suit was begun alleged the existence of such
an amount of community property as to give jurisdiction,
and because the affidavit filed for the purpose of the appeal also so establishes, there being no countervailing
affidavit and nothing in the record to demonstrate to
the contrary. De la Rama v. De la Rama, 201 U. S.
303.
The complaint for divorce and liquidation of the community as it was finally amended, which was filed in 1910,
alleged the marriage of the parties in 1867 and the birth
of ten children, nine of whom were alive and of age and
one of whom was dead leaving surviving issue. As a basis
for the divorce prayed various acts of adultery by the
defendant were charged extending over a period of forty-.
two years, that is, from 1868, shortly after the marriage,
until the bringing of the suit in 1910. The acts thus
charged embraced six periods: the first, from 1868 until
the filing of the suit with a named person, from which
relation it was alleged there had been begotten five
children, four of whom were alive and bore their father's
surname; the second, with another named person during
1889 and 1890, from which relation there, was begotten
a daughter who likewise bore her father's surname; the
third, with a named person during the year 1891; the
fourth, with a named person from 1892 until the time the

VILLANUEVA v. VILLANUEVA.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

suit was commenced, from which relation it was alleged
children also were begotten; the fifth, with a named person during the years 1901 and 1902; and the sixth, with
a named person during the years 1903 and 1904. The
answer set up a general denial, a special defense that if
the acts of adultery alleged were found to have been
committed, they were done with the knowledge of the
complainant who had condoned them, and moreover
that the action was prescribed.
After full hearing the court of first instance found that
the defendant had been guilty of adultery with the person
named in the complaint in the first period during the
years from 1868 until 1.900, but that there was no proof
of any such adultery having been committed by him with
the person named for the ten years preceding the suit,
that is, from 1900 to 1910. The court also found that it
was established that the defendant had adulterous relations with the person named during the second period,
that is, from 1889 to 1890, and that from such relations,
as alleged, a daughter named Maria was begotten, but
that the relations had ceased years before the bringing
of the suit since the woman named had died long before
at a period fixed approximately as the time of the beginning of the American occupation of the islands. The
court also found that it had been proved that acts of
adultery had been committed with the person named
during the fourth period, that is, in 1892 and some time
thereafter, but it also affirmatively found that all relations between the defendant and the person named in
this period had ceased prior to 1900. It was moreover
expressly found that there was no proof whatever offered
concerning any of the other acts of adultery charged in
the complaint.
Concerning the first period the court found that the
proof left no doubt that the complainant at an early date
became aware of the adulterous relations to which that

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

period related and although she did so, continued her
marital relations with her husband and had condoned his
infidelity. Indeed, it was found that forgiveness by the
wife was clearly established from the fact that during the
ten years which had elapsed before the bringing of the
suit and after the illicit relations had ceased, the children
begotten of such relation were brought into the household
with the consent of the wife and lived as part of the common-family. Applying the law to this condition it was
held that the condonement or forgiveness was a complete
bar to the suit based upon the acts which had been thus
forgiven. So far as concerned the acts of infidelity committed during the second and fourth periods as stated,
although it was found that there was no direct proof that
the complainant knew of such wrongs when committed,
nevertheless it was held that there was no ground for
awarding relief because of such acts irrespective of the
question of forgiveness or condonement resulting from
the long continuance of the marital relations after such
acts had been committed, for the reason that the complainant had expressly declared in testifying that she
solely asked relief because of the acts embraced in the
first period and none other-a situation which, it was
held, brought the case directly within the control of Laws
1 and 2, title 9, Partida 4, expressly confining the right
to. complain of adultery by one of the parties to a marriage
to the injured party. And this conclusion was sustained
by pointing out that although the complaint for divorce
had been sworn to by the complainant, she had in her
testimony admitted that she knew nothing of the particular acts embraced in the periods in question and intended only to sue for those described in the first period,
thus as to such other acts giving rise to the implication
that their averment was the result of the instigation of
some person not authorized to act, probably impelled
by some interest direct or indirect in the liquidation of

VILLANUEVA v. VILLANUEVA.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the community property which would follow if the prayer
of the complainant had been granted.
In a careful opinion the court below, reviewing the
action of the court of first instance, adopted and reaffirmed
in every substantial particular the facts found by that
court and also agreed with the legal conclusions which the
court had applied to the facts by it found. In applying
the law to the facts it was pointed out that the controlling
law was to be found not in the civil code, but in the
Partidas, and it was held that as by provisions of the
Partidas which were cited it was expressly provided that
condonement or forgiveness of acts of adultery excluded
the subsequent right to relief based upon the fact that they
had been committed, it followed from the conclusive proof
of forgiveness resulting from the facts found that no error
had been committed in rejecting the demand for a divorce.
In stating the reasons which led it to this conclusion the
mind of the court was principally directed to the acts of
infidelity found to have been committed during the first
period and the acts by which forgiveness as to them had
been indubitably established. But the court, considering
the facts found as to the other two periods, without deciding that such acts of infidelity had not been condoned,
expressly held that the necessary result of the provisions
of the Partidas which had been applied by the lower court
exclusively confining the right to relief for acts of infidelity
to the injured spouse, plainly justified the court of first
instance in its ruling that the disclaimer of all right to
relief as to any acts but those which the complaint alleged
were committed during the first period excluded all right
to recover for any but those acts to which the controversy
thus became confined.
The first two of the nine assignments of error question
the finding and ruling of the court concerning the acts
committed during the first period and their condonement
or forgiveness. The third and fourth assail the correct-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

ness of the conclusion concerning the second and fourth
periods and the ruling of the court relating to them based
on the disclaimer made by the complainant in her testimony of any right to relief on account of them; and as
cognate to this subject, the fifth complains of the action
of the court in analyzing the motives which prompted
the inclusion in the suit of causes upon which the complainant asserted she did not rely for relief for the purpose
of bringing the case within the rule laid down in Laws 1
and 2, title 9, Partida 4, which both courts applied. The
remainder in general terms but assert error committed
in the findings ,and in the law which was applied to them
in deciding the cause.
Although the arguments pressed at bar to sustain these
assignments apparently enlarge them, in substance they
add nothing to them but simply reiterate in changed and
more minute forms of statement the grounds of error
asserted in the assignments. Under these conditions it is
apparent that all the errors relied upon, whether embraced
in the assignments or pressed in the argument, considered
in their essence only dispute the correctness of the facts
found by both the courts below and but challenge the
accuracy of the principles of the local law which were
applied to the facts for the purpose of deciding the cause.
Under these circumstances, without noticing more in detail either the assignments or the arguments supporting
them, we content ourselves with saying that we are of the
opinion after examining and weighing them all, that they
are without merit for the following reasons: (a) Because
in so far as they dispute the concurrent findings of fact
of both the courts below they entirely fail to give rise to
that conviction of clear error which must be entertained
in order to authorize a reversal of the findings, Texas &
Pacific Ry. v. Louisiana R. R. Commission, 232 U. S. 338;
Gilson v. United States, 234 U. S. 380, 383-384; and (b)
Because in so far as they challenge the correctness of the

MACKENZIE v. HARE.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

application which the courts made of the local law to the
facts in deciding the cause, they are totally deficient in
that persuasive strength which it is essential they should
possess in order to produce the conviction that clear error
was committed by the court below, and thus lead us to depart from the principle by which we follow and sustain the
local law as applied by the court below unless we are constrained to the contrary by a sense of clear error committed. Ker v. Couden, 223 U. S. 268, 279; Santa Fe Ry. v.
Friday,232 U. S. 694, 700; Nadal v. May, 233 U. S. 447.
Affirmed.

MACKENZIE v. HARE ET AL., BOARD OF
ELECTION OF SAN FRANCISCO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 79. Argued November 11, 12, 1915.-Decided December 6, 1915.
In construing a statute, whatever was said or given prominence in
debate gives way to its actual language as passed; all reasons that
induced its enactment and all of its purposes must be supposed to
be satisfied and expressed by its words as finally enacted.
Under the Constitution every person born in the United States is a
citizen thereof.
The provisions in ยง 3 of the Citizenship Act of March 2, 1907, that any
American woman who marries a foreigner takes the nationality of
her husband, is not limited as to place or effect prior to the termination of the marital relation.
Where an act of Congress is explicit and circumstantial, as is ยง 3 of the
Citizenship Act of 1907, it would transcend judicial power to insert
limitations or conditions upon disputable considerations.
Whatever may have been the law of England and the original law of
this country as to perpetual allegiance of persons to the land of
their birth, Congress by the act of 1868, now Rev. Stat. 1999,
explicitly declared the right of expatriation to have been the law.
The identity of hasband and wife is an ancient principle of our jurisdiction, and is still retained notwithstanding much relaxation thereof;

