SUl v. McCOY.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

of the wrong complained of. But the duty t6 resort to
the adequate remedies provided could not be escaped by
assuming that if they had been resorted to the wrong
complained of would not have been rectified.
As it follows that under any possible view of the case
the judgment below rested upon propositions of state law
adequate to sustain it wholly irrespective of the Federal
right relied upon, it results that we have no power to
review and the writ of error must be dismissed for want

of jurisdiction.
And it is so ordered.

SUI v. McCOY, INSULAR COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 54.

Submitted November 1, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.

The Immigration and Chinese Exclusion Laws of the United States
have been carried by act of Congress to the Philippine Islands and
authorized to be there put into effect under appropriate legislation
by the Insular Government which has so done and in express terms
conferred general supervisory authority upon the Insular Collector
of Customs.
There is no conflict between the provisions of the act of Congress
carrying the Immigration and Chinese Exclusion Acts to the Philippines and the action of the Collector in referring questions relating
to the right of a Chinese person to land and to a board in which the
power was lodged to act under his supervision in matters concerning
immigration.
In this case, held that an order for deportation of a person of Chinese
descent from the Philippine Islands under the Chinese Exclusion
Act .as not improperly entered either because of abuse of power by
the Insular Collector in referring the matter to the board of inquiry

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

established under the Immigration Act nor does the.record show
that such person was denied due process of law by the disregard of
testimony produced on his behalf.
21 Phil. IsId. 361, affirmed.

facts, which involve the validity of an order of
deportation of a Chinese person from Manila and the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
sustaining the same, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Clement L. BouvW for appellant.
Mr. S. T. Ansell for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JusTICE WHIT delivered the opinion of the
court.
Chieng Ah Soon, a Chinese merchant residing in Manila,
proposing to go to China, took a certificate which was
susceptible of being used to identify him for the purpose
of reentry in case of his return. About a year afterward,
July 19, 1910, Ah Soon returned accompanied by two
persons asserted to be his minor sons, one Ah Luy, said
to be twenty, and the other, Ah Sui, to be sixteen years of
age. His right to land was at once conceded, but the right
of the two others being questioned, the Insular Collector
referred the matter for inquiry and report to a board
which was charged with the duty of considering such
question. At once this board heard the testimony offered
to prove the right to admission and concluded that Ah
Luy had established such right, but that Ah Sui had not.
An appeal was prosecuted to the Collector, but before
the matter was decided by him on the merits a rehearing
was granted presumably by the board and it again heard
the matter on July 23, 1910. At the rehearing additional
testimony was offered by Ah Sui, but after reexamination
of the matter and considering such testimony, the board
adhered to its former conclusion. An appeal was taken

SUI v. McCOY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the Collector and once more before it was decided a
second rehearing was allowed and on August 10, 1910,
after hearing additional testimony, the original order was
again re-affirmed. This last decision was on September 3,
1910, affirmed on appeal by the Insular Collector and on
September 15 an application for rehearing was refused
and Ah Sui remained, therefore, in the custody of the
Collector for deportation.
At once he applied for habeas corpus to the Court of
First Instance of the City of Manila asserting the illegality
of his detention for deportation and his right to land as
a minor son of Ah Soon, on the following grounds: (a) An
entire want of power in the Insular Collector to have
referred the right to land to the board of inquiry and
the resulting absolutely void character of the proceedings, whether appellate or otherwise, taken thereunder;
(b) Even upon the assumption of existence of power, the
absolutely void character of the action of the board and
the Collector because of the entire disregard by both of
the testimony establishing the paternity of Ah Soon and
the resulting right of Ah Sui to land. Although ruling
against the assertion of want of power, the trial court yet
granted the writ of habeas corpus and directed the release
of the applicant on the ground of a gross abuse of discretion by the board and the Collector in refusing to give
effect to the testimony showing the right to enter, although there was nothing in the proof tending to the
contrary. On appeal, the court below, after reviewing the
testimony, held that there was no ground to support the
conclusion reached by the trial court of arbitrary action
and abuse of discretion by the board and the Collector in
passing upon the right to land and therefore reversed the
order releasing Ah Sui, thus leaving him in custody subject to deportation. 22 Phil. Isld. Rep. 361.
Our jurisdiction is invoked, first, upon the theory that
the construction of statutes of the United States is neces-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

sarily involved in the assertion of the want of all authority
of the Insular Collector of Customs to have appointed the
board which primarily determined the right to admission,
and second, an assumed violation of the due process of
law secured in the Philippine Islands by act of Congress
arising from the action taken below because of its asserted arbitrary character caused by the alleged absolute
disregard of the testimony establishing the right to enter
and the absence of any testimony to the contrary. We
come to dispose-of these contentions separately.
1. That the Immigration and Chinese Exclusion Lawsof the United States have been by act of Congress carried
to the Philippine Islands and authorized to be there put
into effect under appropriate legislation by the Insular
Government, is not disputed. That such government has
put such laws into effect and in doing so has in express
terms conferred the general supervisory authority required for that purpose to be exerted upon the Insular
Collector of Customs, is also not disputed. And that such
officer under that authority has provided for a board of
examiners primarily to determine, subject to his review,
questions arising under the Immigration and Chinese
Exclusion Laws, is also not disputed. The contention is
based upon the supposed repugnancy to the act of Congress caused by the action of the Collector in giving to
such board primary authority to examine under the
Chinese Exclusion Acts. The argument is that although
under the Immigration Acts provision is made for a board
of examiners, no such provision is found in the Chinese
Exclusion Acts, since under the latter, although an examination is provided for, it is left to be conducted under
rules and regulations adopted by the appropriate authority and in the exercise of that power in the United States
examining agents and not an examining board or boards
are provided for by the regulations. Upon this and this
alone is the conclusion rested that the making of a primary

SUI v. McCOY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

examination under the Exclusion Acts by a board was in
conflict with the United States statutes.
The extremity of the argument is well illustrated by considering the extent of the administrative power conferred
by the Insular Government upon the Collector in delegating to him the authority to enforce the Chinese Exclusion
Acts since by ยง 1 of Act No. 702 of the Philippine Commission enacted March 17, 1903, it is provided that "the
Collector of Customs for the Philippine -Archipelago is
hereby authorized and directed . . . to employ for
that purpose the personnel of the Philippine Customs
Service, the provincial and military officers hereinafter
provided, and such other persons as may be necessary."
But aside from this we are of the opinion' that the mere
statement of the supposed conflict answers itself, since
there is no room for real contention that there was a
want of power in the Collector to appoint the board instead of an agent to aid him in the discharge of the duties
devolving upon him. And we are also of the opinion that
there was no ground whatever for the contention that a
conflict arose between the act of Congress and the action
of the Collector because the board selected was one in
whom the power had been already lodged to act under the
supervision of the Collector concerning matters of immigration.
2. So far as concerns the assertion that there was a violation of the due process of law secured in the Philippine
Islands by act of Congress both because of the want of
a hearing and the disregard of the testimony we are of
the opinion that the first on the face of the record is completely answered by the statement we have made of the
abundant opportunity which was afforded for a hearing,
of the rehearings granted, and of the reiterated considerations which resulted by the board and the Collector, especially in view of the judicial consideration of the subject
of the complaint made in the proceedings which cul-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

minated in the decree which is before us for review. As
to the charge of the total disregard of all the testimony,
we might well content ourselves with referring to the
opinion of the court below, but in view of the character of
the case we say that from an examination of the record
we think such contention is devoid of all merit.
Affirmed.

NORTON, EXECUTOR, v. WHITESIDE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 55. Argued November 4, 5, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.
A mere formal statement in the bill to the effect that the cause of
action is one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
States does not suffice to give this court jurisdiction to review the

judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals under ยง 241, Jud. Codeit must appear that the suit really and substantially involves a dispute or controversy respecting the validity, construction or effect
of some law of the United States upon the determination whereof
the result depends. Hull v.. Burr, 234 U. S. 712.
Riparian rights attaching to property patented by the United States
are determined by the law of the State in which the land is situated.
Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371.
The fact that both parties owning parcels of real estate bordering on
a navigable boundary river opposite to each other acquired the
property from the United States does not change or affect the rule
that riparian rights of the parties are to be determined by the law
of the respective States in which the properties are situated.
The provisions in the various ordinances and statutes relating to the
organization of the Northwest Territory referred to in the bill in
this case do not control the riparian rights enjoyed, under the law
of the State wherein the property is situated, by parties who acquired
the land from the United States within the limits of a State carved
out of such Territory.

