OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

would inevitably result in denying the power in Congress
to prohibit importation as to every article which after
importation would be subject to any use whatever. Moreover, the proposition plainly is wanting in merit, since it
rests upon the erroneous assumption that the motive of
Congress in exerting its plenary power may be taken into
view for the purpose of refusing to give effect to such
power when exercised. Doyle v. Continental Ins. Co., 94
U. S. 535, 541; McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27,

53-59; Calder v. Michigan, 218 U. S. 591, 598.
Affirmed.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
BIGGER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 342.

Submitted November 30, 1915.-Decided December 13, 1915.

Where the case was tried to a jury and there was a verdict for plaintiff,
disputed questions of fact must be considered by the appellate court
as determined against defendant.
On appeal from a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming
a judgment of the trial court based on a verdict, this court is confined
to considering questions of law arising on the rulings of the court.
A defendant removing the case from the state court, and not reserving
any exception to the jurisdiction of the state court,, cannot after
pleading in, and submitting to the jurisdiction of, the Federal court
raise the question of the original jurisdiction of the state court.
A general contention that the trial court should have directed a verdict
for defendant involves the whole case, and facts and law may, as in
this case, be so intermingled as to make the latter dependent upon the
former.
A carrier which has accepted a passenger to a definite point does not
discharge its duty by delivering him in an unsuitable place without
protection from the inclemency of the weather.
There having been conflicting testimony whether plaintiff's intestate

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. BIGGER.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was or was not necessarily compelled through the negligence of the
defendant carrier to submit to conditions resulting in his sickness
and death, and the court having charged that if the jury believed the
defendant's testimony in that respect, plaintiff could not recover at
all, and if plaintiff's evidence was true it appears that defendant did
not exercise even ordinary care, a verdict for plaintiff should not be
set aside because of statements in the charge in regard to different
degrees of care owed by the defendant under varying circumstances
to its passengers.
218 Fed. Rep. 990.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals in an action for injuries sustained by a passenger against a carrier, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. George Thompson and Mr. T. D. Cobbs for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. H. C. Carter and Mr. Perry J. Lewis for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Action for personal injuries brought by J. T. Bigger
against plaintiff in error and the International & Great
Northern Railway Company and the St. Louis, Iron
Mountain & Southern Railway Company in the state
district court of Bexar County, Texas.
The case made by Bigger's pleading was this:
Bigger was a passenger upon the Texas & Pacific Railway Company's train on a ticket from San Antonio, Texas,
to Owensboro, Kentucky, and return, having purchased
the ticket from the International & Great Northern Railway Company, at San Antonio, Texas. A partnership
was alleged between the companies.
Bigger was returning from Owensboro to San Antonio
and was compelled 'and required to leave the train at

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

Longview during a very severe downpour of rain at a
place where there was no protection. His clothes became
thoroughly drenched with rain, and he was required to
ride in them so drenched until he reached San Antonio
at about 10 o'clock at night. As a result of such exposure
and wetting he became seriously ill.
At the time the Texas & Pacific reached the station at
Longview there was in the train a car destined to San
Antonio, on the line of the International & Great Northern
Railway, of which the employ6s of the Texas & Pacific
knew but they neglected to inform Bigger of the fact and
give him an opportunity to transfer to such car.
It was charged in his complaint that such facts constituted negligence on the part of the company and its
employ6s.
In accordance with a petition by the Texas & Pacific
Company the case was removed to the United States
district court for the western district of Texas. There
an amended petition or complaint was filed suggesting
Bigger's death and his wife and six children were made
parties plaintiff.
The St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Railway
Company filed a separate demurrer and answer.
The International & Great Northern Railway Company
and the Texas & Pacific Railway Company joined in a
general demurrer and in an answer to the merits. Subsequently both of the latter companies were given leave
to amend and availed themselves of it. The answer of
the Texas & Pacific Railway Company contained a general demurrer, a general denial of the allegations, and set
up special matters in defense. It contained no plea or
exception to the jurisdiction of the court, state or Federal.
The case was continued and set for trial upon motion
of defendants, and the Texas & Pacific Railway Company
then filed a second amended answer in which it set up
that it was incorporated under an act of Congress, had

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. BIGGER.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

its domicile in Dallas, Texas, that no part of its road was
in Bexar County, and therefore the action was improperly
brought in the latter county and the court was without
jurisdiction to try it, it being "one arising under and involving damages for personal injury." Insufficiency of
the petition in law was also alleged and that the petition
showed on its face that the company was a common carrier
without any elements of partnership existing between it
and the other defendants. The answer also contained general denials of the allegations of the petition and averred
besides that Bigger had ample opportunity to transfer
from one coach to another and that had he used ordinary
care he would have got into the proper coach either when
he first boarded the train or at some time during passage.
That the railway company complied with its duty when
it safely transported Bigger to Longview and at that
station its relation to him, so far as he was a passenger,
terminated, as he was entitled to ride to such point and
no farther.
That it stopped its train at the usual place and the
station building and shelter from rain was in close proximity to such point. That other passengers alighted and
proceeded to such station building, that there was no
reason why Bigger should not have done so and that his
exposure was due to his own negligence.
That his ill health and subsequent death were not
caused by nor were they the result of any negligence of
the company but that he was in an extremely poor state
of health, having been the victim for a long time of a
tubercular infection which had so far progressed that he
had been compelled to give up his work and return to
San Antonio, with hope practically abandoned, and that
his death was the proximate and direct result of such infection.
Upon the issues thus joined the case was tried to a jury.
The court directed a verdict for all of the companies

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

except the Texas & Pacific, against which company a verdict was returned in the aggregate amount of $15,250.00,
the amounts awarded to the wife and children being respectively specified. Judgment was entered accordingly
and affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
A motion is made to dismiss or, alternatively, to affirm.
The motion to dismiss is overruled. The railway company is a Federal corporation and the questions raised
are not frivolous.' We pass, therefore, to the merits.
The questions of fact must be considered as determined
against the company by the verdict of the jury, that is,
that Bigger was required to get off the train at Longview
in a drenching rain, that the Accommodations there were
insufficient for the protection of passengers, that he could
have been transferred to a coach attached to the train
but was not, nor was he told of it, and that the exposure
resulted in his death. And, further, the verdict is conclusive as to the condition of his health and as to the expectancy from his life.
Our consideration, therefore, must be confined to the
questions of law arising on giving or refusing instructions,
or on some other ruling of the court. There is such other
ruling. The company in its second amended answer in
the district court excepted to plaintiff's petition on the
ground that it showed on its face that the suit was improperly brought in Bexar County. The exception was
overruled and this is assigned as error. It was not error.
The petition for removal contained no reservation of a
question of the jurisdiction of the state court and after the
case reached the district court there were pleadings to the
This case was pending in this court before and at the time of the
passage of the act of January 28, 1915, 38 Stat. 804, c. 22, §§ 5 and 6,
which takes away from courts of the United States jurisdiction in suits
by or against any railroad company on the ground that such company
was incorporated under an act of Congress. The act excepts actions
or suits pending at the time of the passage of the act.

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. BIGGER.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

merits and other action submitting to the jurisdiction.
Tex. & Pac. Ry v. Hill, 237 U. S. 208.
There is the general contention that a verdict should
have been directed for the company. The contention involves the whole case, and facts and law are so intermingled as to make the latter inseparably dependent upon
the former. For instance, it is urged that Bigger did not
exercise care when he boarded the train at Little Rock.
He could have known, it is said, that there was an International & Great Northern coach attached to the train
and that he should have heard the announcement to
passengers to transfer to that coach; and "should at some
time during the route have looked and listened." The
announcement is disputed, and whether he should have
known of the International & Great Northern coach, was
for the jury to decide.
There is testimony to the effect that Bigger was required
to get out at Longview during a rain of such severity as to
amount to a cloudburst and which had covered the ground
with water. Against this, it is said that where he descended from the train was a suitable place to walk and
that there were sheds and depots and other buildings near
at hand to protect him from the rain. And it is urged
that he should not have continued his journey in wet
clothes; that he could have changed clothes at a hotel in
Longview or sought the accommodations of a Pullman
sleeper. Finally it is said that the Texas & Pacific owed
him no further duty when he left its train. The latter
contention can be immediately rejected. The company
accepted him as a passenger for a destination beyond
Longview and its duty was not discharged by delivering
him to a storm, protected from its inclemency only by .the
shelter afforded by a "switch shanty," so-called by an
employ6 of the road. We may remark that to that shanty
a lady passenger was also conducted by the porter of the
train, he apparently not having knowledge of the existence

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

of other buildings which the company alleged were available -to Bigger. The lady testified that the water was
"three inches deep on the ground" and came to her ankles
and that "it was raining just like a cloud-burst." Nor
was it a condition suddenly occurring. It rained before
the train reached Longview, "and the tracks looked,"
the witness said, "like they were covered with water."
And, we may say, as indicating the severity of the storm,
the train was compelled to return to Longview on account
of washouts. Such conditions of discomfort and peril to
health she, Bigger, and, it appears, two other passengers,
were required to pass to and endure in order to take a car
which was attached to the train and which could have
been reached by merely passing through other cars. And
these were the conditions a jury had the right to believe
existed, although there was contradiction of them. The
other contentions involved considerations for the judgment of the jury.
There is an objection to the charge of the court that it
gave too much emphasis to the duty of the company and
not enough to the duty of Bigger as a passenger. The objection involves the charge as a whole, and, as it would
be inconvenient to quote it, we simply say that the objection is not justified. The court expressed the elements of
liability of the company, and it expressed as well the conditions of recovery on the part of plaintiffs, and it is
hypercritical to say that the emphasis was more on one
than on the other, as presently will be shown.
The most important contention of the company is based
on the charge of the court as to the degree of care required
of the company. The court said that if Bigger's "ilness
and subsequent death did not result directly from the
negligence of the defendant, they [plaintiffs] would not be
entitled to recover." And, it was added, "What then is
negligence? It is the failure to do what a reasonable person would ordinarily have done under the circumstances of

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. BIGGER.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the situation, or the doing what such person, under the
existing circumstances, would not have done. The essence
of the fault may lie in omission or in commission. The
duty is dictated and measured by the exigencies of the
occasion."
The court recited the evidence and the contentions of
the parties and said that it was the duty of the company
"to provide adequate and safe accommodations for passengers where they could alight to change cars and where
they could be protected." And, further, that if this was
done the company had fulfilled its duty and no recovery
could be had against it. If it had not done so, and, "if the
employ~s of the defendant required the deceased to get
off the train in a severe rain, and his illness resulted therefrom without any fault or negligence on his part, the
plaintiffs would be entitled to recover." And it was said:
"In this connection you are further instructed that the
deceased was required to look out for his own comfort
and safety; and if he was in any respect guilty of negligence
contributing to his illness and death, then no recovery can
be had by the plaintiffs in this proceeding."
The court, at the request of the company, further instructed the jury that if Bigger at the time he entered the
car was sick with lung trouble and knew there were chances
of injury by exposure and he neglected to use ordinary
care and prudence to protect himself against any contingency which might arise during the journey, and if he
changed cars when by the use of ordinary care he could
have avoided doing so or if there was a safer way for him
to have gone, which he might have ascertained by ordinary
care, the company would not be responsible for the injury
which resulted, if any resulted. And further that "all
these facts and circumstances in connection with his
[Bigger's] condition" should be considered in determining
"whether or not he used that ordinary care and prudence
which an ordinarily prudent person would have- exercised
VOL. ccxxxix-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

under similar circumstances." To these instructions there
was no objection except to that part which extended the
duty of the company to the protection of passengers after
they had alighted from the train.
But the court instructed the jury, at the request of
plaintiffs, that the railway company "owed its passengers
the duty to exercise that high degree of care that would
be exercised by every prudent person under the same or
similar circumstances, and a failure to exercise such degree
of care would be negligence." This instruction is attacked
as error only because it imposed a high degree of care on
the company after Bigger had left the train "and was
therefore in a position to use care in taking care of himself." The ground of the objection seems to be that the
duty of the company ceased upon the arrival of its train
at Longview. To this, as we have already said, we cannot
asoent. The same care was necessary to be observed for
Bigger's protection at that place, under the circumstances
presented by the record, as was necessary to be observed
in his transportation, and the charge of the court correctly expressed it. Penn. Co. v. Roy, 102 U. S. 451;
Indianapolis &c. R. R. v. Horst, 93 U. S. 291.
But even if the railway company could plead a lesser
degree of care than that declared to be its duty in the
charge of the court, it is veiy disputable if error was committed to the prejudice of the company. Between the
plaintiffs' ground of action and the company's ground of
defense there was a clear line of distinction. The testimony of plaintiffs was to the effect that Bigger was compelled to descendi from the train in the midst of a severe
storm to the inadequate protection of a mere shanty to
await the car for San Antonio, such car being attached to
the train he was on and to which he could have gone by
simply passing through other cars had he been told that it
was part of the 'train. The company asserts that he was
told and that he disregarded the informAtion. If the latter

ATCHISON &c. RY. v. SWEARINGEN.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

was true the company was not liable, and the court so instructed the jury; If the testimony of plaintiffs was true
the company did not observe even ordinary care; and
which was the fact it was for the jury to decide, and their
judgment-in deciding could not have been embarrassed
by a consideration of degrees of negligence or care.
The other contentions of the company we think do not
require special comment. They are directed to the proposition, many times repeated, that the company owed
no duty to Bigger or else had observed it, and that Bigger
had not used care either in avoiding exposure or in preventing an injurious effect from it. They attack the
sufficiency of the evidence and assert, in effect, that its
conflicts should be resolved against plaintiffs. The propositions of law involved are those which we have considered.
Judgment affirmed.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANxTER

and

McREYNOLDS dissent, because they are of
opinion that some of the instructions complained of laid
upon the carrier a heavier duty than the law recognizes.
MR. JUSTICE

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY
COMPANY v. SWEARINGEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 74.

Argued November 11, 1915.-Decided December 13, 1915.

Under the Employers' Liability Act of 1908, a breach of the Hours of
Service Act on the part of the carrier does not operate to deprive

it of the defenses of contributory negligence and assumption of risk
unless the breach contributed to the injury.

