REESE v. PHILA. & READING RY.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

voyages, with frequent opportunities for reaching ports,
from burdensome requirements not then deemed essential to the welfare of seamen -employed thereon. Certainly, we think, the provisions in the act of 1872 having
direct reference to wages (including those in ยง 4536, Rev.
Stat.), because of their intimate connection with the navigation of vessels, must be considered as applicable thereto
and therefore included within the scope of the amendment of 1874. Subsequent legislation clearly indicates
that Congress entertained this view. It would be difficult
to account for the acts of 1886, 1890, 1895, and 1897,
supra, upon any other theory.
The particular point now presented was reserved in
Wilder v. Inter-Island Navigation Co., 211 U. S. 239, 245.
It has become of less importance since the act of March 4,
1915, c. 153, 38 Stat. 1164, 1169, wherein the provisions
of ยง 61 of the act of 1872 were rednacted.
The judgment of the court below -is
Affirmed.

REESE, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. PHILADELPHIA
AND READING RAILWAY COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.

No. 608. Argued December 1, 1915.-Decided December 20, 1915.
A railroad is not to be held as guaranteeing or warranting absolute
safety to its employ6s under all circumstances, but is bound to exercise the care which the exigency reasonably demands in furnishing
proper roadbed, tracks, and other structures.
Failure to exercise such care constitutes negligence; but the mere
existence of a great number of tracks close to each other in a ter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

minal where public streets are necessarily utilized is not enough to
support an inference of negligence.
In this case, brought under the Employers' Liability Act, the trial
court did not err in entering a non-suit for lack of evidence showing
failure of the carrier to provide a safe place for the employd to work
although the latter was killed by striking an obstruction while
leaning out frbm the engine which he was on.
225 Fed. Rep. 518, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment of
non-suit in a suit for death of a railroad employ6 under
the Employers' Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George Demming for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William Clarke Mason, with whom Mr. Charles
Heebner was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
Relying upon the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
plaintiff in error brought suit against the railway company
in the District Court to recover damages for her husband's
death, alleged to have resulted from the negligent and
improper construction and maintenance of its tracks in
too close proximity to each other.
At the conclusion of plaintiff's testimony, th.e trial
court, finding "no evidence of negligence or -neglect to
provide him [the employ6] with a safe place to work as
to the act he was performing at that time," entered a
non-suit and afterwards refused to take it off. This was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals (225 Fed. Rep.
518) upon the ground that the railroad "did not-fail in
its duty to provide the deceased with a reasonably safe
place to work;" and the sole question for our consideration is whether any other conclusion could be legitimately
drawn from the facts disclosed.

REESE v. PHILA. & READING RY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

For use in shifting freight cars and making up trains,
the defendant maintains, as a part of its Noble Street
Yard, two parallel tracks running north and south along
Front Street, Philadelphia, from which other tracks,
curves and turnouts lead into different freight sheds,
warehouses, etc. These were located and are maintained
under an ordinance of the city according to plans duly
approved by its officials. At and near the place of the
accident the street is almost entirely occupied by them.
The distance between such north and south tracks is
much less than the general standard adopted by the company, and box cars moving thereon have barely enough
room to pass. These conditions are obvious and have
existed for fifteen years or more.
Deceased was a capable, experienced fireman in a night
switching crew operating in the yard, which was properly
lighted, and acquainted with the general conditions
described. The cause was tried upon the theory that
about midnight, November 18, 1912, while his engine
was moving five miles per hour along one of the parallel
tracks, he attempted to procure drinking water at a tap
in the side, near the bottom, and three feet from the front
of the tender; that in doing so his body was extended
outside the line of both tender and engine and crushed
by contact with a freight car standing on the other parallel track; and that the railway negligently constructed
and maintained these tracks too near each other.
The rule is well settled that a railroad company is not
to be held as guaranteeing or warranting absolute safety
to its employ~s under all circumstances, but is bound to
exercise the care which the exigency reasonably demands
in furnishing proper roadbed, tracks, and other structures.
A failure to exercise such care constitutes negligence.
Union Pacific Ry. v. O'Brien, 161 U. S. 451, 457; Choctaw,
Okla. &c. R. R. v. McDade, 191 U. S. 64, 67; Myers v.
Pittsburgh Coal Co., 233 U. S. 184, 191. A railroad yard
VOL. ccxxxix-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

where trains are made up necessarily has a great number
'of tracks and switches close to one another (Randall v.
Balti. & Ohio R. R., 109 U. S. 478, 482); and certainly
the mere existence of such conditions is not enough to
support an inference of negligence where, as here, it is
necessary to utilize a public street. Both the District
Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals felt constrained
to hold the evidence insufficient to carry the .question of
negligence to the jury, and, having examined the record,
we are unable to say that they reached a wrong result.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY are
of the opinion that upon the question of the defendant's
negligence,-the only question upon which the court
below ruled-there was sufficient evidence to go to the
jury, and therefore dissent.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. HAMBURGAMERIKANISCHE
PACKETFAHRT-ACTIEN
GESELLSCHAFT.
HAMBURG-AMERIKANISCHE PACKETFAHRTACTIEN GESELLSCHAFT, APPELLANTS, v.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 289, 332. Argued November 3, 4, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.

This court cannot pass upon questions which have, as an inevitable
legal consequence of the European War now flagrant, become moot.
This court takes judicial notice of the European War and that its'in-

