EX PARTE UPPERCU.
239 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

217 U.. S. 79; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. v.
McGuire, 219 U. S. 549; Quong Wing v. Kirkendall', 223
U. S. 59; Schmidinger v. Chicago, 226 U. S. 5t8; Booth

v. Indiana, 237 U. S. 391.
Judgment affirmed.

EX PARTE UPPERCU, PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR MANDAMUS.

No. 14, Original. Argued December 6, 1915.-Decided December 20, 1915.
The right of a litigant to have material evidence from an existing object
does not depend upon having an interest in it, or upon the right or
want of right of the public to examine that object.
Although it may be perfectly proper for a judge to order evidence and
documents in a litigation to be sealed, his order should be modified
so as to admit any of the sealed matter to be produced as evidence
at the instance of any litigant in whose behalf it is material.
The application of a litigant to have a document, which is material
evidence in his cause, produced should not be rejected because the
court in whose custody it is had made an order in a suit to which he
was not a party that the testimony including the desired document
be sealed subject to inspection only of the parties to that action.
Where a judge of a Federal court refuses to allow documents which are
included in evidence in a case in that court which has been ordered to
be sealed to be produced for evidence, mandamus from this court is
the proper remedy to require him to make an order for the production of such document.
THE facts, which involve the right of an interested party

to have documents in the custody of the court produced

as evidence, notwithitanding a previous* order placing
them under seal, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alvin Cushing Cass for petitioner.
Mr. Frank W.

Knowlton, with whom Mr. Cha',es F.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Respondent.

239 U. S.

Choate, Jr., and Mr. James Garfield were on the brief, for
respondent:
Mandamus is not' the proper remedy.
A writ of mandamus will never be granted where there
is another adequate legal remedy open to the petitioner.
It cannot be used to perform the functions of an appeal
or a writ of error. Ex parte Roe, 234 U. S. 70; Ex parte
Harding,219 U. S. 363; In re Pollitz, 206 U. S. 323; Chandler v. Circuit Jfudge, 97 Michigan, 621.
In this case the petitioner had another adequate legal
remedy in the form of an appeal or a writ of error from
the denial of his motion. Sloan Filter Co. v. El Paso Reduction Co., 117 Fed. Rep. 504, distinguished.
A writ of mandamus can never be used to control the
judicial discretion of a subordinate court. Ex parte Roe
,(supra); In re Winn, 213 U. S. 458, 468. Though mandamus may be used under appropriate circumstances,
to compel a court to decide an issue, it cannot be used
to dictate how such issue shall be decided. Consequently,
it cannot compel the reviewing or vacating of a judgment,
decree or order already made, on the ground that the
issue was wrongly decided. Ex parte Morgan, 114 U. S.
174; Ex parte Schwab, 8 Otto, 240; Ex parte Loring, 4
Otto, 418; Chiera v. Circuit Judge, 97 Michigan, 638.
The act of a court suppressing or refusing to suppress a
deposition, being judicial, will not be controlled by mandamus. 26 Cyc. 205; Ex parte Elson, 25 Alabama, 72.
The making of the order ensealing the depositions in
the case of United States v. Dwight was an act within the
discretion of the court.
A writ of mandamus will never be granted unless the
petitioner has a clear and specific right to be enforced by
it. In re Key, 189 U. S. 84; Ex parte Cutting, 4 Otto, 14.
Petitioner has no absolute or clear right to examine the
depositions as he was not a party to the original suit, nor
to the agreement for ensealing them.

EX PARTE UPPERCU.
239 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

His interest in the subject-matter of the original suit
was confined to his claim against the United States for a
contingent remuneration if the suit was successful. Having received such remuneration he ceased to have any
interest whatever in the subject-matter of the original
suit.
Any right which petitioner may have had to examine
the records in question, short of an absolute right, was
suspended by the ensealing order.
Depositions differ from other public documents which
are required to be open to the inspection of all.
A deposition is no part of the record, but is a separate
statement by a person not a party to the cause. Wigmore
on Evidence, ยง 2111 (3); Myers v. Roberts, 35 Florida,
255; Rev. Stat., ยง 865; Re McLean, Fed. Cas. No. 2719.
The custody of depositions is given to the clerk, not
because they are part of the record of the case, but simply
to insure the safeguarding of the documents and to preserve their integrity until offered as evidence in the case.
Where a deposition is opened out of court contrary to
this provision, it becomes inadmissible as evidence. Beale
v. Thompson, 8 Cranch, 70.
A deposition, if suppressed or excluded, loses all evidential value. Its existence as'an instrument of evidence
is conditional upon its being admitted in evidence. Gross
v. Coffey, 111 Alabama, 468, 474; House v. Camp, 32
Alabama, 541, 549; Moore v. McCullough, 6 Missouri,
444; Weeks, Law of Depositions, ยง 365.
The public has no absolute right to inspect a deposition
which has been filed in court, whether it has been opened
or not. Depositions, within the limits of their statutory
existence, are entirely within the control of the court.
. A court has power and discretion to suppress depositions
for irregularities in the taking or return, as in Dunkle v.
Worcester, 8 Fed. Cas. No. 4162; or containing scandalous
matter, as in In re Caswell, 29 Atl. Rep. 259.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

A court. can exclude a deposition, or parts thereof,
when offered as evidence at a trial.
In addition to the possibility of its exclusion under the
ordinary rules of evidence, a deposition may be shown
to be invalid by extrinsic evidence offered at the trial.
Even after opening, a deposition may be suppressed, excluded, or temporarily withdrawn from the files.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition for a writ of mandamus to direct the
judges and clerk of the District Court for the District of
Massachusetts to allow the petitioner access to depositions
and exhibits on file in a certain case but now sealed by order
of the court. The facts alleged shortly stated are as follows. The case referred to was an action by the Government
against the Dwight Manufacturing Company for penalties
under the Immigiation Act of February 20, 1907, c. 1134.
On June 22, 1914, it was compromised by the payment
of $50,000 and the action was discontinued. In pursuance
of a previous agreeient with the Secretary of Commerce
and Labor the petitioner was paid $25,000 for services
rendered in the suit. He now is sued by one Pachinakis
for forty-five per cent. of that sum upon an allegation
of title to the amount. It is alleged that the testimony
of Pachinakis in one of the depositions will show that he
swore that he had 'no interest or right in or expectation
to those monies,' that Pachinakis was the principal violator of the law and that his present claim is an attempt to
profit by his own wrong and against public policy. The
petitioner also is sued by an employ6 of Henry C. Quinby,
the attorney in both suits, upon an assigned claim of
William H. Garland for $3,750, in respect of services of
Garland in the former action, Garland having been a
salaried Assistant United States Attorney until January,
1914, and thereafter until the end of the action special

EX PARTE UPPERCU.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

counsel for the Government, and as the petitioner believes, having been fully paid by the Government. The
petitioner expects to prove from the papers on file that
Garland's services were rendered to the Government alone
and not to him; that Garland's claim for additional compensation is against public policy, andthat it is exorbitant
as well as unjust. Quinby is Garland's lawyer and is
employed by Pachinakis upon Garland's advice by an
arrangement between the two.
When the former action was compromised, Judge
Dodge, the respondent, made an order, "both parties
consenting, that all depositions herein be Sealed by the
clerk and retained in the files of his office, subject to the
right of either party to inspect the same, and that all
exhibits be impounded with the clerk, subject to the same
right of either party to inspect them." After the first
presentation of the claim of Pachinakis; the petitioner's
counsel made a motion in the former action for leave to
inspect the above-mentioned depositions. The United.
States assented, although Garland, when referred to as
the Assistant Attorney last in charge of the matter, advised against it. The former defendant opposed the
motion and it was denied, seemingly and as was understood
by the petitioner's counsel, on the ground that the petitioner was not a party to the cause. Subsequently the
United States District Attorney made a motion that the
order be vacated or modified so as to allow the depositions
to be used, and after a denial renewed the motion with a
fuller statement of grounds, suggesting a misapprehension
at the former hearing. This motion also was denied and
exceptions were taken that have not yet been heard by
the Circuit Court of Appeals.
It appears from what we have said that there are documents -present within the jurisdiction that furnish evidence material to the petitioner's case. The general
principle is that he has a right to have them produced.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

It does not matter whether they have been used in the
original cause or not, or to whom they belong. The right
to evidence to be obtained from an existing object does
not depend upon having an interest in it, or, in a case
like this, upon having an interest in the original cause,
or upon the object being admissible or inadmissible in
the cause for which it was prepared, or upon the right
or want of right of the public to examine the thing. The
necessities of litigation and the requirements of justice
found a new right of a wholly different kind. So long
as the object physically exists, anyone needing it as evidence at a trial has a right to call for it, unless some exception is shown to the general rule. We discover none here.
Neither the parties to the original cause nor the deponents
have any privilege, and the mere unwillingness of an
unprivileged person to have the evidence used cannot be
strengthened by such a judicial fiat as this, forbidding
it, however proper and effective the sealing may have
been as against the public at large. But as the custodian
could not obey the summons of a magistrate to produce
the documents without encountering the command of his
immediate superior, the orderly course is to obtain a remission of that command from the source from which it
came-a remission which in our opinion it is the duty
of the judge to grant.
The only other question is whether there is any technical
difficulty in the way of this court ordering what in its
opinion justice requires and what otherwise the petitioner
may not be able to obtain. The previous proceedings do
not stand in his way. The rejection of his motion on
the narrow ground that it was made in the former action
and that he was not a party to it did not require to be
followed up, and that of the Government, although in his
interest by reason of his being particularly concerned in a
general act of justice. being done, does not confine him
to a proceedings in which he is not master of the cause.

BI-METALLIC CO. v. COLORADO.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

The assertion of his rights requires no particular formality.
It would have been enough if on the attention of the court
being called to the matter it had directed that the order
should not be construed as affecting those who otherwise
had a right to copies of the papers. It is enough for this
court that it has been intimated with sufficient clearness
that the order has a wider scope and is to be applied as
against him. As against the petitioner the order has no
judicial character but is simply an unauthorized exclusion
of him by virtue of de facto power. The proceeding is
not for delivery of the papers upon a claim of title but
simply to remove the unauthorized impediment and to
correct an act in excess of the jurisdiction of the lower
court. We are of opinion that the authority of this court
should be exercised in this case.
Rule absolute.

BI-METALLIC INVESTMENT COMPANY v. STATE
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION OF COLORADO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
COLORADO.
No. 116.

Argued December 7, 8, 1915.-Decided December 20, 1915.

The allowance of equitable relief is a question of state policy; and, if
the state court treated the merits of a suit in which equitable relief
is sought as legitimately before it, this court will not attempt to
determine whether it might or might not have thrown out the suit
upon the preliminary ground.
Where a rule of conduct applies to more than a few people it is impracticable that every one should have a direct voice in its adoption; nor does the Federal Constitution require all public acts to be
done in town meeting or in an assembly of the whole.
There must be a limit to individual argument in regard to matters
affecting communities if government is to go On.

