OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

a State to which the Eleventh Amendment declares "the
judicial power of the United States shall not be construed
to extend." Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516. If Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S. 123, and the cases following it support
the doctrine that Federal courts may enjoin the enforcement of criminal statutes enacted by state legislatures
whenever the enjoyment of some constitutional right
happens to be threatened with temporary interruption,
they should be overruled in that regard. The simple,
direct language of the Amendment ought to be given
effect, not refined away.
That the challenged act is invalid I think admits of
no serious doubt.

RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
STRINGHAM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
Nos. 4, 5.

Submitted October 19, 1915.-Decided November 1, 1915.

A railway company brought suit to establish its title under the Rightof-Way Act of 1875 to certain lands in fee and the trial court found
for defendant; on appeal the appellate court reversed with directions to enter judgment awarding the railway company a right of
way; on the trial court entering such a judgment the railway company again appealed contending that according to the true effect
of the Right-of-Way Act it had title in fee, but the appellate court
affirmed the judgment as entered. On writs of error taken to both
judgments, on separate writs, held that:
As the first judgment of the appellate court disposed of the case
on the merits and left nothing to the discretion of the trial court it
was final in the sense of § 237, Judicial Code, and the writ of
error was rightly taken to that judgment, but not to the second
judgment.'

RIO GRANDE RY. v. STRINGHAM.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The right of way granted by the Act of 1875 is neither a mere
easement, nor a fee simple absolute, but a limited fee made on
implied condition of reverter in the event of non-user.
The judgment awarding to the railway company a right of way
in the terms of the Right-of-Way Act used those terms with the
same meaning they have in the act and accorded to the company
all that it was entitled to.
38 Utah, 113, affirmed.
Writ of error to reviev 39 Utah, 236, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Railroad Right-of-Way Act of March 3, 1875, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Waldemar Van Cott, Mr. E. M. Allison, Jr., and
Mr. William D. Riter for plaintiff in error:
A railway company which complies with the act of
Congress of March 3, 1875, acquires a title in fee simple,
and not merely an easement or right of way. New Mexico
v. U. S. Trust Co., 172 U. S. 171; Nor. Pac. R. R. v.
Townsend, 190 U. S. 267; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R., 195 U. S. 540, 570; Oregon Short Line v.
Stalker, 95 Pac. Rep. 56; Nor. Pac. R. R. v. Myers-Parr
Co., 103 Pac. Rep. 453.
There was no appearance, nor was any brief filed for
defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This was a suit to quiet the title to a strip of land claimed
and used by the plaintiff as a railroad right of way under
the act of March 3, 1875, c. 152, 18 Stat. 482, and to
which the defendants asserted title under a patent for
a placer mining claim. At the trial the facts were specially
found and judgment for the defendants was entered upon
the findings. In reviewing that judgment the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

Court of the State, accepting the findings below, held that
the plaintiff in virtue of proceedings had in the Land Department under the Right-of-Way Act while the land was
yet public acquired a right of way two hundred feet wide
through the lands afterwards embraced in the mining
claim and that the defendants' title under the placer
patent was subject to this right of way, and thereupon
reversed the judgment and remanded the case with a
direction to "enter a judgment awarding to the plaintiff
title to a right of way over the lands in question one
hundred feet wide on each side of the center of the track."
38 Utah, 113. Acting upon this direction the trial court
vacated its prior judgment and entered another adjudging
the plaintiff to be "the owner of a right of way" through
the mining claim one hundred feet wide on each side of
the center line of the railroad, declaring the plaintiff's
title to such right of way good and valid, and enjoining
the defendants from asserting any claim whatever to
the premises, or any part thereof, adverse to the plaintiff's
"said right of way." The plaintiff again appealed insisting that it was only adjudged to be the owner of a
right of way when according to the true effect of the
Right-of-Way Act it had a title in fee simple, as was asserted in its complaint. But the judgment was affirmed,
the court saying (39 Utah, 236):
"If counsel for appellant thought that this court, in the
prior opinion, did not correctly define and determine the
extent of appellant's rights to the land in dispute, or did
not fully safeguard its rights as defined and adjudged,
they should have filed a petition for a rehearing. This
they did not do. The coficlusions of law and judgment
having been drawn and entered in conformity with the
decision of this rourt, we axe precluded from further considering the case. The former decision became, and is
the law of the case, and this court, as well as the litigants,
are bound thereby."

RIO GRANDE RY. v. STRINGHAM.

239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Being in doubt which of the judgments of the appellate
court should be brought here for review to present properly
the question respecting the nature of its title, the plaintiff
concluded to bring up both, each by a separate writ of
error.
Manifestly the first judgment was final within the meaning of Jud. Code, § 237. It disposed of the whole case on
the merits, directed what judgment should be entered
and left nothing to the judicial discretion of the trial
court. Board of Commissioners v. Lucas, 93 U. S. 108;
Bostwick v. Brinkerhoff, 106 U. S. 3; Mower v. Fletcher,
114 U. S. 127; Chesapeake & Pot. Tel. Co. v. Manning,
186 U. S. 238. And as the question sought to be presented
arises upon the first judgment-it being final in the sense
of § 237-it is apparent that the writ of error addressed
to the second judgment presents nothing reviewable here.
See Northern Pacific R. R. v. Ellis, 144 U. S. 458; Great
West. Tel. Co. v. Burnham, 162 U. S. 339; Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. v. McCabe, 213 U. S. 207, 214.
What the act relied upon grants to a railroad company
complying with its requirements is spoken of throughout
the act as a "right of way," and by way of qualifying future disposals of lands to which such a right has attached,
the act declares that "all such lands over -which such
right of way shall pass shall be disposed of subject to such
right of way."
The right of way granted by this and similar acts is
neither a mere easement, nor a fee simple absolute, but a
limited fee, made on an implied condition of reverter in
the event that the company ceases to use or retain the
land for the purposes for which it is granted, and carries
with it the incidents and remedies usually attending the
fee. New Mexico v. United States Trust Co., 172 U. S.
171, 183; Northern Pacific Ry. v. Townsend, 190 U. S.
267, 271; United States v. Michigan, 190 U. S. 379, 398;
West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R., 195 U. S. 540,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Parties.

239 U. S.

570. The judgment under review does not in words so
characterize the plaintiff's right nor was it essential that
it should do so. It describes the right in the exact terms
of the Right-of-Way Act and evidently uses those terms
with the same meaning they have in the act. So interpreting the judgment, as plainly must be done, we think
it accords to the plaintiff all to which it is entitled under
the act.
In No. 4 Judgment affirmed.
In No. 5 Writ of error dismissed.

BRIGGS v. UNITED SHOE MACHINERY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 638.

Submitted October 12, 1915.-Decided November 1, 1915.

A suit for royalties reserved upon the sale of a patent right is not a
suit arising under the patent laws and the District Court does not
have jurisdiction on that ground.
The bill in this case does not present a case in equity within §§ 4915
or 4918, Rev. Stat.
The general powers of the Federal courts when sitting as courts of
equity can only be exerted in cases otherwise within the jurisdiction
of those courts as defined by Congress.
Only the United States can' maintain a bill for the annulment of a
patent on the ground of its procurement by fraud.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the District Court of the United States in cases arising under the

patent laws, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William A. Milliken for appellant.

