OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

156

Opinion of the Court

239 U. b.

FIREBALL GAS TANK & ILLUMINATING COMPANY v. COMMERCIAL ACETYLENE COMPANY
AND PREST-O-LITE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 13. Argued October 22, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.
A process may be independent pf the instruments employed or designed
to perform it, and the expiration of a foreign patent for the one may
not affect the United States patent for the other.
In this case held that the patent of complainants for acetylene gas
tanks is distinctly for an apparatus wiile the foreign patents which
have expired and are claimed by defendant to be identical are explicitly for methods.
There having been conflicting opinions of different Circuit Courts of
Appeal on questions of invention and infringement as well as the
effect of expiration of foreign patents held that there was no abuse
of discretion in the granting of an interlocutory injunction, but that
while there is no identity between complainants' patents and expired
foreign patents pleaded by the defendant, all other questions should
be reserved for the trial of th6 cause.

facts, which involve the propriety of issuing an
interlocutory injunction in a suit for infringement, of
patents for acetylene gas apparatus, are stated in the
opinion.
THE

Mr. John H. Bruninga for petitioners.
Mr. John P. Bartlett for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
By this writ there is brought here for review a decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals affirning an order for an

FIREBALL GAS CO. v. COMM'L ACETYLENE CO.
239 U. S.

157

Opinion of the Court.

interlocutory injunction against the infringement of certain letters patent.
The Circuit Court of Appeals considered the question
in the case to be the narrow one whether the injunction
was properly granted.
Petitioners, who were defendants in the District Court,
attack not only that conclusion but contend for the larger
relief of a dismissal of the bill.
The Acetylene Company is the owner of letters patent
No. 664,383 granted December 25, 1900, for "apparatus
for storing and distributing acetylene gas." The Prest-OLite Company is the exclusive licensee as to the use of
the invention on automobiles, carriages and other movable
vehicles. Defendants manufacture and sell what is known
as the "Fireball Gas Tank"; Soloman is the president of
the defendant.
The bill was filed August 17, 1911, and a motion for a
preliminary injunction was made. It was heard upon the
bill, exhibits, answer, replication and affidavits. The
Circuit Court granted the injunction and the order was
affirmed, as we have said, by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The court considered that the question before it was
whether the trial court had exercis-ed a sound judicial discretion in granting the injunction, and deciding that the
trial court had done so, affirmed it;, action and refused to
dismiss the bill, as it was urged t) do. Opinion was reserved upon all of the questions which the record presented except the question of the abuse by the trial
court of its discretion in the issue of the injunction, as
the court said, "until the affidavit stage of this'proceeding shall have been passed, until the rights 'of the
parties shall have been tested by the production, hearing and cross-examination of their witnesses according
to the'salutary and searching practice of the common
law, and until the court below, at the final hearing, has
investigated and decided the issues these parties raise in

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

the light of that testimony and of the argument of
,counsel."
Whether this prudence should be imitated or a broader
scope of decision be made we will determine upon a consideration of the case.
The bill is in the usual form and set forth the respective
rights in the patent of complainants, respondents here
(we shall refer to them as complainants and to petitioners
as defendants), and its infringement by defendants.
The defendants answered separately and each denied
infringement and averred that by reason of the proceedings in the Patent Office the patent is limited in its scope
to the subject-matter precisely as claimed and defined
by the claims of the patent; that the prior art was such
that the patent is devoid of novelty and patentable invention; that it is destitute of utility; that it does not
comply with the statutes inprecise. difference from what
preceded it, nor sufficiently describe the method of operating it and the-rocess of making, constructing and using
it; that complainants have a remedy at law and the court
has no jurisdiction; and that the alleged inventors of the
patent were not the first and true inventors of it. Certain
United States, British and German patents are alleged as
ante-dating the invention and certain publications are
represented as having disclosed it.
Public uses of the patent are also circumstantially alleged and profits are denied. It is further alleged that
the invention of the Claude & Hess United States patent
No. 664,383, which is in suit, was patented to George
Claude and Albert Hess by British patent No. 29,750 and
that the latter had expired or ceased before the issue of
patent No. 664,383; that the term of the latter expired
not later than June 30, 1910; that a French patent to the
same patentees expired June 30, 1911, and that therefore
patent No. 664,383 also expired not later than said date;
and so with the German patent and other patents.

FIREBALL GAS CO. v. COMM'L ACETYLENE CO. 159
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The first consideration which presents itself is the
identity of the United States patent 'with the foreign
patents which by their expiration, if they have expired,
have terminated the United States patent.
The letters patent in suit describe the invention as
"An Improvement in Apparatus for the Storage and Distribution of Acetylene Gas." Drawings illustrate the
patent, and it is stated that it "is designed to carry out a
process of storage and distribution involving the employment of a chamber charged with a solvent of the gas to
be stored and into which the gas is forced under suitable
pressure," and that the apparatus is to be charged at a
central station and transported to the place of use, as a
complete article or package. The apparatus is described
and illustrated and it is said that it, embodying the invention, consists essentially in a closed receptacle containing acetylene gas in solution and having an outlet for
the gas so positioned as to be normally above the level of
the solution and adapted to be provided with a burner or
connected with a pipe system for the final use or distribution of the gas which escapes from the solution owing to
the-diminution of pressure when the outlet is opened. It
is constructed and arranged "for the charging process as
well as for the discharging process." Inlet and outlet
passages are provided with suitable valves or cocks to close
the same, and it is desirable, it is said, for the proper operation of the burners supplied in this way that the gas should
be'delivered thereto under a substantially uniform pressure only slightly above the atmospheric pressure, and for
this purpose means are provided. A reducing valve is
shown as the means interposed between the interior of
the receptacle which contains the dissolved gas and the
outlet from which the gas is allowed to escape.
Claims 1, 2 and 5 are those with which we are concerned, and are as follows:
"1. A closed vessel containing a supersaturated solu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

tion of acetylene produced by forcing acetylene into a
solvent under pressure, said vessel having an outlet for
the acetylene gas which escapes from the solvent when
the pressure is released or reduced, and means for controlling said outlet whereby the gas may escape therethrough at substantially uniform pressure, substantially
as described.
"2. A prepared package consisting of a tight shell or
vessel; a solvent of acetylene contained within said vessel;
and acetylene dissolved in and held by said solvent under
pressure and constituting therewith a supersaturated
solution, the package being provided at a point above the
solvent with a reducing valve, substantially as and for
the purpose set forth.
"5. As a new article of manufacture, a gas package
comprising a holder or tight vessel; a contained charge of
acetone; a volume or body of gas dissolved by and compressed, and contained within the solvent; and a reducing
valve applied to an opening extending to the interior of
the holder above the level of the solvent, substantially as
set forth."
It is manifest, therefore, that the' invention is of an
apparatus designed to make use of the property of acetylene and other gases of solubility in a liquid in accordance
with the law of solution (Henry's law), which is that the
amount of gas absorbed by any liquid is proportioned to
the pressure exercised upon the gas. Acetone is mentioned in claim 5 as a solvent.
We may now turn to the various patents whose expiration, it is contended, terminates the United States
patent.
The law is (Rev. Stats., ยง 4887) that "every patent
granted for an invention which has bepn previously patented in a foreign country shall be so limited as to expire
4t the same time with the foreign patent, or, if there be

FIREBALL GAS CO.v. COMM'L ACETYLENE CO.
239 U. S.

161

Opinion of the Court.

more than one, at the same time with the one having the
shortest term, and in'no case shall it be in force more than
seventeen years."
The question then is one of identity betweeti the United
States patent and the foreign patents. The first of the
latter relied upon is the British patent to Claude and Hess
of 1896. The title is "An Improved Method of Storing
Acetylene for Lighting and Other Purposes." The tecification states:
"This invention relates to an improved method of storing acetylene, for lighting and other purposes, in a small
volume in order that it may be supplied in portable form
to the customer, and it consists in dissolving the acetylene
under pressure in certain liquids, the effect of pressure
being to increase the solubility of the acetylene and so
enable a considerable quantity of acetylene to be stored
in a small volume in readiness to be supplied for any
purpose for which it may be required.
"Liquefied acetylene occupies the least volume but the
pressure is very high and may become excessive should
the critical temperature (370 .5) of acetylene be accidentally exceeded. On the other rhand simple compression
of the gas enables dangerous pressures to be avoided; but
the quantity which can be stored in this way is too small.
For these reasons we avail ourselves of the great solubility
of acetylene in certain liquids, and increase this solubility
by pressure, and this method of storing acetylene gas is
the Invention which we hereby broadly claim as our Invention, whatever may be the liquid employed, the kind
of apparatus used, or mode of operation."
Exam ples of liquids which may be employed as solvents
are given. Among these are mentioned "alcohols" and
"particularly acetones." It is stated that mixtures and
combinations of these bodies vary their, solvent power,.
and of this property the patentees said they availed themselves. And further-that the solvent power increases with
voL. ccxxxix-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

pressure and the solution of the gas in a liquid is the
principle of the invention.
The process described as carried on, though subject to
modifications, is as follows: the gas is dissolved in the
liquid chosen and the "solution under pressure, however
obtained, is filled into a receiver of metal or of glass (such
as used for soda-water) capable of resisting the pressure
employed. The receiver has a cock and the necessary
adjuncts for connection, directly or through an expansion
chamber, with the appliances in which the gas is used by
the consumer, the substitution of charged for empty receivers being readily effected. The storage receivers may
vary in dimensions from a small portable, to a large fixed
gas-holder."
The claims describe the method and invention to be the
utilization for the purpose of storage, in a small volume,
of large quantities of acetylene gas, of the solubility of
the gas in certain liquids by the application of pressure
and the novel application as a solvent of acetylene under
pressure for the purpose of storage, transportation, and
utilization for industrial purposes; and the employment
(claim 6) of a receiver containing a liquid charged with
acetylene under pressure and from which the acetylene
is evolved when required for use.
Defendants have fixed on claim 6 as establishing identity, and the British law of patents is relied on. British
United Shoe Machinery Co. v. Fussell & Sons, Ltd., 45
P. R. C. 631. The argument is that not only a receiver
is claimed but a receiver of the exact or equivalent kind
described in the United States patent. Counsel say:
"Evolving gas from a receiver in which the gas is under
pressure necessarily implies an outlet, an outlet necessarily
implies a valve and a valve necessarily implies a control
of the escaping gas." They say further, quoting the cited
case: "'A man must distinguish what is old from what
is new by his claim, but he has not got to distinguish what

FIREBALL GAS CO. v. COMM'L ACETYLENE CO. 163
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is old from what is new in his claim."' Applying the
principle and asserting that the devices described in the
United States patent were old it is contended that they
would be implied as necessary elements of the claim.
Taken at its full import the argument would seem to
establish that there could be no patent for an apparatus
to execute a process if it (apparatus) were a combination
of old elements. In many cases, therefore, the argument
would confound process and apparatus, but it is established that a process may 11e independent of the instruments employed or designed to perform it. They may
be independent or they may be related. "They may
approach each other so. nearly that it will be difficult to
distinguish the process from the function of the apparatus.
In such case the apparatus would be the dominant thing.
But the dominance may be reversed and the process carry
an exclusive right, no matter what apparatus may be
devised to perform it." Steinmetz v. Allen, 192 U. S. 543,
559. However related they may be, to which may be
assigned dominance may be important in considering
the patentable novelty of either or, it may be, the infringement of either, but not whether one has expired because
the other has. Leeds & Catlin v. Victor Talking Machine
Co., 213 U. S. 301,318. The various questions thus arising
may indeed have complexity (Risdon Locomotive Works v.
Medart, 158 U. S.68), but they must not be confounded.
A great deal of what we have said applies to the German patent. Its claim is for "the employment of liquids
charged with acetylene under pressure for the purpose
of utilizing acetylene for illumination, motive power,
heating and the like, characterized by acetylene being
absorbed under pressure by a suitable liquid and the
liquid saturated with acetylene being preserved or contained in suitable vessels, from which the acetylene gas
can be supplied for use, a pressure regulator being preferably interposed."

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

This claim is preceded by a lengthy explanation (too
lengthy to quote) setting forth the properties of acetylene
and its absorption by certain liquids and the dependence
of the amount of absorption upon pressure and the use
of such properties and pressure for storing and utilizing
the gas.. It is said, "The vessels for holding the liquid
saturated with acetylene must be provided with a cock
or valve from which the gas escapes according to the
diminution of pressure which occurs, and can then be
used for the customary purposes." And an apparatus
is described, "with whose aid the storing process can be
carried into practice." Care is taken to mention "that
the process is in no way limited to the apparatus described
and shown." It is clear, therefore, that the process and
the described *vessel of storage are. separate and that the
invention is for the former. An appaiatus was mentioned
in display of the utility of the process. See Tilghman v.
Proctor, 102 U. S. 707. It was not the intention to
claim a particular form of device and secure a patent
for it.
The title of the French patent is "A System of Storing
Acetylene." And it is said that the object of the "invention is a system of storing acetylene whereby acetylene
to be used for any purpose whatsoever, especially for
lighting, may be enclosed in a restricted space and easily
transported."
A description of the process is given and the properties
of the gas and its solvent which make the law of the
process. And it is said the solution under pressure obtained by the means described, "or by any other means,
is placed in a metal recipient (or a glass recipient, like
seltzer water siphons) susceptible of resisting the pressure
employed. The recipient is provided with a faucet and
the necessary fittings to enable it to be connected,. either
directly or by means of an expander, with the apparatus
of consumption at the house of the consumer."

IIREBALL GAS CO. v. COMM'L ACETYLENE CO.
239 U. S.

165

Opinion of the Court.

The claims were:
"1. For the storage of large quantities of acetylene
in a small space, the application of the solubility of this
gas in certain liquids, using pressure for the purpose of
increasing the amount of gas dissolved per unit of volume
of the liquid, as described above;
"2. For the purpose of effecting the solution under
pressure of large quantities of acetylene in a small volume
of liquid, the use of methods and apparatus employed to
cause the solution under pressure of other gases in other
liquids, especially of carbonic acid in water."
There were certificates of addition to the patent, the
first of which sets forth the advantage of mixing the
liquid with a porous body capable of absorbing it. "An
expedient and practical form of accomplishing this" is
set forth in the second certificate. The third certificate
of addition connects the patent "with a safety appliance
to be adapted especially on recipients where the acetylene
is dissolved in an appropriated liquid, such as acetone,
according to the process described in" the patent.
The contention is that the patent is for a "system," not
for a "process or method," and that besides the "'Resume"' or claims of the first patent especially refer to
both "'method and apparatus"' and that "the certificates
of addition, especially the last two, unquestionably are
for the apparatus, namely, the gas tank."
We think the contentions are untenable. The distinction between system and method is too subtle, and, besides, it is clear that the patentee considered the words
as meaning the same thing, and the apparatus referred
to was one, it was said, "employed to cause the solution
under pressure of other gases in other liquids." It was
not the apparatus of the United States patent, though
having some features the same.
But it is contended that even if considered as a 'method'
patent, "it is merely for the method of operating the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

apparatus, constituting the function of the apparatus,
and, therefore, under the decision of this court, is for
the same invention." And this is contended to be established by Mosler Safe & Lock Co. v. Mosler, 127 U. S.
354, and by a ruling of the Patent Office upon the application of Claude and Hess for an "Improvement in a
Method of Storing Acetylene Gas for Distribution" and
the acceptance of that ruling by the applicants.
The Mosler Case, it was said in Miller v. Eagle Manfg.
Co., 151 U. S. 186, 197, held "that a patent having issued
for a product, as made by a certain process, a later patent
could not be granted for the process which results in the
product." The process was a purely mechanical process,
and the ruling, it would seem, must be confined to the
exact facts of the case, for in Miller v. Eagle Manfg. Co.
it was- said (p. 199) that "a single invention may include
both the machine and the manufacture it creates, and
in such cases, if the inventions are really separable, the
inventor may be entitled to a monopoly of each." And
Sewall v. Jones, 91 U. S. 171, 190, was cited for the purpose of showing that there might be a patent for the
process and one for the product. Merrill v. 'Yeomans,
94 U. S.568, was also cited (151 U. S., p. 199) as holding
that "where a patent described an apparatus, a process,
and a product, and the claims cover only the apparatus
and the process, the law provided a remedy by a surrender of the patent and a reissue, for the purpose of embracing the product."
The ruling of the Commissioner of Patents referred,
to above is as follows:
"It was common long prior to the appellants' invention
to force under pressure into a liquid solvent thereof in a
closed vessel and was also common to draw off gas from
a holder where it was contained under pressure, through
an opening, the effective size of which was directly controlled by and proportionate to the pressure of the gas

FIREBALL GAS CO. v. COMM'L ACETYLENE CO.
239 U. S.

167

Opinion of the Court.

within the holder, or, in other words, through a pressure
regulator. The appellants were therefore not the inventors of the step of storing gas, as set forth, nor of
the step of permitting gas to escape from a place of storage
in the manner set forth. Neither of these steps modifies
in any manner the old and expected effect of the other
and the final result of the alleged process, namely, distributing gas at a uniform pressure, is the same as that
produced by processes old in the art, as above stated.
The appellants have therefore not invented a new and
patentanle process, although, as held in a companion case,
they have devised an apparatus by which the old process
of storing gas can be made practically and commercially
useful. Claims to that apparatus have been allowed and
it is believed that it is the only patentable invention
disclosed by them.
"It appears, further, that they do not cover proper
methods, but merely the functions of mechanism and
that they are not patentable in view of the decisions in
Cochrane v. Deener, 94 U. S. 780, and Boyden Brake Co. v.

Westinghouse, 83 0. G. 1067. Claim 3 clearly covers
several independent disc nnected steps which do not go
to make up a patentable process."
The "companion case" referred to by the Commissioner
is the patent in suit, and it will be observed that the
Commissioner said it was for an apparatus by which the
old process of storing gas could be made practically and
commercially useful and that claims to it had been allowed.
It was, therefore, distinctly a patent for an apparatus,
while, on the contrary, all the foreign patents are explicitly for methods. The devices described in them were
not a result of the operation of the methods. Some receptacle or apparatus was necessary to be shown to produce and hold the solution of the gas and the liquid employed as a solvent. Something else was necessary for

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

the use of the solution, and the device of the United
States patent was aimed to secure it. It is distinct
from the method. Whether it has patentable novelty
is another question. And a serious question it is. The
solubility of acetylene in liquids, especially in acetone, is
availed of in all of the patents, United States and foreign.
This cannot be denied-indeed, is admitted-and, as
we have seen, there axe devices described in the foreign
patents for storing the solution and devices indicated
for its use. The similarities and differences between the
patents have given rise to a diversity of opinion and
decision.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the sixth circuit discerned a difference between the British patent and that
in suit and considered that the former was for a process
and the latter for an instrument to perform the process
and, therefore, the two were not for the same invention
and that necessarily the United States patent did not
expire with the British patent. 192 Fed. Rep. 321.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the seventh circuit
expressed a contrary view and decided that the British
patent and the patent in suit were for substantially the
same invention, and the British patent having expired
the. patent in suit expired with it. The decisions had,
respectively, the support of Judge Denison (188 Fed.
Rep. 89) and Judge Kohlsaat (188 Fed. Rep. 85; 192
Fed. Rep. 321).
It was decided in the Circuit Court for the eastern
district of Wisconsin, Judge Quarles sitting, that the
device of the patent in suit was patentable and was not
anticipated by anything in the prior art. 166 Fed. Rep.
907; see also 181 Fed. Rep. 387.
It was this conflict of views that induced this writ, but
the conflict is not as to all questions in the case. If the
decisions of the trial courts may be in opposition on invention and infringement as well as on the effect of the

FIREBALL GAS CO. v. COMM'L ACETYLENE CO. 169
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

foreign patents, such conflict cannot be asserted of the
opinions of the Circuit Courts of Appeal. That of the
eighth circuit-and to which this writ is directed-refrained from a decision on the -merits and considered
only the propriety of the discretion exercised by the trial
court in granting a preliminary injunction; and, reviewing
the expression of judicial opinion, decided that the court
was justified in making the order. The Court of Appeals
went no farther, as we have seen, and we are disposed to
a like limitation. The questions are seriously disputable,
as the difference in decision indicates, and we think we
should follow the Circuit Court of Appeals and imitate
the example of Leeds & Catlin v. Victor Talking Machine
Co., 213 U S. 301, 311, 312. We have not the aid-and
its value is inestimable-of the judgment of the trial
court or of the Circuit Court of Appeals but must consider the question upon conflicting allegations and affidavits. The better course, therefore, is to reserve all
questions except that of the identity of the patent in
suit with the foreign patents and its termination by .their
expiration, and, with that reservation, we decide only
that there was no abuse of discretion in granting and
sustaining the order of injunction.
Affirmed.

