OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

minated in the decree which is before us for review. As
to the charge of the total disregard of all the testimony,
we might well content ourselves with referring to the
opinion of the court below, but in view of the character of
the case we say that from an examination of the record
we think such contention is devoid of all merit.
Affirmed.

NORTON, EXECUTOR, v. WHITESIDE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 55. Argued November 4, 5, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.
A mere formal statement in the bill to the effect that the cause of
action is one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
States does not suffice to give this court jurisdiction to review the

judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals under § 241, Jud. Codeit must appear that the suit really and substantially involves a dispute or controversy respecting the validity, construction or effect
of some law of the United States upon the determination whereof
the result depends. Hull v.. Burr, 234 U. S. 712.
Riparian rights attaching to property patented by the United States
are determined by the law of the State in which the land is situated.
Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371.
The fact that both parties owning parcels of real estate bordering on
a navigable boundary river opposite to each other acquired the
property from the United States does not change or affect the rule
that riparian rights of the parties are to be determined by the law
of the respective States in which the properties are situated.
The provisions in the various ordinances and statutes relating to the
organization of the Northwest Territory referred to in the bill in
this case do not control the riparian rights enjoyed, under the law
of the State wherein the property is situated, by parties who acquired
the land from the United States within the limits of a State carved
out of such Territory.

NORTON v. WHITESIDE.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Averments in a bill as to the general intent of Congress to preserve free
navigation of the rivers within the Northwest Territory are unavailing to give jurisdiction to this court to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals in a case otherwise made final by § 128,
Jud. Code, in the absence of any specific legislation of Congress
influencing the determination of an asserted Federal question in
regard to riparian rights.
The mere fact that Congress directed the improvement of a new channel in a navigable river does not destroy riparian rights existing
under state law and create new ones under Federal law.
In this case as the riparian rights asserted by complainant existed, if
at all, under the law of the State in which the property is situated and
the determination of the issues did not involve the construction of
the Constitution or of any law of the United States, but as the jurisdiction rested on diverse citizenship alone, the decree of the Circuit
Court is final under § 128, Jud. Code, and this court has no jurisdiction to review it under § 241, Jud. Code.
Writ of error to review, 205 Fed. Rep. 5, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
under § 241, Judicial Code, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and the finality of such judgment under § 128, Judicial Code, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Jed h.

Washburn, with whom Mr. William D.

Bailey, Mr. Oscar Mitchell, and Mr. Albert C. Gillette
were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Luther C. Harrisand Mr. Alfred Jaques, with whom

Mr. Theo. T. Hudson was on the brief, for appellee Whiteside.
Mr. Daniel G. Cash and Mr. John B. Richards, Jr., for

appellee Tallas, submitted.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

The appellant, who was complainant below, as the
owner of certain shore land abutting on a stretch of water
VOL. CcxxxIx-1O

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

in or near the upper end or far corner of Lake Superior,
from one point of view sued to quiet his title to the whole
or a part of a certain island which had emerged from the
waters in front of his land, or considered from the same
point of view in a broader aspect, to protect his asserted
riparian rights in the submerged land in front of his shore
property. The defendants who are appellees were owners
or possessors either of property on the opposite shore or of
the whole or part of the emerged island, and the controversy resulted from a difference between the parties as
to the character and extent of their riparian rights and
as to the ownership of the island which had emerged in
the stretch of water between the two shores. The District
Court upheld the theory of the existence in the complainant of the riparian rights asserted by him and therefore
awarded relief upon that basis except as to a portion of
the emerged island as to which it gave no relief because
in consequence of adverse possession by one of the defendants, it was considered there was an adequate remedy
at law and consequently no right to equitable relief. 188
Fed. Rep. 356. On appeal the court below, not approving
the full character or extent of the riparian rights asserted
by the complainant and recognized by the trial court,
reversed with directions to dismiss the bill (205 Fed. Rep.
5), and it is in consequence of an appeal from that decree
that the case is now before us.
A motion to dismiss upon the ground that the decree
appealed from is beyond our competency to review because made final under § 128 of the Judicial Code (36
Stat. 1133, c. 231) requires to be disposed of. To test its
merits we must first ascertain whether the jurisdiction
of the District Court was invoked solely on the ground of
diverse citizenship. St. Anthony's Church v. Pennsylvania
R. R., 237 U. S. 575, 577, and cases cited. That taking
the face of the bill from the point of view of mere form
of statement, diverse citizenship was not the only ground

NORTON v. WHITESIDE.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of jurisdiction relied upon is apparent since the bill besides
diversity of citizenship alleged that the cause of action
was one arising under the Constitution and laws of the
United States. This, however, does not suffice to solve
the question since it is settled that a mere formal statement to that effect is not enough to establish that the
suit arises under the Constitution and laws of the United
States but that it must appear that "it really and substantially involves a dispute or controversy respecting
the validity, construction, or effect of some law of the
United States, upon the determination of which the result
depends. And this must appear not by mere inference,
but by distinct averments according to the rules of good
pleading. . . ." Hull v. Burr, 234 U. S. 712, 720, and
authorities there cited. Before coming to the text of the
complaint, to understandingly test whether it fulfills these
requirements we give the merest outline of the condition
out of which the controversy grew and to which the complaint related.
The boundary line of Wisconsin under its enabling act,
starting from a designated point, ran "through the center
of Lake Superior to the mouth of the St. Louis River;
thence up the main channel of said river to the first rapids
in the same," etc. And the boundary line in one respect
of Minnesota from the point where it intersected with the
St. Louis River followed the main channel of that river
"to and through Lake Superior, on the boundary line of
Wisconsin and Michigan, until it intersects the dividing
line between the United States and the British Possessions." From the point of intersection where it first becomes the boundary of the States of Wisconsin and
Minnesota, in its flow towards Lake Superior, the St.
Louis River approaches Lake Superior in the direction
of a large bay or indentation therein. From one point of
view the river at once leaving the fast land empties into
and is immediately absorbed in this bay. From another

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

the river before it empties into the lake expands into a
stretch of shallow water contained within the north or
Minnesota shore upon which is Duluth and the south or
Wisconsin shore upon which is the City of Superior,
through which shallow stretch a tortuous but navigable
channel curvingly cortinues to flow until by a passage
through an intervening bar the river emptying into the
bay merges its existence with that of the lake. We say
tortuous channel because the banks on either side -of the
flange-like stretch of water are not symmetrical, but are
indented with various bays of divergent shape and expanse, and the water itself is irregularly interspersed
with islands or flats which deflect the channel we have
described and cause it greatly to meander as it proceeds
to its ultimate destination in the bay through the bar in
question. It will thus be seen that the difference between
the two points of view is this, that one treats the lake as
embracing the expanded though shallow stretch of water
in question, and the other considers the shallow stretch of
water as a part of the river until the point is reached
where, 'traversing the bar, the lake and river are completely and beyond room for any possible question
united.
On the Minnesota or north shore of this shallow stretch
of water the complainant owned land. The channel flowing through the stretch of water as it approached the
complainant's land curved towards the Minnesota shore
and therefore in passing in front of that land was nearer
the north or Minnesota shore. In the stretch of water
nearly opposite the complainant's land, but over towards
the south or Wisconsin shore there was a large island'
known as Big Island, admittedly in the State of Wisconsin, owned by Whiteside, one of the defendants, and about
two thousand feet lay between the outer shore of this
island and the complainant's land on the northern shore.
In the intervening sgpace between the channel and this

NORTON v. WHITESIDE.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

island, and therefore on the south or Wisconsin side of the
channel, there gradually emerged a smaller island.
It having been determined to improve the navigation
in the channel through the stretch of water in qtestion,
the plans to accomplish that purpose were approved by
the Secretary of War in 1899, and in virtue of an appropriation by Congress the work under the plans was carried
out by the United States between the years 1899 and 1902.
It is not necessary for the elucidation of the averments
of the bill to do more than say that the carrying out of
this work resulted in the creation of a new navigable channel which in passing through the stretch of water instead
of swinging towards the north or Minnesota shore in front
of the complainant's land curved in the other direction
and therefore approached nearer the Wisconsin shore
than did the old channel. In doing so it consequently
reached or struck the emerged island of which we have
spoken near its Wisconsin or south side, and cutting
through it virtually put the new and enlarged channel on
the Wisconsin side of such emerged island. What remained of the island thereafter hence lay between the
newly created channel and the lands of the complainant
on the north or Minnesota shore. In other words, as the
result of the creation of the new channel the lands of the
complainant to the extent that the emerged island accomplished that result, were separated from the new channel. In the performance of the work it may be conceded
that in cutting through the emerged or small island the
excavated earth was largely dumped on the surface of the
island towards the Minnesota shore and that either because of the washing of this earth into the old channel or
the sedimentary deposit caused by the slackening of the
velocity of the water flowing through it, the old channel
opposite the land of the complainant became not suitable
for, or more difficult of, navigation.
In view of this situation we come to consider the bill,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

its averments and the light thrown on them by the relief
prayed in order to determine whether in any substantial
manner whatever it involved the construction or application of the Constitution or laws of the United States
within the criteria embraced by the established rule which
we at the outset stated. Instead of following the order
of the twenty-four paragraphs which the bill contains, we
rearrange and group them under five headings, omitting
many redundancies of statement, but leaving out nothing
which can throw light upon the cause of action relied upon.
(a) The parties. The complainant was alleged to be
a citizen of Kentucky and the defendants, Whiteside,
Alexander and Tallas, were alleged to be citizens of the
State of Minnesota and inhabitants of the district in
which the suit was brought.
(b) The grievances complained of. It was alleged that
the complainant owned land under patents from the
United States on the Minnesota side of the stretch of
water at the point to which we have referred, that the
defendant, Whiteside, under title acquired also from the
United States, owned land on the Wisconsin side, Big
Island, that Alexander, either in his own right or in connection with Whiteside, claimed some land on the Wisconsin side and resulting riparian rights, and that Tallas
had taken possession of a part of the small or emerging
island, erected a small structure thereon and without right
in law was asserting ownership therein, the land never
having been disposed of by public authority. It was
averred that both Whiteside and Alexander by virtue of
their shore ownership were asserting riparian rights crossing the new or government channel to the old or original
channel embracing what remained of the emerged island
and that Tallas by virtue of his possession of the island
which remained was asserting the right to hold it as owner.
(c) The rights asserted. Averring that the stretch of
water was a part of Lake Superior, in substance it was

NORTON v. WHITESIDE.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

asserted that as the complainant owned shore land on the
Minnesota side there existed riparian rights extending out
to the center of the channel flowing through tne stretch
of water, securing to the shore owner the consequent right
of direct access to such channel and this right it was in
substance alleged embraced the power not only to extend
to the old channel, but to the new navigable channel c-onstructed in improvement of navigation by the United
States and to enjoy riparian rights coterninous therewith,
and that therefore the asserted rights by Whiteside,
Alexander and Tallas were in conflict with such right upon
the part of the complainant and cast a cloud upon his title
giving him the right to equitable relief.
(d) The legal grounds asserted as the basis of the relief
prayed. The Lill alleged the historical fact of the original
ownership by Virginia of the territory in which the lands
in controversy were embraced, of its passing to the Confederation as a part of the vast domain ceded by Virginia,
of the adoption of the Northwest Territory Ordinance in
1787, the stipulation contained in that ordinance that
"the navigable waters leading into the Mississippi and St.
Lawrence rivers, . . . shall be common highways and
forever free as well to the inhabitants of said Territory
as to the citizens of the United States and those of other
States that may be admitted into the Confederacy, without any tax, impost or duty therefor." The bill further
referred to the act of Congress of May, 1796, providing
for the sale of lands within the Northwest Territory, including the lands in question, reciting the provision therein
"that all navigable rivers within the territory to be disposed of by virtue of this act, shall be deemed to be and
remain public highways and that in all cases where the
opposite banks of any stream, not navigable, shall belong to
different persons, the stream and the bed thereof shall become common to both." It alleged the subsequent carving
out of said territory of the States of Ohio, Indiana, Mich-

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

igan, Wisconsin and part of Minnesota and the reservation in the Enabling Acts preserving the navigable waters
bordering upon the same as common highways and extending concurrent jurisdiction to the States bordering
thereon. Proceeding, the bill alleged the boundaries of
the two States of Wisconsin and Minnesota as stated in
the Enabling Acts to which we have referred, including the
line of the main channel of the St. Louis River and the
center of Lake Superior at the points and as described
in the statement which we have previously made. It
alleged that under the laws of Minnesota the riparian
rights extending to the center of the main navigable
channel were valid as asserted by the complainant and
in practice had been recognized by the exercise of taxing
and other powers. So far as the United States was concerned, growing out of the averments as to the formation
of the Northwest Territory and of the States just referred
to, it was alleged:
"That in the preservation of public rights on such
navigable waters, where the same constitute state boundaries, it was the intent of the Federal Government and
of the States to forever maintain and preserve the rights
of the respective States and the citizens thereof, to have
access to the navigable and navigated channels of such
boundary waters and among the most ancient and important rights of private owners, incidental to the ownership of the shore lands abutting upon Such boundary
waters, is the right to wharf out to and have access to the
navigable and navigated channel of such waters fron) such
shore lands, and to have connection from such shore
lands, throughout the extent thereof, with commerce
upon such navigable and navigated part or channel of
such waters, subject always to the paramount control
over the whole of such waters by the United States."
It was charged that the emerging of the small island
opposite the land of the complainant had occurred after

NORTON v. WHITESIDE.
239 U. S.

153

Opinion of the Court.

the survey, sale and patent of complainant's land by the
United States. In addition the bill charged that under
the power of the United States to regulate commerce,
harbor lines had at various times been established which
extended from the respective shores to the old channel
before the new one was constructed and that under the
plans approved by the Secretary of War for the new work
it was contemplated that harbor lines should extend from
the respective shores to that channel.
(e) The relief prayed. The prayer was that the riparian
rights of the complainant be recognized and enforced from
the shore out to the new navigable channel created by the
work done by the United States, and that all rights of t e
defendants as riparian owners which they asserted to 4xtend across the new channel over to the old channel e
declared to be invalid and that they be restrained from
asserting or enforcing them.
Coming to test these averments we fail to perceive any
ground for holding that the rights asserted rested in*any
degree whatever upon a substantial claim under the Constitution or laws of the United States or by any possibility
involved, the construction or application of any law of the
United States for the following reasons: First, because as
to the claim of riparian rights on the riavigable waters in
question it was long since affirmatively settled that such
claim solely involves a question of state law and therefore
at the time the bill wai filed it was not open to contend to
the contrary. Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S. 324; Hardi. v.
Jordan, 140 U. S. 371; Grand Rapids & Ind. R. R. v.
Butler, 159 U. S. 87; Devine v. Los Angeles, 202 U.'S. 3Ag.
Second, because the mere fact that both parties, the one
holding on the Wiscongin shore and the other on the
Minnesota shore, had acquired the property by them held
from the United States, it is also affirmatively settled, in
no way changes the situation. Blackburn v. Portland
Mining Co., 175 U. S. 571; Florida Central &c. R. R. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

Bell, 176 U. S. 321; Shoshone Mining Co. v. Rutter, 177
U. S. 505; Shulthis v. McDougal. 225 U. S. 561, 569.
Third, because. so far as the references in the bill to the
organization of the Northwest Territory and to the

various provisions relating to navigable waters are concerned, however interesting they may be historically, we
can see not the slightest ground for the contention that
they were controlling or in any way could influence the
question of the nature and character of the riparian rights
enjoyed under the state law by the complainants. Fourth,
because we can discover in the averments of the bill no

substantive statement indicating that it was contended
to the contrary, unless it be that such purpose could be
implied as the result of the general averments of the bill
which we have quoted concerning the general intent of
Congress to preserve free navigation. But if we were to
indulge in such assumption the result would not be different,., as the averments in question make no reference
to any specific legislation of Congress which would have
the slightest influence upon the determination of the
existence of the riparian rights which the bill asserted.
Fifth, because we are clearly of the opinion that the mere
fact that Congress in the exercise of its power to improve
navigation directed the construction of the new channel
affords no basis whatever for the assumption that thereby

as a matter of Federal law rights of property, if secured
by the state law, were destroyed and new rights of property under the assumption indulged in incompatible with
that, law were bestowed by Congress. And especially are
we constrained to this view by the fact that there is no
question here of any interference with work done by the
United States under its paramount authority to improve
navigation or any attempt to render the result of that
work inefficacious. This will be lucidly illustrated by
considering for a moment the action of both the courts
below, since neither questioned the paramount authority

NORTON v. WHITESIDE.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and right of the United States in aid of navigation to
construct the new channel or concerned themselves with
any real or imaginary impediment to navigation. This is
at once demonstrated by considering that the only difference between the two was the conclusion in the trial
court that the effect of constructing the new channel was
to extend the riparian rights over and across the old
channel to the new, irrespective of the rights of property
changed or destroyed thereby, because the new channel
was to be treated not as a new work but as the gradual and
natural modification of the old, while the court below
reached a directly contrary conclusion.
Finally we are of opinion that the question whether the
stretch of water and the channel through it be treated as
a part of Lake Superior as asserted by the complainant,
or be considered at the point in issue as a mere continuation of the St. Louis River as asserted by the defendants
(a view held by both the courts below), is wholly negligible
for the purpose of determining whether *a substantial
Federal question was alleged justifying our taking jurisdiction of the cause.
As from what we have said it results that our opinion is
that there is no substantial ground for concluding that the
jurisdiction of the District Court rested upon any assertion of Federal right, irrespective of diverse citizenship,
justifying our review of the court below, it follows that
the appeal must be and it is
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

