ESSEX v. NEW ENGLAND TEL. CO.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

TOWN OF ESSEX v. NEW ENGLAND TELEGRAPH
COMPANY OF MASSACHUSETTS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 56. Argued November 5, 1915.-Decided December 6, 1916.
The contention that an act of Congress as construed and applied by
the District Court transcends the power of Congress, if of sufficient
substance gives this court jurisdiction of a direct appeal under § 238,
Judicial Code.
The Post Road Act of 1866 substantially declares, in the interest of
commerce and the convenient transmission of intelligence from
place to place by the Government of the United States and its
citizens, that the erection of telegraph lines shall, so far as state
interference is concerned, be free to all who will submit to the conditions imposed. Pensacola Tel. Co. v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1.
A State has no authority to say that a telegraph company may operate
lines constructed over postal routes within its borders. West Un.
Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125-U. S. 530.
A city may not arbitrarily exclude wires and poles of a telegraph
company from its streets, but may impose reasonable restrictions
and regulations. West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Richmond, 224 U. S. 160.
Where a town has given written permission to a telegraph company
specifying how posts could be placed and wires run, and the company
has complied with such permission, such lines are protected by the
Post Road Act of 1866 against subsequent exclusion or other arbitrary action by the town.
A municipality may, under exceptional circumstances, be held to have
waived its rights, or to have estopped itself to assert them as by
acquiescing for a long period in the maintenance of the system and
large expenditures of money in connection therewith by a telegraph
company.
The Post Road Act of 1866 must be construed and applied in recognition of the existing conditions and with a view to effectuate the purposes for which it was enacted.
Where rights of a telegraph company under the Post Road Act'would
be violated by threatened arbitrary action by a municipality, they
may be protected by injunction; but the injunction should not
prevent the municipality from subjecting the location and operation
of the company's lines to reasonable regulations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Appellant.

239 U. S.

Tm facts, which involve the rights of telegraph companies under, and the construction of, the Post Road
Act of 1866, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William G. Thompson, Mr. George E. Mears and
Mr. Romney Spring for appellant, submitted:
On the date of the filing of the petition of June 1, 1905,
this plaintiff was occupying the streets of the Town of
Essex without any right whatever, either under the laws
of the Commonwealth or of the United States.
The plaintiff had acquired no right to occupy said streets
by complying with the statutes of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts.
The plaintiff had acquired no right to occupy said
streets by lapse of time or by the acquiescence of any
officials.
The plaintiff had acquired no right to occupy said
streets under the act of Congress of July 24, 1866.
The selectmen's denial of the petition of June 1, 1905,
did not impair any Federal right of the plaintiff under the
act of Congress of July 24, 1866.
The only action of the selectmen that could have impaired the plaintiff's rights is a formal vote evidenced solely
by the record required by the statute.
These propositions being sound, the denial by the selectmen of the petition of June 1, 1905, could not possibly
impair any right of the plaintiff, for that petition was not
the plaintiff's petition.
Even if the petition of June 1, 1905, is regarded as the
petition of this plaintiff, then under the statute from which
the selectmen derived their powers to act, they had no
jurisdiction to grant it.
If the selectmen's denial of the petition (assumed for
the purposes of argument to be the petition of the plaintiff) was required by a state statute, which was reasonable on any view of the meaning of the act of July 24, 1866,

ESSEX v. NEW ENGLAND TEL. CO.
239 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

then that denial could not possibly impair any right of
the plaintiff under the act of Congress.
Even if the action of the selectmen may be ascertained
from declarations and explanations outside their record,
still no impairment of any Federal right of the plaintiff is
shown.
The threats of the selectmen furnish the company no
ground whatever for equitable relief in a Federal court,
either against the town, or against the selectmen themselves.
The plaintiff, an open and persistent violator of the
law, cannot invoke the assistance of a court of equity.
Even if the language of the selectmen most favorable
to the plaintiff be adopted, the District Court had no right
to make this a ground for an injunction, either against
the town or against the selectmen.
Even if the preceding three main propositions were all
,unsound, the final decree should be modified.
The terms of the injunction, if granted, would deprive
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts of all power in the
future to impose any regulations at all upon the lines of
the plaintiff.
Even if such an injunction were not a violation of the
eleventh amendment to the Constitution, it is far in excess
of anything necessary to protect the rights of the plaintiff
under the act of Congress of July 24, 1866.
The injunction plainly and unwarrantably deprives
the town of a remedy conferred upon it by the laws of
the Commonwealth, viz.: R. L., c. 25, § 54.
The decree also nullifies the provisions of R. L., c. 122,'
§§ 16-23.
The decree also unwarrantably hampers the town in
protecting itself by proceedings in the state courts under
R. L., c. 51, § 18.
The limitation of the decree by the language suggested
is the least that is required to render the decree valid on

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

any theory of the scope of the act of Congress of July 24,
1866.
Numerous authorities are cited in support of these
contentions of appellants.
Mr. G. Philip Wardner for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Appellant was enjoined by the decree below from interfering with the operation of lines owned by the appellee
company. The controversy arose under the act of Congress approved July 24, 1866 (14 Stat. 221, c. 230, Rev.
Stat., § 5263, et seq.), which declares that companies
accepting its provisions "shall have the right to construct,
maintain, and operate lines, of telegraph . . . over
and along any of the military or post roads of the United
States," provided they do not interfere with ordinary
travel. Appellant insists that, as construed and applied
below, the statute transcends the powers granted to Congress by the Constitution; and there is sufficient substance
in the claim to give us jurisdiction.
The appellee was incorporated under the laws of Massachusetts, April 7, 1884. Immediately thereafter it filed
with the Postmaster General a written acceptance of the
restrictions and obligations prescribed by the act of
July 24, 1866, and constructed lines of wires strung upon
poles across the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and
particularly along certain streets and roads in the Town
of Essex. These have been continuously operated in
connection, on the east, with cables reaching foreign countries, and, on the west, with wires leading to all parts of
the Union; for a long time they have constituted an important part of the Postal Telegraph and Cable system;
and over them pass great numbers of interstate and foreign

ESSEX v. NEW ENGLAND TEL. CO.
239 U. S,

Opinion of the Court.

messages, many being transmitted for the United States
under official regulations.
The especially pertinent provisions of the Massachusetts
laws relating to companies incorporated for transmitting
intelligence by electricity, in force during 1884 and long
thereafter, appear in Public Statutes, chapter 109, §§ 2, 3,
15, and chapter 27, § 49, and are as follows:
"Each company may under the provisions of the following section construct lines of electric telegraph upon
and along the highways and public roads, and across any
waters within the Commonwealth, by the erection of the
posts, piers, abutments, and other fixtures (except bridges)
necessary to sustain the wires of its lines; but shall not
incoimmode the public use of highways or public roads,
nor endanger or interrupt the navigation of any waters."
"The Mayor and Aldermen or Selectmen of a place
through which the lines of a comjany are to pass shall
give the company a writing specifying where the posts
may be located, the kind of posts and the height at which,
and the places where, the wires may run. After the erection of the lines, having first given the company or its
agents opportunity to be heard, they may direct any
alteration in the location or erection of the posts, piers, or
abutments, and in the height of the wires. Such specifications and decisions shall be recorded in the records of the
city or town."
"No enjoyment by a person or corporation for any
length of time of the privileges of having or maintaining
telegraph posts, wires or apparatus in, upon, over or attached to any building or land of other persons, shall
give a legal right to the continued enjoyment of such
easements or raise any presumption of a grant thereof."
"The Selectmen of the town may empower citizens of
Massachusetts to establish and maintain in such town
posts, wires and other apparatus for telegraphic and tele-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

phonic communication in conformity with the provisions
of In
Chapter 109."
Pierce v. Drew, 136 Massachusetts, 75, 76-77
(1883),
the Supreme Court said of chapter 109:
"That it was the intent of the statute to grant to those
corporations, formed under the general incorporation laws,
for the purpose of transmitting intelligence by electricity,
the right to construct lines of telegraph upon and along
highways and public roads upon the locations assigned to
them by the officers of the municipality wherein such ways
are situate, cannot be doubted.
"No right is given these companies to use the highways
at their own pleasure, or to compel in all cases, as the
plaintiff suggests, locations therein to be given them by
the municipal authorities. The second section of the
statute is to be construed with the third section, and
shows an intention that a legally constituted board shall
determine not only where, but whether, there can be a
location which shall not incommode the ordinary public
ways, with full power to revise its own doings, and to
correct any errors which the practical working of the
arrangement may reveal."
The evidence warrants the conclusion that in 1884
appellee made written application to the Essex Selectmen
for a right of way, but their records disclose nothing concerning the matter. Directly thereafter, without opposition, the existing lines were constructed along four miles
of the town's highways. During many succeeding years
no objection appears to have been made to their operation,
and, until a short time before this suit was begun, their
presence was acquiesced in. Certainly no sort of affirmative action was taken to interfere with them; and there
is evidence indicating that half the poles were relocated
under direction of a selectman, about 1$95, when the
electric railway was laid down.
In 1902, repairs being needed, the selectmen were peti-

ESSEX v. NEW ENGLAND TEL. CO.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tioned to locate the poles and license their future maintenance. This request was not granted. In 1905, repairs
having become imperative, another petition for a location
was presented. This was refused; officers of the town then
denied appellee's right to use the highways, and threatened
to prevent repairs, by forc6 if necessary, and to take action
against future operation of the lines within its limits.
Thereupon, July 31, 1905 (twenty-one years after original
construction), the telegraph company, relying on the act
of 1866, commenced this proceeding in the District Court,
seeking an injunction against threatened interference.
By a temporary order granted September 5, 1905, the
town, its officers, agents and employ6s, were "enjoined
and restrained, until the further order of this court, from
interfering in any manner whatsoever with the complain-,
ant's line of telegraph in said defendant town, or with the
location or re-location by the complainant on the roads
and highways now occupied by its said line of telegraph in
said defendant town, or with the re-setting of the poles of
said line in said town by the complainant, or with the
complainant's, making such repairs and changes as are
necessary to put said line in a condition of safety and
efficiency, or from in any manner causing or allowing any
other person or corporation to interfere with or stop such
location, re-location, re-setting, repairs or changes by
the complainant."
Answering, September 26, 1905, appellant claimed the
lines were constructed without any authority whatsoever
and denied the company's right, under the act of 1866 or
otherwise, to maintain or operate them. A cross bill was
also presented, alleging unlawful use of the ways and
praying that the company be restrained therefrom until
a franchise shall be obtained as provided by state laws.
No motion was ever made to dissolve the temporary
injunction. The cause coming on for final hearing upon
pleadings and proofs in 1913 (twenty-nine years subse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

quent to construction), the court held that the act of 1866
protected the lines from interference, and rendered a
decree dismissing the cross bill, sustaining the original
bill, and awarding a perpetual injunction substantially in
the language of the preliminary order dated September 5,
1905.
Appellant now maintains that the court below erroneously construed and applied the act of 1866 and undertook
to bestow upon the telegraph company rights in its highways beyond the power of Congress to grant; that its
ways are occupied without lawful authority, either state
or Federal; that such occupation constitutes a continuing
nuisance; and that the original bill should have been
dismissed, leaving the town free to act as seemed advisable.
Many opinions of this court establish beyond question
the validity and point out the general purposes of the
act of 1866. "It substantially deolares, in the interest
of commerce and the convenient transmission of intelligence from place to place by the Government of the
United States and its citizens, that the erection of telegraph lines shall, so far as state interference is concerned,
be free to all who will submit tb the conditions imposed."
Pensacola Telegraph Co. v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1,
11. A State has no authority to say that a telegraph
company may not operate lines constructed over postal
routes within its borders. West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530, 554. A City may not arbitrarily
exclude the wires and poles of a telegraph company from
its streets, but may impose reasonable restrictions and
regulations. St. Louis v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 148 U. S.
92, 105; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Richmond, 224 U. S. 160,
170. See also West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R.,
195 U. S. 540; United States v. Union Pacific Ry., 160
U. S. 1, 44; Postal Tel. Co. v. Chicopee, 207 Massachusetts,
341,343.
If the official records of the selectmen disclosed that,

ESSEX v. NEW ENGLAND TEL. CO.
239 U. S.

321-

Opinion of the Court.

responding to the petition of 1884, they gave a writing
"specifying where the posts may be located, the kind of
posts, and the height at which and the places where the
wires may run," and if thereafter the telegraph company
had placed poles and strung wires accordingly, plainly,
we think, under the opinions cited above, such lines would
be protected by the act of 1866 against exclusion or other
arbitrary action by the town.
With full knowledge of all circumstances, the town
authorities permitted the location and construction of
lines along the highways, and for more than twenty years
acquiesced in their maintenance and operation. The
company has expended large sums of money and perfected
a great instrumentality of interstate and foreign commerce, in the continued operation of which both the
general public and the Government have an important
interest. Under similar circumstances it has been determined, upon broad principles of equity, that an owner of
land, occupied by a railroad-without his previous consent,
will be regarded as having acquiesced therein and be
estopped from maintaining either trespass or ejectment
(Roberts v. Northern Pacific R. R. Co., 158 U. S. 1, 11;
Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Smith, 171 U. S. 260, 271,
275); and like reasons may demand similar protection
to the possession of a telegraph company. A municipal
corporation, under exceptional circumstances, may be
held to have waived its rights or to have estopped itself.
Randolph County v. Post, 93 U. S. 502, 513; Boone County
v. Burlington &c. R. R., 139 U. S. 684, 693; City Railway
v. Citizens' Railroad, 166 U. S. 557, 566; Louisville v.
Cumberland Telephone Co., 224 U. S. 649, 662; Dillon,
Municipal Corporations, 5th ed.,. §§ 1194, 1227.
The streets and highways of Essex are undoubtedly
post roads within the meaning of the act of 1866. West.
Un. Tel. Co. v. Richmond, supra; act of March 1, 1884,
c. 9, 23 Stat. 3. What rights-if any-in respect of them
VOL. ccxxxix-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1915Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

were immediately secured by the telegraph company
through acceptance of that act, we need not consider. It
entered upon those now occupied notoriously, peacefully
and without objection, and has developed there a necessary means of communication. The statute must be
construed and applied in recognition of existing conditions
and with a view to effectuate the purposes for which it
was enacted. Among the latter, as stated in Pensacola
Tel. Co. v. West. Un. Tel. Co. and West. Un. Tel. Co. v.
Massachusetts, supra, are the extension and protection of
instrumentalities essential to commercial intercourse and
the efficient conduct of governmental affairs. In the
circumstances, appellee has acquired the same Federal
right to maintain'and operate its poles and wires along
the ways in question that would have attached had the
selectmen granted a formal antecedent permit. Commercial transactions and the orderly conduct of governmental business have come to depend on the daily use of
these lines and certainly would be as seriously hindered by
their severance as if they had been constructed after an
official location. There is no suggestion that ordinary'
travel is being interfered with; and, having long acquiesced in appellee's peaceful possession, the town may
not now rely upon the claim that this was obtained without compliance with prescribed regulations and treat the
company as a naked trespasser. Its rights under the
Federal law would be violated by the threatened arbitrary
interference.
The further claim is here made for the first time that,
in any event, the injunction is too broad. In West. Un.
Tel. Co. .v. Richmond, supra, it was pointed out that the
act of 1866 does not deprive a municipality of the right
to subject telegraph companies occupying its streets to
reasonable regulations. The injunction as granted might
interfere with action altogether proper and the decree
below will be modified by the addition of the words,

PROVO BENCH CANAL CO. v. TANNER.
239 U. S.

323

Opinion of the Court.

"Provided, that nothing herein shall be so construed as
to prevent the Board of Selectmen or the Town of Essex
from subjecting the location and operation of the company's lines to reasonable regulations." With this modification, it is affirmed. The costs will be charged to
appellant.
Modified and affirmed.

PROVO BENCH CANAL AND IRRIGATION
COMPANY v. TANNER,
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 72. Argued November 11, 1915.-Decided December 6, 1915.
In eminent domain proceedings, an award of one dollar for property
taken for an easement does not deprive the owner of his property
without due process of law if the state court recognized the right
to recover for any substantial damage, but found as matter of fact
that no damage whatever had been shown.

40 Utah, 105, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity under the due

process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment of a
statute of Utah, and judgment of the Supreme Court of
that State, regarding rights to flow waters and construct
irrigation ditches, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. W. N. Whitecotton for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. CharlesS. Varian for defendant in error submitted.
Memorandum opinion by MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS,
by direction of the court.
Plaintiffs in error, having acquired easements and rights
of way over certain lands in the State of Utah, con-

