OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

not exactly accommodate the conditions or that some
other exercise would have been better or less harsh. We
must accord good faith to the city in the absence of a
clear showing to the contrary and an honest exercise of

judgment upon the circumstances which induced its
action.

We do not notice the contention that the ordinance is
not within the city's charter powers nor that it is in violation of the state constitution, such contentions raising
only local questions which must be deemed to have been
decided adversely to petitioner by the Supreme Court of
the State.
Judgment affirmed.

WILLIAMS v. JOHNSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 110. Submitted December 6, 1915.-Decided December 20, 1915.
'Indians are wards of the Nation; Congress has plenary control over
tribal relations and property and this power continues after the
Indians are made 6itizens and may be exercised as to restrictions on
alienation of allotments. Tiger v,Western Investment Co., 221 U. S.
286; Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665, distinguished.
The provision in the Act of April 21, 1904, c. 33, Stat. 204, removing
certain restrictions on alienation of allotments to Choctaw Indians
imposed by the Act of July 1, 1902, was within the power of Congress
and was not, under the Fifth Amendment, an unconstitutional deprivation of property of Indians to whom allotments had been
made; nor did it impair the obligation of the contract theretofore
made between the United States and the Choctaw and Chickasaw
Nations in regard to allotments.
Quore whether the grantee of an Indian can avail of the right, if any, of
the Indian to assert the unconstitutionality of an act of Congress af-

WILLIAMS v. JOHNSON.
239 U. S.

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

fecting the rights of the Indian, or whether such grantee can be
heard to urge rights of the tribe to which his grantor belonged.
32 Oklahoma, 247, affirmed.

TH facts, which involve the title to allotted lands conveyed by a Choctaw Indian and the construction, application and constitutionality of Acts of Congress relating
to the allotment of lands to Choctaw Indians and restriction of alienation thereon, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Eli P. Williams, Mr. Elmer Williams and Mr.
Charles H. Williams for plaintiffs in error pro se:
Private property rights are protected by the Federal
Constitution.
The land involved herein is not alienable.
The Choctaw and Chickasaw nations were owners of
land, and grantors in the patent that conveyed same.
When Taylor accepted the patent he was bound and
so was the tribe and government.
The act of Congress of April 21, 1904, was unconstitutional so far as applied to the restriction upon Taylor.
The restrictions attached to land were not repealable.
The private property rights of Taylor were secured and
enforced to same extent and in same way as other residents or citizens.
The statutes of Arkansas were in force in Indian Territory and applied to the Indians.
In support of these contentions, see CarondeletCanalCo.,
233 U. S. 362; Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665; Fleming v. McCurtain, 215 U. S. 56; Jones v. Mehan, 175
U. S. 1; Mallett v. North Carolina, 181 U. S. 589; Mullen v. United States, 224 U. S. 448; San Jose Land Co. v.
San Jose Ranch Co., 189 U. S. 177; Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286; Ward v. Racehorse, 163 U. S.
503.
Mr. Reford Bond, Mr. Alger Melton and Mr. Adrian
Melton for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

MR. JusTiCE McKNNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Suit to quiet title brought by Johnson, defendant in
error, in the district court of Grady County, State of Oklahoma, against plaintiffs in error.
The contention of defendant in error is that the land
was an allotment to one Selin Taylor, a member of the
Choctaw Tribe of Indians by blood; that on November 22,
1904, a patent was duly issued to him executed by the
proper officers of that Nation and the Chickasaw Nation,
and the United States, and that at the time of the allotment the land was inalienable.
On February 9, 1906, the United States Indian agent
issued to Taylor a certificate (No. 2458) removing Taylor's
disabilities respecting the alienation of the land and on
February 16 Taylor conveyed the land by warranty deed
to C. B. Campbell, and the latter and his wife, on March 13
following, conveyed the land by like deed to Johnson. The
deeds were duly recorded.
On November 15, 1906, Taylor and his wife conveyed
the land by. warranty deed to James E. Whithead, and on
October 22, 1909., Whitehead conveyed the land to one
McNeill, who, on the 25th of that month, conveyed to
Johnson.
Johnson's petition alleged that the claim of title of the
defendant's (plaintiffs in error here) was based upon a
power of attorney covering the land executed by Taylor
on March 11, 1907, and charged that the power of attorney
constituted a cloud upon his (Johnson's), title.
The answer of the defendants admitted the allotment to
Taylor and the execution of the various instruments of
conveyance from him and his grantees to Johnson, and
alleged that Taylor received his allotment under an act
of Congress of July 1, 1902, c. 1362, 32 Stat. 641, known as
an "Act to Ratify and Confirm an Agreement with the

WILLIAMS v. JOHNSON.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Choctaw and Chickasaw Tribes of Indians, and for Other
Purposes" and that the act was called an "agreement"
and was ratified by Congress and the voters of those
tribes, and was a binding contract upon the United States
and the Indians of those tribes and particularly Taylor.
That Taylor is not a ward of the United States and was
not at the time the land was allotted, and that by an act
of Congress of March 3, 1901, c. 68, 31 Stat. 1447, Taylor
was made a citizen of the United States, with the rights,
privileges and immunities of such.
That the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations and not the
United States are the grantors in the patent to Taylor
and imposed restrictions upon him against the alienation
of the land and have not consented t6 the removal of
those restrictions. That the deeds executed by Taylor
under which Johnson claimed title were in violation of
such restrictions and therefore void. That the patent to
Taylor was issued by authority of ยง 29 of the act of Congress of June 28, 1898, c. 517, 30 Stat. 495, 505, and contained the following clause: "Subject, however, to the
provisions of the Act of Congress approved July 1, 1902
(32 Stat. 641)."
That Taylor and the defendants claim title to the land
under that agreement and patent; that the restrictions
imposed upon the alienation of the land were for the
protection and benefit of the members of the tribes; that
Taylor was a full-blood Choctaw Indian and a member
of the Choctaw tribe, did not understand the English
language, was wholly ignorant of land values, was in need
of and entitled to the protection and benefit of the restrictions so imposed; and that such "protection was of great
value and was to him property as much as the land itself."
That the deeds executed by Taylor to Campbell and
Whitehead were in open violation of the restrictions against
alienation in the act of Congress of July 1, 1902, supra,
under which Taylor was allotted the land, and also in
voL. ccxxxix-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1915,
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

violation of the restrictions upon alienation contained in
the patent from the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations
to him and were executed under an unconstitutional act
of Congress approved April 21, 1904, c. 1402, 33 Stat. 189,
204. That the object of that act of Congress and of the
certificate to Taylor was to remove the restrictions upon
the alienation of the land and that they impair the obligation of the contract or binding agreement "upon the
United States and upon the Choctaw and Chickasaw
Nations and upon all Choctaws and Chickasaws," and
especially Selin Taylor, and are repugnant to the act of
Congress under which Taylor was allotted the land, and
also to the Constitution of the United States and the
clause in the Fifth'Amendment thereof which provides that
no person shall be deprived of his property without due
process of law. A cancellation of the deeds was prayed,
the annulment of the interest of Johnson in the land and
the rents thereof, and judgment for the possession of the
land.
A demurrer to the answer was sustained and, defendants
(plaintiffs in error) declining to plead further, a decree
was entered quieting Johnson's title to the land. Upon
appeal the judgment was sustained by the Supreme Court
of the State and error was prosecuted from this court.
The record presents the general question, Was the land
alienable by Taylor? This depends upon the validity of
certificate No. 2458 issued to Taylor and that again on
the validity of the act of Congress of April 21, 1904 (33
Stat. 204). This act removed the restrictions imposed by
the act of July 1, 1902, upon allottees of either of the
Five Civilized Tribes who were not of Indian blood and
provided for the removal by the Secretary of the Interior
of all restrictions upon the alienation of all other allottees
of said tribes (with certain exceptions) upon application
to the Indian agent in charge of such tribes, if the agent
was satisfied upon full investigation of each individual

WILLIAMS v. JOHNSON.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

case that the removal of restrictions was for the interest of
the allottee.
The certificate shows that the application was made by
Taylor, and yet plaintiffs in error assert the invalidity of
both certificate and act because they are, it is contended,
repugnant to the act of Congress of July 1, 1902 (32 Stat.
641), which, it is contended, constituted a contract between the United States and the Choctaw and Chickasaw
Nations and all Choctaws and Chickasaws; that the restriction upon alienation was a protection to Taylor
"against his own inprovidentoacts,V that it was "not a
personal privilege and repealable," but was "an incident
attached to the land itself," and "was to him property as
much as the land itself."
The act of July 1, 1902, is entitled "An Act to Ratify
and Confirm an Agreement with the Choctaw and Chickasaw Tribes of Indians, and for Other Purposes." It
recites that "in consideration of the mutual undertakings
here contained, it is agreed" that (ยง 16, p. 643) all land
shall be alienable after issue of patent in certain quantities
and at certain times "provided that such land shall not
be alienable by the allottee or his heirs at any time before
the expiration of the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribal
governments for less than its appraised value;" that
(ยง 68, p. 656) "no act of Congress or treaty provision, nor
any provision of the Atoka agreement, inconsistent with
this agreement, shall be in force in said Choctaw and
Chickasaw Nations," and, further (ยง 73, p. 657), that
"this agreement shall be binding upon the United States
and upon the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations and all the
Choctaws and Chickasaws, when ratified by Congress and
by a majority of the whole number of votes cast by the
legal voters of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Tribes in the
manner following:
.
It is conceded by plaintiffs in error that an act of Congress can supersede a prior treaty, but they insist that it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 V. S.

well settled "that Congress is without power to change &
contract or agreement for a valuable consideration with
an individual Indian allottee." Choate v. Trapp, 224
U. S. 665, and Jones v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 1, are cited, and
incidentally Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S.
286, and Mullen v. United States, 224 U. S. 448.
The cases do not apply.. It has often been decided that
the Indians are wards of the Nation and that Congress
has plenary control over tribal relations and property and
that this power continues after the Indians are made
citizens, and may be exercised as to restrictions upon
alienation. Tiger v. Western Investment Co., supra.
Against this ruling Choate v. Trapp does not militate. In
the latter case it was decided that taxation could not be
imposed upon allotted land a patent to which was issued
under an act of Congress containing a provision "that the
land should be non-taxable" for a limited time; and, excluding the application of the Tiger Case, it was said,
p. 673, that exemption from taxation" and non-alienability
were two separate and distinct objects." And further,
"On6 conveyed a right and the other imposed a limitation." The power to do the latter was declared, and it
was said "the right to remove the restriction [limitation
upon alienation] was in pursuance of the power under
which Congress could legislate as to the status of the
ward and lengthen or shorten the period of disability.
But the provision that the land should be non-taxable
was a property right, which Congress undoubtedly had
the power to grant. That right fully vested in the Indians
and was binding upon Oklahoma."
Jones v. Meehan, supra, is an instance of the same principle and is not opposed to the power of Congress to remove restrictions upon alienation. And there is nothing
antagonistic to the cited cases in Mullen v. United States,
supra.
A question was intimated in the Tiger Case
whether a

CHI., ROCK ISLAND RY. v. WHITEAKER1.
239 U. S.

421

Statement of the Case.

grantee of an Indian could avail himself of the Indian's
right, if he had any, to assert the unconstitutionality of
an act of Congress, and it is still more questionable
whether plaintiff in error can be heard to urge the rights
of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations. However, we
may reserve opinion. Those nations are not parties to
this suit and no contract rights of Taylor have been
violated.
Judgment affirmed.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. WHITEAKER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 111. Submitted December 6, 1915.-Decided December 20, 1915.
In the absence of bad faith, the motive of the plaintiff in making defendants parties who are jointly liable does not affect the right to
remove the case.
Whether the complaint states a cause of action against the resident
defendant joined with a non-resident defendant, is a matter of state
law.
Where, as in this case, the injured plaintiff had under the law of the
State a right of action against a non-resident railroad company and
also against one of its employ6s who is a resident, he has the right to
join them both as defendants; and the non-resident cannot, in the
absence of showing fraud on the part of the plaintiff, remove the case
as to it into the Federal cdurt.
Merely to traverse the plaintiff's allegations upon which the liability of
resident defendant rests or to apply the' epithet fraudulent to the
joinder is not sufficient-the showing of fraud must compel the conclusion that the joinder was so absolutely without reasonable basis
as to be made in bad faith.
252 Missouri, 439, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of the removal
from the state to the Federal court of a case against joint

