OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Parties.

239 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. BARNOW.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 454. Argued October 18, 1915.-Decided November 8, 1915.

The prohibition in § 32, Criminal Code, against falsely assuming or
pretending to be an officer of the United States or employ6 acting
under its authority is not confined to false personation of some
particular person or class of persons but prohibits any false assumption or pretense of office or employment under the authority of the
United States, or any department or officer of the Government, if

done with intent to defraud, and accompanied with any of the
specified acts done in the pretended character.
The offense under § 32, Criminal Code, is complete on the false personation or pretense, and the demanding or obtaining money as the
result thereof, even if the person defrauded be not financially injured
in consequence thereof.
It is within the power of the United States to prohibit the false personation of its officers or the false assumption of being an officer of
the United States, and legislation to that end does not interfere with,
or encroach upon, the functions of the States, and so held as to § 32,
Criminal Code, construed in this base as including a prohibition of
the false pretense of holding a non-existent office under non-existent
officers of the United States Government.
221 Fed. Rep. 140, reversed.

.

THE

facts which involve the construction of § 32 of the

Criminal Code and the validity of an indictment thereunder and the extent of the jurisdiction of this court under
the Criminal Appeals Act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Solicitor General Davis, with whom Mr. Robert Szold"
was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Daniel Thew Wright, with whom Mr. T. Morris
Wampler and Mr. Henry D. Green were on the brief, for
defendant in error.

UNITED STATES v. BARNOW.
239 U. S.
MR. JUSTICE

Opinion of the Court.

PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is brought here under the Criminal Appeals
Act (c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246), to review a judgment of the
District Court (221 Fed. Rep. 140), sustaining a demurrer
to an indictment founded upon § 32 of the Criminal
Code of March 4, 1909 (c. 321, 35 Stat. 1088, 1095). By
that section these offenses are prohibited:
(1) With intent to defraud either the United States or
any person, the falsely assuming or pretending to be
an officer or employ6 acting under the authority of the
United States, or any department, or any officer of the
Government thereof, and taking upon oneself to act as
such.
(2) With intent to defraud either the United States or
any person, the falsely assuming or pretending to be an
officer or employ6, etc., and in such pretended character demanding or obtaining from any person or from
the United States, or any department, or any officer of
the Government thereof, any money, paper, document,
or other valuable thing.
The indictment contains six counts, of which the first,
third, and fifth are based upon the former, and the second,
fourth, and sixth upon the latter of these prohibitions. The
first count charges that defendant, with intent to defraud
a certain person named, did falsely pretend to be an employ6 of the United States acting under the authority
of the United States, to wit, an agent employed by the
Government to sell a certain set of books entitled "Messages and Papers of Presidents," and did then and there
take upon himself to act as such agent, in that he visited
the person named and falsely pretended to him that he
was such an employ6 of the United States, employed as
aforesaid for the purpose aforesaid. The third and fifth
counts differ only as to the names of the persons mentioned
and the dates of the alleged offenses.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

The second count charges that defendant, with intent
to defraud a certain person named, did falsely pretend
to be an employ6 of the United States acting under the
authority of the United States, to wit, an agent employed
by the Government to sell a certain set of books entitled
"Messages and Papers of Presidents," and in such pretended character did obtain from the person named the
sum of ten dollars, which he would not have given to defendant unless he had supposed him to be an employ6
of the Government, and had supposed that the money was
to be paid over to the Government on account of the subscription price of the books, etc. The fourth and sixth
counts are in like form.
It was and is admitted that there was not in existence
such an employ6 or such an employment as it was alleged
the defendant pretended.
The District Court held that the gist of the offense is
the false personation of an officer or employ6 of the United
States, and in order to constitute such an offense there
must be personation of some particular person or class
of persons, since there cannot be a false personation of a
supposititious individual who never existed or whose class
never existed. Upon this construction of the statute,
all of the counts fell.
We think this is to read the act in too narrow a sense.
Not doubting that a false personation of a particular
officer or employ6 of the Government, or a false pretense
of holding an office or employment that actually exists
in the Government of the United States, is within the
denunciation of § 32, we think it has a broader reach.
No convincing reason is suggested for construing it more
narrowly than the plain import of its language. To
"falsely assume or pretend to be an officer or employ6
acting under the authority of the United States, or any
Department, or any officer of the Government thereof,"
is the thing prohibited. One who falsely assumes or pre-

UNITED STATES v. BARNOW.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tends to hold an office that has a de jure existence is admittedly within its meaning. That is, where the assumption or pretense is false in part but contains a modicum of
truth, the statute is violated. Why should it be deemed
less an offense where the assumption or pretense is entirely false, as where the very office or employment to
which the accused pretends title has no legal or actual
existence? It is insisted that the words next following"shall take upon himself to act as such, or shall in such
pretended character demand or obtain," etc.-indicate
an intent to punish only false personation of existing
officers or employ~s, and not a false representation as to
some supposititious employment by the Government.
But to "take upon himself to act as such" means no more
than to assume to act in the pretended character. It
requires something beyond the false pretense with intent
to defraud; there must be some act in keeping with the
pretense (see People v. Cronin, 80 Michigan, 646); but it
would strain the meaning of the section to hold that the
offender must act as a veritable officer of the Government
would act. And so, in the second branch of the section,
the demanding or obtaining of the thing of value must be
done "in such pretended character '"-words that are far
from importing that the office or employment must be
one that is duly established by law.
It is said that to give to the statute the broader meaning
extends it beyond the limitations that, surround the power
of Congress, and encroaches upon the functions of the
several States to protect their own citizens and residents
from fraud. We are referred to United States v. Fox, 95
U. S. 670, 672, where it was declared by Mr. Justice Field,
speaking for the court: " An act committed within a State,
whether for a good or a bad purpose, or whether with an
honest or a criminal intent, cannot be made an offense
against the United States, unless it have some relation to
the execution of a power of Congress, or to some matter

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

within the jurisdiction of the United States. An act not
having any such relation is one in respect to which the
State can alone legislate." Accepting this criterion, the
legislation now under consideration is well within the
authority of Congress. In order that the vast and complicated operations of the Government of the United
States shall be carried on successfully and with a minimum of friction and obstruction, it is important--or,
at least, Congress reasonably might so consider it-not
only that the authority of the governmental officers and
employ~s be respected in particular cases, but that a
spirit of respect and good-will for the Government and
its officers shall generally prevail. And what could more
directly impair this spirit than to permit unauthorized
and unscrupulous persons to go about the country falsely
assuming, for fraudulent purposes, to be entitled to the
respect and credit due to an officer of the Government?
It is the false pretense of Federal authority that is the
mischief to be cured; of course, only when accompanied
with fraudulent intent, but such a pretense would rarely
be made for benevolent purposes. Now, the mischief is
much the same, and the power of Congress to prevent
it is quite the same, whether the pretender names an
existing or a non-existing office or officer, or, on the other
hand, does not particularize with respect to the office
that he assumes to hold. Obviously, if the statute punished the offense only when an existing office was assumed,
its penalties could be avoided by the easy device of
naming a non-existent office.
Therefore, it seems to us, the statute is to be interpreted according to its plain language as prohibiting any
false assumption or pretense of office or employment under
the authority of the United States, or any Department or
officer of the Government, if done with an intent to defraud, and accompanied with any of the specified acts
done in the pretended character, and the District Court

UNITED STATES v. BARNOW.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

erred in attributing to the Act a more restricted meaning.
We think there was further error in the ruling of the
court that the even-numbered counts must fall for the
reason, as expressed in the opinion, that there was no
allegation to sustain a charge that the person alleged to
be defrauded was deprived of any right, interest, or property, or that he was cheated or overreached. In this the
court followed United States v. Rush, 196 Fed. Rep. 579.
Since our review, under the Criminal Appeals Act, is
confined to passing upon questions of statutory construction, we are not here concerned with the interpretation
placed by the court upon the indictment. United States
v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525, 535, and cases cited. We must,
for present purposes, accept that interpretation, hence
we express no opinion as to whether the District Court
erred in holding that the even-numbered counts did not
allege a consummated fraud. The question with which
we have to deal is whether the second branch of § 32 of
the Criminal Code, upon which the even-numbered counts
are founded, requires that the fraud shall be consummated, with consequent injury to the party defrauded, in
order that the offense shall be complete.
It has been held that in an indictment unter § 5440,
Rev. Stat., for a conspiracy to defraud the Un:ited States,
it is not essential that the conspiracy shall cbntemplate
a financial loss, or that one shall result; an I that the
statute is broad enough to include any conspiracy for the
purpose of impairing, obstructing, or defeating the lawful
function of any Department of the Government. Haas v.
Henkel, 216 U. S. 462, 479. And with respec' to § 5418,
Rev. Stat., prohibiting the forging of any public record
"for the purpose of defrauding the United IStates," a
similar decision was reached. United States v. Plyler,
222 U. S. 15.
Like reasoning, *Ve think, must be applied, to § 32 of

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

the Criminal Code, whether the United States, or "any
person," be the intended victim. If, with intent to defraud, and by falsely assuming or pretending to be an
officer or employ6 acting under the authority of the
United States, the accused shall, in the pretended character, have demanded or obtained any money, paper, document, or other valuable thing, the offense is complete,
notwithstanding some valuable consideration was offered
or given by the pretended employ6 for that which he
demanded or obtained. It is the aim of the section not
merely to protect innocent persons from actual loss
through reliance upon false assumptions of Federal authority, but to maintain the general good repute and dignity of the service itself. It is inconsistent with this
object, as well as with the letter of the statute, to make
the question whether one who has parted with his property upon the strength of a fraudulent representation of
Federal employment, has received an adequate quid pro
quo in value, determinative. Of course, we do not mean
to intimate that it may not in a proper case be taken into
consideration as a circumstance evidential upon the question of intent.
The judgment must be reversed, and the cause re-

manded •for further proceedings in accordance with this
opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

