OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

of state taxes where a plain, adequate and complete
remedy at law has been given to recover back illegal taxes
and the attack upon the assessment is based upon the sole
ground that the same is illegal and void. See Singer
Sewing Machine Co. v. Benedict, 229 U. S. 481, where
many of the previous cases in this court are reviewed.
But in the present case, it was alleged not only that the
assessment was unwarranted by the law, but that the
manner of making the assessment amounted to fraud upon
the constitutional rights of the express companies, or such
gross mistake as would amount to fraud, thus averring a
distinct and well recognized ground of equity jurisdiction.
It also appears that the tax of 1909 had been enjoined
similarly, and that from the decree in that case no appeal
had been taken. Such continuing violation of constitutional rights might afford a ground for equitable relief.
See Cummings v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 153, 157, 158;
Stanley v. Supervisors, 121 U. S. 535, 550; Fargo v. Hart,
193 U. S. 490, 503; Taylor v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 88
Fed. Rep. 350.
We find no error'in the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, and the same is
Affirmed.

O'NEILL v. LEAMER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 33.

Argued October 25, 26, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.

The propriety of delegating authority by the legislature to a court in
. the matter of formation of drainage districts is a state question.
Plaintiffs in error having unsuccessfully contended in the state court
that the appropriation of their property for a drainage ditch was
essentially for a private purpose and hence deprived them of prop-

O'NEILL v. LEAMER.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

erty without due process of law, this court has jurisdiction to review
the judgment under § 237, Judicial Code.
The provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment embody fundamental
conceptions of justice and do not prevent a State from adopting a
public policy to meet special exigencies, such as the irrigation of
arid, and the reclamation of wet, lands; nor does anything in the
Federal Constitution deny to a State the right to formulate such a
policy or to exercise eminent domain to carry it into effect.
The judgment of the state court in determining matters with which it
is peculiarly familiar, buch as necessity for establishing drainage districts, is entitled to the highest respect.
The Statutes of Nebraska of 1905 and 1909 relative to the establishment
of drainage districts and the establishment thereof by the District
Court, and the proceedings thereunder establishing such a district
and appropriating property thereunder by eminent domain and payment of compensation therefor, held not to be unconstitutional as
denying hqual protection of the law to the owner of property taken,
or depriving such owner of property without due process of law, or
as impairing the obligation of any contract, ok as violating any provision of the Fifteenth Amendment.
93 Nebraska, 786, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the Fourteenth Amendment and other provisions of the
Federal Constitution of the Drainage District Law of
Nebraska, and of a tax levied thereunder, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. William V. Allen, with whom Mr. M. D. Tyler
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. R. E. Evans, with whom Mr. A. C. Strong was on
the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
Under the laws of Nebraska (Laws 1905, ch. 161;
Laws 1909, ch. 147; Cobbey, Ann. Stat., §§ 5561-5597;
Rev. Stat. 1913, §§ 1797 et seq.) the District Court of the
State made an order organizing "Drainage District No. 2

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

of Dakota County." The lands embraced within the
district lay to the southeast of the village of Jackson and
consisted of about 7,000 acres of swamp lands upon which
were discharged the waters of Elk Creek coming from the
northwest. It was recited in the order that the drainage of
these lands would be "a public utility" and would "be
conducive to the public convenience, health and welfare." Plans were adopted which involved the construction of a ditch across lands of the plaintiffs in error for
the purpose of carrying the waters of the creek to Jackson
Lake. These were lands which did not receive the flood
waters of the creek but were situated northeast of Jackson
and outside the drainage district. The defendants in error
who had been chosen as supervisors of the drainage district instituted condemnation proceedings in the county
court for the purpose of making the necessary appropriation, and awards were made.
This action was then begun by the plaintiffs in error
(and another) in the state court to enjoin the construction
of the ditch. The plaintiffs assailed the Nebraska statute
as repugnant to the 'state constitution and further averred
that to permit the defendants to construct the ditch would
deprive the plaintiffs of their property without due
process of law and deny to them the equal protection of
the laws in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. It
was alleged that the enterprise was "wholly private and
in the exclusive pecuniary interest of the so-called corporators" of the drainage district. The trial court made
special findings, in substance, as follows: That the drainage district had been legally organized; that the defendants had been constituted its supervisors; that in conformity with the statute the drainage district had been
declared by the District Court, upon due notice to all
interested parties as required, to be a public corporation
of the State; that the district had employed competent
civil engineers who had made a complete plan, which

O'NEILL v. LEAMER.

239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

had been presented and duly confirmed, for draining, reclaiming, and protecting the lands in the district from
overflow; that the route and ditch, thus approved, provided the most feasible and the safest method for taking
care of the waters of the creek; that the description of the
ditch, as shown, was a 'definite and accurate description
of a proper right of way' through the lands of plaintiffs
and others; that having failed to agree with the plaintiffs
as to the value of the right of way and the damages which
would result from the construction and maintenance of
the proposed ditch, the defendants as supervisors had
applied to the county judge in the manner provided by
law for the appointment of appraisers, who having been
duly appointed and having entered upon their duties and
viewed the premises had fixed the value of the right of
way and the damages to each of the plaintiffs at sums
stated and had duly reported accordingly; that the outlet
of the proposed ditch in Jackson Lake was formerly the
channel of the Missouri River at a low stage, and that by
way of this lake there was an adequate and direct outlet
for the water of the creek. into that river without overflowing the plaintiffs' lands; and that the defendants had
not claimed the right to enter upon these lands until the
award of the appraisers should have been paid to the
county judge for the benefit of the parties respectively.
It was thereupon adjudged that when the awards were
paid the temporary injunction which had been issued
should be dissolved and the action dismissed. This
judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State. 93 Nebraska, 786.
With many of the questions discussed in argument this
court is not concerned. It has been held that under the
state law the drainage district was a public corporation,
duly organized, and was entitled to exercise the power of
eminent domain. The propriety of the delegation of
authority to the District Court in the matter of the forma-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

tion of the drainage district is a state question. The attempt to invoke § 4 of Article IV of the Federal Constitution is obviously futile (Pacific Telephone Co. v. Oregon,
223 U. S. 118) and the objection as to suffrage qualifications in connection with the organization and management
of the district, sought to be based on the Fifteenth Amendment, is likewise wholly devoid of substance. It is also
manifest that the State provided a tribunal for the determination of the compensation due to the plaintiffs by
reason of the appropriation in question. Constitution of
Nebraska, Art. I, § 21; Laws of 1905, ch. 161, § 12; Cobbey, Ann. Stat., §§ 10517 et seq.; Rev. Stat. Nebraska,
1913, §§ 5940 et seq. Appraisers were appointed, and the
plaintiffs had due notice of hearing; they had full opportunity to be heard, to present any relevant question, and
to complain of any irregularity or error. The questions
of fact as to the definite location of the ditch, the value of
-the right of way and the extent of the damage to the
property affected which would be sustained through
construction and operation were the subject of determination in an appropriate proceeding.'
See United
With respect to the rights of the plaintiffs under the state law, the
state court said: "The plaintiffs contend that the condemnation proceedings were void because they do not condemn and take certain lands
of the plaintiff O'Neill which would be flooded by the waters of the
ditch. If the plaintiffs' lands, other than those taken by the condemnation proceedings, are damaged by this improvement, the law
affords them a remedy, including the right of appeal to the court of
last resort. The statute provides that 'the same proceedings for condemnation of such right of way shall be had in all other respects, as is
provided by law for the condemnation of rights of way for railroad
corporations, the payment of damages and the rights of appeal shall
be applicable to the drainage ditches and other improvements provided
for in this act.' Section 12. The law is well settled in such case by
many decisions of this court. When the remedy at. law is adequate,
the prosecution of the work cannot be delayed by injunction.
It is objected that the application for condemnation did not describe
and locate the proposed ditch with sufficient accuracy.

.

.

.

The

O'NEILL v. LEAMER.
239 U. S.

6

pinion of the Court.

States v. Jones, 109 U. S. 513, 519; Backus v. Fort Street
Union Depot Co., 169 U. S. 557, 568, 569; Hooker v. Los
Angeles, 188 U. S. 314, 318; Appleby v. Buffalo, 221 U. S.
524, 532; McGovern v. New York, 229 U. S. 363, 370, 371.
It is said that no notice to the plaintiffs was required or
given of the application for the appointment of appraisers.
As to this, however, no question of Federal right appears
to have been raised or decided in the Supreme Court of
the State, nor do we intimate that such a claim would
have had basis, if made. It is plain that with respect to
none of these matters is there any question for our review.
Appleby v. Buffalo, 221 U. S. 524, 529.
The defendants in error have moved to dismiss upon the
ground that there is no Federal question whatever presented by the record. But we think that the plaintiffs
sufficiently raised the question whether the appropriation
was essentially for a private purpose and hence contrary
to the Fourteenth Amendment as amounting to a deprivation of property without due process of law, and that
their contention as to their Federal right in this respect
was denied by the state court. In this view, jurisdiction attaches (Missouri Pacific Railway v. Nebraska, 164
U. S. 403, 417; Madisonville Traction Co. v. Saint Bernard
Mining Co., 196 U. S. 239, 251, 252; Clark v. Nash, 198
U. S. 361; Strickley v. Highland Boy Gold Mining Co., 200
drawings, which the appraisers had, showed the exact location of the
proposed ditch. There is nothing to indicate that the appraisement
of damages was in any way affected by any supposed uncertainty as
to the location. The county court had power to correct any irregularities in the method of appraisement. If by reason of the difference
in the statute from that construed in Trester v. Missouri P. R. Co., 33
Nebraska, 171, that case is not to be regarded as decisive of the case
at bar upon this point, which we do not decide, it seems clear that the
application was sufficiently definite to give the county court jurisdiction
of the proceedings. Errors, if any, not affecting the jurisdiction of the
court should have been corrected in that court or upon appeal." 93
Nebraska, pp. 789, 790.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

U. S. 527; Offie'ld v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R., 203 U. S.
372, 377; Hairston v. Danville & Western Railway, 208
U. S. 598, 605, 606; Union Lime Co. v. Chicago & N. W.
Rwy., 233 U. S. 211, 218) and we pass to the consideration
of the statutory plan.
The provisions of the statute are elaborate but the
principal features may be briefly outlined. In a proceeding
initiated by a majority in interest of the owners 'in any
contiguous body of swamp or overflowed lands,' for the
purpose of having such land reclaimed and protected from
the effects of water, the District Court for the proper
county may declare the drainage district as defined to
be a public corporation of the State. To this end, the
initiating proprietors must file articles of association, giving the name of the proposed district, the number of years
it is to continue, its extent which must not be less than
160 acres, and an appropriate description of parcels and
owners. Provision is made for summons to non-signing
owners of lands averred to be benefited and for the hearing
of objections to the organization. Property not benefited
may
be excluded fr6m the district. If the organization is
approved
by the court, the clerk within a time specified
is
to call a meeting of the owners of the lands within the
district for the election of a board of five supervisors to be
composed of such proprietors and a majority of whom
must be resident within the county or counties in which
the district is situated; each owner is to have one vote
for each acre owned. Under the direction of this board,
which has defined authority and compensation, a topographical survey is to be made of the district, the various
tracts and properties are to be classified according to
benefits, which are to be assessed, and each parcel within
the district is to bear its share of the entire cost and expenses incurred in making the improvements in proportion
to benefits. A drain commissioner is to be appointed who,
subject to the board's control, is to have general superin-

O'NEILL v. LEAMER.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tendence of works under contracts awarded. If it appears
that lands not embraced within the district will be benefited, proceedings may be had to bring them in. Condemnation of lands, easements, or franchises, within or
without the district for the purpose of constructing the
necessary ditches, dykes, etc., may be had. Provision
is made for the hearing of objections to the proposed
classification and assessments, and aggrieved objectors
may appeal from the decision of the board of supervisors
to the District Court. Tax levies upon the properties
assessed are provided for, and the board is authorized to
issue bonds of the district under stated conditions. Any
person owning lands within the district which is separated
from the ditch or watercourse for which it has been
assessed may secure access to it across intervening lands
by resort to a described proceeding. The treasurer of the
county in which the district, or the largest part of it, is.
situated is made 'ex officio treasurer' of the district for
the purpose of collecting And disbursing the taxe-s or
assessments laid under the act.
The plaintiffs in error contend that the plan is simply
one for the private advantage of the property owners and
they direct special attention to the provision of the statute
that the fact that the district is to contain 160 acres or
more of wet or overflowed lands shall be sufficient cause
for declaring the 'public utility' of the improvement. But
we do not find that the Supreme Court of the State has
sustained the act as applicable to any case in which it
was considered upon a judicial examination of the facts
that the undertaking served private interests alone. On
the contrary, we assume it to be the law of Nebraska that
property may be taken in the furtherance of reclamation
projects only where it is found that the public welfare is
involved. Acts with a different purpose have been held
unconstitutional. Jenal v. Green Island Draining Co., 12
Nebraska, 163; Welton v. Dickson, 38 Nebraska, 767.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

With respect to the act here in question the state court
has emphatically declared that the enterprises which it
contemplates are those distinctly of a public character.
In Drainage District No. 1 v. Richardson County, 86
Nebraska, 355, where the county was required to contribute on account of special benefits accruing to its highways within a drainage district organized under the statute, the Supreme Court of Nebraska said upon this point:
"That question was decided by this court in the case of
Neal v. Vansickle, 72 Nebraska, 105. It was there said:
'That the districts contemplated by the act are intended
to be of a purely public and administrative character,
is evident as well from the title as from the body of the
law itself. Its officers are chosen by popular election and
their powers, duties, compensation and terms of service
are prescribed by the statute. The sources of its income
are predetermined as are also the uses to which it may be
applied, and the county treasurer is made the custodian of
its funds, and his disbursement of them regulated as in
case of other public moneys. In our opinion, it is too
late in the day to contend that the irrigation of arid lands,
the straightening and improvement of watercourses, the
building of levees and the draining of swamp and overflowed lands for the improvement of the health and comfort of the community, and the reclamation of waste places
and the promotion of agriculture, are not all and every of
them subjects of general and public concern, the promotion and regulation of which are among the most important
of governmental powers, duties and functions.' .
We see no reason at this time to depart from that opinion,
and therefore this contention must be considered fore
closed so far as this court is concerned."
See also Barnes v. Minor, 80 Nebraska, 189; State v.
Hanson, 80 Nebraska, 724, 742. These decisions were
deemed to be controlling in the present case. 93 Nebraska,
pp. 788, 789.

O'NEILL v. LEAMER.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We find no ground for a contrary view as to the nature
of the authorized enterprise. We have repeatedly said
that the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment, embodying fundamental conceptions of justice, cannot be
deemed to prevent a State from adopting a public policy
for the irrigation of arid lands or for, the reclamation of
wet or over-flowed lands. States may take account of
their special exigencies, and when the extent of their arid
or wet lands is such that a plan for irrigation or reclamation according to districts may fairly be regarded as one
which promotes the public interest, there is nothing in
the Federal Constitution which denies to them the right
to formulate this policy or to exercise the power of eminent
domain in carrying it into effect. With the local situation
the state court is peculiarly familiar and its judgment is
entitled to the highest respect. Clark v. Nash, supra;
Strickley v. Highland Boy Mining Co., supra; Hairston
v. Danville & Western Rwy., supra; Union Lime Co. v.
Chicago & Northwestern Rwy., supra. It has been held
that it is not necessary that the state power should
rest simply upon the ground that the undertaking is
needed for the public health; there are manifestly other
considerations of public advantage in providing a general
plan of reclamation by which wet lands throughout the
State maybe opened to profitable use. Fallbrook Irrigation District v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 163. Nor is the
statutory scheme to be condemned because it contemplates improvements in districts. Drainage districts
may be established as well as school districts. All
lands within the established district which require
drainage are to enjoy the benefits of the plan. See 2
Lewis on Eminent Domain, 3d ed., p. 571. Nor is
it an objection that private property within the district,
which is established in execution of the public policy,
will be benefited; and it is clearly not improper that
the cost and expense should be. apportioned according

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

to benefits. Fallbrook Irrigation District v. -Bradley,
supra.
In the present instance, the record shows that the drainage district, as organized, embraces a large area with
many proprietors, and that, after contest in the original
proceeding, the District Court made its deliberate order
that the enterprise would be a public utility and conducive
to the 'public eonvenience health and welfare.' Nothing
appears to warrant a different conclusion. Neither in the
statutory provisions as construed by the state court nor
in their application in the particular case is there basis
for finding that the plaintiffs in error have been deprived
of their property without due process of law. Rather must
it be said that the ruling as to the authority of the State
to make the condemnation for the described purpose has,
from the standpoint of the Federal Constitution, abundant
support in the decisions of this court. Wurts v. Hoagland,
114 U. S. 606; Fallbrook Irrigation District v' Bradley,
8upra; Clark v. Nash, supra; Strickley v. Highland Boy

Mining Co., supra.
judgment affirmed.

HOUCK v. LITTLE RIVER DRAINAGE DISTRICT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 35. Argued October 27, 28, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.
So far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, a State may defray
the entire expense of creating, developing and improving a political
subdivision from state funds raised by general taxation--or it may
apportion the burden among the municipalities in which the improvements are made-or it may create tax districts to meet authorized outlays.
The State may, so far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, create

