OCTOBER TEIM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

CHRISTIANSON v. KING COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 67. Argued November 9, 10, 1915.--Decided December 13, 1915.
Where it sufficiently appears from the bill that jurisdiction does not
depend solely on diverse citizenship, but the controversy involves
the construction of an act of Congress, the decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is not final, but an appeal lies to this court under
§ 241, Judicial Code.
As an organized political division of the United States, a Territory
possesses only such powers as Congress confers upon it, and the
legislature of a Territory cannot provide for escheat unless such
provision is within the grant of authority.
A statutory authority to a Territory to legislate upon all rightful subjects of legislation includes the right to provide by legislation for
escheat for failure of heirs; and so held as to authority given by the
Organic Act of Washington Territory.
The prohibition in the Organic Act of Washington of 1853 against
interference with the primary disposal of the soil had reference to the
disposition of public lands of the United States, and did not limit the
right of the Territory to legislate in regard to the escheat of private
property for failure of heirs.
Subject to the general scheme of local Government, defined by the
Organic Act and the special provisions it contains, and the right of
Congress to revise, alter and revoke, the territorial legislatures have
generally been entrusted with the enactment of the entire systems
of municipal law of the respective Territories of the United States.
Escheat for failure of heirs has always been a familiar subject of legislation in the American commonwealths.
In determining the extent of the power to legislate delegated by Congress to a Territory under the Organic Acts, and the validity of a
series of acts of the territorial legislature, it is significant if none of
such acts asserting legislative power during the entire period until
Statehood were ever disapproved by Congress.
Provisions for escheat for failure of heirs have proper relation to matters embraced in a law establishing probate courts and deffing, their
jurisdiction; and so held that such provisions in the statutes of

CHRISTIANSON v. KING COUNTY.
239 U. S.

367

Statement of the Case.

Washington Territory are not invalid because the title bf the probate act was not broad enough to cover escheats.
After reviewing the statutes of Washington Territory in regard to
jurisdiction of probate courts, held that the decree of the probate
court involved in this case decreeing that the property of the intestate escheat to the county for failure of heirs was within its jurisdiction and the decree properly disposed of the property.
Where the legislature has authority to establish its rule as to escheat,
it also has power to suitably provide for the tribunals having jurisdiction, and the procedure for determining whether the rule is
applicable in particular cases; and if other proceedings are established, office found is not necessary to effect an escheat.
Under the law of the Territory of Washington the property involved
in this case escheated to the county in which it was situated.
The proceedings in the Probate Court terminating in a decree that the
property of the intestate escheat to the county for failure of heirs
being in accord with valid laws of the Territory even though informal, the decree was not void or subject to collateral attack.
The decree of the Probate Court attacked in this case having been
entered in a proceeding in rem properly conducted with notice and
opportunity to parties interested to appear, there was no deprivation
of property without due process of law.
Where a court of competent jurisdiction in a proceeding in rem under a
valid statute determines that there are no heirs to an intestate, the
decree binds all the world, including heirs who failed to appear.
203 Fed. Rep. 894.

THIS is a suit, brought in 1911, to recover lands in the
City of Seattle, County of King, State of Washington and
to quiet title. (See R. & B. Code, Washington, § 785.)
The plaintiff claimed title as heir, and grantee of other
heirs, of Lars Torgerson Grotnes who died intestate in the
County of King, Territory of Washington, in March, 1865.
The defendant, the County of King, succeeded the County
of King of the Territory which had control of the property
pursuant to a decree of escheat which was passed by the
Probate Court in May, 1869. The legislature of the
Territory had provided that in case of the death of an
intestate leaving no. kindred his estate should escheat to
the county in which it was situated. Washington Laws;

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

239 U. S.

1862-3, p. 262. Demurrer was filed to the amended complaint on the grounds (among others) that the complaint
did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
and that the action had not been commenced within the
time limited by law. The demurrer was sustained and
judgment dismissing the complaint was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 203 Fed. Rep. 894.
After alleging title in fee in Lars Torgerson Grotnes, and
the fact that he had acquired the land under the name
of John Thompson (having changed his name to conceal
his identity) through certain mesne conveyances from a
grantee of the United States, the amended complaint set
forth in detail the proceedings in the Probate Court, which
may be summarized as follows: That on March 26, 1865,
the Probate Court, upon an informal request of H. L.
Yesler and J. Williamson, assumed to appoint Daniel
Bagley administrator of the estate of John Thompson,
deceased, the order reciting that the decedent had died in
the county, intestate, leaving property subject to administration; that after certain intermediate proceedings the
administrator presented his petition on February 12, 1869,
stating that no heirs at law had been found after diligent
search, and praying that the administrator might be discharged and that after due notice the estate might be
turned over to the county or such further order made as
might be meet; and that on May 26, 1869, after publication of notice for four weeks in a local newspaper, a final
decree of distribution was entered whieh recited the proceedings and continued as follows:
"That said decedent died intestate in the County of
King, Washington Territory, on the - day of March,
A. D. 1865, leaving no heirs surviving him;
"There being no heirs of said decedent, that the entire
estate escheat to the County of King, in Washington
Territory.

CHRISTIANSON v. KING COUNTY.
239 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"Now on this 26th day of May, A. D. 1869, on motion
of said Daniel Bagley, administrator of said estate, and no
exceptions or objections being filed or made by any person
interested in the said estate or otherwise;
"It is hereby ordered, adjudged and decreed: that all
the acts and proceedings of said administrator, as reported by this Court and as appearing upon the records
thereof, be and the same are hereby approved and confirmed; and that after deducting said estimated expenses of
closing the administration, the residue of said estate of
John Thompson, deceased, not heretofore distributed,
hereinafter particularly described, and now remaining in
the hands of said administrator, and any other property
not now known or discovered which may belong to the
said estate, or in which the said estate may have any
interest, be and the same is hereby distributed as follows,
to-wit: The entire estate .to the County of King, in
Washington Territory.
"The following is a particular description of the said
,residue of said estate referred to in this decree, and of which
distribution is ordered, adjudged and decreed, to-wit:
"1st. Cash, to-wit: $343.83 gold coin.
"2nd. And real estate, to-wit: One hundred and sixty
acres of land on Duwamish River, in King County, W. T.,
more particularly described in a certain deed from Joseph
Williamson and William Greenfield to John Thompson,
dated January 19th, A. D. 1865, and recorded in Volume 1
of the records of King County, W. T., on pages 458, 459
and 460.
"Third. A lease of said land to John Martin, dated
March 5th, 1866, on which the entire rent reserved remains due and unpaid.
"Dated May 26th, 1869."
It was alleged that this decree was null and void, that
the Probate Court was wholly without jurisdiction to pass

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

239 U. S.

upon the title to the land described or to declare it escheated; that all claims to the land by defendant, and all
its acts relating thereto, had been under this assailed decree, and that the defendant had no instrument or judgment purporting to evidence any title in-it; that neither
the defendant nor any other authority had instituted any
suit or proceeding before any tribunal for the purpose of
having an escheat declared or its claim of title confirmed.
The acts of the county in relation to the land were set forth,
the tracts involved being described as the 'King County
Farm,' 'King County Hospital Grounds,' 'King County
Addition to the City of Seattle,' and 'King County 2nd
Addition to the City of Seattle.' The plaintiff did not
seek to recover the lands which had been appropriated
for railroad rights of way or highways, or that portion
which had been sold to innocent purchasers, and it was
also conceded that the county might retain the buildings
and tangible betterments which it had placed upon the
land, as stated.
At the outset, aftek alleging that the plaintiff was a
subject of the King of Norway and that the matter in dispute exceeded in value the sum of $300,000, the amended
complaint set forth that the controversy involved the
construction of Amendments V and XIV of the Constitution of the United States, and of §§ 1851, 1907 and 1924
of the Revised Statutes of the United States relating
to the Territory of Washington.
It was further stated that the heirs of the decedent had
no knowledge of his whereabouts or death until three
years prior to the beginning of the action, and that the
heirs, and particularly the plaintiff, had been diligent
since receiving this information in. searching for the
proofs of the decedent's identity and of their relation-

ship.
Mr. Edward Judd, with whom Mr. Litdngston B.

CHRISTIANSON v. KING COUNTY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Stedman and Mr. S. S. Langland were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error:
No estoppel or laches were shown.
The county never acquired title by escheat.
The Territory was not a sovereign.
The organic law conveyed no property rights of United
States to the Territory.
The territorial escheat act trenched upon the primary
disposal of the soil by the United States and the act did
not fit its title.
There was never any office found.
The territorial probate court proceedings were void;
the organic law did not give jurisdiction to the Probate
Court.
The organic law forbade interference with the primary
disposal of the soil.
The territorial probate act did not cover escheats.
The probate proceedings were informal and insufficient.
The probate proceedings were not due process of law.
The statute of limitations does not apply.
The county took the property for public use without
making compensation.
The county's possession was ultra vires.
The county's possession recognized the title of the heirs.
The county had no claim of right nor color of title.
Mr. Robert H. Evans, with whom Mr. Alfred H. Lundin
and Mr. John F. Murphy were on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR. JusTIcE HUGHS, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The motion to dismiss must be denied. It sufficiently
appears from the amended bill that jurisdiction did not
depend solely upon the citizenship of the respective

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

parties but that the controversy involved, with other
questions, the construction of the act of Congress prescribing the authority of the territorial legislature. In
this view, the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
not final. Vicksburg v. Henson, 231 U. S. 259, 267.
The plaintiff in error contends that the land in question did not escheat to the County of King, Territory of
Washington, for the reasons (1) that the Territory was
not a sovereign, but a municipal corporation, (2) that the
organic law of the Territory conveyed to it no property
rights of the United States, (3) that the act of the territorial legislature providing for escheat to counties was
forbidden by the organic law, (4) that this legislative act
was invalid because its title was not broad enough to
cover the subject-matter, and (5) that there was never
any office found.
There is, of course, no dispute as to the sovereignty of
the United States over the Territory of Washington or as
to the consequent control of Congress. As an organized
political division, the Territory possessed only the powers
which Congress had conferred and hence the territorial
legislature could not provide for escheat unless such provision was within the granted authority. Sere v. Pitot, 6
Cranch, 332, 337; American Ins. Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet.
511, 543; National Bank v. Yankton County, .101 U. S.
129, 133. The Organic Act (March 2, 1853; 10 Stat.
172, 175; see Rev. Stat., §§ 1851, 1924) provided as follows:
"SEc. 6. . . . That the Legislative power of the
Territory shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation
not inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the
United States. But no law shall be passed interfering with
* the primary disposal of the soil; no tax shall be imposed
upon the property of the United States; nor shall the
lands or other property of non-residents be taxed higher
than the lands or other property of residents. All the

CHRISTIANSON v. KING COUNTY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

laws passed by the Legislative Assembly shall be submitted
to the Congress of the United States, and, if disapproved,
shall be null and of no effect: Provided, That nothing in
this act shall be construed to give power to incorporate
a bank or any institution with banking powers, or to
borrow money in the name of the Territory, or to pledge
the faith of the people of the same for any loan whatever,
directly or indirectly. No charter granting any privileges
of making, issuing, or putting into circulation any notes
or bills in the likeness of bank-notes, or any bonds, scrip,
drafts, bills of exchange, or obligations, or granting any
other banking powers or privileges, shall be passed by the
Legislative Assembly; nor shall the establishment of any
branch or agency of any such corporation, derived from
other authority, be allowed in said Territory; nor shall
said Legislative Assembly authorize the issue of any
obligation, scrip, or evidence of debt, by said Territory,
in any mode or manner whatever, except certificates for
service to said Territory. And all such laws, or any law
or laws inconsistent with the provisions of this act, shall
be utterly null and void. And all taxes shall be equal
and uniform; and no distinctions shall be made in the
assessments between different kinds of property, but the
assessments shall be according to the value thereof. To
avoid improper influences, which may result from intermixing in one and the same act such things as have no
proper relation to each other, every law shall embrace
but one object, and that shall be expressed in the title."
This manifestly was not a grant of the property of the
United States, but it was an authority which extended to
"all rightful subjects" of legislation save as it was limited
by the essential requirement of conformity to the Constitution and laws of the United States and by the restrictions
imposed. The prohibition against interference "with the
primary disposal of the soil" defined a limitation which
had been established from 'the beginning in organizing

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

territorial governments. This provision was found in
the Ordinance passed by the Congress of the Confederation, April 23, 1784, for the government of the Western
Territory (Amer. Cong., Pub. Journals, Vol. 4,1782-1788,
p. 379) and it was reenacted in the superseding Ordinance
of 1787 (Art. IV, 1 Stat. 52, note). It was incorporated
either by appropriate reference I or by express statement 2
in the organic acts of the Territories, and it was continued
in substantially the same words in many of the enabling
acts under which States were admitted to the Union.A
For example, when Wisconsin was admitted, it was stipulated as a condition (9 Stat. 58) that the State should
"never interfere with the primary disposal of the soil
within the same by the United States," a condition which
had its exact equivalent in the provision of other enabling
acts that the States should "never interfere with the
primary disposal of the public lands" lying within them.
(Arkansas, 5 Stat. 51; Iowa, Florida, Id. 743; California,
9 Stat. 452.) The restriction had reference to the disposition of the public lands of the United States, and, neither
as to State nor as to Territory did these words purport
to limit the legislative power, otherwise duly exercised,
where property had passed into private ownership- and
there was no interference with the exclusive authority of
Congress in dealing with the public domain. Carroll v.
Safford, 3 How. 441, 461; Witherspoon v. Duncan, 4 Wall.
210, 218; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151, 164,
1 Territory south of the Ohio, 1 Stat. 123; Mississippi, Id. 549;
Indiana; 2 Stat. 58; Michigan, Id. 309; Illinois, Id. 514; Alabama, 3
Stat. 371.
2 E. g., Territory of Orleans, 2 Stat. 284; Missouri, Id. 747; Florida,
3 Stat. 655; Wisconsin, 5 Stat. 13; Iowa, Id. 237; Oregon, 9 Stat. 325;
Minnesota, Id. 405; New Mexico, Id. 449; Utah, Id. 454.
E. g., Missouri, 3 Stat. 547; Arkansas, 5 Stat. 51; Iowa, Florida,
Id. 743; California, 9 Stat. 452; Wisconsin, 9 Stat. 58; Kansas, 12

Stat. 127.

CHRISTIANSON v. KING COUNTY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

165; Crane v. Reeder, 21 Michigan, 24, 74; Oury v. Goodwin, 3 Arizona, 255, 260; Topeka Co. v. McPherson,7 Oklahoma, 332, 338-340. So far as 'the primary disposal of
the soil' was concerned, provision for escheat on the death
of an owner in fee without heirs could not be deemed to
be an interference, whether the provision was enacted by
a Territory or by a State.
The scope of the authority conferred upon territorial
governments has frequently been described. Subject to
the general scheme of local government defined by the
organic act, and the special provisions it contains, and subject also to the right of Congress 'to revise, alter and revoke at'its discretion,' the local legislature has generally
been entrusted 'with the enactment of the entire system
of municipal law.' Hornbuckle v. Toombs, 18 Wall. 648,
655. 'Rightful subjects' of legislation, except as otherwise provided, included all those subjects upon which
legislatures had been accustomed to act. Maynard v.
Hill, 125 U. S. 190, 204; Clinton v. Englebrecht, 13 Wall.
434, 442; Cope v. Cope, 137 U. S. 682, 684; Walker v.
Southern Pacific R. R., 165 U. S. 593, 604. Unquestionably, authority was granted to the Territory to legislate with respect to the devolution of real property on the
death of the owner. Thus in Cope v. Cope, supra, where
the validity of an act of the territorial legislature of Utah
permitting inheritance by illegitimate children was sustained, it was said by the court, after referring to the
restrictions of the Organic Act: "With the exceptions
noted in this section, the power of the territorial legislature was apparently as plenary as that of the Legislature
of a State. Maynard v. Hill, 125 U. S. 204. The distribution of and the right of succession to the estates of
deceased persons are matters exclusively of state cognizance, and are such as were within the competence of the
territorial legislature to deal with as it saw fit, in the
absence of an inhibition by Congress." Escheat on failure

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

of heirs was a familiar subject of legislation in the American
Commonwealths. The rule of the common law in this respect, as in others, was subject to modification, and adaptation to local conditions was essentially a matter of legislative policy. In the case of the Territories, Congress
could have dealt with this subject if it chose, but it did not
see fit to establish a rule of its own. The matter, however,
remained a 'rightful subject' of legislation and Congress
did not except it from the broad grant of legislative power.
Assuming that it had authority, the Legislative Assembly
of the Territory of Washington at its first session provided
in its article on "Descent of Real Estate" that "if the
intestate shall leave no kindred, his estate shall escheat to
the Territory." Statutes of Washington Territory, 1854,
p. 306. Similar provision was made in the case of personalty. Id., p. 308. In 1860, it was enacted that if the intestate should leave no kindred his real estate should escheat
to the county in which it was. situated and his personal
estate to the county in which the administration was had.
Washington Laws, 1859-60, pp. 222, 224. These provixons were reinacted in the "Probate Practice Act" of
1863. Washington Laws, 1862-3, pp. 262, 265. By the
Code of 1881, the estate on failure of heirs was to escheat
to the Territory "for the support of the common schools"
in the county in which the decedent resided or where the
estate was situated. Section 3302, Eighth. It is significant that these acts, thus asserting the legislative power
from the time of the organization of the Territory until
it became a State, were never disapproved by Congress.
It is urged that to sustain the legislative authority to
enact legislation of this character would be contrary to the
principles declared in the case of the Mormon Church v.
United States, 136 U. S. 1. But this contention is without
basis. In that case, the suit was brought pursuant to an
actof Congress and it was pointed out that Congress had
expressly declared in the earlier act of 1862 that all real

CHRISTIANSON v. KING COUNTY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

estate acquired by the corporation contrary to its provisions should "be forfeited and escheat to the United
States." Id., p. 47. Our attention is also directed to
statements in the opinions in Williams v. Wilson, 1 Martin
& Yerger, 248, 252, and Etheridge v. Doe, 18 Alabama,
565, 574, but neither of these cases involved the question
of the validity of territorial legislation for escheat. In
Lee v. Territory, 2 Montana, 124, the act of the Territory
by which it was attempted to forfeit placer mines held by
aliens was declared to be invalid, but the controlling consideration was that its provisions were repugnant to the
authority and action of Congress with respect to the disposition of the public lands. See also King v. Ware, 4
Northwestern, 858, 860. On the other hand, in Crane v.
Reeder, 21 Michigan, 24, 76, the legislation of the Territory
of Michigan providing for escheat on failure of lawful
heirs was found not to be in conflict with the Ordinance
of 1787 or with any act of Congress. And, so far as the
question has been considered with regard to the Territory
of Washington, the authQrity of the legislature has been
upheld. Pacific Bank v. Hannah, 90 Fed. Rep. 72, 79; see
Territory v. Klee, 1 Washington, 183, 188.
It is also objected that the title of the act here involved
was not sufficient under the last provision of § 6 of the
Organic Act above quoted. (Rev. Stat., § 1924.) The
statute under which the proceeding was had was entitled "An Act defining the Jurisdiction and Practice iri
the Probate Courts of Washington Territory." Washington Laws, 1862-3, p. 198. It covered the whole subject
of probate practice, of wills, of descent, and of distribution. We are of the opinion that the matter of escheat for
failure of heirs did have "proper relation" to the other
matters embraced in the statute, and that the object was
adequately expressed in the title within the meaning of the
organic law. The objection that there was no 'office
found' is not substantial, save as it may be deemed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

raise the question whether there was compliance with
the territorial legislation which we shall presently consider.
If the legislature had authority to establish its rule as to
escheat, it was also competent for it suitably to provide
as to the tribunal which should have jurisdiction and the
procedure for determining whether the rule was applicable
in a particular case. Hamilton v. Brown, 161 U. S. 256,
263.
Concluding that escheat in the case of death of an
owner without heirs was a rightful subject of legislation
within the meaning of the. Organic Act-not inconsistent
with the Constitution and laws of the 'United States and
not embraced within the stated exceptions-and that the
provision in the Probate Practice Act was a valid exercise
of the authority thus granted, we are brought to the question as to the jurisdiction of the Probate Court to enter the
decree set forth in the amended complaint, and as to the
effect of that decree.
Section 9 of the Organic Act (10 Stat. 175; see Rev.
Stat., § 1907) provided that the 'judicial power' of the
Territory should be vested 'in a supreme court, district
courts, probate courts, and in justices of the peace,' and
that the jurisdiction of these courts, including the probate
courts, should be 'as limited by law.' The territorial
legislature, having the power to define the jurisdiction
of the probate' courts, \provided in the act which was in
force at the time of the proceedings in ,question that these
courts should have original jurisdiction within their respective counties over probate proceedings, the granting of
letters testamentary and of administration, and the settlement of accounts of executors and administrators (Probate Practice Act of January 16, 1863, § 3; Washington
Laws, 1862-3, p. 199). On qualification, an administrator
was entitled fo the immediate possession of the real estate
as well as of the personal estate of the deceased, and to
receive the rents and profits until the estate was settled

CHRISTIANSON v. KING COUNTY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or delivered over by order of the Probate Court to the
heirs or devisees (Id., § 165, p. 228). At any time subsequent to the second term of the Probate Court after the
issue of letters, any heir might present his petition to the
court asking for his share of the estate (Id., § 309, p. 256);
and the act contained the following express provisions for
distribution, which related to. both real and personal
property:
"Sec. 317. Upon the settlement of the accounts of the
executor or administrator, or at any subsequent time, upon
the application of the executor or administrator, or any
heir, devisee or legatee, the court shall proceed to distribute
the residue of the estate, if any, among the persons who are
by law entitled.
"Sec. 318. In the decree the court shall name the person
and the portion; or parts to which each shall be entitled;
and such persons shall have the right to demand and recover their respective sharies from the executor or a~iministrator, or any person having the same in possession."
Those 'by law entitled' to the real estate were described
in § 340 1 (Id., pp. 261, 262) which gave the order of taking
This section provided:
"SEc. 340. When any person shall die seized of any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, or any right thereto, or entitled to any interest therein, in fee simple, or for the life of another, not having lawfully devised the same, they shall descend, subject to his debts, as
follows:
"1st. In equal shares to his children, and to the issue of any deceased child, by right of representation, and if there be no child of the
intestate living at the time of his death, his estate shall descend to all
his other lineal descendants; and if all the same descendants are in the
same degree of kindred to the intestate, they shall have the estate
equally, otherwise they shall take according to representation.
"2d. If he shall leave no issue, his estate shall descend to his father."
(Then follow paragraphs 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th with respect to
kindred of different degrees.)
"8th. If the intestate shall leave no kindred, his estate shall escheat
to the county in which such estate may be situate."

VOL. ccXxxix-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

according to relationship and in the last paragraph provided for escheat to the county if there were no kindred.
It does not seem to be disputed, that under this act, if
proceedings in a probate court were properly initiated,
that court would have jurisdiction to enter a decree determining the interests of heirs and distributing the real
estate to those of the kindred, if any, who were found to be
entitled to take as provided in this section. This jurisdiction formerly exercised by the probate courts of the
Territory has been continued in the superior courts of the
State, sitting in probate. R. & B. Code, Washington,
§ 1587 et seq. See Stewart v. Lohr, 1 Washington, 341,
342; Balch v. Smith, 4 Washington, 497, 500, 502; Hazelton
v. Bogardus, 8 Washington, 102, 103; In re Sullivan's
Estate, 48 Washington, 631; In re Ostlund's Estate, 57
Washington, 359, 364, 366. Speaking of the essential
nature of this proceeding for distribution and describing
the decree if rendered upon due process of law as final and
conclusive, the court said in the case of Ostlund's Estate,
supra: "Its very object and purpose is to judicially determine who takes the property left by the deceased." See
also Alaska Banking Co. v. Noyes, 64 Washington, 672,
676; McDowell v. Beckham, 72 Washington, 224, 227;
Krohn v. Hirsch, 81 Washington, 222, 226. But it is contended that the County, asserting escheat, did not claim
as successor to the decedent; that the jurisdiction of the
Probate Court ceased as soon as it ascertained that there
were no heirs, and that it had no power to declare the
escheat and decree distribution to the County. We cannot accede to this view. It is not the case, in a proper
sense, of an attempt to determine the title of third persons,
that is, of adverse claimants. Stewart v. Lohr, supra.
The provision, for escheat to the county in case the intestate left no kindred was a part of the scheme of distribution defined by the act and we cannot doubt that not only
had the court the power to determine the interests of the

CHRISTIANSON v. KING COUNTY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

heirs in the real estate to be distributed, but it likewise had
the power to determine whether there were heirs and if it
was found that there were none to decree distribution
according to the statute.
It is insisted that § 480'of the Civil Practice Act of 1854
(p. 218) prescribed the procedure in relation to escheats;
that is, it provided for the filing of an information by the
prosecuting attorney in the District Court and for proceedings like those in civil action for the recovery of prop-.
erty. This section applied whenever property should
"escheat or be forfeited to the territory," but in 1860, the
Civil Practice Act of 1854 was repealed (§ 500, Washington Laws, 1859-60, p. 103), and in the provision which
corresponded to § 480 of the former act the word 'escheat'
was struck out (§ 472, p. 98). In the Civil Practice Act of
1863, this provision, without the reference to escheat, was
continued (§ 519, Washington Laws, 1862-3, p. 192) and
it is found in 'the same form in the Code of 1881 (§ 713).
It appears that from 1863 to the year 1907 (see R. & B.
Code, § 1356) there was no provision in the laws of either
the Territory or the State in relation to escheat, save those
found in the Probate Practice Acts; and the act of 1907 did
not disturb the. jurisdiction of the court which had the
administration of the estate. Referring to this, it is stated
by the district judge that "the probate courts of the
Territory and the superior courts of the State have uniformly assumed jurisdiction in this class of cases, and the
right of the State or county to appear in the probate proceeding and contest the rights of other claimants has been
recognized by the highest court of the State." 196 Fed.
Rep., p. 799, citing In re Sullivan's Estate, 48 Washington,
631. See also Helm v. Johnson, 40 Washington, 420, 421.
Deeming it to be clear that the Probate Court had jurisdiction to declare an escheat and to distribute the real
property to the county when it was found that the intestate had left no kindred (Probate Practice Act, 1863,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

230 U. S.

§§ 317, 318, 340, 8th, p. 262), we pass to the remaming
question with respect to the proceedings that were actually
taken in that court in connection with the property in
controversy. It is objected that the petition for the appointment of an administrator was informal; that it did
not set forth the jurisdictional facts; that it was signed by
persons not shown to have any interest in the estate, and
asked for the appointment of another 'stranger'; and that
hence the court never acquired jurisdiction and that its
appointment of the administrator and its subsequent proceedings were null and void. But it is not disputed that
the real property was within the county. The owner, a
resident of that county, had died. The order of appointment recited that he had died intestate. As a court of
record (Id., § 5, p. 200) having capacity to administer, its
jurisdiction over the subject-as has been said by the
Supreme Court of the State of Washington with reference
to theProbate Court of the Territory '--"carries with it
the presumption of the integrity of the judgment, the
same as does the judgment of a court of general jurisdiction." Magee v. Big Ben Land Co., 51 Washington, 406,
409, 410. Despite the informality of the petition, the appointment of the administrator was not void, and not
being void it is not subject to collateral attack. Magee v.
Big Ben Land Co., supra; Grignon's Lessee v. ,Astor, 2
How. 319, 339; Florentine v. Barton, 2 Wall. 410, 216;
Comstock v. Crawford, 3 Wall. 396, 403; McNitt v. Turner,
16 Wall. 352, 366; Veach v. Rice, 131 U. S. 293, 314;
Simmons v. Saul, 138 U. S. 439, 457; 4 Bac. Abr. 96;
Pick v. Strong, 26 Minnesota, 303; Morgan v. Locke, 28
La. Ann. 806; Riley's Admr. v. McCord's Admr., 24 Missouri, 265. It appears that subsequently the Probate
Court, after opportunity had been afforded to discover
IThe reference is to the Probate Court of the Territory as it existed
under the Code of 1881, but its jurisdiction was not essentially different
from that of the Probate Court under the earlier Probate Practice Act.

CAHRISTIANSON v. KING COUNTY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

heirs, entertained a petition of the administrator for final
account and distribution. The 5tatutory notice (Probate
Practice Act, 1863, § 319) was published and on the return
day the proceeding was duly continued and, on hearing,
the decree was entered settling the account, finding that
there were no heirs, and directing distribution of the real
property, as described, to the County of King.. This proceeding was essentially in rem. In re Ostlund's Estate,
supra;AlaskaBanking-& Safe Deposit Co. v. Noyes, supra;
McDowell v. Beckham, supra; Krohn v. Hirsch, supra. It
was competent for the court to inquire whether there were
heirs, and if there were such to determine who were entitled to take according to the order prescribed by the
statute, and also, if it was found that there were no heirs,
to make the distribution to the County as the statute reqdired. It is apparent that there was no deprivation of
property without due process of law. The court, after
appropriate notice, did determine that there were no heirs
and its decree being the act of a court of competent jurisdiction under a valid statute bound all the world including
the plaintiff in error. It cannot be regarded as open to
attack in this action. Grignon's Lessee v. Astor, supra;
Florentine v. Barton, supra; Caujolle v. Ferri, 13 Wall.
465, 474; Brodericks Will, 21 Wall. 503; Simmons v. Saul,
supra; Goodrich v. Ferris, 214 U. S. 71, 80, 81.
As, in this view, the judgment of the court below must
be affirmed, we do not find it necessary to consider the
questions that have been argued with respect to the application of the Statute of Limitations.
Judgment affirmed.

