CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. LUEDERS.
239 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY OF ILLINOIS, AND
TRUSTEE OF RHEINSTROM, v. LUEDERS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 445. Motion to dismiss submitted October 12, 1915.-Decided
October 25, 1915.
The provision in ยง 4 of the Act of January 28, 1915, c. 22, 38 Stat.
803, making judgments and decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals
in bankruptcy proceedings final except on certiorariby this court,
applies to all cases including those involving and requiring interpretation of state statutes and application of the Federal Constitution.
Appeal from 221 Fed. Rep. 829, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals in bankruptcy proceedings from the Circuit
Court of Appeals under ยง 4 of the Act of January 28,
1915, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Walter A. DeCamp, Mr. Dudley V. Sutphin, Mr.
Leo J. Brumleve, Jr., Mr. Edward F. Peters and Mr. Paul
V. Connolly for appellees, in support of the motion.
Mr. Lessing Rosenthal, Mr. Charles H. Hamill, Mr. Leo
F. Wormser, Mr. Judson Harmon, Mr. Edward Colston,
Mr. A. W. Goldsmith and Mr. George Hoadly for appellants,
in opposition to the motion:
The jurisdiction of this court, conferred by ยง 241, Jud.
Code (as construed in Houghton v. Burden, 228 U. S. 161,
165), has not been divested by the Amending Act of
January 28, 1915.
Where an Act of Congress is directed to a class of cases
which had so increased in number as to impose a burden
of litigation upon this court, the Act will be given effect

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

in the light of the object of its enactment and will not be
construed as a limitation upon the jurisdiction of this
court in a case not belonging to that class, even though
the operation of the Act must be restrained within narrower limits than its literal words import. United States v.
Am. Bell Tel. Co., 159 U. S. 548; Petriv. CommercialBank,
142 U. S. 644, 650; Holy Trinity Church v. United States,
143 U. S. 457, 459; United States v. Rabinowich, 238 U. S.
78.
Where the correctness of a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals depends upon the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States, the
defeated party, provided it has asserted its constitutional
rights from the outset, is entitled, as of right, to a reexamination of the judgment by this court, even though
the decree of the District Court was rendered sitting in
bankruptcy. Spreckels Sugar Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S.
397.
Memorandum opinion by MR.

JUSTICE McREYNOLDS,

by direction of the court.
The I. Rheinstrom & Sons Company was adjudged a
bankrupt in April, 1912. Liens upon its property were
claimed by appellees under a Kentucky statute which
appellants (general creditors) maintained contravened the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. Overruling the Referee, the District Court allowed the liens (207 Fed. Rep. 119) and this action was
approved by the Circuit Court of Appeals, March 2, 1915,
in an opinion which expressly upheld the validity of the
statute (221 Fed. Rep. 829). Appellees have moved to
dismiss the present appeal.
Section 4, .Act of Congress, approved January 28, 1915,
c. 22, 38 Stat. 803, 804, provides: "That the judgments
and decrees of the circuit courts of appeals in all proceed-

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. LUEDERS.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ings and cases axising under the bankruptcy Act and in
all controversies arising in such proceedings and cases
shall be final, save only that it shall be competent for the
Supreme Court to require by certiorari, upon the petition
of any party thereto, that the proceeding, case, or controversy be certified to it for review and determination,
with the same power and authority as if taken to that
court by appeal or writ of error; but certiorari shall not
be allowed in any such proceeding, case, or controversy
unless the petition therefor is presented to the Supreme
Court within three months from the date of such judgment or decree."
Manifestly, the words of the quoted section include the
decree below and inhibit an appeal therefrom. It is argued, however, that they should be so construed as to
exclude causes requiring interpretation of state statutes
and application of the Federal Constitution and thereby
limited in effect to the supposed purpose of Congress to
relieve this court only from the necessity of reviewing
bankruptcy cases which "involve complicated questions
of fact rather than of law." We see no reason to doubt
that the plain language of the enactment aptly expresses
the fixed legislative intent. The appeal is accordingly
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

