N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. v. GRAY.
239 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

NEW YORK CENTRAL & HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY v. GRAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT,

APPELLATE

DIVISION,

FIRST JUDICIAL DISTRICT, STATE OF NEW YORK..

No. 147. 'Argued December 17, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.
The anti-pass provision in the Hepburn Act of 1906 applies to common
carriers by railroad in interstate commerce with respect to transportation within the bounds of a State as part of an interstate journey.
While the anti-pass provision in the Hepburn Act of 1906 operates
upon an agreement for exchange of transportation for anything
else than money made prior to the passage of the Act so that specific
performance can no longer be required, an interstate carrier cannot
for this reason refuse to make just compensation in money for an
unpaid balance for services fully performed under such a contract
before the passage of the Act. Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Mottley, 219
U. S. 476, distinguished.
161 App. Div. 924, 932, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act as amended in 1906,
prohibiting discrimination in regard to facilities and privileges of transportation and the validity of contracts made
prior to the Hepburn Amendment and the rights of parties
thereunder, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William Mann, with whom Mr. Charles C. Paulding was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:

.The transportation which plaintiff in error agreed to
furnish defendant in error was to be used on interstate
journeys and was, therefore, subject to the provisions of

the Act of February 4, 1887, and the amendments thereof
and supplements thereto, known- as the Interstate Com-

merce Act.

Southern Pacific Co. v. Int. Com. Comm.,

219 U. S. 498; Tex. & N. 0. R. R. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinioni of the Court.

239 U. S.

U. S. 111; Louisiana R. R. Comm. v. Tex. & Pac. Ry.,
229 U. S. 336.
On and after August 28, 1906, when the amendment to
the Interstate Commerce Act of June 29, 1906, became
effective, it was unlawful for the plaintiff in error to furnish
defendant in error transportation for use on an interstate
journey, except upon receiving from him in money the
regular fare provided in its tariffs in payment for such
transportation. Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Mottley, 219
U. S. 467; Chi., Ind. &c. Ry. v. United States, 219 U. S. 486.
The refusal of plaintiff in error to furnish defendant
in
to apply in part
error transportation in September, 1906,
payment of the map in question, did not constitute a
breach of the agreement on its part and io cause of action
arose in favor of defendant in error because of such refusal.
Mr. Arthur W. Clement, with whom Mr. Wilson E.
Tipple was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
In the month of November, 1900, Charles P. Gray, the
defendant in error, made an agreement with the representatives of the New York Central & Hudson River
Railroad Company, plaintiff in error, to make for the
company a large map of, the Vanderbilt Lines for the
World's Fair, which was to take place at Buffalo in the
following year. The price agreed to be paid him was
$750, of which $150 was to be paid in cash and the balance in transportation to be used by defendant in error in
traveling between New York City and his farm in Girard,
Pa., following the lines of plaintiff in error between New
York and Buffalo, and the line of another and independent
railroad between that point and Girard. The map was
made, delivered, and accepted, and the cash payment

N. Y. ('ENTRAL R. R. v. GRAY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of $150 was made. At different times between the
making of the contract and the month of September,
1906, defendant in error received from plaintiff in error
transportation to the value of $55.77 applicable to this
contract. In September, 1906, he called upon the company for transportation for himself and wife from New
York City to Buffalo and return, intending to use it for a
visit to the farm at Girard, Pa. The demand was refused,
upon the ground that because of the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Law the company could furnish no
additional transportation on account of his services.
A second demand of the same kind having been refused,
defendant in error brought an action against plaintiff in
error in the City Court of the City of New York for the
unpaid balance of the agreed price of the map, to which
plaintiff in error set up the defense that by the terms of the
Hepburn Act of June 29, 1906, it was unlawful to furnish
transportation for any part of an interstate journey in
payment for services or for any other consideration except a regular fare paid in money. The trial court, holding that this constituted no defense to the action, directed
a verdict in favor of defendant in error for an amount made
up by taking the agreed price of the map, deducting the
cash payment and the amount paid in transportation,
and adding interest to the balance. No particular question was or is made as to the quantum of recovery. The
resulting judgment was affirmed by the Appellate Term of
the Supreme Court, and its determination was affirmed
by the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court for the
First Judicial Department. 161 App. Div. 924, 932.
Leave to appeal to the Court of Appeals of the State
was denied, and this writ of error was sued out.
Among the prohibitions contained in the Act of June 29,
1906, is the following (34 Stat. 587, c. 3591): "Nor shall
any carrier charge or demand or collect or receive a greater
or less or different compensation for such transportation

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

of passengers or property, or for any service in connection
there with, between the points named in such tariffs than
the rates, fares, and charges which are specified in the
tariff filed and in effect at the time; nor shall any carrier
refund or remit in any manner or by any device any portion of the rates, fares, and charges so specified, nor extend to any shipper or person any privileges or facilities
'in the transportation of passengers or property, except
such as are specified in such tariffs." The reference, of
course, is to common carriers by railroad in interstate
commerce; and it is not questioned that plaintiff in error
is within this category. The act took effect August 28,
1906 (34 Stat. 838, Res. 47).
In Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. Mottley, 219 U. S.
467, 476 et seq., it was held that the prohibition we have
quoted prevented the exchange of transportation for
services, advertising, releases, property, or anything else
than money, and that this operated upon an agreement
made long before the passage*of the act whereby the carrier, in consideration of a release of damages for injuries
sustained by Mottley and his wife in consequence of a
collision of trains upon the railroad, agreed to issue free
passes to them, renewable annually during their several
lives, the result being that after the taking effect of the
Hepburn Act specific performance of this agreement could
no longer be required.
That the prohibition applies with respect to transportation within the bounds of a State as part of an interstate
journey is quite clear. So. Pac. Terminal Co. v. Int.
Com. Comm., 219 U. S.498, 527; Ohio Railroad Comm. v.
Worthington, 225 U. S.101,110; Louisiana R. R. Comm. v.
Tex. & Pac. Ry., 229. U. S.336, 340.
In the present case, therefore, the railroad company
acted strictly in accordance with the law when it refused
any longer to furnish transportation to defendant in
error in performance of the contract of November, 1900.

N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. v. GRAY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But from this it by no means follows that it could refuse

to make just compensation in money for the unpaid
balance. of the purchase price of the map. The judgment of the state court proceeded upon the ground that
since the contract had been fully performed by Gray,
so that the railroad company had received the entire
benefit of it, and since the delivery of the particular consideration stipulated for had been prohibited by the Act
of Congress, the company thereupon became bound upon
general principles of justice to pay him an equivalent in
money for the balance of the consideration. In so holding
the court was simply administering the applicable principles of state law, and did not run counter to the Act of
Congress. If the court had accorded legal efficacy to an
executory contract made after the taking effect of the
Hepbuin Act and contrary to its provisions, a different
question would be presented. But there is nothing in the
Act to prevent or relieve a carrier from paying in money
for something of value which it had long before received
under a contract valid when made, even though the contract provided for payment .in transportation which the
passage of the Act rendered thereafter illegal. In the
Mottley Case, while the right to further specific performance of the contract for free passage was denied, the court
said (219 U. S. 486): "Whether, without enforcing the
contract in suit, the defendants in error may, by some
form of proceeding against the railroad company, recover
or restore the rights they had when the railroad collision
occurred is a question not before us, and we express no
opinion on it."
Judgment affirmed.

