OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

ployers' Liability Act. As to assumption of risk, the
Supreme Court held that no such issue was made or submitted to the trial court, (a conclusion fully supported by
the record,) and therefore under the state practice no question concerning that subject was presented on appeal.
This conclusion denied no right of a Federal character.
Judgment affirmed.

HAPAI v. BROWN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
HAWAII.
No. 120. Argued December 17, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.
Where there is no doubt that the import of the decree pleaded as res
judicata to a bill to quiet title was to the effect that plaintiff in the
former action had no title to the property, the inquiry in the subsequent action is narrowed to the question of jurisdiction of the court
rendering the decree pleaded.
This court will not presume that the highest court of the Hawaiian
Islands did not know its own powers or did not decide in accordance
with law of the Kingdom. John Ii Estate v. Brown, 235 U. S. 342.
This court affirms the decision of the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Hawaii holding that the determination of the Supreme Court of
the Hawaiian Islands in a suit for partition made without any objection by any of the parties and not appealed from is valid and binding
upon, and res judicata as to, the same parties and their privies in
a subsequent suit involving the same land.
Even though the party making a motion to dismiss'for want of jurisdiction does not press it, this court is not at liberty to disregard it.
When, owing to confusion in the statutes, there is doubt as to whether
appeal or writ of error is the proper course, this court will, if possible,
save a party's rights from being lost by mistake in technicalities, and
so held that, under § 246, Judicial Code, writ of error was the proper
course to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of Hawaii in a
case involving over $5000 in which trial by jury was waived.
21 Hawaii, 756, affirmed.

HAPAI v. BROWN.
239 U. S.

•503

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment of
the courts of the Territory of Hawaii in an action affecting
title to a tract of land in that Territory, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Lorrin Andrews for plaintiff in error.
Mr. A. A. Wilder, with whom Mr. Alexander Britton,
Mr. Evans Browne and Mr. F. W. Clements were on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill to quiet title to an undivided 29/36 of the
ahupuaa of Koanoulu, a large tract of land in the Island
of Maui, Territory of Hawaii. The plaintiffs claim through
the children of one Keaka other than one daughter,
Paakuku, through whom the defendants claim the whole
tract.
One of the defences was res judicata. The proceeding
relied upon as having decided the relative rights of the
parties was a bill brought in November, 1871, by the
plaintiffs' predecessors against Paakuku and others,
alleging title in Keaka during her life; a devise by her to
her heirs, followed by joint possession on the part of the
plaintiffs and of Paakuku as quasi-trustee; and waste, a
wrongful sale and a wrongful lease by Paakuku. The bill
prayed for an account from Paakuku, that the sale and
lease be ordered to be cancelled as against the plaintiffs,
and that a partition be decreed. PaakUku's answer set up
a conveyance of the premises by Keaka to her in fee and
continuous possession by her since the date of the same.
It also alleged that Keaka's will, if not overriden by the
subsequent deed, devised the land to Paakuku in fee,
subject to some merely personal and revocable rights in
some of the plaintiffs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

.239 U. S.

The case was tried in the Supreme Court before the
Chief Justice. On October 1, 1874, a Minute was entered:
"The opinion of the Court is that the Petitioners have no
title to the lands of Kaonoulu and Kaluapulu and so adjudge. There is no controversy about the title of the land
at Wailuku and the petition for partition of that land is
hereby granted and decreed accordingly." An opinion
filed two days later discusses the title, decides that the
deed alleged by Paakuku is freed from every suspicion,
and repeats the language of the Minute. On October 12
it was decreed that the plaintiffs take nothing by their bill.
The Supreme Court. in the present case expressed the
opinion which, apart from the deference due to it upon a
local matter, does not require argument to support it, that
the intention and meaning of the decree of October 12 was
to dismiss the bill on the ground that the plaintiffs had not
the title alleged. It therefore affirmed a judgment for the
defendants holding that the plaintiffs were concluded by
the former decree. The only point, if any, that can be
argued, is that in general a bill for partition cannot be
made a means of trying a disputed title, Clark v. Roller,
199 U. S. 541, 545, and that therefore the decree should
be taken to be a dismissal for want of jurisdiction, or at
least allowed no greater effect than if it had gone on that
ground.
But, as we cannot doubt the import of the decree when
rendered, we are narrowed in our inquiry to the question
of jurisdiction in an accurate sense. Unless we are prepared to pronounce the decree void for want of power to
pass it and open to collateral attack, the decision in this
case must stand. But there was no inherent difficulty, no
impossibility in the nature of things or for want of physical
power, in the attempt to decide title in the suit of 1871.
And as was observed at the last term, it would seem surprising to suggest that the highest Court in the Hawaiian
Islands did not know its own powers, or decide in accord-

HAPAI v. BROWN.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ance with the requirements of the law of which that Court
was the final mouthpiece. John Ii Estate V. B'rown, 235
U. S. 342, 349. The plaintiffs in the former case in no way
protested against the trial of their title, but on the contrary sought relief.distinct from partition, that made the
trial necessary. Even if we were disposed to go behind
the decisions of the Chief Justice of the Kingdom and of
the highest Court 'of the Territory upon a matter like this
it would seem to us as unreasonable to hold the adjudication of title void because partition was prayed as to hold
it void because the decree was made upon a multifarious
bill. The cases where objections to the jurisdiction,
though taken in the cause, have been held to have been
waived go farther than we have to go here. We will not
speculate as to how extreme a case must be to produce a
different result; it is enough that this is far from the line.
The defendants in error filed a motion to dismiss, which,
in view of our opinion upon the merits they probably
would not care to press but which-we are not at liberty to
disregard. The case is brought here by writ of error,
whereas, it is said, it should have been brought up by appeal. By § 246 of the Judicial Code of March 3, 1911, c.
231, 36 Stat. 1087, 1158, writs of error and appeals from
the final judgments and decrees of the Supreme Court of
Hawaii may be taken 'in the same manner, under the
same regulations, and in the same classes of cases, in
which' they may be taken from the final judgments and
decrees of the court of a State, 'and also in all cases wherein
the amount involved, exclusive of costs, . . . exceeds
the sum or value of five thousand dollars.' The present
suit comes here under the last clause, at the trial a jury
was waived, and the proposition is that the earlier provisions of the section do not govern this clause but that,
except when there is a trial by jury, the cases there mentioned must be brought to this Court by appeal under the
Act of April 7, 1874, c. 80, § 2,.18 Stat. 27. It is said that

506

OCTOBER TERM,. 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

this has been the practice. See, e. g. Win. W. Bierce, Ltd.,
v. Hutchins, 205 U. S. 340. Whether or not the incidental
assumption in that decision that an appeal would lie was
correct, we are of opinion that the proceeding by writ of
error was justified by the plain meaning of § 246. So far
as the policy of Congress might permit, (see Act of
March 3, 1915, c. 90, § 274b, 38 Stat. 956,) we should be
disposed to be a little astute to save a party's rights from
being lost through mistakes upon a technical matter in the
somewhat confused condition of the statutes. But we cannot doubt that 'the path adopted was right.
Judgment affirmed.

HALLOWELL v. COMMONS, ACTING INDIAN
AGENT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 135. Submitted December 15, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.
Under the act of June 25, 1910, the Secretary of the Interior has power
to ascertain the legal heirs of an allottee Omaha Indian dying during
the period in which an allotment made to him under the act of
August 7, 1882, was held in trust, and the decision of the Secretary
is final and conclusive.
Congress, by the act of June 25, 1910, restored to the Secretary of the
Interior the power taken from him by the Acts of 1894 and 1901 to
determine the heirs of allottee Indians dying during the trust period,
making his jurisdiction exclusive with no exceptions for pending
litigation.
The rule that the repeal of a statute does not extinguish liability incurred thereunder held, not applicable to the statute in this case
which simply changes the tribunal to hear the case and takes away
no substantive rights.
Congress in its plenary control of Indians has power to pass the act

