NAT. BANK v. SHACKELFORD.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

NATIONAL BANK OF ATHENS v. SHACKELFORD,
TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY FOR WEBB.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 40.

Argued October 29, 1915.-Decided November 8, 1915.

A mortgage given for valuable consideration more than four months
before the petition was filed, held fraudulent and void as to creditors
because fraudulently withheld from record until the day the petition
was filed.
In this case both courts below having concurred in finding as matter
of fact that the mortgage was void because executed and withheld
from record for the purpose of hindering and defrauding creditors,
this court follows the rule that such finding will not be disturbed
unless clearly shown to be erroneous.
208 Fed. Rep. 677, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a mortgage lien
on the property of the bankrupt, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John J. Strickland, with whom Mr. Roy M. Strickland was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Lamar C. Rucker and Mr. Horace M. Holden, with
whom Mr. Stephen C. Upson, Mr. Howell C. Erwin and
Mr. Andrew J. Cobb were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This controversy arose in a bankruptcy proceeding and
was begun in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Georgia. Appellant claims that it
holds a valid lien on certain real estate in the city of
Athens, formerly the property of the bankrupt, Webb,
under a mortgage deed executed by him November 6, 1911,
VOL. ccxxxIx-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

but not recorded until noon August 14, 1912, a few hours
before the petition in involuntary bankruptcy was filed.
Among other things, the trustee asserts that the mortgage
is void as to creditors because fraudulently withheld from
record. Bankruptcy Act, ยง 70, c. 541, 30 Stat. 544.
Georgia Code, 1910, ยง 3224.
Having heard the witnesses and upon the entire evidence, the District Court, citing and purporting to fbllow
In re Duggan, 183 Fed. Rep. 405 (1910), found and adjudged the deed invalid as against general creditors. Affirming this action the Circuit Court of 'Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit declared: "The evidence in this case tends
strongly to show that, although the mortgage given by
the bankrupt to the appellant was for a valid consideration and effective as between the parties thereto, the same
by understanding, if not agreement, was withheld from
record, so as not to affect the mortgagor's credit; and we
therefore concur with the trial judge in his disposition of
the case." 208 Fed. Rep. 677, 678. In the Duggan Case
the same court had held fraudulent and void, both as to
prior and subsequent creditors, a chattel mortgage executed by a bankrupt but withheld from record under
agreement so to do because of the effect which recordation
would have on her credit.
Considering all said and adjudicated by the two courts
below, we must conclude they concurred in finding, as
matter of fact, that the mortgage in question was void
as to creditors because executed and withheld from record
for the purpose of hindering, delaying or defrauding them.
The rule is well settled that a finding of this nature will
not be disturbed upon review here unless clearly shown to
be erroneous. Washington Securities Co. v. United States,
234 U. S. 76, 78; Stuart v. Hayden, 169 U. S. 1, 14. An
examination of the record reveals no clear error, and,
accordingly, the judgment appealed from must be
Affirmed.

