GSELL v. INSULAR CUSTOMS COLLECTOR.
239 U. S.

93

Syllabus.

like this, any more than there necessarily is in a statute
requiring a writing signed by the party sought to be
charged. The United States needs the protection of publicity, form, regularity of returns and affidavit, Rev.
Stats., §§ 3709, 3718-3724, 3745-3747, in order to prevent
possible frauds upon it by officers. A private person needs
no such protection against a written undertaking signed
by himself. The duty is imposed upon the officers of the
Government not upon him. We see no reason for extending the implication of the act beyond the evil that it seeks
to prevent. Even when a statute in so many words declares a transaction void for want of certain forms, the
party for whose protection the requirement is made often
may waive it, void being held to mean only voidable at
the party's choice.
Judgment reversed.

GSELL v. INSULAR COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

No. 31. Submitted May 14, 1915; ordered that briefs be filed on the
jurisdictional question June 21, 1915; briefs fied October 11, 1915.Decided November 15, 1915.
The manner of review in this court of judgments of the Supreme Court
of the Philippine Islands is regulated by the act of July 1, 1902, 32
Stat. 691.
Under the act of July 1, 1902, this court has jurisdiction to review the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands in actions
in which a statute of the United States is involved.
A decision as to classification of merchandise imported into the Philippine Islands involves the construction of the Philippine Tariff Act,
and that being a statute of the United States, this court has jurisdiction to review the judgment if properly brought up.
Under the act of July 1, 1902, the same regulations and procedure apply

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

to the review by this court of judgments of the Supreme Court of
the Philippine, Islands as to final judgments of the Circuit Courts,
and this provision being essential, such regulations and procedure
must be complied with.
The procedure for review by this court of judgments of the Circuit
Courts and Circuit Courts of Appeals in customs cases has always
been by appeal and not by writ of error.
There is more than mere difference in form and procedure between a
review by appeal and one by writ of error; upon the former, questions
of law and fact are involved; while upon the latter, the review is limited to questions of law.
Review by writ of error is inapplicable to customs cases involving the
facts necessary to determine the proper classification under the
statute, and judgments of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands in customs cases cannot be reviewed upon writ of error.
Writ of error to review 24 Phil. Isl'd, 369, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of writs of error to review judgments of the Supreme Court
of the Philippine Islands, are stated. in the opinion.
Mr. Harry W.

Van Dyke for plaintiff in error.

Mr. S. T. Ansell and Mr. L. W. Call for defendant in

error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes to this court on a writ of error to the

Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, the purpose of
which is to review a judgment of that court, affirming a
judgment of the Court of First Instance of Manila, which
reversed a decision of the Insular Collector as to the proper
classification under the tariff act of a certain commodity,

known as wool noils, imported into the Philippine Islands.
The contention of the importer is that the material is
admissible under the free list. The decision was that such

material properly classified was subject to a duty of ten
per cent. ad valorem. At the last term of this court, this
case was submitted for consideration, and an order was

GSELL v. INSULAR CUSTOMS COLLECTOMI.
239 U. S.

95

Opinion of the Court.

entered, requesting that briefs be filed before the present
term on the question of the jurisdiction of this court to
review the decision of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands, and, if reviewable, whether by writ of error or
appeal.
The manner of review in this court of the judgments of
the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands is regulated
by act of Congress of July 1, 1902, c. 1369, § 10, 32 Stat.
691, 695, which provides:
"That the Supreme Court of the United States shall
have jurisdiction to review, revise, reverse, modify, or
affirm the final judgments and decrees of the Supreme
Court of the Philippine Islands in all actions, cases,
causes, and proceedings now pending therein or hereafter
determined thereby in which the Constitution or any
statute, treaty, title, right, or privilege of the United
States is involved, or in causes in which the value in controversy exceeds twenty-five thousand dollars, or in which
the title or possession of real estate exceeding in value the
sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, to be ascertained
by the oath of either party or of other competent witnesses,
is involved or brought in question; and such final judgments or decrees may and can be reviewed, revised, reversed, modified, or affirmed by said Supreme Court of
the United States on appeal or writ of error by the party
aggrieved, in the same manner, under the same regulations, and by the same procedure, as far as applicable, as
the final judgments and decrees of the circuit courts of
the United States."
This section gives this court jurisdiction to review, revise, reverse, modify, and affirm the final judgments or
decrees of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands,
among others, in actions in which a statute of the United
States is involved. The Philippine Tariff Act of August 5,
1909, c. 8, 36 Stat. 130, which is under consideration in
this case, is a statute 6f the United States, and the decision

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

as to the classification of the merchandise in question involves a statute of the United States, and the case is
properly brought for review into this court.
As to the manner of review, this statute is distinct, and
provides that such final judgments and decrees of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, can be reviewed,
revised, reversed, modified, or affirmed by this court on
appeal or writ of error by the party aggrieved, in the same
manner, under the same regulations, and by the same procedure, as far as applicable, as the final judgments and
decrees of the Circuit Courts of the United States. This
provision as to the manner of review is an essential part
of the act, and in considering it, this court held, in Fisher
v. Baker, 203 U. S. 174,-where an attempt was made to
review an order in a proceeding in habeas corpus by writ of
error,-that, inasmuch as the final order in such cases in
the Circuit and District Courts of the United States can
only be reviewed by appeal, the same rule governs procedure to review a final order of the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands, and the writ of error was accordingly
dismissed. See, in this connection, De la Rama v. De la
Rama, 201 U. S. 303; Behn v. Campbell, 205 U. S. 403.
We therefore proceed to inquire as to the manner of
review of orders of this character, in revenue cases in the
United States, under the statutes and regulations governing such proceedings, when taken from the final judgments and decrees of the Circuit Courts of the United
States. Before the act of June 10, 1890, c. 407, 26 Stat.
131, there was a right of review of revenue cases by appeal
from the Circuit Courts of the United States to this court
(Rev. Stats., § 699). By the act of June 10, 1899, § 15,
26 Stat. 131,138, an appeal was given from the decision of
the Board of Appraisers as to the construction of the law
and the facts, respecting the classification of merchandise,
and the rate of duty imposed, to the Circuit Courts of the
United States. The decision of the Circuit Court was

GSELL v. INSULAR CUSTOMS COLLECTOR.
239 U. S.

97

Opinion of the Court.

final unless the court should be of opinion that the question involved was of sufficient importance to require a
review by this court, in which case an appeal was allowed
from the Circuit Court to this court. In this state of the
law, the Court of Appeals Act was passed March 3, 1891,
c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, in which the judgment of the Court
of Appeals was made final, among other instances, in
revenue cases. It was held that that act, read in connec•tion with former legislation, gave the Circuit Court of
Appeals jurisdiction to review judgments of the Circuit
Court in revenue cases. Louisville Public.Warehouse Co.
v. Collector of Customs, 49 Fed. Rep. 561, Circuit Court of
Appeals, Sixth Circuit, opinion by Judge, afterwards Mr.
Justice Jackson. The remedy must be sought by appeal,
and not by writ of error. United States v. Diamond Match
Co., 115 Fed. Rep. 288, Sixth Circuit. In 1908, the Revenue Act was amended May 27, 1908, c. 205, 35 Stat. 403,
405, so that the decision of the Circuit Court was made
final in such revenue cases, unless the court certified that
the question was of enough importance to go to the Court
of Appeals, in which case there was a right to review the
judgment of the Court of Appeals by writ of certiorari
in this court. The Customs Court Act gives jurisdiction
to review the decisions of the Board of General Appraisers
by appeal. This act has no application to the Philippine
Islands. From this it may be seen that the procedure for
review in the Circuit Courts of the United States, as well
as in the Circuit Courts of Appeal and in this court, has
at all times been by way of appeal, and not by writ of
error. United States v. Klingenberg, 153 U. S. 93, 103, 104.
Turning now to the procedure in the Philippine Islands
(Acts of Philippine Commission, No. 864), we find that
the decision of the Insular Collector may be reviewed in
a Court of First Instance, and afterwards in the Supreme
Court of the Philippine Islands, as was done in the present
case. In the Supreme Court, while that court has the
VOL. ccxxxIx-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

case upon so-called bills of exception, the whole record is
certified and the case is considered, as the opinion shows
upon the facts and the law applicable thereto. Thus the
proceeding in the Supreme Court is practically an appeal.
In the opinion and judgment in that court it is styled
an appeal. The right to review the judgment in this court
is, as we have said, controlled by the Federal Act of 1902,
32 Stat. 691, and isin the same manner, i. e., by appeal or
writ of error, and with the same procedure, so far as applicable, as is applied to final judgments and decrees of the
Circuit Courts of the United States. From what has been
said, it is apparent that such review from the orders of
the Circuit Courts of the United States was uniformly by
appeal, and not by writ of error. Nor is the different
method of review a mere difference in form and procedure
only. Upon appeal, as the statutes already referred to and
the decisions of this court show, it was intended to take
before the reviewing court the questions of law and fact
involved, upon all competent evidence taken and heard
before the Board of General Appraisers and before the
Circuit Court. Such was the uniform method and purpose of review, under all the statutes and procedure,
which, so far as applicable,. are to be read into the Philippine Act, and such is still the policy of the Federal Statutes in permitting review of the decisions of the Boards of
General Appraisers in the United States by appeal to
the Court of Customs Appeal. By writ of error the review
is limited to questions of law, a method of procedure inapplicable to customs cases where the facts must be considered in order to determine the proper classification of
the merchandise and the duty to which it is subject.
We reach the conclusion that the writ of error, by which
it is sought to review the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the Philippine Islands in this case, should be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction, and it is so ordered.
Dismissed.

