OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

239 U. S.

STEINFELD v. ZECKENDORF.
APPEAL FROM AND ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF ARIZONA.
No. 239. Argued Ontober 19, 20, 1915.-Decided November 1, 1915.
A court is not precluded from construing a document because its constraction is affected by facts and circumstances not open to dispute.
Whatever may be the rule as to legislatures and statutes this court
may determine from the knowledge of its members whether the
court below has acted as this court intended it should upon a mandate recently entered.
Cases come to this court from Arizona in the usual form, and this
court has no jurisdiction on appeal from a judgment of the Supreme
Court of that State even though entered on the mandate of this
court in a case originally coming here from the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Arizona.
As the Judgment entered by the Supreme Court of the State in this
case is not inconsistent with the opinion of this court there is no
reason for disturbing it.
This court will not consfder provisions in a judgment of the state court
entered on the mandate of this court as to matters non-federal.
15 Arizona, 335, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
on appeals from and writs of error to the state court and
the construction of the mandate of this court and the
power and duty of the Supreme Court to act thereon, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. James M. Beck and Mr. Francis J. Heney, with
whom Mr. Eugene S. Ives was on the brief, for plaintiff in
error:
The jurisdiction of this court on the former appeal was
limited to the single question of law, do the findings of
fact support the judgment?

And consequently that was

the subject-matter of the proceeding here. Zeckendorf v.

STEINFELD v. ZECKENDORF.
239 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Steinfeld, 225 U. S. 445; Eagle Mining Co. v. Hamilton,
218 U. S. 513; Idaho Land Co. v. Bradford, 132 U. S.
513.
This court in the exercise of such appellate jurisdiction
cannot and will not supply, by intendment or inference,
any missing material fact, even if there were sufficient
evidence or sufficient probative facts in the findings, from
which the lower court might have inferred such missing
material fact. Sun Ins. Co. v. Ocean Ins. Co., 107 U. S.
485; Burr v. Des Moines Co., 68.U. S. 99; Hecht v. Boughton, 105 U. S. 235; Lincoln v. French, 105 U. S. 614; Dower
v. Richards, 151 U. S. 659; Wilson v. Merchants' Trust Co.,
183 U. S. 121; Raimond v. Terrebonne Parish, 132 U. S.
192; Lehnen v. Dickson, 148 U. S. 71; Barnes v. Williams,
11 Wheat. 414; Powers v. United States, 119 Fed. Rep. 563;
The E. A. Packer, 140 U. S. 360.
French v. Edwards, 21 Wall. 147, as construed in French
v. Edwards, 91 U. S. 423, and Ex Parte Medway, 90 U. S.
504, are on all fours with the case at bar.
The mandates of this court are to be interpreted according to the subject-matter of the proceeding here, and,
if possible, so as not to cause injustice. Supervisors v.
Kennicott, 94 U. S. 449.
Steinfeld has never had his day in court on these questions of fact.
Whenever a trial court fails to find any material fact by
reason of a wrong theory of the case adopted either by
itself or an intermediate appellate court, the court of last
resort, if it reverses the judgment, should direct or at least
authorize a new trial to prevent injustice to appellee or
defendant in error. Edmonston v. McLoud, 16 N. Y. 543;
Griffn v. Marquardt, 17 N. Y. 28; Ball v. Rankin, 101
Pac. Rep. 1105.
When an appellate court, on the evidence as it is presented in the record, or on findings of fact which are conclusive upon it reverses, generally, the judgment of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

lower court, an appellee or defendant in error is entitled
as a matter of right to a retrial of the case, and the mandate of this court should be interpreted accordingly.
Lincoln v. French, 105 U. S. 614; Elliott's App. Pro., ยง 580;
Talcott v. Delta Land Co., 73 Pac. Rep. 256; Faulkner v.
Healy, 107 California, 49; Stearns v. Aguirre, 7 California,
443; Prentice v. Crane, 88 N. E. Rep. 655; Ryan v. Tomlinson, 39 California, 639.
Should the court, however, conclude that its opinion and
decision on the former appeal must be interpreted as in
effect an instruction to the trial court to enter judgment
against Steinfeld on the first cause of action, then, nevertheless, that judgment is erroneous, and is too large by
$101,059.99. In re Washington, 140 U. S. 92; Himely v.
Rose, 5 Cranch, 312; McMannomy v. Chi. D. & V. R. Co.,
47 N. E. Rep. .713.
Mr. Frank H. Hereford, Mr. Edwin A. Meserve and M.'.
Selim M. Franklin, with whom Mr. Edwin F. Jones was
on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This case first came here by appeal from the Supreme
Court of Arizona while Arizona was still a territory.
Before the decision by this court Arizona became a State,
and the judgment, so far as now in controversy, having
been reversed, the case was remanded "for such further
proceedings as may not be inconsistent with the opinion
of this Court," the formula usual in cases coming from a
State. 225 U. S. 445, 459. The ground for the present
attempt to reopen the merits is that the state court has
misinterpreted the mandate that it received. Martin v.
Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304, 354. See Julian v. Central Trust
Co., 193 U. S. 93.
The case is stated at length in the former decision. All

STEINFELD v. ZECKENDORF.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that is necessary to explain the present question may be
put in shorter form. The suit was brought by Zeckendorf
as a stockholder in the Silver Bell Mining Company to
recover money alleged to belong to the Company and
appropriated by Steinfeld. There was a further cause of
action alleged but that has been disposed of. The money
represents the proceeds of the Silver Bell mine and a
group of mines adjoining the Silver Bell and purchased
by Steinfeld, it was assumed by the parties, as trustee

for the company. Steinfeld sold all the mines for $515,000,
$115,000 cash, $400,000 in notes for $100,000 each, and
his action was confirmed. At the time of the conveyance
to the purchaser it was agreed by a contract in writing
that the purchase price should belong to the Silver Bell
Copper Company, and in the same instrument it was provided that the four notes should be held by Steinfeld as
trustee and as security against his personal obligations in
the matter. Steinfeld received the cash and the proceeds
of the first two notes, paid certain liabilities of the company
and deposited the residue, except $50,000 attached in his
hands, in the Bank of California in his own name.
In December, 1903, Zeckendorf brought a suit to restrain the turning over of the deposited funds by the bank
to Steinfeld, and on December 26, 1903, a stockholders'
meeting was held at which all parties were represented and
a vote of rescission was passed upon which the present
question arises. For Steinfeld it is argued that the whole

agreement was rescinded. The other side contends that
the rescission went only to the clause giving Steinfeld a
right to the personal custody of the money. The directors,
consisting of Steinfeld and his creatures, although not
understanding the rescission to go beyond the indemnity
clause, passed a vote behind Zeckendorf's back under
which the proceeds of the sale were divided and one-half
given to Steinfeld. After the judgment of this court the
state court conceived itself bound by the mandate to

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

enter judgment for the plaintiff and did so. It now is contended on Steinfeld's part that he never has had his day in
court to present his case; for, it is said, the territorial
court simply ruled as matter of law that the vote of rescission rescinded the contract in toto, and this court, if
it thought, as it did that the ruling was wrong, properly
could do no more than to send the case back for a finding
of fact as to the true purport of the vote. If this should
be done Steinfeld alleges that he has evidence that he
wishes to present.
A court is not necessarily precluded from construing a
document because 'the construction is affected by facts
and circumstances not open to dispute. But the question
now is not whether this court was right or wrong, but
what it did. The mandate issued within the memory of
present members of the court, and there is no doubt that
the court below did what we intended that it should. In
the time of Edward I., Hengham interrupted discussion
of the Stat. Westm. II. by saying 'We know it better than
you, for we made it.' Ne glosez point le Statut; nous le
savoms meuz de vous, qar nous les feimes. Y. B. 33 Ed. I.
Mich., Rolls Ed., 83. However it may be as to a statute,
the objection seems reasonable when applied to a mandate
that has been followed as it was meant and the following words among others show clearly enough that we expressed our intent: "In our view, the facts found show
that . . . the subsequent attempt to rescind the action
by which the proceeds of the sale of the English group of
mines became the property of the Silver Bell Company
'and to give the proceeds to Steinfeld must be held for
naught." 225 U. S. 450. If the Territory had not become a State a judgment would have been ordered. The
more reserved phrase was used by reason of the change,
but with no change in what consistency with our opinion
was deemed to require.
We see no reason for supposing that cases were intended

MANILA INVESTMENT CO. v. TRAMMELL.
239 U. S.

31

Statement of the Case.

to come to this court from Arizona in other than the
usual form.

Therefore in any event this appeal would

have to be dismissed. To meet this possibility a writ of
error was allowed at the last moment. We have considered
the record as if made up under the writ. But apart from
technical objections that have been urged the only question that would be open is whether the judgment below
was ihconsistent with the opinion of this court, and as it
very plainly is not, there is no reason for disturbing it.
Our mandate was not concerned with the allowance of
attorneys' fees and some other matters that were argued,
and therefore they present no Federal question and need
not be considered.
Appeal dismissed.
Judgment affirmed.

MANILA INVESTMENT COMPANY v. TRAMMELL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 250. Motion 'to affirm or dismiss submitted October 12, 1915.-Decided November 1, 1915.
Mere breach of contract on the part of state officers does not amount
to a taking of plaintiff's property without due process of law in violation of' the Fourteenth Amendment.
Where the allegation of the bill relied on to give jurisdiction shows mere
breach of contract on the part of state officers the case does not
present a real and substantial controversy involving the construction or effect of the Federal Constitution and the District Court
does not have jurisdiction on that ground.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the District
Court of the United States in cases involving constitutional questions, are stated in the opinion.

