OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

BAILEY, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF GRANT,
v. BAKER ICE MACHINE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 42. Argued November 2, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.
After reviewing cases on conditional sale of personal property, and
sale absolute with chattel mortgage back, held that the transaction
involved in this case was one of conditional sale.
Requiring a vendee to give notes for deferred instalments of purchase
price is not inconsistent with retention of title in the vendor pending
payment of the notes. Win. W. Bierce, Ltd. v. Hutchins,205 U.S. 340.
While the exercise of a privilege to the vendor to file a mechanic's lien
for property delivered on conditional sale might be inconsistent
with retention of title in the vendor, the mere reservation of such a
privilege will not nullify express words to the effect that title remains
in the vendor until full payment be made.
Under the recording law of Kansas a contract of conditional sale is
valid between the parties, whether filed for record or not, but is void
as against a creditor of the vendee who fastens any valid lien upon
the property before the contract is filed for record.
To be within the terms of the provisions of § 60 of the Bankruptcy
Act making preferential transfers voidable, the transfer must be one
made by the bankrupt of his own property and which operates to
prefer one creditor over another.
A contract of conditional sale, to the vendor on failure to pay the stipulated price, held, in this case, not be to a preferential transfer by the
conditional vendee under § 60 of the Bankruptcy Act.
When not otherwise provided, the rights, remedies and powers of the
trustee in bankruptcy are determined with reference to the conditions existing when the petition is filed.
A trustee in bankruptcy cannot, under § 47a, cl. 2 of the Bankruptcy
Act, assail a contract of conditional sale filed prior to, but within
four months, of the petition on the ground that he has the status
of a creditor fastening a lien under the provisions of state law on
the property prior to the recording of the contract; and this because
the trustee acquires that status only from the filing of the petition.
The determination of a proceeding in bankruptcy between the trustee
and the vendor of property sold under conditional sale, held to be
without prejudice to the rights of a third party to whom the vendee
had mortgaged the property and who had not been joined in the
proceeding.
209 Fed. Rep. 603, affirmed.

BAILEY v. BAKER ICE MACHINE CO.
239 1..S.

269

Statement of the Case.

By a contract in writing, made at Omaha, Nebraska,
October 14, 1911, between the Baker Ice Machine Company and Grant Brothers the former agreed to deliver and
install upon the premises of the latter at Horton, Kansas,
an ice making and refrigerating machine for the sum of
$5,940, to be paid partly in cash and partly in deferred
instalments evidenced by interest-bearing notes. It was
specially stipulated that the 'title to the machine should
be and remain in the Baker Company until full payment of
the purchase price; that the machine should not be deemed
a fixture to the realty prior to full payment; that in the
meantime Grant Brothers should keep the machine in
good order and keep it insured for the benefit of the
Baker Company; that if default was made in the payment of the purchase price the Baker Company should
have the right to resume possession and take the machine
away, and that, in the event this right was exercised, the
company should be reimbursed for all expenses incurred
under the contract, should be compensated for any damage done to the machine in the meantime and should be
allowed a rental for its use equal to six per cent. per annum
upon the purchase price from the date of the installation
to that of the resumption of possession. And it was further stipulated that the Baker Company should have the
right to file a mechanic's lien for the materials and labor
furnished under the contract and that no notice of a
purpose to file such a lien, other than that afforded by this
stipulation, would be required.
The machine was installed in February, 1912, the cash
payment was made and notes were given for the balance
of -the purchase price, all as contemplated by the contract. A partial payment upon two of the notes brought
the total payments up to $3,200.14, and nothing more was
paid. May 15, 1912, but not before, the contract was
filed for record in the county register's office. At that
time Grant Brothers were insolvent and if the contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Parties.

239 U. S.

operated as a transfer of the machine from them to the
Baker Company, all the elements of a preferential
transfer, in the sense of the Bankruptcy Act, were
present.
July 11, 1912, within four months after such filing,
Grant Brothers presented to the District Court for the
District of Kansas their voluntary petition in bankruptcy and on the next day were adjudged bankrupts.
Possession of the machine, which had remained with
them up to that time, was then passed to the trustee in
bankruptcy. Shortly thereafter, the balance of the purchase price being due and unpaid, the Baker Company
intervened in the bankruptcy proceeding, asserted that it
owned the machine and was entitled to the possession in
virtue of the contract, and applied for an order directing
that the possession be surrendered to it. Upon a hearing
before the referee the application was denied and upon a
petition for review his action was sustained by the
District Court. An appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals resulted in a reversal of the decree with a
direction that the machine be delivered to the Baker
Company unless, within a time to be named, the trustee
pay the balance of the purchase price. 209 Fed. Rep.
603, 844.
During the pendency of the controversy, as now appears, the machine was sold for $2,800 pursuant to an
order of the referee, requested by the parties, whereby the
proceeds were to take the place of the machine and be
disposed of according to the final decision.
Mr. Edwin A. Krauthoff, with whom Mr. Charles
Curtis, Mr. W. S. McClintock and Mr. A. L. Quant were
on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. H. C. Brome, with whom Mr. Clinton Brome was on
the brief, for appellee.

BAILEY v. BAKER ICE MACHINE CO.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER,

The referee and the courts below held the contract to
be one of conditional sale, that is, one making full payment of the purchase price a condition precedent to the
passing of title, and this is criticised by the trustee, who
insists that the contract was one of absolute sale with a
chattel mortgage back securing the deferred instalments.
In harmony with the prevailing view, the statutes of
Kansas and the decisions of the Supreme Court of the
State recognize that there is a real distinction between a
conditional sale and an absolute sale with a mortgage
back, in that under the former the vendor remains the
owner, subject to the vendee's right to acquire the title
by complying with the stipulated condition, while under
the latter the vendee immediately becomes the owner,
subject to the lien created by the mortgage. Gen. Stat.
1909, §§ 5224-5226, 5232-5234, 5237; Sumner v. McFarlan,15 Kansas, 600; Hallowell v. Milne, 16 Kansas, 65;
Hall v. Draper, 20 Kansas, 137; Standard Implement Co.
v. Parlin & Orendorff Co., 51 Kansas, 544; Moline Plow
Co. v. Witham, 52 Kansas, 185; Big Four Implement Co.
v. Wright, 207 Fed. Rep. 535. In Hall v. Draperthe true
effect of a contract of conditional sale was drawn in question, and the court said, speaking through Justice Brewer,
afterwards a member of this court: "The title, and all the
rights of control and possession flowing from title, were
theirs [the vendors'] except as in terms restricted by the
.contract. The only limitations upon their full control of
the organ were those created by this instrument; and the
only rights Leveridge [the vendee] had were those obtained
by it. In this respect such a conditional sale differs from
an absolute sale with a mortgage back. In such case the
vendee has everything except as limited by the terms of
the mortgage. Here he has nothing except as expressed

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

in his contract." True, in Christie v. Scott, 77 Kansas,
257, there is general language which, if taken broadly,
makes against this distinction. But according to a
familiar rule (Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 399;
Pacific Express Co. v. Foley, 46 Kansas, 457, 464) this
language should be regarded as restrained by the circumstances in which it was used. The case did not present a
controversy over property conditionally sold, but only the
question whether the contract there shown entitled the
vendor, after reclaiming the property and crediting the
,proceeds upon the purchase price, to enforce payment
of the balance by the vendee. Without criticising or
referring to cases like Hall v. Draper, the court concluded
its discussion of the question by saying: "Under the contract attached to these notes, we hold that the plaintiff was
authorized to take the property and sell it and apply the
proceeds toward the payment of the notes, and that by so
doing the law does not imply a revocation of the contract
of sale, nor does the law imply that there remains no consideration for the payment of the balance due on the notes."
It therefore is plain that we ought not to treat the decision as overruling or qualifying those before mentioned.
In jurisdictions where regard is had for the distinction
here indicated between a conditional sale and an absolute
sale with a mortgage back, the question whether a particular contract shows one or the other turns upon the
ruling intention of the parties as disclosed by the entire
contract, and not upon any single provision separately
considered. Invoking this test, the trustee contends that
this contract was one of absolute sale with a mortgage
back, notwithstanding the stipulation that the title should
be and remain in the vendor until full payment. The contention does not appear to have support in any decision
of the Supreme Court of Kansas, and in our opinion is
not tenable. Requiring the vendee to give notes for the
deferred instalments of the purchase price was not incoi-

BAILEY t'. BAKER ICE MACHINE CO.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sistent with the retention of title in the vendor pending
payment of the notes. Bierce v. Hutchins, 205 U. S. 340,
348. Nor did any inconsistency result from the provisions relating to rent, damage and insurance. Instead of
making against the retention of ownership by the vendor,
they were in harmony with it, and doubtless were adopted
upon the theory that the vendee, who was to have the
possession and use of the property, should bear the burden
of preserving and insuring it, and, if the purchase price
was not paid, should not only return the property but
compensate the vendor for its use and any damage to it.
In Harkness v. Russell, 118 U. S. 663, a contract was held
to be one of conditional sale, although entitling the vendor
to rental and damages if the price was not paid; and in
Bryant v. Swofford Bros. Dry Goods Co., 214 U. S. 279,
there was a like holding, notwithstanding the vendee was
required to keep the property insured for the benefit of
the vendor, and, if it was destroyed by fire, was to remain
liable for the purchase price. In neither case was the
retention of ownership by the vendor deemed inconsistent with the other features of the contract. Coming
to the provision relating to a mechanic's lien, we think it
did no more than reserve to the vendor a privilege or option to file and enforce such a lien. It well may be that
the exercise of this privilege would have been inconsistent
with a continued assertion of title by the vendor. Bierce
v. Hutchins, supra, p. 346. But the privilege was not
exercised, and it hardly can be said that its mere reservation nullified the express words of the stipulation concerning the title. That it was not intended to do so seems
manifest when the entire contract is considered.
We therefore are of opinion that the contract was
rightly held to be one of conditional sale.
The question next to be considered is whether the contract operated as a preferential transfer by Grant Brothers
within the meaning of § 60b of the Bankruptcy Act, as
VOL. CCXXXIX-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

amended June 25, 1910, c. 412, 36 Stat. 838, 842, which declares that "a transfer" by a bankrupt "of any of his property" shall be voidable by the trustee, if it be made or recorded (when recording is required) within four months
before the petition in bankruptcy is filed, and "the bankrupt be insolvent and the . . . transfer then operate as
a preference," etc. The section leaves no doubt that to be
within its terms the transfer must be one which a bankrupt
makes of his own property and which operates to prefer
one creditor over others; and if further light be needed
there is a declaration in the Bankruptcy Act, July 1, 1898,
30 Stat. 544, 545, § 1, clause 25 that the word "transfer"
shall be taken to include every mode "of disposing of or
parting with property, or the possession of property, absolutely or conditionally, as a payment, pledge, mortgage,
gift, or security." It therefore is plain that § 60b refers
to an act on the part of a bankrupt whereby he surrenders
or encumbers his property or some part of it for the
benefit of a particular creditor and thereby diminishes the
estate which the Bankruptcy Act seeks to apply for the
benefit of all the creditors. New York County National
Bank v. Massey, 192 U. S. 138, 147. Applying this test
to the contract in question, we think it did not operate
as a preferential transfer by Grant Brothers, the bankrupts. The property to which it related was not theirs
but the Baker Company's. The ownership was not transferred, but only the possession, and it was transferred to
the bankrupts, not from them. Being only conditional
purchasers, they were not to become the owners until the
condition was performed. No doubt the right to perform
it and thereby to acquire the ownership was a property
right. But this right was not surrendered or encumbered.
On the contrary, it remained with the bankrupts and
ultimately passed to the trustee, who was free to exercise
it for the benefit of the creditors. So, there was no diminution of the bankrupts' estate.

BAILEY v. BAKER ICE MACHINE CO.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Under the recording law of Kansas a contract of conditional sale is valid between the parties, whether filed
for record or not, but is void as against a creditor of the
vendee who fastens a lien upon the property by execution,
attachment or like legal process before the contract is
filed for record. Gen. Stat. 1909, § 5237; McVay v. English, 30 Kansas, 368, 371; Lead Pencil Co. v. Champion,
57 Kansas, 352, 257; Youngberg v. Walsh, 72 Kansas, 220,
227; Geiser Mfg. Co. v. Murray, 84 Kansas, 450; Paul v.
Lingenfelter, 89 Kansas, 871; Geppelt v. Middle West Stone
Co., 90 Kansas, 539, 544; Dixon v. Tyree, 92 Kansas, 137,
139; Big Four Implement Co. v. Wright, supra. Here the
contract was made October 14, 1911, and filed for record
May 15; 1912. In the meantime no creditor fastened a
lien upon the property by execution, attachment or other
legal process. But it is contended that § 47a, clause 2, of
the Bankruptcy Act, as amended in 1910, c. 412, 36 Stat.
838, 840, gave the trustee the status of a creditor having
such a lien. That section provides that a trustee in bankruptcy, "as to all property in the custody or coming into
the custody of the bankruptcy court, shall be deemed
vested with all the rights, remedies, and powers of a creditor holding a lien by legal or equitable proceedings."
Although otherwise explicit, this provision does not designate the time as of which the trustee is to be regarded as
having acquired the status indicated, and yet some point
of time must be intended. Is it the date of the trustee's
appointment, the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, or
some time anterior to both? When not otherwise specially
provided, the rights, remedies and powers of the trustee
are determined with reference to the conditions existing
when the petition is filed. It is then that the bankruptcy
proceeding is initiated, that the hands of the bankrupt
and of his creditors are stayed and that his estate passes
actually or potentially into the control of the bankruptcy
court. We have said: "The filing of the petition is an

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U. S.

assertion of jurisdiction with a view to the determination
of the status of the bankrupt and a settlement and disposition of his estate. The exclusive jurisdiction of the
bankruptcy court is so far in rem that the estate is re-

garded as in custodia legis from the filing of the petition."
Acme Harvester Co. v. Beekman Lumber Co., 222 U. S.
300, 307. And again: "We think that the purpose of the
law was to fix the line of cleavage with reference to the
condition of the bankrupt estate as of the time at which
the petition was filed and that the property which vests
in the trustee at the time of adjudication is that which the
bankrupt owned at the time of the filing of the petition."
Everett v. Judson, 228 U. S. 474, 479. And see Zavelo v.
Reeves, 227 U. S. 625, 631. Had it been intended that the
trustee should take the status of a creditor. holding a lien
by legal or equitable process as of a time anterior to the
initiation of the bankruptcy proceeding, it seems reasonable to believe that some expression of that intention
would have been embodied in § 47a as amended. As this
was not done, we think the better view, and one which
accords with other Provisions of the act, is that the trustee
takes the status of such a 'creditor as of the time when
the petition in bankruptcy is filed. Here the petition was
filed almost two months after the contract was filed for
record, and therefore the trustee was not entitled to assail
it under the recording law of the State.
The record shows that between the date of the contract
and the time it was filed for record the bankrupts mortgaged the machine to the First National Bank of Horton
and that the bank, although apparently asserting some
right under the mortgage, was not brought into the present
proceeding. In this situation, our decision and that of
the Circuit Court of Appeals must be understood to be
without prejudice to further proceedings respecting the
rights, if any, existing under that mortgage.
Decree af rmed.

