ELZABURU v. CHAVES.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

alty provisions, we need not pass judgment upon them.
Grenada Lumber Co. v. Mississippi, 217 U. S. 433, 443;
West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Richmond, 224 U. S. 160, 172; The
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 380; Louis. & Nash.
R. R. v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 298, 319; Grand Trunk Ry.
v. Michigan Ry. Comm., 231 U. S. 457, 473; Ohio Tax
Cases, 232 U. S. 576, 594.
The court below expressed the view that the cause
should be retained in order to restrain prosecutions for
penalties during such time as would be reasonably required to enable the corporation to comply with the order
of the Commission. The court's order, as entered upon
complainant's application, contains no provision upon the
subject. Our affirmance of that order will be without
prejudice to the authority of the District Court to deal
with the question of penalties.
Affirmed.

ELZABURU v. CHAVES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 52.

Submitted November 1, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.

The former practice in regard to appeals from the Supreme Court of
Porto Rico provided by § 35 of the Foraker Act of 1900, was superseded by § 244, Jud. Code, subjecting appeals from that court to the
same regulations as appeals from the District Courts of the United
States thus extending the review of this court to include questions
of fact, and § 244 has been repealed by section three of the act of
January 28, 1915, with a reservation of cases then pending in this
court.
In this case the record discloses no sufficient ground for reversing
the court below on questions of fact.

The courts of Porto Rico having held, prior to the decision in this case,

OCTOBER. TERM,, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

that a judgment in a proceeding under § 395 of the Mortgage Law
to establish title was not resjudicata as between the party instituting
the proceeding and a party opposing it, and having also held that
§ 395 had not been repealed either directly or by implication, held
that such prior decisions had stood so long unchallenged as to have
become a rule of property and should not now be overruled.
A party defeated in a statutory possessory proceeding in an inferior
court, which a higher court has already held not to be a proceeding
in which the judgment is res judicata, may rely upon such decision
and refrain from appealing from such adverse judgment and bring
suit in the courts to set it aside.
19 Porto Rico, 162, affirmed.

facts, which involve the title to land in, and the
construction of the Mortgage Law of, Porto Rico, are
stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. J. Texidor for appellant.
There was no appearance, nor was any brief filed, for
the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was commenced by the present appellant in
the District Court of San Juan to set aside as null and void
certain possessory proceedings instituted by Paula Chaves
in the year 1895 with respect to an estate containing
50 cuercias of land, situate at a place known as Honduras,
in the ward of Sabana Llana, in the Municipality of Rio
Piedras, Porto Rico, and the resulting entry of possession
in the Registry of Property of San Juan, and to require the
defendants (the present appellees), who are children and
heirs of Paula Chaves, to vacate the property and deliver
up possession to the plaintiff as the lawful owner. The
District Court rendered judgment in his favor; but the
Supreme Court of Porto Rico reversed this judgment and

ELZABURU v. CHAVES.
-239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dismissed the complaint. 19 P. R. Sup. Ct. 162. The
present appeal was taken under § 244, ,Jud. Code (Act of
March 3, 1911, 36 Stat. 1087, i157, c. 231), it appearing
that the estate in question exceeds five thousand dollars
in value.
The transcript contains, in addition to the evidence, a
"statement of facts in the nature of a special verdict,"
made up for the purposes of the present appeal in the
manner contemplated by § 35 of the Foraker Act (of
April 12, 1900, ch. 191, 31 Stat. 77, 85). See Rosaly v.
Graham, 227 U. S. 584, 589; Ochoa v. Iernandez, 230 U.'S.
139, 143. But that practice was sgperseded by § 244,
Jud. Code, which subjected appeals taken from the
Supreme Court of Porto Rico to the same regulations as
appeals from the District Courts of the United States,
thus extending our review so as to include questions of
fact.'
Plaintiff asserted that the 50 cuerdas were part of a
tract of 112 cuerdas, and this in turn part ofa tract containing between 140 and 150 duerdas formeily owned by
Alonso Hernandez, who acquired it in the year 1854; that
Hernandez hypothecated this property- to the Spanish
Government as security for the faithful performance of
his duties as collector of internal revenue; that because of
an embezzlement of public funds by him the property
was seized by the Government in the year 1875; that
about 20 years later, on June 5,1895, it took possession of
the land, and on September 14, in that year, possession was
recorded in the Registry in favor of the Government,
without prejudice to third parties who might have a better
title; and that on October 15, 1897, the tract of 112
cuerdas was sold at auction to one Cuadrado, who transferred his right to plaintiff, and thereafter, by deed of
1 Section 244, Judicial Code, was repealed by section three of the
Act of January 28, 1915, 38 Stat. 803, 804, ch. 22, but with a resepation of cases then pending in this court, as the present case was.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

October 17, 1898, the proper public official conveyed the
land to plaintiff. As to the source of the title of Hernandez, plaintiff claims' to have shown by evidence that
prior to the year 1819 the whole tract was inherited by
Eugenia de la Cruz and her brother, Josd, from their
grandparents, and the brother conveyed his share to the
sister; that in that year Eugenia sold the land without deed
to Juana Maria de Otero; and that after the death of
Eugenia, and in the year 1836, her son and testamentary
executor instituted proceedings to prove the inheritance
of the estate by his mother and the sale of it to Mrs.
Otero. In these proceedings, which were in evidence,
several witnesses testified that Eugenia de la Cruz was
the owner of the property then in question for many
years prior .to the sale of it to Mrs. Otero in 1819, but
agreed in saying that at the time of testifying and for
some years before one Juan Caneti was in possession of it
under some title unknown to them. The testimony having been forwarded to the court of San Juan, it was
ordered that the owners of the adjacent properties and the
Sindico Procurador be heard. The property owners
waived hearing. It does not appear that Caneti was
either summoned or heard. The Sindico made no objection to approving the investigation, "for although the
witnesses say that said property is possessed by Juan
Caneti, this does not annul the ownership had by Eugenia,
and Juana may have leased or sold it to Caneti." The
investigation was thereupon approved by the court.
Hernandez' title was derived in the year 1854 under a
public deed made by a brother and four sisters named
Otero, in their own name and for two other brothers
named, for "an estate in the barrio of Honduras, Rio
Piedras, which is bounded by lands belonging to the
Marchioness de Leon and to Jos6 de la Cruz, and is composed of 140 or 150 cuerdas, the exact number of which
will be stated in the deed to be executed for the purpose,
0

ELZABURU v. CHAVES.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as well as the demarcation thereof, when the same is surveyed."
Defendants (the present appellees) alleged that Juan
Caneti was the true owner at least of the tract of 50
cuerdas now hi dispute; that from him it passed to his
son, Santos Caneti, who in the year 1867 sold it on instalments to Ramon Clemente, the husband of Paula Chaves,
from whom it descended to Paula and the defendants, who
are her lawful children by Clemente. There was substantial evidence tending to support these allegations. It was
also shown quite clearly that Paula Chaves was in continuous possession from the year 1875 until her death in
1899, after which event defendants held continuous
possession down to the time of the suit. In the year 1895
Paula instituted proceedings for the recording of her
possession, in which the adjoining owners were summoned, testimony was taken, and the proceedings were
approved November 7, 1895, and recorded in the Registry
of Property in the month of March following.
The Supreme Court of Porto Rico treated the present
suit as partaking of the character of an action of ejectment
to such extent that it devolved upon plaintiff at the outset
to prove that he was the lawful owner of the lands claimed
by and in the possession of defendants. The court reviewed the evidence, found that plaintiff's chain of title
did not clearly identify the location or boundaries of the
land claimed by him, that the evidence of Hernandez'
title was dubious, and, while the tract of 50 cuerdas was
clearly comprised within the boundaries which the Spanish
Government fixed for the properties sold by it to plaintiff,
there was so much doubt respecting the question of ownership as to render it impossible to reach the conclusion that
plaintiff had proved his title. It was pointed out that
in the proceedings instituted in 1836 no description of
the property was given, that the witnesses then examined
failed to establish the possession of Mrs. Otero, but did

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

refer to the fact of possession by Juan Caneti, who was
neither summoned nor heard; that it was not established
in what manner the Oteros who made the deed of sale in
1854 to Hernandez were connected with Mrs. Otero
named in the proceedings of 1836; that it was not shown
how the seizure of the property by the Spanish Government in 1875 was carried into effect, or the quantity or
location of the property seized;. that there was no record
of the details connected with the act of taking possession
of the 112 cuerdas by the Mayor of Rio Piedras in behalf
of the Government on June 5, 1895, as alleged by plaintiff,
but that even if those 112 cuerdas included the 50 cuerdas
in controversy it appeared that Paula Chaves, who at
that time was in possession of the 50 cuerdas, not only remained in possession, but for the purposes of the possessory title proceedings, brought by her later in the same
year, obtained a certificate from the Mayor, the Secretary,
and the Sindico of the Municipality of Rio Piedras stating
that according to the records in the municipal archives
she was in possession under title of ownershiip; and that
from the whole of the evidence it appeared that the
Canetis had held continuous possession in early times, and
the Chaves family at least from 1875.
Our examination of the record discloses
no sufficient
ground for reversing the Supreme Court of Porto Rico
upon the questions of fact.
The chief reliance of appellant is upon certain questions
of law, the first insistence being that the court erred in
denying the force and effect o res judicata to a decision
rendered by the District Court of San Juan May 31,1907,
in a former action between the present parties. It appears
that defendants, as heirs of Paula Chaves, instituted a
proceeding in the municipal court of San Juan for the
purpose of converting the 'entry of possession of the
50 cuerdas previously made in her favor into a dominion
title; that plaintiff opposed the conversion, upon the trial

ELZABURU v. CHAVES.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

decision was rendered in his favor, and on appeal the
District Court of San Juan declared that the 50 cuerdas
were not in possession of defendants but were part of the
estate of 112 cuerdas belonging to plaintiff, that he was in
lawful possession, and that the heirs of Chaves had no
right to convert their recorded possession into a dominion
title.
The Supreme Court held that this decision was not
res judicata. Appellant cites, to the contrary, § 188 of the
local Code of Civil Procedure (Comp. Stat. P. R., § 5172),
which declares that "A judgment is a final determination
of the rights of the parties in an action or proceeding,"
and §§ 59 and 101 of the Law of Evidence (Comp. Stat.
P. R., §§ 1427, 1469), which are to the effect that, as to
parties notified, " judgment or final order in an action
or special proceeding" is conclusive.'
'(1427) SEC. 59. The effect of a judgment or final order in an action
or special proceeding before a court or judge of Porto Rico
having jurisdiction to pronounce the judgment or order, is as follows:
1. In case of a judgment or order against a specific thing, or in respect to the probate of a will, or the administration of the estate of a
decedent, or in respect to the personal, political, or legal condition or
relation of a particularperson, the judgment or order is conclusive
upon the title to the thing, the will, or administration, or the condition
or relation of the person;
2. In other cases the judgment or order is, in respect to the matter
directly adjudged, conclusive between the parties and their successors
in interest by title subsequent to the commencement of the action
or special proceeding, litigating for the same thing under the same title
and in the same capacity, provided they have notice, actual or constructive, of the pendency of the action or proceeding.
(1428) SEC. 60. Other judicial orders of a court or judge of Porto
Rico . . . create a disputable presumption, according to the
matter directly determined, between the same parties and their representatives and successors in interest by title subsequent to the commencement of the action or special proceeding, litigating for the same
thing under the same title and in the same capacity. . . .
*

*

*

VOL. CCXXXIX-19

*

*

*

*

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

The question is, whether the decision of May 31, 1907,
was "a judgment or final order in an action or special
proceeding" within the meaning of the sections cited.
The proceeding was instituted under Article 395 of the
Mortgage Law (Comp. Stat. P. R., p. 1108), which enables
an owner of property having no written title to record his
ownership upon proving it before the judge of the court of
first instance, or municipal court, under prescribed formalities. Notice is given to the person from whom the
property may have been acquired, or his predecessor in
interest, and to the representative of the department of
public prosecution. The judge is to "receive written
pleadings upon the claims and evidence which may have
been presented by the representative of the department of
public prosecution or by the other persons who may have
attended the proceedings," and in view of their allegations
he is to decide upon the evidence and declare whether the
ownership of the property involved has been established;
any person interested may appeal from this-decision; and
"if said decision is accepted or affirmed, it shall constitute
a sufficient title for the record of the ownership."
There seems to be no question that such a decision, as
the law stood at the time of the annexation of the Island
to the United States, was not conclusive upon the question
of ownership, even as between the parties participating in
the proceeding, but was subject to be set aside in an ordinary action.
By Article 413 of the Mortgage Law it was declared:
"None of the articles of which this law consists can be
repealed except by virtue of another special law." And
by § 8 of the Foraker Act of April 12, 1900, c. 191, 31 Stat.
(1469) SEC. 101. The following presumptions, and no others, are
deemed conclusive:
6. The judgment or order of L court, when declared by this code
to be conclusive; . .

ELZABURU v. CHAVES.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

77, 79, the law was continued in force until amended or
repealed by the legislative assembly or by Act of Congress.
The Code of Civil Procedure was enacted by the legislative
assembly March 10, 1904. The Law of Evidence was
enacted March 9, 1905. As already shown, it refers to
"actions and special proceedings." Upon the same day
another act was approved, entitled "An Act relating to
special legal proceedings." (Comp. Stat. P. R., p. 300.)
It contains provisions for the recording of public instruments and wills, for declaration of heirship, administration of decedents' estates, appointment of guardians, the
care of the persons and properties of minors, and other
matters; and in its final section there is this declaration:
"All previous laws in conflict herewith are hereby repealed; but the special proceedings established in the
Civil Code, in the mortgage law and its regulations, and
in any other law, in so far as not provided for by this act,
remain in force."
The effect of these subsequent enactments upon the
special proceedings established in the Mortgage Law and
Regulations was considered by the Supreme Court of
Porto Rico in Gimnez v. Brenes (1906), 10 P. R. Sup. Ct.
124, 131, 133, etc., and again in Gonzales v. The People
(1906), 10 P. R. Sup. Ct. 458, 462. In the former case it
was held, with respect to summary proceedings for the
collection of a mortgage debt under Article 128, in the
latter with respect to a special proceeding under Article
395, that the provisions of the Mortgage Law remained in
force notwithstanding the Code of Civil Procedure, and
in the latter case it was distinctly held that the proceedings
to establish ownership did not produce the effect of res
judicata. This was reaffirmed by the same court, in
Calderon v. Garcia (1908), 14 P. R. Sup. Ct. 407, 416.
And see Ochoa v. Hernandez, 230 U. S. 139, 151. These
decisions of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico are based
upon reasoning that, while conceding the full authority

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

*of the legislative assembly to repeal or modify the Mortgage Law, in effect invokes Article 413 of that law (continued in force as a part of it by the Foraker Act) as prescribing a rule of interpretation to be applied in testing the
intention of the law-making body as expressed in subsequent enactments. No express repeal of Article 395 of
the Mortgage Law being found, and the question being
one of implied repeal, the court deemed it manifest that
the legislative assembly, in adopting the Code of Civil
Procedure and the Law of Evidence, did so with full knowledge of Article 413 of the Mortgage Law, and therefore
intended no implied repeal. And the Law of Evidence
having been enacted contemporaneously with the Act
Relating to Special Proceedings, the latter act was looked
to in construing § 59 of the former, and the express reservation of the special proceedings established in the Mortgage Law and its Regulations was treated as showing that
they were to be left in existence with their former force
and effect, and no greater. This view, to say the least, is
a reasonable one; and since it is plain that the decisions,
having stood so long unchallenged, have established a rule
of property, it seems to us that they ought not now to be
overruled. It is worthy of remark that Gonzales v. The
People, supra, was decided more than a full year before
the decision of the District Court of San Juan which
appellant insists ought to be treated as conclusive. Defendants may well have refrained from taking an appeal
from the decision of the District Court in reliance upon
the previous decision of the higher tribunal that it had no
conclusive effect.
The remaining questions of law raised by appellant resolve themselves, upon analysis, into a mere criticism of the
process of reasoning by which the court reached its conclusions upon the facts. We find them without substantial
merit, so far as their effect upon the result is concerned.
Judgment affirmed.

