OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

385, a local board had to determine 'whether, in what
amount, and upon whom' a tax for paving a street should
be levied for special benefits. A relatively small number of
persons was concerned, who were exceptionally affected,
in each case-upon individual grounds, and it was held that
they had a right to a hearing. But that decision is far
from reaching a general determination dealing only with
the principle upon which all the assessments in a county
had been laid.
Judgment affirmed.

DAYTON COAL AND IRON COMPANY, LIMITED,
v. CINCINNATI, NEW ORLEANS AND TEXAS
PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 81. Argued November 12, 1915.-Decided December 20, 1915.
The highest court of the State is the ultimate judge of the extent of its
jurisdiction; and, unless a denial of Federal rights is involved, its
decision upon that subject is final and conclusive.
Where a carrier files a through joint rate with the Interstate Commerce
Commission to take effect on a specified date thereafter and prior
to that date the tariff is received and stamped by the connecting
carrier, which thereafter receives freight under the schedule of the
filed tariff, the rate becomes a joint one and there can be no departure therefrom.
Permitting a shipper to make freight payments on the basis of a rate
less than that specified in the filed tariff does not modify the right of
the parties to insist upon the legal rate as filed and published,
Prior to the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission of May,
1907, requiring connecting carriers to accept joint rates specifically,
formal acceptance was not necessary, and the receipt of the tariff
and acceptance of freight thereunder was sufficient to put the joint
rate into effect.

DAYTON IRON CO. v. CINCINNATI &c. RY. 447
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE. facts, which involve the validity of tariffs of rates

filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission by carriers and of charges made by such carriers, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. G. H. West, with whom Mr. W. B. Miller was on

the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joseph B. Brown, and Mr. M. M. Allison, with
whom Mr. Foster V. Brown, Mr. Frank Spurlock and

Mr. Claude Waller were on the brief, for defendant in
error.

MR. JUsTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The Dayton Coal and Iron Company, Limited, hereinafter called the Dayton Company, filed its bill in the
Chancery Court at Chattanooga, Tennessee, seeking to
enjoin the Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Pacific
Railway Company, generally known as, and hereinafter
called, the Southern Railway, from prosecuting a certain
suit in the United States Circuit Court for the Southern
District of Ohio, brought by the Southern Railway against
the Dayton Company td recover upon certain shipments
of iron ore which it was alleged had been shipped, at a
tariff of 70 cents per ton, being 10 cents more per ton
than the Dayton Company contended was the true rate
on such shipments. The difference amounted to $4,933.08,
for which sum the Federal suit was brought.
The shipments of iron ore were made from Cartersville,
and other points in Georgia, to Dayton, Tennessee, the
Nashville, Chattanooga and St. Louis Railway Company,
operating the Western and Atlantic Railroad Company,
being the initial carrier. The bill averred that the Dayton
Company had a defense against the action in the Federal
Court, partly legal and partly equitable, and that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway Company
and the Western and Atlantic Railroad Company were
necessary and proper parties to the determination of the
controversy and were not within the jurisdiction of the
Federal court. It was further charged that the freight
contract was binding upon all the parties for 60 cents per
ton, and that each and all of the defendants were bound by
that rate.
The Southern Railway answered, setting up, among
other things, that, according to the requirements of the
Federal Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended in 1906,
the Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway duly
filed and published a schedule known as "Tariff I. C. C.
# 1351A," showing the joint rate for the transportation of
iron ore from Cartersville, Georgia, and nearby points,
to Dayton, Tennessee, to be 70 cents a ton, and that
that tariff became effective on March 5, 1907; that the
Southern Railway was named as one of the parties to this
joint tariff, and it and the other defendants were bound by
it and prohibited by law from charging more or less than
the tariff named and filed; that after the tariff went into
effect on March 5, 1907, the Southern Railway billed to
the Dayton Company iron ore shipped from Cartersville, Georgia, and from Emerson and Rogers, Georgia,
to Dayton, Tennessee, covered by the through tariff rate,
filed as aforesaid, at the rate of 70 cents per ton, and insisted and still insists upon the payment of that rate;
that the Dayton Company, insisting that the rate was
10 cents over the legal rate, had settled its freight bills
monthly, making a deduction of 10 cents by an arrangement with the Southern Company; that the Dayton
Company refused to pay this difference, and therefore the
suit was brought in the United States'Circuit Court for
the Southern District of Ohio, and that before answering
in that suit complainant had filed the present bill, though
the suit in the United States Court was still pending and

DAYTON IRON CO. v. CINCINNATI &c. RY. 449
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

undetermined. The other railroad companies defendants
also filed an answer, making like allegations as to the
making and filing of the 70-cent rate, effective March 5,
1907.
The Southern Railway filed a cross-bill, in which it again
set up the alleged legal effect of the filing of the 70-cent
rate to take effect on March 5, 1907, averring that it
had paid the Nashville,. Chattanooga & St. Louis Iailway
Company its proportion of said rate, and that the difference between the 60- and 70-cent. rate .was due to it
from the Dayton Company, and asked that it be given
judgment upon its .cross-bill against that company on
that account for the sum of $4,933.08, or, if it should be
determined that it was not entitled thereto, because of
the illegality of the published rate, made and insisted
upon by the Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway Company, that it have judgment for that amount
against its co-defendant, the Nashville; Chattanooga &
St. Louis Railway Company. Answers were filed to this
cross-bill.
Upon hearing, the Chancery Court determined the case
in favor of the complainant, holding that the 70-cent
rate was illegal, inequitable, and unenforceable, and that
the complainant was entitled to the 60-cent rate, as contended for by it; and enjoined the Southern Railway from
prosecuting its suit in the Federal court except for certain items not included in the controversy about the
rates, and held that upon the cross-bill the Southern
Railway was entitled to recover from the Nashville,
Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway Company the 10 cents
per ton which the latter company had received because
of ore shipped by complainant from Cartersville and
other southern points to Dayton, Tennessee, under
color and by reason of the 70-cent rate. Upon appeal
the Supreme Court of Tennessee reversed the decree of
the Chancery Court, and held that the 70-cent rate was
VOL. ccxxxix-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

the legal rate in force from and after March 5, 1907, and
that if it had jurisdiction to determine the case it would
so decide. For reasons set forth in its opinion, however, it
reached the conclusion that, because of the acts of Congress concerning the Interstate Commerce. Commission,
there 'was no jurisdiction to entertain the original bill,
and that it and the cross-bill must be dismissed. It is
to reverse this decision that the writ of error in this case
was sued out.
The Supreme'Court of Tennessee is, of course, the
ultimate judge of the extent of its jurisdiction, and unless
a denial of Federal rights is involved, its decision upon
that subject is final and conclusive. From what we have
already said, however, it is apparent that the real Federal
question involved in this controversy concerns the right
of the Southern Railway to enforce the 70-cent rate on
the shipments of iron ore from Cartersville and other
points in Georgia to Dayton, Tennessee. Upon this
point the Supreme Court reached the conclusion that the
70-cent rate was the only legal rate in force at the time
of the shipments; that it was filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission on February 2, 1907, to take
effect on March 5, 1907; that it was thus filed by the
Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway Company
and duly received and stamped by the Southern Railway
as the connecting carrier; and that the last-named railroad concurred in the tariff by receiving freight under
that schedule and making settlements under it. This
made the rate a joint one, in accordance with the rulings
of the Interstate Commerce Commission at that time,
and under the Interstate Commerce Act there could be no
departure from this published rate.
Our examination of the record satisfies us, Kansas
Southern Ry. v. Albers, 223 U. S. 573, that upon this
question of the legal effect of the filed tariffs and the consequent establishment of the 70-cent rate the Supreme

DAYTON IRON CO. v. CINCINNATI &c. RY. 451
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Tennessee was clearly right. It appears that the
70-cent rate was duly filed by the Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway with the Commerce Commission; that it became effective upon March 5, 1907; that
the connecting carrier, the Southern Railway, received
the tariff and stamped and filed it, and acted upon it,
insisting that 70 cents was the legal rate, although permitting the Dayton Company to make payments at the
rate of 60 cents per ton. Such payments could not have
the effect to modify the' right of the parties to insist upon
the legal rate as filed and published. 'True, the Southern
Railway did not formally inform the initial carrier of its
acceptance of this tariff; nor was this necessary. United
States v. N. Y. Central R. R., 212 U. S. 509. This practice
of acceptance without formal notice was recognized by
the Interstate Commerce Commission, as appears by its
orders set out in the record, until the order of the Commission in May, 1907, requiring acceptance to be specifically given and certified to the Commission, thus avoiding
the confusion and misunderstandings which arose under
the former practice.
That it is essential to the maintenance of uniform rates
and the avoidance of rebates-.and preferential treatment
that the tariff rates filed with the Commission according
to the Interstate Commerce Act, while in force, shall be
the only rates which the carrier may lawfully receive or
the shipper properly pay is too thoroughly settled by the
former decisions of this court to require further discussion.
The principle is stated and many .previous cases in this
court cited in a case decided at the last term, Louis. &
Nash. R. R. Co. v. Maxwell, 237 U. S. 94, 97, 98.
It follows that the Supreme Court of Tennessee did not
err, in so far as any Federal right is involved, in the judgment rendered dismissing the bill.
Affirmed.

