GREAT NORTHERN RY. v. OTOS.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

Upon the cross appeal also we are of opinion that the
Government is in the right. If it had attempted to hold
the claimants to the time originally mentioned in the contract the question might be different, but we see no ground
for a claim on their part to hold the United States liable
for delay. Specification 41,, the substance of which has
been stated, is inconsistent with the implication of an
undertaking that the claimants shall be notified to begin
within any particular time. The findings hardly warrant
the statement in the opinion that the delay from May 13
to June 14 was chargeable to the defendant's neglect. It
simply is left unexplained. The notice was given in time
to begin work on the lock and dam as early as was contemplated by specification 41. But further, as is pointed
out by the court below, the prices had advanced before
the supposed neglect began---not to speak of the finding
that the claimants had not the facilities to accumulate
material even if they had been notified at an earlier date.
Judgment reversed. Petition dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of these cases.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. OTOS.,
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
NO. 429. Argued November 30, 1915.-Decided December 13, 1915.

A car, coming from another State, which is merely delayed. in the State
of destination before reaching, and which does finally reach, its
destination, is not, by reason of such delay, withdrawn from interstate commerce and the operation of the Safety Appliance Act.
While the supplementary Safety Appliance Act of 1910 relieves the

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

carrier from statutory penalties while hauling the defective car to te
nearest available point for repair, it does not relieve the carrier from
liability for injury to an employ6 in connection with such hauling.
Under the circumstances involved in this action under the Employers?
Liability Act, the trial court did not err in charging that if the ijuries were directly due to defective condition under the Safety
Appliance Act of couplers of a car which had come from without the
State to the point where the accident occurred, and which was destined to another point within the State, the defendant carrier would
be liable.
128 Minnesota, 283, affirmed..

THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the Safety Appliance Act in cases for injuries under
the Employers' Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. E. C. Lindley, with whom Mr. M. L. Countryman
and Mr. A. L. Janes were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Tom Davis, with whom Mr. Ernest A. Michel was
on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTicE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action under the Safety Appliance Act and
Employers' Liability Act. The plaintiff (defendant in
error,) was a switch foreman and was breaking up a train
that had come into his State from the west. At the moment when he was hurt he had three cars attached to
a switching engine; the rear one consigned to Duluth,
and to be switchedto another track; the next consigned to
Minneapolis; both loaded. The automatic coupler on the
Minneapolis car was out of order, the pin-lifter was missing, other repairs were needed, and there was evidence
that it had been n~arked for repairs and was to be switched
to the repair track beore going further. In the switching
operation the plaintiff, being unable to uncouple the
Duluth car from the side where the pin-lifter was missing
without going between the cars, did so while the cars were
moving and was badly hurt. The jury was instructed that

GREAT NORTHERN RY. v. OTOS.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

if the injuries 'were due directly to the absence and imperfect working condition of the coupler in question' the
defendant would be liable. The plaintiff got a verdict
and judgment was ordered for $30,000, which order was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. Otos v. Gt.
Northern Ry., 128 Minnesota, 283. 150 N. W. Rep. 922.
The defendant argues that the car had been withdrawn
from interstate commerce, and that therefore the Act of
March 2, 1893, c. 196, § 2, 27 Stat. 531, does not apply;
that if it does apply the defendant was required by that act
and the supplementary Act of April 14, 1910, c. 160, 36
Stat. 298, to remove the car for repairs and that its effort
to comply with the statutes could not constitute a tort;
and that the plaintiff was the person entrusted by it with
the details of the removal and could not make it responsible for the mode in which its duty was carried out; that
he might have detached the car while it was at rest. But
we are of opinion that the argument cannot prevail.
The car was loaded and in fact was carried to Minneapolis the next day. 'It had not been withdrawn from interstate commerce, but merely subjected to a delay in carrying it to its destination. At the moment of the accident'
it was accessory to switching the Duluth car. It does not
seem to us to need extended argument to show that the
car still was subject to the Act of Congress. Delk v. St.
Louis & San FranciscoR. R. Co., 220 U. S. 580. As the
Safety Appliance Act governed the case, it imposed an
absolute liability upon the carrier. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281. Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. United States, 220 U. S.
559. The supplementary Act of April 14, 1910, c. 160,
§ 4, relieves the carrier from the statutory penalties while
the car is being hauled to the nearest available point where
it can be repaired, but expressly provides that it shall not
be construed to relieve from liability for injury to an employ6 in connection with the hauling of the car. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

next section recites that under § 4 the movement of a car
with defective equipment may be made within the limits
there specified without incurring the penalties, 'but shall
in all other respects be unlawful.' Whether or not the
absolute liability created by the earlier act extended to
the present case, and we are far from implying that it did
not, the Act of 1910 imports with unmistakable iteration,
that the liability exists. Under the instructions of the
court the jury must have found that the defect was the
proximate cause of the injury, as that was made a condition of the plaintiff's right to recover. If so, the fact that
the plaintiff's conduct contributed to the result was not
a defense. Act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, §§ 3, 4; 35 Stat.
65, 66. Grand Trunk Western Ry. v. Lindsay, 233 U. S.
42. in view of the statutes it is unnecessary to consider
the limits to the plaintiff's authority by his instructions
from above. In any view of the evidence he was not withdrawn from the protection of the Acts.
Judgment affirmed.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. KOENNECKE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 491.

Argued November 30, 1915.-Decided December 13, 1915.

The allowance by the trial court after the testimony was in, and over
defendant's objection, of an amendment to bring the case specifically
under the Employers' Liability Act, held not to have exceeded the
discretionary power of the court, or to have been so arbitrary as to
amount to denial of due process of law.
In actions under the Employers' Liability Act, when questions of
negligence and the like are brought here only because arising in
actions under the statute and involving no new principles, this court
confines itself to a summary statement of results.

