CRAMP v. UNITED STATES.
239 ,U. S.

Statement of the Case.

WILLIAM CRAMP AND SONS SHIP AND ENGINE
BUILDING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 63. Argued November 8, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.
A.finding by the Court of Claims that there was no mutual mistake
between the parties in executing a release but that the instrument
expressed tie intention of the United States as previously agreed
upon, although the other party had mistaken its legal rights without
the fault of the United States or its officers, and that such failure
to apprehend the legal effect of the release did not make it the subject of reformation, held in this case to be binding upon this court.
The Court of Claims was established for the purpose of considering
the right of claimants to recover against the United States; and its
findings of fact upon matters within its authority should be conclusive unless Congress otherwise provides.
When Congress by special act refers a case to the Court of Claims with
right of appeal to this court, such appeal, unless the act otherwise
provides, is governed by rules applicable to cases arising under the
general jurisdiction of the court.
In this case there being ample testimony to support the finding of the
Court of Claims that there was no mutual mistake in the execution
of a complete release, and there being no mistake in the form of the
instrument, held that claimant was not entitled to rdeover damages
caused by delay in the Government furnishing material as the release executed covered all such claims although the representative
of the claimant may not have so 'understood it.
In cases within its general jurisdiction, the Court of Claims har jurisdiction to reform a contract for the purpose of determining whether
the claim, if established, is a valid one against the United ftates.
United States v. Milliken Imprinting Co., 202 U. S. 168.
46 Ct. Cl. 521, affirmed.

THIS action was brought in the Court of Claims to
recover damages on account of delay alleged to be the
fault of the United States in preventing completion according to contract of the battleship Massachusetts. The
Court of Claims dismissed the petition (46 Ct. Cls. 521).

OCTOBER TtRM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

239 U. S.

Large sums were demanded for delays covering other
periods than are involved in this appeal, and the case
as now presented concerns the right to recover the sum
of $27,984.99, being the damages which the Court of
Claims found accrued to the claimant for the period of
delay after February 1, 1896, for the period of three
months and twenty-nine days. The Court of Claims
made certain findings of fact, from which it appears that,
after the making of the contract, claimant arranged a
systematic working program for the construction of the
vessel within the contract time, and would have completed the vessel within time had it not. been. for the
failure of the Uited States to furnish materials to properly
carry on the work which by the terms of the contract
they had agreed to furnish; that by reason of such failure
of the Government, the completion of the Vessel was
delayed for two years, six months and -nine days beyond
the contract period; that the armor to be furnished iii
accordance with said clause was obtained by the United
States from other contractors, who, without any fault
on the part of the claimant, failed to complete the-manufacture thereof in time to deliver the same to the claimants
as they had agreed. Omitting the findings covered by
the release and contract made on May 26, 1896, and on
February 1, 1896, and the amount of damages* accruing
for such delay, as to the sum now in controversy the
court found that on November 23, 1896, after the completion and delivery of the vessel in accordance with
the sixth paragraph of the nineteenth clause of the contract, the balance of the amount due thereunder, but
held in accordance therewith until the final acceptance
of the vessel, was paid to the claimant, and the same
was accepted and a release approved by the Secretary
Qf the Navy was entered into by it without any written
protest, in the terms following:
"Whereas by the eleventh clause of the contract,

CRAMP v. UNITED STATES.
239 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

dated November 18, 1890, by and between the William
C.ramp & Sons Ship and Engine Building Company, a
corporation created under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, and doing business at Philadelphia, in said
State, represented by the president of said corporation,
party of the first part, and the United States, represented
by the Secretary of the Navy, party of the second part,
for the construction of a coast line battleship of about
10,000 tons displacement, which for the purposes of
said contract is designated and known as coast line battleship No. 2, it is agreed that a special reserve of sixty
thousand dollars ($60,000) shall be held until the vessel
has been finally tried, provided that such final trial shall
take place within five months from and after the date
of the preliminary acceptance of the vessel; and
"Whereas by the sixth paragraph of the nineteenth
clause of said contract it is further provided that when
all the conditions, covenants, and provisions of Said contract shall have been performed and fulfilled by and
on the part of the party of the first part, said party of
the first part shall be entitled, within ten days after the
filing and acceptance of its claims, to receive the said
special reserve, or so much thereof as it may be entitled
to, on the execution of a final release to the United States,
in such form as shall be approved by the Secretary of the
Navy, of all claims of any kind or description under or
by virtue of said contract; and
"Whereas the final trial of said vessel was completed
on the 24th day of October, 1896; and
"Whereas all the conditions, covenants, and provisions of said contract have been performed and fulfilled
by and on the part of the party of the first part;
"Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises, the
sum of $57,536.60, being the balance of the aforesaid
special reserve to which the party of the first part is entitled, being to me, in hand, paid by the United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

239 U. S.

represented by the Secretary of the Navy, the receipt
whereof is hereby acknowledged, the William Cramp &
Sons Ship and Engine Building Company, represented
by me, Charles H. Cramp, president of said corporation,
does hereby, for itself, and its successors and assigns,
and its legal representatives, remise, release, and forever
discharge the United States of and from all and all manner of debts, dues, sum and sums of money, accounts,
reckonings, claims, and demands whatsoever, in law or
in equity, for or by reason of, or on account of, the construction of said vessel under the contract aforesaid.
"In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
affixed the seal of the William Cramp & Sons Ship and
Engine Building Company this 23rd day of November,
A. D. 1896.
"The Wm.Cramp & Sons Ship and Engine
Building Company..
Chas. H. Cramp, President.
(Seal.)
"Attest:
"Theodore W. Cramp,
"Assistant Secretary."
The court sets foih the Act of June 10, 1896,1 referring
certain claims to tie Secretary of the Navy for investigation and report, and, in part, the report of the Secretary,
made December 9, 1896, is as follows:
"I have considered carefully the nature of these claims
'The Secretary of the Navy is hereby authorized and directed to
examine claims against the Government which may -be presented to
him by contractors for the building of the hulls or machinery of naval
vessels under contracts completed since January first, eighteen hundred
and ninety-one, where it is alleged that such contractors have been
subjected to loss and damage through delays in the work under said
contracts which were not the fault of said contractors, but were due to
the action of the Government, and to report to the next session of
Congress the result of said investigation, and whether said claims are,
in his opinion, subjects for the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims or
for the action of Congress upon the same. 29 Stat. ch. 399, p. 374.

CRAMP v. UNITED STATES.
239 U. S.

-Statement of the Case.

and. the circumstances out of which they arose and while
not attempting to pass on the merits of the same or to
determine the amount, if any, that should be allowed
on account of the matters mentioned, the fact exists
that there was delay in the completion of the contracts
beyond the time prescribed therein, and that such delay
was in some measure at least due to failure on part of
the Government to obtain and furnish the contractors
the armor for the vessels as required, and in my judgment
the interests of justice demand that they should be referred-to the Court of Claims, which can consider these
matters with more deliberation and care than could be
devoted to them by the committees of the two Houses
of Congress.
"It will be observed that the contractors claim relief
from the binding force of these agreements on the ground
that the same were entered into by them under duress."
After consideration, the court finds the items of cost
and expense during the period of delay now under consideration, three months and twenty-nine days, after
February 1, 1896, to amount to the sum of $27,984.99,
as already stated, and further finds:
"The claimant company submits for the consideration
of the court the evidence of the then Secretary of the
Navy and the president of the claimant company, who
signed the contract on behalf of their respective principals, along with certain other testimony, taken since the
decision in the case of the Indiana, to prove that at the
time 6f the signing of the contract as aforesaid it was
not within the minds of the parties so signing said contract that the language of paragraph six of the nineteenth clause of said contract, to wit: 'On the execution
of a final release to the United States, in such form as
shall be approved by the Secretary of the Navy, of all
claims of any kind or description under or by virtue of
this contract,' should embrace claims for unliquidated
VOL. ccxxxix-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Parties.

239 U.S.

damages of the character herein sued for, and that in so
far as the language of said final release includes such
unliquidated claims it was inserted by mistake, inadvertence, or accident, and did not express the true intent
of the parties, and that the same should be so reformed
as to exclude such claims.
"The court, after due consideration of the evidence
aforesaid as well as the evidence adduced on behalf of
the defendants, finds that there was no mutual mistake
between the parties in the execution of the contract or
the releases thereunder; that the language of said contract and releases expressed the intention and purpose
of the United States as previously agreed upon, though
the contracting party on behalf of the claimant company
may have mistaken its legal rights thereunder.
"Upon. the foregoing findings of fact the court finds
the ultimate facts, so far as they are questions of fact,
(1) that at the time of the execution of the releases set
forth in finding V the claimant company was not, by reason
of the acts or delays of the Government, under duress;
and (2) that there was no mutual mistake between the
parties in the execution of the contract or the final release thereunder, as the same expressed the true intent
and purpose of the United States, and the failure of the
officers of the claimant company to apprehend the legal
effect thereof was not the fault of the United States or
their officers, and that therefore the same are not the
subject of reformation."
As a conclusion of law, the court decided on the authority of United States v. Cramp, 206 U. S. 118, that
the claimant was not entitled to recover, and dismissed
the petition.
Mr. Joseph Gilfillan for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson for the United
States.

CRAMP v. UNITED STATES.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

After making the foregoing statement, MR. JUSTICE
DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The contract in this case and the release above set
forth are in the form shown in United States v. Cramp,
206 U. S. 118, and except for the considerations to be
later dealt with, the present case is ruled by that unless
relief in equity can be had, for it was there held that a
release executed in the matter of the contract for the
battleship Indiana included all claims which grew out
of the performance of the contract, although not .arising
from the actual construction of the vessel. In the subsequent case of Cramp and Sons v. United States, 216
U. S. 494, the case in 206 U. S. was distinguished because
of the different form of release executed in that case,
which contained a proviso that it should not include
claims arising under the contract other than those which
the Secretary of the Navy had jurisdiction to entertain.
As the recital of facts definitely shows, the Court of
Claims found, after consideration of the evidence adduced upon behalf of the claimant and the defendant,
that there was no mutual mistake between the parties
in the execution of the contract and release, and that
the contract and release expressed the intention and purpose of the United States, as previously agreed upon,
though the contracting party on behalf of the claimant
company had mistaken its legal rights. As ultimate
facts, the court found, so far as the same were questions
of fact, that there was no mutual, mistake between the
parties in the execution of the contract or the final release; that the same expressed the true intent and purpose
of the United States, and that the failure of the officers
of the claimant company to apprehend the legal effect
thereof was not the fault of the United States or its officers, and was not the subject of reformation.. If we are
governed by the findings of fact in this, as in other cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

coming from the Court of Claims, these findings conclude
the question of fact as to whether the testimony warranted a reformation of the contract upon equitable
principles.
The record contains a stipulation, signed by the Assistant Attorney General and counsel for the claimant,

in which it is recited that whereas one of the questions
raised and decided by the judgment of the Court of
Claims is the right of the claimant to equitable relief
through the reformation of the contract in suit, and the
reformation of certain releases, and that evidence was
introduced in behalf of both parties touching the facts
upon which the claimant founded its claim for equitable
relief, subject to the defendant's objection, and because
the record was very voluminous and contained the report
of many proceedings not relevant to the right to equitable
relief, certain evidence bearing upon that point was stipulated into the record. The stipulation concluded: "Providing, however, that on appeal recourse shall be had
to the record of the proceedings and evidence next hereinbefore mentioned, for no purpose whatsoever, except
for the consideration and determination of the question
with respect to the claimant's right to the equitable relief
aforesaid; it being understood and agreed that the Findings of Fact filed by the court May 29, 1911, shall not be
affected in any other manner or for any other purpose
by the said proceedings and evidence."
In. view of this state of the record, we are met with
the question, whether, in cases coming from the Court
of Claims, of the character of the one now under consideration, the findings of fact are conclusive, as in other
cases, or whether it is the duty of this court to determine
for itself from the evidence sent up whether the claimant
is entitled to equitable relief necessary to the establishment of his claim. The cages relied upon which it is
contended make it the duty of this court to independently

CRAMP v. UNITED STATES.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

consider the evidence are Harvey v. United States, 105
U. S. 671, and United States v. Old Settlers, 148 U. S. 427,
which we shall notice later on.
In this case the Secretary of the Navy, as it appears
from the recital of the facts, recommended that action
be brought in the Court of Claims, and it was accordingly
instituted in that court. The Court of Claims was given
jurisdiction under the act of March 3, 1887 (c. 359, ยง 1,
24 Stat. 505), of all claims "founded . . . upon any
contract, expressed or implied, with the Government of
the United States, or for damages liquidated or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort, in respect of which
claims the party would. be entitled to redress against the
United States either in a court of law, equity, or admiralty
if the United States were suable." By the rules of this
court, the record from the Court of Claims is required to
contain a transcript of the pleadings in the case, of the
final judgment or decree of the court, and of such interlocutory orders, rulings, judgments, and decrees as may
be necessary to a proper review of the case, and a finding by the Court of Claims of the facts in the case
established by the evidence in the nature of a special
verdict, but not the evidence establishing them. These
facts are to be the ultimate facts established by the evidence, and not the evidence upon which the ultimate
facts are based. Burr v. Des Moines R. R., 1 Wall. 99, 102.
In the case of District of Columbia v. Barnes, 197 U. S.
146, it was held, under an act of Congress permitting
parties to submit the justice of their claims against the
United States for work done in the District of Columbia
to the adjudication of a competent court, that equitable
jurisdiction was thereby conferred upon the Court of
Claims, sufficiently, at least, to order the reformation of
a written contract between the claimani" and the District,
and to award a money judgment on the contract so reformed. In that case it was said that the findings of fact

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

would not be reviewed in this court, but were regarded
as conclusive here, and that this court would determine
the questions of law properly brought to its attention
upon such findings.
In United States v. Milliken Imprinting Co., 202 U. S.
168, which was a suit in the Court of Claims praying for
the reformation of a contract and for damages for breach
of the same as reformed, this court held that the Court
of Claims, under the act of March 3, 1887, had jurisdiction to reform. the contract as a basis of a judgment for
money damages. In United States v. Sisseton and Wahpeton Bands, 208 U. S. 561, where a suit was brought under
a special act of Congress, giving the Court of Claims
jurisdiction to hear testimony and render final judgment,
this court held that it would not go behind findings of
fact made by the Court of Claims, citing McClure v.
United States, 116 U. S. 145, and District of Columbia v.
Barnes, supra. In the first of these cases, McClure v.
United States, a motion was made in this court to order
the Court of Claims -to transmit to this court all the evidence upon which the, case was heard and determined,
and in default of sending up such evidence to make certain findings. The suit was brought under a special
act of Congress, referring the claims of one Daniel McClure
to the Court of Claims, with jurisdiction to hear and
determine the same and, if the court should be satisfied
that moneys charged against said McClure as Assistant
Paymaster General were not in fact received by him, or
that other just and equitable grounds existed for credits
claimed by him, to make a decree, setting forth the amount
to which McClure was entitled, and that an appeal should
be allowed to either party as in other cases. This court,
after setting forth the statutory authority of this court
to make rules and regulations and the rules of this court
requiring findings of fact, declined to make the order,
and held that when Congress passes a special statute

CRAMP v. UNITED STATES.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

allowing a suit to be brought in the Court of Claims, with
the right of appeal to this court, the appeal will be governed by the rules applicable to cases arising under the
general jurisdiction of the court, unless provision is made
to the contrary in the special act. The court reviewed
the case of Harvey v. United States, 105 U. S., supra, and
stated that it was under a special statute authorizing
the Court of Claims to proceed in the adjustment of
questions between the claimants and the United States
as a court of equity jurisdiction, and, according, to the
principles of equity jurisprudence, reform such contract
and render such judgment as justice and right between
the claimants and the Government might require. This
court said that the appeal given to this court in the Harvey Case, under that particular statute, was an appeal in
equity which would bring up for review the facts as well
as the law, according to equity practice. In the Old
Settlers Case, 140 U. S. 427, supra, the action was brought
under a special act of Congress. In that case it was held
that it was the intention of Congress by such special act
to confer upon the Court of Claims the unrestricted'
latitude of a court of equity, stating an account, distributing a fund, and framing a decree, and that to that
statute the doctrine of the Harvey Case applied, and this
court proceeded to examine the evidence, after stating
that it also had the advantage of the findings of the Court
of Claims.
I The present case was brought under the jurisdiction
conferred upon the Court of Claims as in other cases.
It is true that the same was brought upon suggestion
of the Secretary under the act of 1896 requiring the Secretary to report whether,, in his judgment Congress should
act or the case should be referred to the Court of Claims.
In cases within the general jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims, it has jurisdiction to reform a contract for the
purpose of determining whether the claim if established

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

is a valid one against the United States. United States v.
Milliken Imprinting Co., 202 U. S., supra. There is no
good reason which authorizes this court in such cases to
undertake a consideration of voluminous records and
conflicting testimony to determine a matter which is
committed to the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims in
exercising the authority conferred by Congress upon
that court, -and which is specifically within the rules of
this court, made under authority of Congress, requiring
the Court of Claims to certify findings of fact and conclusions of law. The Court of Claims was established
for the purpose of considering the right of claimants to
recover against the United States, and when it finds facts
upon matters within its authority that should be conclusive under the rules unless Congress otherwise provides.
It follows that upon the facts found the claimant was
not entitled to recover.
Nor do we find any room for the application in this
case of the doctrine laid down in United States v. Clark,
96 U. S. a7, in which it is held that where the court certifies the evidence, and it appears that there is none to
warrant its legal conclusion, a question of law is presented which may be determined here. In this case we
are of opinion that there was ample testimony to warrant the conclusion of the Court of Claims, as stated in
its findings. It certainly cannot be said that there was
no supporting testimony, so as to make the question one
of law and not of fact. It does not appear that either
of the parties understood that the contract or release
should be reduced to writing in any other form than as
it was actually written. There was no mistake in the
form of the instrument. United States v. Milliken Imprinting Co., 202 U. S., supra, page 177. The testimony
of the former Secretary of the Navy and of the Secretary
in office at the time the release was signed to the effect
that it was not believed that it would cover claims for

CRAMP v. UNITED STATES.
239 U. S.

McKENNA, J., dissenting.

damages for delay, if competent for any purpose whatsoever, certainly did not show that mutual mistake of the
parties which upon well-established principles of equity
jurisprudence requires the reformation of the contract,
and certainly no such special circumstances were developed of fraud, duress, or oppression, as would necessarily require relief against a mistake of law.
We find no error in the judgment of the Court of Claims,
and the same is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissents from the opinion and
judgment in this case. In his opinion, the Court of Claims,
in view of the statute of June 10, 1896, authorizing and
directing the Secretary of the Navy to examine the
claims here involved, and to report to Congress the result of his investigation, and whether such claim was in
his opinion subject to the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims or for the action of Congress, implied the intent
of Congress that claims of this character should be considered upon broad equitable grounds. Thus considered,
Mr. Justice McKenna thinks the claimant entitled to
recover for the delay resulting from the fault of the Government notwithstanding the form in which the final
receipt was drawn and executed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

