OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Parties.

239 U. S.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. LLOYD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 296.

Argued November 29, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.

The Employers' Liability Act as amended in 1910 expressly provides
that the state court has jurisdiction of actions thereunder and no
case brought in the state court thereunder is removable to the
Federal court merely because of diversity of citizenship.
The right of removal cannot be established by a petition which simply
traverses the facts alleged in the complaint; the state court is only
required to surrender its jurisdiction over a non-resident defendant
joined with a resident when the facts alleged fairly raise the issue
of fraud in the joinder.
An order of non-suit in the trial court as to the resident defendant from
which plaintiff availed of a right of review by appeal to the higher
court, does not make the case removable as to the non resident defendant. American Car Co. v. Kettelhake, 236 U. S. 311.
There having been testimony supporting plaintiff's allegations that he
was engaged in interstate commerce, and the court having charged
that the burden was on plaintiff to prove such allegation, the issue
was properly left to the jury.
The conclusion of the state court, fully supported by the record that
no issue was made or submitted to the trial court as to assumption of
risk and therefore, under state practice no question concerning that
subject is presented on appeal,denies no right of Federal character.
166 North Carolina, 24, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of the refusal of
the state court to remove an action to the Federal Court
and of its judgment in an action brought under the Employers' Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John M. Wilson with whom Mr. L. E. Jeffries
and Mr. H. O'B. Cooper were on the brief for plaintiff in
error.

Mr. Aubrey L. Brooks for defendant in error.

SOUTIHERN RAILWAY v. LLOYD.
239 U. S.

MR.

JUSTICE DAY

Opinion of the Court.

delivered the opinion of the court.

W. L. Lloyd, herein called the plaintiff, brought his
action in the Superior Court of Guilford County, North
Carolina, against the defendant, the Southern Railway
Company, joined with its lessor, the North Carolina
Railroad Company. The action was brought under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, c. 149,
35 Stat. 65, as amended April 5, 1910, c. 143, 36 Stat. 291.
The North Carolina Railroad Company is a corporation
of the State of North Carolina, owning a railroad line
extending from Goldsboro, North Carolina, to Charlotte,
in the same State. The Southern Railway Company
is organized under the laws of the State of Virginia, and
is a conmon carrier engageu in interstate commerce,
transporting freight and passengers from the city of Washington, District of Columbia, through Greensboro, and
over the tracks of the North Carolina Railroad Company through Spencer, Salisbury and Charlotte.
The petition charges that the Southern Railway Company was, at the time of the injuries complained of,
operating as lessee of the North Carolina Railroad Company the roads and side tracks at Spencer; that on January 12, 1911, plaintiff was employed as an engineer by.
the defendant, Southern Railway Company, upon its
freight trains running over said line of road from Spencer,
North Carolina, to Monroe, Virginia, and was engaged
in interstate traffic; that upon said date he was directed
as engineer to take charge of a certain engine at Spencer,
to ascertain whether the same was in serviceable condition, as it had just come from the repair shops; that while
he was operating the engine on one of the side tracks of
the North Carolina Railroad Company's main line at
Spencer, and was oiling and inspecting the same, in stooping over the engine to ascertain if the ash-pan and other
equipments were in proper condition, a lever about two
VOL. ccxxxix-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

feet long, located at the rear of the driving wheel and the
lower side of the engine, used for the purpose of operating
the damper to the ash-pan, tripped and viorently struck
the plaintiff in the forehead, causing serious harm and
injury; that the defective condition was known to the
Southern Railway Company, and unknown to the plaintiff; that the plaintiff, at the time of the injury, was employed by the Southern Railway Company for the purpose of transporting interstate commerce running to
and from Spencer, North Carolina, along the main line
of the Southern Railway Company, part of which said
line included the portion of said North Carolina lRailroad
Company's line leased by the Southern Railway Company from Greensboro, North Carolina, to Spencer, North
Carolina; that the engine upon which the plaintiff was
hurt was, and had been, exclusively used by the Southern
Railway Company in the transportation of interstate
commerce over the line of said road between Spencer and
Monroe, Virginia, and that the plaintiff, at the time of
his injury, was in charge of said engine. Negligence of the
Southern Railway Company is charged in furnishing the
plaintiff with an unsafe and dangerous engine, knowing
the same to be such, and thereby rendering the plaintiff's
employment hazardous and dangerous, and unnecessarily
exposing him to peril.
The Southern Railway Company in due season filed its
petition for removal of the case to the Distriot Court of
the United States for the Western District of North Carolina, because of its diversity of citizenship with the plaintiff, and alleging that the joinder of the North Carolina
Railroad Company, the local defendant, was fraudulently
made to avoid Federal jurisdiction; that the plaintiff was
not engaged in interstate commerce at the time of the
accident; that the engine upon which he was injured was
not engaged in any kind of commerce at the time of the
accident; and that these allegations in the petition were

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. LLOYD.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fraudulent and false, which the plaintiff knew, or could
have ascertained by the exercise of the slightest diligence
upon his part. The court refused to remove the case,
to which refusal the Southern Railway Company excepted.
Upon issue joined, the case came on for trial at the
February Term, 1913, of the Superior Court of Guilford
County. At the close of plaintiff's testimony, the court intimated that there was no cause of action against the North
Carolina Railroad Company; upon this intimation a nonsuit was taken as to that company. Thereupon the
Southern Railway Company filed a second petition for
removal which the court, after argument, granted, and
an order was made, removing the case to the District
Court of the United States for the Western District of
North Carolina. The plaintiff excepted to this order of
removal; and to the non-suit as to the North Carolina
Railroad Company, and upon appeal to the Supreme
Court of North Carolina that court held that the case
should not have been removed, and remanded it to the
Superior Court of Guilford County for trial. 162 Nor. Car.
485.
The case coming on again for trial in the Superior Court,
the Southern Railway company renewed its objections to
the jurisdiction by a plea, and set up that the case had
been docketed in the District Court of the United States
for the Western District of North Carolina, that no motion had been made to remand the same, that the order
removing it had not been revoked, and that the case was
then pending for trial in the District Court as aforesaid.
The North Carolina Railroad Company also filed a plea
to the jurisdiction. These pleas were overruled, and uponi
trial a verdict and judgment was rendered in favor of the
plaintiff. Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of North
Carolina, that judgment was affirmed. 166 Nor. Car. 24.
From the statement of the case already made, it is
apparent that the plaintiff sought to recover under the

OCTOBER TEIM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

Federal Employers' Liability Act, joining both railroad
companies upon the theory that the lessor company
remained liable under the law of North Carolina upon the
cause of action asserted by the plaintiff. See North Carolina R. R. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248. On the face of the
petition a case was made invoking the jurisdiction of the
state court to recover under the Federal act, because of
the negligence charged. That the state court had jurisdiction of such an action is expressly provided by the
Federal statute. Act of April 5, 1910, c. 143, 36 Stat. 291.
In no case can the right of removal be established by a
petition to remove which amounts simply to a traverse
of the facts alleged in the plaintiff's petition, and in that
way undertaking to try the merits of a cause of action,
good upon its face. Chesa. & Ohio Rwy. v. Cockrell, 232
U. S. 146. It is only in cases wherein the facts alleged
in the petition for removal are sufficient to fairly raise the
issue of fraud that the state court is required to surrender
its jurisdiction. The order of non-suit in the trial court
as to the North Carolina Railroad Company, appealed
from by plaintiff with the right of review in the Supreme
Court of the State, did not make the case removable
as to the Southern Railway Company. American Car Co.
v. Kettelhake, 236 U. S. 311. Moreover, as we shall see
.later, under the Employers' Liability Act, no case is
removable merely because of diversity of citizenship.
-The act of 1910, supra, expressly gives jurisdiction to
the state court, and provides that no case arising under
its provisions brought in a state court of competent jurisdiction shall be removed to any court of the United States.
Section 28 of the Judicial Code, 36 Stat. 1087, 1094, contains a like provision, and expressly provides that no case
arising under the Employers' Liability Act or any amendment thereto, brought in a state court of competent jurisdiction, shall be removed to any court of the United States.
The question of the effect of this provision upon the right

SOUTHERN RAILWAY v. LLOYD.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to remove a case because of diversity of citizenship, since
the passage of the act referred to, was before this court
and passed upon in Kansas City Southern Rwy. v. Leslie,
238 U. S. 599. It was therein held that there was no authority to remove such action from the state court to
the Federal court because of diversity of citizenship. Nor
did the alleged fraudulent joinder of the local defendant
in the state court give such right. North CarolinaR. R. v.
Zachary, supra. And see Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific
Ry. v. Whiteaker, decided in this court, December 20,
1915, ante, p. 421. Such right did not arise from the allegation of the removal of the petition that the injury did
not happen in interstate commerce. Chesa. & Ohio R. R.
v. Cockrell, supra. It follows that the state court did not
err in its judgment as to the right of removal upon the
facts presented in this case.
As to other questions of a Federal character, they may
be briefly disposed of. It is insisted that the trial court
should have given the instruction requested by the railroad company to the effect that upon the facts shown the
plaintiff was not engaged in interstate commerce at the
time of his injury. Upon this subject there is testimony
in the record to support the allegations of plaintiff's petition and the charge to the jury as given. The trial court
charged that in order to recover, the burden was upon
.. the plaintiff to show that at the time he received his injury he was engaged in interstate commerce. In refusing
the request asked, and leaving the issue to the jury, the
trial court committed no error, and the Supreme Court of
the State rightly affirmed the judgment in that respect.
North CarolinaR. R. v. Zachary, supra; Pederson v. Del.,
Lack: & West. R. R., 229 U. S. 146; New York Central
R. R. v. Carr, 238 U. S. 260; Pennsylvania Co. v. Donat,
decided by this court November 1, 1915, ante, p. 50.
The court properly refused the request as to contributory negligence and gave the rule laid down in the Em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

ployers' Liability Act. As to assumption of risk, the
Supreme Court held that no such issue was made or submitted to the trial court, (a conclusion fully supported by
the record,) and therefore under the state practice no question concerning that subject was presented on appeal.
This conclusion denied no right of a Federal character.
Judgment affirmed.

HAPAI v. BROWN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
HAWAII.
No. 120. Argued December 17, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.
Where there is no doubt that the import of the decree pleaded as res
judicata to a bill to quiet title was to the effect that plaintiff in the
former action had no title to the property, the inquiry in the subsequent action is narrowed to the question of jurisdiction of the court
rendering the decree pleaded.
This court will not presume that the highest court of the Hawaiian
Islands did not know its own powers or did not decide in accordance
with law of the Kingdom. John Ii Estate v. Brown, 235 U. S. 342.
This court affirms the decision of the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Hawaii holding that the determination of the Supreme Court of
the Hawaiian Islands in a suit for partition made without any objection by any of the parties and not appealed from is valid and binding
upon, and res judicata as to, the same parties and their privies in
a subsequent suit involving the same land.
Even though the party making a motion to dismiss'for want of jurisdiction does not press it, this court is not at liberty to disregard it.
When, owing to confusion in the statutes, there is doubt as to whether
appeal or writ of error is the proper course, this court will, if possible,
save a party's rights from being lost by mistake in technicalities, and
so held that, under ยง 246, Judicial Code, writ of error was the proper
course to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of Hawaii in a
case involving over $5000 in which trial by jury was waived.
21 Hawaii, 756, affirmed.

