OCTOBER TERM, 1915..
Counsel for Parties.

239 U. S.

CLEVELAND, CINCINNATI, CHICAGO & ST.
LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. DETTLEBACH.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS, EIGHTH DISTRICT,
STATE OF OHIO.

No. 229. Argued November 29, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.
The effect of an express contract, made for the purpose of interstate
transportation, must be determined in the light of the Act to Regu-

late Commerce.
Whether the responsibility of an interstate carrier as warehouseman

of goods carried from another State and not called for by the consignee until after the time specified in the bill of lading after arrival
at destination is to be measured by the valuation in the bill of lading
is a question Federal in its nature.
Under the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended by the Hepburn
Act of 1906, the term transportation embraces all services in connection with the shipment, including storage of goods after arrival at
destination.
The valuation expressed in a bill of lading of goods shipped in interstate commerce, and a limitation of the liability of the carrier made
by the shipper for the purpose of obtaining the lower of two rates of
freight, is, under the Carmack Amendment, valid and binding upon
the shipper, and applies not only to the responsibility of the railroad
company as a carrier while the goods are in transit but also to its
responsibility as a warehouseman while holding the goods in storage
after arrival at destination and notice to the consignee.
THE facts, which involve the responsibility of a carrier
for goods under the applicable provisions of the Interstate
Commerce Act, and the Carmack Amendment thereto,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward A. Foote, with whom Mr. Frank L. Littleton was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. C. Young, with whom Mr. Jesse A. Fenner was
on the brief, for defendant in error.

CLEVELAND & ST. LOUIS RY. v. DETTLEBACH.
239 U. S.

589

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
The court whose judgment we have here under review sustained a judgment rendered by an inferior state
court in favor of Dettlebach and against the Railway
Company for the market value of certain goods which,
having been shipped in interstate commerce, were lost
through the negligence of the Railway Company (the
terminal carrier) while in its possession as warehouseman
at the place of destination; overruling the contention that,
because of a limitation of liability agreed upon by plaintiff's agent in consideration of a reduced rate of freight
and contained in the bill of lading that was issued by the
initial carrier, and by force of the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act and its amendments, especially the
Hepburn Act of 1906, the recovery ought to be limited in
accordance with the stipulation. This question, it may be
observed, as affecting the warehouseman's responsibility,
was not passed upon in Boston & Maine R. R. v. Hooker,
233 U. S. 97, 109.
The facts are as follows: Dettlebach, the plaintiff, on
September 18, 1911, shipped certaia packages of merchandise, described as household goods, over the Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy Railway and connecting lines from
Denver, Colorado, consigned to his wife at Cleveland,
Ohio. They were received for transportation under the
terms of a bill of lading, prepared in the form approved
and recommended by the Interstate Commerce Commission in its report of June 27, 1908 (14 I. C. C. 346,
352; 22 Annl. Rep. I. C. C. 1908, p. 57), which contained
the following provision:
"It is mutually agreed, as to each carrier of all or any of
said property over all or any portion of said route to destination, and as to each party at any time interested in all
or any of said property, that every service to be performed

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Courl,.

239 U. S.

hereunder shall be subject to all the conditions, whether
printed or written, herein contained (including conditions
on back hereof), and which are agreed to by the shipper
and accepted for himself and his assigns."
Among the conditions printed upon the back were the
following:
"SEc. 3.
. .
The amount of any loss or damage
for which any carrier is liable shall be computed on the
basis of the value of the property . . . at the place
and time of shipment under this bill of lading, unless a
lower value has been represented in writing by the shipper
or has been agreed upon or is determined by the classification or tariffs upon which the rate is based, in any of which
events such lower value shall be the maximum amount to
govern such computation, whether or not such loss or damage occurs from negligence.
.
"
"SEc. 5. Property not removed by the party entitled to
receive it within forty-eight hours (exclusive of legal holidays) after notice of its arrival has been duly sent or given
may be kept in car, depot, or place of delivery of the carrier, or warehouse, subject to a reasonable charge for
storage and to carrier's responsibility as warehouseman
only. .
Upon the face of the bill of lading was the following
declaration signed by plaintiff's agent: "I hereby declare
the valuation of the property shipped under this bill of
lading does not exceed $10.00 per cwt."
The court found as a fact that the shipper by consenting
to the limitation received a consideration in the shape of a
substantial reduction in the freight rate, and that this
supported the agreement to limit the company's liability.
No question was made but that the agreement was in
accordance with the filed tariff.
The goods thus shipped were transported by the initial
carrier to the junction between its line and that of defend-

CLEVELAND & ST. LOUIS RY. v. DETTLEBACH.
239 U. S.

591

Opinion of the Court.

ant, and transported by the latter company to destination,
where they arrived on September 27. They were not
called for by the consignee, and remained in defendant's
possession as warehouseman until November 1, 1911,
when, through its negligence, certain of the goods, of the
market value of $2,792, were lost.
This action.having been brought to recover the value of
the goods lost, and the claim of Federal right already mentioned having been made and overruled, a verdict and
judgment went against defendant for the market value of
the goods, and this was affirmed by the Court of Appeals,
Eighth District, State of Ohio. The Supreme Court of the
State declined to review the judgment. The case comes
here under ยง 237, Jud. Code.
It is no longer open to question that if the loss had
occurred in the course of transportation upon defendant's
line, the limitation of liability agreed upon with the initial
carrier, as this was, for the purpose of securing the lower of
two rates of freight, would have been binding upon plaintiff, in view of the Carmack Amendment. Adams Express
Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S.491, 509; Kansas Southern Ry.
v. Carl, 227 U. S.639, 648, 654; Mo., Kans. & Tex. Ry.

v. Harriman,227 U. S. 657, 668. The question is, whether
the limitation of liability may be deemed to have spent its
force upon the completion of the carrier's service as such,
or must be held to control, also, during the ensuing relation of warehouseman. The Court of Appeals, recognizing

the question as one of difficulty, reasoned thus:
"To occupy this twofold relation is of advantage to the
company. As soon as the company can occupy it by replacing with it its former relation as a common carrier, it
obtains the benefit of the rule of ordinary care instead of
the higher degree of vigilance which the law charges upon
carriers for hire. And the company is further advantaged
by an early shifting of its status as carrier to that of warehouseman, through its right in the latter capacity to

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

charge for the storage of consigned goods, from the time
when its relation to them as carrier ceases."
The court considered that the declaration of value
stamped upon the bill of lading and signed by plaintiff's
agent, carried no suggestion that it should inure to the
advantage of a warehouseman after becoming inert for the
relief of the carrier, and that the custody and protection of
the goods as warehouseman is a distinct service from that
of their transportation, and for it additional compensation
may be charged; proceeding as follows: "The additional
compensation is not at all diminished in this case because
of the agreement of limitation of liability. The reduction
in the rate of carriage which can be used as a consideration
to support that agreement, is no consideration for a like
limitation of the liability as warehouseman, because there
is no reduction in warehousing charges provided or stipulated for in the transaction. It is not easy to see why the
consideration-not a large one-which is permitted to
support the agreement to a limited liability on the part of
the carrier, should do double duty by serving also to uphold a like limitation of the liability of a warehouseman,-the latter not agreeing to abate any part of proper
storage charges. To so extend the contract of release
would give an advantage to the warehouseman, but none
to the owner. To allow that consideration would be to
permit the carrier to cast off his obligation as carrier and
take up a lighter burden, while he denies to the.shipper all
right to share in the benefit of the changed relation. The
rate which the warehouseman may charge for storage remains unaffected by the release of liability as a carrier.
The warehouseman could collect the reasonable value of
his service whether the limitation of the carrier's liability
was or was not stipulated. He could not be compelled to
take less because of the stipulation. He could collect no
more if the stipulation had not been made."
We recognize the cogency of the reasoning from the

CLEVELAND & ST. LOUIS RY. t,. DETTLEBACH.
239 U. S.

593

Opinion of the Court.

standpoint of the common-law responsibility of a railway
company as carrier and as warehouseman. But we have
to deal with the effect of an express contract, made for the
purpose of interstate transportation, and this must be
determined in the light of the Act of Congress regulating
the matter. The question is Federal in its nature. Mo.,
Kans. & Tex. Ry. v. Harriman, 227 U. S. 657, 672; Atchison &c. Ry. v. Robinson, 233 U. S. 173, 180.
The provision that we have quoted from the contract is
to the effect that "every service to be performed hereunder" is subject to the conditions contained in it. One
of these conditions is, in substance, that where a valuation
has been agreed upon between the shipper and the carrier
such value shall be the maximum amount for which any
carrier may be held liable, whether or not the loss or damage occurs from negligence. And that this, as a mere
matter of construction, applies to the relation of warehouseman as well as to the strict relation of carrier, is
manifest from the further provision that property not.
removed within 48 hours after notice of arrival may be
kept "subject to a reasonable charge for storage and to
carrier's responsibility as warehouseman only." Thus,
"any loss or damage for which any carrier is liable" includes not merely the responsibility of carrier, strictly so
called, but "carrier's responsibility as warehouseman"
also.
And this is quite in line with the letter and policy of the
Commerce Act, and especially of the amendment of
June 29, 1906, known as the Hepburn Act (34 Stat. 584,
c. 3591), which enlarged the definition of the term "transportation," (this, under the original act, included merely
"all instruments of shipment or carriage") so as to include "cars and other vehicles and all instrumentalities
and facilities of shipment or carriage, irrespective of ownership or of any contract, express or implied, for the use
thereof and all services in connection with the receipt, delivVOL. ccxxxix-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

ery, elevation, and transfer in transit, ventilation, refrigeration, or icing, storage, and hauling of property transported; and it shall be the duty of every carrier subject to
the provisions of this Act to provide and furnish such
transportation upon reasonable request therefor, and to
establish through routes and just and reasonable rates
applicable thereto. All charges made for any service rendered or to be rendered in the transportationof passengers
or property as aforesaid, or in connection therewith, shall
be just and reasonable; and every unjust and unreasonable charge for such service or any part thereof is prohibited
and declared to be unlawful."
From this and other provisions of the Hepburn Act it
is evident that Congress recognized that the duty of
carriers to the public included the performance of a
variety of services that, according to the theory of the
common law, were separable from the carrier's service as
carrier, and, in order to prevent overcharges and discriminations from being made under the pretext of performing such additional services, it enacted that so far as
interstate carriers by rail were concerned the entire body.
of such services should be included together under the
single term "transportation" and subjected to the provisions of the Act respecting reasonable rates and the like.
The recommendation of the Interstate Commerce Commission for the adoption of the uniform bill of lading was
of course made in view of this legislation, and while not
intended to be and not in law binding upon the carriers, it
is entitled to some weight. It recognizes-whether correctly or not, is a question not now presented-the right
of the carrier to make a charge, the amount of which
has not been definitely fixed in advance, for storage as
warehouseman in addition to the charge for transportation; but at the same time it recognizes that a valuation
lower than the actual value may be agreed upon between
the shipper and the carrier, or determined by the classifi-

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. HORTON.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

cation or tariffs upon which the rate is based; and it is a
necessary corollary that what should be a reasonable
charge for storage would be determined in the light of all
the circumstances, including the valuation placed upon
the goods.
We conclude that, under the provisions of the Hepburn
Act and the terms of the bill of lading, the valuation placed
upon the property here in question must be held to apply
to defendant's responsibility as warehouseman.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. HORTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 541.

Argued November 30, Decembcr 1, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.

An employd who knows of a defect arising from the employer's negligence and appreciates the risk attributable thereto and continues in
the employment without objection or promise of reparation, assumes
the risk notwithstanding it arises from the employer's breach of
duty. Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 504.
Where the employer promises reparation of such a defect and the employ6 relying on such promise continues, he does not, during such
time as is reasonably required for its fulfilment, assume the risk unless at least the danger is so imminent that no ordinarily prudent
man would, under the circumstances, rely upon such a promise. Id.
Where, as in the present case, the injury was caused by the absence of a
glass protector in front of a water gauge which burst, and the employ6 had continued after knowledge and promise of reparation, held
that the trial court did not err in refusing to hold as matter of law

