OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

ter of overtime. The natural understanding of it by people
untrained in the law, if not by everybody, would be that
the unjustified retention of the plaintiff at his work for
more than sixteen hours would make -the defendant liable
whether the retention contributed to the injury or not.
The statute that excludes the defences of contributory
negligence and assumption of risk in such a case is not
the Hours of Labor Act itself but the subsequent Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, §§ 3, 4;
35 Stat. 65, 66. The latter has that operation only when
the breach of the law contributes to the injury. St. Louis &
Iron Mountain Ry. v. McWhirter, 229 U. S. 265, 279, 280.
We do not think it possible to read the absolute language
of the instruction as implicitly limited to such a case.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dissent.

UNITED STATES v. NORMILE.
NORMILE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 83, 84. Argued December 3, 1915.-Decided December 13, 1915.
A contract to produce a result does not bring the means employed to
provide it into the contract. United States v. O'Brien, 220 U. S. 321.
In this case, a contractor was not allowed the expense of erecting
temporary dams because the Government engineer suggested that
it be placed in a certain location that proved impracticable, necessitating relocation and rebuilding, as the contract only called for the
location of the permanent structure by the engineer.
An extension of time requested by claimant, without any suggestion
that it was made necessary by fault of the Government or by the
violence of the elements, held, in view of the warning given on granting.-the extension, not to absolve claimant from the extra expenses
specified in the contract in case such extension were allowed.

UNITED STATES v. NORMILE.
239 U. S.

Counsel for the United States.

A Government contractor in this case held not to be entitled to extra
compensation by reason of advanced prices in labor and material
due to outbreak of war, it appearing that the increased expense
was not due to any breach on the part of the United States.
49 Ct. Cl. 73, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of, and the

amounts due on, contracts for public works with the
United States, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank Carter Pope and Mr. Benjamin Carter for
Normile:
A liability is imposed on the United States by contracts
for public improvement.
There is inseparability of the government's plan from
action of engineer thereunder.
The administrative expense was wrongfully imposed on
the contractors; and there was a liability of United States
for the increased cost of work caused by the delay.
The United States, not the claimants, is estopped.
In support of the claimants' contentions, see District of
Columbia v. Gallaher, 124 U.. 'S. 505; Insurance Co. v.
Dutcher, 95 U. S. 269; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Omaha, 200
U. S. 100; Simpson v. United States, 172 U. S. 372; Topliff v. Topliff, 122 U. S. 121 Christie v. United States,
237 U. S. 234; United States v. Gibbons, 109 U. S. 200;
Maryland Steel Co. v. United States, 235 U. S. 451; United
States v. United Engineering Co., 234 U. S. 236; Hinckley
v. Pittsburgh Steel Co., 121 U. S. 264; Phila., Wil. &
Balt. R. R. v. Howard, 13 How. 307; Moore, Receiver, v.
United States, 46 Ct. Cls. 139; Spearin v. United States,
Ct. Cls. (not reported); Kelly v. United States, 31 Ct. Cls.
361; Fitzgeraldv. First National Bank, 114 Fed. Rep. 474;
Wyandotte v. King Bridge Co., 100 Fed. Rep. 196.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Huston Thompson, with
whom Mr. Philip M. Ashford was on the brief, for the
United States.

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinibn of the Cour.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

239 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a claim for extra expenses incurred in performing
a contract to build a dam and certain accessories on the
Yamhill River, Oregon. The contract was made on
March 11, 1898, and required the claimants to begin
work as prescribed by paragraph 41 of the specifications,
to complete the keeper's dwelling, &c. within sixty days
from notification, and the whole work before December 31,
1898. Paragraph 41 of the specifications stated that the
sites for the construction had not yet been purchased and
that no work would be begun until they were secured.
It then provided that within ten days after notification
that the sites had been secured and the contract had been
approved, the contractor 'must proceed with the work in a
vigorous manner; he must complete the keeper's dwelling,
woodshed, walks, fences, etc., within sixty days from date
of notification, and the whole contract on or before
December 31, 1898.' It added that because of the spring
rise of the Willamette, &c., it was probable that work on
the lock and dam cbuld not be begun before June at the
earliest; and that the date of completion had been set
because it was desired that all work should be finished
during one low water season-the meaning of which
was known by the claimants. Authority to purchase was
asked by telegraph on March 10 and granted on March 15.
The abstract of title and deeds were sent to the Chief
of Engineers on April 9 and 14, and the contractors, who
had given notice of their readiness to begin, were told on
April 9 that the deeds had been sent on. On April 29
a telegram was received showing encumbrances to be
removed before the deeds were accepted. On May 13
the attorney for the United States approved the title.
On May 12 the contractors began work on the keeper's
dwelling, &c. and on June 14 were given the notification to
proceed.

UNITED STATES v. NORMILE.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Before June 14, 1898, considerable work had been done,
material had been assembled and labor employed. The
war with Spain began on April 21, 1898, raising the price
of labor and materials. The increased cost is found, but
it is found also that this increase was not shown to be
due to any breach of contract by the United States and
that the claimants did not have room and facilities for
storing large consignments of materials. The claimants,
however, insist upon this item being allowed, and make it
the ground of their cross appeal.
In 1899 after a lock wall had been built at right angles
with the line of the wing dam and parallel to the line of the
stream it became necessary to divert the water from the
line of the wing dam in order that the latter might be
built. This had to be done by sending the water through
the lock chamber and to that end it was necessary to
build a temporary dam. The claimants had no civil engineer, although they commanded some experience. They
asked the local engineer in charge for the United States
where the temporary dam should be placed. He indicated
a site near the head of the lock, where the river was narrow, as the only suitable place, and the claimants started
upon the dam in June. The up stream end of the lock
chamber was closed with a lift-wall, and to turn the water
through the chamber it had to be raised sixteen feet.
The bottom of the river was inclined to disintegrate and
when the water was raised to twelve feet the dam broke.
Two more attempts were made with the same result.
Early in 1900 the claimants applied to the local engineer
for leave to change the place and to cut a hole through
the lift-wall, which was granted and the dam was built.
The bottom of the river at the new site was similar to that
at the old and it would not have been possible to construct
the dam there without the relief afforded by the hole.
The Court of Claims allowed the cost of the last two
temporary dams and the United States appeals.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

The specifications provided that if the time for performance should be extended all expenses for inspection and
superintendence should be deducted. The claimants requested an extension of time, not suggesting violence of
the elements, contemplated in the contract as a ground,
or fault of the United States. The extension was granted
with a warning that it would not absolve them from the
above expenses. The Court of Claims allowed the claimants the expenses accrued during the time of building the
second and third temporary darns, from which allowance
also the United States appeals.
Taking up first the allowance for the unsuccessful temporary dams and charges for superintendence during the
time consumed in constructing them we are of opinion
that the United States is entitled to prevail in its appeal.
The contract was silent as to them, and did not embrace
them. A contract to produce a result does not bring the
means employed to provide it into the contract. Bacon v.
Parker, 137 Massachusetts, 309, 311. United States v.
O'Brien, 220 U. S. 321, 327. They remain under the control of the contractors alone. The claimants rely upon
specification 40: "The lines and levels for this work will
be established on the ground by the engineers, and the
contractor must conform and keep thereto." But this
refers to the work, the permanent structure, not to the
transitory instrumentality used in building it. While the
engineer in answer to the claimants pointed out a place
for the temporary dam, it does not appear to have been
ordered to be placed there. Moreover the site seems to
have been as good as any other, the final success having
been achieved by cutting a hole in the lift-wall of the
lock chamber, not by the change of the place. There is
nothing to show that the claimants could not have left this
opening, or have obtained leave to make it earlier. Leave
was granted as soon as asked. The mode of constructing
the temporary dam was wholly the claimants' affair.

GREAT NORTHERN RY. v. OTOS.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

Upon the cross appeal also we are of opinion that the
Government is in the right. If it had attempted to hold
the claimants to the time originally mentioned in the contract the question might be different, but we see no ground
for a claim on their part to hold the United States liable
for delay. Specification 41,, the substance of which has
been stated, is inconsistent with the implication of an
undertaking that the claimants shall be notified to begin
within any particular time. The findings hardly warrant
the statement in the opinion that the delay from May 13
to June 14 was chargeable to the defendant's neglect. It
simply is left unexplained. The notice was given in time
to begin work on the lock and dam as early as was contemplated by specification 41. But further, as is pointed
out by the court below, the prices had advanced before
the supposed neglect began---not to speak of the finding
that the claimants had not the facilities to accumulate
material even if they had been notified at an earlier date.
Judgment reversed. Petition dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of these cases.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. OTOS.,
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
NO. 429. Argued November 30, 1915.-Decided December 13, 1915.

A car, coming from another State, which is merely delayed. in the State
of destination before reaching, and which does finally reach, its
destination, is not, by reason of such delay, withdrawn from interstate commerce and the operation of the Safety Appliance Act.
While the supplementary Safety Appliance Act of 1910 relieves the

