LUDELING v. CHAFFE.
Syllabus.

was organized;" and the plaintiff again excepted in due
form.
Although the subsequent proceedings had at the trial, and
stated in the original bill of exceptions, do not appear on this
record to have been excepted to, yet those proceedings may
properly be considered for the purpose of showing, as they do
beyond doubt, that the judge's rulings in favor of the defendant proceeded solely upon the incompetent evidence to the
admission and consideration of which the plaintiff had persistently excepted; and that it was only by the judge's statements that that evidence was decisive against the plaintiff's
right to recover, even if the action was not barred, and that
he should instruct the jury accordingly, that the plaintiff was
induced not to put in any testimony upon the issue of the statute of limitations. If the plaintiff had put in its testimony
on that issue, the case would have stood just as it did when
before this court at a former stage; and, as was then adjudged, a direction to return a verdict, without submitting
that issue to the jury, would have been erroneous, and would
have entitled the plaintiff to a new trial. 130 U. S. 693.
The admission of the incompetent evidence on the issue of
p ? tiel cor))oration having thus clearly prejudiced the plaintiff, the order must be
Judgment reversed,and case remanded,with directions to set
aside the verdict and to order a new tial.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

dissented.

LUDELING v. CHAFFE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE

. iTE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 178. Argued and submitted January 8,1892. -Decided

February 29,1892.

The highest court of a State decided that a judgment of another court of
the State, granting a petition to revive a judgment under a statute of
limitations -Qf the State authorizing this to be done upon citation "to

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.
the defendant or his representative," in. order to prevent the running of
the statute, could not, at the suit of one claiming under the original
defendant, be collaterally impeached because the only person cited was
the assignee in bankruptcy of that defendant. Held, that the decision
was not subject to review by this court on writ of error.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. S. I. Hubbard and Xlr. Solicitor General for plaintiff
in error.
-Mr. Chtrles J. Boatner, for defendants in error, submitted
:n his brief.
MR. JusTIcE GRAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a petition, filed May 8, 1884, in the fifth District
Court of tile parish of Ouachita in the State of Louisiana, to
restrain the execution against land in that parish of a judgment rendered June 28, 1882, in favor of the defendants, by
which that land (to which the petitioner claimed title under a
conveyance from Mrs. Eliza W. Warfield, dated June 30, 1875)
was subjected to a judicial nibrtgdge arising out of a judgment
for money, recovered by the defendants March 20, 1874, in a
personal action against Mrs. Warfield. The petitioner alleged
that the original judgment against Mrs. Warfield had been
prescribed by virtue of article 3547 of the Civil Code of Louisiana, (which is copied in the margin,') and that a judgment
1 "All judgments for money, whether rendered within or without the
State, shall be prescribed by the lapse of ten years from the rendition of
such judgments: Provided, however, that any party interested in any judgihent may have the same revived, at any time before it is prescribed, by having a citation issued according to law to the defendant or his representative
from the court which rendered the judgment, unless defenfdant or his representative show good cause why the judgment should not be revived; and if
such defendant be absent and not represented, the court may appoint a curator ad hoe-to represent him in the proceedings, upon which curator ad hoc
the citation shall be served. Any judgment revived as above provided shall
continue in full force for ten years from the date of the order of court
reviving the same, and any judgment may be revived as.often as the party
or parties interested may desire."

LUDELING v. CHAFFE.
Opinion of the Court.

since recovered by the defendants, reviving that judgment,
was null and void, for want of sufficient notice. The material
facts bearing on the validity of the judgment of revival were
as follows:
On September 11, 1876, Mrs. Warfield was adjudged a bankrupt under the laws of the United States, and William T.
Atkins was appointed her assignee in bankruptcy, and as such
sold the property in her schedule, and rendered his final account on October 15, 1879, but was never discharged from his
duties as assignee. Mrs. Warfield never obtained her discharge in bankruptcy, and permanently removed in 1879 from
the State of Louisiana, and died in Tennessee in 1881, leaving
no heirs in Louisiana.
On February 8, 1884, the parish district court, upon the
application of.the defendants, appointed its clerk administrator
of Mrs. Warfield's estate, and he took an oath assuming the
administration. On February 9, 1884, the defendants filed
a petition in that court under said article of the Civil Code,
praying for a revival of the original judgment against Mrs.
Warfield, for the appointment of a curator ad hoc, and for a,
citation to such curator, to the administrator, and to Atkins,
assignee. A curator ad hoc was accordingly appointed, and he
and the administrator waived citation and appeared and answered. Atkins was served with a citation, and also appeared
and answered, denying all the allegations of the petition.
Judgment was thereupon rendered, on February 20, 1884,
reviving the original -judgment, and in March. 1884, was duly
recorded and reinscribed.
In the case at bar, the court refused the injunction prayed
for, and gave judgment for the defendants, and this judgment
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
The petitioner sued out this writ of error, which was
allowed by Chief Justice Bermudez, who added this memorandum: "In this case the court has passed upon no question,
except the method of interrupting prescription on a judgment
provided by the statute of the State, a matter within the arbitrary control of the State legislature, and involving no question of due process of law. Even as to this question, we have

OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

simply held tlat the judgmfent *of revival could not be questioned in the present form of action. I, do not consider that
any Federal question properly arises And was passed upon in
the case; but as one was presented which, it is clainmed, might
be considered to exist by the United States Supreme Court, I
grant the order."
. The grounds upon which the jurisdiction of this court is
invoked by the petitioner are that the state court, by holding
that the citation: to Atkins as assignee was valid and effectual
to support the judgment of revival, deprived the petitioner of
his property without due process of law, in violation of the
Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments of the Constitution of the
United States; and construed the Bankrupt Act of the United
States, and article 3547 of the-Civil Code of Louisiana, so as to
make them unconstitutional by thus depriving him of his property; and disregarded section 5057 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States, which provides that "no suit, either at law
or in equity, shall be maintainable in any court between an
assignee in bankruptcy and a person claiming an adverse inter;--st, touching any property or rights of property transferable
;o or vested in such assignee, unless brought within two
years from the time when the cause of action accrued for or
against such assignee," and thereby denied a right and immunity claimed by the petitioner under the Bankrupt Act 6f the
United*States.
But the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, as
appears by its opinion, copied in the record, and reported in
40 ta. Ann. 64-5, as well as by the Chief Justice's memorandum, above quoted, did not pass upon the question of the capacityof the assignee to represent the bankrupt in the proceedings to obtain the judgment of revival; and merely held that
this question could not. be-presented and decided in this collateral way, but only in a direct suit to annul that judgment,
bringing in all parties to it.
The question -presented to the inferior court of 'the State
upon the petition for the judgment of revival was whether the
assignee in bankruptcy was such a. representative of the original judgnent.debtor that a citation might issue to the'assignee

HORN SILVER MINING CO. v. NEW YORK.

305

Syllabus.

ruder the statute of limitations of Louisiana, for the purpose
of preventing a judgment, admitted to be valid, from being
prescribed within ten years from the time of its rendition.
The true construction of the statute of limitations in this respect, as well as the proper manner of reviewing the decision
of that question, if erroneous, was a matter of state law and
practice, in no way depending upon the Constitution of the
United States or upon any act of Congress.
In order to give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error to
review a judgment of a state court against a right claimed
under a statute of the United States, that right must be one of
the plaintiff in error, and not of a third person only. Giles
v. Little, 134 U. S. 645. The immunity or privilege of the
assignee in bankruptcy from being cited in these proceedings
could only be set up by the assignee himself, or by a person
claiming under him, and not by a person claiming under a
conveyance from the bankrupt before the bankruptcy. The
assignee, having appeared and answered to the petition for revival, and thereby submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the
state court, would have been bound by its judgment, if against
him. Winchester v. Heiskell, 119 U. S. 450; Ada'ms v. Cr'itten(fn, 133 U. S. 296. But he set up no title in himself, no judgment was rendered against him, and he has sued out no writ
of error. Section 505' of the Revised Statutes has therefore no
application to the case.
TFrit of eror dis-missedfor want of jurisZiction.

HORN SILVER MINING COMPANY v. NEW YORK

STATE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 48. Argued pnd submitted December 11, 1891.-Decided February 29; 1892.

The statute of New York of May 26, 1881, (Laws of 1881, c. 361,) imposing
a tax upon the corporate franchise or business of every corporation,
joint-stock company or association incorporated or organized under any
VOL. cxL-i-20

