OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

2primcfacie evidence both of novelty and utility, and neithei
of these presumptions has been rebutted by the evidence. On
the contrary, they are strengthened. No anticipation of the
design is shown, although the attempt has been made to prove
anticipation. The fact that it has been infringed by defendants, is sufficient to establish its utility, at least as against
them."
The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,
Reversed, and the case 'remandedwith directions to enter an
interlocutory decreefor the plaintif,and for further p2oceedings in conformity with this opinion.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. DENVER AND RIO GRANDE RAILROAD COMPANY.
DENVER AND RIO GRANDE RAILROAD COMPANY v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC
RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATf ES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Nos. 1095, 1109.

Suqbmitted January 7, 1092.-Decided March 7, 1892.

In the interpretation of any particular clause of a contract, the court is
reqfiired to examine the entire contract, and may also consider the relations of the parties, their connection with the subject matter of the
contract, and the circumstances under which it was made.
The Chicago, Rock Island and Colorado Railway Company contracted with
the Denver and Rio Grande Railroad Company for the use by the former
of the tracks, stations, sidings, switches, etc. of the latter company
between Colorado Springs and Denver, (except its shops at Burnham),
and also for its terminal facilities at Denver, and, having so contracted
made its connections and entered on the enjoyment of its rights under
the contract. Shortly afterwards the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
Railway Company was organized and acquired the property and rights
of the Chicago, Rock Island and Colorado Railway and entered into
the enjoyment of them, and its rights were recognized by the Denver
and Rio Grande Railroad Company. The Rock Island and Pacific Company then acquired a right to connect with the Union Pacific Railroad

ROCK ISLAND RAILWAY v. RIO GRANDE RAILROAD. 597
Statement of the Case.
Company at Limon, and to run its eastern trains over the tracks of-the
latter company to Denver, which it did. The distance from Limon to
Denver by this route was sixty-four miles less than by the way of Colorado Springs and the Denver and Rio Grande road. Although it had
diverted its Denver traffic, it continued to use the Rio Grande road for
its Pueblo traffic, and it claimed the use of the terminal facilities of that
road at Denver for all, and also the use of some land at Burnham not
actually used for shops. It also claimed the right under the contract
to put in its own switching forces and cleaning gangs. The Denver
and Rio Grande Company then gave notice that it would exclude from
the Denver terminals all business coming over the Union Pacific tracks.
Thereupon the Rock Island Company filed a bill- in equity and obtained
a restraining order. By amendments and supplemental bills there were
brought into the controversy other matters of difference between the
two companies and a final decree was made settling their rights under
the contract as follows: (1), that the new Rock Island Company was
the successor of the old, and had the right under the contract to operate its trains over the Rio Grande Company's line; (2), that it had not
the right, under the contract, to bring its trains to the Denver terminals
over the Union Pacific; (3), that it had the right to employ separate
switching crews and separate employ6s to perform other services in the
yards of the Rio Grande Company under the control and subject to the
direction of the agent of that company; (4), that the words "shops at
Burnham" in the contract included all lands used or procured for shop
purposes and appurtenant to the shops located at Burnham; (5), that a
track should be set apart at Denver on which the Kansas .Pacific Company might clean its cars; (6), that each party should pay one-half of all
costs. On appeal this court Held,
(1) That the plaintiff was entitled to file this bill;
(2) That it was never intended to grant the, use of terminal facilities for
the Hock Island road, except as appurtenant to the use by it of
the Rio Grande road;
(3) That the exception of the shops at Burnham not only included the
buildings actually used for mechanical purposes, but also two
tracts purchased for the use of the shops, and intended to be devoted to such purposes;
(4) That there was no error in the decree of the court below as to the
employment of separate switching crews;
(5) That the cleaning of the cars could be done by the Rock Island
Company, but the Rio Grande Company was bound to furnish
track facilities for it;
(6) That it was not necessary to decide questions raised as to the discharge of employ~s engaged in the operation of that part of the
road jointly occupjed and used under the contract.

TilE court stated the case as follows:

This was a bill in equity brought by the Chicago, Rock

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Island and Pacific Railway Company, (hereafter designated
as the Rock Island Company,) against the Denver and Rio
Grande Railroad Company, (hereinafter designated as the
Denver Company,) to enforce an alleged right to certain terminal facilities at the city of Denver, and for certain incidental
purposes, hereinafter stated in the opinion. There was also a
cross-bill filed to enjoin the plaintiff from making use of such
facilities, and for other purposes, which was subsequently dismissed by stipulation of the parties.
The litigation arose out of a contract entered into on the
15th day of February, 1888, between the Denver Company
and the Chicago, Rock Island and Colorado Company, (herel
inafter designated as the Chicago Company,) for the joint use
and possession of the Denver road between Denver andPueblo,
the material portions of which are printed in the margin.1
1 Materialportions of the contract of 'ebruary15, 1888.
Articles of agreement inade and entered into this fifteenth (15th) day of
February, in the year eighteen hundied and eighty-eight, by and between
the Denver and Rio Grand6 Railroad Company, a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Colorado, hereinafter referred to as
the "Denver Company," and the Chicago, Rock Island and Colorado Railway Company, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the
same State, hereinafter referred to as the "Chicago Company," witnesseth:
First. The Denver Company owns and operates a railway with appurtenant property, a portion of the main line of which extends from Denver
through Colorado Springs to South Pueblo, all in the State of Colorado;
and the Chicago Company owns a railway which is being constructed from
the western boundary of the State of Kansas, at which point it will connect with the Chicago, Kansas and Nebraska Railway to the city of Colorado Springs, above mentioned.
Second. The interest of both parties and of the public will be promoted
by the establishment and operation of a through line of railway between
all the points 9 f the railway of the Denver Company between and including
Denver and South Pueblo, and all points on the line of railway which will
be operated by the Chicago Company, and on the system of railways of
which the Chicago Company will form a par.
Therefore, in consideration of the premises and of the several covenants,
promises and agreements hereinafter set out, the parties do covenant,
promise and agree to and with each other as follows :

Article I.
The Denver Company covenants, promises and agrees to and with the
Chicago Company:

IROCK ISLAND RAILWAY v RIO GRANDE RAILROAD. 599
Statement of the Case.

Pursuant to art. III, § 10, of this contract, the president of
the Chicago Company, on March 17, 1888, gave wtten
SECTIoN 1. It hereby lbts the Chicago Company into the full, equal,
joint and perpetual possession and use of all its tracks, buildings, stations,
sidings and switches on and along its line of railway between and including
Denver and South Pueblo, excluding its shops at Burnham, meaning and
intending hereby to include in the description aforesaid all and every portion of its railway, and appurtenant property, between and at the points
aforesaid, and all improvements and bettements thereof and additions
thereto, which may be jointly used by the parties, as hereinafter provided.
SEc. 2. It will maintain and keep in good repair the property described
in the preceding section, during the term of this contract, and will comply
with all regulations prescribed by law for the safety of the public.
SEC. 3. It will, if required by the Chicago Company, provide the necessary housing and care of the locomotives which said party may have'from
time to time at Denver and South Pueblo, upon reasonable terms, which
shall be agreed to by the general managers or other authorized officers of
the two companies. It will, upon like requisition,; furnish in the same
manner it provides its own locomotives on its tracks above described, all
water and coal Which the Chicago Company will need for the operation of
its trains over the railway of the Denver Company. The compensation
which shall be paid for the water supply shall be ascertained on the basis
of wheelage as hereinafter provided for expenses of maintenance and
repairs; and the compensation for coal so furnished shall be the actual
cost thereof in the shutes and platforms from which it is transferred to the
locomotives of the Chicago Company...
SEC. 4. It will pay all taxes and assessments which shall be levied or
assessed directly or indirectly upon or against the property described in
article 1, section 1, hereof, or upon either the gross or net earnings thereof
during the term of this indenture.
SEC. 5. It will at the commencement of said term, if so required by the
Chicago Company, provide, and, during the continuance thereof maintain,
at Denver and South Pueblo, for the exclusive use and control of said
Chicago Company, engine-houses conveniently located and having the necessary fixtures and sufficient capacity to properly and safely shelter all
locofmotive engines which said company may have occasion to use on the
railway of the Denver Company. .-

Article I.
The Chicago Company covenants, promises and agrees with the Denver
Company as follows:
SEcTioN 1. It hereby accepts the covenants, promises and agreements
tade and entered into by the Denver Company.
SEC. 2. It will, from and after the completion of its railway from the
boundary line of the State of Kansas to a connection with the railway of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

notice to the defendant company that the Chicago Company
elected, as provided by the contract of February 15, 1888, "to
the Denver Company at or near Colorado Springs, while this agreement
remains in force, pay monthly for the use of the premises described in article 1, section 1, hereof, the sum of the following amounts:
First. An amount equal to a one-twelfth part of two and one-half per
centum of the value of the property described in article 1, section 1, hereof,
and which value it is agreed is three million dollars; .
Second. An amount equal to a one-twelfth part of two and one-half per
centum per annum upon all suws which the Denver Company shall from
time to time pay for the construction or acquisition of additional tracks,
facilities and conveniences under section 1, article 3, hereof, except roundhouses at Denver and Pueblo.
Third. An amount equal to a one-twelfth part of five per centum upon
the cost of constructing, and in addition thereto the cost of repairing
round-houses which the Denver Company may erect and maintain at Denver and South Pueblo, for the exclusive use of the Chicago Company, as
provided in section 5, article 1, hereof.
Fourth. An amount equal to the proportion of- the cost or expenses
actually incurred and paid during the month for keeping the railway and
-appurtenant property described in the first section of article 1, hereof, in
rep-t, and supplying it (the Chicago Company) with water, as the number
of wheels per mile run by it, the Chicago Company, over said railway, or
any part thereof, bears to the whole number of wheels per mile run over
the same during the same period.
Fifth. An amount equal to the actual cost of the coal delivered during
the month to the engines of the Chicago Company under this contract.
Sixth. An amount equal to a proportional share of the expenses actually incurred in paying proper salaries to the general superintendent and
subordinate employ6s, including switchmen, telegraph operators, train
dispatchers, and others, necessarily employed in the performance of the
duties incident to the joint use and occupation of said railway, not including trainmen, which proportion shall be ascertained in the manner provided
in paragraph number four, above set out.
Seventh. An amount equal to one-half of all taxes and assessments lawfully levied and actually paid during the month upon the property described
in article 1, section 1, hereof; that is, that portion of the railway and appurtenant property used by the Chicago Company under this contract,
excluding shops at Burnham, and equipments, facilities and conveniences
not intended for joint use by the parties hereto. . .
Tenth. No compensation will accrue or be paid to the Denver 'Company
from or by the Chicago Company, for the use and occupation of said premIses before the railway of the Chicago Company shall be completed from
its initial point on the western boundary of the State of Kansas to a connection of the railway of the Denver Company within the time hereinafter
specified.

ROCK ISLA-NLD RAILWAY v. RIO GRANDE RAILROAD. 601
Statement of the Case.

build its railway from the western boundary of the State of
Kansas to Colorado Springs, and that it will have the same
Eleventh. The cost of operating and maintaining all tracks, structures
and facilities used jointly by the Denver Company and the Chicago Company shall be apportioned between said companies on a wheelage basis.
. . . Said Denver Company shall-receive from the Chicago Company
such a portion of the expenses incurred by the Denver Company in operating and maintaining the railway between Denver and Pueblo operated and
maintained by tho Denver Company, which thall be as the entire wheelage
of the Chicago Company is to the entire wheelage on said railway between
Denver and Pueblo.
SEC. 3. It is legally incorporated and has power to construct, maintain
and operate a railway which will extend from the western boundary of the
State of Kansas to Colorado Springs, in the State of Colorado, and to make
and perform on its part the several covenants, promises and agreements in
these articles contained ...
Article III.
SECTIOx 1. If the Chicago Company shall at any time during the continuance of the term of this indenture deem any additional side-tracks or
double tracks between said Denver and South Pueblo, or along any portion
of the line of railway between said points, essential or necessary, it shall
call upon the Denver Company to construct the same upon reasonable
notice.
. .
The Chicago Company shall pay monthly, as compensation for the use
of the same, one-twelfth of two and a half per centum per annum of the
cost of such construction, as is provided in article 2, section 2, and its
share of maintenance thereof based on wheelage, as provided in said section.
If additions are made by the )enver Company to its terminal facilities
at Denver or South Pueblo, by the building of additional tracks, the
Chicago Company shall have the right and privilege to occupy and enjoy
equal use of the same, if it shall so elect, and if it shall so elect then it
shall from the time of such election pay monthly to the Denver Company,
as compensation for such use, one-twelfth of two and one-half per centum
upon the cost thereof plus interest at two and one-half per centum per annum
upon such cost from the time of construction until the date of such election
in the manner provided in article 2, section 2, hereof, and its share of
maintenance thereof, after such election, based on wheelage, as is provided
in said article.
If the Chicago Company shall at any time during the continuance of the
term of this indenture desire any side, spur, or other tracks, other than
those above specified, connecting any track described in article 1, section
1, hereof, with its own tracks, or with the tracks of any other railway company, or to any industry, or shall desire any facilities or conveniences
which do not now exist, it shall give to said Denver Company notice of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

ready for operation on or before the thirty-first day of December, in the year one thousand eight hundred and eighty-nine."
such desire, and the said Denver Company may, within thirty days after
receiving said notice, proceed to construct such tracks or acquire such
facilities and conveniences; and the Chicago Company will, pay for the use
of the same, in monthly instalments, as provided in article 2, section 2,
hereof, a sum equal to a one-twelfth part of two and one-half per centum
per annum from the date of such construction or acquisition, upon the cost
of constructing or acquiring such tracks, facilities and conveniences, and
shall pay in addition thereto its share of the cost of the maintenance
thereof, based on wheelage, as herein provided. If the Denver Company
shall neglect or refuse to construct such tracks or acquire such facilities
and conveniences within a reasonable time, the Chicago Company, at its
own expense, in its own name, or it the name of some third person or corporation, as it may be advised, may construct or acquire the same, and it
shall be the sole owner, and have the right to use and remove the same, or
any part thereof, during the term of this indenture. .
SEc. 2. Schedules of rules and regulations for the movement of engines
and trains over the railway described in article 1, section 1, hereof, shall be
made from time to time by officers duly authorized by the parties. Such
schedules shall, as nearly as may be practicable, accord equality of right,
privilege and advantage to trains of the same class operated by both parties,
and to trains of a superior class operated by either party, and a preference
over trains of an inferior class operated by the other. All schedules of
rules and regulations shall be reasonable and, just to both parties, and shall
secure to neither any unfair preference or discrimination against the'other.
They shall be executed and all trains shall be moved under the immediate
direction of the superintendent, or other officer duly authorized, of the
Denver Company . ..
Sac. 3. Any employ6 of one company engaged in the operation of any
part of the railway jointly occupied and used under this contract shall be
removed from that portion of said line upon the request of the other.
Sac. 4. The Chicago Company will do no business as a cai;rier of persons
or property between intermediate stations between Denver and Colorado
Springs, or between intermediate stations between Colorado Springs and
Pueblo, or between any such intermediate station and Denver, Colorado
Springs, or Pueblo; but it shall have the right to transport persons and
property between stations on its railway and connecting lines and all points
between and including Denver and South Pueblo: provided, however, that
if the Chicago Company shall at any time acquire by purchase, construction or otherwise a railway extending not less than fifty (50) miles from
Pueblo, it shall have the right to transfer persons and property between
any'point on such line and Denver. .
The Chicago Company will not permit any express company to do business on its traim to or from stations on the line of the Denver Company

ROCK ISLAND RAILWAY v. RIO GRANDE RAILROAD. 603
Statement of the Case.

Soon after this, the Chicago Company completed its connection with the Denver Company's line at Colorado Springs,
and thereafter for some time brought all its trains by the
way of Colorado Springs, to Denver and Pueblo over the
defendant's line. The distance from Denver to Pueblo is
about 120 miles, Colorado Springs being an intermediate
station, nearly midway between the termini.
between South Pueblo and Colorado Springs, or between stations between
Colorado Springs and Denver, or from Denver to South Pueblo, or fr6m
South Pueblo to Denver. It may permit such a company or companies to
carry property on its trains from Denver to Colorado Springs, from Pueblo
to Colorado Springs, and to and from stations on its own railway and connecting lines to and from all points between and including Denver and
South Pueblo. ...
In the division between the parties hereto of joint rates on thr6ugh
traffic, including all trausported by each party which shall pass through
Pueblo or Denver to or from the railway of the Chicago Company at
Colorado Springs, no difference between the hauls made by the parties
respectively on the railway of the Denver Company between Denver and
Pueblo shall be considered. For exam~le, if the Denver Company receives
through traffic from points beyond Denver or South Pueblo and hauls the
same to Colorado Springs, and there delivers it to the Cbicago Company
it will receive no greater division of the through rate than it will receive
for like traffic delivered at Denver and South Pueblo; and if the Chicago
Company hauls through traffic destined to points beyond Denver or South
Pueblo to said points, instead of delivering it to the Denver Company at
Colorado Springs, it will receive no larger division of the throughi rate
because of such additional haul .
..
SEC. 9. This contract shall attach to and run with the railways of the
respective parties during the corporate existence of each, and of all extensions of such existence, by renewal or otherwise; -and shall be binding
upon the lessees, assigns, grantees and successors of each during the continuance of their several corporate existences: provided, however, that the
Chicago Company can assign its interests in this contract only by a sale,
lease, or consolidation of its own property. .
SEC. 10. The Chicago Company shall, on or before the first day of April,
in the year one thousand eight hundred and eighty-eight, notify the Denver
Company whether or not it elects to build its line aforesaid from said point
on the western boundary line of the State of Kansas to said Colorado
Springs. If it shall elect to build said line it agrees to complete the same
and to occupy the line of the Denver Company, and to be bound by the
terms of this contract, on or before the 31st day of December, in the year
1889. If it shall elect not to build said line this contract shall, on the said
1st day of April, in the year 188 , become void and of no effect ....

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

In April, 1889, the Rock Island Company, claiming to be
the successor in interest of the Chicago Company under the
contract, assumed the operation of that company's line, and
about the same time entered into a contract with the Union
Pacific Company, by the terms of which the Rock Island
Company acquired the right to connect its railway with that
,of the Union Pacific at Limon, about ninety miles east of
Denver, and to run its trains over the track of the Union
Pacific from that point to Denver, which was sixty-four miles
shorter than that by Colorado.Springs, and over a road the
maximum grade of which was much less than the other.
From that time to the present the plaintiff has transacted
most of its business to and from Denver over the Union Pacific line, bringing the same over no portion of the Denver
Company's line; but at the same time has sought to utilize
the defendant's terminal facilities at Denver for the handling
of its business. It has still continued, however, to send its'
Pueblo traffic by way of Colorado Springs, and over the line
of the defendant's road.
Immediately after its Denver business began to be thus
diverted, and on -May 10, 1889, the general manager of the
Denver Company telegraphed Mr. Cable, the president of the
plaintiff company, as follows: "I have just seen Mr. Allen,
general superintendent, and have notified him that although
we are not required by our contract to handle or care for
your trains and equipment brought to Denver over the Union
Pacific line, we do so temporarily, and with the understanding
that the compensation for such -service, as also for the use of
our tracks for such trains, will be made at an early date." To
this Mr. Cable replied the next day, as folldws: "1Your telegram received. Of course any service performed for us, not
covered by contract, will be paid for by our company. When
I come out in June I will spend time enough with you to take
up matters between us that may require atieition. I have no
doubt that everything can be satisfactorily arranged."
No payment for the use of such terminal facilities appears,
however, to have been made, the plaintiff asserting its right to
use these torilinals, for its business brought over the Union

ROCK ISLAND RAILWAY v. RIO GRANDE RAILROAD. 605
Statement of the Case.

Pacific tracks, under the contract made with the Chicago
Company. The parties being unable to agree upon a proper
construction of the contract, the defendant gave notice that
it would, on August 1, 1890, exclude from' its Denver terminals all business brought over the Union Pacific tracks. Thereupon the Rock Island Company filed this bill, and applied for
a restraining order, which was granted. By amendments and
supplemental bill there were brought into the controversy
other matters of difference which hid arisen between the two
companies. Upon the hearing in the Circuit Court a decree 1
1 ", This cause coming on now to be finally heard, upon the complainant's
bill of complaint and amendments thereto, and its supplemental bill of complaint, and upon the amended answer of the defendant to the complainant's
bill of complaint and amendments thereto, and the answer of said defendant
to the complainant's supplemental bill of complaint, and upon the issues
joined thereon between the parties, and upon the evidence adduced in said
cause, and the court now having heard the same and the arguments of
counsel, the court doth now find, order, adjudge and decree as follows:
" 1. That under the provisions of the contract bearing date February 15,
1888, made and entered into between the Denver and Rio Grande Railroad
Company, the defendant above named, and in said contract described as
' The Denver Company,' of the one part, and the Chicago, Rock Island and
Colorado Railway Company, in said contract described as IThe Chicago
Company,' of the other part, being the contract set forth in the complainant's bill of complaint, the complainant, The Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, as the successor in interest of the said The Chicago,
Rock Island and Colorado Railway Company, has the right to operate its
trains over the line of the defendant company,-described in said contract,
with all the rights and subject to all the limitations in said contract granted
and reserved as to the said The Chicago, Rock Island and Colorado Railway
Company.
"2. That the said complainant is not, under said contract, entitled, nor
has it any right to bring its engines, cars or trains over the tracks of the
Union Pacific Railway Company, into or upon the Denver terminals of the
defendant company; and that said complainant has no right under said
contract, in the tracks, switches, side-tracks or terminals of the said defendant, except for sVah business as it brings upon said tracks by the way
of the city of Colorado -Springs; that the rights granteZl under said contract by the defendant to the said The Chicago, Rock Island an# Coloradd
Railway Company, run with and -are appurtenant solely t(2 the line of railway connecting with th defendant's line of railway at said city of Colorado
Springs; and that the complainant-is, under said contrast intitled to carry
business to and from any portion cf the defnd.nU's sW line of railway,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

was made settling the rights of the two companies to this'
contract (45 Fed. Rep. 304), from which both parties- appealed
to this court.
described in said contract, by the way of said city of Colorado Springs and
not otherwise.
"3. That the complainant under and by virtue of said contract, is entitled to and has the right, at its option, to employ its separate switching
crews, and operate ift own switching engines in the railroad yards of the
defendant company, under the sole and absolute supervision, direction and
control, however, of the yard master, or other properly constituted officer
or agent of the defendant, and subject to the orders and instructions of
said yard master, or other officer or agent so appointed by the said defendant, which orders and instructions shall be given and executed in good faith
and without discrimination, and in accordance with the provisions of said
contract.
"That the complainant is also entitled and has the right at its option, to
handle traffic with its separate employds, and to perform any other service
which can be performed for it exclusively, including the handling of traffic
received from or delivered to other railroads by the complainant, to the
same extent and as fully in all respects as the defendant may perform like
services for itself, and have like use of the joint property for that purpose.
"4: That the words 'Shops at Burnham' used in section one (1) of
Article (1) of said contract of February 15, 1888, include all lands used or
procured for shop purposes and appurtenant to the shops located at Burnham, on the west side of defendant's main line of railway, bounded on the
north by the north line of the parcel of land known as the 'IBurlingame
tract,' and on the south by the north line of the parcel of land known as the
' Bailey tract' (being the north line of Vasquez street), containing sixty
acres, more or less, together with all buildings, tracks and other improvements or appurtenances thereon situated; and that the complainant has no
interest in or right to the use of any portion of said preMises hereinabove
described.
"The complainant shall not be excluded from the use of the wye track
at Burnham for the turning of its engines, cars and trains, so long as it
shall continue to pay for the use thereof interest at..the rate of two and
one-half per cent (21 %) per annum ou the cost of its construction, unless
and pntil the defendant shall provide at Denver another wye track for the
turning of such engines, cars and trains.
"5. The parties shall set apart a track a' Denver on which the complainant shall have the right to clean its cars, and if no existing track can be conveniently devoted to that purpose, the defendant shall construct and equip a
track therefor, at the joint expense of the parties, plaintiff and defendant.
" 6. It is further by the court ordered and adjudged, that each of the
parties, plaintii and defendant, shall pay the one-half of all costs taxed up
or to be taxed in this cause."

ROCK ISLAND RAILWAY v. RIO GIANDE RAILROAD. 607
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. Thomas F. tithrow, .Mr. Thomas S. Tright and Ar.
. Pdttison for appellant.

A.

.Ar. Edward 0. IMol-ott and _Mr. Joel F. ITaile for appellee.
AI.

JUSTICE

B]owN delivered the opinion of the court.

(1) A preliminary question is made with regard to the
rights of the Rock Island Company as the successor of the
Chicago Company under the contract of February 15, 1888.
By art. III, § 9, of this contract it was provided that it should
"attach to and run with the railways of the respective parties
during the borporate existence of each, and of all extensions
of such existence, by renewal or otherwise, and shall be binding upon the lessees, assigns, grantees and successors of each,
during the continuance of their several corporate existences;
provided, however, that the Chicago Company can assign its
interests in this contract only by sale, lease of consolidation of
its own property." The original companies, of which the
Rock Island Company claims to be the successor, appear to
have been the St. Joseph and Iowa Railroad Company, a
Missouri corporation, and the Chicago, Kansas and Nebraska
Railway Company, a Kansas corporation. On 'May 15, 1886,
the latter company leased its property and franchises to the
former, which entered into possession under such lease, which
is still in force. On June 13, 1888, after this contract was
made, the Chicago, Kansas and iNebraska Company and the
Chicago, Rock Island and Colorado Company were consolidated under the name of the Chicago, Kansas and Nebraika
Railway Company, which consolidated corporation is admitted
by the answer to have succeeded to and become vested with
all the property and property rights, and all the corporate
rights, powers, franchises and privileges of the -said two constituent companies, including the contract between the Chicago
Company and the defendant, and thereby entered into possession and enjoyment of the same.
It is unnecessary to set forth at length the numerous steps
by way of assignments, leases and consolidations by which

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the Rock Island Company became the assignee of the Chicago
Company under this contract. It is sufficient, for the purposes
of this case, that it assumed to take the place -of the Chicago
Company; that it entered into open possession of the property
of that company, and upon the performance of this contract,
on the first of January, 1889; that it was recognized by the
Denver Company as taking the place of the Chicago Company'; that this was done with the consent of' that company,
and that no question was ever made by the Denver Company
of its rights under this contract until its answer was filed in
this case: and in its cross-bill the Denver Company prayed
for the specific performance of the contract against it. From
the time of the consolidation in June, 1888, business was transacted with the defendant in the name of the Chicago, Kansas
and Nebraska Company, the consolidated company; and the
defendant in issuing its time-cards, at the time connection was
made and trains began to run, upon the information furnished
it by the officers of that road, designated its trains as the
"Chicago, Kansas and Nebraska Express," etc. In :May,
1889, upon the request of plaintiff's officers, the caption was
changed to the "Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific." On May
16, a notice was issued stating that plaintiff had assumed the
operation of the Chicago, Kansas and Nebraska Railway.
Upon this coming to the hands of the law department of the
defendant in July, some correspondence was had, by which
the defendant was apprised that the Rock Island Company
was operating the line of the other under a lease. Upon this
information, the managing officers of the defendant recognized
the plaintiff as the successor in interest under the contract,
and made no question of its rights for more than a year thereafter. Had the Denver Company refused to recognize the
plaintiff as the legal successor of the Chicago Company,
and refused to acknowledge its contract with the Chicago
Company as importing any obligation or liability on its part
towards the plaintiff, a serious question might have arisen as
to the rights of the latter, under this alleged assignment, as
the successor of the Chicago Company. But, under the circumstances of this case, a court of equity will treat the as-

ROOK ISLAND RAILWAY v. RIO GR.ANDE RAILROAD. 609
Opinion of the Court.

signee in fact as the legal assignee, possessed of the rights and
charged with the obligations of the original party to the contract. Wiggins .Ferry Co. v. Ohio & -fississippi Railroad,
142 U. S. 396. In short, we find no difficulty in holding that
the plaintiff was entitled to file this bill.
(2) The most important question in this case relates to the
proper construction of art. 1, § 1, wherein the Denver Company "lets the Chicago Company into the full, equal, joint
and perpetual possession and use of all its tracks, buildings,
stations, sidings and switches, on and along its line of railway,
between and including Denver and South Pueblo, excluding
its shops at Burnham, meaning and intending hereby to include in the description aforesaid all and every portion: of its
railway and appurtenant property between and at the points
aforesaid, and all improvements and betterments thereof, and
additions thereto, which may be jointly used by the parties,
as hereinafter provided."' The question is whether this general language is controlled or limited by the facts existing at
the time the contract was executed, or by the subsequent provisions of the contract itself. If this be -in fact a lease, without qualification, of the entire road and appurtenant property
between Denver and South Pueblo, then the Rock Island
Company has a right to make use of as much or as little as
it pleases, and to introduce its trains upon the tracks of the
Denver Company wherever it may choose to do so. It may
not only make use of the terminal facilities at Denver for its
traffic over the Union Pacific, but it may contract for trackage
over any road running to Denver, Pueblo, or the intermediate
stations, and demand the use of the defendant's terminals for
its entire'business over such roads.
There can be no doubt whatever of the general proposition
that, in the interpretation of any particular clause of a contract, the court is not only at liberty, but required, to examine
the entire contract, and may also consider the relations of the
parties, their connection with the subject matter of the contract, and the circumstances under which it was signed.
Prior to the execution of this contract, the Chicago Company
had determined to construct a road into the State of Colorado
VoL. cxLi-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

from its eastern boundary. Its officers had not, however,
settled upon the particular route - whether they should build
an independent road from the Kansas State line to Denver,
with a branch to Pueblo, or build a connection with the defendant's road at Colorado Springs, thence reaching Denver
and Pueblo over defendant's line. This connection had not
been made at the time the contract was entered into, though
there is a preliminary recital that "the Chicago Company
owns a railway which is being constructed frotm the western
boundary of the State of Kansas, at which point it will connect with the Chicago, Kansas and iNebraska Railway, to the
city of Colorado Springs," indicating very clearly that this
was the road within the contemplation of the parties. Indeed,
there was an express provision in the body of the contract
(art. III, § 10) that the Chicago Company should, on or before
the first day of April, 1888, notify the Denver Company
whether or not it elected to build its line to Colorado Springs,
and that if it should elect to build such line it was to complete
the same and to occupy the line of the Denver Company, and
to be bound by the terms of the contract, on or before the
thirty-first day of December, 1889. "If it shall elect not to
build said line, this contract shall on the said first day of April,
in the year 1888,'become void and of no effect ; "-in other
words, the very life of the contract was made to depend upon
the fact whether this connection was made, and until that
time it was not to go into operation. It is quite evident from
this that if, instead of completing its road to Colorado Springs,
the Chicago Company had made the connection with the
Union PTicific which it subsequently did make, the Denver
Company would not have been under the slightest obligation
to afford the terminal facilities which the plaintiff now claims.
The Defiver Company as well as the Chicago Company undoubtedly had an object in view in making the contract,
which was largely, at least, to obtain a revenue from the use
of its tracks, between Denver and Pueblo, of which the terminal facilities at these points were but an incident.
Indeed, the contract from beginning to end is full of provisions which indicate that the minds of the parties met only

ROCK ISLAND RAILWAY v. RIO GRANDE RAILROAD. 611
Opinion of the Court.

upon an understanding that the Chicago Company should
make its connection with the Denver road at Colorado Springs,
and should make a constant use of its tracks from that point
to Denver and Pueblo, and, inferentially at least, that the
Denver Company would not have consented to it upon any
other theory. The preamble contains a recital that "the interest of both parties and of the public will be promoted by
the establishment and operation of a through line of railway
between all the points on the line of the railway of the Denver Company, between and including Denver and South
Pueblo, and all points on the line of railway which will be
operated by the Chicago Company, and on the system of railways of which the Chicago Company will form a part."' By
art. IT, § 3, the Chicago Company covenanted that it had
power to construct a line from the western boundary of Kansas to Colorado Springs. By art. I, § 3, the Denver Company
is to furnish "all water and coal which the Chicago Company
will need for the operation of its trains over the railway of the
D en Coimnany. It agrees, if so required, to provide and
maintain engine-houses to properly and safely shelterall locomotive engines which said Chicago Company may have occasion to use on the railway of the De ver Comyany." (Art. I,
§ 5.) The rent payabte by the Chicago Company began to
run "from and after the completion of its railway from the
boundary -line of the State of Kansas to a connection with th4
railway of the Denver Company at .or near Colorado Springs."
(Art. II, § 2.) And there was a further express provision that
"no compensation will accrue or be paid to the Denver Company from or by the Chicago Company for the use and occupation of said premises, before the railway of the Chicago
Company shall be completed from its initial point on' the
western boundary of the State of Kansas to a connection wito
the railway of the Denver Company within the time hereinafter specified"Z' (Art. II, § 2, sub. 10.) Among the payments to be made was a proportionate amount of the cost or
expenses for keeping the railway and appurtenant property in
repair, and supplying it (the Chicago Company) with water,
"as the number of wheels per mile run by it, the Chicago

OCTOBER TERM4, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Company, over said railway, or any part thereof, bears to the
whole number of -wheels per mile run over the same during
the same period," (Art. II, § 2, sub. 4,)- a provision wholly
inapplicable to the separate use of terminal facilities; since it
needs no argument to show that the amount of compensation
for the use of such facilities cannot be practically determined
upon a wheelage basis.
By art. III, § 4, the Chicago Company agrees to do no business as a carrier of persons or property between Denver and
Colorado Springs, or between intermediate stations between
Colorado Springs and Pueblo, or between any such intermediate stations and Denver, Colorado Springs or Pueblo; but it
was to have the right "to transport persons and property between stations on its railway and connecting lines, and all
points between and including Denver and South Pueblo: Provided, however, that if the Chicago Company shall at any
time acquire by purchase, construction or otherwise, a railway
extending not less than fifty miles from Pueblo, it sh ll have
the right to transport persons and property, between any point
on such line and Denver." There is certainly an inference
from this proviso that it was not contemplated that the Chicago Company should acquire similar rights upon railways
from other points than Pueblo. In addition to this, the situation and plan of the Denver station grounds show that while
they possess every facility for the admission of trains from the
southward, their connection with the Union Pacific to the
northward is by two tracks, one of which is wholly used for
the transfer of freight cars to other systems of railways, the
other only making direct connection with the station of the
Union Pacific - an obviously inadequate provision for a large
and continuous traffic. Taking all the-facts of this contract
together, we regard it as quite clear that it was never intended
to grant the use of terminal facilities except as. appurtenant to
the use of the road itself. Indeed. where a road is leased with
its terminal facilities the implication is strong that it was the
lease of the road which induced the lease of the terminals, and
the contract should not be construed as importing a separate
lease of such terminals without clear language to that effect.

ROCK ISLAND RAILWAY v. RIO GRANDE RAILROAD. 613
Opinion of the Court.

If plaintiff's contention be correct, we see no reason why it
may not construct or lease another track direct from Limon to
Pueblo, and demand the use of the defendant's terminals at
that point, and practically, at least, abandon its line to Colorado Springs.
Upon the whole, we think the defendant's construction of
this contract is the correct one, and the decree of the court
below in that particular should be affirmed.
(3) A question of some importance arises with regard to
the proper construction of the exception, in the general granting clause, of the "shops at Burnham," the plaintiff claiming
generally that the restriction applies only to the shop buildings and the land upon which they stand, and the defendant
insisting that it includes all that portion of its property at
Burnham west of the main line, consisting of about sixty
acres purchased and mostly used for the construction, repairing and equipment of its rolling stock. The specific parcels
of such property in dispute are, (a about twenty acres south
of the shop grounds proper, known as the Bailey tract, lying
mostly to the west of the main line, which runs through the
tract; (b) about six acres to the northward of the shops, and
known as the Burlingame tract; (c) certain coach tracks
within the yard occupied by the machine shops, and used by
both parties for cleaning their passenger coaches; (d) a certain track known as the "wye.' on the Bailey tract, and used
for reversing the direction of the trains.
In ascertaining the scope of this exception little aid can be
derived from the illustrations employed by counsel upon both
sides, since the meaning of the reservation must be determined
in every case by the particular facts of such case. For instance, if the vendor of a city lot should, in a deed of such lot,
reserve to.himself a building standing thereon, it would be
manifest that he reserved only the right to remove such building, since a different construction would be destructive of the
grant. On the other hand, if a testator devised to his sons a
large farm, reserving to his widow the right to occupy the
farm-house during her life, it might, and probably would, be
held to include the out-buildings and gardens, or messuage.

OCTOBER TERf, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

So, while a shop in which an individual carried on a trade
might be limited to the particular building, and even to the
particular room in which his work was done,, we should not
apply this narrow construction to the shops in which a large
railroad corporation carries on its manufacturing and repairing. The intent of the parties must be gathered from the
character of the conveyance, the nature and situation of the
property conveyed and of the property excepted, and the purpose of such exception.
The grant in this case was of the "possession and use of all
its tracks, buildings, stations, sidings and switches on and
along its line of railway between and including Denver and
South Pueblo, . . . intending hereby to include in the
description aforesaid all and every portion of its railway and
appurtenant property between and at the points aforesaid,"
etc. No specific mention is here made of real estate, and
while, as we have had recent occasion to hold, New Orleans
Pacifc Railway v. Parker, ante, 42, land is not ordinarily
appurtenant to other land, much less to personal property,
there can be no doubt that, under this grant, all land occupied
by the stations, tracks, water tanks, etc., and all other land
habitually used in the daily operation of the road, would pass
as appurtenant to the railway. The very fact that the grant
is so liberal in its terms is an indication that the exception
also should not be narrowly construed. It is evident that an
interpretation which would limit it to the buildings actually
used for mechanical purpgses would fail to express the intention of the parties with regard to this exception, since repairs
are frequently made to cars while standing in the yards, and
track room must be provided for cars while they are waiting
their turn in the shops, as well as -round-houses for the accommodation of locomotives. As the Denver Company owned
and operated some fifteen hundred miles of railway, and had
its principal shops for making and repairing its rolling stock,
and for storing its cars, supplies and materials for its whole
line of road, at Burnham, it is manifest that extensive buildings, grounds, tracks and other appliances would be required
for such purposes. The amount originally purchase seems

ROCK ISLA3ND RAILWAY v. RIO GRANDE RAILROAD. 615
Opinion of the Court.

to have been about forty acres; but finding this to be insufficient, from time to time other purchases were made, including
the two tracts in question, and at the date of the contract the
ground purchased for the use of the shops and intended to, be
devoted to such purposes embraced about sixty acres. There
was a map of these lands published in 1884, entitled "A New
Map of the Denvef and Rio Grande Ralivay shops at Burnham," which it is probable, at least, was consulted by the parties before this contract was, made. While there is some conflict of testimony as to what occurred at that time, it seems
somewhat improbable that, in making a contract of this magnitude, some reference should not have been made to this
map, a glance at which would have apprised plaintiff of what
the defendant claimed to be embraced under the designation
of the Bu.nham shops. For these reasons, we think that the
plaintiff's theory that the exception applies only to the shop
buildings is untenable.
With regard to the Bailey and Burlingame tracts, so called,.
it is at least doubtful whether they would have passed without
the exception, as an appurtenance to the tracks, buildings,
stations, sidings and switches, and other property of the road,
unless, at least, they were occupied by tracks used in the
operation of the road. Indeed,'they are appurtenant rather
to the shops than to the railway.' It is clear they ought not
to be detached from the shop grounds proper, with -which they
are connected, for which they were purchased, and of which
they form a part. If these grounds were put to a separate use,
distinct from the other shop grounds -a
use connected with
the customary operation of the road-a different question
might arise.
There was no error in the decree providing that the plaintiff should not be excluded from the "wye " track at Burnham,
for the turning of -its engines, cars and trains, so long as it
should continue to pay, for the use thereof,*interest upon the
cost of its construction, according to the arrangement made
at the meeting of February 13, 1890, until the defendant
should provide at Denver another similar track for the same
purpose.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

If there be any real dispute as to which is the "main line"
contemplated in the 4th paragraph of the decree of the Circuit
Court, it should be settled by an application to that court.
(4) Has the plaintiff a right, under the contract, to put into
the Denver terminals its own switch engines, switching crews,
and other employ~s devoted to its exclusive service? Soon
after the parties entered upon the performance of this contract, a controversy arose between them respectingthe employment of switching crews in the several yards of the defendant
company. The plaintiff, believing that it could perform such
service with its own engines and employAs more economically
than it was being done by the.defendant, notified the defend.
ant that it would, without unnecessary delay, place therein its
own engines, agents and employ~s, who would perform such
labor. Defendant promptly. replied that it would not perniit
'the employment of such agents, etc., and that, if any attempt
were made by plaintiff to employ them, they would be ejected
by force; assigning as a reason for such action that such operation of the yards would produce confusion and be attended
by danger; and that the proximity of employ~s engaged
by another company to those in its own service would create
discontent and trouble between it and its own employ~s.
Defendant subsequently consented to the employment by the
plaintiff of certain classes of laborers in its yards at South
Pueblo, but has pegsisted in its threat to exclude any one who
should be introduced into the yard at Denver. Defendant
justified its action upon the ground that such exclusive employment and service were not provided for by the contract,
were in violation of its terms, and could not be permitted by
reason of the danger to life and property, etc.
The contract is silent upon this point. , The Denver Company does, however, agree (art. I, § 1) to let the Chicago
Company into the full, equal,-joint and perpetual 'possession
and use of its property, and is bound to do so wherever a joint
operation of such property is practicable. There'is also a provision (art. II, § 2, sub. 6) for the payment by the Chicago Company, as part of the consideration, of "an amount equal to a
proportionate share of the expenses actually incurred in paying

ROOK ISLAND RAILWAY v. RIO GRANDE RAILROAD. 017
Opinion of the Court.

proper salaries to the general superintendent and subordinate
employs, including switchmen, telegraph operators, 'train
dispatchers and others necessarily employed in the perfbrmance of the duties incident to the joint use and occupation of
said railway, not including train men, which proportion shall
be ascertained in the manner . . . above set out." This
provision seems to contemplate that the plaintiff shall employ
its own operatives upon its own trains, the defendant retaining
the general management of the road, and the direction of such
employ6s as are necessary to its operation, a~nd to the regular
and ordinary movements of the trains of both companies, in
order to prevent confusion and accidents.
This controversy with regard to the employment of switching crews was made the subject of a correspondence between
the managers of the two companies early in 1889. On February 16, Mr. Smith, the manager of the defendant company,
addressed the president of the plaintiff a letter in which he
stated the defendant's construction of certain provisions of the
contract, upon which he had taken the advice of its counsel,
who, he says, in answer to a query of his, gave it as. his opinion
that the C. K. & N. Co. had the right, if it desired to do so,
to do work in the Colorado Springs yards with its switch
engines, and to do all the necessary switching for that company with its own engines; but that this could only be done
under the direction and instructions of the superintendent or
other designated officers of the defendant. "The same rule,"
said he, "applies to this case, as stated in query one, that all
movement of engines, trains and cars, must be under the sole
direction of the superintendent or designated officer of the"
defendant. "There can be no divided authority with regard
to the movement of engines, trains and cars. In this respect
the yards at Pueblo, Colorado Springs and Denver are subject
to the same principle."
In reply to this letter, under date of February 22, Mr. Cable,
plaintiff's president, said that they acted on the theory "that
the movement of trains on your tracks must be under the
direction of your operating officers; that operations in the
yards must conform to reasonable yard rules, and that in all

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

other respects we have exclusive control of our engines and
cars." On the 26th, Mr. Smith said in reply: "This company
is at all times ready and willing to unite with you in making and modifying rules and regulations for the movement of
engines and trains in such a way as to accord equality of right,
privilege and advantage as far as practicable. But in the
execution of'these rules and regulations there can be no divided authority." This was the construction put upon this
contract by the parties shortly after it went into operation,
and we think it accords with its spirit, and is not inconsistent
with its letter. It is obviously necessary to the harmonious
working of the two systems that the general control and
management of the yard should remain with the defendant;
but it -- not easy to see why that control may not be as well
exercised over two switching crews belonging to two different
companies as over two crews belonging to the same company.
The evidence shows that the defendant has nine crews working
by day and six by night. There was a good deal of conflicting testimon' upon the question whether such joint operation
was practicable, and a large number of witnesses were sworn
on both sides. Upon the whole, we have come to the conclusion that, while at times it may not be convenient, it is by no
means impossible, and the correspondence between the parties
indipates that it was not considered objectionable. The gist
of the testimony upon this point seems to be that if the employ~s of the two companies desire to work harmoniously
together there is little difficulty in doing so; but if either
party chooses to be technical in the assertion of its rights,
there is abundant opportunity for fricti6n. It occurs to us
that it would cause fully as much inconvenience to transfer the
control of trains from the employs of one company to those
of another, as such trains entered or left the terminal yard, as
it would to permit the switching of such trains' within the
yard by the hands that brought them in or were to take them
out. It appears that yards are jointly operated in this manner in such large railway centres as Kansas City, Toledo, and
Chicago without serious difficulty. We ihink the same rule
should' also be applied to those employed in handling the

ROCK ISLAND RAILWAY v. RIO GRANDE RAILROAD. 619
Opinion of the Court.

freight. With reference to this, the decree of the court below
provided that the plaintiff had a right, at its option, to employ
its separate switching crews, and operate its own switching
engines in the yards of the defendant company, under the
sole and absolute supervision, direction and control, however,
of the yard master or other properly constituted officer or
agent of the defendant, and.subject to the orders and instructions of such yard master, etc., and in this there was no error.
(5) Defeqdant also assigns .as error that portion of the decree
adjudging that defendaat should set apart a track at Denver
on which the plaintiff should have the right to clean its cars,
"and if. no existing track can be conveniently devoted to that
purpose, the defendant shall construct and equip a track therefor, at the joint expense of the parties, plaintiff and defendant." While the contract makes no express mention of car
cleaning facilities, it is an obvious and necessary incident to
the operation of railway trains; somehow and by somebody
it must be done, and it is difficult to see, why, if the plaintiff
is to be admitted to the joint possession and use of the entire
railway and its appurtenant property, it can be excluded from
such car cleaning facilities as the defendant possesses. If
defendant desires to exclude plaintiff from such facilities as itpossesses at the Burnham shops, it should provide them at
some other convenient point. Unless a different arrangement
can be made, it is proper that the actual work of cleaning cars
should be done by the plaintiff with utensils provided by it;
but the track facilities must be furnished by the defendant.
If, however, the plaintiff is not satisfied with the facilities
offered for, this purpose, and desires further facilities and conveniences which do not now exist, itshould proceed under art.
III, § 1, of the contract, by giving notice to the defendant of
its desire, and if tho defendant, within thirty days after receiving such notice, neglects or refuses to construct such facilities,
the plaintiff may construct the same and have the right to use
and remove them during the term of the contract. The 5th
paragraph of the decree should be modified to this.extent.
(6) Plaintiff also assigns as error the omission of the court
to provide in' its decree that the defendant should discharge

OCTOBER TER-,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

any of its employds engaged in the operation of any part of
the road jointly occupied and used under the contract, upon
the demand of the plaintiff that such employ6 be removed
from that portion of the line. In this particular the contract
provides (art. III, § 3) that "any employ6 of one company engaged in the operation of any part of the railhvay jointly occupied and used under this contract, shall be removed from that
portion of said line upon the request of the other." The allegation of the bill in that parbicular is, that for the purpose of
facilitating the transportation of passengers from all points on
one road to all points upon the other road, the plaintiff placed
in the hands of station agents at the stations between Denver
and Pueblo tickets to be sold to passengers who should desire
such transportation, and that defendant uniformly and persistently thwarted, when it had power to do so, all attempts
to secure the movement of traffic over such through line, and
instructed such agents, who were paid for their services jointly
by plaintiff and defendant, to refuse to sell such tickets, and
to falsely state to passengers that plaintiff's trains would not
stop at such stations; and that plaintiff demanded that a
number of such agents, who made such statements, should be
removed; but the contract in that particular was disregarded
by the defendant. In its answer, the defendant admitted that
plaintiff demanded that certain of its agents be removed, but
alleged that such demand was made during the pendency of
these proceedings, within a few days before the filing of the
supplemental bill, and that such agents had not as yet been
removed by reason of the manifest oversight of the plaintiff
in ignoring its time tables and the instructions therein contained, and because it believed that upon a further consideration of the facts plaintiff would withdraw the request. This
point was waived in the court lelow upon a statement of facts
made as to the particular agents in the supplemental bill
named, and while there seems to be a radical difference between the parties as to a: proper interpretation of this clause
of the contract, the question as here presented is only a moot
one, and we do not feel called upton to settle it.
This disposes of all the errors assigned by counsel, and with

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

the modification of the 5th paragraph, above suggested, the
decree of the court below will be
Affirmed, and the costs in this court divided.
MR. JusTIcE BREwER dissented, being of the opinion that the
construction placed upon this contract by Mr. Justice Miller
on the preliminary hearing in the Circuit Court was correct.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
ORIGINAL.

No. 5. Original. Argued December 9, 1691. -Decided February 29, 1892.
The Supreme Court of the United States has original jurisdiction of a suit
in equity brought by the United States against a State to determine the
boundary between that State and a Territory of the United States, and
that qluestion is susceptible of judicial determination.
Although it is inherent in the nature of sovereignty not to be amenable to
the suit of an individual without its consent, that principle has no application to a suit by one government against another government.
The exercise by this court of original jurisdiction in a suit brought by one
State against another to determine the boundary line between them, or
in a suit brought by the United States against a State to determine the
boundary between a Territory of the United States and that State, so
far from infringing, in either case, upon* the sovereignty, is with the
consent of the State sued.
A suit in equity being appropriate for determining the boundary between
two States, the fact that the present suit is in equity, and not at law,
is no valid objection to it.

The bill was filed by the Attorney General by
direction of Congress, contained in section 25 of the act of
May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 81, 92, c. 182, "to provide a temporary
government for the Territory of Oklahoma, to enlarge the
jurisdiction of the United States Court in the Indian Territory,
and for other purposes." That section was as follows:
"See. 25. That inasmuch as there is a contrpversy between
the United States and the State of Texas as t6 the ownership
IN EQUITY.

