OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

Suppose in the Congress that passed this act some member
had offered a bill which in terms declared that, if any Roman
Catholic church in this country should contract with Cardinal
Manning to come to this country and enter into its service as
pastor and priest; or any Episcopal church should enter into
a like contract with Canon Farrar; or any Baptist church
should make similar arrangements with Rev. Mr. Spurgeon;
or any Jewish synagogue with some eminent Rabbi, such contract should be adjudged unlawful and void, and the church
making it be subject to prosecution and punishment, can it be
believed that it would have received a minute of approving
thought or a single vote? Yet it is contended that such was
in effect the meaning of this statute. The construction invoked cannot be accepted as correct. It is a case where there
was presented a definite evil, in view of which the legislature
used general terms with the purpose of reaching all phases of
that evil, and thereafter, unexpectedly, it is developed that
the general language thus employed is broad enough to reach
cases and acts which the whole history and life of the country
affirm could not have been intentionally legislated against.
It is the duty of the courts, under those circumstances, to say
that, however broad the language of the statute may be, the
act, although within the letter, is not within the intention of
the legislature, and therefore cannot be within the statute.
The judgment will be reversed, and the case remandedfor
further proceedings in accordance,with, this opinion.

In re COOPER, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
Nfo. 6. Original. Argued November 9, 10, 1891.-Decided February 29,1892.

The District Court for the District of Alaska has jurisdiction in admiralty
to forfeit vessels for violating the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 1956 on
any of the navigable waters of the United States which were acquired
by the treaty with Russia, concluded March 30, 1857, 15 Stat. 539.

IN RE COOPER.
Syllabus.
Prohibition will not go after judgment and sentence, unless want of jui.sdiction appears on the face of the proceedings; but, before judgment,
the superior court can examine not simply the process and pleadings
technically of record, but also the facts and evidence upon which action
was taken.
United States District Courts, sitting in admiralty, are courts of superior
jurisdiction, and every intendment is made in favor of their decrees;
and when it appears that the court had jurisdiction of the subject matter
and either that the defendant was duly served with process or that he
voluntarily appeared and made defence, the decree is not open collaterally to any inquiry upon the merits or jurisdiction dependent on those
facts.
On an application for a writ of prohibition, the inquiry being confined to
the matter of jurisdiction, only the record proper should be looked into,
and not documents and other evidence in addition to the record which
may be sent up under the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 698.
The latter part of section 7 of the act of May 17, 1884, 23 Stat. 24, 26, may
be read as follows: "And the final judgments and decrees of said District Court of Alaska may be reviewed by the Supreme Court *of the
United States as in other cases;" and, being so read, its meaning is that
this court may review the final judgments or decrees of that court, as in
cases of the same kind from other courts.
When a party aggrieved by a judgment has an appeal to this court which
becomes inefficacious through his neglect, a writ of prohibition to prevent the enforcement of the judgment will not issue from this court.
The act of February 16, 1875, 18 Stat. 315, c. 77, § 1, applies to appeals
taken from decrees of the District Court of the United States for the
District of Alaska, sitting in admiralty.
At a time when a diplomatic correspondence was going on between the
United States and Great Britain respecting the extent of the jurisdiction
of the former in the waters of Behring Sea, a libel in admiralty was filed
in the District Court of Alaska, alleging a seizure by the United States
authorities of a vessel "within the limits of Alaska Territory, and in
the waters thereof and within the civil and judicial District of Alaska,"
to wit: "Within the waters of that portion of Behring Sea belonging to
the United States and said district, on waters navigable from the sea by
vessels of ten or more tons burden," and charging that "the said vessel
and her captain, officers and crew were then and there found engaged in
killing fur seals within the limits of Alaska Territory and in the said
waters thereof, in violation," etc. The findings of fact followed this
description, -and described the act complained of as done " within the
waters of Alaska." No request was made to have the findings made
more specific as to the place where the offence was committed. The
vessel being condemned, the claimants appealed to this court. The appeal was duly entered and docketed, and was then dismissed on application of the appellant, who applied for leave to file an application for a
writ of prohibition to restrain the court below from enforcing the sen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
tence or the decree of condemnation. Leave being granted, the petition
was filed, and it is now Held,
(1) That the legal inference from the findings of fact is, that the act
took place within the jurisdiction of the United States;
(2), That an appeal lay to this court from the decree of the District
Court;
(3) That, the District Court having found the facts, this court would
be limited, on appeal, to the consideration of the questions of
law presented by the record;
(4) That the District Court on the pleadings and facts found had jurisdiction of the case, and the petitioner might have prosecuted an
appeal; and that the- appeal taken was insufficient for the petitioner's purposes, because of his neglect to have included in the
findings the exact locality of the seizure;
(5) That for this reason the writ of prohibition should not issue: the
court resting its denial of it on this ground, although it might have
placed it upon the well settled principle that an application to a
court to review the action of the political department of the government, upon a question pending between it and a foreign power,
and to determine whether the government was right or wrong,
made while diplomatic negotiations were still going on, should
be denied.

Tim court stated the case as follows:
This is an application for a writ of prohibition to the District Court of the United States for the District of Alaska, to
restrain the enforcement of qasentence of forfeiture and condemnation entered in that court, September 19, 18S7, on a
libel filed by the United States against the schooner W. P.
Saytyard, upon the ground that that court was without jurisdiction in the premises. The petitioner, Cooper, is the owner
of the vessel, and with his petition a suggestion was presented
by Sir John Thompson, K. C. . G., Her Britannic Majesty's
Attorney General of Canada, with the knowledge and approval
of the Imperial government of Great Britain, requesting the
aid of the court for ,the claimant, a subject of her Britannic
Majesty.
The motion for leave to file the application was made on
the twelfth of January, 1891, and leave was granted on the
second day of February. The application having accordingly
been fileda rule was issued against the judge of the District

Il'-RE 'COOPER.
Statement of the Case.

Court of Alaska to show cause why the writ should not go.
The petition is set out in extenso in In re Cooper, Petitioner,
138 U. S. 404. The main averments are that the schooner
W. P. Sayward, a British vessel, while lawfully sailing upon
the high seas in latitude 440 43' north and longitude 167' 51!
west, and fifty-nine miles from any land whatsoever, was forcibly seized by an armed revenue vessel of the United States
and forcibly carried into the port of Sitka, and there forcibly
detained and delivered to the United States marshal, and by
the attorney for the United States of the District of Alaska
libelled in the District Court, and by said court condemned
for having killed far seal at the place of seizure. It was further averred that the decree of forfeiture was made and entered September 19, 1887; that the petitioner, havifig been
admitted as the actual owner of the said schooner as claimant,
appealed to this court April 26, 1888, and docketed said appeal
here October 30, 1888, but dismissed the same, (January 12,
1891,) because advised that an appeal would not lie, and that
the decree was and is a nullity; and that all the matters of
fact alleged in the petition, save those of which this court
takes judicial notice, appear by the reord and proceedings of
the District Court; and it was claimed in argument that the
petitioner, having referred to the original record and proceedings of the District Court, was entitled to have the same read
and considered as part of his case in this court, and he accordingly filed a complete and authenticated transcript of the
entire proceedings in the District Court, as he alleged.
A return was made in due course by John S. Bugbee, judge
of the court in question,, stating that he was not such judge at
the time the decree was entered, but was appointed and qualified on December 7, 1889, and he thereupon' sets forth "the
final record of the cause in xqhich said decree of forfeiture was
made and entered, as prepared under section 750 of the Revised Statutes of the United States from the files, minutes and
journal of said District Court of the United States, District of
Alaska," as follows:
The librol dated and filed September 13, 1887:
"The libel of information of X. D: Ball, attorney of the

OCTOBER T-ERAI 1891.
Statement of the Case.

United States, for. the District of Alaska, who prosecutes on
behalf of the said United States in the name And on behalf of
the said United States, alleges and informs. as 'follows, to wit:
"That L. G. Shepard, an officer in the revenue marine service of the United States, duly commissioned by the President
of the United States, in command of the United States revenue
cutter Rush, and on special duty in the waters of the District
of Alaska, heretofore,'to Wvit, on the 9th day of July,

A.D.

1887,

within the limits of Alaska Territory and-in the waters thereof,
and within the civil and judicial district of:Alaska, to wit,
within the waters of *:hat portion of Behring Sea lelonging
to the United States and said district, on waters navigable
from the sea by vessels of te_ or more tons burden, seized the
schooner W. P. Sayward, of Victoria, 13. 0., her- tackle, apparel, boats, cargo and furnit-re, being the property 6f some
person or persons unknown to said attorney.,
"The property is more particularly described as follows, to
wit: Schooner W. P. Sayward, of Victoria, B. C,, of 59 and -,V
tons .burden, as per register, standing and rffnning rigging,
sails, chronometer, and nautical instruments, cloeklamps, carpenter's tools, books, two anchors, .casks, cooking and table
utensils, provisions and 477 fur-seal skins and .all other property found upon or appurtenant to said schooffer.
"That L. G. Shepard was then and there duly commissioited
and authorized by the proper department of the United States
to make said seizure.
"That all said property was then and.there seazed as" forfeited to the United States for the following causes "That the said vessel and her captain officersand crew were
then and there found engaged in kiIlinF fur-seals within the
limits of Alaska Territory, and in- the said- waters thereof, in
violation of section 1956 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States; that all the said property, after' being seized as aforesaid, was brought into the port of Sitka, in said district, and
turned over to the United States marshal-of this district, with
the exception of the 477 fur-geal -skins, which latter were
brought into the port of Oonalaska, in said Territbry, and
delivered into tihe keeping of Jsaac Andersgn, a deputy United

IN RE COOPER.
Statement of the Case.

States marshal of this district, and all of said property is
now within the judicial district of Alaska, United Sfates of
America; and 'said M. D. Ball, attorney as-aforesaid, further
informs and alleges that on the 9th day of July, A.D. 1887,
Geo. R. Ferry and certain other persons whose names are to
the said United States attorney unknown, who were then and
there engaged on board of said schooner W. P. Sayward as
seamen and seal hunters, did, under the directions and by the
authority of Geo. R. Ferry, then and there master of said
schooner, engage in killing and did kill, in the Territory and
District of Alaska and in the waters thereof, thirty fur seals,
in violation of section 1956 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States in such cases made and provided.
"That the said 477 fur-seal skins and other goods so seized
on board the schooner W. P. Sayward constituted the cargo
of said schooner at the time of the killing of said fur-seals and
at the time of said seizure..
"And said attorney saith that all and singular the premises
were and are true, and within the admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction of the United States and of this honorable court,
and that by reason thereof and by force of the statutes in such
cases made and provided, the aforementioned schooner, being
a vessel of 59.79 tons burden, and her said apparel, tackle,
boats, cargo and furniture became and are forfeited to the use
of the United States.
"Wherefore, the said attorney prays that the usual process
and monition of this honorable court issue in this behalf
against said schooner and all said hereinbefore described property to enforce the, forfeiture thereof, and requiring notice to
be given to all persons to appear and show cause on the return
day of said process why said forfeiture should not be decreed,
and that after due proceedibgs are had all said property be
adjudged, decreed and condemned as forfeited to the use of
the United States, and for such other relief as may be proper
in the premises."
The monition dated September 15, 1887, and returned and
filed September 19, 1887; and the return.
Order of court of September 15, 1887, granting leaVe to the

OCTOBER TERMt, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

proctor for claimants to file claim of master for owner and the
claim; also order granting leave to proctor for claimants to
file a demurrer to the libel; and the demurrer.
Order of court overruling the demurrer on the same day
and leave granted to file.answer; and the answer:
"And now comes George R. Ferry, master, as aforesaid,
and for answer to the libel of information filed herein, says:
"1st. He admits that L. G. Shepard was an officer of the
United States revenue marine service, duly commissioned, and
that he was, atthe time the property proceeded against herein
was seized, in command of the United States revenue-cutter Rush and on official duty at the time the said seizure
was made, and was-then and there duly commissioned and
authorized by the proper department of the United States to
make said seizure, but denies that said seizure was made within the waters of Alaska Territory or within the civil and
judicial district of Alaska or in any portion of Behring Sea
belonging to the United States, or upon any other waters belonging to libellants navigable frpm the sea by vessels of ten,
tons or over.
"2nd. Denies that said vessel, her captain, officers, and
drew, were then and there found engaged in killing fur seals
within the limits of Alaska Territory, or in the waters thereof,
or that they were then and there violating any law of the
United States.
"3rd. Denies that on the ninth day of July, A.D. 1887,
any -other person or persons did then and there, under the
direction and authority of the said George R. Ferry, or any
other person, or at all, kill any fur seal within the District of
Alaska, or ini the waters thereof.
. "14th. Denies that the property proceeded against in this
cause, or any portion thereof, ever became forfeited to the
United States; wherefore the said claimant prays that the
libel of information filed herein may be dismissed, and for any
other just and equitable relief as to this court may seem meet
and proper."
. September 19, 1887, leave granted proctor for owners to file
a waiver of the publication and posting of the notice of the

IN RE COOPER.
Statement of the Case.

libel and seizure of the property granted, and waiver filed the
same day:
"And now comes W. Clark, Esq., proctor for the owners of
the above-named schooner, as appears by their claim filed
herein, and on behalf of said owners, and being authorized
thereto, waives said owners' right to publication and posting
of the notice of the libel and seizure of the property being
proceeded against in this cause, and waives also time of hearing, and announces himself ready to proceed to trial."
Record entry of September 19, 1887:
"This cause having been tried and submitted, the court,
from the evidence, finds the following facts and conclusions of
law:
"1st. That on the 9th day of July, 1887, and theretofore,
the master and crew of the-defendant vessel were engaged in
killing and did kill fur sealg in that portion of iBehring Sea
ceded by Russia to the United States by the treaty of March,
1867, and within the waters of Alaska, in violation of section
1956 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and that
the promiscuous shooting of fur-bearing animals in the waters
adjacent to the islands of St. Paul and St. George and in that
portion of Behring Sea east of 193d degree of west, longitude
has a tendency to frighten and prevent the said animals from
going upon these islands, as they have been accustomed to in
the past.
"2d. That on the said 9th day of July, 1887, said vessel,
her furniture, apparel, tackle, cargo and 477 fur-seal skins
were seized in said waters by the commanding officer of .the
United States revenue-cutter Rush, then and there engaged in
the revenue marine service of the United States.
"3d. That said commanding officer was duly commissioned
by the President of the United States, and made such seizure
under the direction and by the authority of the Treasury
Department of the United States.
"4th. That said property so seized was delivered by said
commanding officer of said cutter to the United States marshal of the District of Alaska, and is now within the jurifdiftion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

"As conclusions of law, the court finds that the plaintiff is
entitled to a decree of forfeiture against said vessel, her tackle,
apparel, furniture, cargo and the said 477 fur-seal skins."
Motion in arrest of decree, filed September ,19, 1887:
"At this time comes W. Clark, proctor for claimants, and
moves the court to arrest the decree of forfeiture in the said
cause for the following reasons, to wit:
"1st. That the libel of information herein does not state
facts sufficient in law to enable the United States to have and
maintain this action for the forfeiture of the property seized
herein.
"2d. That the evidence produced on the part of the United
States in this cause is not sufficient upon which to base a
decree of forfeiture.
"3d. That from the evidence produced on the part of the
United States it appears that this court has no jurisdiction
over the subject-matter of this.cause.
"4th. That the act of Congress under which the seizure
herein was made is ccntrary to the spirit of international law,
and ulta ires, in that it purports to give the United States
jurisdiction over a portion of the high seas more than three
marine leagues from its shores, and purports to establish an
international boundary line in mid-ocean with no definite
terminal points and impossible to determine by absolute measurement or clearly define by marks.
"Therefore claimants pray that said decree may be forever
arrested and this cause dismissed."
Order denying motion, and decree of September 19, 1887:
"The marshal having returned on the monition issued to
him in the above-entitled action that in obedience thereto he
had attached the said schooner W. P. Sayward, her tackle,
apparel; boats, cargo and furniture, and proctor for claimants,
on behalf of said owners, having waived said owners' right to
publication and posting of the notice of the libel and seizure,
and also time of hearing, and has given due notice to all
persons claiming the same to appear before this court on the
19th day of Sept., 1887, at 11 o'clock A.L, at the District of
Alaska, United States of America, then and there to interpose

M RE COOPER.
Statement of the Case.

their claims and make their allegations in that behalf, and
Geo. R. Ferry, the captain of said vessel, having heretofore
filed a claim to all of said property on behalf of J. D. Warren
and Andrew Laing, of Victoria, B. C., and no other persons
having appeared and no other claims or allegations having
been made or filed by any other person or persons, and the
usual proclamation having been made, and said cause having
been heard this day by consent of parties, on the pleadings
and proofs, IM. D.. Ball, Esq., U. S. dist. atty., by A. K. Delaney, Esq., of counsel in that behalf, appearing as advocate
for said libellant, and W. Clark, Esq., as advocate for said
claimants, and said cause having been submitted to the court
for decision, and due deliberation being had in the premises,
and the court having filed his findings and conclusions of law
herein, it is now thereupon ordered, sentenced and decreed as
follows:
"1st. That all persons whosoever, other than said claimants
be, and they are hereby, decreed in contumacy and default.
"2d. That said schooner W. P. Sayward, her tackle,
apparel, boats, and furniture, and her cargo of 477 fur-seal
skins, now in the custody of the deputy U. S. marshal at
Oonalaska, and all property found upon or appurtenant to
said schooner be, and the same are hereby, condemned as
forfeited to the use of the United States.
"3d. That unless an appeal be taken to this decree within
the time limited and'prescribed by law and the rules of court,
the usual writ of venditioni exponas will be issued to the
marshal, commanding him to sell all the said property and
bring the proceeds unto this court, to be distributed according
to law. Costs to be taxed and are awarded against said
claimants."
Motion for a stay of proceedings dated October 3, 1887,
and filed and overruled December 9, 1887; motion for a stay
of three months considered and overruled same day; motion
for leave to appeal filed and granted same day; motion to
renew leave to appeal made and overruled April 14, 1888, but
subsequently granted April 16. April 19, 1888, motion for
leave to file stipulation and consent that vessel be thereupon
VOL. CXlxa-31

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

discharged, and order to that effect upon stipulation filed and
approved, as follows:
"Whereas a libel of information was filed in the within
cause on the 13th day of September, 1887, in the above court,
by the honorable M. Ball, U. S. district attorney for the
District of Alaska, against the schooner W. P. Sayward, her
tackle, apparel, furniture and cargo, for the reasons and
causes in said libel mentioned and set forth; and whereas a
decree of forfeiture was on the 19th day of September, 1887,
rendered against the said vessel, her tackle, apparel, furniture,
and cargo, and against Thomas Henry Cooper, of San Francisco, intervening as the sole and only claimant t6 said vessel,
tackle, apparel, furniture and cargo; and whereas the said
vessel, tackle, apparel, furniture and cargo, are now in the
custody of the U. S. marshal for the said District of Alaska
under process issued from this court, and in pursuance of the
prayer of the said libel; andwhereas the value of the said
vessel, her tackle, apparel, furniture and cargo, has been
appraised at $7289.50, as appears by the report of the
appraisers duly appointed and sworn by this court, and on file
herein; and whereas the said Cooper, claimant as aforesaid, is
desirous of, and purposes, appealing from the said decree of
this honorable court:
"Now, therefore, we the undersigned, the stipulatofs, submitting ourselves to the jurisdiction of this court, do acknowledge ourselves to be bound unto the United States of America,
the said claimant, Thomas Henry Cooper, as principal, and
Bailey Gatzert and Jacob Furth as sureties, jointly and severally, in the sum of $7289.50, lawful money of the United
States, hereby consenting and agreeing that a summary decree
may be. rendered against us, and each of us, for the above
appraised value, with interest thereon from this date, and that
execution may thereon issue against our goods, chattels and
lands for the payment thereof or any part thereof which shall
be ordered or decreed: Upon condition, nevertheless, that if
the undersigned stipulators shall prosecute their said appeal
without unnecessary delay, and abide by any final decree that
may be rendered by the Supreme Court of the United States

IN RE COOPER.'
Statement of the Case.

of America, to which this cause may be appealed, and in the
event of the said decree of this honorable court being affirmed
by such court of appellate jurisdiction, then if said stipulators
pay the amount named in this stipulation into this court this
stipulation to'be void, otherwise to remain in full force and
virtue."
Bond for costs on appeal filed and approved, and April 27,
1888, leave granted to file affidavit on appeal, and appeal to
the Supreme Court of the United States granted, and affidavit
of James Douglas Warren, as agent for the claimant, and
petition for appeal filed, and appe'al allowed.
July 18, 1888, record amended so as to substitute the name
of Cooper as owner for that of Warren.
The return of the District Judge thus concludes:
"Respondent further says that he is in receipt of an uncertified copy of the dismissal off the appeal taken to the Supreme
Court from said decree of condemnation.
"Further answering, respondent says that he is advised
that in determining his power and duty to enforce said decree
as judge of said District Court of the United States, District of
Alaska, he is limited to and concluded by an examination of
the final record of the admiralty proceeding in which such
decree was entered, as set out above in accordance with section 750 of the Revised Statutes of the United States. And
he is further advised that this court in considering whether a
writ should issue against him to prohibit him from enforcing
said decree, is in like manner limited to and concluded by said
record as above disclosed. Respondent respectfully submits
that upon such record the District Court of the United States,
District of Alaska, had full jurisdiction to make and enter the
decree, and that it is the duty of this respondent to enforce
such decree upon receiving the mandate from the Supreme
Court issued in due course upon the dismissal of the appeal.
Because of this record respondent is advised that all-6ther facts
stated in the petition accompanying the rule to show cause
served upon this respondent are irrelevant and incompetent,
and need not be answered by him.
"Respondent respectfully submits to the consideration of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Petitioner.

the court whether .upon the foregoing allegations of this
return the writ of prohibition should issue against him."
It is contended by the petitioner's counsel that the return is
on its face improper and insufficient: First,because the respondent was bound, if he submitted "anything disclosed by
the files, journal and minutes of his court for the. consideration of this court," to submit everything. Second, because
the record returned by respondent, as prepar6d under section
'750, Revised Statutes, is not authenticated "in any manner
known to the law and cannot be noticed by the court."
Third, because the respondent had "no right to decide for
himself without allowing this court the opportunity to examine the correctness of his decision, as matter of law, that any
facts stated in a petition accompanying a rule to show cause,
issuing out of this court and served upon said judge, are
'irrelevant and incompetent.'" Fourth, because the record
is on its face incomplete, since it shows a motion in arrest of
judgment filed and overruled, and the evidence on file was
properly a part of said motion. Fifth, because the record set
out in the return "does not show jurisdiction in the District
Court to make and enter a decree of forfeiture against the
W. P. Sayward, but does show that said court had no jurisdiction to make and enter said decree."
-Yr. Joseph H. Choate and Mr. Calderon Carlisle for the
petitioner.
The question of this court's jurisdiction to issue the writ in
this case is no longer open, as it has been adjudicated at the
former hearing. In re Cooper, 138 U. S. 404, 414.
The case as now presented involves, at the outset and as
preliminary to, the main question, the consideration of two
propositions, which may be stated as follows: (1) In determining whether or not the said court had jurisdiction, is this
court limited to the examination of any particular portion of
the record, or is its examination coextensive with the examination and acts of the condemning court ? (2) Does an examination of the entire record and proceedings affirmatively
establish the facts set forth in the petition for the writ?

IN RE COOPER.
Argument for Petitioner.

I. In determining the question of jurisdiction in the court
below, is the examination by this court limited to any particular portion of the proceedings, or is the examination coextensive with the examination and acts of the condemning court?
The issuing of writs of prohibition is part of the appellate
jurisdiction of this court, and in its exercise, the superior
court not only may but must, it is submitted, revise and review the whole proceedings of the inferior court of admiralty.
The same matter, showing want of jurisdiction, which may
be averred before sentence, as good ground of prohibition,
must, if proved in the proceedings of the inferior court furnish
good ground for prohibition after sentence. This is well ilhistrated by comparing the case of The Cassius, 2 Dall. 365,
with that of Tie -Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116.
It was urged, at the former argument upon motion for
leave to file, that the phrase." the face of the proceedings"
meant the libel, or pleadings, at most, and not the entire proceedings, and several early English cases were cited as supporting that view, but it is submitted that they do not, in any
sense, so incline. On the contrary, that the court will examine the entire proceedings and pass upon all questions going
to the jurisdiction of the court below, upon which that court
did or could pass, abundantly appears by a series of decisions,
the accuracy of which has never been questioned, and the
authority of which is undoubted. Jones v. Owens, 5 Dowl.
& L. 669; Marsden v. T]airdle, 3 El. & Bl. 695; Thompson v.
Igham, 14 Q. B. 710; .King v. BrooYr2, 12 Mod. 134; Elston
v. Rose, L. R. 4 Q. B. 5; S. C.sub orn. Elstone v. Bose, 9 B.
& S. 509; Hunt v. North.Staffodshire Railway, 2 H. & N.
451; Exparte Heyworth, 14 Q. B. D. 49; Brown v. Cocking,
9 B. & S. 503; -Tones v. Curey, 2 Lowndes, Max. & Poll. 474;
Jos~eL _..
Henriy, 1 Lowndes, Max. & Poll. 388; J3fayor of
.London v. Coe, L. R. 2 H. L. 239..
Upon these authorities, and upon the principles of common
sense, it must therefore be admitted that a superior court
has the power, right and duty to examine all matters touching the question of jurisdiction which were before the court
below, and that it can never be said that in a case where the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Petitioner.

important question of the jurisdiction of a court is involved a
superior court can solemnly adjudicate, from a view of one
part of the proceedings, that the court below had or had not
jurisdiction, when, by turning a leaf i1i its record, the contrary
would conclusively appear.
II. Upon the face of the proceedings all the facts averred
in the petition fully appear. The record nowhere discloses
that the Sayward was ever, at any time prior to the seizure,
at a closer proximity to any shores of the United States than
ten miles; and there is no evidence of the killing of seal by
the master or crew of the vessel at any particular place. The
positions of the vessel are given in her log, and upon reference
to the official map of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, as shown
by the certificate of the officer in charge thereof, the nearest
of said positions to any land was ten miles, and the pass of
the four mountains through which she entered the Behring
Sea is twenty-two miles wide betiveen land at its narrowest
point.
In this connection the language of this court applicable to
fancied evidence becomes appropriate: "The rule in such
cases is, that if there be a total defect of evidence to prove
the essential fact, and the court find it without proof, the action of the court is void." Lamp Cimney Co. v. Brass &
Coper Co., 91 U. S. 656,. 659. And, as said in Brown v.
Cocking, 9 B. & S. 503, 509, a case of prohibition before referred to, "if it decides without evidence that a case is within
its jurisdiption . . . this court will interfere."
The petitioner s case is not weakened by the narrower contention as to the face of the proceedings made by the respondent in his return to the rule. That this vessel was a British
vessel, appears on the face of the libel wherein she is described
as "schooner W. P. Sayward of Victoria, B. 0., of 59 and
tons burden as per register." , That the place of seizure
and the place of the offence was on the high seas appears on
the face of this so-called final record. The libel alleged that
said seizure was made "within the waters of that portion of
Behring Sea belonging to the United States," and that the
vessel, her captain and crew, were "then and there" found

IN RE COOPER.
Argument for Petitioner.

engaged in killing fur seals "in said waters." It is confidently submitted, as matter of lawnthat no portion of Behring
Sea belongs to the United States.
III. When Congress, in sebtion 1956 of the Revised Stat-,
utes, speaks of "Alaska Territory and the waters thereof," it
can only mean (as far as the sea is concerned) three miles or a
marine league from the shore of the continent of America, or
from the shores of one of the adjacent islands, which is all
that can be claimed under treaty or the law of nations.
The amendatory act of March 3, 1889, does not in any way
enlarge the effect of section 1956, because we can get no light
on the meaning of the words "all the dominion of the United
States in the waters of Behring Sea" from the words of the
treaty, and because the law of nations limits the "dominion"
of any nation in the waters of any sea to three miles or a
marine league from the shore.
Assuming that the court is bound to follow and execute the
law as laid down by Congress, it still remains clear 'that Congress never contemplated the exclusion of the vessels of other
nations from the right of navigation and fishing outside of our
territorial waters bounded by the marine league, and that
there was no law for the seizure by the Secretary of the Treasury of a British vessel so engaged. From the public proceedings of the two Houses of Congress, it appears that the Senate
distinctly refused to define the extent, of the dominion of the
United States in Bebring Sea, and that the House consented
to abandon its purpose to define that extent by municipal
law; while the act of Congress of March 3, 1889, representing
the final determination of Congress not to undertake to define
the extent of the dominion of the United Siates in Behring
Sea was approved by the President.
IV. The Sayward, being a British vessel, was exempt on
the high seas, fifty-nine miles from land, from the jurisdiction
of the United States, its laws and its courts. 1 Phil. Int. Law,
364; Wheaton's Int" Law, 119; The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116;
The Santis&ima Tvinidad, 7 Wheat. 283 ; Crapo v. elly, 16
Wall. 610; Wilson v. fe.37 amee, 102 U. S. 572; Lawrence's
Wheaton, 266, n.; -Le Louis, 2 Dodson, 210; T e Antelope, 10

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Petitioner.

Wheat. 66; Dana's Wheaton, 258, n.; Mr. Webster to Lord
Ashburton, (1842), 6 Webster's Works, 320; Wharton's Dig.
Int. Law, pp. 106 to 110.
V. The power and duty of thi court to decide whether the
Alaska court had or had not jurisdiction, cannot be affected
by any action of the executive. The political departments of
the government having before them the question of "the extent of the dominion of the United States in the Behring Sea,"
which they could, doubtless, by conjoint actions have determined so as to bind the courts, have chosen neither to- determine the extent of the dominion of the United States nor to
make any provision of law by which that extent is to be determined by the executive. The determination of that extent is,
therefore, by the Constitution and laws of the United States
-made a duty of this court in the case at bar, involving the
l~gality of the seizure and condemnation of a foreign vessel,
alleged to be in violation of the law of nations, and without
any warrant of any law of the United States.
The question of the legality of the seizure of British vessels
in Behring Sea by the United States is a question of law, not
only under the law of nations, but under the municipal law
of the United States. The judiciary is not asked to overrule
the executive and Congress in a position which they have
taken towards Great Britain, but to do, what it cannot avoid
doing in a case involving private right-to construe acts of
Congress and a treaty, which are all parts of the supreme law
of the land, and which leave to its construction the true meaning of the words, "the Territory of Alaska and the waters
thereof"" and "dominion of the United States in Behring
Sea." With the broader international question this court is
not asked by counsel for petitioner to concern itself; and even
that is. a matter not between the United States and Great
Britain, but between the United States and the civilized world,
before which the Congress of the United States has distinctly
refused to assert, by the mere force of a municipal law, any
extent of dominion not recognized by the law of nations.
While it is plain that within its lawful sphere the executive
cannot be either superseded or overruled by this court, it can-

IN RE COOPER.
Argument for Petitioner.

not be admitted that this court can decline to issue the writ,
because its issuance, according to law, might affect some contention of the executive. Cohens v. irginia,6 Wheat. 264;
Exparte Xilligan, 4 Wall. 2.
This court has had to deal with the action of executive
departments in many cases. Gelston, v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 246;
Williarns V. Sqffolk- Insurance Co., 13 Pet. 415; .Kennett v.
Chambers, 14 How. 38, as to the recognition of a new State:
United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 610; The Divina Pastorn,
4 Wheat. 52, as to a civil war in another country: Foster v.
.Arilson, 2 Pet. 253; Garoia v. Lee, 12 Pet. 5111 as to boundaries: Freling]luysen,v. .ey, 110 U. S. 63; Alling v. United
States, 114 U. S. 562; Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 202;
Uadted States v. Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407, as to the Secretary
of State and funds in that department: United States v. Holliday, 3 Wall. 407, as to the Secretary of the Interior: .Merritt
v. Welsh, 104 U. S. 694; .3forill v. Jones, 106 U. S. 466, as to
the Secretary of the Treasury.
The application before this court is not an attempted proceeding against the United States. This court is not asked to
control or direct or interfere with the executive in the performance of any duty imposed by the Constitution or the laws. It
is not asked to send its process to any of the officers or agents
of the executive. It is a ed for a judicial writ to be directed
to the District Court of Ajlaska, in accordance with the special
authority given by the laws of the United States. The only
question now before the court is, shall this writ issue? The
right of the executive to deal with persons and property can
never, under the Constitution of the United St.ates, be a political question. Little v. Barreme, 2 Cranch, 170.
Without the clear authority of a law of Congress, the executive can never, by determining a so-called political question,
or by construing an act of Congress or a treaty," conclfide the
rights of persons or property, under the protection of the Constitution and laws of the United States, or conclude the courts
of the United States, in a determination of these rights. Littl
v. Barreme, ubi sup.; United States v. Raus~her, 119 U. S.
407, 418.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
. Argument

for Petitioner.

VI. No action heretofore taken by the United States government amounts to an assertion of any sovereignty in the
United States, which would give jurisdiction to its courts over
any portion of the Behring Sea or the wild animals therein,
beyond a marine league from any shores of the United States.
:N'ot only does the diplomatic correspondence of the United
States fail to disclose such an assertion of sovereignty or
definiteness of position with respect to this question, as would
preclude the court from giving to it original exaihination, but
the. right of the court to examine and, the propriety of its
determining 'this question has been expressly acknowledged
and definitely preferred by that very department of the gov-.
ernment.
VII. It is earnestly insisted that the allegation in the
d.diplomatic correspondence of the United States of the admission by Great Britain of any exclusive jurisdiction of Russia in
Behring Sea cannot in the absence of an act of Congress or a
treaty, affect the legality of this seizure and condemnation,
even if the allegation were well founded. The allegation and
contention of the United- States in this respect are, however,
without foundation.
The contention, advanced for the first time by the United
States in this controversy, after an acquiescence of more than
sixty'five years in the world's construction of the treaties of
1824 and 1825, that the phrase "Pacific Ocean," as used in
those treaties, was not intended to include, and did not include
the body of water which is now known as the Behring Sea,
because the words "Behring Sea" were not used in either
treaty, is absolutely without foundation; and yet the amazing
concession is mnide by the United.States that, "if .Great Britain can maintain her position that the Behring Sea at the
time of the treaties with Russia of 18241 and 1825, was included
in the Pacific Ocean, the government of the United States
has no well grounded complaint against her."
It is said that Great Britain herself enjoys an exclusive
fishery for pearls in Australian waters under a municipal
law providing for its protection, but until that law is sought'
to be enforced against the vessels of some friendly nation in

IN RE COOPER.
Argument for Petitioner.

time of peace, it certainly cannot be cited as authority for the
subject in hand; and even if Great Britain should resort to
force against foreign nations in,
support of its claim, such a circumstance would not justify the legality of the present seizure,
for courts do not administer laws in that way. They administer justice as based upon recognized rules of law. But
the fact is that the special act in question, by its own terms,
expressly limits its provisions to British ships, and boats
attached to British ships.
VIII. The defect of jurisdiction in the District Court was
not waived, and no act of the parties could cure such defect
or confer jurisdiction.
The judicial power of the United States is limited not alone
with reference to the States of the Union, but also with reference to the nations of the earth; not only by the Constitution
of the United States, but by the principles of the law of nations, recognized by our Constitution and laws. In the words
of Chief Justice Marshall : "The law of nations is the law of
all tribunals in the society of nations."
We deny that the judicial power of the United States
extends to the trial and condemnation of a British vessel,
wrongfully seized in time of peace on the high seas, fifty-nine
miles from land.
We.deny that the forcible bringing in to the limits of a district of the United States of such vessel, so unlawfully seized,
can enlarge or extend the judicial power of the United States.
We deny that aniy act of the United States' executive officers, from the President to the lowest, - that any act of the
officers of a court of the United States, or that any act of the
court itself, could make the judicial power of the United
States extend to such a case.
The proceedings. of the inferior court of admiralty are
before this court for a single purpose -to see if that court
has proceeded without jurisdiction or in excess of jurisdiction.
The test is well stated by Mr. Justice Miller in the case of
Cooper v. Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308. The court will examine
the facts of this case as they appear on the face of the proceedings, for there are no presumptions in favor of the jurisdic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Petitioner.

tion of the courts of the United States. Ex parte Smith, 94
U. S. 455, 456.
The District Court of Alaska never had lawful jurisdiction
of the vessel. No instance court of admiralty of the United
States can gain any jurisdiction of a foreign vessel by a
seizure which the United States, the sovereignty that created
the court, could not authorize, and which, as a matter of fact,
was not authorized any more by the laws of the United Stateg
than by the law of nations.
It is confidently submitted that in the case of this foreign
vessel so seized, the trespass is so connected with the subsequent seizure by the civil authority under process of the District" Court, as to annul the proceedings of that court against
the vessel. "A seizure is a single act, and not a continuous fact. Possession, which follows seizure, is continuous."
Thompson v. f-itman, 18 Wall. 451, 471.
While it is admitted that the vessel was actually in the port
of Sitka when the libel was filed and the monition served, it
is confidently denied that she was within the jurisdiction of
the court of Alaska. In such a case appearance and pleading
to the merits cannot confer jurisdiction. Rhode .Island v.
.Massachusetts,12 Pet. 657. And objections to the jurisdiction
when they g0 to the subject matter and not to the forA
merely of its presentation or to the character of the relibf
prayed are not waiived because they were not made in. the
lower court. Boom .0o. v. Patterson,98 U. S..403; FE parte
Bradley, 7 Wall. 364.
IX. There is no provision for the review of the Alaska
admiralty court except by the writ of prohibition.
It has repeatedly been held by this court that there can be
no review by appeal here unless it is expressly given by an
act of Congress, and that statutes providing for such appeal
caunt be enlarged by implication. Crawford v. Points, Assignee, 13 How. 11; noe Lucy, 8 Wall. 307; Butteft§eld v.
Usher, 91 U. S. 246.
So that no greater right of appeal can be construed oujt of
this act than its terms directly express, and whatever may
have been formerly held, it is now the established doctrine of

IN RE COOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

this court that the right of appeal must be expressly given or
it does not exist.
We submit, as the result of a careful examination of all the
statutes bearing on the subject, that the clear and necessary
construction of the final clause of section 7,of the Alaska act,
is that the appeals shall lie, as in other cases they are allowed
from the decrees and final judgments of District Courts, and
of District Courts acting as Circuit Courts; and while this
does not give a large and extensive right of appeal, the right
of appeal direct from the District Court of Alaska in admiralty
cases, other than prize, to this court has been omitted and
denied.
In submitting to this august tribunal a case involving the
legality, under the laws of our. own country, of an act of the
executive, counsel cannot refrain from quoting the language in
which this court has announced the fundamental principle
which must govern its decision in this aspect of the case.
"No man in this country," says this court, in United States
v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, 220, "is so high that he is above the
law. No officer of the law may set that law at defiance with
impunity. All the officers of the government, from.the highest to the lowest, are creatures of the law, and are bound to
obey it. It is the only supreme power in our system of government; and every man, who, by accepting office, participates in its functions, is only the more strongly bound to
submit to the supremacy, and to observe the limitations which
it imposes upon the exercise of the authority which it gives."
Unless' the laws of the United States admit of no other construction, it is confidently submitted that they will not be
held to justify a seizure and condemnation that violate all the
principles of international law which the United States have
steadily maintained against all the nations of the earth, from
the beginning of their existence.
M. Attorney General and .M. Solicitor General opposing.
M
Mr. CHrn

court.

JusriO@ FuLEnR delivered the opinion of the

OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

By section one of the act of Congress of May 11, 188-, entitled "An act providing a civil government for Alaska," (23
Stat. 24, c. 53,) it is provided "that the territory ceded to the
United States by Russia by the treaty of March thirtieth,
eighteen hundred and sixty-seven, and known as Alaska, shall
constitute a civil and judicial district, the government of
which shall be organized and administered as hereinafter provided. The temporary seat of government of said district ishereby established at Sitka."
The first part of section three is as follows:
"That there shall be, and hereby is, established a District
Court for said district, with the civil and criminal jurisdiction
of District Courts of the United States, and the civil and criminal jurisdiction of District Courts of the United States exercising
the jurisdiction of Circuit Courts, and such other jurisdiction,
.notinconsistent with this act, as may be established by law."
Under this section the court thus established acquired all
the admiralty jurisdiction within the District of Alaska belonging to District Courts of the United States. The City of
Panama,101 U. S. 453.
Section 688, Revised Statutes, provides: "The Supreme
Court shall have power to issue writs of prohibition to the
District Courts when proceeding as courts of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction."
And although we were of opinion
when the. applicatioi for the rule was made, and subsequently
held, (XoAllister v. United States, 141 U. S. 17 4,) that the- District Court for Alaska was not one of the courts mentioned in
Article III of the Constitution, declaring that the judicial
power of the United States shall be vested in one Supreme
Court, and in such inferior courts as Congress shall from time
to time establish, we nevertheless concluded that where the
District Court of Alaska was acting as a District Court of the
United States and, as such, proceeding in admiralty, it came
within that section, and this court had power to issue the writ
of prohibition to that court in a proper case; and as the questions involved could be, in our judgment, more satisfactorily
presented upon a return, we granted the rile. In ,re Cooper,
Petitioner,,13"8 U. S. 404..

IN RE COOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

The writ thus provided for by section 688 is the common
law writ, which lies to a court of admiralty only when that
court is acting in excess of, or is taking.cognizance of matters
not arising within, its jurisdiction. Its office is to prevent an
unlawful assumption of jurisdiction, and not to correct mere
errors and irregularities. Ex parte Gordon, 101 U. S. 515;
.Epate
.F'er'y Cormpany, 104I U. S. 519.
Whether the granting or refusal of the writ is discretionary
or demandable of right has been much debated.
As remarked by Mr. Justice Gray in Snzith v. Tidtney, 116
U. S. 167, 173, it may be said to be discretionary, "where
there is another legal remedy, by appeal of otherwise, or
where the question of the jurisdiction of the court whose action is sought to be prohibited is doubtful, or depends on factswhich are not made matter of record, or where a stranger, as
he may. in England, applies for the writ of prohibition. But
where that court has clearly no jurisdiction o f the suit or prosecution instituted before it, and the defendant therein has
objected to its jurisdiction at the outset, and has no other
remedy, he is entitled to a writ of prohibition as a matter of
right; and a refusal to grant it, where all the proceedings
appear of record, may be reviewed on error."
But it is clear upon reason and authority that where the
case has gone to sentence and the want of jurisdiction does
not appear upon the face of the proceedings, the granting of
the writ, which even if of' right is not of course, is not obligatory upon the court, and the party applying may be precluded
by acquiescence from obtaining it.
Section fourteen of the act of May 1,7,, 1884, provided:
"That the provisions of chtpter three, title. twenty-three, of
the Revised Statutes of the;United States,'relating to the unorganized Territory of. Alaska, shall remain ipi full force, except as herein specially otherwise provided." Chapter 3 of
Title XXIII of the Revised. Statutes is entitled: Provisions
relating to the unorgnized Territory of Alaska" and begins
with section 1954, which ,is as follows: "The laws of the
United States relating to customs, commerce. ahd navigation
are extended to and over all the mainland, islands bnd Waters

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

of the territory ceded to the United States by the Emperor of
Russia by treaty cpncluded at Washington on the thirtieth
day of March, anno Domini, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven,
so far'as the same may be applicable thereto."
By the treaty of March 30, 1867, (15 Stat. 539,) the Emperor of Russia ceded to the United States "all the territory
and dominion now possessed by his said majesty on the contirnent of America and in the adjacent islands, the same being
'contained within the geographical limits herein set forth, to
wit: The eastern limit is the line of demarcation between the
Russian and the British possessions in North America, as es'tablished by the convention between Russia and Great Britain
of February 28-16, 1825, .described in- articles III and IVr of
said convtntion, in the following terms: (Here follows the
description of the eastern limit as given in the convention
referred to.)
- "The western limit-within which the territories and dominion-conveyed are contained, passes through a point in Behring's
straits on the parallel of sixty-five degrees thirty minutes
north latitude, at its intersection, by the meridian which
passes midway between the islands of Krusenstern or Igna\ ook, and the island of Ratmanoff, or Noonarbook, and proceeds due north, without limitation, into the same Frozen
Ocean'. The same western limit, beginning at the same initial
point, proceeds thence in a course nearly southwest through
Behring's straits and Behring's Sea, so as to pass midway between the northwest point of the island of St. Lawrence and
the sohtheast point of Cape Choukotski, -to the meridian of
one hundred and seventy-two west* lougitude; thence, from
the intersection of thatmeridian, in.a southwesterly direction,
so as to pass midway between the island of Attodf and the
Copper Island of the Ko mandorski couplet cr .group in the
North Pacific Ocen--to the meridian of oile hundred and
ninety-three degrees west longitude, so as to include in the
-territory conveyed the whole of the Aleutian Islands east of
that meridian."

*Section 1956, (Tit. XXIII, c. 3,) Revised Statutes, reads thus:
"No. person shall kill any otter, mink, marten, sable or fur,

IN,RE COOPER.
Opinion .of the Court.

seal, or other fur-bearing animal within the limits of Aiasica
Territory, or in the waters thereof; and every person guilty
thereof shall, for each offence, be fined not less than two hundred nor more than one thousand dollars, or imprisoned not
more thah six months, or both; and all vessels, their tackle,
apparel, furniture and cargo, found engaged in violation of
this section shall be forfeited; but the Secretary of the Treasury shall have power to authorize the killing of any such
mink, marten, sable or other fui-bearing animal, except fur
seals, under such regulation as he may presdribe; and it shall
be the duty of the Secretary to prevent the killing of any fur
seal, and to provide for the execution of the provisions of this
section until it is otherwise provided by law; nor shall -he
grant any special privileges under this section."
Section 3 of the act of March 2, 1889, (25 Stat. 1009, c. 415,)
is as follows:
"That section nineteen hundred and fifty-six of the Revised
Statutes of the United States is hereby declared to include
and to apply to all the dominion of. the United States in the
waters of Behring Sea; and it shall be. the duty of the President, at a timely season in each year, to issue his proclamation and cause the game to be published for one month in at
*least one newspapqr if any such there be published at each.
United States port of entry on the Pacific coast, warning all
persons against enteripg said waters foi the purpose of violating the provisions of said section; and he shall also cause one
or more vessels of the United States to diligently cruise said
waters and arrest all persons, and seize all vessels found to be,
or to have been, engaged in any violation of the laws of the
United States therein."
Section 734, Revised Statutes, is as follows:
"Proceedings on seizures, for forfeiture under any law of
the United States, made on the high seas, may be prosecuted
in any district into which the property so seized is brought
and proceedings instituted. Proceedings on such seizures
made within any district shall be prosecuted in the district.
where the seizure is made, except in cases where it is otherwise provided."
VOL. cxi-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Under.section 563, the District Courts have exclusive jurisdiction over forfeitures and seizures on navigable waters, and
on land and on waters not within admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction.' The District Coilt of Alaska had jurisdiction
in admiralty, therefore, to forfeit vessels for violation of section 1956 on any of the navigable waters within the dominion
of the United States, acquired by the treaty of March 30,
1.867.
The contention on behalf of .the petitioner is that it appears
from the record that the schooner Sayward was forcibly
arrested by the United States on the high seas fifty-nine miles
from shorej and forcibly taken within the limits of the District of Alaska, and subjected to condemnation and forfeiture
in the Alaska District Coiirt for the violation of section 1956
of the Revised Statutes of the United States, by its master
and seamen and seal hunters under him, in killing fur s:eal at
the place of seizure; and that the court was absolutely destitute of jurisdiction, because by. the recognized- principles of
international law the territorial waters of each nation and its
municipal jurisdiction on the high seas are limited to three
miles or a marine league from shore. And it is insisted that
when Congress in section 1956 speaks of "Alaska Territory"
and" the waters thereof," it could only mean, so far as the
sea was concerned, three miles or a marine league from the
shore of the continent, or from the shores of one of the adjacent islands, and that the act of March 2, 1889, does not in
,any way enlarge the effect of section 1956, because "the
dominion of the United States in the -waters of Behring Sea"
is limited by the law of nations to the distance from the shore
above mentioned.
If we assume that the record shows the locality Qf the alleged offence and seizure as-stated, it also shows that officers
of the United States, acting under the orders of their government, Seized this vessel engaged in catching seal and took her
into the nearest port; and that the law officers of the'government libelled her and proceeded against her for the viblation
of the laws of the United States, in the District Court, resulting in her condemnation.

LN RE COOPER.
Opinion" of the Court.

How did it happen that the officers received such orders?
It must be admitted that they were given in the assertion on
the part of this government of territorial jurisdiction over
Behring Sea to an extent exceeding fifty-nine miles from the
shores of Alaska; that this territorial jurisdiction, in the enforcement of the laws protecting seal fisheries, was asserted
by actual seizures during the seasons of 1886, 1887 and 1889,
of a number of British vessels; that the government persistently maintains that such jurisdiction belongs to it, based not
only on the peculiar nature of the seal fishieries and the property of the government in them, but also upon the position
that this jurisdiction was asserted by Russia f(r more than
ninety years, and by that government transferred to the United
States; and that negotiations are pending upon the subject.
While it is conceded that in matters committed by the-Constitution and laws of the United States either to Congress or to
the executive, or to both, courts are clearly bound by the
action of Congress or the executive, or both, within the limits
of the authority conferred by the Constitution and laws, yet
it is insisted that Congress and the executive, constituting the
political departments of the government, having before them
the question "of the extent of the dominion of the United
States in the Behring Sea," which they could doubtless by
conjoint action determine so as to bindthe courts, have chosen
neither to determine that extent nor to make any provision of
law by which it is devolved on the executive to determine it,
and that, therefore, it is the duty of this court in the case at
bar, involving the legality of the seizure and condemnation
of a foreign vessel alleged to be in violation of the law of
nations and without warrant of any law of the United States
to determine the question.
Assuming that the executive alone can speak so as to bind
our courts in respect of the sovereignty of foreign territory,
the changes in foreign- governments, the existence of civil war
in fo.reign countries, and the character of a foreign minister,
counsel nevertheless confidently assert "that without the clear
authority of the law of Congress, the executive can never, by
determining a so-called political question or by construing an

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion qf the Cort.

act of Congress or a treaty, conclude the rights of persons or
property under the protection- of the Constitution and laws
of the United States, or conclude the courts of the United
States in a determination of these rights;" and Little v. Brreme, 2 Cranch, 170, 177, and United States v. "&auscer,119
U. S. 407, 418, are cited.
In Little v. Bareme, the legality of the seizure of a French
vessel, coming from a French port, on the high seas, by the
orders of the I1resident, purporting to be issued under an act
of Congress authorizing the seizure of vessels bound to a French
port, but not those coming from a French port, was involved,
and M,r. Chlef Justice Iarshall, delivering the opinion of the
court, said:
"It is by no means clear that the President, of the United
States, whoso high duty it is to ' take care that the laws be
faithfully executed,' and who is commander-in-chief of the
armies and navies of. the United States, might not, without
anoiy special authority for that purpose, in the then existing
state of things, have empowered the officers commanding the
armed vessels of the United States, to seize and send into
port for adjudication A~nerican vessels which were forfeited
by being engaged in this illicit commerce. But when it is
observed that the general clause of this first se 6tion of the
act, Which declares ' that such vessels iay be'seized, and may
be prosecuted in any District or Circuit Court, which shall be
holden within or f6r the district where the seizure shall be
made,' obviously contemplates a seizure within the United
States; and that the fifth section gives a special authority to
seize on the high seas, and limits that authority to the seizure
of vessels boun . or sailing to a French port, the legislature
seem to have prescribed that the manner in which this law
shall be carried into execution, was to exclude a seizure of any
vessel not bound to a French port. Of consequence, however
strong the circumstances might be, which induced Captain
Little to suspect the Flying-Fish to be an American ve~sl,
they could not excuse the detention'of her, since he would not
have been authorized 'to detain. her had she been really
Afnerican."

IN RE COOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

And he states the conclusion of the court to be: "That the
instructions cannot change the nature of the transaction, nor
legalize an act which, without those instructions, would have
been a plain trespass."
In United &ates v. RauschIer, it appeared that the United
States asserted the right under the law of nations to try persons extradited from Great Britain for offences other than
those for which they were extradited, while Great Britain
insisted that no such right existed :under the law of nations

or was conceded by treaty.

The question was, whether, under

the treaty with Great Britain, a man extradited from England
to this country on the charge of murder could be tried here
for another offence, and it was held that he could not be.
And Mr. Justice Miller, delivering the opinion of the court
quoted from the Head .lfoney Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 598, the
following language as determinative of the principle upon
which the court proceeded: "A treaty is prim arily a compact
between independent nations. It depends for the enforcement
of its provisions on the interest and the honor of the governments which are parties to it. If these fail, its infraction
becomes the subject of international negotiations and reclamations, so far as the injured party chooses to seek redress, which
may in the end be enforced by actual war. It is obvious that
with all this the judicial courts have nothing to do and can
give no redress. But a treaty may also contain provisions which
confer certain rights upon the citizens or subjects of one of
the nations.residing in the territorial limits of the other, which
partake of the nature of municipal law, and which are capable
of enforcement as between private parties in the courts of the
country. An illustration of this character is found in treaties
which regulate the mutual rights of citizens and subjects of
the contracting nations in regard to rights of property by
descent or inheritance, when the individuals concerned are
aliens. The Constitution of the United States places such
provisions as these in the same category as other laws of Congress, by its declaration that 'this Constitution and the laws
made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties madeor which shall
be made inder authority of the United States, shall be the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

supreme law of the land.' A treaty, then, is a law of the land,
as an act of Congees is, whenever its provisions prescribe a
rule by which the rights of the private citizen or subject may
be determined. And when such rights are of a nature to be
enforced in a court of justice, that court resorts to the treaty
for a rule of decision for the case before it as it would to a
statute."
As to the third section of the act of March 3, 1889, it is
argued-that Congress intentionally declined to determine the
extent of the dominion of the United States in the Behring
Sea, as shown by its action during the steps attending the
passage of the bill. That section, as the bill passed the House,
contained the words: "All the waters of Behring Sea in
Alaska embraced within the boundary lines mentioned and
described in the treaty with Russia, dated March 30, A.D. 1867,
by which the Territory of Alaska was ceded to the United
States." But as finally enacted these words were' omitted,
and the expression "A ll the d9minion of the United States in
the waters of Behring Sea" substituted. Section two of the
bill as originally introduced in the Senate contained the words
in question, but they were omitted in a substitute adopted by
the Senate, and added by the House, by way of amendment,
as section three. To this amendment the Senate disagreed,
and the section, as it now stands, was the result of a conference between the two houses. If reference could be properly
made to such matters, (for the act, as finally approved, must
speak for itself,) still we do not concur in the view that it
follows that Congress thereby expressly invited the judicial
branch of the government to determine what are "the limits
of Alaska Territory and the waters thereof," and what is "the
dominion of the United States in the waters of Behring Sea,"
and think, on the contrary, that there is much force in the
.position that, whatever the reason for the conservative course
pursued by the Senate, the enactment of this section, with full
knowledge of the executive action.already had and of the diplomatic situation, justified the President in the conclusion that
it was his duty, under section three, to adhere to the construction already insisted. upon as to the .extent of the dominion of
the United States, and to continue to act accordingly.

IN RE COOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

If this be so, the application calls upon the court, while
negotiations are pending, to decide whether the government
is right or wrong, and to review the action of the political
departments upon the question, contrary to the settled law in,
that regard. Foster v. _Neilson, 2 Pet. 253; Williams v,Sufolk
Ins. Cor 2any, 3 Sumner, 270; S. C.on certificate of division,
13 Pet. 415; Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1; Georgia v. Stanton,
6 Wall. 50; Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 202; -Nabob of
Carnatic v. East India Corjpany, I Ves. Jr. 371; S. C.-2 Ves."
Jr. 56; Barclay v. Russell, 3 Yes. Jr. 424; Penn v. Baltimore,
1 Yes. Sr. 444.
In this case, Her Britannic _Majesty's Attorney General of
Canada has presented, with the knowledge and approval of
the Imperial government of Great Britain, a suggestion on
behalf of the claimant. He represents no property interest in
the vessel, as is sometimes done by consuls, but only a public
political interest. We are not insensible to the- courtesy implied in the willingness thus manifested that this court should
proceed to a decision on the main question argued for the
petitioner; nor do we permit ourselves to doubt that under
such circumstances the decision would receive all the consideration that the utmost good faith would require; but it is very
clear that, presented as a political question merely, it would
not fall within our province to determine it. We allude to
this in passing, but not at all with the intention of indicating
that the suggestion itself diminishes the private rights of the
claimant in any degree.
We are not to be understood, however, as underrating the
weight of the argument that in a case involving private rights,
the court may be obliged, if those rights are dependent upon
the construction of acts of Congress or of a treaty, and the
case turns upon a question, public in its nature, which has not
been determined by the political departments in the form of a
law specifically settling it, or authorizing the executive to do
so, to render judgment, "since we have no more right to decline the jurisdiction which is given than to usurp that which
is not given."
But we need not go farther in this direction, as our decision

OCTOBER TER-M, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

rests upon-narrower grounds, and we have been led into these
6bservations because, where an application is made to stay the
*enforcement of a decree three years after its rendition, and
after the pendeucy of an appeal therefrom for the same length
of time, (an appeal being allowable, as we shall presently see,)
we do not- regard the court as constrained to intervene in this
way unless, perhaps, upon an irresistible case and adequate
rcuon shown for the delay; and particularly not where such
iatervention.involves tb6 definition of the line of demarcation,
between cobird~nate departments of the government and the
determination, of public questions, action in reference to which
is appropriately confided to other departments, than the judicial.
In what has been said, we have assumed that it appears
from the record, properly examinable by us, that the alleged
offence was committed more than a marine league from shore;
and we now come to consider whether this is the fact. And
in doing this, with the view of ascertaining Whether the claimant is entitled to be relieved of the payment of $7289.50, which
is the amount of the stipulation, the record must be treated as
in any other case of private rights.
As already seen, prohibition will not go after sentence unless
want of jurisdiction appears on the face of the proceedings.
But it is contended that the face of the proceedings in a case
like the present one embraces the evidence. We think, however, that there is a distinction on principle, and sustained by
authority, between what is open on prohibition applied for
before sentence and what afterwards. Prohibition stays what
is about to be done, but which ought not to be done without
it. Before judgment, if the court below persist in going on
when it should not, the court above can examine, not simply
the process and pleadings technically of record, but the facts
in evidence upon which action is being taken.
In Ex parte Christy, 3 jHow. 292, 308, which was an application for a writ of prohibition against the District Court of
Louisiana sitting as-a court in bankrupt6y, Mr. Justice "Story
said:, "So far as respects these allegations of facts, not so
found in the: proceedings of the District Court, we are not

-

IN RE COPER.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the present occasion at liberty to entertain any consideration thereof for the purpose of examination. or decision, as it
would be an exercise of original jurisdiction on the part of
this court not confided to us by law. The application for the
prohibition is made upon the ground that the District Court
has transcended its jurisdiction in entertaining those proceedings; and whether it has or not must depend, not upon the
facts stated dehors the record, but upon those stated in the
record upon which the District Court was called to act,.and by
which alone it could regulate its judgment." And this language was repeated and approved in Exoparte Eastan, 95 U. S.
68, where prohibition was asked against a District Court in
admiralty. These were cases where the application was before sentence, and they show that the court may consider the
evidence as well-as the other proceedings in the court sought
to be restrained. But after final judgment and the lapse of
the term, for the Superior Court to enter upon an examination
of the evidence upon a suggested defect in the jurisdiction,
that is, a defect not apparent upon the face of the record
proper, would be for it to rehear the case and direct the court
below not to carry its own judgment into effect, for defect of
power to try the particular issue rather than of jurisdiction
over the cause. What the court below could not then do, or
omit to do, the court above ought not ordinarily to undertake
to compel it to do or to omit.
In United States v. Peters,3 Dall 121, the Cassius, the vessel seized, was under commission by the French government,
and was libelled in the District Court of Pennsylvania on account of the seizure of a schooner belonging to libellants upon
the high seas, and the libel showed that the schooner had
been taken into Port de Paix, (in the dominions of the French
Republic,) which justified the presumption that she was carried there for legal adjudication, and it appeared from the
suggestion for the prohibition that such was the fact, and thattherefore the jurisdiction for the adjudication of the libel was
in a French and not in an American admiralty court. That
was an application before sentence and the court could look
into the evidence before the District Court if necessary,

506

OCTOBER- TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

though it appears tc us that the want of jurisdiction was evident on the face of the libel; and prohibition was accordingly
issued.
In Ex parte Phnix Insuranee Co., 118 U. S. 610, 626, it
was held that the District Court of the United States in admiralty has no jurisdiction of a petition by the owner of a steam
vessel for the trial of the question of his liability for damages
caused to buildings on land by fire alleged to have been negligently communicated to' them by the vessel through sparks
proceeding from her smokestack, and for the Vmitation of
such: liability, if existing, under §§ 4283 and 4284, Revised
Statutes. And Mr. Justice Blatchford, delivering the opinion
of the court, said, after citing Ex parte Easton, 95 U. S. 68,
and Ex parte Gordon, 104 U. S. 515:"'But in the present
case the District Court is called upon by the petition of the
owner of the vessel to first determine the question of any
liability, when it has no jurisdiction of the cause of action,
and then to determine whether the statute covers the case.
The- case is clearly one for a writ of prohibition, as the want
of jurisdiction appears on the face of the proceedings. United
States v. Peters, 3 Dall. 121."
The cases cited in the text-books, High on Extr. Rem., 606;
Shortt on Informations, 442, 448, sustain the general view
that the evidence is not to be resorted to after sentence. The
principle has no application to courts where the proceedings
do not show the matter in any formal way, and such are the
decisions in England in reference to county and mayor's
courts.
United States District Courts sitting in admiralty are courts
of superior jurisdiction and every intendment is made in favor
of their decrees, so that where it appears that the court has
jurisdiction of the subject matter, and that the defendant was
duly served with process or voluntarily appeared and made
defence, the decree is not open to attack collaterally. Miller
v. United States, 11 Wall. 268; McCormick v. Sullivant, 10
Wheat. 192; Des _foines .ANav. Company v. Homestead Company, 123 U. S.552; Cuddy, Petitioner,131 U. S.280.
By section 750, Revised Statutes, it is provided: "In equity

IN RE COOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

and admiralty causes only the process, pleadings and decree,
and such orders and memorandums as may be necessary to
show the jurisdiction of the court and regularity of the proceedings, shall te entered upon the final record."
Section 698 is as follows:
"Upon the appeal of any cause in equity, or of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, or of prize or no prize, a transcript
of the record, as directed by law to be made, and copies of the
proofs, and of such entries and papebrs on file as may be necessary on the hearing of the appeal, shall be transmitted to the
Supreme Court; P'ovided,That either the court below or the
Supreme Court may order any original document or other evidence to be sent up, in addition to the copy of the record, or
in lieu of a copy of a part thereof."
In this section the distinction is recognized between that
which constitutes the final record and that which may be
made part of the record for the purposes of appeal. On
appeal all questions properly preserved are open to determination, while on prohibition the inquiry is confined to the
matter of jurisdiction, so that it seems to follow that, unless
under very extraordinary circumstances, the record proper
should only be looked into in the latter class of cases.
If the record thus made constitutes the face of the proceedings here, the alleged want of jurisdiction does not appear
therefrom.
The libel alleges that the seizure was made "within the
limits of Alaska Territory and in the waters thereof, and
within the civil and judicial District of Alaska, to wit, within
the waters of that portion of Behring Sea belonging to the
United States and saia district, on waters navigable from the
sea by vessels of ten or more tons burden." As it is admitted
that the United States lawfully exercises jurisdiction to thQ
extent of three miles from shore over the waters of Behring
Sea, the allegation of seizure within the jurisdiction is s Incient. The libel further avers that the vessel and her captain,
officers and crew, "were then and there found engaged in
killing fur seals within the limits of Alaska Territory, and in
the said waters thereof, in violation of section 1956 of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Revised Statutes of the United States."

Of coarse, these are

the" waters over which the United States lawfully exercises
'jurisdiction, and upon the face of the libel the court had jurisdiction of the forfeiture and of the offence. Th master raised
no question of jurisdiction in filing his claim, and the demurrer
having been overruled, the answer denied that the seizure was
made within the waters described or that the vessel, captain,
officers or crew were found engaged in killing fur seal within
the limits of Alaska Territory or in the waters thereof, or that
they were then and there violating any law of the United
States. Trial having been had the court found that "on the
9th day of July, 1887, and theretofote, the master and crew
of the defendant vessel were engaged in killing and did kill
fur seals in that portion of Behring Sea ceded by Russia to
the United States by the treaty of March, 1867, and within
the waters of Alaska, in violation of section 1956 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States." This was a finding
of the commission of the offence within the jurisdiction stated
in ilhe'libel.
As already seen, the first section of the act of May 17, 1884.,
provided, "that the territory ceded to the United States by
Russia by .the treaty of March thirtieth, eighteen hundred and
sixty-seven, and known as Alaska," should constitute a civil
and judicial district. And by section 1954 of the Revised
Statiftes, the laws of the United States relating to customs, commerce and navigation were extended "to and over
all the main-land, islands and waters of the territory ceded to
the United States by the Emperor of Russia by treaty concluded at Washington on the thirtieth day of March, anno
Domini eighteen hundred and sixty-seven."
The finding
refers similarly to that portion of Behring Sea ceded by
Russia, and states that the killing was "within the waters of
Alaska." The second and third findings were that the vessel,
her furniture, apparel, tackle, cargo and 477 fur-seal skins,
were ,seized in said waters, that is to say, in the waters of
Alaska, by the commanding officer of the United States
revenue-cutter Rush, then and there engaged in the revenue
marine service of the United States, who was duly commis-

IN RE COOPEV.

509-

Opinion of the Court.

sioned by the President of the United States, and made such
seizure under the direction and by the authority of the
Treasury Department.
Upon the face of the hbel and findings, if the jurisdiction
did not extend beyond three miles from the shore, the legal
inference is that the offence and seizure were within that limit.
Hfudswor v. Guestier,6 Cranch, 281; The Rio Grainde,23 Wall.
458. The court had power to inquire into the fact upon which
jurisdiction depended and its maintenance of jurisdiction involved the conclusion necessary to sustain it.
If, therefore, the findings of fact are properly part of the
face of the proceedings, the want of jurisdiction not only does
not appear, but the contrary. The petitioner asked no finding of fact by the court as to the exact locality, but after the
findings and conclusion were made and filed, moved in arrest,
assigning, among other grounds, "that from the evidence produced on the part of the United States it appears that this
court has no jurisdiction over the subject matter of this cause."
But this motion was not equivalent to a plea in abatement,
nor to a declinatory allegation in the nature of a plea to the
jurisdiction, nor to a motion for a rehearing.. By the demurrer
and answer the defendant had submitted to the jurisdiction,
and whatever might be his rights upon appeal, the interposition of this motion did not make that a part of the face of the
proceedings, which would not have been so without it.
Passing from this, however, what is the attitude of the case
as to the findings, Is this court bound by them or not,? If
so, no reference to the evidence would bo admissible.
The latter part of section '7 of the act of May 17, 1884, 23
-Stat. 24, 26, is as follows: "Writs of error in criminal cases
shall issue to the said District Court from the United, States
Circuit Court for the District of Oregofi in the cases provided
in chapter 6ne hundred and seventy-six of the laws of eighte,
hundred and seventy-nine; and the jurisdiction thereby/cun-.
ferred upon' Circuit Courts is hereby given to the Qircuit
Court of Oregon. And the final judgments or decrees of
said Circuit and District Court may be reviewed by .he
Supreme Court of the United States as in other cases." We

OCTOBER TERMf, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

are of opinion that the word Circuit as here used refers to the
Circuit Court of Oregon, and, for the purposes of the matter
in hand, the clause may be read: "And the final judgments
or decrees of said District Court of Alaska may be reviewed
by the Supreme Court of the United States as in other cases."
Under sections 690, 691, 692, 695 and 699, of the Revised
Statutes, this court has appellate jurisdiction to reexamine the
final judgments of any Circuit Court, or of any District Court
acting as a Circuit Court, in civil actions, where the matter in
dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum or value of $5000;
all final decrees of any Circuit Court, or of any District Court
acting as a Circuit Court, iu cases of equity and of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, within the same limit of amount
involved; all final decrees of any District Court in prize
causes; all final judgments at law and final decrees in equity
of any Circuit Court or of any District Court acting as a Circuit Court, in any case touching patent rights or copyrights;
in any civil action brought by the United States for the enforcement of any revenue law thereof; in actions against
revenue officers; in cases brought on account of deprivation
of rights of citizens or of rights under the Constitution; and
in suits for injuries by conspirators against civil rights. Under
section 701 this court may affirm, modify or reverse any judgment, decree or order of a Circuit Court, or District Court acting as a Circuit Court, or of a District Court in prize causes,
lawfully brought before it for review, or may direct such
judgment, decree or order to be rendered, or such further proceedings to be had by the inferior court as the justice of the
case may require. And it is argued that the words "as in
other cases," in section , of the act of 1884: cain mean nothing
else than other cases of appeals from District Courts and District Courts acting as Circuit Courts; and that the right of
appeal from the decrees of District Courts is confined to prize
causes under section 695.
It is said that if there could be such a thing as an appeal
from the District Court of Alaska in an ordinary admiralty
case direct to this court, this court would be obliged to try the
case de novo; that the District Court of Alaska, sitting as an

IN RE COOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

admiralty court, would supply and take the place of a Circuit
Court in admiralty sitting in appeal, although all the statutes
authorizing District Courts to exercise the functions of Circuit
Courts expressly exclude the power of appeal; that the only.
foundation of a right of appeal from the Alaska court, based
upon this right to exercise the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court,
is section 692 of the Revised Statutes, and that only extends
to the final decrees of such District Court when exercising the
jurisdiction of a Circuit Court, while the exercise of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction by the District Court for Alaska
was, by the act creating it and the Revised Statutes, the exercise of purely District Court -jurisdiction as such; nor could
the Alaska court be supposed to have acted in the exercise of
both jurisdictions, as the only admiralty and maritime jurisdiction which belongs to the Circuit Courts is appellate.
But the District Court of Alaska is not alone a District
Court of the United States, and a District Court exercising
Circuit Court powers; it is also a court of general law and
equity jurisdiction. If the contention of petitioner were correct, any power of review in this court over judgments and
decrees of the Alaska court in law and equity, except when
entered as a Circuit Court, would be excluded. We do not
think it was the intention of Congress to give such finality to
its judgments and decrees.
It seems to us that the words "as in other cases" mean, as
in similar cases from other courts; and we concur in the construction contended for on the part of the respondent, that
the meaning of the provision is, that this court mnay review
the final judgments or deqrees of the District Cou't of Alaska
as in cases of the same kind from other courts.
The act of February 16, 1875, (18 Stat. 315,) provides that
Circuit Courts of the United States in deciding causes of
admiralty or maritime jurisdiction on the instance side of the
court, shall find the facts and the conclusions of law upon
which it renders its judgments or decrees, and shall state the
facts and conclusions of law separately. And the review of
the judgments or decrees entered upon such findings, by this
court, upon appeal, is "limited to a determination of the ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the

VCouxt

tions of law arising upon the record, and to such rulings of
the Circuit Court, excepted to at the time, as may be presented by a bill of exceptions prepared as in. actions at law."
In 'Durousseaw v. Unitedk States, 6 Cranch, 307, 315, the
effect of section ten of the Judiciary Act of 1789, (1 Stat. 73,
77,) was under considerafion. The section provided "that the
District Court in Kentucky District" should, in addition to
the ordinary jurisdiction of a District Court, "have jurisdiction
of all other causes, except of appeals and writs of-error hereinafter made cognizable in a Circuit Court, and shall proceed
therein in the same manner as a Circuit Court, and, writs
of error and appeals shall lie from decisions therein to the
Supreme Court in the same causes, as from a Circuit Court to
the Supreme Court, and under the same regulations."
It was argued that under this provision the writs of error
and appeals provided were intended to lie only from cases
in. which the District Court acted as a Circuit Court. Mr.
Chief Justice Marshall, delivering the opinion of the court,
said:
"It would be difficult to conceive an intention in the legislature to discriminate -between judgments rendered by the
District Court of Kentucky, while exercising the powers of a
District Court, and those rendered by the same court, while
exercising circuit powers, when it is demonstrated that the
legislature makes-no distinction in the cases from their nature
and character. Causes of which the District Courts have exclusive original jurisdiction are carried into the Circuit Courts,
and then become the objects of the appellate jurisdiction of
this court. It would be strange if, in a case where the
powers of the two courts are united in one court, from whose
judgments an appeal lies, causes, of which the District Courts
have exblusive original jurisdiction, should be excepted from
the operation of the appellate power. It would require plain
words to establish this construction.
"The plain meaning of these words is, that wherever the
District Court decides a cause which, if decided in a Circuit
Court, either in an original suit, or on an appeal, would be
subject to a writ of error from the Supreme Court, the judg-

THE SYLVIA HANDY.
"Statement of the Case.

ment of the District Court shall, in like manner, be subject to
a writ of error."
In our view, that decision is in point and is decisive. We
hold that an appeal lay to this court from the decree in question, and, further, that the act of 1875 applies, and that, the
District Court having found -the facts, we should be limited,
on appeal, in the consideration of the case, to the questions of
law presented on the record.
Upon the face of the libel, the facts found and the final
decree, the 'District Court clearly had jurisdiction. This petitioner had a remedy by appeal from that deciee, which was
inefficacious because of his neglect to have included in those
findings the fact of the exact locality of the offence and seizure.
Such being the case, the writ of prohibition prayed for should
not issue, even if, under any, circumstances, the court could
consider the evidence taken below in determining whether a
prohibition should issue after sentence.
Rule discharged andproibiionr denied.
MR. JuSTICE FIELD

dissented.

THE SYLVIA HANDY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 58. Argued November 11, 1891.-Decided February 29,1892.

As the bill of exceptions does not purport to contain all the evidence, and
as no request was made for a finding of fact as to the actual fact of the
killing of the seals and the seizure of the vessel, the rulings in Exparte
Cooper, ante, 472, are decisive of this case, and it is followed.

Tim court stated-the case as follows:
This was a libel filed in the District Court of the United
States in and for the District of Alaska, September 15, 1887,
vOL. cxLnI-33

