HORNER v. UNITED STATES.

No. 1.

Opinion of the Court.

HORNER v. UNITED STATES. No. 1.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 1051. Argued January 13, 14,1892. -Decided February 29,1892.

Under § 3894 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the act of September
19, 1890, c. 908, (26 Stat. 465,) in regard to the carriage of lottery
matter in the mail, it is an offence to cause a lottery circular, mailed at
the city of New York, and addressed there to a person in Illinois, to be
delivered to such person in Illinois, by mail, and an indictment for so
doing is triable in Illinois.
The statute is constitutional, under the decision in Ex parte Rapier, ante,
110.
'Where a person is committed in one district, by a United States commissioner, for trial in another, the question of his identity cannot be reviewed on habeas eoipus.

THIS was an appeal from a judgment of the Circuit Court,
dismissing a writ of abeas corpus. The case is stated in the
opinion.
AMr. A fred Taylor for appellant. Mr.FrederickS. Parker
and Xr. lernan Aaron were with him on the brief.
-Mr. Solicitor General for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE
court.

BLATHRFORD

delivered the opinion of the

On the 13th of January, 1891, an indictment was found by
a grand jury of the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Illinois, against Edward H. Horner,
charging that, on December 28, 1890, he unlawfully and
knowingly deposited and caused to be deposited, in the post
office -at New York, in the State of New York, "a certain
circular conitaining a list of prizes awarded at the drawing of
a lottery, which said circular was, then and there numbered
538, and purported to be issued from the banking-house of-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
i
Opinion o the Court.

E. H. Horner, at 88 Wall street, and was dated at New York,
December 27, A.D. 1S90, and was then and there addressed
to Mrs. M. Schuchman, 624 Illinois St., Belleville, Ill., in said
district, and was then and there carried by mail for delivery to
said-Mrs. l. Schuchman, at 624 Illinois street, in Belleville,
Illinois, in said district, according to the said direction thereon."
There was a 2d count, charging Horner with having, on
December 30, 1890, unlawfully. and knowingly deposited, and
caused to be deposited, in the post office at New York, in the
State of New York, a certain circular containing lists of prizes
awarded at the drawings of certain specified lotteries, "which
said circular was then and there enclosed in a sealed envelope,
duly stamped with postage stamps for the amount of postage
required thereon by law, and was then and there addressed,
upon the outside of said envelope, to Mrs. M. Schuchman,
624 Illinois St.,. Belleville, Illinois, in said district, and was
then and there, after being so deposited in the post office as
aforesaid, carried by mail for delivery to said Mrs. M. Schuchman, at 624 Illinois street, in Belleville, Illinois, in said district,
according-to the direction thereon."
A 3d count charged that Horner, on December 28, 1890,
unlawfully and knowingly deposited, and caused to be deposited, in the post office at New York, in the State of New
York, a certain circular containing a list of prizes awarded at
the drawing'of a specified lottery, "which said circular was
then and there addressed to Mrs. M. Scbuchman, 624 Illinois
St.,. Belleville, Ill., in said district, and was then and there
barried by mail for delivery to said Mrs. M. Schuchman, 624
Illinois street, in the State of Illinois, and in said district,
according to the direction on said circular when it was so
deposited in the post office at New York by said Edward H.
Horner, as aforesaid."
A 4th count charged that .Horner,on December 29, 1890,
unlawfully and knowingly.deposited, and caused to be deposited, in the post office at New York, in the State of New York,
"a certain- printed publication having a caption 6f the tenor
following, viz., ' banking-hous'e of.E. H. Horner, No. 88 Wall
street,' bearing date at New York on the 27th day of Decem-

HOrNER v. UNITED STATES.

No. 1.

Opinion of the Court.

her, A.D. 1890, and numbered 538, containing a list.of prizes
awarded dt the drawing of a lottery; which said publication
was then and there enclosed in a sealed envelope, duly stamped
with postage stamps, and was addressed to Mrs. Al. Schuchman,624 Illinois St., Belleville, Ill., in said district, and was then
and there carried by mail, after being so deposited as aforesaid, for delivery to Mrs. M. Schuchman, 624 Illinois street,
Belleville, Illinois, in said district, according to said direction
thereon."
A 5th count charged that Horner, on the 31st of December,
1890, within said Southern District of Illinois, unlawfully and
knowingly, did "cause to be delivered by mail to Mrs. M.
Schuchman, 624 Illinois St., at Belleville, in the State of Illinois, and in said district, a certain circular containing a list of
prizes awarded at the drawing of a lottery in two-and-a-half
per cent city of Antwerp bonds of 1887, at Antwerp, on the
10th day of November; A.D. 1890 which said circular was
then and there numbered 538, and had a caption printed
thereon, in substance, as follows, viz., ' banking-house of E. EH.
Horner, No. 88 Wall street,' and was dated on the 27th day
of December, A.D. 1890; which said circular he, the said
Edward I. Horner, theretdfore, to wit, on the 29th day of
December, A.D. 1890, did knowingly deposit, and cause to
be deposited, in the post office at New York, in the State of
New York, addressed to said Mrs. M. Schuchman, at 624 Illinois St., in Belleville, in, the State of Illinois, aild which said
circular was then and there carried by mail for delivery-to
said Mrs. M. Schfiohman, 624 Illinois street, at Belleville, in the
State of Illinois, according to said direction so upon said circular, as aforesaid."
That indictment was founded on § 3894 of the Revised
Statutes of the United-States, as amended by the act of September 19, 1890, c. 908, 26 Stat. 465, which -reads as follows:
"VNP letter, postal card or circular concerning anylottery, socalled gift concert, or other similar enterprise offering prizes
dependent upon lot or chancu, or- concerning schemes devised
for the purpose of obtaining money or property under false
pretences, and no list of the drawings at any lottery or similar
voi.. exi.m-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

scheme, and no lottery ticket or part thereof, and no check,
draft, bill, money, postal note or money order for th purchase
of any ticket, tickets or part thereof, or of any share or any
chance in any such lottery or gift enterprise, shall be carried
in the mail or delivered at or through any post office or branch
thereof, or by any letter carrier; nor shall any newspaper,
circular, pamphlet or publication of any kind containing any
advertisement of any lottery or gift enterprise of any kind
offering prizes dependent upon lot or chance, or containing any
list of prizes awarded at the drawings of any such lottery or
gift enterprise, whether said list is of any part or of all of the
drawing, le carried in the mail or delivered by any postmaster
or letter carrier. Any person who shall knowingly deposit or
cause to be deposited, or who shall knowingly send or cause to
be sent, anything to be conveyed or delivered by mail in violation of this section, or who shall knowingly cause to be delivered by mail anything herein forbidden to be carried by mail,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on cqnviction
shall be punished by a-fine of not more than five hundred dollars or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by both
such fine and imprisonment for each offence. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this section may be proceeded against by information or indictment and tried and
punished, either in the district at which the unlawful publication was mailed or to which it is carried by mail for delivery
according to the direction thereon, or at which it is caused to
be delivered by mail to the person to whom it is addressed."
On the 15th of January, 1891, a post office inspector made
a/complaint on oath before John A. Shields, a United States
commissioner for the Southern District of leW York, founded
.on the said indictment, and on a bench warrant issued thereon'
by the judge of the District Court of the United States for
the Southdrn District of Illinois, asking for the arrest of
Horner. Commissioner Shields thereupon, on the same day,
issued a warrant to the marshal of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, for the arrest of Horner and
the ,bringing of him before the said commissioner. Homer
was arrested and brought before the commissioner. He de-

HORN'ER v. UNITED STATES.

No. 1.

Opinion of the Court.

manded an examination respQcting the charge, and in default
of $5000 bail, was committed to the custody of the marshal,
to be thereafter brought up for examination. The examination took place before the commissioner, and was attended
by counsel for the government and for Hlorner, with the
result, that the commissioner committed him to the custody of
the marshal to await a warrant for his removal by the District
Judge of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, the commissioner certifying. that it appeared to him,
from the testimony offered, that Horner was the person
charged in the warrant, and that there was probable cause
for believing him guilty of the offence charged, and that he
was thereby committed for trial at the Southern District of
Illinois.
The District Judge of the United States for the Southern
District of New York issued a warrant to the marshal for
that district, to remove Horner to the Southern District of
Illinois, "to be tried in said district upon such. counts in the
indictment now pending in said district as the said Edward
H. Horner can be legally tried upon." In issuing that warrant, the District Judge delivered an opinion, (44 Fed. iRep.
677,) basing his decision upon the ground that the fifth count
of the indictment charged an offence which was not and
could not be, completed without the delivery of the matter
by mail to the person to, whom it was addressed; that such
offence consisted, under the third clause of the statute, in
knowingly causing the prohibited matter to be delivered by
mail; that, under the fifth count, although the voluntary act
began in New York, by deposit in the mail, the offence of
causing the delivery by mail could not be consummated except by delivery to the person and at the place intended;
that, in whatever way Horner might have caused such delivery to be made, either by deposit in the mail at New York or
elsewhere, and wherever his voluntary act might have begun,
the offence under the third clause of the statute, ehargdd in
the fifth count of the'indictment, was not committed until the
delivery by -mail was made; that, when such delivery was
made; the offence was committed, and was committed at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

place where the delivery was made, in accordance with the
intent of Horner and by his procurement, although it might
perhaps also be deemed to have been committed at the place
of deposit; and that the offence charged in the fifth count
was, therefore, triable in Illinois, under the Constitution of
the United States as well as § 731 and § 3894 of the Revised
Statutes, as amended; citing 151 re Palliser,136 U. S. 257.
Section 731 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
reads as follows: "When any offence against the United
States is begun in one judicial circuit and completed in another, it shall be deemed to have been committed in either,
and may be dealt with, inquired of, tried, determined, and
punished in either district, in the same manner as if it had
been actually and wholly committed therein." The words
"judicial circuit" in that section are probably printed by a
clerical error for "judicial district," as, in § 30 of the act of
March 2, 1867, c. 16, 14 Stat. 484, from which § 731 is taken,
the words are "judicial district."
On the same day on which the warrant of removal was
issued, Homner presented a petition to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, setting
forth, in substance, the foregoing facts, and praying for a
writ of habeas corpus to the marshal and for a writ of certiorari to the commissioner. The writs were issued, Horner was
-brought before the Circuit Court, and'the commissioner made
a return to the writ of certiorari. The Circuit Court, held by
Judge Lacombe, dismissed the writ of habeas corpus and
remanded Homer to the custody of the marshal; and afterwards, on its order, he was released on $2500 bail, pending
an appeal by him to this court, which appeal was duly allowed,
and perfected, and the record filed in this court, prior to the
passage of the Circuit Courts of Appeals actof March 3, 1891,
9. 517, 26 Stat. 826. Therefore, no question arises as to the
jurisdiction of the appeal by -this court.
,The appellant has filed 23 assignments of error, 13 of which
attack the sufficiency of the counts of the indictmendt, 6 of
them allege that the warrant' of. removal, if executed, will.
deprive Horner of the right secured -to him by article 3, § 2,

HORNER v. UNITED STATES.

No. 1.

Opinion of the Court.

of the Constitution of the United States, and the 6th Amendment to said Constitution, to be tried in the State and district
wherein the crime was committed; one of them alleges that
the warrant of removal is so indefinite and uncertain as not
to apprise Homer of the nature of his offence, and so violates
the 6th Amendment to the Constitution; one of them alleges
that the Horner who is in custody is not the person charged
in the indictment; and the remaining 2 are of a general
.character, assigning no special ground of error.
The point is taken for Horner that § 3894 of the Revised
Statutes, as amended by the act of September 19, 1890, is
unconstitutional and void, as being in violation of the 1st
Amendment to the Constitution,. which provides that "Congress shall make no law . . . abridging the freedom of
speech or of the press." But this question was disposed of by
the decision of this court recently made in .Eo parte Rapiet,
ante, 110.
It is further urged, that Horner is held for trial in the
Southern District of Illinois, for acts committed in the South
ern District of New York. But we agree with the District.
Judge in his opinion that, whatever may be said of the first,
4 counts of the indictment, the 5th count is good, for the
reasons stated by him. That count distinctly alleges that
Horner unlawfully and knowingly caused to be delivered by
mail, to Mrs. Schuchman, at Belleville, in the State of Illinois,
and in the Southern District of Illinois, a certain circular containing a list of prizes awarded at the drawing of the lottery
specified in that count. The allegation of the count, that such
circular had been knowingly deposited, and 6aused to be deposited, by Horner, in the post office at New York, addressed
to Mrs. Schuchman at Belleville, Illinois, and that such circular was then and there carried by mail for delivery to her at
said Belleville, according to the direction so upon it, is inserted
merely to show how the circular canle to be in the mail; but
the gravamen of the charge is, that Homer unlawfully and
knowingly caused the circular to be delivered by mail to Mrs.
Schuchman, at Belleville, Illinois, in the Southern District of
Illinois.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

It is made a distinct offence in § 3894, as amended,'knowingly to cause -to be delivered by mail anything forbidden by
the statute to be carried by mail; and the same section declares, that no circular concerning any lottery or other similar enterprise offering prizes dependent upon lot or chance,
and no list of the drawings at any lottery or other similar
scheme, shall be carried in the mail. The last clause of § 3894,
as amended, provides that any offender may be indicted, tried
and punished either in the district at which the unlawful publication was mailed, or to which it is carried by mail for
delivery according to the direction thereon, or at which it is
caused to be delivered by mail to the person to whom it is
addressed. The distinct and separate crime charged in the
5th count of the indictment was committed in the Southern
District of Illinois, and is triable there. This is fully shown
by the case of In re Palliser,136 U. S. 257.
The District Judge, in exercising his- jurisdiction, under
§ 1014 of the Revised Statutes, to issue a warrant for the
removal of Horner to the Southern District of Illinois, had a
right to determine whether or not the offence was within the
jurisdiction of the District Court of the United States for that
district, and that determination was reviewable by habeas cor_ps. Callanv. Wilson, 127 U. S: 540.
Objection is also made to the language of the warrant of
removal, in that it directs the marshal to remove Horner to
the Southern District of Illinois, "to be tried in said district
upon such counts in the indictment now pending in said
district as the said Edward I. Horner can be legally tried
upon." It is urged that, notwithstanding this language, the
warrant puts Homer upon trial in the Southern District of
Illinois upon the whole indictment, and that it is void for
indefiniteness, and does not inform Horner of the nature and
cause of the accusation against him.
We do not think there is any force in either of these objections. If Homer should be put upon trial in Illinois upon all
the counts of the indictment, he can demur to any of them,
and thus have it determined which of the counts he shall
meet. The 5th count is sufficiently specific, and the deter-

LAWRENCE v. NELSON.
Syllabus.

mination in the warrant of removal is only that there is .at
least one count of the indictment upon which Horner may be
tried in Illinois. That is quite sufficient.
The question of the identity of Horner was a question of
fact,' which the United States commissioner had full jurisdiction to decide, for the purpose of removal; and his decision
will not be reviewed on habeas corpus. I
'e Cortes, 136
U. S. 330; Stevens v. Fu"ller, 136 U. S. 468.
The fact that One of the witnesses before the commissioner
stated "that the person now in custody is Edward H. Horner,
of the city of New York," serves only to confirm his identity
with the person charged in the indictment, becaise it is
alleged therein, and particularly in t! e 5th count, that the
circular was deposited in the post office at New York, and
purported to come from the banking-house of Horner in that
city.
The order of the Circuit Court, dismissing the writ of
habeas coipus and remanding the accused, is
Aflrmed.

LAWRENCE v. NkLSON.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 1067. Submitted November 24, 191.- Decided February 29, 1892.
An administrator, appointed in one State, who, after appearing and iaving
judgment rendered against him as such in a suit in equity brought in
another State, the laws of which authorize a foreign administrator to
sue there, files a bill of review in the same court to reverse the decree,
for the reason that, not being an administrator appointed by the courts
of that State, he could not be sued there, is bound by the original judgment against him, if his bill of review is dismissed for want of equity.
The aeneral equity jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States to
administer, as between citizens of different States, the assets of a deceased
person within it- jurisdiction cannot be defeated or impaired by laws of
a State undertaking to give exclusive jurisdiction to its own courts.

