WINONA & ST. PETER RAILROAD v. PLAINVIEW.

371

Statement of the Case.

WINONA AND

ST. PETER RAILROAD COMPANY
v. PLAINVIEW.
SAME v. ELGIN.

EEROER TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MnlqNESOTA.
Fos. 171, 172. Argued January 27, 28,1892.-

Decided February 29,1892.

In this case, which was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of a State,
it was contended that that court did notgive to a judgment of a Cir~uit
Court of the United States such faith and credit as it was entitled to
under the Constitution and laws of the United States; and that it disregarded the provision of the Constitution of the United States that no
State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of a contract. Held;
that the first contention was incorrect; that the question as to the impairment of the obligation of a contract was raised for the first time in
this court, and was not accurate in fact; and that the writ of error must
be dismissed.

By an act of the legislature of the State of Minnesota, approved farch 5, 1877, (General Laws of Minnesota of 1877,
c. 106,) it was enacted, by sections 4, 5, 6 and 7 thereof, as
is printed in the margin.
I Src. 4. Whenever any such railroad company, specified in the first section of this act, shall desire aid in the construction of its railroad from any
county, town, city or village specified in said first section, it shall make
and deliver to- the county auditor of such county, the town clerk of such
town or the clerk of such incorporated city or village, as the case may be,
a definite proposition in writing, signed by the president and secretary of
said railroad company, and sealed with its seal, which proposition shall
contain a statement of the amount of bonds desired, the time when payable,
and whether payable before maturity at the option of such municipality,
the rate of interest which they shall bear, and such proposition shall contain a statement specifying when said bonds are to be delivered with reference to the time of the entire or partial construction of said railroad, and
may contain a stafement that such bonds may be deposited in escrow prior
to the delivery to the railroad company; and such proposition shall contain
a statement that the said railroad company will, in consideration of said
bonds, at the election 6f such municipality, issue to the municipality from

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Purpotting to proceed under sections 4 and 7 of that act, the
Plainview Railroad Company, a Mrinnesoia corporation, on the
which it is to receive the same, such number of the shares of its capital
stock as will at par value of such stock correspond with the principal sum
of such bonds. In case such bonds are proposed to be deposited in escrow
as aforesaid, the proposition shall also state that the certificate of the stock
to be exchanged therefor shall be placed with the same depository at the
same time, and in that case the proposition shall set forth the full name
and residence of the trustee or trustees, who shall be the custodian of the
stock of said company and of the bonds of such city, village, town or
county; the auditor or clerk with whom any such proposition shall be filed
shall immediately endorse therbon the date of it6 receipt by him, and transcribe the same into the record book of the county, town, city or village, as
the case may be, of which he is such clerk.
SEC. 5. The mode of arriving at such mutual agreement as is hereinbefore
specified, shall be as follows:
First-Upon receiving .such proposition, the county auditor of such
county, the town clerk of such town, or the clerk of such incorporated city
or village, as the case may be, shall immediately publish a notice of an election to be held by the legal voters of 'such county, town incorporated city
or village, at the usual place or places of holding elections therein, and at
such time as such clerk may designate, not less than ten (10) days.or more
than twdnty (20) days from the date of such notices, which notice shall
contain a substantial statement of the proposition made by said railroad
company for the issue of the bonds of such municipality, and shall notify
the legal voters thereof to deposit a ballot upon which shall be written or
printed the words, "for the railroad proposition," or the words, "against
the railroad proposition." And such notice shall be posted in three (3) public places in each election precinct in the district in which aid is desired, at
least seven (7) days before the day of such election, and shall also be published at least twice before such election in one newspaper in such city,
village or town, if any is published therein, and if the aid is asked of a
county, in one newspaper in each village and city in such county in which a
newspaper is published, and if there is no newspaper published in such city,
village, town or county, then such notice shall be so published in a newspaper published at the nearest place thereto In which one, is published.

Fourth-If
a majority of the legal voters who shall vote upon the question at any election to be. held in any such county, town, city or village, in
,pursuance of the provisions of this act, shall, as indicated by the official
returns of any such election, vote" for the railroad proposition," then such
mutual agreement for the issue of bonds by such municipality and of stock
by such railroad .company, as provided in'this act, shall be deemed and considered to have been'arrived at and' perfected, and thereupon such bonds

WINONA & ST. PETER RAILROAD v. PLAINVIEW.

373

Statement of the Case.

81st of January, 1878, delivered to the town clerk of the towi,
of Plainview a proposition in writing, signed by the president
and stock shall be issued and delivered by the proper officer in conformity
with the true intent of such proposition and with the provisions of this act.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

And provided further, That the board of county commissioners of an
such county, or the board of supervisors of any such town, or the common
council of any such village or city, may, in case it shall deem it for the
interest of such county, town, village or city, to do. so, waive the issuance
by such railroad cbmpany of any such stock to such county, town, village
or city.
Sic. 6. No bonds shall be delivered to the company under such proposition until the road, branch or extension thereof for the construction of
which the aid has been granted shall have been completed ready for the
passage of cars continuot sly from one terminus through or to the district
granting the aid or to the nearest point in its line to such district, or from
such terminus to such point as the company in its proposition shall have
proposed to construct said road where the line of the road shall not lie
through the district.
*

*

*

*

*

,*

*

SEc. 7. Another mode of arriving at such mutual agreement shall be as
follows:
First - Within three (3) months after the filing of any such proposition
as is specified in the fourth (4th) section of this act with any county audi-

tor, town clerk or clerk of any city or village, as the case may be, the said
railroad company shall cause notice to be given as prescribed in the fifth
(5th) section of this act, in three (3) public places in each election precinct
in the district in which aid is desired, stating that after a day named in said
notice, which shall be at least five (5) days after its date, a petition to the
proper authorities of such county, town, city or village will be presented to
the resident taxpayers of such county, town, city or village for theiF signatures, asking such authorities to agree to such proposition, and such
.petition shall be appended to a substantial copy of such proposition.
Second - If, within four months after the filing of such proposition with
any such county auditor, town clerk, or clerk of any city or village, as the
case may be, the said railroad company shall deliver to such clerk a substantial copy or copies of such proposition, so filed, with such petition to
the proper authorities of such county, town, city or village, asking such
authorities to agree to such proposition appended thereto, bearing the signatures of a majority of the persons residing in such county, town, city or
village, who were assessed for taxes upon real or personal estate, in such
county, town, city or village, as the case may be, as shown by the last assessment roll of the district of which aid is desired, which signatures shall be
verified by the affidavit of some person witnessing such signatures; then

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

and secretary of the company, containing the statements and
specifications required by section 4 of the act, and stating that
the amount of the bonds of the town desired by the company
was $50,000. The town clerk endorsed on the proposition the
date of filing, and transcribed the proposition in his records
on March 30, 1878. On the 31st of January, 1878, the company posted in three public places in the town a notice that,
after February 6, 1878, a petition to the supervisors of the
town, appended to a copy of said proposition, would be presented to the resident taxpayers of the town, asking the
supervisors to agree to the proposition. The notice and the
proposition were published in a newspaper printed and published in the town.
On the 30th of iarch, 1878, within three months after the
filing of the proposition with the town clerk, the company
delivered to him four petitions, in the form required by section
7 of the act, addressed to the town board of supervisors, stating that the petitioners, being residents of tile town and
assessed for taxes upon real or personal estate therein, as
shown by its last assessment roll, asked the supervisors, as the
proper authorities of the town, to agree to the proposition of
the company to which the petition was appended. The petitions bore the signatures of a majority of the persons residing
in the town who were assessed for taxes on real or personal
estate therein, as shown by its then latest assessment roll, and
the signatures were verified by the affidavits of the persons
witnessing such signatures; but the petitions were not signed
by a majority of the electors or legal voters of the town.
Those petitions were the only ones ever made asking the
authorities of the town to agree to the proposition of the company, and they and section 7 of the act constituted the only
authority had or claimed for the issue of the bonds hereinafter mentioned. No election was held in the town to authorsuch mutual agreement for the issue of bonds by such municipality and of
stock by such railroad company shall be deemed and considered to have
been arrived at and perfected, and thereupon such bonds and stock shall
be issued tud delivered in conformity with the true intent and meaning of
such prop sition, and with the prdvisions of this act.

WIKNONA & ST. PETER RAILROAD v. PLAINVIEW.

375

Statement of the Case.

ize its supervisors to agree to the proposition or to the issue
of any such bonds.
On the 30th of March, 1878, the board of supervisors of the
town adopted and placed on file in the office of the town clerk
resolutions which recited the proposition of the company, the
posting of the notices and the presenting of ihe petitions, with
signatures and affidavits, from which it appeared that a majority of the *resident taxpayers of the town, assessed for taxes
upon real or personal estate therein, as shown by its last assessment roll, had signed the petitions, and that the construction
of the railroad by the company, as set forth in its proposition,
would promote the general prosperity and welfare of the taxpayers of the town. The resolutions were, that the proposition of the company was accepted, so far as related to the
issue of bonds; that bonds of the town to the amount of
$50,000, with interest coupons attached and payable as requested in the proposition, be issued to the company as soon
as it should have its railroad completed, with the cars running
thereon; and that the issue of stock to the town by the company, in consideration of the bonds, was waived.
The company constructed its railroad, had the cars running
thereon, and performed what was stated in the proposition,
except that it never issued to the town any stock of the
company.
Before any bonds of the town were issued to the company,
one George W. Harrington, a resident citizen and taxpayer
of the town, brought a suit in the District Court for Wabasha
County, in which county the town is situated, against the
town and its officers and the railroad company, setting forth
the proceedings on which the bonds were to be issued; that
they were illegal ; and that it was intended to issue the bonds;
and praying that the town and its officers, particularly the
chairman of- the board of supervisors and the town clerk,
might be enjoined from issuing, and. the railroad company
from accepting or receiving, any such bonds. The town
answered the complaint, and in January, 1879, the case was
tried by the District Court, which, on February.6, 1879, gave
judgment for the defendants and dismissed the- suit. Har-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

rington took an appeal to the Supreme Court of the State,
but, before it was perfected, the bonds were issued and delivered to the company. The Supreme Court, on October 6,1880,
reversed the judgment below, its opinion being reported in 27
Minnesota, 224. It held that, under the Constitution of Minnesota, it was not competent for the legislature to authorize any
person or clqss of persons, other than the electors of a town
or the officers chosen by such electors, to determine what
action, requiring local taxation, the town would take in any
particular case; that, therefore, section 7 of chapter 106 of
the Laws of 1877, which assumed to empower a majority of
the "resident taxpayers," whether they were electors or not,
to bind a town to issue its bonds to aid in the construction of
a railroad, was unconstitutional and void; and that, although
the mode for authorizing the issue of bonds provided by section 7 was invalid, yet, as the same act provided another mode
for authorizing such issue, which was valid, and as the bonds
need not recite under which of the two provisions of the act
they.were issued, but only that they were issued under and
pursuant to such act generally, and a purchaser would then
have the right to presume that they were issued under its
valid provisions, and there might thus be bonafide purchasers
of the bonds, a suit for an injunction would lie to restrain the
issuing of the bonds by the town officers under the invalid
mode provided by section 7 of the act.
On the 18th of March, 1879, the town board of supervisors
passed a resolution that the town issue to the company its
bonds in the sum of $50,000, dated on January 1, 1879,- to
become due on or before 20 years from that date, with interest thereon, payable annually, at seven per cent per annum;
that the bonds be signed and issued by the chairman of the
board and the to-n clerk; and that the issue of stock by the
company to the town in a corresponding amount was waived.
The bonds were issued on the 19th of March, 1879, being one
hundred in number, and numbered consecutively from 1 to
100, each purporting to be the bond of the town of Plainview,
payable to the Plainview Railroad Company or bearer, for
$500, dated January 1, 1879, due on or before January 1, 1899,

WINONA & ST. PETER RAILROAD v. PLAINVIEW.

377

Statement of the Case.

with interest at seven per cent per annum, payable annually,
according to the conditions of the twenty interest coupons
attached, one of them payable January 1, 1880, and one on
January 1 of each year thereafter until the maturity of the
bond. Each bond contained on its face the following statement: "This bond is issued in pursuance of a mutual agreement between the said town and the*said railroad company,
which agreement was made in accordance with the laws of
the State of Minnesota, and through and by a proposition made
by said railroad company, and duly accepted by said town
upon petition therefor signed by a majority of the resident
taxpayers of said town, said agreement having been fully performed by the said railroad company on its part. This bond
is issued in pursuance of the authority given for that purpose
by the laws of the State of Minnesota and in compliance with
a resolution of the board of supervisors of said town."
The company, on or about July 9, 1879, sold, transferred
and delivered the bonds and coupons to citizens of the State of
Wisconsin, who purchased the same without notice of any
facts invalidating the bonds, and-paid the company $50,000 for
them. The bonds and coupons were purchased and acquired
by Samuel Marshall and Charles F. Ilsley, citizens of Wisconsin, who purchased them in -good faith, for value, without
notice of any facts invalidating them. On the 29th of January, 1881, Marshall and Isley commenced an action at law
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Minnesota against the town of Plainview, to recover the amount
of 46 coupons for $35 each, cut from said bonds, which coupons
fell due January 1, 1881. The action was defended by the
town, and was tried before the Circuit Court without a jury,
which found in favor of the plaintiffs and entered a judgment
in their favor for $1746.98. - The opinion of the Circuit Court
of the United States is reported in 3 Mc Crary, 35. It held
that the recitals in the bonds were conclusive evidence in favor
of a purchaser without further information; that the conditions precedent prescribed by the statute had been complied
with; that, as the law under which the bonds were issued had
been recognized as valid by the highest court of the State of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Minnesota, before they were purchased by Marshall and Isley,
no subsequent decision could affect their validity in the hands
of such purchasers; and that the rule charging every one with
notice of pending suits was inapplicable where negotiable
securities constituted the subject matter. The case referred to
by the Circuit Court, as that in which the Supreme Court of
Minnesota had recognized section 7 of chapter 106 of the Laws
of 1877 as constitutional and valid, was that of State v. Toun
of Highland, 25 Minnesota; 355, decided January 10, 1879.
The Circuit Court arrived at the conclusion that, as the bonds
in question had been purchased by Marshall and flsley before
the case of Harringtonv. Plainview Railroad Corm pany had
been decided by the Supreme Court of Minnesota, and that
court had said nothing on the subject previously except what
was contained in its opinion in State v. Town of Highland, the
bonds were not affected by the decision in the .HarringtonCase.
As to the point that the bonds wer invalid in the hands of Marshall and lsley, from the fact that they were purchased during
the .pendency of the Hlarrington suit, the Circuit Court made
answer that said purchasers were not parties to that suit and
had no knowledge of it, and that the rule that all persons were
-bound to take notice of a pending suit did not apply to negotiable securities, citing County of Warren v. .farey, 97 U. S. 96.
Thereafter, Marshall and IUsley brought five other suits
against the town of Plainview, to recover severally upon
coupons cut from said bonds, which coupons became due from
year to year, two of which suits were defended by the town,
and in all of them judgments were recovered against it,
amounting respectively to $1717.31, $4154.08, $2595.57,
$771.15 and $3906.22, three of which six judgments the
toWn paid.
Like judgments with those against the town of Plalirview
were recovered in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Minnesota by Marshall and flsley against the
town of Elgin, Minnesota, and one of the judgments against
each of the two towns was brought to this court by a writ of
error. Neither of the two judgments exceeding $5000, this
court dismissed the writ of error in each case, 106 U. S. 578,

WINONA & ST. PETER RAILROAD v. PLAINVIEW. 379
Statement of the Case.

583, for want of jurisdiction in this court, although the defendants in error were holders and owners of bonds to the amount
of more than $5000, from which the coupons sued on in the
two cases were cut.
On the 3d of March, 1881, an act passed by the legislature
of Minnesota was approved by the governor, entitled "An
act to authorize the Winona and Saint Peter Railroad Company to purchase the stock and to purchase or lease the property and franch:ses of the Plainview Railway Company,"
Special Laws of Minnesota of 1881, c. 414, the provisions of
which were as follows: "Section 1. The Winona and Saint
Peter railroad company is hereby authorized to purchase the
stock or to purchase or lease the property and franchises of the
Plainview railway company; and said last-named company
hereby authorized to sell and convey or to lease its property
and franchises to the said first-named company, upon such
terms as may be agreed upon by the respective boards of
directors of said companies, so as to make the property and
franchises of the last-named company a part of the property
and franchises of said Winona and Saint Peter railroad company to be used and operated by it under its charter. Povided, that, any such purchase of the property or franchises of
the Plainview railway company shall be made, and all such
property held by said Winona and Saint Peter railroad.company, subject to all demands, claims and rights of action
against said Plainview railway company, arising or growing
out of the latter company's having heretofore obtained and
disposed of certain bonds and coupons purporting to have
been issued by the towns of Plainview, Elgin and Viola to
said Plainview railway company, and in taking such transfer
under this act said purchasing company shall assume all claims
and demands against said Plainview railway company to the
extent and value only of the property and franchises so transferred. Sece. 2. The Winona and Saint Peter railroad company is hereby authorized to issue its capital stock to an
amount necessary to make and complete the purchase aforesaid. Sec. 3. This act shall take effect and be in force from
and after its passage."

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

In September, 1884, the town of Plainview brought a suit
against the, Winona and Saint Peter Railroad Company, in
the District Court for the county of Wabasha in the State of
Minnesota, the complaint in which set forth the making by the
Plainview iRailroad Company of the proposition in writing
and the aforesaid acts of compliance with the provisions of
chapter 106 of the Laws of 1877, and the filing with the town
clerk of the petitions signed by the taxpayers, and alleged
that the petitions were not signed by a majority of the electors or legal voters of the town; that no election was held in
the town to authorize the supervisors to agree to the proposition or to issue any bonds; that the board of supervisors
adopted the resolutions before referred to without authority or
right from the electors of the town or otherwise, the supervisors and the railroad company well knowing that a majority
of the electors or legal voters of the town had not signed the
petitions and that no election had been held authorizing the
passing of the resolutions; that there was no authority to pass
the same, or to bind the town thereby, or to issue the bonds;
that the b.onds were issued and delivered to the company;
and that the latter, on or about July 9, 1879, intending to
injure and defraud the town and deprive it of any defence
to the bonds or coupons as against bona Jide holders thereof
for value, sold and transferred the bonds to citizens of Wisconsin, who purchased the same of the company bonaflde, without notice of any of the facts invalidating the bonds, and
paid the company $50,000 therefor. The complaint then set
out the suits and judgments against the town by MAarshall and
Ilsley, and the passing of the act of March 3, 1881, and averred
that the passage of that act was procured by the Winona and
Saint Peter Railroad Company, and the act duly accepted and
assented to by that company; that the bonds and coupons
mentioned in that act were the same before referred to, and
the said company under said act issued and disposed .of its
stock to an amount necessary to make and complete the purchase authorized by the act; and that, about May, 1881, that
company, acting solely under the provisions of the act, purchased all the property and franchises of the Plainview Rail-

WINONA & ST. PETER RAILROAD. v. PLIIYVIEW.

381

Statement of the Case.

road Company, of the value of $200,000, and in making such
purchase, and as part of the consideration therefor, assumed
all claims, demands and rights of action against the Plainview Railroad Company, as provided in the act, including the
claim, demand and right of action set forth in the complaint,
and agreed to pay the same. The complaint demanded judgment against the Winona and Saint Peter Railroad Company
for $50,000, with interest from January 1, 1879, at seven per
cent per annum.
The record shows that on the 11th of May, 1881, the Plainview Railroad Company conveyed, by an instrument in writing, to the Winona and Saint Peter Railroad Company all its
railroad, about sixteen miles in length, and all its franchises
and property, for the consideration of $225,000 paid, "and by
virtue of the pover and authority conferred upon the parties"
by the act of March 3, 1881.
The defendant put in an answer to the complaint, denying
its liability, to which answer the plaintiff replied. Evidence
was given as to the suit of Harrington and the suits of Marshall and flsley against the town, and the case was tried in
June, 1885, before the District Court for Wabasha County,
which made findings of fact and conclusions of law, on
December 26, 1885, and entered a judgment for the plaintiff
for $74,451.31, being $50,000 with interest from January 1,
1879, at seven per cent per annum.
The defendant moved for a new trial, which was denied in
May, 1886, and it then appealed to the Supreme Court of
Minnesota from the order denying the motion. The case was
decided by that court April 28, 1887, (36 Minnesota, 505,) and
it affirmed the order denying the motion for a new trial, and
adjudged that the plaintiff have judgment accordingly. On
the mandate of the Supreme Court, the District Court gave
judgment for the plaintiff for $80,031.86 damages and $257.09
costs and disbursements, being in all $80,288.95. From that
judgment the defendant took a further appeal to the Supreme
Court of the State, which court affirmed the judgment below,
for the reasons given in the opinion of the court, reported in
36 Minnesota, 505, and directed judgment accordingly, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

was entered in the Supreme Court. To review that judgment,
a writ of error was sued out from this court on the allowance
of the-chief justice of the Supreme Court of Minnesota.
The writ of error in the case of Winona and Saint Peter
Railroad Company v. Town of .Elgin, (No. 172,) is presented
for consideration at the same time with the case of the town
of Plainview, and was argued at the same time on the same
briefs. The two cases have gone along together pari assu
in the lower courts, and the proceedings in them have been
alike, mutatis mutandis. The bonds in the case of the town
of Elgin were for $40,000, being eighty in number, of $500
each, bearing date Jaauary 1, 1879, and containing the same
recital as in the case of the town of Plainview. The judgments in favor of Marshall and Ilsley against the town of
Elgin were five in number, being respectively for $1696.85,
$1443.91, $2852.85, $2745.12, and $3175.82, all recovered
upon coupons. The judgment of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota against the plaintiff in error here in the suit
brought against it by the town of Elgin was rendered July
30, 1887, for $64,245.77. In 36 Minnesota, 517, the Supreme
Court says that the case of the town of Elgin against the railroad company was argued and submitted with the case of the
town of Plainview against the same defendant, and involved
the same questions; and that court affirmed the order of the
lower court.
In the decision reported in 36 Minnesota, 505, the first
opinion was given by Judge Vanderburgh and concurred in
by Judge Berry. A second opinion was given by Chief Justice
Gilfillan and Judge Dickinson. Judge Mitchell dissented. In
the first opinion, it was said that the question of the validity
of, the bonds was considered and determined in Harringtonv.
Town of Plainview, 27 Minnesota, 224; that the bonds were
not issued on the vote of the electors of the town, in pursuance of section 5 of chapter 106 of the Laws of 1877, but in
pursuance of section 7 of that statute, on the petition of a
majority of the resident taxpayers; that the proceedings to
procure the bonds were initiated and prosecuted by the railroad company under the act, by filing with the town clerk its

WINONA & ST. PETER RAILROAD v. PLAINVIEW.

383

Statement of the Case.

proposition in writing, as provided by section 4 of the act, for
the issue to it of the bonds of the town, and thereafter by
securing and filing the petition of the taxpayers, as directed
by section 7; and that the evidence in the case was sufficient
to uphold the finding of the trial court that the bonds in controversy were issued to the Plainview Railroad Company, and
by its agents transferred to the Chicago and Northwestern
Railroad Company, at their par value, in consideration of the
amount due to the latter company, which it had previously
advanced in aid of the construction of the other company's
railroad. The first opinion then proceeded as follows: "Before
the issuance of the bonds, the action above referred to was
commenced to enjoin the same, and, while the case was pending in this court, the bonds were issued and transferred. The
evidence, however, does not warrant the conclusion that there
was any actual fraud in the procurement or transfer of the
bonds. Both railway companies were cognizant of the pendency of the action, and of the grounds of the alleged invalidity
of the bonds; but the legal questions involved were still open
and in dispute, and they were advised and believed them to
be legal and valid. It is affirmed by the trial court, upon
sufficient evidence, that, except as appears upon the face of
the bonds, Marshall and Ilsley, and others, to whom they
were subsequently transferred, had no notice of the suit, and
were bonafde purchasers and holders for value. The Chicago
and Northwestern Railway Company was a foreign corporation, and the subsequent purchasers of the bonds were and
are citizens of other States. The bonds all recite on their
face that they were issued in pursuance of the authority given
for that purpose by the laws of the State of Minnesota, and in
compliance with a resolution of the board of supervisors of the
town, and also 'in pursuance of a mutual agreement, between
the said town and the said railroad company, which agreement
was made in accordance with the .laws of the State of Minnesota, and through and by a proposition made by said railroad
company and duly accepted by said town, upon petition therefor signed by a majority of the resident taxpayers of said town,
said agreement having been duly performed by said railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

company on its part.' This court held in the Tarrington,
Case that an agreement, consummated by proceedings under
the provisions of the statute referred to, between the railway
company and the majority of the taxpayers, could not, under
the Constitution, be considered as the lawful agreement of the
town, nor be of any binding obligation as such, and that bonds
issued in pursuance thereof would be void, except in the hands
of bona fide purchasers."
The first opinion then said, that the bonds were invalid in
the hands of the Plainview company, and could not have been
enforced by it; that although that company had built its road,
there was no agreement made with the town; that the town,
in its corporate capacity, had received nothing, been guilty of
no laches, and waived nothing, and there was no estoppel ; and
that it was entitled to be protected against the unauthorized
acts of its own officers, when that could be done without
'injury to third parties, citing Thomas v. City of Richmond,
12 Wall. 349, 356, and Town of SoutA Ottawa v. Pee'kins, 94
U. S. 260. The first opinion also said, that, while the recitals
in the bonds were sufficient to put the purchasers upon inquiry
as to the authority for the issue of the bonds and the manner
in which they were in fact issued, and by the recitals all purchasers were chargeable with notice of. the invalidity of the
bonds, Marshall and Ilsley had brought suit upon the coupons
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the- District of
Minnesota, and the bond had been duly adjudged and determined, in a trial upon the merits in that court, to be valid in
their hands, and the result of that judgment was to make the
bonds valid negotiable securities, held by them as bonaftfe
purchasers; that, as the Plainview company and the Winona
and Saint Peter company were not parties to that action, the
town was not estopped from litigating in the state courts the
questions involved in the case; that the judgment of the Circuit
Court of the United States could not be reviewed or modified
by the state courts; that the result of its decision and judgment was.to fix irrevocably the liability of the town for the
whole amount of the indebtedness evidenced by the bonds;
and that it must be deemed, therefore, to have been settled

WINONA & ST. PETER RAILROAD v. PLAINVIEW.

385

Statement of the Case.

conclusively that the bonds had been transferred to parties iu
whose hands they had become valid and legal obligations
against the town.
It was further said, that it was determined conclusively, by
the judgment in Harr'ington v. Town of Plainview, that the
bonds were void in the hands of the Plainview company, that
company having had its day in court in that case; that the
issuing and disposition of the bonds must be treated by the
state courts as unlawful and wrongful; that, as the bonds,
when once placed on the market, were liable to pass into the
hands of par'chasers who would be entitled to enforce the same
as valid negotiable securities in the United States courts, it
followed that the town had a cause of action for damages;
that the Plainview company transferred the bonds for full
value, in payment of moneys advanced for building its road,
and Marshall and Ilsley paid nearly par for them; that they
we-e treated by all parties as valuable commercial securities,
placed on the market and sold, and enforced as such against
the town; and that, as the bonds were invalid and the Plainview company acquired no title to them as obligations of the
town, it could not claim to be entitled to the proceeds of them
as its property.
It was further said, that, as the Plainview company received
the full face yalue of the bonds, the amount of the recovery
would be the same whether the suit was one for money had
and received or one for a conversion; that the allegations of
the complaint and the findings of fact were sufficient to support the action in either form; that the title to the bonds had
been confirmed in the present holders of them, who had recovered, or would recover, the full amount thereof; that the liability of the town had been fixed through the acts of the
Plainview company in procuring and negotidting the bonds,
which acts were unauthorized and wrongful; that suclh proceedings as would result in the enforcement of the bonds must
be presumed to have been intended and contemplated by the
Plainview company, either in its own hands or by purchasers
who might occupy a more advantageous position, and it could
not be permitted to object that the bonds were of no valueor
VOL. cXLIm-25

OCTOBER TERMVI, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

allege its own wrong, for the purpose of defeating the action,
(citing Comstock v. Hlier, 73 N. Y. 269; Lamb v. Clark, 15
Pick. 193, 197 ;) and that the town'was not estopped or concluded by the result of the suit of Marshall and Ilsley, to
which the Plainview company was not a party.
The first ppinion further held that, under the provision of
the act of Max'h 3, 1881, that the Winona and Saint Peter
company should -make the purchase from the Plainview company "subject to all demands, claims and rights of action
against said Plainview Railway Company arising or growing
out of the latter company's having heretofore obtained and
disposed of certain bonds and coupons purporting to have been
issued by the towns" named to the Plainview company, the
Winona and Saint Peter company acquired the property and
franchises of the Plainview company by virtue of that act, and
of course took the grant cum onere and subject to the provisions and conditions of the act. The conclusion was that the
town was entitled to recovei, and that the order denying a
new trial should be affirmed.
The second opinion concurred in the conclusion of the first
opinion, but based the responsibility of the company on the
following considerations, viz.: That the company, having procured the unauthorized execution and delivery to itself of the
bonds, in form expressing the obligation of the town, and having negotiated them so that they had come into the hands of
parties who had enforced a recovery upon them by proper
action in a competent tribunal, was answerable for its own
unauthorized acts, which had resulted in that injury to the
town, unless the recovery upon the bonds was to be deemed
to be too remote a conseqtience to afford a ground of legal liability; that, as to the acts of the company, the injurious consequenc6 was not remote, but proximate; that, when the company procured and disposed of the bonds, it must be deemed to
have contemplated that the town should pay the bonds, either
voluntarily or by legal compulsion; that it made no difference
if the judgmenit by which the liability of the town to pay the
bonds had been conclusively established was erroneous; and
that that did hot make remote the damage complained of.

WINONA & ST. PETER RAILROAD v. PLAINVIEW.

387

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The Federal questions alleged to be involved in these cases
are thus 'stated by the plaintiff in error: (1) Did the Supreme
Court of Minnesota, in rendering its judgments in these cases,
fail to give to the judgments of the United States Circuit
Court in the Marshall and Tisley cases such faith and credit as
they ',ere entitled to under the Constitution and laws of the
United States? (2) Did it, in rendering these judgments, disregard the provision of the Constitution of the United States
that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of a
contract? They are otherwise stated in another of the briefs
for the plaintiff in error as follows: (1) The Supreme Court
of Minnesota, in rendering the judgments under revibw, disregarded the provision of the Constitution of :the United States
that no State shal pass any law impairing the obligation of
a contract, in that it erroneously decided that the contracts
and bonds of the towns were invalid, and on that ground
gave effect to the act of March 3, 1881, as making the Winona
and Saint Peter Railroad Company liable for the transfer of
the bonds; (2) The Supreme Court, in rendering its judgments
in these cases, disregarded the Constitution and laws of the
United States in deciding that the Winona and Saint Peter
Railroad Company was liable to the towns, because it was responsible for the consequences to them of the judgments in
the Marshall and Ilsley cases, although the company would
not have been liable but for said judgments.
The towns have moved to dismiss the writs of error -for
want of jurisdiction in this court, on the ground that the
records present no Federal question.
Afr. loyd IF. Bowers (with whom was
on on the brief) for plaintiff in error.

.. Tomas Wil-

I. It is not necessary, in order that a subsequent statute shall
impair a previous contract's obligation, that the statute should
itself be made the reason for declaring the contract invalid
or for restricting the contract's full and proper operation.
Even if, as here, the state court declares tife contract invalid
on grounds independent of the later statute, still if the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

clared invalidity of the contract, though placed upon such
independent or general grounds, is made the reason for giving
the subsequent statute an effect which it could not have but
for the contract's invalidity, the contract is impaired by the
later act. The essential thing is only that the subsequent act
be given an effect which it cannot properly have if the contract is valid.' An inconsistency between the subsequent
statute, as judicially given effect, and the rights growing out
of the contract, correctly construed, makes a case of impairment of the obligation of the contract. Bridge Proprietors v. hoboken, Co., 1 Wall. 116, 144, 145; Delmas v.. Jerchants Ins. Co., 14 Wall. 661; University v. Peo1e, 99 U. S.
809; W-right v. Nagle, 101 U. S. 791, 793, 794; Louisville
Gas Co. v. Citizens' Gas Co., 115 U. S.683, 696; Southwestern
_Railroad v. Wright, 116 U. S. 231; Vicksburg &c.Railroad
.v. Dennis, 116 U. S. 665; Given, v. IFright, 117 U. S. 648;
Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroad v. "Gufey,120 U. S. 569;
-Hoadley v. San .Francisco,124 U. S. 639; New Orleans Water
Works v. Louisiana Sugar Co., 125 U. S. 18; Yazoo c&.fiss.
V-alley Railroadv. Thomas, 132 U. S. 174.
It is the effect actually given to a statute, subsequent to a
contract and claimed to impair it, which determines whether,
if the contract exists, the statute does in fact impair it. The
statute, as construed by the state court, and with the operation there accorded it, is what this court looks at to decide
whether a contract has had its obligation impaired.
IL It is settled on principle and by the express adjudications
of this court that due effect is not given to the judgments of Federal courts sitting in a-particular State unless they are accorded
such effect as would in a like case, under similar circumstances,
be accorded to the judgments of the state courts of equal
authority in such State; and the question whether a state
court has given such effect to any such judgment is a question
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States
and falls within the jurisdiction of this court. Crescent Live
Stock Co.v. Butchers' Union, 120 U. S.141; Embry v. Palmer, 107 U. S.3; D passeurv. Rochereau, 21 Wall. 130.
Did the Supreme Court of Minnesota in these cases give to

WINIONA & ST. PETER RAILROAD v. PLAINVIEW.

389

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the judgments of the United States Circuit Court in Marshall
and Ilsley's cases such force and effect as it would have
allowed them had they been rendered by it? That it did not
hardly admits of discussion; and it follows that it did not
accord to them such credit and effect as it should have accorded under the Constitution.
To break the force of this conclusion counsel are understood
to argue that the state courts are not bound to give full faith
and credit, or any faith and credit, to judgments of the
Federal courts except in a suit and between parties where
such judgments would operate as a technical estoppel. This
court has in well-considered language answered this contention. Speaking of the Federal courts, it says: "Their judgment or decree when rendered is binding and perfect between
the parties until reversed, without regard to any adverse
opinion or judgment of any other court of merely concurrent
jurisdiction. Its integrity, its validity, and its effect are complete in'all respects between all parties in every suit and in
every forum where it is legitimately produced as the foundation of an action, or of a defence, either by plea or in proof, as
it would be in any other circumstances. While it remains in
force it determines the rights of the parties betw een themselves,
and may be carried into execution in due course of law to its
full extent, funishing a complete protection to all who act in
compliance with its mandate." Crescent Live Stock Co. v.
Butchers' Union, 120 U. S. 141, 157. The learned counsel of
the defendants in error rely on the case of Dupasseurv. Rochereau, 21 Wall. 130, which they claim is on all fours with this
case and decisive of this question.
If I have intelligently read that case, all it decides is that,
inasmuch as the judgment of the United States Circuit Court
relied on by Dupasseur as a defence did not touch or affect
the rights of either party or any question involved in that suit,
the state court acted properly in not regarding it. It has no
application to the question to which it is cited. Green v. Van
Buskirk, 5 Wall. 307; S. C. 7 Wall. 139; Crapo v. Kelly, 16
Wall. 610; Factors' & Traders' Ins. Co. v. Mluiy, 111 U. S.
738; rescent.Live Stock Co. v. Butchers- Union, 120 U. S. 141.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

.Xr. Cushman
. Davis and .Afr. Frank B. Kellogg for
defendants iu error.
'r. C. F Bunn was with them on the
brief.
ME. JUSTICE BLATCOFORD, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
To-present a Federal question on the ground that full faith
and credit were not given by the state court to the judgments
of the Circuit Court of the United States in the Marshall and
JIsley cases, it must appear that the state court denied to the
plaintiff in error, within the terms of ยง 709 of the Revised
Statutes, "some title, right, privilege or immunity" held by
the plaintiff in error under the judgments of the Circuit Court
of the United States in those cases, and claimed by it in the
state court under the Constitution or a statute of the United
States; and that the decision of the state court was against
the title, right, privilege or immunity specially set up or
claimed by the plaintiff in error under such Constitution or
statute. This does not appear by the records. The Marshall
and Ilsley cases were suits by citizens of Wisconsin against
the towns. Neither the plaintiff in error nor the Plainview
company was a party to those suits, nor was any one in privity
with either company such party. Those cases settled only
the question whether the towns were liable to Marshall and
1isley on the bonds. They did not settle the rights of the
towns, and of the Plainview company or the plaintiff in error,
as between each other, with regard to the bonds. The Circuit
Court of the United States sustained the validity of the bonds
on the ground that Marshall and JIsley were bona.jde holders
of them. The fact that the Supreme Court of Minnesota, in
the preseiit cases, did not acquiesce in the correctness of the
decision of the Circuit Court of the United States, did not constitute a Federal question. Neither the Constitution of the
United States nor any act of Congress guarantees to a suitor
that the same rule of law shall be applied to him by a state
court which would be applied if his citizenship were such that
his suit might be brought in a Federal court. Dupasseur v.

WINONA & ST. PETER RAILROAD v. PLAINVIEW.

391

Opinion of the Court.

1,oc]ereaw, 21 Wall. 130- Brooks v. Missouri, 124 U. S. 394;
Freach v. HTp)kins, 124 U. S. 524; Chappellv. Bradshaw, 128
U. S. 132; (lark v. Pennsylvania, '128 U. S. 395; Hale v.
Akers, 132 U. S. 554; MIlanning v. French, 133 U. S. 186;
Giles v. -Little,134 U. S. 645; County of Cook v. Calumet &
(idea go Caial Co., 138 U. S. 635.
The cases cited by the plaintiff in error, of Green, v. 'Fan
Btskirik, 5 Wall. 307, and 7 Wall. 139; (rapo v. Kelly, 16
Wall. 610; Fuctors' and Traders' Ins. Co. v. 3fvryhy, 111
U. S. 738 ;'and Ce'escent .Live Stock Co. v. Butchers' Union,
120 U. S. 141, are not applicable to the present cases.
The state court gave to the decisions of the Circuit Court
of the United States all the effect which they could possibly
have, namely, the conclusive settlement of the liability of the
towfis on the bonds to Marshall and Ilsley, as lona fie purchasers. The right of action of the towns depended upon
sustaining the Marshall and flsley judgments as conclusive
and not to be reviewed by the state courts. It was an essential element of the suits of the towns to show that they had
been legally coppelled to pay the bonds, in suits by bona fide
holders of them. In pursuance of that claim, the state court
held that the judgments of the Circuit Court of the United
States were valid and conclusive in favor of the towns in the
present suits. There was no question before the Circuit Court
of the United States as to the liability of the towns to the
Plainview company upon the bonds. The decisions of the
Circuit Court of the United States held that Marshall and
Ilsley, as bona fide purbhasers of the bonds, acquired rights
which were superior to those of the Plainview company.
The judgments in the present suits are founded on the fact
that the wrongful acts of the Plainview company enabled
Marshall and flslev to acquire those rights.
The contention that the act of" March 3, 1881, impaired the
obligation of a contract is raised for the first time in this court.
The records do not'show that any such proposition was set up
in, or considered by, the state court. Butler v. Gage, 138
U. S. 52.
No Federal question was involved in Harrington,v. Town,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of tlhe Court.

of Plainview, .27. Minnesota, 224; but the bonds were held
invalid on grounds independent of the act of March 3, 1881.
That decision was made in October, 1880, before the act of
M,arch 3, 1881, was passed, and was followed by the state
couxt. in the present cases. The act of 1881 had no bearing
upon the question of the validity of the bonds, and the state
court gave to that act no effect on that question; so that these
cases fall within the principle of Nf. 0. Water WTorks Co. v.
-La.Sugar Peft2ing Co.; 125 U. S. 18, 38, 39, because the state
court decided them just as if the act of March 3, 1881, had
not been passed. There was a perfect right of action in the
towns against the Plainview company before the act of 1881
was passed; and such liability of the Plainview company was
what the plaintiff in error assumed by proceeding under the
act of 1881. That statute did not impose, and was not the
cause of, such liability, but simply allowed the plaintiff in
error to contract to assume 'such liability. The act of 1881
does not affect any prior contract. It merely declares that, if
the Plainview company was liable to the towns for having
obtained and disposed of the bonds, the plaintiff in error, if it
should purchase the property and franchises of the Plainview
company, must assume the liability of that company to the
towns; and the plaintiff in error accepted and acted under the
terms of the statute, on the express condition that it should be
liable to the towns ff the Plainview company were so liable.
The Plainview company could have raised no such question
based on the act of 1881 as the plaintiff in error now seeks to
raise, The bonds had been declared void by the state court,
as b.tween the Plainview company and the towns, in a suit to
which the town of*Vainview and the Plainview company were
parties. The company had made the bonds, which were invalid in its hands, valid in the hands of bona fde purchasers,
by transferring them. This took place before the act of 1881
,vas passed, and a right of action arose at that time in favor
f the towns and.against the Plainview company. Such right
of action was made fruitless by the purchase of the property
and franchises of the Plainview company' by the plaintiff in
error. It was necessary for the legislature to authorize the

WINO A & ST. PETER RAILROAD v.PLAINVIEW.

393

Opinion of the Court.

sale and purchase, in order to make them valid, and, as a condition of such purchase, the statute imposed the liability in
question on the plaintiff in error. The liability expressly covered all demands, claims and rights of action against the Plainview company arising out of its having "obtained and disposed
of" the bonds and coupons purporting to have been issued by
the towns. Therefore, the only question in the present suitz
left to be determined by the state court was whether, as the
Plainview company had disposed of the bonds and couppns to
oca fide purchasers, who had enforced them against the
towns, a cause of action was created thereby in favor of the
towns against the Plainview company. Inasmuch as, if these
suits had been between the towns and the Plainview company, no Federal question would have been presented, there
can be none in the present suits.
This court has jurisdiction only wihen the state court has
given effect to a legislative enactment which impairs the obligation of a prior contract. No such thing exists in the present cases. The act of 1881 did not attempt to render invalid
any contract between the towns and the Plainview company.
Although the plaintiff in error was held liable by the state
court by virtue of the act of 1881, that did not raise a Federal
question, because the liability was one assumed voluntarily by
the plaintiff in error. The liability of the Plainview company
must first be established, before the act of 1881 can have any
effect. The Supreme Court of Minnesota held the bonds invalid
by reason of provisions in the constitution of the State, which
were in force at the time of the passage of the act of 1877;
and it did not hold them invalid by reason of the acb of 1881.
Bethell v. Demaret, 10 Wall. 537; TFest Tenn. Bank v. Citizens' Bank of La., 13 Wall. 432, and 14 Wall. 9; Delmas
v. As.Co., 14 Wald. 661, 666; Tarver v. Keach, 15 Wall. 67;
Stevenson v. Tilliarns,19 Wall. 572; .N. 0. Water TForb Co.
v. Louisiana ugar Befrning Co., 125 tJ. S.18, 35.
Moreover, the liability of the Plainview company to the
towns, which is sought to be enforced in' the present suits
against the plaintiff in error, was founded on tort, and did not
arise out of any contract relations. That liability was what

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

was assumed by the plaintiff in error; and no question can
arise as to the impairment by the act of 1881 of the obligation
of any contract.
The writs of error must be
Dismissed.
MR. JusTio BREwF did not sit in these cases or take any
part in their decision.

IRON SILVER 'MINING COMPANY v. MIKE AND
STARR GOLD AND SILVER MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No.2.

Argued November,20, 23, 1891.-Decided February 29, 1892.

The term "known vein" Rev. Stat. ยง 2333 refers to a vein or lode whose
eXistepce is known, as contradistinguished from one which has been
appropriated by location. The title to portions of a horizontal vein or
deposit, generally called a '.blanket vein," may be acquired under the
sections of the Revised Statutes concerning veins, lodes, etc,
In ejectment for the possession of a mine, the plaintiff claimed under a placer
patent, issued January 30, 1880, on an application made November 13,
1878, and entry and payment made February 21, 1879. The defendant
claimed under a location certificate of a lode issued to one Goodell, dated
March 10, and recorded March 11, 1879, reciting a location February 1,
1879. The defendant, to maintain its claim, offered the testimony of
several witnesses, which established beyond any doubt that in 1877, and
more than a year before any proceedings were initiated with reference
tothe placer patent, the grantors of defendant entered upon and ran a
tu reel some 400 feet in length into and through that ground which afterwhrds was patented as the placer tract; and that in running such tunnel
they intersected and crossed three veins, one of 'which was thereafter,
and in 1879, located as the Goodell vein or lode. The vein thus crossed
and disclosed by the tunnel was from seventy-five to seventy-eight feet
from its mouth, of about fifteen inches in width, with distinct walls of
porphyry on either side, a vein whose existence was obvious to even a
casual inspection by any one passing through the tunnel. At the trial
the court ruled that if the vein was known to the placer patentee at or
before entry and payment, although not known at the time of the application for patent, it was excepted from the property conveyed. Held,
(1) That this vein was a known vein at the time of the application for
the placer patent;

