-202,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

tion whether it does or does not include debts contracted by
him as a member of a partnership. Eawparte Freen, 2 Glyn &
. 246; chuck v. Freen, Mood. & Malk. 259; Ex _parte MeHenna, 3 DeG. F. & J.,629; Bvfalo Bank v. Thompson, 121
N. Y. 280; HYallowell v. Blackstone Bank, 154 Mass. 359.
For these reasons, we concur in the opinion delivered by the
Chief Justice in the Circuit Court, that the seventh clause of
the will, whether operating by way of release or by way of
legacy, cannot be construed as including the joint, and several
notes of Waterman & Porter, or any part thereof.
-Decreeajiimed.

In re WOODS, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted January 18, 1892.-Decided February 29, 1892.

The questions (1) whether it is settled law in the State of Minnesota that a
judgment of dismissal in a former suit, such as is pleaded in this case,
was not a bar to a second suit on the same cause of action; (2) whether
the law in respect of recovery by a servant against his master for injuries received in the course of his employment was properly applied on
the trial of a case, do not fall within the category of questions of such
gravity and general importance as to require the review of the conclusions of the Circuit Court of Appeals in reference to them.

Tnis was an application for a writ of certioraqito the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth District. The
court stated the case as follows:
This was an action brought br August Lindvall in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota
against John Woods and Stephen B. Lovejoy, partners as
Woods & Lovejoy, to recover for a personal injury alleged to
have been caused through the negligence of the defendants.
The issues were a'general denial and the plea. of former adjudication.

IN RE WOODS.
Statement of the Case.

The case was twice tried, and upon the first trial the plea
of former adjudication was sustained, but a hew trial was
granted for the reasons given in the opinions of Mr. Justice
Miller and Judge Nelson, reported in 47 Fed. Rep. 195. The
second trial resulted in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff for $3800, and costs taxed at $142.50, and a motion for
new trial having been overruled, the case was taken by writ
of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.
In the Circuit Court it was contented, on the merits, that
the rule which precludes a servant from recovering from his
master for an injury received through the negligence of fellow-servants was applicable, and upon the conclusion of the
evidence the defendants moved the court to instruct the jury
to return a verdict for them on the ground that the plaintiff
had failed to make out a cause of action, which motion was
denied, exception taken, and the ruling assigned for error.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the rule invoked did
not apply, and that the verdict was sustained by the evidence. (4 U. S. App. 49.)
From the bill of exceptions it appeared that to sustain their
plea of a former adjudication, the defendants offered in evidence-a duly certified transcript of record, which showed the
following facts:
"That the same plaintiff had brought an action against the
same defendants, fipon exactly the same cause, for the same
injury, in the District Court of the State of Minnesota for the
county of Hennepin, a court of general jurisdiction in said
State.
"That upon the trial of said cause in said District Court,
after the plaintiff had put in all his evidence and rested his
case, the defendants moved said District Court to dismiss said
action upon the ground that the evidence of plaintiff did not
make out a case against said defendants; which motion, after
due and solemn argument by both defendants and plaintiff
and upon due consideration, was granted by said District
Court and said action was dismissed.

201

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

"That thereupon the plaintiff procured a stay of proceedings and made up and procured to be settled and signed by
the judge who tried the case a settled case and exceptions containing all the evidence, and upon the pleadings and such
settled case made a motion for a new trial in said District,
Court; that said motion for a new trial, after due hearing and
consideration, was denied by said District Court.
"That thereupon said plaintiff, under the practice and procedure in the Minnesota courts in such cases, appealed to the
Supreme Court of Minnesota from said order denying the
motion for a new trial and carried to the Supreme Court upon
such appeal the pleadings and all the evidence given in the
court below.
1"That the case upon said appeal was duly heard and tried
in said Supreme Court, and the decision and order of said
District Court was by said Supreme Court duly and in all
things affirmed.
"That thereupon a mandate issued from said Supreme
Court to said District Court forfurther proceedings in accordance with such decision, and upon the filing of said mandate.
judgment in said cause was given and entered in said District
Court as follows, to wit:
(Omitting title and recitals.)
"Now, on motion of -Messrs. Shaw & Cray, attorneys for
said defendanfs, it is ordered and adjudged that said action be,
and hereby is, dismissed, and that said defendants do have and
recover of said plaintiff the sum of seven and T% dollars for
their costs and disbursements of said action duly taxed and
allowed herein."

To the admission of this transcript in evidence plaintiff
objected, the objection was sustained, the transcript excluded,
and defendants duly excepted.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the effect of the
judgment of the state court dismissing, on the defendants'
inotionan action brought in that court, at the conclusion of
plaintiff's testimony, upon the, ground that the plaintiff had
failed to make out a case, was a question of local law depend-

IN RE WOODS.

205

Opinion of the Court.

ing on the construction of the statute of the State, and that
the established doctrine of the Supreme Court of Minnesota
was that under the statute such judgment of dismissal was
not a judgment upon the merits of the action which would
bar the plaintiff from maintaining another suit for the same
cause, but that it was in effect nothing more than a common
law or voluntary non-suit; that this construction by the
Supreme Court of the State should be followed by that court;
and, therefore, that the record of the judgment of dismissal
constituted no bar to the action and was rightly, excluded.
Judgment of affirmance having been rendered by the Circuit Court of Appeals, the mandate was stayed in order to
enable plaintiffs in error to make application to this. court for
a writ of certiorari in the cause, and that application was
accordingly made, upon notice, and accompanied by a certified
copy of the entire record of the case, in compliance with the
rule.
.Mr. Willard P. Cray for the petitioners.
MAr. John IF. A rtanderand Xr. John .ind opp6sing.
MR. CIIEF JUSTICE FULLRR delivered the opinion of the
court.

In -Lay Ow Bew, Petitioner, 141 U. S. 583, it was held
that the power of this court to require a case in which the
judgment and decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is made
final, to be certified for review and determination, as if it had
been brought here on appeal or writ' of error, could only be
properly invoked under section six of the act of Congress entitled "An act to establish Circuit Courts of Appeals and to
define and regulate in certain cases the jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States, and for other purposes," approved
March 3, 1891, (26 Stat. 826, 828, c. 517,) when questions of
gravity and importance were involved.
This must necessarily be so in any view, and especially
when it is considered that the Circuit Courts of Appeals were
created for the purpo- - of relieving this court of the oppres-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

sive burden of general litigation, which impeded the examination and disposition of cases of public concern, and delayed
suitors in the pursuit of justice.
But in the interest of jurisprudence and uniformity of decision, to use the language of the eminent jurist and statesman
who had charge of the bill, provision was made under section
six for such supervision on our part as would tend to avert
diversity of judgments and guard against inadvertence of
conclusion in controversies involving weighty, and serious
matters.
In the matter of LZa Ow 1ew, the consttuction of acts of
Congress in the light of treaties with a foreign government,
and the status of domicil in respect of natives of one country
domiciled in another, a matter of international concern, were
brought under consideration upon the record, and we were of
opinion that the grounds of the application were sufficient to
call for our interposition.
But we do not regard the inquiry as to whether it was settled
law in the State of finnesota that a judgment of dismissal in
a former suit, such as pleaded here, was not a bar to a second
suit upon the same cause of action, or whether the law in
respect of recovery by a servant against his master for injuries
received in the course of his employment was properly applied
on the trial of this case, as falling within the category of
questions of such gravity and general importance as to require
the review of the conclusions of the Circuit Court of Appeals
in reference to them.
Die writ of certiorami i& denied.

