THE SYLVIA HANDY.
"Statement of the Case.

ment of the District Court shall, in like manner, be subject to
a writ of error."
In our view, that decision is in point and is decisive. We
hold that an appeal lay to this court from the decree in question, and, further, that the act of 1875 applies, and that, the
District Court having found -the facts, we should be limited,
on appeal, in the consideration of the case, to the questions of
law presented on the record.
Upon the face of the libel, the facts found and the final
decree, the 'District Court clearly had jurisdiction. This petitioner had a remedy by appeal from that deciee, which was
inefficacious because of his neglect to have included in those
findings the fact of the exact locality of the offence and seizure.
Such being the case, the writ of prohibition prayed for should
not issue, even if, under any, circumstances, the court could
consider the evidence taken below in determining whether a
prohibition should issue after sentence.
Rule discharged andproibiionr denied.
MR. JuSTICE FIELD

dissented.

THE SYLVIA HANDY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 58. Argued November 11, 1891.-Decided February 29,1892.

As the bill of exceptions does not purport to contain all the evidence, and
as no request was made for a finding of fact as to the actual fact of the
killing of the seals and the seizure of the vessel, the rulings in Exparte
Cooper, ante, 472, are decisive of this case, and it is followed.

Tim court stated-the case as follows:
This was a libel filed in the District Court of the United
States in and for the District of Alaska, September 15, 1887,
vOL. cxLnI-33

OCTOBER TERM. 1891.
Statemeint of the Case.

alleging the seizure by the commander of the revenue-cutter
Bear, duly thereto authorized, of the schooner Sylvia Handy of
San Francisco, her tackle, etc., on September.2, 1887, "within
the limits of Alaska Territory, and in the waters thereof, and
within the civil and judicial district of Alaska, to wit, within
the waters of that portion of Behring Sea belonging to the
United States and said district, on waters navigable from
the sea by vessels of ten or more tons' burden," as forfeited
to the United States for the killing of fur seal "within the
limits of Alaska Territory and in the said waters thereof in
violation of section 1956 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States."
Monition was duly issued and returned, and the owners
intervened and made claim to the schooner, her tackle, etc.,
September 19,. 1887, and on the same day filed a general
demurrer, which was overruled, and then an answer traversing
the averments of the libel in general terms.
The right to publication and posting of notice of the libel
and seizure of the property proceeded against was waived, as
also the time of hearing. The cause having been heard, the
following findings and conclusions of law were made and filed
September 22, 1887:,
"This cause having been tried and submitted, the court,
from the evidence, finds the following facts and conclusions
of law:
"1st. That on the 2d day of September, 1887, and theretofore, the master and crew of the defendant's vessel were
engaged in killing and did kill .ffur seals in that portion of
Behring Sea ceded by Russia to the United States by the
treaty of March, 1867, and within the waters of Alaska, in
violation of section 1956 of the Revised Stitutes of the United
States, and that the promiscuous shooting of fur-bearing animals in the waters adjacent to the islands of St. Paul and St.
George, and in that portion of Behring Sea east of the 193d
degree of west longitude, has a tendency to frighten and
"revent said animals from going upon those islands, as they
have beeni accustomed to do in the past.
"' 9d. That on the said 2d day of September, 1887, said

THE SYLVIA HANDY.
Opinion of the Court.

vessel, her furniture, apparel, tackle, cargo and. 1679 far-seal
skins were seized in said waters by .the comnianding officer of
the United States revenue-cutter Bear, then and there engaged
in the revenue marine service of the United States.
"3d. That said commanding officer was duly commissioned
by the President of the United States, and mane such seizure
under the direction and by the authority of the Treasury
Department of the United States.
"4th. That said property so seized was delivered by said
commanding officer of said cutter to the United States marshal
of the distrit of Alaska, and is now within the jurisdiction of
this court.
"As conclusions of law the court finds that the plaintiff is
entitled to a decree of forfeiture against said vessel, her tackle,,
apparel, furniture, cargo, and the said 1679 fur-seal skins."
A motion in arrest was ified October 3, 1887, and a motion
for new trial and stay of proceedings, February 14, 18881
which was overruled by the court, February 21. An appeal
to this court was allowed and perfected March 23, 1888.
.lf. Calderon CJarlisle for appellant. _Mr. Williamrn
Johnson and f. Howell A. Powell filed briefs for same.

G.

.1!. Attorney General and _fr. Solicitor, General for the
United States.
M

. CHIEF JusTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.

We have already held'in Ex parte Cooper, ante, 472, that
the act of February 16, 1875, (c. 77, sec. 1, 18 Stat. 315,)
applies to appeals taken from decrees of the District Court of
the United States for the District of Alaska sitting in adniralty, and we are therefore limited upon this appeal to a
determination of the questions of law arising upon the record,
and to such rulings of the court, excepted to at the time, as
may be presented by a bill of exceptions prepared as in actions
at law. The libel and findings- in this case, as, in that, are
sufficient to sustain the jurisdiction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The certificate of the clerk is to the effect "that the foregoing copies of pleadings, papers and journal entries in the
cause of The United States v. The Schooner Sylvia Handy and
L. -. -Handy d- Co. have been by me compared with the
originals thereof as the same appear on file and of record in
this court, and that the same are full and true transcripts of
said original pleadings, papers and journal entries now in my
custody and control." No mention is made in this certificate
of a bill of exceptions, but we find in the record a paper so
styled filed March 23, 1888, and presumably signed on that
day. Two terms of the District Court of Alaska are provided
for in each year, one beginning on the first Monday of May
and the other on the first Monday of November. (23 Stat.
24, c. 53, sec. 3.). The trial of this cause took place on the
22d of September, 1887, and the decree was entered on that
day, and there is nothing in the record showing the authority
of the court to allow a bill of exceptions at the succeeding
term. Looking into the bill, however, the only exception that
we find there taken, is thus stated: "The defendants there
and then excepted to the ruling of the court and the law as
declared by the court, viz.:" and then follow the findings of
fact and conclusions of law made and filed by the court.
The bill of exceptions does not purport to contain all the
evidence, and no request was made for a finding of fact as to
the actual locality of the killing and the seizure in question.
Under these circumstances, the rulings in Exparte Cooper
are decisive of this case, and the decfee will therefore be
Affirmed.
Mr.. JuSTIO" FiELD dissented.

