OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

was assumed by the plaintiff in error; and no question can
arise as to the impairment by the act of 1881 of the obligation
of any contract.
The writs of error must be
Dismissed.
MR. JusTio BREwF did not sit in these cases or take any
part in their decision.

IRON SILVER 'MINING COMPANY v. MIKE AND
STARR GOLD AND SILVER MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No.2.

Argued November,20, 23, 1891.-Decided February 29, 1892.

The term "known vein" Rev. Stat. ยง 2333 refers to a vein or lode whose
eXistepce is known, as contradistinguished from one which has been
appropriated by location. The title to portions of a horizontal vein or
deposit, generally called a '.blanket vein," may be acquired under the
sections of the Revised Statutes concerning veins, lodes, etc,
In ejectment for the possession of a mine, the plaintiff claimed under a placer
patent, issued January 30, 1880, on an application made November 13,
1878, and entry and payment made February 21, 1879. The defendant
claimed under a location certificate of a lode issued to one Goodell, dated
March 10, and recorded March 11, 1879, reciting a location February 1,
1879. The defendant, to maintain its claim, offered the testimony of
several witnesses, which established beyond any doubt that in 1877, and
more than a year before any proceedings were initiated with reference
tothe placer patent, the grantors of defendant entered upon and ran a
tu reel some 400 feet in length into and through that ground which afterwhrds was patented as the placer tract; and that in running such tunnel
they intersected and crossed three veins, one of 'which was thereafter,
and in 1879, located as the Goodell vein or lode. The vein thus crossed
and disclosed by the tunnel was from seventy-five to seventy-eight feet
from its mouth, of about fifteen inches in width, with distinct walls of
porphyry on either side, a vein whose existence was obvious to even a
casual inspection by any one passing through the tunnel. At the trial
the court ruled that if the vein was known to the placer patentee at or
before entry and payment, although not known at the time of the application for patent, it was excepted from the property conveyed. Held,
(1) That this vein was a known vein at the time of the application for
the placer patent;

IRON SILVER CO. v. MIKE & STARR CO.

395

Statement of the Case.
(2) That the plaintiff was bound, to know of the existence of the tunnel,
and what an examination of it would disclose; '
(3) That it was a question for the jury whether there was sufficient
gold or silver within the vein to justify exploitation, and to be
properly a "known vein or lode" within the meaningof Rev.
Stat. ยง 2333;
(4) That th&time at which the vein or lode within the placer must be
known in order to be excepted from the grant of the placer patent is the time at which the application for that patent was made;
but that the plaintiff suffered no injury fr~m the error in- the
instruction of the court below in that respect, as the facts which
implied knowledge at the time oj the entry and payment existed
also at and before the date of the application;
(5) That the neglect of the parties who ran the tunnel to at once develop
the vein was of no account, as it appeared that there was a prevalent belief that a rich blanket vein was underlying the entire
country, and this was the object of pursuit by all;
(6) That the admission of evidence respecting that blanket vein was
immaterial, as the attention of the jury was directed by the cout
to the vein disclosed by the tunnel as the known vein upon which
the rights of defendant rested.
EjECMENT. The plaintiff in error was plaintiff below, and
claimed under a placer patent issued January 30, 1880, on an
application made November 30, 1878, and entry and payment
made February 21, 1879. The defendant claimed under a
location certificate of a lode dated March 10, and recorded
March 11, 1879, reciting a location February 1, 1879. This
case was argued with No. 3 (post, 430) on the 25th and 26th
of March, 1890; and on the 26th and 27th, No. 7 (post, 431)
was argued. On the 10th of November, 1890, the court made
the following order:

It is ordered that these cases be reargued before a full court,
and then as one case. And the attention of counsel is specially
directed to the discussion of the following questions:
First. What constitutes a "lode or vein" within the meaning of sections 2320 and 2333 of the Revised Statutes?
Second. What constitutes a "known lode or vein" within
the meaning of section 2333?
:Third. In what manner must the existence 6f such lode or
vein be indicated to enable the applicant for a placer patent

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

to describe it, and tender the price for it per acre required by
the government?
Fourth. Whether the existence of such lode or vein must
be known, and its purchase applied for, when the application
is made for the placer patent; and whether a lode or vdin will
be excluded from the patent, which is discovered after such
application and before the patent is issued?
Fifth. Whether evidence of the existence of lodes or veins
in the immediate vicinity of a placer claim is admissible to
the jury, as tending to show the existence of such lode or vein
within the boundaries of the claim? and
Sixth. Whether there was any legal evidence for the jury
of the vein or lode claimed by the defendant in error in the
first two cases, Nos. 6 and 7, [2 and 3] or by the plaintiffs in
error in the third case, No. 16 [7] ?
. Counsel pf the parties are requested to produce on the reargument models and diagrams showing the position and form
of the placer claim of the plaintiff -in error in Nos. 6 and 7,
[2 and 3] and defendant in error in No. 16, [7] and the position
in it of the alleged lodes of the defendant in error in Nos. 6"
and 7, [2 and 3] and plaintiffs in error in No. 16, [7] and also
of the tunnel alleged to run into the said claim, and also of
the adjoining land so far as may be necessary to a full undertanding of the questions involved.
The statutes referred to in this order and in the opinion
of the court, .post, will be found in the margin.' The three
S''he court

refers to the following sections of the Revised Statutes.
"SEC. 2320. Mining claims upon veins or lodes of quartz or other rock
in place bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper or other valuable
deposits heretofore located, shall be governed as to length along the vein
or lode by the customs, regulations and laws in force at the date of their
location. A mining claim located after the tenth day of May, eighteen hundred and seventy-two, whether located by one or more persons, may equal,
but shall not exceed, one thousand five hundred feet in length along the
vein or lode, but no.location of a mining claim shall be made until the discovery of the vein or lode within the limits of the claim located. No claim,
shall extend more than three hundred feet on each side of the middle of the
vein at the surface, nor shall any claim be limited by any mining regulation
to less than twenty-five- feet on each side of the middle of the vein at the

IRON SILVER CO. v. MIKE & STARR GO.

397

Statement of the Case.

cases were argued together in this court on the 20th and 23d
of November, 1891, and the case made by the pleadings and
arguments, in No. 2, as stated by the court was as follows:
surface, except where adverse rights existing on the tenth day of May,
eighteen hundred and seventy-two, render such limitation necessary. The
end lines of each claim shall be parallel to each other."
"SEc. 2325. A patent for any land claimed and located for valuable deposits may be obtained in the following manner: Any person, association
or corporation authorized to locate a claim under this chapter, having
claimed and located a piece of land for such purposes, who has, or have,.
complied with the terms of this chapter, may file in the'proper land office
an application for a patent, under oath, showing such coihpliance together
with a plat and field-notes of the claim or claims in common, made by or
under the direction of the United States Surveyor General, showing accurately the boundaries of the claim or claims, which shall be distinctly
marked by monuments on the ground, and shall post a copy of such plat,
together with a notice of such application for a patent, in a conspicuous
place on the land embraced in such plat previous to the filing of the application for a patent, and shall file an affidavit of at least two persons that
such notice has been duly posted, and shall file a copy of the notice in such
land office, and shall thereupon be entitled to a patent for the land in the
manner following: The register of the land office, upon the filing of such
application, plat, field-notes, notices, and affidavits, shall publish a notice
that such application has been made for the period of sixty days in a newspaper to be by him desighated as published nearest to such claim, and heshall also post such notice in his office for the same period. The claimant
at the time of filing this application, or at any time thereafter, within the
sixty days of publication, shall file with the register a certificate of the
United States Surveyor General' that five hundred dollars' worth of labor
has been expended on improvements made upon the claim by himself or
grantors; that the plat is correct, with such further description by such
reference to natural objects or permanent monuments as shall identify the
claim, and furnish an accurate description, to be incorporated in the patent.
At the expiration of the sixty days of publication the claimant thall file his
affidavit, showing that the plat and notice have been posted in a conspicuous place on the claim during such period of publication. If no adverse
claim shall have been filed with the register and the receiver of the proper
land office at the expiraion of the sixty days of publication, it shall be assumed that the applicant is entitled to a patent upon the payment, to the
proper officer of five dollars per acre, and that no adverse claim exists; and
thereafter no objection from third parties to the issuance of a patent shall
be heard, exceptfit be shown thdt the applicant has failed to comply with
the terms of this chapter."
"SEC. 2333. Where the same person, association or corporation is in possession of a placer claim, and also a vein or lode-included within the bown-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

On the 20th of February, 1885, plaintiff in error, plaintiff
below, filed its complaint in the District Court of Lake
County, Colorado, in which it alleged that on the 1st day of
January, 1884, it was the owner and in possession of a certain
tract of land, known as the William Mloyer placer, consisting
of 56.69 acres, the particular description of which was given;
and that on the 1st day of December, 1884, the defendant
wrongfully entered upon said premises, and ousted the plaintiff
from possession thereof, and still wrongfully fetained such
possession. The defendant answered that the patent for said
place was issued on the 30th day of January, 1880, and contained the following reservation: "That the grant hereby
made is restricted in its exterior limits to the boundaries of
the said lot No. 300, as hereinbefore described, and to any
veins or lodes of quartz or other rock in place bearing gold,
silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper or other valuable deposits,
which may have been discovered within said limits subsequent
to the date hereof, and not claimed or known to exist at the
date hereof. Second. That should any vein or lode of quartz
or other rock in place bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin,
copper or other valuable deposits be claimed or known to exist
within the above-described premises at the date hereof the
same is expressly excepted and excluded from these presents."
It also alleged that at the time of the location of the placer
daries thereof, application shall be made for a patent for the placer claim,
with the statement that it includes such vein or lode, and in such case a
patent shall issue for the placer claim, subject to the provisions of this
chal.er, includi ng such vein or lode, upon the payment of five dollars per
acre for such vein or lode claim, and twenty-five feet of surface on each side
thereof. Theremainder of the placer claim, or any placer claim not embracing any vein or lode claim shall be paid fbr at the rate of two dollars and
fifty cents per acre, together with all codtsof proceedings; and where a vein
or lode, such as is described in section twenty-three hundred and twenty,
is known to exist within the boundaries of a placer claim, an application
for a patent for such placer claim which does not include an application for
the vein or lode claim shall be*construed as a conclusive declaration that
the claimant of the placer claim has no right of possession of the vein or'
lode claim; but where the existence of a vein orilode in a placer claim is
not known, a patent for the placer claim shall convey all valuable mineral
and other deposits within the boundaries thereof."

IRON SILVER CO. v. MIIKE & STARR CO.

399

Opinion of the Court.

claim, and the survey thereof, and at the time of the application for the patent, there was a known lode, vein and deposit
of mineral within the boundaries of said placer, called the
Goodell lode, and that the patentee had knowledge of its
existence. On the application of the plaintiff the case was
removed to the Federal court, and there a replication was filed
denying the existence of any known lode or vein at or before
the issue of the patent. The case was tried before a jury in
November, 1885, which trial resulted in a verdict and judgment for the defendant, and thereupon th6 plaintiff brought
the case here on error.

31r. L. S. Dixon and .A&. Ashley Pond for plaintiff in
error. 11Tr. Ja!mes ffeJ-een and 3br. Frank If. Owers were
on their brief.
.Mr. T. 2. Patterson for defendant in error.
MRin.

JUSTICE

BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

This and two kindred cases have been before us for consideration for some time. They have been twice argued, the
reargument having been ordered by the court of its own
motion; and on the second argument, at the like instance,
very elaborate and complete models, maps and photographs
were prepared by the respective parties and presented for our
examination. The fact is, there wag an earnest inquiry as to
whether the court had not erred in its prior and repeated
ruling, that a known lode, as named in section 2333 of the
Revised Statutes, is something other than a located lode; and,
also, whether, in view of the disclosures made in this, as in
prior cases, of the existence of a body of mineral underlying
a large area of country in the Leadville mining district, whose
general horizontal direction' together with the sedimentary
character of the superior rock, indicated something more of
the nature of a deposit like a coal bed than of the vertical and
descending fissure vein, in which silver and gold are ordinarily
found, it did not become necessary to hold that the only pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

visions of the statute under which title to any portion of this
body of mineral, or the ground in which it is situated, can be
acquired, are those with respect to placer claims. Of course,
such conclusions would have compelled a revising of some
former opinions, and have wrought great changes in the
status of mining claims, in that district. Because of this we
have been very careful, and the investigations in these direc-

tions have been earnest and protracted.' It would serve'no
useful purpose to state all the arguments which have been
advanced and considered by us. It is enough to announce the
results. Our conclusions are, first, in respect to the matter of
the known vein, that the reasons so clearly stated by Mr.
Justice Field, speaking for the court irithe case of 1voyes v.
.antle, 127 U. S. 348, 358, are unanswerable, and forbid an
adjudication that the term "known vein" is to be taken as
synonymous with "located vein," and compel a reiteration of
the declaration heretofore made, that the term refers to a
vein or lode whose existence is.
known, as contradistinguished
from one which has, been appropriated by location; nd as to
the other matter, that the title to portions of this horizontal
vein. or deposit, "blanket" vein as it is generally called, may
be acquired under the sections concerning veins, lodes, etc.
The fact that so many patents have been obtained under these
sections, and that so many applications for patents are still
pending, is a strong reason against a new'and contrary ruling.
That which has been accepted as law and acted upon by that
mining community for such a length of time, should not be
adjudged wholly a mistake and put entirely aside because ot.
difficulties in the application of some minor provisions to the
peculiarities of this vein or deposit. With this explanation of
the reasons for the long delay in the decision of this case, we
pass to the special matters in controversy.
The questions presented by the pleadings to be tried were,
whether there was a vein or lode within the territorial boundaries of the, placer; aid if so, whether it was a known vein
or lode within the meaning of section 2333. The plaintiff, to
maintain its case, offered in evidence simply its patent and
other matters of .record, together with parol proof of bounda-

IRON SILVER CO. v. MIKE & STARR CO.

401

Opinion of the Court.

ries. By this record evidence it appeared that the application
for the placer patent was made on the 13th of November,
1878; that entry and payment were on the 21st of February,
1879; and that the patent was issued on January 30, 1880.
The location certificate of the Goodell lode was dated March
10 and recorded March 11, 1879, reciting a location on February 1, 1879. After the introduction of this testimony the
plaintiff rested, and by it a primna face title to the whole
placer claim was established.
The location of the Goodellode was some months after the application for the placer
patent. The defendant, to maintain its claim, offered the testimony of several witnesses, testimony which established beyond any doubt that in 1877, and more than a year before
any proceedings were initiated with reference to the placer
patent, the grantors of defendant entered upon and ran a
tunnel some 400 feet in length into and through that ground
which afterwards was patented as the placer tract; and that
in running such tunnel dhey ifftersected aid crossed three
veins, one of which was thereafter, and in 1879,-located as the
Goodell vein or lode. The vein thus crossed and disclosed by
the tunnel was from seventy-five to seventy-eight feet from
its mouth, of about fifteen inches in width, with distinct walls
of porphyry on either side, a vein whose existence was obvious
to even a casual inspection by any one passing through the
tunnel.
With this general statement, we notice the two or three
matters which are the special objects of contention; and, first,
it is said that the court erred in giving this instruction:
"If there was a lode in that Territory,-and it was known to
Moyer as an existing lode at this time-and by this time I
mean the first of February, 1879, or at the time these locations were said to have been made -and the lode had been
previously discovered by the locators of these claims, then
the placer patent is not sufficient to convey them. In other
words, they are excepted by the terms of this statute from
the provisions of the patent, and the owners of that title now
have no right to them."
In other words, the court ruled that if the vein was
VOL. OxLm- 26

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

known to the placer patentee at or before entry and payment,
although not known at the time of the application for patent,
it was excepted from the property conveyed by the patent.
Into this ruling the court was doubtless led by the language
of the patent, which in terms exempts all veins or lodes known
to exist at the date thereof; that is, the date of the issue of
the patent. In this respect there was error. The time at
which the vein or lode within the placer must be known in
order to be excepted. from the grant of the patent is, by section 2333, the time at which the application is made. Its language is: "An application for a patent for such placer claim,
which does not include an application for the vein or lode
claim, shall be construed as a conclusive declaration that the
claimant of the placer claim has no right of possession of the
vein or lode claim."
I,'om Silver .Mining Co. v. Reynolds,
124 U. S. 374; U.itec States v. rom Silver .Xining Co., 128
U. S. 673, 680. There was therefore a technical error in this
instruction of the court; but one which obviously wrought no
injury to the substantial rights of the plaintiff, because there
is not a scintilla of testimony, a suggestion even, that between
the year 1877 and the time of entry and payment there was
any work done or discovery made on the placer ground in
respect to the Goodell lode or in the tuniael. Everything that
was done had been done in 1877; everything that was known
at the time of the patent was known in 1877; so that the
error of date in the charge was one not affecting the substantial rights of the plaintiff.' If at the time of the entry there
was a known vein, there was the same vein and the same
knowledge in 1877, and before tMe application.
The second matter is this: Was there a known vein at the
time of the application for a patent, within the meai'ing of
section 2333? It was not then a located vein or lode, and the
case was evidently tried by the plaintiff upon the theory that
unless it was a located vein it was not a known vein, but that,
as we have seen, .i not a correct interpretation of the statute.
It is enough that it be known, and in this respect, to come
within the intent of the statute, it must either have been
known to the applicant for the placer patent or known to the

IRON SILVER CO. v. MIKE & STARR CO.

403

Opinion of the Court.

community generally, or else disclosed by workings and obvious to any one making a reasonable and fair inspection of the
premises for the purpose of obtaining title from the government. The proof abundantly establishes that within the last
description the vein was a known vein. The placer tract was
a small one of fifty-six acres. The tunnel ran 400 feet underneath its surface. At its mouth there was a large dump of
earth taken from it. No one had a right to enter that ground
as placer mining ground, unless he had made such an inspection as to enable him to make affidavit that it was adapted to
such mining. No examination could have been made without
disclosing the existence of this tunnel. That was a fact upon
the surface, obvious to the most casual inspection. No one
could be heard to say that he had examined that ground in
order to ascertain that it was suitable for placer mining, and
in such examination had not discovered the existence of this
tunnel. It was not a little excavation, with a few shovelfuls
of dirt at its entrance. The pile of dirt was evidence which
no one could ignore, that it was a long tunnel, running far
into the earth. It was in mining ground, as all this territory
was believed to be, and, therefore, an excavation likely to disclose veins. As an applicant for a placer patent was chargeable with notice of the existence of the tunnel, so, also, was he
chargeable with notice of whatever a casual inspection of that
tunnel would disclose. He would not be heard to say, I did
not enter and examine this tunnel, and, therefore, know nothing of the veins apparent in it. The government does not
permit a person to thus shut his eyes and buy. If there be a
vein or lode within the ground, it is entitled to double price
per acre for it and the adjacent fifty feet, and, with such interest in the price to be paid, it rightfully holds any applicant
for a placer patent chargeable with all that would be disclosed
by a casual inspection of the surface of the ground or of such
a tunnel. The applicant must be adjudged to have known
that which others knew, and which he would have ascer.tained if he had discharged fairly his duty to the government.
Surely under the testimony the jury was warr;Ynted in finding
that this was a known vein.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Another question is, whether this was such a vein bearing
gold, silver, cinnabar, lead or other valuable deposit as that a
discoverer could obtain title thereto under sections 2320 and
2325. It is undoubtedly true, that not every crevice in the
rocks, nor every outcropping on the surface, which suggests the
possibility of mineral, or which may, on subsequent exploration, be found to develop ore of great value, can be adjudged
a known vein or lode within the meaning of the statute. As
said by this court in the case of United States v. -Tior&Silver
-Mining Co., 128 U. S. 673, 683: "It is not enough that there
may have been some indications by outcroppings on the surface, of the existence of lodes or veins of rock in place bearing
gold or silver or other metal, to justify their designation as
' known ' veins or lodes. To meet that designation the lodes
or veins must be clearly ascertained, and be of such extent as
to render the land more valuable on that account, and justify
their exploitation." And, yet, in the case of 'ron Silver
.Mining Co. v. Chee&lnan, 116 U. S. 529, 536, this court sustained an instruction, as to what constitutes a lode or vein,
given in these words: "To determine whether a lode or vein
exists, it is necessary to define those terms; and, as to that, it
is enough to say that a lode or vein is a body of mineral, or
mineral-bearing rock, within defined boundaries in the general
mass.of the mountain. In this definition the elements are the
body of mineral or mineral-bearing rock and the boundaries;
with either of these things well established, very slight evidence
may be accepted as to the existence of the other. A body of
mineral or mineral-bearing rock in the general mass of the
mountain, so far as it may continue unbroken, and without
interruption, may be regarded as a lode, whatever the boundaries may be. In the existence of such body, and to the
extent of it, boundaries are implied. On the other hand, with
well-defined boundaries, very slight evidence of ore withiki such
boundaries will prove the existence of a lode. Such boun.daries constitute a fissure, and if in such fissure ore is found,
although at considerable intervals and in small quantities, it is
called a lode or vein."
. It is, after all, a question 'f fabt for a jury. It cannot be

-IRON

SILVER CO v. MIKE & STARR CO.

405

Opinion of the Court.

said, as a matter of law in advance, how much of gold or silver
must be found in a vein before it will justify exploitation and
be properly called a "known" vein. In this case the only
testimony offered upon this question was that by the defendant. John Hlaves, one of the parties who dug this tunnel,
testified that his brother was the territorial assayer of Colorado at the time; and that he assayed the ore from this vein
several times, and got from a trace to three-quarters of an
ounce of gold. Three-quarters of an ounce would be fifteen
dollars a ton. That of itself may not be decisive as to whether
the vein justified exploitation. And yet the proofs filed in the
Land Department, under which the patent to this entire placer
claim was obtained, show no such amount of mineral. What
is sufficient to obtain title fr9m the government is certainly
sufficient to demand consideration by a jury. We are told by
counsel for defendant that the Father de Smet mine at Deadwood produces ore that runs less than five dollars to the ton,
yet is of immense value and constantly worked, because of the
large quantity of this low-grade ore. So, here, the amount of
the ore, the facility for reaching and working it, as well as the
product per ton, are all to be considered in determining whether
the vein is one which justified exploitation and working. Beyond this the defendant produced Fred. G. Bulkley, a civil
and mining engineer, who testified to an examination of the
tunnel describing the various fissures and veins, and produced
before the -jury some of the ore taken from this vein. The
jury, therefore, had bofore them samples of the ore from the
vein, they were advised as to its dimensions, as to its general
course and direction, and as to the actual results of several
assays, and upon this testimony they found that it was a
known vein.
If it be said that the conduct of the parties who ran the
tunnel makes against the present contention, in that when
they reached this vein they did not stop and develop it, but on
the contrary proceeded with the tunnel, and even -after' they
had finished their work therein did not immediately commence
to develop it, a satisfactory answer is found in the testimony.
It appears that there was a prevalent belief that a rich blanket

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

vein was .underlying the entire country, and this was the object
of pursuit by all. The placer claim of the plaintiff was evidently not taken for placer mining, but because outside, and at
a short distance therefrom, it had workings on this blanket
vein; and believing that such vein at a slight dip extended
under the placer ground, title was sought to the latter in order
to prevent intr ^sion upon the former. In like manner they
who ran the tunnel, having a claim on adjacent ground, were
seeking the same blanket vein, which, wherever reached, had
been found of great thickness and richness. All minor matters
and less promising veins were subordinated to the search for
this one rich vein. The conduct of the grantors of both of
the parties was determined by a belief in the existence of this
underlying vein; but whether their belief in its existence was
well founded or not, whether their conduct in view of such
belief was wise or not, are matters which do not detract from
the credibility to be given to the testimony as to the width
and character of this vein. We are of opinion, therefore, that
the finding of the jury that this was a " known vein within
the scope of section 2333 was based upon sufficient testimony,
and cannot be disturbed.
It is urged that there was error in admitting testimony as to
this belief in an underlying vein, because the jury may have
found against the plaintiff on the ground of the supposed existence of such a vein. It may have been competent as explanatory of the conduct of the parties, as indicated above; but
whether this be so or not, the attention of the jury was directed
by the court to the vein disclosed by the tunnel as the known
vein upon which the rights of defendant rested. It made no
reference to this supposed underlying vein, but did say:,
"The evidence tends to prove that the discovery of mineral
in these claims was made in a tunnel some time in 1877, I
believe., The locations were not made on the surface of the
ground until 1879, about the first of February. That was
after the application for patent and before the entry, which
was about the 21st of February, 1879, and, of course, before
the patent was issued.
"If there was a lode in that Territory, and it was known to

IRON SILVER CO. v. MIKE & STARR CO.

407

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

by this time I
Moyer as an existing lode at this time -and
mean the first of February, 1879, or at the time these locations
the lode had been prewere said to have been made -and
viously discovered by the locators of these claims, then the
placer patent is not sufficient to convey them."
And then, in closing the charge, it added-:
"I think that is all, gentlemen, that thee is in the case. I
do not know that it is necessary to repeat it again - that the
plaintiff's title must prevail unless it appears to you from the
evidence that there was a lode existing in the ground, and that
[oyer knew it at the time of making his entry and obtaining his
patent, and that a location had been made upon it in a general way , that there was a certificate made; that there was a
discovery of mineral within the claims; and that the lode was
staked upon the surface and the like."
As there was no pretence of any discovery of this supposed
underlying vein, obviously the attention of the jury was
directed solely to the vein disclosed in the tunnel.
These are all the questions we deem important, and in the
record there appears no substantial error. The judgment
will therefore be
_Aflrme.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD, with whom concurred MR. JusTicE- Il
and M . JUSvTIC BnowN, dissenting.

-

i.A,

I am unable to agree with my associates in the disposal of
this 'ease. The decision, and the opinion upon which it is
founded, will do much, in my judgment, to weaken the security of patents of the United States for mireral lands, and
leave them open to attack and overthrow upon mere surmises,
notions, and loose gossip of the neighborhood which ought
not to interfere with any rights of pioperty resting upon the
solemn record of the government.
The Iron Silver Mining Company, the plaintiff below and
the plaintiff in error here, is a corporation created under the
laws of New York, and the defendant, the Mike and Starr
Gold and Silver Mining Company, is a corporation also created

OCTOBER TERINf, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

under the laws of that State. The present action is in form
one to recover an alleged mining lode claim a little over ten
acres in extent, lying within the boundaries of a placer claim
known as the William Moyer placer claim, of which the plaintiff is the owner; but it is in fact an action to determine the
right of the defendaht to a patent of the United States for
that lode under proceedings taken in assumed conformity with
section 2326 of the Revised Statutes. It was commenced in
a District Court of Colorado, and on application of the
plaintiff was removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States.
The placer claim embraces fifty-six acres and a fraction of
ak acre, a full description of which, by metes and bounds, is
given in the.complaint. It is designated and known in the
public surveys of mineral land as lot No. 300. A patent of
the United States for it was issued to William Moyer on the
30th of January, 1880. The application for the patent was
filed in the local land office on the 13th of November, 1878,
and the claim was entered for patent and paid for on the 1st
day of February, 1879.
The patent contains several ekpress reservations or condi
tions, among them these two:- we quote their, language
from the instrument:
"First. That the grant hereby made is restricted in its
exterior limits to the boundaries of the said lot No. 300, as
hereinbefore described, and to any veins or lodes of quartz or
othet rock in place bearinj gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin,
copper or other valuable deposits which may hereafter be discovered within said limits, and which are not claimed or
known to exist at the date hereof.
ISecond. That should any vein or lode of quartz or other
rock in place bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copperv
or other valuable deposits, be claimed or known to exist within
the above-described premises. at the date hereof, the same is
expressly excepted and excluded from these presents."
The patentee, Moyer, on the 24th of February, 1880, executed a quit claim deed of the premises to William H. Stevens
and Levi Z. Leiter; and on the 6th of March following these

IRON SILVER CO. v. MIK

& STARR CO.

409

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

parties conveyed the same to the plaintiff, and by its direction
and at its cost, large and expensive works were subsequently
erected on the premises for the development of the mine and
the extraction of the precious metals.
The defendant in answer to the action, besides denying the
right of the plaintiff to the possession of the premises, relies
upon two defences - the acquisition of a lode claim known as
the Goodell lode from the original locators, and the acquisitioi
of a lode claim known as the Thomas Starr lode. In stating
the first defence it recites the exceptions stated to the patent,
and sets up "that at the time of the location of said placer
claim, and the survey thereof, and at the time of the application for patent, and at the time of the entry of said land
thereunder, and at the date of the issuance and granting of
said patent, a lode, vein, and deposit of mineral, of quartz and
other rock in place, carrying carbonates of lead and silver,
was known to exist and was claimed within the boundaries of
said William Moyer placer claim, survey No. 300, and that
the fact that said vein was claimed and did exist within
said premises was known to the said William Moyer, the patentee of said claim, at all the times hereinbefore mentioned; "
that said vein was known and claimed as the Goodell lode;
and that on the first day of February, A.D. 1879, Maurice
_Hayes, John Hayes, George 0. Gardner, and R. E. Goodell,
then citizens of the United States, went upon the premises
and sunk a shaft and run a tunnel therein, which uncovered
and exposed said vein, lode, and deposit; that they thereupon
proceeded to locate the same as a lode claim, by putting up a
notice containing the name of the lode, the date of the location, and their own names as locators, and marked the surface
boundaries by posts and afterwards caused a location certificate to be filed in the office of the clerk and recorder of the

county, containing the name of the location, the names of the
locators, the date of location, and the number of feet claimed
in length on each side of the centre of the discovery shaft;
whereby the said locators became the owners of and entitled
to the possession of said lode, the title to which aft'erwards by
several mesne conveyances became. vested in the defendant.

OCTOBER TERATI, 1891.
Dissiuting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

In stating the second defence the defendant sets up that the
claim upon which it is now at work is a well defined vein of
quartz bearing silver and other valuable metals and that the
same was discovered by M,aurice Hayes, John Hayes and
Thomas Starr, on the 9th of November, 1877, and immediately
afterwards, on the discovery of the lode, the locators caused a
shaft to be sunk to the depth of more than ten feet below the
surface, and within three months thereafter located the same
by marking the boundaries with substantial stakes, and by filing in the office of the clerk and recorder of the county, in
which the claim is situated, a certificate of its location, containing the name of the lode, the names of the locators, the
date of location, the number of feet in length claimed on each
side of the centre of the discovery shaft, and the general
course and direction of the claim, and that in said location
certificate and upon the location stake the same was called the
Thomas Starr lode, and that afterwards by various mesne conveyances the property became vested in the defendant. No
evidence was offered on the trial with reference to this Thomas
Starr lode set up in the second defence, and no certificate of
its location was produced; it may, therefore, be considered as
out of the case. The controversy relates only to the Goodell
lode claim set up in the first defence. The location certificate
of this lode claim bears date on the 10th day of March, 1870,
and recites that the claim was located on the 1st of February,
1879. The averment that its original locators, on the 1st of
February, 1879, went upon the premises and sunk a shaft and
ran a tunnel thereon, which uncovered and exposed the vein,
lode and deposit, and that they thereupon proceeded to locate
the same, was not supported by the evidence produced. The
location of the claim was not preceded by the discovery of
the existence of the precious metals within it. The statute of
the United States, respecting mining claims upon veins or lodes
of quartz or other rock in place, bearing gold and silver, declares that "no location of a mining claim shall be made until
the discovery of the vein or lode within the limits of the claim
located." IRev. Stat. see. 2320. One of the locators, John Hayes,
was examined as a witness, and testified that he helped the

IRON SILVER CO. v. MIKE & STARR CO.

411

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

surveyor to survey the lode claims - the Goodell and Gardner'
claims -and drive down the stakes; that afterwards he filed
the certificate of location; that he knew the discovery shafts of
the claims, and had been in them; that there was no discovery
of any vein or lode of valuable mineral deposits within them;
and that those shafts were sunk in 1879. And the tunnel alleged to have been then run was commenced and completed
years before.
On the 11th of March, 1879, the locators filed with the
county clerk and recorder of Lake County -the county within which the alleged lode lies-a location certificate of the
lode claim, and on the 13th of April, 1881, the defendant,
which had succeeded to their interest, made application for a
patent for the same. The plaintiff below and in this court,
the Iron Silver Mining Company, filed in the land offico its
adverse claim to the application for a patent under assumed
conformity with the provisions of section 2325 of the Revised
Statutes, and this action is brought by that company to determine, as between the parties, the riglit to the possession of
the land embracing this alleged lode in pursuance of section
2326. The case was tried before a jury, and the only direct
evidence offered to show the existence of a known vein or
lode bearing gold or silver within the. placer claim was contained in the testimony as to the tunnel run, called the Mike
-tunnel, and discoveries made in it. It was shown that the
tunnel was commenced in January; 1877, and completed on
the 24th of April following. It extended 400 feet, but it disclosed within it only veins of decomposed porphyry and manganese iron. The statement that it intersected and crossed
three veins is only correct in that they were veins of that
character. There was no vein or lode of gold or silver, bearing rock found in the tunnel, and there is an erroneous impression conveyed by the opinion of the court in that respect.
The material evidence in the record as to what was found in
the tunnel is given in the note below from which it will appear, as stated above, that only veins of decomposed porphyry
and manganese iron were found there. No gold or silver
was discovered in it, except in one instance, ahd then merely a

0OTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

trace of gold at about seventy-five feet from the mouth of the
tunnel, from which only three-quarters of an ounce was obtained. This discovery did not establish the existence "of a
lode, vein or deposit of mineral in quartz or other rock in
place carrying carbonates of'lead and silver," as averred in the
answer of the defendant. It did not of itself constitute a
vein or lode in gold or silver bearing rock; it was loose gold
and was not sufficient, of itself, to induce further work upon
the tunnel, or even to lead to a location of a mining claim in
it. From the completion of the tunnel up to the time when
this case was on trial, extending over eight years and a half,
no work was done upon the tunnel, nor was any attempt
made to use it, or to develop any pretended mine in it. By
the law there must have been a location upon the vein in it,
if there was one, before any right to such vein could be initiated; and had such location been made, the right thus acquired was lost and forfeited by abandonment years before
this action was commenced. But as I shall show hereafter,
the niere indication or presence of gold or silver is not sufficient to establish the existence of a lode. The mineral must
exist in such quantities as to justify expenditure of money for
the development of the mine and the extraction of the mineral. It would create surprise among miners to be told that
if a trace of loose gold, such as is shown here, was found at
any one spot in a tunnel leading to a placer claim, .it would
establish the existence of a vein or lode in the placer claim,
and form the basis of a proceeding to despoil a purchaser
from the patentee, years after the purchase, of a large portion
of its mining property.
Evidence was also offered against the objection of the plaintiff to show that there were other lodes in the vicinity of the
placer claim of the plaintiff and also of the placer claim of
Wells and Moyer; and also that parties in the neighborhood
believed-not that they knew - that there was a vein or lode
lying under those placer claims, and also of conversations in
1877 with one Stevens, who acquired his interest by purchase
with one Leiter from the patentee more than a year after the
patent was issued, as to his opinion of the existence of mineral

IRON SILVER CO. v. MIKE & STARR CO.

413

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

at a place where he had at the time men at work, and "'underlying all the ground there;" but it was not shown that the
place thus loosely designated embraced the premises in controversy.1
1 NOTE. - There were four witnesses examined as to what was found
in the Mike tunnel. All that is important in their testimony bearing upon
that point is here given.

1. Baldwin.
Mr. Baldwin examined the Mike tunnel with reference to whether there
was a vein disclosed in it, and testified that there were several veins exposed in the course of the tunnel; that at a point about seventy-five feet in
from the mouth, was disclosed a lode with porphyry walls, or, at least, a
porphyry wall on the west side, dipping to the east, and a vein showing
decomposed porphyry with some pieces of iron at different points in the
lode, and that there were other lodes found further in the tunnel, but that
he never was in the tunnel until about a month before giving his testimony.
2. M1orris.
Mr. Morris knew the Mike tunnel, and that there were discoveries of
lodes in that tunnel, three, he guessed, and testified as to the character of
the filling of the largest vein, that it was decomposed porphyry, and manganese iron, and did not know whether it ever carried any mineral or not,
of his own knowledge; that the second vein was about seventy or eighty
feet from the first one; and being asked what was found in the vein that
indicated that it'was a vein - what kind of mineral - answered decomposed porphyry and soft material- some iron.
3. Hayes.
Mr. Hayes testified that he discovered in the Mike tunnel a vein; that he
struck the pick into it himself, about the 15th or 16th of February, 1877,
about seventy-five feet from its mouth; that it was about eighteen inches
wide, and was decomposed quartz and a clay and vein matter; that he
got several colors of gold in it, and his brother, who was the territorial
assayer of Colorado at that time - but dead now - had it assayed several
times, and he _ot from a trace to three-quarters of an ounce of gold in it.
He also testified that four veins were discovered - the one 'nearest was
about two huh'ed feet from the mouth of the tunnel-and, in answer to
the question what kind of vein it was, said: It is similar to thle first one.
Well, the first
one is more decomposed, the porphyry, the walls of it; this
last one we have got here is what we call block porphyry -more
solid
porphyry.
On cross-examination he said it was a vein existing in the porphyry decomposed matter between porphyry, decomposed quartz and shale.

OCTOBER TERML,

1891.

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

At the close of the testimony in the case the plaintiff moved
the court to instruct the jury to find a verdict in its favor, on
the grounds, among others, that the Goodell claim of the
defendant was not located or recorded until after the application was made for the patent of the William YMoyer placer
claim, and that there had not been a discovery in the shafts
of the defendant of any vein or lode of quartz or other rock
in place bearing any valuable deposits. But the court denied
this motion, and to its denial exception was taken.
Among the instructions to the jury the plaintiff then reouested
the court to give the following:
4. Fred G. Bulkley.
Mr. Bulkley testified as to an examination of the Mike tunnel. He said:
"The first material which the tunnel encounters as it passes into the hill is
a loose wash and gravel, that extends for a distance of about twenty-five
feet to thirty feet, and the next material encountered is white rock, or
rather rock the surface of which has about the same slope as the surface
of the hill. The rock that is first encountered is porphyry, and it is rather
shattered and somewhat soft, and as depth is gained it gains a hardness
until- at the depth of 78 feet it is found to be hard and in place, or, in
fact, before reaching that point, but unquestionably so at the point 78 feet
from the mouth of the tunnel. . . . Lying upon the foot-wall there is a
streak of clay which is perfectly continuous, so far as the developments
show. That clay is from an inch to six inches thick; it is hard, leathery
clay, and. one can catch hold of a projecting portion and pull it down as
one would the bark from a tree. It is hard and tough. Next to that there
is a mixed mass of iron-stained porphyry and clay, the iron having a thicknessiof from eight to twelve or fourteen inches. Next to that, as shown
by th# red mark in the sketch of which I am speaking, is a band of iron
at a thickness of from two to six or eight inches."
Cross-Examination.

Q.

Mr. Bulkley, what kind of a vein is that that you have described in
the tunnel? - A. I haven't described it as a vein. In speaking of it I used
the term vein inadvertently once, because, while it possesses such characteristics of a vein as will be determined upon inspection, other characteristics, I think, would have to be determined by analysis. For instance, it
has the general indication of lateral extent and extent in depth-that is,
it has a very considerable lateral extent in the direction of the strike and
dip. The material which is enclosed in it-I
have brought a piece with me
- it looks very much as though it would carry silver, and possibly some
gold, but tospeak positively upon-that point is more than I can do. I venture to say it looks like it, and-most any miner will agree with me.

IRON SILVER CO. v. MIKE & STARR CO.

415

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

1. That the terms "vein or lode" and "vein or lode claim,"
as used in section 2333 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, mean and refer to vein or lode mining claims which
have been discovered, located and recorded within the boundaries of a placer claim before the time when the application
is made for the placer patent. And unless the jury find from
the evidence that the alleged Goodell lode claim of defendant
had been discovered, located, and recorded in accordance with
the law governing the location and acquiring title to miling
claims before the time when the application was made for the
said placer patent, the said lode claim is not excepted or excluded from the grant of the said placer patent, and does not
come within the reservation clause in said patent.
2. That a lode -claim lodated or attempted to be located
within the exterior boundaries of a placer claim a.t any time
after the time of making the application for patent to the
placer claim gives no right or title; any lode so located is not
reserved from the grant of the placer patent. This rule applies
to all lode claims located between the time of the application
for the placer patent and the making of the entry and the
issuing of the patent.
3. That to constitute a valid title to a lode mining claim the
locators of such claim are required to make a discovery of a
vein, lode or -ledge carrying valuable deposits, within the
boundaries of such lode claim, before the same is located and
recorded, and if such discovery is not made the location is void
and creates no title or right of possession in the attempted
locators; and if the said defendants made no such discovery
of a vein, or lode, or valuable deposit within the boundaries of
the said Goodell lode claim, then they acquired no title or
right to possession whatever by virtue of their pretended
location.
But the court refused to give either of these instructions,
and to its refusal to each one an exception was taken at the
time.
The jury found for the defendant. To reverse the judgment
entered upon its verdict the case was brought to this court on
writ of error.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

The contention between the parties to this action is as to
which of them is entitled to the possession of the land embracing the alleged lode claimed by the defendant., In the case of
the same plaintiff Against Campbell and others, recently
decided, (135 U. S. 286,) it was held that to an application
for a patent for a lode claim within the boundaries of a
patented placer claim, the holder of the patent was not bound
under the statute to interpose any objections he might have;
that such objections were required only from parties seeking a
right to a patent as against the lode claimant, and, not from
one who already had a patent. 'But before that decision was
made the plaintiff, here had interposed objections to the application of the lode claimant, setting up his adverse claim to
the premises-under the placer patent; and the present action
has followed that proceeding, the plaintiff supposing that it
was bound, in order to protect its rights, to interpose and set
up its adverse claim.
Assuming that the plaintiff is thereby estopped from denying its obligation to contest the right of the lode claimant in
this way - which, may well be doubted - I proceed to consider the questions presented for a reversal of the judgment
obtained.
The presumption in favor of its validity attends the placer
patent, as it does all patents of the gbvernment of any interest in the public lands, which they purport to convey. So
potential and efficacious is such presumption that it has been
frequently held by this court, that if under any circumstances
in the case the patent might have been rightfully issued, it
will be presumed as against any collateral attack, that such
circumstances existed. Smelting .Xining Co. v. -Eemp, 104
U. S. 636, 646. As was said by the Circuit Court in the
Eurem Case, a patent for a mining claim is iron-clad in its
potency against all mere speculative inferences. 4 Sawyer,
302. The burden of proof therefore rested upon the defendant
to show affirmatively that it was entitled, as against that patent, to the possession of the lode claim, on the ground that
the lode was excepted from the patent in express terms.
A lode claim of the same richness as a placer claim is of

IRON SILVER CO. v. NIKE & STARR CO.

417

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

much greater value than the difference in price per acre fixed
by the government. By the depth to which such a lode usually
extends a much larger quantity of mineral is obtained from it
than from a placer claim covering the same extent of surface
ground; it is, therefore, as a general rule, far more remunerative. As the lode claim of the defendants in this case embraces
a little over ten acres, it is difficult to believe that the applicant
for a placer claim embracing it, if it was known to exist at the
time, would have neglected to apply for it, when it could have
been obtained at the trifling expense of twenty-six dollars.
The possibility of- others invading the placer boundaries, ifwithin them there was a known vein or lode, would naturally
have been the occasion of much uneasiness to the owners of
the placer claim, to avoid which we may well suppose they
would readily have incurred expenses vastly above the government price of the lode claim. Clear and convincing proof
would seem, therefore, to be necessary to overcome the presumption thus arising, that the applicant for the placer patent
did not know at the time of the existence of apy such lode.
Especially would this seem to be required where, as in the.
present case, knowledge of such lode by the patentee is averred
only after the mine patented has passed into other hand, and
extensive explorations have been made and large expenditures
incurred in developing it, in supposed possession of the title to
the entire property.
The exceptions to the operation of the patent are founded
upon section 2333 of the Revised Statutes, which is as follows:
" Where the same person, association or corporation is iti
possession of a-placer claim, and also a vein or lode included
within the boundaries thereof, application shall be made for a
patent for the placer claim, with the statement that it includes
such vein or lode, and in such case a patent shall issue for the
placer claim, subject to the provisions of this chapter, including
such vein or lode, upon the payment of five dollars per acre
for such vein or lode claim, and -twenty-five feet of surface on
each side thereof. The remainder of the placer claim, or any
placer claim not embracing any vein or lode claim, shall be
VOL. cxLm-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

paid for at the rate of two dollars and fifty cents per acre, together with all costs of proceedings; and where a vein or lode,
such as is described in section twenty-three hundred and twenty,
is known to exist within the boundaries of a placer claim, an
application for a patent for such placer claim which does not
include an application for the vein or lode claim shall be construed as a conclusive declaration that the claimant of the
placer claim has no right of possession of the vein or lode
claim; but where the existence of a vein or lode in a placer
claim is not known, a patent for the placer claim shall convey
-all valuable mineral and other deposits within the boundaries
thereof."
This section, as we have said on more than one occasion,
makes provision for three distinct classes of cases:
1. Where one applies for a placer patent, who is at the
time in the possession of a vein or lode included within its
boundaries, he must state the fact, and 'then, on payment of
the sum required for a vein or lode claim and twenty-five feet
on each side of it at $5.00 per acre, and $2.50 an acre for the
placer claim, a patent will issue to him covering both claim
and vein or lode.
2. Where a vein or lode such as is described in a previous
section of the Revised Statutes -that is, of quartz or other
rock in place bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper
or, other valuable deposits -is known to exist at the time
within the boundaries of the placer claim, the application for a
patent therefor, whiich does not also include an application for
the vein or lode, will be construel a's a conclusive declaration
that the claimant of the placer claim has no right of possession
to the vein or lode.
3. Where the existence of a vein or lode in a placer claim
is not kn6wn at the time of the application for a patent, that
instrument will convey all valuable mineral and other deposits
within its bcundaries. I,'on Silrer Xining Co. v. Reynolds,
124 U. S. 374, 3S2; also Reynolds v. b'on Silver fining Co.,
116 U. S. 687, 696.
In Iron Silver 3fining Co. v. Reynoldg, 116 tU. S. 687, 692,
the court, after stating the substance of this section, added

IRON SILVER CO. v. -MIKE & STARR CO.

419

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

that it was not easy to define the words "known to exist" in
the act, stating that it was not necessary to inquire in that
case whether this knowledge must be traced to the applicant
for the patent or whether it was sufficient that the existence
of the lode was generally known; and what kind of evidence
was necessary to prove this knowledge, and observing that it
was perhaps better that these questions should be decided as
they arose. They did not arise there because the court took
the evidence from the jury on the ground that the defendants
were trespassers.
When the same case was again before the court at October term 1887, it was expressly held that the statute did
not except veins or lodes "claimed or known -to exist" at the
date of the patent, but only such as were "known to exist,"
and that it fixed the tine at which such knowledge was to be
had as that of the application for the patent.
ron Silver
Jf3ning Co. v. Reynolds, 124 U. S. 374, 382. The same doctrine was declared in United States v. Silver fining Co., 128
U. S. 673, 680.
To bring, therefore, a vein or lode of quartz or other rock
in place bearing precious metals within the exceptions of the
statute, and of course within those of the patent to the extent
to which they are operative, the vein or lode, according to the
decisions referred to, must have been known to eist at the
ine ajpicatian was made for the patent. The applicant
could not, of course, speak of discoveries not then made;.necessarily, his knowledge must have been limited to the time of
his application. The court below, however, held that it was
sufficient if the lode in controversy was known to exist at the
date of the patent, and not at the date of the application for
it. It stated expressly that it would not enter into any consideration of the validity of the exceptions made in the patent,
whether they conformed to the statute or not, but would follow the patent, and so ruled during the whole trial, both in
the admission of testimony and in the instructions to the jury,
giving them to understand in the most explicit terms that if a
lode was discovered and a location made before the issue of
the patent for a placer claim, that lode was excepted from

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion:' Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

the patent, although such discovery and location were made
subsequent to the application for the patent.
In thus holding there was a plain departure from the
express and repeated decisions of this court, for which error
alone the judgment ought to be reversed. The ruling could
not have failed to mislead the jury, and to direct their attention to matters not properly open for their consideration. But
independently of this error, there were material objections to
evidence admitted on the trial to establish the existence of the
supposed lode even upon the theory of the court below as to
the time when such existence must have been known, and to
its instructions upon portions of such. evidence, and to its
refusal to order a verdict for the plaintiff upon the grounds
stated.
At the outset of this case it becomes important to determine
what is meant by a " known lode" within the purview of the
statute, which, if not applied for by the patentee, is excepted
from the patent; and also when a right to such a lode is
initiated by a claimant, and to that consideration I will now
direct attention. And first, what is meant by a lode or vein
of q6artz or other rock in place bearing gold or silver ? The
first reported case in which a definition was attempted is the
Eureka Case, 4 Sawyer, 302, 311. j The court, after observing that the word was not always used in the same sense in
scientific works on geology and mineralogy, and by those
actually engaged in the working of mines, said: "It is diffi'4ult to give any definition of the term as understood and used
in the acts of Congress which will not be subject to criticism.
A fissure in the earth's crust, an opening in its rocks and
strata made by some force of nature, in which the mineral is
deposited; would seem to be essential to the definition of a
lode in the judgment of geologists. But, to the practical
miner, the fissure and its walls are only of importance as indicating the boundaries within which he may look for and
reasonably expect to find the ore he seeks. A continuous
body of mineralized rock, lying within any other well-defined
boundaries on the earth's surface and under it, would equally
constitute, in his eyes, a lode. We are of opinion, therefore,

IRON SILVER CO. v. MIKE & STARR CO.

421

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

that the term, as used in the acts of Congress, is applicable to
any zone or belt of mineralized rock lying within boundaries
learly separating it from the neighboring rooks." Aid this
court in I'on, Silver .Xining (Jo. v. Cheesman, 116 U. S. 529,
53 , followed this citation by observing: "This definition has
received repeated commendation in other cases, especially in
Stevens v. Williams, 1 McCrary, 480, 488, where a shorter definition by Judge Hallett, of the Colorado Circuit Court, is
also approved, to wit : 'In general it may be said that a lode
or vein is a body of mineral, or mineral body of rock, within
defined boundaries, in the general mass of the mountain."'
To constitute, therefore, a known lode, within the meaning
of the statute, a belt or zone of mineralized -rock lying within
boundaries clearly separating it from the neighboring rock,
must not only be ascertained, but must be so far developed or
defined as to be capable of measurement. A right to a lode
can only be initiated by location, and the statute declares that
no location can be made until the discovery of a lode or vein
bearing metal. And to embrace the lode within the patent
of a placer claim the applicant must, if it be known, pay for
it at the rate of five dollars per acre. But he cannot pay any
sum, or offer to pay so as to be effectual, until he can ascertain the number of acres contained in the lode claim desired,
that is, until the ground can be measured. Nor could the
officers of the land department accept any sum from the
applicant until such measurement, upon a mere speculative
opinion as to the extent of the supposed lode. In Sullivan v.
I-ron, Silver Xfining Co., 109 U. S. 550, this question was
considered by the Circuit Court, but was not passed upon by
this court, it not being deemed to necessarily arise on the
pleadings. The plaintiff in that case had brought an action
upon a patent for a placer claim. The defendant had located
within it a lode claim after the patent was issued, and he set
up in defence that the lode was known to the patentee at the
time of the application for the patent, and not having been
embraced in it was by the statute excluded from the patent.
The plaintiff demurred to this answer, and the court held it
was insufficient in not averring that the lode had been dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

covered and located or recorded at the time of the application.
But this court, without passing upon the necessity of such
location or record, held that as a matter of pleading it was
sufficient to aver that the lode was known to exist by the
patentee at the time of his application for a patent, and was
not included in his application, observin g that, by the elementary rules of pleading, facts may be pleaded according to
their legal effect, without setting forth the particulars that
lead to it. The question as to what constitutes a known lode
remained, therefore, unaffected by that decision.
For the reasons stated above it would seem that not merely
must a discovery of mineral be made to constitute a known
lode within the meaning of the statute, but that such development of its extent must be made as to enable the applicant
to comply with the law in tendering the requisite price. The
Circuit Judge, Mr. McCrary, who rendered the judgment of
the Circuit Court, thus reversed on a point of pleading, felt
that the construction placed by him upon the statute was the
only one which made it consistent with itself or practicable in
application.
"The first thing," he observes, "that strikes us as important in the construction of this language [of section 2323] is
that we are referred back to section 2320 for a description of
the vein or lode which is referred to, and which is not to pass
to the patentee, unless he has complied with this provision of
the statute: 'Where a vein or lode, such as is described in
section 2320.
What sort of vein or lode is described in
section 2320 ?
"By reference to that section, we see that it relates entirely
to vein or lode claims, and the description which it contains is
a descripion of the metes and bounds of a vein or load claim,
.
not the lode simply, but a lode claim; one that has
been located, which has boundaries, which has been developed; it gives us its dimensions; it declares it shall have been
located; it says it shall be a claim in whiuh there has been a
discovery of mineral, etc.
"I am of the opinion that a vein or lode that has never
been claimed, that has not been located, that has not been

IRON SILVER CO. v. 'MIKE & STARR CO.

423

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

marked out by metes and bounds, and in which there has been
no actual development, or, to use the language of the statute,
'discovery of a vein or lode within the limits of the claim
located,' is not a vein or lode such as is described in section
2320. The description must refer to these things; the section
describes nothing else, and to its description we are plainly
referred. It follows that the language . . . must refer to
a vein or lode which has been located, which has boundaries,
which has a locality, which has had some sort of development,
or else it cannot be such a vein or lode as is described in section 2320." 5 McCrary, 274, 277, 278.
1
The case of iVuyes v. X2
/atle, 127 U. S. 348, does not, when
properly understood, militate, as supposed, against this view.
The court in its language there used had reference to the
rights of parties other than the applicant for the placer patent, when it said that the statute did not apply to lodes or
veins within the boundaries of a placer claim which had been
previously located under the laws of the United States, and
were, in the possession of the locators, and could apply only to
lodes or veins not taken up and located so as to become the
property of others. The statute has reference to cases where
the same person, association or corporation is in possession
both of the placer claim and of the vein or lode within its
boundaries. In such cases, if the lode claim is known to the
applicant to exist, he must designate it in his application; but
it cannot, of course, be known to him to exist, whatever his
conjectures may be,- until the lode is discovered and located so
as to enable him to state its existence and 'extent in his application for a patent of the placer claim, and to tender .the price
per acre required.
If there be any variance between these views and those
expressed in ITro& $ilver Xilning Co. v. Reynol.s, 124 U. S.
374, 384, as to the manner in which knowledge of the existence
of a lode within the boundaries of a placer claim may be
obtained, it is because of a more careful consideration of the
subject in later years than formerly, and of larger experience
in mining cases.
As stated above, there can be no location of a lode or vein

OCTOBER TERM12,

1891.

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

until the discovery of precious metals in it has been had. And
then it is not every vein or lode which may show traces of
gold or silver that is exempted from sale or patent of the
ground embracing it, but those only which possess these
metals in such quantity as to enhance the value of the land
and invite the expenditure of time and money for their development. No purpose or policy would be subserved by excepting from sale and patent veins and lodes yielding no remunerative return for labor expended upon them. Such exceptions
would only be productive of embarrassment to the patentee,
without any benefit to others. In a suit brought by the
United States to cancel certain placer claims against the plaintiff in this case, alleging, among other things, that the patents
were obtained by false and fraudulent representations, that
the land contained no known veins or lodes of quartz or other
rock in place bearing gold or silver or other metals, the-court,
speaking of the evidence in the case as insufficient to sustain
the allegation, said: "It is not enough that there may have
been some indications, by outcroppings on the surface, of the
existence of lodes or veins of rock in place bearing gold or
silver or other metal to justify their designation as ' known'
veins or lodes. To meet that designation the lodes or veins
must be clearly ascertained and be of such extent as to render
the land more valuable on that account, and justify their
exploitation."
Uni'ted States v. Iron Silver Xfining Co., 128
U. S. 673, 683. See to the same purport Deqffeback v. Hawke,
115 U. S. 392, 404, and Colorado Coal Co. v. United States,
123 U. S. 307, 328.
In the case at bar, as stated above, the alleged location of
the lode of the defendant was not preceded by the discovery
of any precious metals within it. There was, therefore, in
fact no lode to locate, and of course no location initiated or
measurement possible. (Rev. Stat. 2320.) No weight ought
to be given to a defence resting upon such a basis. The court
below should have insisted upon proof of the discovery of
mineral in the alleged lode claim of the defendant, or have
directed a verdict as moved in favor of 'the plaintiff. And
when the motion was refused, if the views I have expressed of

IRON SILVER CO. v. MIKE & STARR 00.

425

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

what constitutes a kndwn lode within the meaning of. the
statute, and as to the knowledge of such lode at the time of the
application for the patent, be correct, the instructions as
refused should have been given, and their refusal was error
for which the judgment should he reversed.
Much of the evidence received at the trial was also subject
to serious objections. To show that the alleged lode of the
defendant was known to exist before the patent was issued,
the court below allowed evidence, against the objection of the
plaintiff, to be introduced, that there were other lodes in the
vicinity of the placer claim of the plaintiff and also of the-placer
claim of Wells and Moyer; and also evidence that parties in'
the neighborhood believed that there was a vein or lode lying
under those placer claims, and also evidence of conversations
in 1877 with one Stevens, who only acquired his interest, by
purchase with one Leiter, from the patentee more than a year
after the patent was issued, as to his opinion of the existence
of mineral underlying all the ground where he had men at
work, although the ground thus loosely designated was not
shown to have covered the premises in controversy.
1. At the outset of the trial the deposition of one Leonhardy was introduced in which he was allowed to testify in
regard to lode claims located in the vicinity of the placer
claim of the plaintiff and the placer claim of Wells and Moyer,
against the objection of the plaintiff that the testimony was
not competent or relevant. He stated that he knew of a
"great many holes having been sunk there" between 1860
and 1880. And he referred to the claim of the Oro La Plata
and to the Pennsylvania claim, and was allowed to. give testimony as to the character of the dump of the former, and also
of the underground workings of the latter, and of the kind of
vein that it disclosed. He was also permitted to speak of
adjoining mines, called the Rock and Dome mines, and how
long he had known them, and of his examination of their
workings. Testimony of the same general character, though
less full in detail, in reference to the same and other claims in
the vicinity of the placer claim, was given by ,other witnesses.
It would seem that the court below, in adriiitting evidence

OCTOBER TER.M, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

respecting other lodes in the vicinity of the placer claims,
went upon the idea that it would support the theory on which
it was supposed the contention of the defendant would be made,
that there was only one lode running through all the ground
in the neighborhood of the placer claims, although no such
theory was advanced in fact. The error of this course of procedure and its tendency to mislead the jury are manifest. The
existence of a lode covering everything or running through
the whole country was not a matter to be assuined or to be
shown by evidence of the existence of different lodes in the
Vicinity of the placer claim. If such an extended lode existed,
its existence was to be established as any other matter of fact
in the case, by competent proof. There is no necessary connection between the existence of lodes outside of a placer
claim and one in it. It is true there may be instances, or at
*leastthey may be supposed, where the general condition and
developments of a mining lode adjoining a placer claim may
establish the fact that a lode enters within such claim; as for
example, where the working of the lode is up to the line of
the placer claim, and the lode continues to the point of contact. One then can satisfy himself, by examination, of the
penetration of the lode to some extent within the claim. But
no such knowledge can come from the workings of lodes at a
distance from a placer claim as in this case. It is a matter
well known to persons at all familiar with mining for the
precious metals that veins rich in gold and silver are generally
found with barren rock within a few feet on each siae of
them, and that such veins more frequently than otherwise
come abruptly to an end. No one thus familiar would feel
justified in concluding from the mere distance or vicinity of
other mines that they had any necessary connection With each
other. In accordance with this doctrine, this court held, in
-Dahlv. Raunkeim, 132 U. S. 260, 269, that the discovery by
the defendant in that case of a lode two or three hundred feet
outside of the boundaries of the placer claim in suit did not
"create any presumption of the possession of a vein or lode
within those boundaries, nor,'we may add, that a vein or lode
existed within them." The admission of the evidence in ques-

IROIN SILVER CO. v. MIKE & STARR 00

427

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

tion was well calculated to confuse the jury and mislead their
judgment.
2. The witness Leonhardy was also allowed, against the
objection of the plaintiff, to state that there was knowledge
among tte people in the vicinity of the plater Uldim of the
plaintiff, at the times he visited the country, as to the existence of a vein or deposit of mineral underneath the claims.
He testified that there was such knowledge at those times;
that wherever they, the people, sunk, there they found mineral, without stating what or where people sunk or the character of their developments, the knowledge being evidently
no more than an opinion or belief which parties in the vicinity had formed on the subject. The witness Reed was allowed
to state that there was a general understanding that there
was a vein under the placer claim. Of the inadmissibility of
this kind of evidence to establish the existence of a valuable
vein or lode of mineral and knowledge of it by the patentee
on his application for the patent, it would seem there could be
no question. The opinions and belief of the neighborhood do
not show knowledge of the existence of.a lode or vein of valuable mineral. On this point we have an express adjudication
in the case of .Zon Silver .Mining Co. v. Reynolds, when it
was here at October term, 1887, 124 U. S. 374, 384. It was
there held that mere belief as to the existence of a valuable
lode, founded even upon investigation as to the character of
the ground, did not amount to knowledge under the statute.
"The statute speaks," said the court, "of acquiring a patent
with a knowledge of the existence of a vein or lode within the
boundaries of the claim for which a patent is sought, not the
effect of the intent of the party to acquire a lode which may
or may not exist, of which he has no knowledge. N6r does it
render belief, afte;r examination, in the existence of a lode,
knowledge of the fact. There may be difficulty in determining whether such knowledge in a given case was had, but between mere belief and knowledge there is a wide difference.
The court could not make them synonymous by its charge
and thus in effect incorporate new terms into the statute."
Purchasers from a patentee holding the instrument of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: -Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

general government conveying to him fifty-six acres and a
fraction of an acre of valuable mineral ground are not to be
deprived years subsequent to their purchase of nearly one-fifth
of it, or, indeed, any portion of it, because his neighbors at
the time or subsequently residing near the premises believed
that there was a vein or lode under the surface of his claim
which he ought not to have. To sustain the admission of
such beliefs or opinions in evidence against the patent would
be to take from that instrument of the government all the
peace and security which it is supposed to give to its possessor
in the enjoyment of the property it transfers to him. An
unlocated lode claim, existing only in the impressions and
beliefs of neighbors or others, and not in knowledge founded
upon discovery and exploration, does not seem to me to have
any element of property or validity as a basis of a defence to
.roceedings to obtain a patent from the government.
3. The testimony received of conversations of the same
witness with Stevens, as to the latter's opinion in 1887 of the
existence of a large body of metal "underlying all the ground
there," referring to ground where he had employed men to
work, would seem to be subject to still greater objection, for
it was not shown that the ground referred to embraced the
premises in controversy. Leonbardy testified that in the
spring of 1877 Stevens came to his house and told him that
the country, referring to the ground upon which his men were
at work, was good, the best mineral country he ever saw, bpt
that if he told the men he had employed so, they would leave
hirmas soon as they got there and go on their own hook; and
again, that he had found an immense body of mineral underlying all that ground there, that he had shipped many tons
which had paid him a handsome profit, and that he was going
to secure the ground and begin very heavy operations. It does
not appear, however, what operations he did commence, if any,
or what interest he then had in the "ground there" beyond
that of a prospector and, explorer, or that he.'ever made any
mining location himself, or acquired any title to any mines
except by the purchase mentioned froM the patentee. Nor
does it appear that he possessed any special'knowledge of the

IRON SILVER CO. v. MIKE & STARR CO.

429

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

character of the mines. He had only an impression and theory
that the land was rich in mineral. Without making the many
possible allowances admissible for inaccuracies and exaggerations of the witness respecting statements made eight years
before, there is nothing in what Stevens is reported to have
said to him of the mineral richness of the country that can
possibly affect the validity of the patent of the government to
the patentee, Moyer, of other and different land.
The only other testimony introduced to connect Stevens
with the patentee, and to show that Moyer, the patentee, had
knowledge of the existence of any lode before his application
for the present patent, is that of the witness Norris, who said
that, Moyer, the patentee, told him, not stating the time or
place, that he, Moyer, was going to get a placer patent for
Mr. Stevens, who was afraid that miners would adverse hiri,
and he wanted Moyer to get the patent for him, not mentionin- of what land such patent was to be had. It subsequently
appeared that this alleged conversation'had reference to a different claim than that of Moyer-to that of Wells and Moyer.
It would be a waste of time to argue that such statements, if
made, do not even tend to prove any such knowledge of a
lode within -the claim, for a disregard of which in his application one-fifth of the rights acquired by the patent can be
defeated, years after the patent has been issued, the property
gone into the hands of third parties, who have put up extensive works, and incurred large expenditures in its development. Frail, indeed, would the support of a patent be if testimony to such vague'and loose conversations of a party not
interested in the land in controversy at the time as owner
could be received to impair the title of a bona Xde purchaser
from the patentee of the government, as the plaintiff in this
case was. And yet, referring to it, the court below instructed
the jury that it tended to prove knowledge of the existence of
a lode equally in Moyer, the patentee, as it did in Stevens, thus
assuming that it did prove such knowledge by Stevens; that
no distinction could be raised between them ; and that if the
jury found that the existence of a lode was known to Stevens,
they might find upon the same evidence that it was known to
Moyer, the patentee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Harlan, Brown, JJ.

The record in this case affords a good illustration of what
may be expected if loose testimony of the character mentioned
can be received upon a trial of this kind. It contains a mass
of hearsay testimony, irrelevant gossip, geological impressions
of the, neighborhood, and loose recollections of miners of what
had transpired years before or of what they believed to exist,
all mingled together and admitted by the court as going to
prove the existence of a lode and knowledge of its existence
on the part of the placer applicant. If out of such materials
a patentee can be deprived of his property years after the issue
of a patent, that instrument will be worse than useless to him.
It will prove a delusion and a snare, luring him on to large
expenditures, only to make more complete his ultimate ruin.
It will afford no security against mere surmises, suppositions
and beliefs, but Ieave him to be overwhelmed by them.
In my opinion' the judgment should be reversed and a new
trial awarded.
On the 25th April, 1892, it was "Ordered by the court that the mandate in this
cause be stayed; that notice be given to counsel for the defendant in error that an
application for a rehearing has been made; and leave is hereby granted counsel on
both sides to file printed briefs on or before the first day of the next term of this
court upon the question whether a rehearing should be granted and the judgment
be reversed and the cause remanded."

IRON SILVER MINING COMPANY V. MIIKE AND STARR GOLb
(NO. 2.)
AND'SILVER MINING COMPANY.
Case No. 3, between the same parties, presents
BREWER, J.

the same questions, arid the same judgment of affirmance will be
entei*-d therein.
FIELD, J., dissenting. This case presents the same questions
which are considered in the case of a similar title, No. 2, just decided, only that the former relates to the Goodell lode claim and
the latter to the Gardener lode claim.
The two cases were tried together upon the same testimony,
subject to the same objecti6ns and exceptions, and the instructions
given by the court were so worded as to apply to both. I dissent
from the judgment in this case for, the reasons expressed in my
dissent from the judgmefit in the former case.

SULLIVAN v IRON SILVER MINING CO.
Statement of the Case.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and- MR. JUSTICE BROWN concur in this
dissent.
Mr. L. S. Dixon and M3r. Ashley PoQ for plaintiff in error.
James MoIHeen and Mr. Frank W. Owcers were on their brief.
Mr. T.

.Mr.

.1. Pattersonfor defendant in error.

SULLIVAN v. IRON SILVER -MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE NITED STATES FOR THE DISTRIOT OF COLORADO.
No.7.

Argued November 20, 23, 1891.-

Decided February 29, 1892.

A placer patent conveys to the patentee full title to all lodes or veins within
the territorial limits, not then known to exist; and mere speculation and
belief, based, not on- any discoveries in the placer tract, or any tracings
of a vein or lode adjacent thereto, but on the fact that quite a number of
shafts, sunk elsewhere in the district, had disclosed horizontal deposits
of a particular kind of ore, which, it was argued, might-be merely parts
of a single vein of continuous extension through all that territory, is
not the knowledge required by the law.
As the judgment in this case rests upon a sound principle of law, this court
affirms it, although it was put, by the court below, upon an unsound
principle.

THIs was an action. of ejectment, commenced in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Colorado on the
5th day of March, 1883, by the defendant in error. The complaint alleged that on the first day of January, 1883, plaintiff
was the--owner and in possession of a tract of land in Lake
County, Colorado, known as the Wells and Moyer placer claim,
consisting of 193 - acres, the description of which was given .
in full; that while so in possession, and on the 2d day of January, 1883, the defendants entered upon a certain portion, which
was fully described, being ab6ut ten acres, and wrongfully seized
and detained the same. In their answer the defendants set

forth that the plaintiff held title to the placer claim by a patent

