OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. WITTEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINTA.
No. 151.

Argued January 8,1892. -Decded

February 1, 1892.

The stealing of distilled spirits from a distillery warehouse by reason of the
omission of the internal revenue officers to provide sufficient locks on
the doors affords no defence to an action on the distiller's bond to pay
the tax due on the spirits before their removal and within three years
from the date of entry.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. ,Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendants in error.

[R.

JUSTICE

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action broiight in May, 1887, on a bond dated
January 31, 1884, given to the United States by the defendant
Witten as principal, and the other defendants as sureties, in
the sum of $261.90, with condition that the principal should
pay, or cause to be paid, to the collector of internal revenue
for the fourth collection district cf Virginia the amount of
taxes due and owing on certain distilled spirits (described)
"which were deposited during the -month ended January 31st,
1884, and entered for deposit in the distillery warehouse No. 3,
of A. S. Witten, at Plumb Creek,. in the fourth collection
district of Virginia,, on the 31st of January, 1884, before such
spirits shall be removed from such warehouse, and within three
years from the date of such entry."
One breach alleged in the declaration, and denied in the
plea, was that at the date of the bond Witten had on deposit
in his distillery warehouse ninety-three gallons of distilled
spirits in two, barrels, deposited January 30, 1884, and had
failed to pay within three years from the date of entry the
taxes due thereon.

UNITED STATES v. WITTEN.
Opinion of the Court.

At the trial the deposit of the spirits in the warehouse and
the non-payment of the tax were admitted. The defendants
offered evidence tending to show that the locks placed on the
doors of the warehouse by the revenue officers were at times
not such as required by law, and at other times were insufficient
and insecure, and the warehouse itself was not a secure building; and that during such times the warehouse was broken
open and the spirits stolen.
The district attorney requested the court to instruct the jury
that if these facts were proved, yet the United States were
entitled to recover the amount of the taxes on these spirits.
But the court refused so to instruct the jury, and instructed
them that the United States were'entitled to recover that
amount, "unless the jury shall believe from the evidence that
through the negligence and default of the officers of the government the defendant lost a portion of 'the whiskey deposited
in the bonded warehouse, then as to the number of gallons so
lost by the default or negligence of the agents of the government the defendants are entitled to a reduction of the government's demand at the rate of ninety cents on the gallon.'"
The jury returned a verdict for the defendants, and the
United States excepted to the refusal to instruct and to the
instruction given, and sued out this writ of error.
By section 3271 of the Revised Statutes, it.is enacted that
every distiller shall provide at his own expense a warehouse
to be situated upon and to constitute a part of his distillery
premises, and to be'used only for the storage of distilled spirits
of his own manufacture until the tax thereon shall be paid,
and not to open into the distillery or into any other-building;
and such\warehouse, when approved by the commissioner of
internal revenue, on report of the collector, is declared to be
a bonded warehouse of the United 'States, and is to be Aunder
the direction and control of the collector of the district and in
charge of an internal revenue storekeeper. By section 3274,
"every distillery warehouse shall be in the joint ustody of
the storekeeper and the proprietor thereof;" and shall 'be
securely locked, and shall be opened only in the presence of
the storekeeper. .And by section 3275, no fence or wall more

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
. Opinion of the Court.

than five feet high shall be built around the premises of any
distillery, and every distiller shall furnish to the collector of
the district as many keys of the gates and doors of the warehouse as the collector may require for any revenue officers
authorized to inspect the premises, and the distillery shall be
kept ahvays accessible to any officer or other person having
such a key.
By section 3293 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the
joint resolution of March 28, 1878, No. 16, and by the act of
March i, 1879, c. 125, § 5, the distiller or owner of all spirits
removed to the distillery warehouse is required to enter them
for deposit in the warehouse, and, at the time of making the
entry, to give bond, with sureties satisfactory to the collector
of the district, "conditioned that the principal named in said
bond shall pay the tax on the spirits as specified in the entry,
or cause the same to be paid, before removal from said distillery warehouse, and within three years from the date of said
entry." 20 Stat. 249, 336.
The bond sued on is in that"form. By the failure of the
defendants to pay the taxes on part of the spirits within three
years from the date of their entry for deposit, the condition
of the bond was forfeited. The stealing of those spirits from
the warehouse by reason of the omission of the revenue officers
to provide sufficient locks on the doors affords no defence,
either to the principal or to the sureties on the bond. Under
the requirements of the internal revenue laws, the warehouse
was provided by the owngr of the distillery, at his own expense
and on his premises, and, although declared to be a bonded
warehouse of the United States, and required to be under the
direction and control of the collector of the district and in
charge of a government storekeeper, was in the joint custody
of the storekeeper and the owner. The deposit of the spirits
in the warehouse was solely for the benefit of the distiller, and
to enable him to give bond for the payment of the tax on the
spirits, instead of paying the tax at once. The government
assumed no responsibility to him for their safekeeping. If he
was not satisfied with the security of the warehouse, he had
only to take any measure, consistent with the access and

STYLER v. SAVAGE.
Syllabus.

supervision of the revenue officers, to make it more secure, or
else to pay the tax and remove the spirits. The only duty
which the revenue officers owed in regard to the security of
the warehouse and the safekeeping of the spirits therein, was
to the government, and not to the defendants; and any negli'gence of those officers gave the defendants no rights against
the government, and afforded them no excuse for not performing their obligation according to its terms. This is too well
settled by previous decisions of this court to require more
extended discussion. Hart v. United States, 95 U. S. 316, and
cases cited; 2finturn v. United States, 106 U. S. 437.

The jury in this case having been instructed otherwise, the
judgment must be
Reversed, and the case remanded with directions to set aside
the verdict, and to order a new trial.
In No. 152, a similar case between the same parties, a like
judgment was entered.
Mr. Solicitor General for the United States.
1No appearance for defendants in error.

TYLER v. SAVAGE.
APPEAL FROM THE 'CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRIOT OF VIRGINIA.
1o. 158. Argued January 18,1892. -Decided

February 1, 1892.

A derree in a suit in equity found that T., an individual defendant, and the
remaining assets of a corporation defendant, were liable to the plaintiff
for the sum of $10,000 paid by him into the treasury of the company.
at ±he instance of T., for a certificate of stock therein, which company
was represented to him by T., who was its president, to be in a flourishing conditibn, when in fact it'was insolvent; and distributed $176.24 as
the remaining assets of the company, of which: $13.24 went to the plaintiff as a 6redit on his claim for $10;000; and decreed that T. pay to the
plaintiff $10,000, subject to a credit of the $13.24. There was no demurrer

