SULLIVAN v IRON SILVER MINING CO.
Statement of the Case.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and- MR. JUSTICE BROWN concur in this
dissent.
Mr. L. S. Dixon and M3r. Ashley PoQ for plaintiff in error.
James MoIHeen and Mr. Frank W. Owcers were on their brief.
Mr. T.

.Mr.

.1. Pattersonfor defendant in error.

SULLIVAN v. IRON SILVER -MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE NITED STATES FOR THE DISTRIOT OF COLORADO.
No.7.

Argued November 20, 23, 1891.-

Decided February 29, 1892.

A placer patent conveys to the patentee full title to all lodes or veins within
the territorial limits, not then known to exist; and mere speculation and
belief, based, not on- any discoveries in the placer tract, or any tracings
of a vein or lode adjacent thereto, but on the fact that quite a number of
shafts, sunk elsewhere in the district, had disclosed horizontal deposits
of a particular kind of ore, which, it was argued, might-be merely parts
of a single vein of continuous extension through all that territory, is
not the knowledge required by the law.
As the judgment in this case rests upon a sound principle of law, this court
affirms it, although it was put, by the court below, upon an unsound
principle.

THIs was an action. of ejectment, commenced in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Colorado on the
5th day of March, 1883, by the defendant in error. The complaint alleged that on the first day of January, 1883, plaintiff
was the--owner and in possession of a tract of land in Lake
County, Colorado, known as the Wells and Moyer placer claim,
consisting of 193 - acres, the description of which was given .
in full; that while so in possession, and on the 2d day of January, 1883, the defendants entered upon a certain portion, which
was fully described, being ab6ut ten acres, and wrongfully seized
and detained the same. In their answer the defendants set

forth that the plaintiff held title to the placer claim by a patent

OCTOBER TERI\f, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

from th6 United States, of date March 11, 18.9, which contained these restrictions and exceptions:
"First. That the grant hereby made is restricted in its exterior limits to the boundaries of the said lot No. 281, as hereinbefore described and to any veins or lodes of quartz or other
rock in place bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper
or other vafiable deposits which may hereafter be discovered
within said limits, and which are not claimed or known to
exist at the date hereof.
"Second. That should any vein or lode of quartz or other
rock in place bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper
or other valuable deposits be claimed or known to exist within
the above-described premises at the date hereof, the same is
expressly excepted and excluded from these presents."
They also averred that at the time of the location of the
placer claim and the issue of the patent a vein or deposit of
mineral ore in rock in place, of great value, was known and
claimed, to exist within the bbundaries and underneath the
surf5 ce of said placer claim, and that the patentee knew that
said vein was claimed to exist, and did exist, within said
premises; that the application for the patent did not contain
any application for sai4l vein or lode; and that on the 1st day
of January, 1883, the defendants, citizens of the United States,
went ipon the premises and sunk a shaft thereon, and at the
depth of more than -ten feet from the surface cut and exposed
said vein or deposit, and proceeded afterwards to file a location
certificate. A demurrer to this answer was sustained, and
judgment entered for the plaintiff. The defendants took the
case ott error to this court, and here the judgment of the Circuit Court was reversed. Sullivan v. .Mining Company, 109
U. S. 550. The case turned on the construction of the pleadings, and it was held that the "allegation in the answer, that
the vein was known by the patentees to exist at the times
mentioned, is an allegation, in the very words of the statute
itself-, of the fact which the statute declares shall be conclusive
against any right of possession of the vein or lode claim in a
claimant of the placer claim only.-" *No opinion was expressed
on the question discussed by counsel, as to whether any other

SULLIVAN v. IRON SILVER MINING CO.

433

Opiniou of the Court.

than a located vein or lode could be deemed to be a known
vein or lode within the meaning of the statute and the exception in the patent. On the return of the case to the Circuit
Court, a replication was filed, denying that there was at the
time of the location of the placer claim or the issue of the
placer patent any known vein, lode or mineral deposit within
the premises, and also denying that the defendants discovered
or exposed any vein, lode or mineral deposit of any kind
whatever. On November 17, 1885,. the case was tried before
a jury, the verdict and judgment were for the plaintiff, and
the defendants again bring the case here on error.
.Mr. T. 2. Pattersonfor plaintiffs I in error.
.Ar. L. S. Dixon and
error.

I.

.Asley Pond for defendant in

Mi . JusTier BEWEE delivered the opinion -of the court.
On the trial, the court took the case away from the jury,
the only instruction it gave being as follows:
"Under the opinion rendered by Judge McCrary in this case,
it appears that the plaintiff is entitled to recover, the defendants' location not having been made until .after the patent was
issued, and we will enter'your verdict.for the plaintiff in such
form as counsel may present."
In this the District Judge trying the case simply followed
the opinion theretofore expressed by the Circuit Judge, to the
effect that location was necessary before a vein or lode could
be adjudged a known vein or lode within the exception in the
patent, and the provision of section 2333, Revised Statutes'
(5 McCrary, 274.) In this ruling was error, as has since been
repeatedly determined by this courf. Reynolds v. _'on Silver
Jfln.'lg (0., 116 U. S. 687; TroA Silver 3ining Co. v. Reynolds, 124 U. S. 374; JVoyes v. .antle, 127 U. S. 348, 353;
Iron Silver
ln in Co. v. ,&fiike & Starr Mining Co., ante,
394. In Ytoyes 'v. Mantle, this court, speaking of see. 2333,
'Argued with No. 2, ante, 394, and No. 3, ante, 430.
VOL. cx=.m-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

used this language: "The section can have no application to
lodes or veins within the boundaries -of a placer claim which
have IJeen previously located under the laws of the United
States, and are in possession of the locators or their assigns;
for, as already said, such locations, when perfected under thT
law, are the property of the locators, or parties to whom the
locators have conveyed their interest. As said in Belk v.
3eagher,104 U. S. 279, 283: 'A mining claim perfected under
-the law is property in the highest sense of that term, which
may be bought, sold, and conveyed, and will pass by descent.'
It is not, therefore, subject to the disposal of the government.
The secticin can apply Quly to lodes or veins not taken up and
located so as to become the property of others.. If any are
not thus owned, and-are known to exist, the applicant for the
patent must include them in his applicationj or he will be
deemed 'to have declared that he had no right to them.
Sullivan v. 1'on Silver Mining Co., 109 U. S. 550, 554."
But, notwithstanding the technical error. in this ruling, we
cannot see that it wrought any prejudice to the substantial
rights of the plaintiff in error, for, upon all the facts in the
case, the judgment was one which must necessarily have been
rendered. It appears beyond dispute, in fact it is alleged in
the answer, that defendants entered upon the premises in
January, 1883, and not earlier, and" thereafter sank a shaft
and did whatever work was done, and this, as appears by the
pleadings and the testimony, was nearly four years after the
issue of -the patent. But a placer patent conveys to the patentee full title to all lodes or veins within the territorial
limits, not then known to exist. So it matters not what
developments or discoveries were made by these defendants
after the issue of the ~atent. Nothing then disclosed could
limit the effect of the patent, or except from its scope any vein
or lode within its territorial limits. And, therefore, the tesumony as to what took place, after the issue of. the patent, or
as to the discoveries made thereafter, might properly have been
excluded, and may now be wholly rejected in considering
what judgment ought to have been rendered.

The only other question requiring notice is-this: After the

SULLIVA N v. IRON SILVER MINING CO.

435

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff had finished its testimony, and the defendants had
commenced offering theirs, the court intimated that it intended to direct a verdict for the plaintiff on the conceded
fact that no location was made by the defendants until after
the issue of plaintiff's patent, but at the same time notified
the defendants that they could put in all the evidence they
wished as to the existence of a lode, and the. patentee's knowledge of it, and, replying to counsel for plaintiff, who was'
objecting to any further testimony, said: "Well, Mr. Owers,
the theory upon which they proceed is That you never got
this lode, [it] being known to you. Whether they made a valid
location of it or not is another question; but if it was known
to the patentee at the time of the entry, whether located or,
not, their position is, and they aregoing to maintain it in the'z
Supreme Court if they can, that you never got title to it by
means of your placer patent."
And after that, defendants offeredia mass of testimony, the
scope of which was similar to that condemned as insufficient
in the case of I'on Silver lning Co. v. Reynolds, supra.
Its purport was that it was commonly believed that underlying all the country in that vicinity was a nearly horizontal
vein or deposit, frequently called a blanket vein; and that
the parties who were instrumental in securing this placer
patent shared in that belief, and obtained the patent with a
view to thereafter 'developing such underlying vein. But
whatever beliefs may have been entertained generally, or by
the placer patentees alone, there was up to the time the patent
was obtained no knowledge in respect thereto.. It was, sp far
as disclosed by this testimony, on the part of everybody,
patentees included, merely a matter of speculation and belief,
based not on any discoveries fil the placer tract, or any tracings of a vein or lode adjacent thereto, but on the fact that
quite a number of shafts sunk 'elsewhere in the district had
disclosed horizontal deposits of a particular kind of ore, which
it was argued might be -merely parts of a single vein of continuous extension through all that territory. Such a belief is
not the knowledge 'required by the section. In the case refered to this court said: "There may be difficulty in detei-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

mining .whether such knowledge in a given case was had, but
between mere 'belief and knowledge there is a wide difference.
The court could not make them synonymous by its charge,
and thus in effect incorporate new terms into the statute."
So, giving full weight to all the testimony offered by the
defendants, both as to the workings and discoveries after the
-patent, and the speculations and beliefs existing prior to its
issue, the court should have directed a verdict, as it did, for
the plaintiff, and the only error was in giving a wrong reason
for a correct instruction.
No substantial and prejudicial error appearing in the record,
the judgment will be
Mr.JusToE FIELD concurring.

I concur in the judgm at of affirmance in this case, but as I
do not agree with all the views expressed in the opinion of the
co rt I have concluded to state my own separately.
The action is for the possession of certain mining ground
known as the Kit Carsbn lode, situated in Colorado, and within
the boundaries drawn down vertically from the surface of
what is known there as the Wells and Moyer placer claim.
This placer claim was patented to Wells and Moyer March 11,
1879, upon an application made May 165 1878, and an entry
made July 22, followifg. It is designated in the public surveys as mineral lot No. 281. It embraces 193 acres atid a
fraction of an acre, which are fully described by metes and
bounds both in the patent and the complaint in the action.
The patent, among other conditions, contains the following:
First. That the grant is restricted within the boundaries of
said lot 281, and to any veins or lodes of quartz or other rock
in place bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper or
other valuable deposits thereafter discovered within those limits, and which were not claimed or known to exist at the date
of the patent.'
Second. That should any vein or lode of quartz or other
rock in place bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper or

SULLIVAN v. IRON SILVER AITNING CO.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

other valuable deposits be claimed or known to exist within
the above-described premises at the date of the patent, the
same are expressly excepted and excluded from it.
The defendants in answer to the action recited these exceptions to the patent and set up "that at the time of the
location of said placer claim, and the survey thereof, and at
the time of the application for said patent, and at the time
of the entry of said land thereunder, and at the time
and date of the issuing and granting of said patent, a lode,
vein or deposit of mineral ore in rock in place, carrying carbonates of lead and silver, and of great value, was known to
exist, and was claimed to exist, within the boundaries and
underneath the surface of said Wells and Moyer placer claim,
No.2S1; and that the fact that said vein was claimed to exist,
and did exist as aforesaid, within said premises, was known to
the patentees of said claim at all the times hereinbefore mentioned;" and "that the said application for said patent by said
patentees and grantors of said plaintiff did not include any
application whatever for a patent of or to said lode or vein
within its boundaries aforesaid." The defendant, therefore,
averred "that the said failure to include said vein or lode in
said application amounted to a conclusive declaration by said
patentees that they made no claim whatever to said lode or
vein, or any part thereof, and that the same was expressly
excepted and excluded from, and did not pass with, the grant
of the premises by the patent."
The defendants further alleged that on the 1st of January,
1883, they, being then and now citizens of the United States,
went upon the premises described in the complaint and sunk a
shaft thereon, which uncovered and exposed said lode, vein or
deposit, and that thereupon they proceeded to locate the same
as a lode claim by erecting at the point where they cut the
said vein a notice, containing the name of said lode, to wit, the
Kit Carson lode, the date of the location, and their names as
locators, and caused the surface boundaries of the claim to be
marked by posts, and afterwards filed a location certificate
containing the name of the lode, the names ol the locators,
the date of the location, the number of feet in length claimed

OCTOBER TER31, 1891.
Concurring Opinion- Field, J.

on each:side of the centre of the discovery. shaft, and the general course and direction of the claim as near as might be.
The defendants therefore claimed the *right to occupy and
possess the premises in full accordance with and by virtue of a
full compliance N'ith the requirements of the laws of the United
States and of the State of Colorado, the said vein, lode or deposit being a part and parcel of the unappropriated public
mineral domain of the United States.
A demurrer to this answer was sustained by the Circuit
Court, and judgment being entered thereon, the case was
brought here for review at October term, 1883. The demurrer
was on ttWe ground that the answer did not disclose any defence, because -it showed that. neither the defendants nor their
grantors had discovered, located or recorded a lode or vein
such as is described in section 2320 of the Revised Statutes, at
or, before the application for the placer patent, but that the
defendants located their lode claim within the boundaries of
the patented ground after the issue of the patent; and because
the applicants for the placer claim were not required to apply
for the vein or lode claim unless it had been duly discovered,
located and recorded, and was owned by the applicants for
the placer patent at the time of their application. This court
reversed the judgment of the Circuit Court for the plaintiff on
the demurrer, holding that it was sufficient as a matter of
pleading, to bring an alleged lode or vein within the exception
of the patent, to aver that it was inown to the patentee to
exist at the time of his applying for a patent, and was not
included in his application. 109 U. S. 550.
On the trial in the Circuit Court the plaintiff gave in evidence its patent, and to show the date of/the location of the
lode'claint by the defendants produced the certificate of their
location. This certificate is dated January 2, 1883, and alleges
a location made on that day upon a discovery of the same
date.
* To establish the existence of the lode claimed by the defendants, the testimony of four witnesses was introduced. One of
-them, Leonhardy, was allowed to testify, against the objec-.
tion of the plaintiff, as to the existence of various lodes in the

SULLIVAN v. IRON SILVER MINING 00.

439

.Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

vicinity of the placer claim of william Moyer and the placer
claim of Wells and Moyer, and of the character of their underground workings. He was also permitted, under like objection, to give the statements of one Stevens, made to him years
before, as to the latter's opinion then of the existence of a
large body of mineral wealth under the surface of the country
"round about there," although his interest in the premises in
controversy was only acquired by purchase with Leiter from
the owners of the placer claim aftet they had applied for a
patent, and' the statements were not made in the hearing of
such owners. Testimony of this character was, in my judgment, clearly inadmissible. The testimony of Sullivan, one of
the locators of the lode in suit, only went to the character of
that lode, the extent to which a shaft had-been sunk its devel-,
opments, and also as to the existence of other lodes in the vicinity of the placer claim. There was not a particle of evidence
from any source showing that the vein or. lode located by 'the
defendants was known to exst at the date of the application.
for the placer patent, much less that its existence was brought
to the knowledge of the patentee. Its- location was nearly
five years after the application for the placer patent, and
nearly four years after the patent was issued.' The exist6nce
of the Mike tunnel and it§ extensidn *vithin the boundaries of
*the Moyer placer claim (not the place'r claim involved in.
- this case) can have no bearing upon the questions .Presented,
even if there had been at any time discoverbd ivithin that tunnel valuable mineral of sufficient extent to justify the. expegditure of time and money for its development.
Upon the close of the testimony the court instructed the
jury that the plaintiff was entitled to recover, the defendants'
location not having been made until after the patent was
issued, and directed them to find a verdict in its favor. They
accordingly found such verdict, and the question before this
court is as to the correctness of this instruction.
Exceptions to the operation of the patent are founded upon
section 2333 of the Revised Statutes, which is as follows:
"Where the same person, association or corporation is in
possession of a placer claim, and also a vein or lode included

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

within the boundaries thereof, application shall be made for
a patent'for: the placer claim, with the statement that it
includes such vein or lode, and in such case a patent shall issue
for the placer claim, subject to the provisions of this chapter,
including such vein or lode, upon the payment of five dollars
per acre for such vein or lode 'claim, and twenty-five feet of
surface on each side thereof. The remainder of the placer
claim, or any placer claim not embracing any vein or lode
claim, shall be paid for at the rate of two dollars and fifty
cents per acre, together with all costs of proceedings; and
where a vein or lode, such as is described in section twentythree hundred and twenty, is known to exist within the boundaries of a placer claim, an application for a patent for such
placer claim which does not include an application for the
vein or lode claim, shall be construed as a conclusive declaration that the claimant of the placer claim has no right of possession of the vein or lode claim; but where the existence of
a vein or lode in a placer claim is not known, a patent for the
placer claim shall'convey all valuable mineral and other depos- its within the boundaries, thereof."
This section, as this court has said on more than one occasion, makes provision foi. three distinct classes of cases:
1. Where one applies for a placer patent, who is at the
time in the possession of a vein or lode included within its
boundaries, he must state the fact, and then, on payment of
the sum required for a vein or lode claim and twenty-five feet
on each side of it at $5.00 an acre, and $2.50 an acre for the
placer claim, a patent will issue to him coverilig both claim
and lode.
2. Wheie a vein or'lode, such as is described in a previous
section of the Revised Statutes that is, of quartz or other
rock in place bearing gold, silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper
or other valuable deposits -is known to exist at the time
within the boundaries of the placer claim, the application for
a patent therefor, which does not also include an application
for the vein or lode, will be c6nstrued as a conclusive declaration that the claimant of the placer claim has no right of possession to the vein or lode.
-

SULLIVAN v. IRON SILVER MINING C0.

441

Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

3. Where the existence of a vein or lode in a placer claim
is not known at the time of the application for a patent, that
instrument will convey all valuable mineral and other deposits within its boundaries. Iron Silver Aining Co. v. Reynols,
124 U. S. 374, 382; also Reynolds v. Iron Silver -Mining Co.,
116 U. S. 687, 696.
The exception made in the patent of the placer claim, of
any vein or lode of quartz or other rock in place bearing gold;
silver, cinnabar, lead, tin, copper oir other valuable deposits,
"claimed or known to exist," at the date of the patent, within
the described premises, is in two particulars broader than the
language of the statute, and to that extent is inoperative. It
was so held in _'on Silver .Afining Company v. Reynolds,'124
U. S. 374,- 382, and in United States v. Iron Silver X£ining
Company, 128 U. S. 673, 680. The exception of the statute
cannot be extended by those-whose duty it is to supervise the.
issuing of the patent. It was so held in Dcfebaek v. Hawe,
115 U. S. 392, 406, where a mining patent for a placer claim..
Was alleged to cover certain buildings and improvements of
the d:efendant, and it was contended ii an action to recover
the premises, that the patent should have contained a reservation excluding from its operation tho buildings and improvements not belonging to, the patentee, and all rights necessary
or proper to their possession and enjoyment. But the court
held that this position had no support in any legislation of
Congress, adding: "The land officers,. who are merely agents
of the law, had no authority to insert in the patent any other
terms than those of conveyance, with recitals showing a compliance with the law and the conditions which it prescribed.
The patent of a placer mining claim carries with it the fitlb
to the surface included within the lines of the mining location,
as well as to the land beneath the surface." A similar ruling
was made in. United States v. Iron Silver -Mining Co., 128
U. S. 673, 680.
It thus appears that, according to the repeated decisions of
this court, to bring a vein or lode of quartz or other rock in
place bearing precious metals within the exceptions of the
statute, and of course within those 'of tht pa ent to the ektent

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

to which they are operative, the vein or lode must have been
known to exist at the time application for the patent was made.
The knowledge of the applicant is necessarily limited to what
has then been discovered; he cannot, of course, speak of possible future discoveries.
Before a vein or lode can be deemed to fidl within those
excepted from the placer patent, as a knowzn lode existing at
the time of the application of the patentee, the lode must be
discovered and located, so far as to be capable of measurement.
The instruction of the court below directing a verdict for
the plaintiff being in harmony with the decisions of this court
as to the necessity of showing the existence of a lode known
to the patentee at the time of his application for a patent, to
except the lode from conveyance to the patentee, I agree that
the judgment is rightly affirmed.

SCHWAB v. BERGGREN.
APPEAT

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOB

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 977. Argued January 21, 26, 1892. -Decided

February 29, 1892.

At common law it was deemed essential in capital cases that inquiry be
made of the defendant before judgment was passed whether he had anything to say why sentence of death should not be pronounced upon him;
thus giving him an opportunity to allege any ground of arrest, or to plead
a pardon if he had obtained one, or to urge any legal objection to further
proceedings againsthim. And if the record did not show that such privilege was accorded to him the judgment would be reversed.
This rule, however, does not apply to an appellate court, which, upon review
of the proceedings in the trial court, merely affirms a final judgment, without rendering a new one. Due process of law does not require his presence
in the latter court at the time the judgment sentencing him to death is
affirmed.
Neither the statutes of Illinois nor due process of law, require that the
accused, upon the affirmance of the judgment sentencing him to death,
shall be sentenced anew by the trial court. The judgment is not vacated
by the writ of error; only its execution is stayed pending proceedings in
the appellate court.

