SMALE v. MITCHELL.
Statement of the Case.

383, 388. The effect of the fraud committed by Tyler enured
directly to his personal advantage. Not only was he, as a
large stockholder and salaried officer, benefited by the plaintiff's payment into the treasury of the company of the $10,000, but, as already shown, $6200 of that sum went directly
to his benefit, and the remainder, he testifies, went to the purchase of material and ordinary expenses of the company.
The latter amount enabled the company to continue paying to
Tyler his salary for some time longer.

Decree affirmed.

SMALE v. MITCHELL.
QUESTIONS CERTIFIED FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCrIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 1418. Argued January 14, 1892. - Decided February 1,1892.

The provision in the statute of Illinois, (Rev. Stats. c. 45, ยง 35,) that " at any
time within one year after a judgment, either upon default or verdict, in
the action of ejectment, the party against whom it is rendered, his heirs
or assigns, upon tVe payment of all costs recovered therein, shall be
entitled to have the judgment vacated, and a new trial granted in the
the cause" applies to such a judgment rendered in a Circuit Court of the
United States, sitting within that State, on a mandate from this court in
a case commenced in a court of the State of Illinois, and removed thence
to the Circuit Court of the United States.
Ex parte Dubuque & -Pacq#o Railroad, 1 Wall. 69, distinguished from this
cse.

THE court stated the case as follows:
The defendant in error, Charles H. Mitchell, as plaintiff,
commenced an action of ejectment in a state court of Illinois,
to recover certain described premises situated in that State,
against Jabez G. Smale and others, which action was afterwards on sufficient grounds removed to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois. Issue
being joined in the action, it was tried by the court without a
jury, and upon the facts found judgment was rendered on Feb-

OCTOBER TERI[, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

runty, 1, 1886, in favor of the plaintiff for a portion of the
demanded premises, and in favor of the defendants for the
residue.
Judgment being entered thereon, the case was
brought to this court on a writ of error, and on May 11, 1891,
,the judgment was reversed and the cause remanded to the
Circuit Court with directions to enter judgment for the plaintiff in conformity with the opinion of this court. 140 U. S.
406. According to that opinion, the plaintiff was entitled to
recover a greater quantity of land than that described in the
judgment reversed. The declaration contained two counts, each
describing a portion of the demanded premises, and the opinion
directed that a general judgment be entered for the plaintiff
for the property described in both counts. The judgment was
reversed accordingly, and the cause remanded with instructions
as above mentioned. The mandate of the court issued thereon
followed the judgment, and was filed in the court below June
8, 1891; and that court, in obedience thereto, on the 12th of
June following, entered a judgment in favor of the plaintiff
for the premises described, and ordered a writ of possession to
be issued.
On the following day, June 13, 1891, the defendants moved
the court to vacate the judgment thus entered, and to grant
them a new trial under the statute of Illinois, all costs of the
action having been previously paid; but the court, after hearing argument thereon, denied the motion, and to its ruling the
defendants excepted.
To review this ruling the defendants,. in September, 1891,
sued out a writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit, retuinable in October following, and
assigned as error the refusal of the Circuit Court to vacate the
judgment entered on June 12, 1891, and grant a new trial
under the statutes of. Illinois, the costs having been paid, and
the motion -made in open court within one year from the rendition of the judgment, and the defendants never having had
a new trial in the cause as provided for by that statute.
The case being brought, upon this writ of error, before the
Circuit Court of Appeals, was heard on October 5, 1891, and
the question arose as to the power of the.court below to set

SMALE v. IMITCHELL.
Statement of the Case.

aside and vacate the judgment entered on June 12, 1891, pursuant to the mandate and opinion of the Supreme Court of
the United States, and to grant the defendants a new trial, as
of course, and simply upon the payment of costs, as provided
in the statutes of Illinois relating to the practice in actions
.of ejectment. The court being advised, it was ordered that
the question be certified to the Supreme Court of the United
States, pursuant to the sixth section of the act establishing
Circuit Courts of Appeals. 26 Stat. 828, c. 517.
On the hearing in the Circuit Court of Appeals the Circuit
Judge did not sit, but the court which made the order was
held by the Circuit Justice. and the District Judge for the
Northern District of Illinois, who had been assigned to sit as
a member of that court. Upon this certificate the case is now
before this court for hearing.
The provisions of the law of Illinois relating to ejectment
are contained in sections 34 and 35 of chapter 45 of the Revised
Statutes of that State. They are as follows :
"ยง 34. Every judgment in the action of ejectment shall be
conclusive, as to the title established in such action, upon the
party against whom the same is rendered, and- against all parties claiming from, through or under such party, by title accruing after the commencement of such action, subject- to the
exceptions hereinafter named.
"ยง 35. At any time within one year after a judgment, either
upon default or verdict in the action of ejectment, the party
again'st whom it is rendered, his heirs or assigns, upon the
payment of all costs recovered therein, shall be entitled to have
the judgment vacated, and a new trial granted in the cause.
If the costs are paid and the motion therefor is filed in vacation, upon notice thereof being given to the adverse party or
his agent or attorney, or the officer having any writ issued
upon such judgment, all further proceedings shall be stayed
till otherwise ordered by the court. The court, upon. subsequent application, made within one year after the rendering
of the second judgment in said cause, if satisfied that justice
will thereby be promoted, and the rights of the parties more
satisfactorily ascertained and established, may vacate the judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Mitchell.

ment and grant another new trial; but not more than two new
trials shall be granted to the same party under this section."
*.M. William C. Goudy for Smale and others.
Bennett was with him on the brief.

itr. John I

.A&. S. S. Gregory for MNitchell. .Xr. William X. Booth
and fr. James S. Harlan were on his brief.
The question to be determined is whether a judgment entered
on a mandate reversing a judgment of a Circuit Court and
directing a contrary judgment in conformity with the opinion
of this court, is a judgment of that court on "default or verdict" within the meaning of the Illinois statute. We contend
that that statute refers only to a judgment entered on a default,
or triai by the trial court, and not to a judgment on mandate,
which is virtually the judgment of this court.
The power of the Supreme Court in reviewing judgments of
inferior courts is, in some respects, defined in section 701 of
the Revised Statutes. This court does not enter judgments and
issue execution as is done in courts of last resort in some of the
States, but, having decided the case, renands it to the court
below, with directions to enter the appropriate judgment there.
When judgment has been entered in accordance with such
direction of this court, it becomes in substance and effect the
judgment, not of the court to which the case was remanded,
but of this court, and as such it is not subject to be superseded
or controlled in any way by the court below. Stewart v. Salnon, 97 U. S.361; Humphrey v. Baker, 103 U. S.736.
This view was taken under the judiciary act of 1789, 1 Stat.
73, c. 20. Ex parte Sibbald, 12 Pet. 488. Section 24 of that
act is as follows: "And be it -further enacted, That when
a judgment or decree shall be reversed in a Circuit, Court,
such court shall proceed to render such judgment or pass such
decree as the District Court should have rendered or passed ;
and the Supreme Court shall do the same on reversals therein,
except where the reversal is in favor of the plaintiff or petitioner in the original suit, and the damages to be assessed or

SMALE v. MITCHELL.
Argument for Mitchell

matter to be decreed are uncertain, in which case they shall
remand the cause for a final decision. And the Supreme Court
shall not issue execution in causes that are removed before them
by writs of error,- but shall send a special mandate to the Circuit Court to award execution thereupon."
This section might seem to contemplate that. this court
should render, except in special cases indicated, the appropriate
judgment, and, therefore, when this court, instead of entering
judgment, sent back a case under-that act to the court below
for the entry of judgment, it might be argued with much more
plausibility than it can be under the section of the Revised
Statutes referred to, that the judgment so entered was the
judgment of the court below, and not of this. court.
But the contrary has been held, as indicated in the case cited,
and in a later case, where it may fairly be said the question
now before the court was decided adversely to the contention
of the plaintiffs in error. Exparte Dubuque & Paific Rail,road,1 Wall. 69.
This case cannot be distinguished from the one now before
this court upon the ground that the Illinois statute permits a
new trial as matter of right, whereas, by the Iowa statute;
then construed by this court, such new trial is allowed, without cause, only in the discretion of the court. For in that case
this court held expressly that the trial court was wholly without power to act upon the judgment of this court, and that the
statute applied only to judgments of the trial court. And so,
it was held by Judge Wallace, that the Circuit Court cannot
entertain a motion for a new trial upon the ground. of newly
discovered -evidence, after mandate from this court directing
final judgment for the plaintiff. John Hancock Ins. Co. v.
.Manning,7 Fed. Rep. 299.
The judgment entered in pursuance of the mandate of this
court is not in any ordinary sense the judgment of the court
which enters it, but is in substance the judgment of the
Supreme Court, and not subject to the ordinary incidents of
a judgment entered in the trial court.
The authorities are plain that a judgment of this court, or
other 6ourt of last resort, isan adjudication conclusive and

OCTOBER TERIM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

binding in that case, whenever it is again presented to the
court on substantially the same record. Dodge v. Gaylord, 53
Indiana, 365; ,/nyth v. 21ref, 123 Illinois, 310; Union National Bank v. 1dernationtlBcnk, 123 Illinois, 510; Corbiny
v. Troy Factory, 15 How. 451; Sizer v. _f-any, 16 How. 98;
Robert.s v. Cooper, 20 How. 467.
On the ist day of February, 1886, the original judgment was
rendered in the case, and that judgment was againtthe defendants - the plaintiffs in error here - and therefore the very
ihoment that judgment was rendered their case was ready for
the exercise of their right to have the same vacated, and a new
trial as a matter of right.
They have no right whatever to have a new trial as 'to this
part of the land in controversy. Their first application for
such new trial was made June 13, 1891, more than five years
after the first judgment against them for this tract was rendered. It is true, in the interval, that judgment was reversed
by this court, and another judgment entered against them for
all the lands in suit.
But it would be a hardship to impose upon a plaintiff the retrial of a case as to land awarded to him in the court below as
a penalty for having successfully prosecuted a writ of error in
this court to reverse that judgment as to other lauds.
_.Ar. William, Prescott filed a brief for Mitchell.
-Mr. Thomas Dent, by leave of court, filed a brief for Gertrude Hardin, plaintiff in Ifardig v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371,
who was interested in the question in this case.
M . JusTIC@ FiELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court. -

The contention of -the plaintiffs in error, the defendants
below, is that the mandate of the Supreme Court was fully'
obeyed when, in pursuance thereof, judgmont was entered in
the Circuit Court, and that they have the same right after the
entry of that judgment to a new trial, according to the pro-

S MALE v. MITCHELL.
Opinion of the Court.

visions of the statute of Illinois, which they wouldl have had if
the Circuit Court had on the trial, in the first instance, ren-"
dered such judgment. On the other hand, the contention of
the defendant in error, the plaintiff below, is that the judgment entered by direction of the Supreme Court of the United
States is final, and that the right to a second trial given by the
statutes of Illinois to the losing party in ejectment does not
apply where the judgment against such party is entered by
direction of that court.
It is insisted at the outset that the statute of Illinois confers
a right to a new trial in ejectment only when the judgment is
rendered upon default or verdict, and does not apply to cases
where it is entered upon the mandate of an appellate- court,
the latter judgment not being within its language or intent.
We are unable to agree in this respect with counsel. By a,
judgment upon a verdict the statute evidently intended to
embrace all cases where the decision upon which the judgment was entered had been given upon contestation, as distinguished from one upon default; and the reason of the law
is as applicable to all judgments i such cases as to those
entered upon verdicts of a jury. Chainberlin v. McCarty, 63
Illinois, 262.,
By the common law the action of ejectment was purely one of
possession, and as it proceeded upon a fictitious demise between
fictitious parties, its determination decided nothing beyond the
right of the plaintiff at the date of the alleged demise. A new
action upon the allegation of a different demise might immediately be instituted. It was only after repeated verdicts in such
cases in favor of the plaintiff that the real claimant could apply
to a court of equity to quiet the possession and put an end to
the fruitless litigation respecting the property. A judgment in
ejectment in an action was consequently not a bar to a second
action for the same premises.
The law of Illinois changes this rule of the common law,
and makes a judgment in the action of ejectment conclusive as
to the title established in such action upon the party against
whom it is rendered, and parties claiming under him by title
arising after the commencement of the action, subject to cer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

tain exceptions named.

Those exceptions provide in two cases

for a second trial of the action. One is after the first trial and
judgment; the party against whom the judgment has been
rendered, or his heirs or assigns, is entitled to have the judgment set aside and a new trial granted within one year from
the date of the judgment, upon the payment of all costs in
the action. The new trial in such case is a matter of right,
upon the mere application of the party. The other is after
the second trial and judgment; then a new trial may be.granted,
upon the application of the losing party, if the court is satisfied that justice would be thereby promoted, and the rights
of the parties be more satisfactorily ascertained and established.
But only two trials can be granted to the same party
This absolute right of a party against whom a judgment in
ejectment has been rendered in such cases to a second trial,
upon his application and payment of costs in the aetion, is
esteemed in Illinois to be a valuable one. The statute which
authorizes it is there regarded as conferring a substantial right,
in that it increases the security of holders of real property,
that in case their title is brought into litigation it will be more
fully examined and satisfactorily ascertained and established
than by confining the parties to a single trial, as in other controversies except where another trial is ordered for cause. In
the courts of that State this right is secured in all cases of
ejectment. A it is a valuable one, there would seem to be
every reason why it should be enjoyed when the action was
commenced in a state court, and for good cause removed to a
court of the United States, there being nothing in the practice
of the latter court or in the laws of Congress which prevents or
impedes its enjoyment. If there existed any such objection
in the practice of the Federal courts, or in any law of Congress, as prevents the trial of equitable defences to an action
at-law which are allowed in some state corrts, the second trial
in ejectment simply upon the application of the party and the
payment of the costs might properly be refused; but there
exists, as stated, no such objection. It is not the purpose of
the statutes of the United States, which, authorize the renioval
of causes from a state court to a Federal court, to deprive

SMALE v. MITCHELL.
Opinion of the Court

either party of any substantial right, but to secure to the
parties all such rights which could be claimed il the state
courts when capable of enforcement under the settled Federal
practice.
The duty of the Federal courts to follow the practice of the
state courts in cases like the present one, where the law of the
State allows a new trial in actions of ejectment without showing cause, is recognized by this court in Euator Co. v. Hall,
106 U. S. 86, 88. That was an action in the Circuit Court of
the United States against a mining company to recover possession of a silver mine in Colorado. The case was, by agreement of parties, submitted to the judge of the court, who
found for the defendant and rendered judgment in his ' favor.
Thereupon the plaintiffs paid the costs of the action up to
that time, and under the provisions of a section of the Code
of Civil Procedure of that State moved for and obtained a
new trial without showing any cause. At a subsequent term
the case was again tried, and the jury returned a verdict for
the plaintiffs, on which judgment was entered. The defendant
then, without showing cause, moved for a new trial, which was
claimed to be a matter of right under the same section of the
code under which the previous new trial had been granted.
The judges of the court were divided in opinion on this motion, and certified the question to this court. The section of
the Code of Colorado under which the motion was made was
as follows:
"Whenever judgment shall be rendered against either party
under the provisions of this chapter, it shall be lawful for
the party against whom such judgment is rendered his heirs
or assigns, at any time before the fi.rst day of the next succeeding term, to pay all costs recovered thereby, and, upon
application of the party against whom the same was rendered, his heirs or assigns, the court shall vacate such judgment and grant a new trial in such case; but neither party
shall have but one new trial in any case, as of right, without
showing cause. And after such judgment is vacated, the
cause shall'stand for trial the same as though it had never
been tried."

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

In disposing of the question this court referred to the fictions
in the action of ejectment at common law, and to the inconclusiveness of the results of such actions, and observed that
this form of action had been abolished in some of the States,
and that in abolishing it with its accompanying evils, and in
substituting an action between the real parties, plaintiff and
defendant, it was found necessary to provide a rule on the subject of new trials in actions concerning the titles of land. While
these provisions, said the court, were not the same'in all States,
it was believed that almost all of them had made provision
for one or more new trials as a matter of right. The court
added: "We are of opinion that when an action of ejectment
is tried in a Circuit Court of the United States according to
the statutory mode of proceeding, that court is governed by
the provisions concerning new trials as it is by the other provisions of the state statute. There is no reason why the Federal court should disregard one of the rules by which the state
legislature has guarded the transfer of the possession and title
to real estate within its jurisdiction. .jfles v. Caldwell, 2
Wall. A5."
That decision goes beyond the requirement of this case, for
that action was commenced in a Federal court, while here it
was begun in a state court, and subsequently removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States. It is only necessary to
hold that in this case the same right to a second trial can be
claimed and enforced as if the action had never been thus
removed.
Against this view the defendants in error cite section 701 of
the IRevised Statutes of the United States, which prescribes
the power of.the Supreme Court in reviewing the judgment of
inferior courts as follows:
"The Supreme Court may affirm, modify or reverse any
judgment, decree or order of a Circuit Court, or District Court
acting as a Circuit Court, or of a District Court in prize causes,
lawfully brought before it for review, or may direct such judgment, decree or order to be rendered, or suchfurther proceedings to be had by the inferior court, as the justice of the case
may require. The Supreme Court shall not issue execution in

SAIALE v.

MTITCHELL.

Opinion of the Court.

a cause removed before it from such courts, but shall send a
special mandate to the inferior court to award execution
thereupon."
They contend that, the Supreme Court having rendered its
decision and remanded the case to the court below, with directions to enter the appropriate judgment, the judgment thus
entered becomes in substance and effect the judgment, not
of the court to which it was thus remanded, but of the
Supreme Court, and that it is not within the power of the
lower court to change its results or directions in any respect.
Undoubtedly, in ordinary cases, a new trial cannot be granted
by the court below, except for good cause, and in the exercise of its sound judgment, and it is not within its power,
in entering the judgment of the Supreme Court, to award a
new trial; and it only remains to carry the judgment into
execution.
But this rule cannot apply to an action of ejectment, where
the party is entitled by the law of the State in which the action arose to a new trial without showing cause, and in regard
to which the trial court possesses no discretion. The judgment
entered in an action of ejectment in such case, by direction of
the Supreme Court, stands subject to the same control by the
lower court as if thus rendered in the first instance.
The defendants in error also cite in support of their position
the case of E paite Dubuque & Pacific 1iailroad,1 Wall. 69.
At first sight this decision would seem to be an authority for
their position, but iupon examination it appears that the new
trial there depended upon the discretion of the court, and that
there was not, as mistakenly stated, any statute at that time
in Iowa which gave the party a right to ;i new trial as a matter of course. It appears from the record in that case, that
after the mandate had gone down, and judgment had been
entered in obedience to it, affidavits were presented and a motion made for a new trial, which was granted by the court;
and that subsequently a mandate was issued by this court
commanding the court below to vacate the order. That case,
therefore, as correctly stated by counsel, falls within the class
where the litigation was ended with the first trial, and its

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

decision does not'apply to those cases of ejectment where
more than one trial is directly allowed by, statute.
Our conclusion is, that
[ e plaintifs,in error were entitled to a new trial, upo%
their qpplication in the Circdt Court and payment of
costs, without showing other cause than that a judgment

was entered against them within the year. This conclusion will be certified to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
upon which that court will proceed to rendr the pioper
judgment in the case pending before it; and it is so ordered.

In re RAPIER, Petitioner.
In re DUPRE, Petitioner.
In re DUPRE, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
Woa. 7,8,9, Original. Arkued November 16,17,1891. -Decided

February 1,1892.

Section 3894 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the act of September
19,.1890, 26 Stat. 465, c. 908, which provides that "no letter, postal card
or circular concerning any lottery . . . and no list of the drawings at any
lottery . . . and no lottery ticket or part thereof .,. . shall be carried
in the mail, or delivered at or through any post-office, or branch thereof,
or by any letter-carrier"; and that no newspaper "containing any advertisement of any lottery" ".shall be carried-in the mail, or delivered by
any postmaster or letter-carrier"; and that "any person who shall
knowingly depositor causeto be deposited . . . anything to be conveyed
or delivered by mail in violation of this section . . . shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction shall be punished by a fine
of not more than. five hundred dollars or by imprisonment for not more
than one year," is a constitutional exercise of the power conferred upon
Congress by Art. I, sec. 8 of the Constitution, to establish post-offices
and post-roads, and does not abridge "the freedom of speech or of the
press," within the meaning of Amendment I to the Constitution.
-ExparteJackson, 96 U. S.727, affirmed to the points;
(1) That the power vested in Congress to establish post-offices and
post-roads embraces the regulation of the entire postal system of
the country, and that under it Congress may desiguate what may
be carried in the mail and what excluded;

