CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. WELLMVfAN.

339

Statement of the Case.

CHICAGO & GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY COMPANY
I
v.WELLMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
1No.1031.

Argued and submitted January 20, 1892. - Decided February 29,1892.

The act of the l~gislature of Michigan of June 28,'1889, (Public Laws of
1889, pp. 282, 283,) fixing the amount per mile to be charged by railways
for the transportation of a passenger, violates no, provision in the Constitution of the United States, so far as disclosed by the facts in this case.
A legislature has power to fix rates for the transportation of passengers
by railways, and the extent of judicial interference is protection against.
unreasonable rates.
Whenever, in the pursuance of an honest antagonistic assertion of rights,
there is presented a question involving the validity of any act of any
legislature, State or Federal, and the decision necessarily rests on the
competency of the legislature to so enact, the court must determine
whether the act be constitutional or not; but it never was the thought
that, by means of a friendly suit, a party beaten in the legislature could
transfer to the courts an inquiry as to the constitutionality of the legislative act.
Courts should be careful not to declare legislative acts unconstitutional
upon agreed and general statements, and without the fullest disclosure
of all material facts.

Ih 1889 the legislature of the State of Michigan passed an
act, nuniber 202 of the- Public Acts of that year, pages 282
and 283, by which, among other things, section 2333 of
Howell's Statutes, being a part-of the railroad law of that
State, was amended. So far as affects the matters in controversy here, it is enough to quote from the ninth paragraph,
referring to the powers and liabilities of railroad companies.
That is as follows:
"1Ninth. To regulate the time and manner in, which passengers and property shall be transported and the tolls and compensation to be paid therefor; but such compensation for
transporting any passenger and his or her ordinary baggage,
not exceeding in weight one hundred and fifty pounds, shall
not exceed the following prices, viz. : For a distance not
exceeding five miles, three cents per mile; for -all other distances, for all companies the gross earnings of whose passen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

ger trains, as reported to the commissioner of railroads for
the year one thousand eight hundred and eighty-eight, equalled
or exceeded the sum of three thousand dollars per mile of road
operated by said company, two cents per mile, and for all
companies the earnings of whose passenger trains reported
as aforesaid were over two thousand dollars and less than
three thousand dollars per mile of road operated by said company, two and a half cents per mile, and for all companies
whose earnings reported as aforesaid were less than two thousand dollars per mile of road operated by said company, three
cents per mile."
Prior thereto the regular fare charged on plaintiff in error's
road from Port IHuron to Battle Creek was $4.80, the distance
being 1591 miles. On the very day on which the law took effect,
to wit, October 2, 1889, the defendant in error, plaintiff below,
went to the defendant's office in Port Huron, and tendered
$3.20 for a ticket from that place to Battle Creek, which was
refused. Thereupon he brought this action in damages, to
which the railroad company promptly answered; and on
November 22, 1889, less than two months from the time the
law went into effect, the case was tried and a verdict and a
judgment entered .in favor of the'defendant in error for the
sum of $101, an amount sufficient to take the case to the
higher court. On the trial it was agreed that the railroad
company's earnings on its passenger trains for the year 1888
exceeded three thousand dollars per mile; that its capital
stock was $6,600,000, and had been- fully paid in; that its
bonded debt was $12,000,000, one half bearing six per cent and
the other half five per cent interest, payable semi-annually;
that the capital stock and mortgage debt represented an actual
amount paid into the corporation; that the railroad property
was at the time worth more than the capital stock and mortgage debt; and that in addition to the mortgage debt there
was a floating debt of the amount of $896,906.40. Further, the
following tabulated statement of the earnings and expenses for
the year 1888 was admitted to be correct:
"7th. That the total earnings -nd income of the defendant
from all sources for the year 1888 was $3,228,338. IT.

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. WELLIMAN.
Statement of the Case.

"Of this amount there was received from passenger traffic
$1,065,502 94
the sum of ..............
"And from freight traffic the
2,160,180 23
sum of ....................
2,655 00
"From miscellaneous sources...
$3,228,338 17

"Total .............................

"8th. That defendant's operating expenses for the year
1888 were .............. $2,404,516 541
"The interest paid on its bonds
661,335 36
was ................... ...
"Other necessary expenses, including interest on part of
the unfunded debt, -rental of
cars, tracks, &c ......... ... 150,305 61
$3,216;157T 51

"9th. That, in addition to the foregoing expenses, defendant paid during the year 1888,
from its earnings, on 'account of interest
on bonds not paid in previous years

12,257 94
$3,228,415 45"

In addition to this agreed statement of facts two witnesses
were called, one the traffic manager and the other the treasurer of the plaintiff in error. Their testimony. was substantially that, in view of the competition prevailing at Ohicago.
for through business, it was impossible to increase the freight
rates then charged by the company, because it would throw
the volume of business into the bands of competing roads.
Upon such agreed statement and testimony, and that alone,
the railroad company asked an instruction that the act of
1889,- referred to, was unconstitutional. The court refused
this ii'struqtion,-and - an exception to the refusal to give this

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
IOpinion-of the Court.

instruction was the solitary one taken on the trial. The
court proceeded to charge the jury that the act in question
was valid, and that the plaihntiff was entitled to a verdict and
judgment by reason of the failure of the defendant to comply
with its provisions. To this charge no exceptions were taken,
and the case went to the Supreme Court of the State on the
single exception above stated. That court -sustained the ruling of the trial court, and affirmed its judgment, 83 Michigan,
592; to reverse which judgment, the railroad company sued
out a writ of error from this court.
.AIr. Geee !F. Edmunde for plaintiff in error.
".Aeddaugkwas on the brief.

.A&.

. W.

.r. A. A. Ellis, Attorney General, of the State of Michigan,
on belalf of the State, for defendant in error.
Xtr. Tilliam T. .Aitc/ efl, for defendant in error, submitf d
on his brief.
Mn . JUSTICIy

B Ewnn delivered the opinion of the court.

The single question presented on the record is, whether the
trial court, on the facts presented, erred in refusing to instruct,
as a matter of law, that the act of 1889 was -unconstitutional.
It will be noticed that that act doei not interfere with the
rates of freight; it simply regulates passenger fares; also,
that there was no agreement that the freight rates could not
be so changed as to increase the revenues therefrom. There
was in evidence the opinion of two gentlemen, doubtless well
informed and worthy of credit, that. an increase of freight
rates was inexpedient and futile, and would tend to diminish
rather than increase the income from freight. But the question was not submitted to the jury as to whether they
believed that an increase of freight rates would work a reduction' of the incoine from freight, nor even whether they
believed that a reduction of the passenger tariff between Battle Creek and 'Port Huron would not so increase the travel as
to increase the earnings therefrom ; but the court was asked

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. WELLIAN..

343

Opinion of the Court.

to peremptoiily charge the jury that the law fixing the passenger rate waa unconstitutional. In other words, the instruction asked amounted to this, that, as matter of law, the opinion
of these two witnesses as to the effect of raising the freight
tariff upon the earnings was conclusive; that, as like matter
of law, the reduction of passenger tariffs would not so increase the amount of passenger business as to increase the
revenues, but would, on the contrary, diminish the earnings therefrom; that such reduction would operate to so far
diminish the earnings of the road as to prevent the payment
of operating expenses and fixed charges; and, therefore, that
the act was unconstitutional in its application to this company ; or else, that the legislature had no power in respect to
the matter, and that an act prescribing maximum rates was
necessarily unconstitutional, although the rates authorized
might- be so high as to enable every coifipany to pay therefrom all expenses and large dividends to stockholders.
In this connection it is worthy of note that while, by the
agreed statement, the previous passenger rate between Port
Huron and Battle Creek was $4.80, which was the same rate
per mile that defendant uniformly charged all otherf persons
for transportation upon its road, yet from the report of the
defendant, made to the State of its business for the year 1888,
and which we 6re invited by its counsel to examine, it appears
that the average rate of fare per mile for all passengers was
$.0162, being .0038 less than the maximum rate fixed by- the
act in question.
Can it be, under these circumstances, that the court erred
in peremptorily refusing to instruct the jury that an act fixing
a maximum rate at two cents per mile is unconstitutional? - Is
the validity of a law of this nature dependent upon the
opinion of two witnesses, however well qualified to testify?
Must court-and jury accept their'opinions as a finality? Must
it be declared, as matter of law, that a .reduction of rates
necessarily diminishes income? May it not be possib16indeed, does not all experience suggest the probability- that a
reduction of rates will increase the amount of business, and,
therefore, the earnings ? At any-rate, must the court assume

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

that it has no such effect; and ignoring all other considerations, hold, as niatter of law, that a reduction of rates necessarily diminishes the earnings? If the validity of such a
law in its application to a particular company depends upon a
question of fact as to its effect upon the earnings, may not the
court properly leave that question to the jury and decline to
assume that the effect is as claimed? There can be but one
answer to these questions. If the contention be that the legislature has no power in the matter,-and that an act fixing rates,
however high they may be, is necessarily unconstitutional,
it is enough to refer to the long series of cases in this court
in which the contrary has been decided.. The legislature has
power to fix rates, and the extent of judicial interference is
protection against unreasonable rates. IStone v. Farmers'Loan,
& Trust Company, 116 U. S. 307; 6%icago, .Milwauee &c.
Railway v. Minnesota, 134: "U.S.418.
The Supreme Court of Michigan iii passing upon the present
case, felt constrained to make this obrservation:
"It being evident from the record2 that this was a friendly
suit between the plaintiff and the defendant to test the constitutionality of this legislation, the attorney general, wheon it
was brought into this court upon writ of error, very properly
interposed and secured counsel to represent the public interest.
In the stipulation of facts or in the taking of testimony in the
court below neither the attorney general nor any other person
interested for or employed in behalf of the people of the State
took any part. What difference there might have been in the
record had the people been represented in the court below,
however, under our view of the case, is not of material
inquiry."
Counsel for plaintiff in error, referring to this, does not
question or deny, but says: "The attorney general speaks of
the case as evidently a friendly case, and Justice Morse, in
his opinion, also so speaks of it. This may be conceded; but
what of it? There is no ground for the claim that any fraud
or trickery has been practised in presenting the testimony."
We thirlk there is _xuch in the suggestiom The theory
upon which, apparently, this suit was brought is that parties

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. WELLMANI.

345

Opinion of the Court.

have an appeal from the legislature to the courts; and that
the latter are given an immediate and general supervision of
the constitutionality of the acts of the former. Such is not
true. Whenever, in pursuance of an honest and actual antagonistic assertion of rights by one individual against another,
there is presented a question involving the. validity of any
act of any legislature, State or Federal, and the decision neoessarily rests on the competency of the legislature to so enact,
the court must, in the exercise of its solemn duties, determine
whether the act be constitutional or not; but such an exercise
of power is the ultimate and supreme function of courts. It
is legitimate only in the last resort, and as a necessity in the
determination of real, earnest and vital controversy between
individuals. It never was the thought that, by means of a
friendly suit, a party beaten in the legislature could transfer
to the courts an inquiry as to the constitutibnality of the legislative act.
These observations are pertinent here. On the very day
the act went into force the application for a ticket is made, a
suit commenced, and within two months a judgment obtained
in the trial court; a judgment rendered not upon the presentation of all the facts from the lips of witnesses, and a full inquiry into them, but upon an agreed statement which precludes
inquiry into many things which necessarily largely enter into
the determination of the matter in controversy. A single
suggestion in this direction : It is agreed that the defendant's
operating expenses for 1888 were $2,404,516.54. Of what do
these operating expenses consist? Are they made up partially
of extravagant salaries; fifty to one hundred thousand dollars
to the president, and in like proportion to subordinate officers? Surely, before the courts are called upon to adjudge
an act of the legislature fixing tWe maximum passenger rates
for railroad companies to be unconstitutional, on the ground
that its enforcement would prevent the stockholders from
receiving any dividends on their investments, or the bondholders any interest on their loans, they should be fully advised as to what is done with the receipts and earnings of the
company; for if so advised, it might clearly appear that a

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the .Case.

prudent and honest management would, within the rates prescribed, secure to the bondholders their interest, and to the
stockholders reasonable dividends. While the protection of
vested rights of property is a supreme duty of the courts, it
has not come to this, that the legislative power rests subservient to the discretion of any railroad corporation which may,
by exorbitant and unreasonable salaries, or in some other improper way; transfer its earnings into iThat it is pleased to call
"operating expenses."
We do not mean to insinuate aught against the actual management of the affairs of this company. The .silence of the
record gives us no information, and we have no knowledge
outside -thereof, and no suspicion of wrong. Our suggestion is
only to indicate how easily courts may be misled into doing
grievous wrong to the public, and how careful they should be
to not declare legislative acts unconstitutional upon agreed
and general statements, and without the fullest disclosure of
all material facts.
______

Judgment qlrmed.

BRIGGS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 722. Subbmitted January 4, 1892.-

Decided February 29, 1892.

During the civil war two citizens of the United States, residing in loyal
States could make a valid contract for the sale or mortgage of cotton
growing on a plantation within one of the insurgent States, and such a
contract would pass existing cotton on the plantation, and also crops to
be subsequently raised thereon.
In Kentucky the common law rule prevails that a sale of personal property
is complete, and title passes as between vendor and vendee, when the
terms of transfer are agreed upon, without actual delivery.
The contract in this case for the sale of cotton growing and to be grown
did not come within the statute of "frauds, and the only question to be
decided is whether it was a contract of sale or a contract of mortgage.
The captured and abandoned property act was a surrender by the United,
States of its right as a belligerent to appropriate property of a particular kind taken in the enemy's country, and belonging to a loyal citizen.

THE court stated the case as follows:

