OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

of the defendant company, stated that "the ocean rate having
risen, defendants collected the excess on the other side and refused to account for it in any way to plaintiff, with whom
they supposed they had no contract and to whom they supposed they were Under no liability." Having been made in
this same suit, and having been used by the defendant to obtain
the order for leave to amend its answer, it was competent evidence in behalf of the plaintiff as an admission by the defendant
that the facts, stated in it were true. Having affirmed that
it was credible when used for one purpose defendant will not be
permitted to repudiate it when offered for another purpose.
Various other exceptions were taken to the admission of
testimony, but we find no error in respect to any of them.
The instruction of the court to find in favor of the plaintiff
was clearly correct, and the judgment will be
Affirmed.

SIOUX CITY AND. IOWA FALLS TOWN LOT AND
LAND COMPANY v. GRIFFEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

OF IOWA.

No. 157. Argued January 15, 18,4'892.-Decided February 1, 1892.

The grant of public land to the State of Iowa by the act of May 15, 1856,
11 Stat. 9, c. 28, "in alternate sections to aid in the construction of
certain railroads in that State" was a grant in pr'esenti, which did not
attach until the time of the filing of the map of definite location; although
the beneficiary company (under the Iowa statute) may have surveyed
and staked out upon the ground a line for its road before the filing.
The plaintiff, claiming under the said grant to the. State of Iowa, brought
an action against the defendant to recover a tract, a part of the grant.
The defendant claimed under a patent from the Vnited States subsequent
to the filing of the map of definite location, but issued on a preemption
claim made prior thereto, and filed a cross bill for quieting his title.
Held, that it was not open to the plaintiff to contest the bona fides of the
preemption settlement.

THE court stated the case as follows:

SIOUX CITY &c. LANTD COM PAINY v. GRIFFEY.

33

Statement of the Case.

On May 15, 1856, Congress passed an act granting lands to
the State of Iowa to aid in the construction of certain railroads. 11 Stat. 9, c. 28. The grant was a grant ni prwsenti,
and of alternate sections, with the familiar provision: "But
in case it shall appear that the United States have, when the
lines or routes of said roads are definitely fixed, sold any sections, or any parts thereof, granted as aforesaid, or that the
right of preemption has attached to the same, then it shall be
lawful for any agent or agents, to be appointed by the governor
of said State, to select, subject to the approval of the Secretary
of the Interi6r, from the lands of the United States nearest to
the tiers of sections above specified, so much land, in alternate
sections, or parts of sections, as shall be equal to such lands as
the United States have sold or otherwise appropriated, or to
which the rights of. preemption have attached as aforesaid."
By an act of the general assembly of Iowa, of date July 14,
1856, the Dubuque and Pacific Railway Company was made
one of the beneficiaries of this grant. By section 6 it was
provided: "The lines and routes of the several roads above
described shall be definitely fixed and located on*or before the
first day of April next after the passage of this act, and maps
or plats §howing such lines or routes shall be filed in the office
of the governor of the State of Iowa and also in the office of
the secretary of the State of Iowa. It shall be the duty of
the governor, after affixing his official signature, to file such
map in the department having the control of the public lands
in Washington, such location to be considered final only so
far as to fix the limits and boundary in which said lands may
be selected." The map of the definite location thus provided
for was not received by the officers of the State until after
Sejtember 27, 1856, and was filed at the General Land Offi~e
in IVWshington on October 13, 1856. Prior, however, to the
14th day of July, and the passage of the act making it the
beneficiary of the Congressional grant, the Dubuque and
Pacific Railroad Company had commenced the survey of its
line, and had surveyed and staked out a line upon the surface
of the ground along the land in controversy, which by such
survey was within the limits of the grant. On the 19th of
VOL. CXLIU-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

July, 1856, Griffey entered upon this land, filed his declaratory
statement, and on the 5th of September located it with a
military bounty land warrant, and received his certificate of
location.
.Mbr. T. C. Goudy for plaintiff in error.
The patent to Griffey was void. There was no authority in
the officers of the United States to issue or grant the same.
If the former grant to the railroad company was unlawful
the only way in which that question could be presented and
decided was by a resort to the courts. There was no authority
in the executive officers of the government to determine the
respective rights of the parties claiming title to the land. The
fact that a patent was issued and granted to Griffey is not
evidence that it was rightfully issued. And it no further
testimony is presented except the acts of Congress, the patents
and deeds, a court would be compelled to decide in favor of
the elder patent. If this proposition is correct, then the rights
of the parties in this litigation must be determined upon the
facts presented in evidence without any aid from the patent
issued to Griffey. Ryan v. Carter, 93 U. S. 78; WTitney v.
Morrow, 112 U. S. 693; .avgdeau v. H-anes, 21 Wall. 521;
3Ioore v. Robins, 96 U. S.530; United States v. Stone, 2 Wall.
525; ilughes v. United States, 4 Wall. 232; Urited State.q v.
Bell Tel. Co., 128 U. S.315; United States v. Schurz, 102 U.
S. 378; Bicknell v. Comstock, 113 U. S.151.
But it is claimed that the issue of the patent to Griffey in
1882 was authorized by an act of Congress of April 21, 1876.
19 Stat. 35, c. 72. The first section of that act is as follows:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America, in Congress assembled, that
all preemption and homestead entries, or entries in compliance
with any law of the United States, of the public lands, made
in good faith by actual settlers, upon tracts of land of not more
than one hundred and sixty acres each, within the limits of any
land grant, prior to the time when notice of the withdrawal of
the laaids embraced in such grant was received at the local land
office of the district in which such lands are situated, or after

SIOUX CITY &c. LAND COMPANY v. GRIFFEY.

35

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

their restoration to market by order of the General Land
Office, and where the preemption and homestead laws have
been complied with, and proper proofs thereof have been
made by the parties holding such tracts or parcels, they shall
be confirmed, and patents for the same shall issue to the parties entitled thereto."
Even if the acts of Griffey came within the language of this
act of Congress, it would not be effectual for divesting the
title of the elder grantee. It is not in the power of a legislative body to take the title from one person and invest it in
another. Te'vrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43.
The alleged preemption was under the act of 1841. This
court has held that the object of that act was to, enable actual
settlers by residence, who should enter upon the lands in good
faith to make it a permanent home, to acquire a prior right to
make entry thereof. Bokadl v. Dilla, 114 U. S. 47; Atkerton
v. Fowlei-, 96 U. S. 513.
It is claimed that Griffey entered on the land on the 19th day
of July, 1856, and erected a dwelling-house thereon; that he
moved into the house on the first or second day of September,
1856, and remained there with his family for three days, when
he left the premises and returned to his residence in Sioux
City. The testimony of Griffey himself, which was the only
evidence offered on the point in this case, shows that he lived
with his wife and one or more children in Sioux City; that he
had a trading post about two miles south of Sioux City; that
he kept a saloon, and also had a license to practice law. In
the year 1857, he removed to the west of the Missouri River
and never afterwards lived east of that river. It is very clear
that he did not comply with the preemption law.
It follows that the defendants are not entitled to relief in a
court of equity, and the decree confirming their title and,
declaring the title of the plaintiff to be null and void, was
erroneous. It is not necessary in-this court to cite authorities
to sustain the proposition that a party must come into a court
of equity with clean hands, and that he must show himself
entitled, according to the rules of such a court, to the relief
demanded.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

If the quarter section of land in controversy was in the
United States, and no right of preemption had attached to the
same, it will be conceded that the plaintiff had a good title to
it. The question for consideration is, when did the grant vest
the title in the State?
The first section of the act of May 15, 1856, granted to the
State of Iowa, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of
certain railroads mentioned therein, every alternate section
of land designated by odd numbers for six sections in width on
each side of each of said roads. It is very clear, as has been
frequently held, that this is a grant in prmesenti. There is no
condition annexed to it. The act does not require in terms
the location of the railroad, nor the filing of any plat showing the route, in any office whatever. The grant is complete
and unconditional, subject to the previously acquired rights
of purchasers or preemption settlers.
This court held in Hastings & Dakota ?ailroadCo. v. VWt'ney, 132 U. S. 357, that so long as a homestead entry valid
upon its face remains upon the record the legality of which
has been passed upon the land officers, and their action remains unreversed, it is such an appropriation of the tract as
segregates it from the public domain and prevents it from pass-ing by a grant by Congress. It therefore becomes important
to inquire whether the facts proven bring this case within the
rule laid down in that case. 'We maintain that the evidence
does not show that a right of preemption had attached to
the land in controversy. In discussing this we assume that the
grant did not attach to the particular quarter section until the
line was located.
The plaintiff's evidence shows the time at which the line of
the road was located definitely, the different stations from
Dubuque to SiouxCity. The map. shows that the line of road
was located to Independence, Iowa, between July and November 6, 1855; from Independence west to a point near Webster
City, between Ma r 30 and June 22, 1856; between Webster City
and Fort Dodge, between June 22 and 27, 1856; from Fort
Dodge, to a point on section 29, township 88, range 29, between
June 27 and June 30, 1856. The map then shows the survey

SIOUX CITY &c. LAND COMPANY v. GRIFFEY.

37

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

commenced at Sioux City on the 5th day of July, 1856, and to
have been located between that point and the station in section 29, township 88, range 29, between that date and the 5th
of August, 1856. It appears, from the map as well as from
the testimony, that the line from Sioux City eastward and by
the tract of land in controversy was located by the engineer
on the 5th day of July, 1856. The road was actually constructed on the route so located, and there has never been any
change therefrom.
, The Secretary of the Interior, by a letter dated the 4th of
February, 18 57, asked the opinion of the attorney general as
to the construction of the land grant act. The attorney general, by letter of the 16th of February, 1857, gave it as his
opinion "that by surveying and marking the lines on the
ground those lines are definitely fixed" so as "to give to the
State an equitable or inchoate title to the defendant lands,
equal in right, at least, to that which any preemptor gains by
commencing actual settlement." This view was adopted by
the government. Following it the commissioner vacated and
cancelled the alleged entry and preemption of Griffey. This
came to Griffey's kriowledge in the month in which it was
made, and he took no appeal. The law was thus settled as far
as it could be by the executive officers, and there was no decision of any court to the contrary.
It is most earnestly insisted that the construction given to
the act of Congress by the executive officers of the government at that time was the correct one.
Several decisions of this court are relied upon to establish
the proposition that the title could not pass from the United
States and vest in the State of Iowa until the 13th of October,
1856. when the map or plat showing the route was lodged in
the General Land Office.
An examination of these opinions will show that in the cases
before the court there was an express provision requiring the
filing of the map, to make the definite location of the line of
route, or that it was made the duty of the government officer
to withdraw the lands from market upon filing such a map.
It is sufficient to say that whatever the rule laid down by

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

these cases, decided since 1865, even if it applies directly
to the ease now before the court, it will not be allowed
to disturb the rules of law established, prior to that time,
and according to which the title to the lands had passed from
the United States. This would be more than retroactive legislation. It would be the establishment of rules by decisions
of court, contrary to the rule of stare decisis, and having
retroactive effect so as to divest title to land, and change the

rules of property.
Mr. S. S. Burdett (with whom was X,

0. C. Treadway

on the brief) for defendants in error.

M. JusTio Br.EWER delivered the opinion of the court.
The first and principal question is at what time the title of
the railroad company attached, whether at the time the map
of definite location was filed in the General Land Office at
Washington, or when, prior thereto, its line was surveyed and
staked out on the surface of the ground. While the question
in this precise form has never been before this court, yet the
question as to the time at which the title attaches, under grants
similar to this, has been often presented, and the uniform ruling has been that it attaches at the time of the filing of the
map of definite location. Grinnell v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S.
739; ran Tyck v. -nevals, 106 V. S. 360, 366; .Kansas Pacific Railway Co. v .Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629, 634; Walden
v. Knevals, 114 U. S. 373; United States v. .fissouri, Kansas
&c. Railway, 141 U. S. 358, 375.
In Van TFyck v. Jnevals, where the question arose between
Knevals, the grantee of the railroad company, and Van Wyck,
who had: entered the lands at -the local land office after the
filing of the map of definite location with the Land Department, but before notice thereof had been received at such local
laud office, this court sail : "The route must be considered as
'definitely fixed' when it has ceased to be the subject of
change at the volition of the company. Until the map is
filed with the Secretary of the Interior the company is at

SIOUX CITY-&c. LAND COMPANY v. GRIFFEY.

89

Opinion of the Court.

liberty to adopt such a route as it may deem best, after an
examination of the ground has disclosed the feasibility and
advantages of different lines. But when a route is adopted by
the company, and a map designating it is filed with the Secretary of the Interior and accepted by that officer, the route is
established; it is, in the language of the act, Idefinitely fixed,'
and cannot be the subject of future change, so as to affect the
grant, except upon legislative consent." And in Pcifc .Rai,
way Co ,pany v. D 'nmeyew, it is also said: "We are of
opinion, that under this grant, as under many other grants
containing the same words, or words to the same purport, the
act which fixes the time of definite location is the act of filing
the map or plat of this line in the office of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office. The necessity of having certainty
in the act fixing this time is obvious. Up to that time the
right of the company to no definite section, or part of section,
is fixed. Until then many rights to the land along which the
road finally runs may attach, which will be paramount to that
of the company building the road. After this no such rights
can attach, because the right of the company becomes by that
act vested. It is important, therefore, that this act fixing,
these rights shall be one which is open to inspection. At the
same time it is an act to be done by the company. The
company makes its own preliminary and final surveys by its
own officers. It selects for itself the precise line on which the
road is to be built, .Andit is by law bound to report its action
by filing its map with the commissioner, or rather in his
office. The line is then fixed. The company cannot alter it
so as to affect the rights of any other party."
The reasoning of these opinions is applicable here. The
fact that the company has surveyed and staked a line upon
the grouned does not conclude it. It may survey and stake
many, and finally determine the line upon which it will build
by a comparison of the cost and advantages of each; and only
when by filing its map it has communicated to the government knowledge of its selected line, is it concluded by its
action. Then, so far as the purposes of the land grant are
concerned, is its line defi.nitely fixed; and" it cannot thereafter,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

without the consent of the government, change that line so
as to affect titles accruing thereunder. In accordance with
these decisions it must, therefore, be held, that the line was
not definitely fixed until the 13th of October, 1856.
Inasmuch as Griffey's preemption right had attached to
this land prior to such time, it did not pass to the railroad
company under the grant; and it was a matter of no moment
to the company what thereafter became of the title. This is
settled by the case of PacifA Railway Company v. Dunmeyer,
in which it was said: "It is not conceivable that Congress
intended to place these parties as coptestants for the land,
with the right in each to require proof from the other of
complete performance of its obligation. Least of all is it to be
supposed that it was intended to raise up, in antagonism to all
the actual settlers on the coil, whom it had invited to its occupation, this great corporation, with an interest to defeat their
claims, and to come between them and the government as to
the performance of their obligations." And, again: "Of all
the words in the English language, this word attacked was
probably the best that could have been used. It did not mean
mere settlement, residence or cultivation of the land, but it
meant a proceeding in the proper land office, by which the
inchoate right to the land was initiated. It meant that by
such a proceeding a right of homestead had fastened to that
land, which could ripen into a perfect title by future residence
and cultivation. With the performance of these conditions
the company had nothing to do. The right of the homestead
having dttached to the land it was excepted out of the grant
as much as if in a deed it had been excluded from the conveyance by metes and bounds." See also Hastings & Dakota
Railroad v. Wiitney, 132 U. S. 357, in which was a similar
ruling.
The only other question we deem important is this: On
July 5; 1871, the State of Iowa issued a patent, under which
plaintiff in error claims, and on June 30, 1882, the United
States issued a patent to Griffeyr, which is the basis of defendants' title. The defendants filed, as was authorized under
the Iowa statute, a cross-petition, praying to quiet their title,

SIOUX CITY &c. LAND COMPANY'v. GRIFFEY.

41

Opinion of the Court.

and the decree entered was one dismissing the plaintiff's bill
and quieting defendants' title.
Now, it is claimed that ..Griffey never complied with the
preemption laws; that he never made a bon a 9tde settlement;
that he secured his preemption rights by false representations
and a pretended settlement; that he does not come into a
court of equity with clean hands, and is entitled to no relief ;
and that, therefore, there was error in entering a decree in
favor of the defendants upon the cross-petition. But -as we
have seen, Griffey did inake a settlement, file his declaratory
statement and thus initiate -a preemption right. By these
means such preemption right had, in the language of the
statute, attached. The land, therefore, did not pass under the
railroad grant. It was no matter of interest to the company
what became of the title. The government, the owner of the
land, was satisfied with what Griffey had done, took from him
its land warrant as payment, and patented the land. Into the
bonclfdIes of this transaction, no one but the government can
inquire. As the title was beyond challenge on the part of
the railroad company, it had no right to cast a cloud thereupon, and having done so by accepting a patent from the
State of Iowa, under the pretence that the land was a part of
the grant made to that State, and having affirmed the validity
of the title conveyed by such patent, it does, not lie in its
*mouth, or with those claiming under it, to now object to a
decree removing all cloud cast by such patent.
. We see no error in the rulings of the Supreme Court of
Iowa, andits judgment is

.ffirmed.

