OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

matter, and is not for the legislative branch of the government
to determine. Authorities last cited. The act of January 31,
1883, did not profess to reenact the provisions of ยง 354, and
we do not think there is anything in that act running counter
to the view we have taken in this case of the repeal of that
se~tion by the act of 1878.
It is further argued that if said-ยง 354 be considered repealed
by the act of 1878, then certain other named sections of the
Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia must
also be held to be repealed, and that certain evil consequences
will flow from such ruling with respect to those specified sections. That, however, is a consideration not properly involved
in this case. Whether those specified sections or any others
of said Revised Statutes were repealed by the act of 1878 we
do not now decide. Our decision and judgment has reference
solely to section 354. It will be time enough to consider other
questions. when they are properly before us.
Judgment affirmwd.

NATIONAL STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. TUGMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 150. Argued January 11. 1892. -Decided

February 1, 1892.

In a case reversed in this court and remanded to a state court upon the
ground that that court had lost its jurisdiction by petition and bond for
removal, the propriety of staying proceedings in the Circuit Court after
,removal, until costs adjudged in the state court hre paid, is purely a
matter of discretion in the Circuit Court
On the trial of an action to recover from a carrier freights improperly col1
lected from the consignees on shipments by plaintiff, plaintiff, who was his
own witness, was asked several questions with the apparent design of
showing that he had had other transactions with the defendant, upon
which he was indebted to defendant, and that there was a judgment pending against him in favor of defendant. Held,that these questions were not
admissible.
It being shown that a paper was served as a copy of an affidavit on behalf
of the defendant, with an order tWshow cause in the action on trial, it is

NATIONAL- STEAMSHIP (O. v. TUGMAN.
Opinion of the Court.
thereby sufficiently authenticated to enable it to be read in evidence
against him, and it is competent evidence on behalf of the plaintiff as
an admission by the defendant that the facts stated in the affidavit are
true.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

111>. John Chetwood for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Delos .IcCu d'y for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTME BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action t law originally begun in the Supreme
Court of the State of New York, Kings County, by the plaintiff Tugman, to recover of the National Steamship Company,
defendant, for the conversion of freights alleged to'have been
wrongfully and fraudulently collected from the consignees of
certain cargoes shipped by the plaintiff upbn the defenaant's
vessels. Upon entering its appearance the defendant filed a
petition and bond for the removal of the action to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of New
York upon the ground of the citizenship of the plaintiff and
its own alienage. The removal was denied by the state court,
the case tried and judgment rendered in favor of the plaintiff,
which was affirmed by the General Term, and again by the
Court of Appeals. A writ of error was thereupon. sued out
from this court, and the case reversed with $108.34 dosts, upon
the ground that the state court lost its jurisdiction by the petition and bond for removal. The case was remanded to the
state court with direction to accept the bond and "proceed nio
further in the cause." 106 U. S. 118.
On filing themandate of this court in the Supreme Court of
New York, the defendant steamship company had its costs
taxed at $1206.33, including an extra allowance of $500 ordered
by the court, and a judgment was entered in that court for this
sum. A transcript having been filed in the Circuit Court of
the United States, and the case coming on for trial, the defendant moved for a stay of proceedings until its costs were paid,
and the court ordered a stay until the payment of the costs,
$108.34, in this court only. 30 Fed. Rep. 802. Defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

declined to receive this amount, whereupon the stay was vacated, the case went to trial, and plaintiff recovered a verdict
and judgment under the direction of the court for $7549.59.
To reverse this judgment the defendant sued out a writ of
error from this court.
(1) The first assignment of error of the steamship company
is to the refusal of the court to stay proceedings on the part
of the plaintiff until the payment of the costs in the state
courts, as taxed. We do not deem it necessary to express an
opinion whether, in view of our .mandate to accept the bond
for removal and proceed no further in the ease, the state court
had jurisdiction to enter up. a judgment for costs against the
plaintiff in that court, since the propriety of staying proceedings until payment of these costs, whether evidenced by a
judgment or by a simple taxation, was purely a matter of discretion in the court below. There were certain reasons why,
in the exercise of a sound discretion, that -court might refuse
such stay. The plaintiff had obtained a judgment in the state
court which had been affirmed by the General Term and the
Court of Appeals. Such judgment, it is true, had been reversed by this court, not by reason of any want of merits,
however, but for the failure of that court to recognize a removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States.
Under such circumstances, and in view of the apparent inability of the plaintiff to pay these costs, it was perfectly competent for the court to permit him to go on with the case upon
the assumption that, if he succeeded in obtaining a judgment,
the right, if it had any, of defendant to such costs could be
secured by deducting them from such judgment. The result
of the trial having been again adverse to the diefendant, it certainly has no right to complain of that which could work it
no possible injury.
(2) Upon the examination of the plaintiff, who was his own
witness, he was asked several questions with the apparent design of showing that he had had transactions with the defendant in New York, upon which he was indebtedto it, and that
ther6 was a judgment pending against 'him in favor of the
defendant.- This was clearly immaterial. The fact that he

NATIONAL STEAMSHIP CO. v. TUGMA_.
Opinion of the Court.

was indebted to the defendant in other transactions had no tendency to show that he had not a valid claim against it in this
one. If offered for the purpose of showing a conspiracy between plaintiff and defendant's agent, Carhart, to defraud the
defendant, it is sufficient to say that. this would constitute an
independent defence, and one which was not set up in the
answer, and was not admissible under a general denial.
Nor were the answers to these questions admissible to show
his interest in the suit, since, being himself the plaintiff, that
was already clearly manifest.
(3) There was no error in admitting the affidavit of Hurst.
It seems that on the trial in the state court before a referee
an order was obtained by the defendant upon the plaintiff to
show cause why the answer should not be amended by setting
up a conspiracy between plaintiff and defendant's agent; that
the affidavit of Hurst was made in support of this order; and
that a copy of said order was served upon plaintiff with the
copy of this affidavit, which was the copy offered in evidence.
Its admissibility being objected to upon the ground that it had
not been properly proved, the plaintiff called as his own witness
Mr. Chetwood, the attorney for defendant, who testified that
he was unable to produce the original of the affidavit because
it was upon the files of the state court; that he thought the
copy was in the handwriting of a clerk who was in the office
at the time; and that he presumed that the paper offered in
evidence was the copy served on the other side with the order
to show cause. His testimony was also corroborated by that of
his managing clerk, who also swore that it was in the handwriting of one of the clerks in the office, and that he had o
doubt it was a copy of the affidavit which was served wrh
the order to show cause. The.fact that the paper offered hi
evidence was served as a copy of the affidavit with the :order
to show cause in this same suit was sufficient evidence of its
authenticity to enable it to be read against the defendant, who
made use of it to obtain the order. Rnsurctne Co. v. Arwton,
22 Wall. 32; Richtelie t Vav. Co. v. Bostwn ns. Co., 136 U. S.
408.
The affidavit which was made by the sole managing agent

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

of the defendant company, stated that "the ocean rate having
risen, defendants collected the excess on the other side and refused to account for it in any way to plaintiff, with whom
they supposed they had no contract and to whom they supposed they were Under no liability." Having been made in
this same suit, and having been used by the defendant to obtain
the order for leave to amend its answer, it was competent evidence in behalf of the plaintiff as an admission by the defendant
that the facts, stated in it were true. Having affirmed that
it was credible when used for one purpose defendant will not be
permitted to repudiate it when offered for another purpose.
Various other exceptions were taken to the admission of
testimony, but we find no error in respect to any of them.
The instruction of the court to find in favor of the plaintiff
was clearly correct, and the judgment will be
Affirmed.

SIOUX CITY AND. IOWA FALLS TOWN LOT AND
LAND COMPANY v. GRIFFEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

OF IOWA.

No. 157. Argued January 15, 18,4'892.-Decided February 1, 1892.

The grant of public land to the State of Iowa by the act of May 15, 1856,
11 Stat. 9, c. 28, "in alternate sections to aid in the construction of
certain railroads in that State" was a grant in pr'esenti, which did not
attach until the time of the filing of the map of definite location; although
the beneficiary company (under the Iowa statute) may have surveyed
and staked out upon the ground a line for its road before the filing.
The plaintiff, claiming under the said grant to the. State of Iowa, brought
an action against the defendant to recover a tract, a part of the grant.
The defendant claimed under a patent from the Vnited States subsequent
to the filing of the map of definite location, but issued on a preemption
claim made prior thereto, and filed a cross bill for quieting his title.
Held, that it was not open to the plaintiff to contest the bona fides of the
preemption settlement.

THE court stated the case as follows:

