NEBRASKA v. IOWA.
Statement of the Case.

vides that if the transaction was intended only as security Tor
indebtedness and against contingent' liabilities, Pnly'such p6rtion of the proceeds should be awarded to the petitioner as
would satisfy the debts and claims'of the testator, to' secure
which the assignment, as it is termed in the act,.was made.
The case, therefore, will be
Beversed, and sent back to the Court of Claims,with instructionstopass uipon the question, whether the transactionwas
an absolute sale or merely.a, mortgage or pledge; and according to the viewadopted the amount of the proceedsdue
and payable to the petitioner should be ascertained, and it,
is so ordered..

NEBRASKA v. IOWA.
ORIGINAL.
No.4. Original. Argoed January 29, 1892.-Decided February 29, 1892.
When grants of land border on running water, and the banks are changed
by the gradual process known -as uccretlon, the riparian owner's boundary-line still remains the stream; but when the boundiry stream suddenly abandons its old bed and seeks a new course by the process known
as avulsion, the boundary remains as it was, in the centre of the old
channel: and this rule applies to a State when a river forms one of its
boundary lines.
The law of accretion controls on the Missouri River, as elsewhere; but the
change in the course of that river in 1877 between Omaha and Councilt
Bluffs does not come within the law of accretiol, but within that of avulsion.

THE court stated the case as Wlows:

This is an original suit brought in this court by the State of
Nebraska against the State of Iowa, the object of which is to
have the boundary line between the two States determined.
Iowa was admitted into the Union in 1846, and its westernboundary as defined by the act of admission was the middle
of the main channel of the Missouri River. Nebraska was ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Oruion of the Court.

mitted in 1867, and its eastern boundary was likewise the
middle of the channel of the Missouri River. Between 1851
and 1877, in the vicinity of Omaha, there were marked
changes in the course of this channel, so that in the latter
year it occupied a very different bed from that through which
it flowed in the former year. Out of these changes has come
this litigation, the respective States claiming jurisdiction over
the same tract of land. .Tothe bill filed by the State of
Nebraska the State of Iowa answered, alleging that this disputed ground was part of its territory, and also filed a crossbill,' praying affirmative relief, establishing its -jurisdiction
thereof, to which cross-bill the State of Nebraska answered.
:Replications were duly filed and proofs taken.
.21b. T .. woolwort for the State of.Nebraska. Xh. C. J
Greene and the Attorney Generalof that State were with him
on the brief, in which were cited J~feris v. Eat Omaa Land
Co., 134 U. S. 178; 8 Opinions Attorneys General, 177;
Indiana,v. Eentucky, 136 U. S.479.

Xr. smitHfcPhersonfor the State of Iowa. The Attorney
General of that State and .r. J J. Stewart were with him on
the brief, in .which were cited St. Loui8 v. Butz, 138 U. S.
226; X fuy v. -Yorton, 100 N.,Y. 424.
MR.

JusTo, B E

ER

delivered the opinion of the court.

7t is settled law, that -when grants of land border on runniig water, and the banks are changed by that gradual
process known as accretion, the riparian owner's boundary
line still remains the stream, although, during the years, by
this accretion, the actual area of his possessions may vary. In
New Orleans v. United States, 10 Pet. 662 717, this court
said: "The question is, well settled at common law, that the
person who6se land is .ounded by-a'-stream of water which
changes its course gradually by alluvial formations, shall still
hold by the same boundary, including ihe accumulated soil.
No other rule can, be applied on just principles. Every pro-

NEBRASKA v. IOWA.
Opinion of the Court.

prietor whose land is thus bounded is subject to loss by the
same means which may add to his territory'; and, as he is
without renedy for his loss in this way, he cannot be held
accountable for his gain." (See also Jones v. Soulard, 24
How. 41; Banks v. Ogden, 2 Wall. 57; Saulet v. Shepherd, 4
Wall.. 502; St. Clair County v. Lovingston, 23 Wall. 46; Jefferi8 v. East Olama Land Co., 131 U. S! 178.)
It is equally well settled, that where a. stream, which is. a
boundary, from any cause suddenly abandons its old and seeks
a new bed, such change of channel works no change of boundary; and that the boundary remains as it was, in the centre
of the old channel, although no water may be flowing therein.
This sudden and rapid change of channel is termed, in the
law, avulsion. In Gould on Waters, sec. 159, it is said: "But
if the change is violent and visible, and arises from a known
cause, such as a freshet, or a cut through which a new channel
is formed, the original thread of the stream continues to mark
the limits of the two estates." 2 Bl. Com. 262; Angell on
Water Courses, § 60; Trustees of Hopkins' Academy v. Dickinson, 9 Cush. 544; Buttenuta v. 8t. Louis B'idge Co., 123
Illinois, 535; Ragan v. Campbell, 8 Porter (Ala.) 9; urry v.
Sermon, 1 Hawks (h.0.) 56.
.These propositions, which are universally recognized as correct where the boundaries of private property touch on streams,
are in like manner recognized where the boundaries between
States or nations are, by prescription or treaty, found in running water, Accretion, no matter to which side it adds ground,
leaves the boundary still the centre of the channel. Avulsion
has no effect on boundary, but leaves it in the centre of the
old channel. In volume 8, Opinions of Attorneys General, 175,
177, this matter received exhaustiveconsideration. A dispute
arose between our government and Mexico, in consequence of
changes in the Rio Bravo. The matter having been referred
to Attorney General Cushing,.he replied at length. - We quote
largely from that opinion. After stating tlhe case, he proceeds:
"With such conditions, whatever changes happen to either
bank of the river by accretion on the one or,*legradation of
the other, that is, by the gradual, and, as it were, insensible

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

accession or abstraction of mere particles, the river as it runs
continues to be the boundary. One country may, in process
of time, lose a little of its territory, and the other gain a little,
but the territorial relations cannot be reversed by such imperceptible mutations in the course of the river. The general
aspect of things remains unchanged. And the convenience of
allowing the river to retain its previous function, notwithstanding such insensible changes in its course, or in either of
its .banks, outweighs the inconveniences, even td the injured
party, involved in a detriment, which, happening gradually, is
inappreciable in the successive moments of its progression.
"But, on the other hand, if, 'deserting its original bed, the
river forces for itself a new channel in another direction, then
the nation, through whose territory the river thus breaks its
way, suffers injury by the loss of territory greater than the
'benefit of retaining the natural river boundary, and that boundary remains inthe middle of' the deserted river bed. For, in
truth, just as a stone pillar constitutes a boundary, not because
it is a stone, but because of the place in which it stands, so a
river is made the limit of nations, not because it is running
water bearing a certain geographical name, but because it is
water flowing in a given channel, and within given banks,
which are the real international boundary.
"Such is the received rule of the law of nations on this
point, as laid down by all the writers of authority. (See ex.
gr. Puffend. Jus. Nat. lib. iv, cap. 7, s. ii; Gkindling, Jus. Nat.
p. 248; Wolff, Jus. Gentium, s. 106-109; Vattel, Droit des.
Gem,liv. i, chap. 22, s. 268, 270; Stypmanni, Jus. Marit. cap.
v. n. 476-552; Rayneval, Droit de la Nature, tom. i, p. 307;
Merlin, R6pertoire, ss. voc. alluv.)"
Further reference is made in the opinion to the following
authorities:
"Don Antonio Riquelme states the' doctrine as follows:
"'When a river changes its 'course, directing its currents
through the teiritory of one of the two coterminous States,
the-bed which it leaves dry remains the property of the State
(or States) to which the river belonged, that being retained as
the limit between the two nations, and'the river enters so far

NEBRASKA v. IOWA.

363.

Opinion of the Court.

into the exclusive dominion of the nation through whose territory it takes the new course. Nations must, of necessity,
submit their rights to these great alterations which nature
.
But, when the change
predisposes and consummates.
is
is not total, but progressive only, that to say, when the river
does not abandon either State, but only gradually shifts its
course by accretions, then it continues still to be the boundary,
and the augmentation of territory, which one country gains at
the expense of the other, is to be held by it as a new acquisition of property.' (Derecho Internacional, tom. i, p. 83.)
"Don Andres Bello and Don Jos6 Maria de Pando both
enunciate the doctrine in exactly the same words, namely:
"'When a river or lake divides two territories, whether it
belong in common to the conterminous riparian States, or they
possess it by halves, or one of them occupies it exclusively, the
rights, which either has in the lake or river, do not undergo
any change by reason of alluvion. The lands insensibly invaded by the water are lost by one of the riparian States, and
those which the .water abandons on the opposite bank increase
the domain of the other State. But if, by any natural accident, the water, which separated the two States, enters of a
sudden into-the territory of the other, it will thenceforth
belong to the State whose soil it occupies, and the land, including the abandoned. river-channel or bed, will incur no
change of master.' (Bello, Derecho Internacional, p. 38;
Pando, Derecho Internacional, p. 99.)
"Almeda refers to the same point, briefly, but in decisive
terms. He says:
"'As the river belongs to the two nations, so,' also, the
river-bed, if by chance it become dry, is divided between them
as proprietors. When the river changes its cburse, throwing
itself on one of two conterminous states, it then comes to
belong to the state through whose territory it runs, all community of right in it so far ceasing.' Derecho Publico, tom.
i. p. 199.
"Leaving authorities of this class, then, let us come to those
which discuss the question in its relation to' jrivate rights,
and as a doctrine of municipal jurisprudence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

"The doctrine is transmitted to us from the laws of Rome.
(Justinian, Inst. lib. ii, tit. i, s. 20-241; Dig. lib. xii, tit. i,1. 1.
See J. Voet ad Pandect. tom. i, p. 606, 607. Heinec. Recit.
lib. ii, tit. 2, s. 358-369; Struvii Syntag. ex. 41, c. 33-25;
Bowyers's Civil Law, ch. 14.)
"Don Alfonso transferred it from the civil law to the
Partidas.. (Partida iii, tit. 28, 1. 31.) Thus it came to be, as
it still remains, an established element of the laws of Spain
and of Mexico. (Alvarez, Instituciones, lib. ii- tit. i, s. 6;
Asso,.Instituciones, p. 101; Gomez de la Serna, Elementos,
lib. ii,tit. 4, see 3, no. 2; Escriche, Dic. s. vocc. accession,
natural, alluvion, avulsion; Febrero Mexicano, tom. 1, p. 161;
Sala Mexicano, ed. 1845, tom. ii, p. -62.)
"'The same doctrine, starting from the same point of departure, made its way through the channel of Bract on, into
the laws of England, and thence to the United States. (Bracton de Legg. Angliae, lib. 2, cap. 2, fol. 9; Blacks. Comm. vol.
ii, p. 262; Woolrych on Waters, p. 34; Angell on Water
Courses, 6h. 2; Lynch v. Allen, 4 De. & Bat. N. C. R. p. 62;
Murry v. Sermon, I Hawks, N. 0. R. p. 56; The Zing v.
Lord Scarborougk, 3 B. & C. p. 91; S. C. 2 Bligh, N. S. p. 147.
"Such, beyond all possible controversy, is the public law
of modern Europe and America, and sueh, also, is the municipal law both of the-:exican Republic and the United States."
Yrattel states th "rule-thus (Book 1, c. 22, sees. 268, 269,
270)':
268. Du droit d'alluvion.
S~le territoire qui aboutit A un fleuve limitrophe n'a point d'antres limites
que le fleuve m6me, 11est au nombre des territoires A limites naturelles, on
ind~termin~s (territorid arcifinia), et iljouit du droit; c'est-A-dire que les
atterrissements qui peuvent's'y former peu Apen par le cours du.fieuve, les
accroissements insensibles, font des accroissements de ce territoire, qui en
suivent la condition et appartiennent an m6me maitre. Car si je m'empare
d'un terrain en d~clarant que je veux pour limites le fteuve qni le baigne,
ou s'il m'est donn6 sur ce pie4.lA, j'occupe par celO mme d'avance le droit
d'alluvion, et, par con6quent, je puis seul m'approprier tout ce que le courant de l'eau ajoutera insensiblement A mon terrain,,' Je dis insensible'ment,
parce que dans le cas tr~s-rare que l'on nomme avu son,lorsque la violence
de l'eau d6tache une portion considerable dWun fonds et Ia joint A une autre,
1

NEBRASKA v. IOWA.
Opinion of the Court.

"If a territory which terminates on a river has no other
boundary than that river, it is one of those territories that
have natural or indeterminate bounds (territorid arci nia),
and it enjoys the right of alluvion; that is to say, every
gradual increase of soil, every addition which the current of
the river may make to its bank on that side, is an addition to
that territory, stands in the same predicament, with it, and
belongs to the same owner. For, if I take possession of a
piece of land, declaring that I will have for its boundary the
river which washes its side -or if it is given to me upon that
footing, I thus acquired beforehand the right of alluvion; and,,
consequently, I alone may appropriate to myself whatever
additions the current of the river may insensibly make to my
en sorte qu'elle est encore reconnaissable, cette piece de terre demeure
naturellement A son premier maitre. De particuler A particulier, les lois
iviles ont pr~vu et d~cid6 le cas; ils doivent combiner l'6quit6 avec le bien
de l'ltat et le soin de pr~venir les proc~s.
En cas de doute, tout territoire aboutissant A un fleuve est pr6sum6
n'avoir d'autres limites que le fleuve m~me, parce que rien n'est plus naturel
que de le prendre pour bornes, quand on s'6tablit sur ses bords; et dans le
doute, on presume toujours ce qui est plus naturel et plus profitable.
§ 269. Si l'alluvion apporte quelque changement aux droits sur le fleuve.
Ds qu'il est 6tabli qu'un fleuve fait la s~paraton de deux territoires,
soit qu'il demeure commun aux deux riverains opposes, soit qu'ils le partagent par moiti6, soit enfln qu'il appartienne tout entier A l'un des deux,
les divers droits sur le fleuve ne souffrent aucun changement par l'alluvion.
S'il arrive done que, par un effet naturel du courant, l'un des deux territoires
reqoive de l'accroissement, tandis que le fleuve gagne peu & pen sur la rive
oppos~e, le fleuve demeure la borne naturelle des deux territoires, et chacun
y conserve ses m~mes droits, malgr6 son d~placement successif; en sorte,
par exemple, que s'il est partag6 par le milieu entre les deux riverains, ce
milieu, quoiqu'il ait chang6 de place, continuera A etre la ligne"de separation
des deux voisins. L'un perd, i1 est vrai, tandis que l'autre gagne; mais la
nature seule fait ce changement: elle d6truit le terrain de l'un, pendant
qu'elle en forme un nouveau pour l'autre. ' La chose ne pent pas 6tre autrement d~s qu'on a pri-le fleuve seul pour limites.
§ 270. De ce qui arrive quand le fleuve change son cours.
Mais si, au lieu d'un d~placement successif, le fleuve, par un accident
purement naturel, se d6tourne entirement de son cours, et se jette dans
l'un des deux ttats voisins, le lit qu'il abandonne reste alors pour limites;
il demeure an maitre du fleuve (§ 267). Le fleuve p6rit dans tonte cette
partie, tandis qu'il nait dans son nouveau lit, et qu'il y naIt" uniquement
pour l'ttat dans lequel ii coule.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

land. I say ' insensibly,' because, in the very untommon case
called avulsion, when the iolence of the stream separates a
considerable part from one. piece of land and joins it to
another, but in such manner that it can still be identified, the
property of the soil so removed naturally continues vested. in
its former owner. The civil laws have thus provided against
and decided this case, when it happens between individual
and individual; th4y ought to unite equity with the welfare
of the state, .and the care of preventing litigations."In case of doubt, every territory terminating on a river is
.presumed to lave no other boundary than. the river itself;
because nothing is more natural than to take a river for a
boundary, when a settlement is made; and wherever there is
i doubt, that is always to b6 presumed which is most natural
and most probable.
:"As soon as it is determined that a river constitutes the
boundary line between two territories, whethr it remains.
common to the inhabitants on each of its banks, or whether
each shares half of it, or, finally, whether it belongs entirely
to one of them, their rights, with respect to the river, are ins
nowise changed by the alluvion. If, therefore, it happens
that, by a natural effect of the current, one of the two territories receives an increase, while the river gradually encroaches
on the opposite bank, the river still remains the natural boundary of the two tekrritories, and, notwithstanding the progressive changes in its course, each retains .over it the same
rights which it possessed before; so that, if, for instance, it be
divid 9 d in the middle 'between the owners of the opposite
bank-,, that middle, though it changes its place, will continue
to be the line of separation between the two neighbors. The
one loses, it is true, while the other gains.; but nature alone
produces this change; she destroys the 'land of the. one, .while
she, forms new land for the other. The case cannot be otherwise determined, since they have taken the river alone for
their limits.
"But. if, instead of a gradual and progressive change of its
bed,, the river, by an accident merely natbral, turns entirely
out of its course and runs into one of the twcineighboring

NEBRASKA v. IOWA.
Opinion of thd Court.

States, the bed which it has abandoned becomes thenceforward their boundary, and remains the property of the former
owner of the river, (see. 267,) the river itself is, as it were,
annihilated in all that part while it is reproduced in its new
bed, and there belongs only to the State in which it flows."
The result of these authorities puts it beyond doubt that
accretion on an ordinary river would leave the boundary between two States the varying centre of the channel, and that
avulsion would establish a fLxed boundary, to wit: the centre
of the abandoned channel. It is contended, however, that the
doctrine of accretion has no application to the Missouri River,
on account of the rapid and great changes constantly going
on in respect to its banks; but the contrary has already been
decided by this court in Jeerisv. Land &orany,13i U. S.
178. 189. A question between individuals, growing out of
changes in the very place now in controversy, was 'then before
this court; and in the opinion, after referring to the general
rule, it was observed : "It is contended by the defendant that
this well settled rule is not applicable to land which borders
on the Missouri River, because,of the peculiar character of
that stream and of the soil through which it flows, the course
of the river being tortuous, the current rapid, and the soil a
soft, sandy loam, not protected from the action of water
either by rocks or the roots of trees; the effect being that the
river cuts away its banks, sometimes in a large body, and
makes for itself a new course, while the earth thus removed is
almost simultaneously deposited elsewhere, and new land is
formed almost as rapidly as the former bank was carried
away. But it has been held by this court that the general
law of accretion is applicable to land on the Mississippi River;
and, that being so, although the changes on the Missouri River
are greater and more rapid than on the Mississippi, the difference does not constitute such a difference in principle as to
render inapplicable to the Missouri River the general rule of
law." It is true that that case came here on demurrer to a
bill, and it was alleged in the bill that the land was formed by
"imperceptible degrees," and that the proces§ of accretion
"went on so slowly that it could not be observed in its pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

"

gress; but, at intervals of not less than three or more months,
it could be discerned by the eye that additions greater or less
had been made to the shore." The state of facts disclosed by
this averment was held not to take the case out of the law
concerning accretion, and, after referring to some English
authorities, it was said: " T he doctrine of the English cases
is, that accretion is an addition to land coterminous with the
water, which is formed so slowly that its progress cannot be
perceived' and does not admit of the view that in order to be
accretion the formation must be one not discernible by comparison at two distant. points of time." And then was quoted
from the opinion in St. Clair v. 1ovingston, 23 Wall. 46, these
words: "The test as to what is gradual and imperceptible in
the sense 'of the rule is, that though the witnesses may see
from time to time that progress has been. made, they could
not perceive it while the process was going on."
The case before us is presented on testimony, and not on
allegation. But what are the facts apparent from that testimony? The Missouri River is a winding stream, coursing
through a valley of varying width, the substratum of whose
soil, a deposit of distant centuries, is largely of quicksand. In
building the -bridge of the Union Pacific Railway Company
across the Missouri River, in the vicinity of the tracts in controversy, the builders went down to the solid rock, sixty-five
feet below the surface, and there found a pine log a foot and
a half in diameter -of course, a deposit made in the long
ago. The current is rapid, far above the average of ordinary,,
rivers; and by reason of the snows in the mountains there art
two well known rises in the volume of its waters, known as
the-April and June rises. The large volume of kater pouring
down at the time of these rises, with the rapidity of its current, has great and rapid action- upon the loose soil of its
banks. Whenever it impinges with direct attack upon the
bank at a bend of the stream, and that bank is of the loose
sand obtaining in the valley of the Missouri, it is not strange
that the abrasion and washing away is rapid and great. Frequently, where above the loose substratum of sand there is a
deposit of comparatively solid soil, the washing out of the

NEBRASKA v. IOWA.
Opinion of the Court.

underlying sand causes an instantaneous fall of quite a length
and breadth of the superstratum of soil into the river; so that

it may, in one sense of the term, be said that the diminution
of the banks is not gradual and imperceptible, but sudden and
visible. Notwithstanding this, two things must be borne in
mind, familiar to all dwellers on the banks of the Missouri
River, and disclosed by the testimony: that, while there may
be an instantaneous and obvious dropping into the river of
quite a portion of its banks, such portion is not carried down
the stream as a solid and compact mass, but disintegrates and
separates into particles of earth borne onward by the flowing
water, and giving to the stream that color which, in the history of the country, has made it known as the "muddy"
Missouri; and, also, that while the disappearance, -by ieason
6f this process, of a mass of bank may be sudden and obvious,
there is no transfer of such a solid body of earth to the opposite shore, or anything like an instantaneous and visible creation of a bank on that shore. The accretioi, whatever may
be the fact in respect to the diminution, is always gradual and
by the imperceptible deposit of floating particles of earth.
There is, except in such cases of avulsfoih as may be noticed
hereafter, in all matter of increase of bank, always a mere gradual and imperceptible process. There is no heaping up at an instant, and while the eye rests upon the stream, of acres or rods
on the forming side of the river. No engineering skill is sufficient to say where the earth in the bank washed away and
disintegrating into the river finds its rest and abiding place.
The falling bank has passed into the floating mass of earth
and water, and the particles of earth may rest one or fiftymiles below, and upon either shore. There is, no matter how
rapid the process of subtraction or addition, no detachment of
earth from the one side and deposit of the same upon the
other. The only thing which -distinguishes this river from
ofher streams, in the matter.of accretion, is in the rapidity of
the change caused by the velocity of the current; and this in
itself, in the very nature of things, works no change in the
principle underlying the rule-of law in respect thereto.
Our conclusions-are that, notivithstanding the rapidity of
VOL. OCL-

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the changes in the course of the channel, and the washing
from the one side and on to the other, the law of accretion
controls on the Mfissouri River, as elsewhere; and that not
only in respect to the rights of individual land owners, but'
also in respect to the boundary lines between States. The
boundary, therefore, between Iowa and Nebraska is a'varying
line, so far as affected by these changes of diminution and
accretion in the mere washing of the waters of the stream.
It appears, however, from the testimony, that in 1877 the
river above Omaha, which had pursued a course in the nature
of an ox-bow, suddenly cut through the neck of the bow and
*made for itself a new channel. This does not come within
the law of accretion, but of that of avulsion. By this selection of a new channel the boundary was not changed, and it
remained as it was prior to the avulsion, the centre line of the
old channel; and that, unless the waters of the river returned
to their former bed, became a fixed and unvarying boundary,
no matter what might be the 6hanges of che river in its new
channel.
We think we have by these observations indicated as clearly
as is _possible the boundary between the two States, and
upon these _principles the parties may agree to a designation of such boundary,and such designationwillpass into
a lnal, decree. If no agreement is possible, then the court
will appoint a commission to survey and report in accdgrdance with the views herein eqpressed.
The costs of this suit will be divided between the two States,
because the matter involved is one of those governmental
questions in which each party has a real and vital, and
yet not a litigious, interest.

