OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

decision does not'apply to those cases of ejectment where
more than one trial is directly allowed by, statute.
Our conclusion is, that
[ e plaintifs,in error were entitled to a new trial, upo%
their qpplication in the Circdt Court and payment of
costs, without showing other cause than that a judgment

was entered against them within the year. This conclusion will be certified to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
upon which that court will proceed to rendr the pioper
judgment in the case pending before it; and it is so ordered.

In re RAPIER, Petitioner.
In re DUPRE, Petitioner.
In re DUPRE, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
Woa. 7,8,9, Original. Arkued November 16,17,1891. -Decided

February 1,1892.

Section 3894 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the act of September
19,.1890, 26 Stat. 465, c. 908, which provides that "no letter, postal card
or circular concerning any lottery . . . and no list of the drawings at any
lottery . . . and no lottery ticket or part thereof .,. . shall be carried
in the mail, or delivered at or through any post-office, or branch thereof,
or by any letter-carrier"; and that no newspaper "containing any advertisement of any lottery" ".shall be carried-in the mail, or delivered by
any postmaster or letter-carrier"; and that "any person who shall
knowingly depositor causeto be deposited . . . anything to be conveyed
or delivered by mail in violation of this section . . . shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction shall be punished by a fine
of not more than. five hundred dollars or by imprisonment for not more
than one year," is a constitutional exercise of the power conferred upon
Congress by Art. I, sec. 8 of the Constitution, to establish post-offices
and post-roads, and does not abridge "the freedom of speech or of the
press," within the meaning of Amendment I to the Constitution.
-ExparteJackson, 96 U. S.727, affirmed to the points;
(1) That the power vested in Congress to establish post-offices and
post-roads embraces the regulation of the entire postal system of
the country, and that under it Congress may desiguate what may
be carried in the mail and what excluded;

IN RE RAPIER.
Statement of the Case.
That in excluding various articles from the mails the object of
Congress is, not to interfere with the freedom of tie press, orwith any other rights of the people, but to refuse the facilities
for the distribution of matter deemed injurious by Congress to
the public morals;
(3) That the transportation in any other way of matter excluded from
the mails is not forbidden.

(2)

THESE were three applications to this court for leave to file

petitions for writs of habeas corpus. Leave was granted,
March 9, 1891, and the petitions were made returnable on the
third Monday of the next April. They were duly returned,
and were on the 27th of April assigned for argument at the
present term. The prayer in each case was for a discharge
from arrest for an alleged violation of the provisions of section
S894 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the act of September'19, 1890, 26 Stat. 465, c. 908, generally known as the
anti-lottery act, which is printed in the margin.1
IChap. 908. An act to amend certain sections of the Revised Statutes
relating to lotteries, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of ltepresentatires of the Uited States
of Anjitica in Congress asseinbled, That section thirty-eight hundred and
ninety-four of the Revised Statutes be, and the same is hereby, amended to
read as follows:
" SEC. 3894. No letter, postal-card or circular concerning any lottery,
so-called gift-concert, or other similar enterprise offering prizes dependent
upon lot or chance, or concerning schemes devised for the purpose of obtaining money or property under false pretences, and no list of the drawings at any lottery or similar scheme, and no lottery ticket or part thereof,
vnd no check, draft, bill, money, postal-note or money order for the purchase of any ticket, tickets or part thereof, or of any 0hare or any chance
in ary such lottery or gift enterprise, shall be carried in the mail or delivered at or through any post office or branch thereof, or by Any letter-carrier;
iior shall any newspaper, circular, pamphlet or publication of any kind
containing any advertisement of any lottery or gift enterprise of any kind
offering prizes dependent upon lot or chance, or containing any list of prizes
awarded at the drawings of any such lottery or gift enterprise, whether said
list is of any part or of all of the drawing, be carried in the mail or delivered by any postmaster or letter-carrier. Any.person who shall knowingly
deposit or eause to be deposited, or who shall knowingly- send or canse to
be sent. anything to be conveyed or delivered by mail in violation of !his
section, or who shall knowingly cause to be delivered by mail anything
herein forbidden to be carried by mail, shall be deemed guilty of, a mis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Rapier was arrested under an information in the District
Court for the Southern District of Alabama.
Dupr6 was arrested under two indictments in the Circuit
Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The charge against Rapier, and against Dupr6 in one indictment, was the mailing of a newspaper containing an advertisement of .the Louisiana Lottery; and in the other indictment
against Dupr6 was for the mailing of a letter concerning it.
As a cause for the issue of the writ Rapier said, in his application: "Your petitioner avers that he is now in the custody
of said marshal under or by color of the authority of the
United States and in- violation of the Constitution of the
United States. Your petitioner is advised that the pretended
statute under which he is being prosecuted and held is in violation of the Constitution of the United States, and that the said
District Court is without jurisdiction in the premises."
Dupr6 in No. 8 averred that he was "deprived of his liberty
-under and by color of the authority of the United States and
of said court and in violation of the Constitution of the United
States and of his rights as a citizen thereof, because he says
that he is advised and therefore avers that the statute of the
United States under which he is held and being prosecuted
upon said indictment is unconstitutional, null and void, and
particularly obnoxious to and in violation of the first amendment to said Constitution, which forbids Congress passing any
law abridging the freedom of the press, and that therefore said
Circuit Court is and was without jurisdiction in the- premises,
and he, is-deprived of his liberty without -uthority of law."
His petition in No. 9 contained substantiallythe same averment.
demeanor, and on conviction shall be punished by a fine for not more than
flVe hundred dollars, or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by
both such fine and imprisonment for each offence. Any person violating any
of the provisions of this section may be proceeded against by information
or indictment and tried and punished, either in the district at which the
unlawful publication was mailed, or to which it is carried by mail for delivery according to the direction thereon, or.at which it is caused to be delivered by mail to the person to whom it is addressed."

INT RE RAPIER.
Mr. Carter's argument for Petitioner.

.M.

fannis Taylor for Rapier.

.Mr.James C. Carter and -tfr. T7omas Semmes for Dupr6.
Mr.Attorney General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General

?iaury for the United States.
These cases were argued by the above named counsel, an
extension of time being allowed by the court. In view of the
impossibility of reporting all seriatim, the arguments for the
petitioners are represented below by a synopsis of .JAr.Carter's
brief, and those for the government by an abstract of
:r.*
Maury's argument.
.Mr.
James C. Carterfor Dupr6, petitioner.
I. The power of Congress is limited in two ways. First,it
can exercise no power which has not been conferred upon it
by the Constitution. Second, it cannot exercise the powers
which have been thus bestowed in ways, or for purposes,
which the Constitution forbids.
Our first proposition is that the statute in question is
invalid, as being an attempt to exercise powers not conferred
upon Congress.
1. It is not denied that Congress, in the exercise of the
power conferred upon it by the Constitution "to establish
post-offices and'post-roads," is clothed with the full incidental
power of regulating such offices and roads; -in other words,
of regulating the mail service. Nor is it denied that this
incidental power of regulation embraces the power, of so
limiting.the carriage of matter by mail as to render that service practicable; and consequently embraces a power of excluding matter from the mails for'that purpose and to that extent.
What we do assert is that any incidental powers which Congress may thus exercise Jnust be such only as¢ in the language
of the Constitution, "are necessary and proper" for carrying
into execution a general power expressly conferred; and that
whether any such incidental power is "necessary and-prioper ,"
VoI

CX=f--8

OCTOBER TERAM, 1891.
Mr. Carter's argument for Petitioner.

must be, as this court has always regarded it, a judicial question.

.eCulloch v. faryland, 12 Wheat. 316, 420.

The first form which the judicial inquiry assumes is, whether
the means employed by Congress in executing its admitted
powers are appropriate, and apparently conducive to the legitimate end. If they are so, it matters not whether or not they
are the best and most effective means. Congress may fail in
the effort to select these. But they must be means; in other
words, they must have some relation to the end- some tendency
to accomplish it. Applying this test the statute in question is
plainly inv.lid. This seems scarcely to admit of debate.
The legitimate end is to furnish mail facilities to the people
of the United States; and this means to all the people of the
United States. But the statute in question makes the moral
character of the matter the sole ground of exclusion. The
fact that the mail service has been maintained for a century
without such exclusioh is -sufficient to show that it is not
conducive to the mere end of esfablishing a mail service.
We are not, at This moment, objecting that the statute is
invalid because aimed to accomplish an object beyond the
power-of Congress, or because forbidlen by some express prohibition of the Constitution. Our argument now is that being
an attempted exercise of incidental powers it is condemned by
an implied prohibition of the Constitution, because the means
employed by it plainly appear to be in no manner conducive
to the only legitimate end for which we now assume they
could be employed, namely, the maintenance of the imail service. United States v. Fox, 95 U. S. 670; United States v.
Reese, 92 U. S. 214; Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114;
Cum'nings v. Mlissouri, 4 Wall. 277; Ev parte Garland, 4
Wall.
333.
Courts
of justice always avoid, so -far as possible,
any
inquiry into the motives of legi~lators. They never indulge
in it so far as to seek, through the instrumentality of evidence,
what suchi motives are, with the view of invalidating the
exercise of admitted powers. A grant which a legislature has
authority to make cannot be avoided by proof -of.fraud in the
individual legislators. Fetcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch. 87. But

IN RE RAPIER.
Mr. Carter's argument for Petitioner.

it is often the case that an act of a legislative body may be
conducive to either of two objects, one of which may be within
the scope of the legislative power, and the other beyond it.
In such cases if the manifest purpose, or the necessary effect,
of any legislation be to reach an end beyond the legislative
power, it is condemned as unconstitutional. The illustrations
of this rule of action are multitudinous. City of 'ew Yo'k
v. MAila, 11 Pet. 102; T/e Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283;
Baruer v. Codinolly, 113 U. S. 27; Soon Rling v. Crowley,
113 U. S. 703; YTick To v. opkins,*118 U. S. 356; -Morgan's
Steamship Co. v. Louisijana, 118 U. S. 455; Ouachita Co. v.
Aiken,, 121 U. S. 444; .Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313.
In the latter case it is held that, in applying this doctrine,
while we are not permitted to inquire by means of facts given
in evidence, into the motives of individual legislators, we are
permitted and enjoined to ascertain the purpose, so far as it is
manifest upon the face of the legislation, or inferable from its
necessary effects.
It would, of course, be efitirely repugnant to the spirit of
the Constitution, and to the equality of the States and the
general government in their respective spheres of sovereign
action, if the same rule were not applied in determining the
validity of a congressional enactment. Applying this doctrine
to the statute before the court, and inquiring what its natural
and necessary effect and its manifest purpose are, no one will
pretend that there is room for doubt. It was passed simply
and solely for the purpose of disfavoring, and, if possible, of
suppressing lotteries. It is not necessary to resort to the
report of the committees introducing the original bill, and
which openly avows this as the sole purpose, for it is obvious
and undisputable on the face of the act itself. And so it has
been declared by this court. Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727.
Here the argument upon this branch of the case properly
closes; for no one will assert that Congress has power to
suppress lotteries any more than it has to suppress any other
employment or pursuit.
2. But it would be an oversight to omit to notice a different view upon which an attempt may be made to defend the

OCTOBER TERX, 1891.
Mr. Carter's argument for Petitioner.

validitf of this legislation, a view indeed upon which the bill
already referred to forbidding the delivery of alleged incendiary abolition documents was defended by Senator Buchanan
in 1836, in the Senate of the United States. That distinguished statesman insisted that the proposed measure should
not be viewed as an affirmative exclusion of such documents
from the mails, but as a refusal by the government to become
an agency to furnish means and facilities for the oirculation
of such publications. And 'it may be asked here, as he asked
in respect to abolition publications, "must the United States
make itself the agent of dealers in lotteries and facilitate that
business I" It must be that there is some plausibility in this
argument, since it has commanded the assent of such able
minds; but it has nothing more than plausibility.
Inasmuch as a denial of mail facilities to persons wishing
to carry on any particular pursuit must, of necessity, so far
impede it as to greatly abridge the exten,. to *which it may be
carried on, and in many instances render it impossible; and
as the argument under notice asserts the absolute right of
Congress, in its uncontrollable discretion, to refuse the facilities in any case, (and such was Mr. Buchanan's view,) it involve'the assertion' that Congress has the right, by such
action, to break up, or impede, any business or employment.
It also involves the assertion, generally, that Congress, in making provision for the actual and beneficial enjoyment by the
people of the powers, privileges and franchiises bestowed by
the-Constitution, is clothed with a discretion, wholly arbitrary,
to give them here, and withhold them there, as it anay please.
But the doctrine of this court is that the fundamental rights
of citizens -and
these, certainly, must include all the rights
ad privileges which are bestowed by the Constitution -can
be taken away only bydie-process of law; and this does not
include the arbitrary mandate of the legislature. Dent v.
Vest .Tginian, 129 U. S. 1:14, 123; Yick, Ifo v. Rokins,
118 U. S. 356, 369; Loan. Assoeiation v. Topeka, 20 Wall.
655, 662, f63; Ex _part- Curtis, 106 U. S. 371, 376, dissenting,opinion of Mr. Justice Bradley.
3. But we insist that Congress has no power to exclude

IN RE RAPIER.
Mr. Carter's argument for Petitioner,

matter concerning lotteries fr9m the mails on the ground that
the circulation of such matter would have an immoral or
injurious tendency. That this was its real purpose has already
been shown. In enacting that statute it was not exercising.
the power of regulating the mail service, for there was no
relation between the means employed and that end. The real
power which it attempted to exercise was to hamper and
impede, and, if possible, to destroy, the lottery business, in
order to protect the people of the United States from the
assumed demoralizing and dangerous tendency of lotteries.
Inasmuch as no one pretends that Congress may pass a law
directly suppressing lotteries on the ground that they have an
immoral tendency, or, indeed, on any ground whatever, the
question is whether it can pass a law, not directly suppressing
them by declaring them to be crimes, but harassing and
obstructing them by withdrawing from them facilities which
are under its control for no other reason than that it, deems
them crimes which it would suppress if it had the power? This
question must be promptly answered in the negative, for the
power thus attempted to be exercised is a power to suppress
lotteries and that alone: No such power can be derived from
any express language in the Constitution, nor by any just implication from any language in it. More than this, the possession of any such power by Congress is utterly inconsistent with
the whole theory of the constitutional relations between the
general government and the States. Against all such views we
respectfully insist that where Congress cannot by direct legis.
lation pronounce a business to be a crime and punish it as such,
but that, power has been reserved to the States, it is not competent to Congress to determine it to be a crime, and to
deprive it of the benefit of the mails for the sole purpose of
endeavoring to suppress .it. What cannot be done directly cannot be done indirectly. Cooley's Constitutional Limitations,
208; Taylor v. Commissioners of .Ros County, 23 Ohio St.
22.
A plausible attempt may be made to retort upon us the
argument drawn from possible consequences.

"Is it true,

then," it may be asked, "that the government of the United

OCTOBER TEIi f, 1891.
Mr. Carter's argument for Petitioner.

States is placed in the singular attitude that it cannot discharge its duty of maintaining- a mail service without extending the facilities which that service affords to criminals of
every description to aid them in the commission of crime?
Cannot that government decline to become the principal instrumentality in the circulation, for instance, of obscene books
and pictures, without an entire abrogation of its postal service? Are the statutes passed for that purpose also invalid?"
Whatever force the argument thus suggested may seem to
have is more apparent than real. It is founded upon a failure
to notice fundamental distinctions in the nature of criminal
offences.
The grand and principal distinctions between right and
wrong, between what is criminal and what is innocent, (and
we mean the practical and existing distinctions, and not absolute or theoretical ones,) are not created by laws. They exist
in the minds of men antecedently to formal government, and
are indeed a preliminary condition to the organizatibn of any
political society. It is'not possible that such a society should
subsist, except where one part is under subjugation to the
other, unless there is a general concurrence among its members
in relation to these distinctions. Propinquity, common origih
and mutual intercourse produce this concurrence, and at the
same time generally determine the territorial limits of the
political organization. The laws are, for the most part merely
a recognition of the moral opinions of the members of the Sttte,
and are designed to enforce conformity in conduct.
When the government of the United States was formed,
with legislative and judicial powers, it must have been assumed
.that those powers would be exercised in accordance with the
rules of morality- those distinctions between right and wrong
- which obtained universally in the societies over which it was
to extend. But, on the other hand, political societies have the
power to create new distinctions between right and wrong,
and thus to declare practices before regarded as innocent, or
indifferent, to be criminal offences and to punish them as "such.
Every completely sovereign power is clothed with this function; but a government not completely sovereign may or may

IN RE RAPIER.
Mr. Carter's argument for Petitioner.

not have it. The charter of its powers must be scrutinized in
order to ascertain how far its authority in this direction extends.
Turning to the division of powers made by our Constitution
between the States and the general government, we find, as
its most distinctive feature, that certain enumerated powers
were awarded to the latter, and all others reserved to the former.
And among the powers so reserved most certainly that of determining what new things should be declared and treated as
criminal offences against the good order of society was embraced,
except so far as distinct powers of legislation upon particular
subjects were conferred upon the general government.
There is, therefore, a well defined line which limits the extent
to which the general government can act as a moral person,
and regulate its powers so as to favor or disfavor particular
acts of individuals in the States. That line is, in general, coincident with the boundary everywhera recognized as separating iadcapiohibita,from iiala in se. A malurm in se is a thing
absolutely evil in itself; not indeed absolutely in a philosophical sense, but absolutely according to the universal conviction
in the political society which so views it; and mal proltibita
are those things, otherwise indifferent or innocent, which the
legislative power having control over the subject may declare
'to be offences. This distinction enables the government to
exclude from the mails all matter promoting such acts as it has
the authority to declare to be criminal offences and to punish
as such; and also all matter promoting-what were, at the time
of the adoption of the Constitution (and possibly what in the
progress and development of our society may come to be) universally regarded as mala in se, including all such crimes as
murder, arson, burglary, larceny, etc. And in this latter class
the offence of circulating obscene books and pictures- uhdoubtedly falls. This was a well known offence at common law.
Lord Campbell in Dugcale's Case, 1 Dearsly Crown Cas. 64,
75; Holt's Laws of Libel, 73.
The question then, is, "are lotteries and dealing with lotteries mala in see?" Upon this no argument need be employed.
The common conviction of men has never so regarded them.

OCTOBER TRM, 1891.
Mr. Carter's argument for Petitioner.

Universally allowed at the time of the adoption of the Constitution, and still -allowed in some of the States, they can only
be regarded as among that class of things which may be made
mala prohibit. And so it has been declared in an authoritative decision of this court. Stone v. -. fisissi2VPi, 101 U. S.

814, 821.
IL But the statutd in question is invalid, not only for the
reason that none of the powers conferred upon Congress were
sufficient to authorize it, but also because Congress was by an
express restriction upon the exercise of those powers, prohibited
from making such a law. It is a law "abridging the freedom
of the press" within the meaning of the First Amendment.
- 1. It is important to keep in mind throughout this discussion,
that the constitutional safeguard thug invoked is not so much
a limitation upon the express powers enumerated and granted
to Congress, as it is a restriction upon the legislative means to
be employed in the exercise of those powers. Speaking with
precision, it is a restriction upon the incidental powers which
Congress may exercise in carrying out its express powers.
2. Any discussion of the question, whether an enactment
of Congress abridges the "Liberty of the Press," should properly start with a clear statement of what that phrase imports,
or rather what it imported at the time of the adoption of the
Federal Constitution, for it was the particular Liberty of the
Press which then existed, which was, and is, protected by
the constitutional safeguard.
3. Our proposition is, that this Liberty of the Press imported
the liberty of free discussion in print, without any restraint, save
that which was imposed by the law of libel as it then existed
in the jurisprudence of England and her American Colonies.
After reviewing at length the struggle for freedom of the
press, and for trial by jury in prosecutions for libel in England,
for a century and a half, Xr. Carter continued:
The question is, in what sense the term "Liberty of the
Press" was employed in the First Amendment. How can we
doubt that the framers of the Constitution, themselves devoted

m'IIf

RE MAXIEM.

Mr. Carter's argument for Petiti6ner.'

to free principles of government, detesting the doctrines of
arbitrary power, with the spectacle then actually before their
eyes of the conflict going on in England between rival views
- a struggle in which all who had been their friends were
upon the popular side - a struggle substantially finished by
the triumph of that side - intended by the phrase "Liberty
of the Press" precisely that liberty which was not only
guarded by exemption from previous restraint, but defended
by the safeguard of a jury trial?
The contemporaneous exposition by those principally instrumental in the framing of the Constitutiofi is in entire accordance with the foregoing views. It 'is nowhere better expressed
than in Hamilton's masterly brief in the celebrated case of
The People v. Cr'oswell, an indictment for a libel upon Thomas
Jefferson, President of the United States.
"I. The liberty of the press consists in the right to publish
with impunity truth, with good motives, for justifiable ends,
though reflecting on government, magistracy or individuals.
"II. That the aflowance of this right is essential to the
preservation of free government - the disallo~vance of it
fatal.
"Il. That its abuse is to be guarded against by subjecting
the exercise of it to the animadversion and control of the tribunals of justice; but 'that this control cannot safely be entrusted to a permanent body of magistracy, and requires the
effectual cot[ieration of court and jury.
"IV. That to confine the jury to the mere question of
publication and the application of terms, Without the right of
inquiry into the intent or tendency, referring to the court the
exclusive right of pronouncing upon th6,constructiou, tendency
and intent of the alleged libel, is calculated to render nugatory
the function of the jury, enabling the cQurt to make a libel of
any writing whatsoever, the most innocent or commendable.
"V. That it is the general rule of criminal law, that the
intent constitutes the crime, and that it is equally a general
rule that the intent, mind or quo animo, is an inference of 'fact
to be drawn by the jury.
"VI. That if there are exceptions to this rule they are con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Mr. Carter's argument for Petitioner.

fined to cases in which not only the principal fact, but its circumstances, can be and are defined by statute, or judicial
precedent.
"VII. That in respect to libel there is no such specific and
precise definition of facts and circumstances to be found; that
consequently it is difficult, if not impossible, to pronounce that
any libel is,per se and exclusive of all circumstances, libellous;
that its libellous character must depend upon intent and tendency, the one and the other being matters of fact."
This precise and elegant statement of the law was supported
by a luminous argument reviewing the whole law of libel and
its history, showing that it was the ancient law, and that Mr.
Fox's act was declaratory merely, It received the full assent
of Kent, afterwards Chancellor, whose opinion contains a most
elaborate scrutiny of the doctrine of Lord Mansfield in K-ing
v. T'oocdall, 20 State Trials, 895, and declares that he and the
judges who followed him had "involved themselves in inconsistency and paradox; and I am induced to believe that it is a
departure from the ancient, simple and true history of the
trial by jury in criminal cases." Hamilton's Works, ed. 1886,
vol. 7, p. 333 ; ed. 1851, vol. 7, p. 849; Peopke v. Croswell, 3
Johns. Oas. 336, 365.
4. It may be assumed, therefore, that-the phrase "freedom
of the press," as employed in the First Amendment, imported
that measure of liberty which permits, without previous restraint, the publication of any writing whatever, and without
the restraint of any subsequent penalty, unless it should be
found by a jury on a regular trial to be such a publication as
the law then condemned as libellous. The immediate purpose
and effect of the amendment was to place this great safeguard
of liberty beyond the peril of the exercise even of the legislative power.
5. Having determined the import of the term "freedom of
the press," as employed in the First Amendment, we are now
prepared for the main inquiry whether the statute in question
is a law abridging that freedom. That such is its character is
very clear. That freedom includes not only the liberty of printing, but the liberty of publishing. The former would be empty

IN RE RAPIER.
Mr. Carter's argument for Petitioner.

indeed without the latter. And the liberty of publishing must
be coextensive with the liberty of printing. Publishing and
circulating are admitted to be synonympus. ExoparteJack-son,
.s1ipw.
And what was the liberty of publishing, which existed
at the time of the adoption of the Constitution? It was the
liberty of circulating printed matter in all practicable and
permissible forms, of which that by mail was by far the
principal mode. It included letters, newspapers and packets.
Does the statute in question abridge the freedom of circulation? We make no effort to conceal the embarrassment which
attends any discussion of this question since the, decision of
this court in ErjaeteJackson, 96 U. S. 727. That the statute
was within the powers of Congress, aside from any express
restriction, it would seem, was silently assumed, rather than
considered and determined by that decision; but the point
that it was invalidated by the restriction seems to have been
made and passed upon. We cannot, however, but think that
it was inadequately presented, and this court has not been in
the habit of placing a vital question of constitutional law
beyond the reach of agitation until its merits have been
thoroughly discussed. The attention of the court is, most
respectfully, but earnestly, solicited to the following considerations which seem to demonstrate that the statute does
abridge the freedom of circulation, and, by consequence, the
freedom of the press.
The meaning of the term "abridge "1 will surely not be disputed. It is not synonymous with destroy, deprive or take
wholly away. It means to shorten, to curtail, to contract, to
diminish. The principal, if not the only mode of circulating,
at the time of the adoption of the Constitution, such printed
matter as newspapers, pamphlets and circulars, was by mail.
It has always been so, and must become more and-more so
as society advances. We submit it to candid minds to say
whether the freedom of circulating printed matter, which is
admitted to be synonymous with the freedom of the press, is
shortened, curtailed, contracted, diminished or, in other words,
abridged, when the natural, appropriate and principal means by
which such matter may be circulated is absolutely taken away.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Mr. Carker's argument for Petitioner.

Under this statute no man can circulate a newspaper in any
State except upon condition that he cpnsents to forego the
benefit to be derived from any such advertisement, although
it may be entirely legal in such State. Of course the conditions may, if this be allowed, be extended to any other advertisement relating to any business or subject; and thus the power
is directly asserted by this legislation of Congress to control the
character of the whole newspaper press; for no -one will pretend that the publication of newspapers is possible, on any
large scale, if the benefit of the mail service is denied to them.
And still further: The statute creates a censorship. Had
it forbidden only the depositing in the mail of the matter
described, it might be urged that every one was at liberty to
make such deposit, subject to the hazard of being indicted
and 'punished, and, therefore, that there was no previous
restraint. But the prohibition forbids the postmaster from
delivering any such fiewspaper, circular, pamphlet or publication. It arrests publication, for it arrests the communication
of the matter to the public, or to those for whom it is intended.
And whether publication should be thus arrested is submitted
to the judgment of a postmaster. This is a perfect restoration of the censorship.
It may possibly be suggested that the purpose of the act, in
question is not in aily manner to impair or abridge free discussion of any question, but to break up a certain business or
certain practices: If such suggestion is designed to show that
the statute is limited, or should be construed to be limited, to
such acts as are parts of some business transaction in relation
to a lottery, it must be rejected. Whatever is fairly embraced'
within the language of the act must be deemed to have bet
intended by it. Courts cannot cut down the scope of an
enactment as marked out by its language on the basis of a
supposal that Congress must be deemed to have intended only
what was constitutional and reasonable. This may be done
when the language employed suggests a doubt, but'is quite
inadmissible where the doubt is whether-the Iegislature has.
power to do what it has plainly attempted. Courts cannot
legislate.- ,

IN RE RAPIER.
Mr. Carter's argument for Petitioner.

Our argument in no manner involves the consequence that
the existing legislation of Congress, excluding obscene books
and pictures from the mails, is invalid, as abridging the freedom
of speech. It will be perceived upon referring to the observations concerning this legislation hereinbefore made, that the
power and the duty of Congress to refrain from so exercising its
express powers as to facilitate the commission of crime was distinctly admitted. What was denied was that Congress had the
power to exclude matter as being criminal which was not criminal per -e, which was not regarded as criminal at the time of the
adoption of the Constitution, which was then permitted, if not
encouraged, in most, if not all the colonies, was still permitted and protected in son of the States, and over which, as
being criminal or innocent, Congress had no direct power
whatever.
Our statute making the circulation by mail of such matter a
penal offence, follows rigidly theprinciple which governs such
indictments. There must be a jury trial, and the question
whether the books or pictures are obscene -in other words,
whether they ar libellous - is always an issue of fact determinable by the jury alone. But if Congress had undertaken
to describe and condemn particular books or publications as
promotive of murder, arson or an other crime, or as being obscene, and make the circulation of those a penal offence, thus
taking away from the jury the determination of the question
of their guilty tendency, the prohibition contained in the First
Amendment would have been distinctly violated. It is precisely here that the legislation under notice exhibits its vice.
It leaves to no jury the power to determine whether any publication relating to a' lottery - a remoinstrance against them,
'an argument for them, an advertisement of. them, any expression of views concerning them - is of evil design and tendency.
If the matter relates to lotteries, proof of mailing is enough.
All else is a question of law and the jury must convict.
III. It is very respectfully submitted that the consideration
and decision of the questi6ns herein 'discussed should not be
embarrassed by the judgment in Exe aprte Jackson, 96 U. S.
727. The question whether Congress could exercise a power

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Mr. Maury's argument against the applications.

of excluding matter from the mails solely because of the subject to which it related, and not with any view of making the
service more practicable, convenient and useful seems not to
have been debated. Nor does the question seem to have been
debated whether Congress could employ an incidental power
in order to repress a business or practice within a State over
which it had under the Constitution no control. It seems to
have been hastily assumed that, inasmuch as the regulation of
the whole postal system was lodged with Congress, any laws
passed by Congress in relation to that system must be deemed
to be regulation; and that "the right to designate what should
be carried, necessarily involves the right to determine what
should be excluded."
Upon the question whether the law
abridged the freedom of the press the doctrine declared seems
open to much question, and induces the belief that it could not
have been adequately presented in argument.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Maury opposing.
Unless the case of Exparte JTacekson, 96 U. S. 727, is to be
reversed, it is conceded that the writs prayed for in these petitions must be denied. I shall aim to show that that decision
rests on sound principles of constitutional law.
The whole system of the transportation of the mails is built
upon the power to establish post-offices and post-roads. Legal
Tender Cases, 4 Wall. 457, 537. In the somewhat inadequate
language of the power, and in the studied reticence of the
Constitution in regard to it, we find an invitation to Congresg
to use a wide discretion as to ways and ipeans. Under this
power Congress has established a comprehensive postal service,
and enacted laws regulating it, one of which'is section 3894 of
the Revised Statutes, as amended by the act of September 19,
1890, 26 Stat. 465, c. 908, which provides that no newspaper,
circular, pamphlet, etc., containing any advertisement of any
lottery shall be carried in the mail, or delivered by any postwaster or letter-carrier, and makes it a penal offence to deposit
such newspaper or publication in the mails for the purpose of
such transportation. Has Congress the power to make this
an offence?

IN RE RAPIER.
Mr. Maury's argument against the applications.

To determine this question we must look at the nature of
the power. The test is laid down by Chief Justice X,arshall:
"Whenever the terms in which a power is granted to Con-,
gress, or the naturae of thepower, require that it should be exer-,
cised exclusively by Congress, the subject is as completely
taken from the state legislatures, as if they had been expressly
forbidden to act upon it." Sturges v. Crowninshield,4 Wheat.

122, 193.
From the nature of this power, it is vested exclusively in
Congress; for it belongs to a class, which, like the power to
regulate conmerce, to declare war, to establish a uniform rule
of naturalization, and to establish uniform laws on the subject
of bankruptcies, is as exclusively vested in the United States
as if their exercise by the States had been forbidden. It follows, as a sequence of immense significance, that the States
have denuded themselves of the power to prevent the introduction, by the mails, of things that endanger the morals or
the health of their people.
Here, then, is an undoubted surrender by the States of a
fragment of their police power; just as in .MeCulloch v. .3faryland, 4 Wheat. 316, and Brown v. .Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419,
the States were held to have surrendered a fragment of the
taxing power; and in Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, they
were held to have lost a fragment of their police power.
It is equally clear that the police power which the States
have thus surrendered has, by the Constitution, been devolved
upon Congress. If it has not, then the Constitution has
resulted in a failure of government in a vital particular, (and
what graver necessity is there for the existence of a power,
than the prevention of the failure of government ?)or on the
other hand, each State possesses a power within itself, which,
by its very nature, should be uniform throughout all the States.
The assetion that power resides nowhere to prevent the
transportation of such matter in the mails is somewhat appalling. The treaty making power has been assumed to be broad
enough to exclude such matter from foreign mails: certainly
the power to establish post-offices and post-roads" should be
equally broad as to.the interstate mails.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Mr. Maury's argument against the applications.

There is a broad ground on which we may rest the implication that the Federal government has a police power over such
subjects. No power in the Constitution can ,be exercised in
such a way as to defeat any one or more of the five great purposes for which the Constitution was ordained, namely: (1) to
'form a more perfect union: (2) to establish justice: (3) to
insure domestic tranquillity: (4) to provide for the common
defence: (5) to promote the general welfare.
It is not contended that from each of these a substantive
power can be evolved; but the whole instrument is subordinate
to these leading objects. To establish a postal system without
forbidding, under proper sanctions, its use for purposes hurtful to the morals of the people of the several States, would
have been to endanger, instead of to promote, the general
welfare. Not only so, it would have been to weaken the
bonds of the Union, instead of making them more perfect,
if Congress had not legislated in the way complained of.
From this partial surrender of state police power, and the
duty of Congress to promote the general welfare, it follows,
by necessary implication, that Congress is clothed with all the
police power over the mails that the several States would have
had if the surrender had not been made.
This places Congress under an imperative duty to keep out
of the mails everything that the representatives of the people
in the several States, and of the States themselves, in Congress
assembled, may properly exclude by a lawful use of police
power. In -Mfc Culloch's Case the power implied to establish a
bank was on the ground of convenience. Here, however, the
power.is absolutely necessary, to prevent a failure of government, the.endangering of the general welfare and the weakening cV the bonds of the Union itself. It is no exaggeration to
say that such grave consequences would flow from permitting
the lottery people of Louisiana to traffic in lottery tickets
through public mails entering States where that traffic is prohibited as criminal.
We all know the disintegrating effect on the Union-of the irritations growing out of slavery. Similar disintegrating forces
would be the result of allowing the prostitution of the mails

IN IRE RAPIER.
Mr. Maury's argument against the applications.

to the Louisiana lottery. The people of the several States
would be driven to exasperation by the impunity thus given
to the lottery in defiance of their laws. With the mail at its
service, the lottery could defy the police power of the States.
Is there not, then, a direct connection between the law in question and the power - to establish post-offices and post-roads ?"
it being well established that what is necessarily implied in the
Constitution is as much a part of it as what is expressed in it.
After what this court has said in _Phalen.v. Virginia, 8 How.
163, and in Stone v. Hi siw)ippi, 101 U. S. 814, there is no
room for'argument that if Congress has this police power over
the mails, the exclusion of lotteries from them is within it.
Louisiana has no more right to send the lottery infection in
her newspapers through the mails than she has to send the
yellow fever infection. The subject is a proper, one to call into
activity the police power of Congress.
The necessity for such a power has driven the other side to a
concession which is a virtual surrender of the argument: that
a lottery is not a malum in se, but that it is Tnalurn qia prohituin, and that the police power of Congress is restricted to
matters gnala in se.
This gives up the case - not only because it cannot rest on
such fanciful distinctions, but also because lotteries are clearly
mal in se. Phelan v. Yiirgini, ubi sumpra.
Such an argument is an anachronism, even in Louisiana, whose
legislature has from time to time denounced lotteries as crimes
to be severely punished, making it "the duty of the presiding
judge of every court of criminal jurisdiction in this State,
especially to charge every grand jury to inquire into all-violations bf the laws against lotteries, and against the unlawful
selling of tickets in lotteries." It is an anachronism, because
it regards lotteries from the standpoint from which they were
regarded when the Constitution was formed.
It is argued that nothing can be excluded from the mails by
Congress that was not criminal in se when the Constitution
was adopted. But this court trammels itself with no such
restriction in determining the bonaXfdes of an exercise of state
police power. If the question in Xf'ugler v. Kansd , 123 U. S.
VoL OXLM-9

-OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Mr. Maury's argument against the applications.

'623, had been raised at a much earlier day it might have been
decided differently. How short a time it is since the abolitionist and the prohibitionist were looked upon as crackbraiied
zealots. Times and the opinions of men have undergone a radical change. Slavery is abolished, and society is now wrestling
with the liquor traffic as one of the monster evils of the day.
Now a State may prohibit the manufacture of liquor, and destroy the property of the manufacturer, and this court holds
that, in such.a case, the manufacturer has received no injury;
that he cannot complain that his property has been taken
without due process of law; that his damage cannot be redressed; that it is damnnum absqee injurie.
When the good faith of an exercise of the police power is
assailed, this court does not go back to the formation of the
Constitution for its standpoint.
To classify slavery and illicit liquor traffic now as mere
malcajrohibita would be absurd, as absurd as to contend that
steamships cannot be used in the navy or that the mail must
be transported overland on horseback or in a stagecoach.
"There are few sources of crime," says this court in Crowley
v. Christiansen, 137 U. S.86, 91, "equal to the dram-shop,
where intoxicating liquors, in small quantities, to be drunk at
the time, are sold indiscriminately to all parties." No less
condemnatory is its language about the lottery. "Experience
has shown that the common forms of gambling are comparatively innocuous when placed in contrast with the widespread
pestilence of lotteries. The former are confined to a few
persons and places, but the latter infests the whole community;
it enters every dwelling; it reaches every class; it preys upon
the hard earnings of the poor and it plunders the ignorant
and simple." Phalen v. Virginia, 8 How. 163, 168.
It is'admitted that there may be an evolution in crime, and
that malur pro'hibitumr may become 'malun, ia? se. Polygamy
was a great advance from incest and indiscriminate commerce;
but polygamy is now a crime. So gladiatorial shows, murder
of the aged and helpless in nomadic tribes, political assassination) piracy, and other things which were once esteemed
virtues, have become, under changed conditions, vices of the

IN RE RAPIER.
Mr. Maury's argument against the applications.

darkest dye. As this court says in -Yormon Church v. United
SNMtte8, 136 U. S. 1, 49, " No doubt the Thugs of India imagined
that their belief in the right of assassination was a religious
belief; but their thinking so did not make it so. The practice
of suttee by the Hindu widows may have sprung from a supposed religious conviction. The offering of human sacrifices
by our own ancestors in Britain was no doubt sanctioned by
an equally conscientious impulse. But no one, on that account,
would hesitate to brand these practices, now, as crimes against
society, and obnoxious to condemnation and punishment by
the civil authority."
It is precisely because the conditions are changed that we
say the lottery is malum i se; and of these changed conditions this court, as we have already seen, takes notice.
But, it is said, if lotteries can be thus excluded from the
mails, Congress may exclude anything on the pretext that it is
hurtful, and in that way break down a legitimate business.
This is the old argument against a power, because it may be
abused. This court is a sufficient protection against an abuse
of state police power; and if Congress shall abuse its police
power over the mails, this court will, in like manner, correct
that abuse., It will neither suffer a State or Congress to
invade guaranteed rights under the guise of exercising a police
power. This court regards substance, not form.
But, it is said, the freedom of the press is assailed by this
legislation.
Does the constitutional guaranty of freedom of the press
override the duty of Congress to purge the mails? This guaranty, in common with all other provisions, is subordinate to
the great leading purposes for which, the Constitution was ordained : one of which is, the promotion of the general welfare,
and another, "to form a more perfect union."
Again, whether this guaranty is paramount or not, the
denial of the mails is no abridgment of the freedom of the
press. All other channels are left open; channels of coinmerce, railroads and newspaper trains. Freedom of the press,
like freedom of speech, and "the right to keep and bear arms,"
admits of and requires regulation, which is the law of liberty

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

that prevents these rights from running into license. Thus in
some places newspapers are not to be hawked about the streets;
in others they are not to be cried on Sunday. Nobody thinks
that the freedom of the press, guaranteed by the Constitution,
is interfered with by such regulations.
' But it is said there is censorship in the prohibition to the
postmaster to deliver. The prohibition only relates to newspapers containing lottery advertisements. It may be filled
with othe matter touching lotteries, and the prohibition will
not apply. And further, the postmaster is not the channel of
publication prescribed by law. He is responsible, under the
law, if he abuses his power. We are not to assume that an
officer, whose duty it is to withhold newspapers containing
lottery advertisements, is going to violate the law and convert
himself into a censor. No government would be practicable
on that theory.
Shall Louisiana dominate the Union with this lottery?
Power to prevent it must exist somewhere. It does exist in
the United States, the government of all, with powers delegated by all, and representing all. .toCullock v. .Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 405. "Power to determine such questions, so
as tobind all, must exist somewhere, else society will be at the
mercy of the few, who, regarding only their own appetites or
passions, may be willing to imperil the peace and security of
the miany, provided only they are permitted to do as they
please. Under our system that power is lodged with the legislative branch of the government. It belongs to that department to exert what are known as the police powers of the
State, and to determine, primarily, what measures are appro.priate or needful for the protection of the public morals,
the
public h ealth or the public safety." -Augler v. .Kansas, 123
U. S. 623, 660.
MR. CHIEF JusTic

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
We are constrained by the circumstances in which we find
ourselves placed by the illness and death of Mr. Justice Brad-

IN RE RAPIER.
Opinion of the Court.

ley, to whom the preparation of the opinion in these cases was
committed, to waive any elaboration of our views, and confine
ourselves to the expression of the general grounds on which
our decision proceeds.
These are applications for discharge by writ of habeas corpus
from arrest for alleged violations of an act of Congress, approved September 19, 1890, entitled "An act to amend certain
sections of the Revised Statutes relating to lotteries, and for
other purposes.'" 26 Stat. 465, c. 908.
The question for determination relates to the constitutionality of sectioii 3894,of the Revised Statutes as amended by that
act. In Ecyvarte ,ackson, 96 U. S. 727, it was held that the
power vested in Congress to establish post-offices and postroads embraced the~regulation of the entire postal system of
the country, and thdt under it Congress may designate what
may be carried in the mail and what excluded; that in excluding various articles from the mails the object of Congress is
not to interfere with the freedom of the press or with any
other rights of the people, but to refuse the facilities for the
distribution of matter deemed injurious by Congress to the
public morals; and that the transportation in any other way
of matters excluded from the mails would not be forbidden.
Unless we are prepared to overrule that decision, it is decisive
of the question before us.
It is argued that in Jackson's case it was not urged that
Congress had no power to exclude lottery matter from the
mails; but it is conceded that the point of want of power was
passed upon in the opinion. This was necessarily so, for the
real question was the existence of the power and not the defective exercise of it. 'And it is a mistake to suppose that te
conclusion there expressed was not arrived at:without delibefate consideration. It is insisted that the express powers oi
Congress are limited in their exercise to the objects for which
they were entrusted, and that in order to justify Congress in
exercising any incidental or implied powers to carry into effect its express authority, it must appear that there is some'
relation between the means employed and the legitimate end.
This is true, but while the legitimate end of the exercise of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

power in question is to furnish mail facilities for the people
of the United States, it is also true that mail facilities are
not required to be furnished for every purpose.
The States before the Union was formed could establish
post-offices and post-roads, and in doing so could bring into
play the police power in the protection of their citizens from
the use of the means so provided for purposes supposed to
exert a demoralizing influence upon the people. When the
power to establish post-offices and post-roads was surrendered
to the Congress it was as a complete power, and the grant
carried with it the right to exercise all the powers which made
that power effective. It is not necessary that Congress should
have the power to deal with crime or immorality within the
States in order to maintain that it possesses the power to forbid the use of the mails in aid of the perpetration of crime or
immorality.
The argument that there is a distinction between mala
,prohibitaand mnal 'in se, and that CongTess might forbid the

use of the mails in promotion of such acts as are universally
regarded as mala in se, including all such crimes as murder,
arson, burglary, etc., and the offence of circulating obscene
books and papers, but cannot do so in respect of other matters
which it might regard as criminal or immoral, but which it
has no power itself to prohibit, involves a concession which is
fatal to the contention of petitioners, since it would be for
Congress to determine what are within and what without the
rule; but we think there is no room for such a distinction
here, and that it must be left to Congress in the exercise of a
sound discretion to determine in what manner it will exercise
the power it undoubtedly possesses.
We cannot regard the right to operate a lottery as a fundamental right infringed by the legislation in question; nor are
we able to see that Congress can be held, in its enactment, to
have abridged the freedom of the press. The circulation of
newspapers is not prohibited, but the government declines
itself to become an agent in the circulation of printed matter
which it regards as injurious to the people. The freedom of
communication is not abridged within the intent and meaning

BOYD v. THAYER.
Syllabus.

of the constitutional provision unless Congress is absolutely
destitute of any discretion as to what shall or shall not be carried in the mails, and compelled arbitrarily to assist in the dissemination of matters condemned by its judgment, through the
governmental agencies which it controls. That power may be
abused furnishes no ground for a denial of its existence, if
government is to be maintained at all.
In short, we do not find sufficient grounds in the arguments
of counsel, able and exhaustive as they have been, to induce
us to change the views already expressed in the case to which
we have referred. We adhere to the conclusion therein announced.
The writs of habeas corpus prayed for will therefore be
denied, and the rules hereinbefore entered discharged.

BOYD v. NEBRASKA ex 'el. THAYER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 1208. Argued December 8, 1891. -Decided

February 1, 1892.

Boyd was born in Ireland in 1834, of Irish parents. His father emigrated
to the United States in 1844, with all his family, and settled in Ohio, in
which State he has since resided continuously. In 1849 the father duly
declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States, but there
is no record or other written evidence that he ever completed his naturalization by taking "outhis naturalization certificate after the expiration
of the five years. For many years after the expiration of that time, however, he exercised rights and claimed privileges in Ohio, which could only
be claimed and exercised by citizens of the United States and of the State.
The son, on attaining majority, voted in Ohio, under the belief that his
father had become a citizen. In 1856 he removed to Nebraska, in which
State he resided continuously until the commencement of this action. He
voted there at all elections, held various offices there which required him
to take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States, served
in the army during the war, was a member of a convention to frame a
state constitution, was mayor of Omaha and, after thirty years of unquestioned exercise of such rights and privileges, was elected governor of the
State of Nebraska, receiving a greater number of votes than any other
person voted for. He took the oath of office, and entered on the discharge
of its duties. His predecessor, as relator, filed an information in the

