OCTOBER TERAI\,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

not in violation of any rights secured to him by the Constitution of the United States.
There are no other questions in the case which require to be
noticed, and the judgment must be
Afflmed.

FIELDEN v. ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT 'OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 909.

Argued January 21, 26,1892.-Decided February 29, 1892.

F. was convicted of murder, in the Criminal Court of Cook County, Illinois,
and sentenced by that court to suffer the penalty of death. Upon writ of
error to the Supreme Court of Illinois, that judgment was affirmed and
the day fixed in the original judgment for carrying the 'sentence into execution having passed, that court fixed another 'day. After the expiration
of the term the accused applied for a correction of the record of the
Supreme Court, so as to show that he was not present in that court when
the original judgment was affirmed, and another day fixed for the execution. The application was denied upon the ground, in part, that amendments of the record of the court in derogation of the final judgment
could not be allowed at a subsequent term. Held,
(1) That the law of Illinois, as declared by its highest court, in respect
to ainendments of the record, was applicable to all persons within'
the jurisdiction of that State, and its enforcement against the
plaintiff in error was not a denial to him by the State of the
equal protection of the laws;
(2) That due process of law did not require the presence of the accused
in the appellate court when the original judgment of the trial
court was affirmed, and a new day fixed for his execution.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.A,. Benjamin F. Butler and Mrh. X. Salomon for plaintiff
in error.

.. r. George Hunt, Attorney General of the State of Illinois, (with whom was ,A&. E. S. Smith on the brief,) for
defendant in err9r.
MRi.

TUSTIcE

HARLA

N

delivered the opinion of the court.

FIELDEN v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois, rendered
September 14th, 1887, in the case of Spies et al. v. Illinois, and
which is set out in the opinion in Schwab v. Berggren, ante,
442, was before this court on application for a writ of error
which was dismissed November 2d, 1887. 123 U. S. 131.
As stated in the opinion in Schwab v. Berggren, ante, 442,
it was represented to the court below, by a petition filed
March 5th, 1888, by Fielden, Keebe and Schwab'three of the
defendants convicted in the Criminal Court of Cook County
of the crime of murder, that the order of September 14th,
1887, was false and untrue in its recital that they were in
court when it was entered; whereas, in fact, neither of them
was so present, in person or by counsel, nor were they or either
of them, or the counsel of either, notified to be present on that
day in court. They asked an amendment of the record that
would make it conform to the truth, and show upon its. face
the above facts. The application was supported by the affidavits of counjel. This motion was stricken from the docket
by order of court entered March 16, 1888. Subsequently,
March 22d, 1888, a motion was made to set aside that order,
and the application to amend the record, in the manner above
indicated, was renewed. This motion was taken under advisement, and its consideration deferred until the succeeding term;
and, on the 15th of March, 1889, was denied.
Subsequently, March 26th, 1889, Fielden, Schwab and Keebe
asked leave to amend the original motion, so as to add thereto
the following : "Arid in support of said motion to amend said
record your petitioners file herewith, and refer to the sanie
in support of amendment of said record, the affidavits of
Samuel -Fielden, Michael Schwab, Oscar W. Neebe, petitioners,
and W. P. Black and M. Salomon, petitioners" attorneys,
wherein it is set forth that none of the plaintiffs in error
appeared or could appear in this honorable court, where the
said judgment was given, nor were they or any of them present by counsel on said occasion, nor were their counsel notified
or furnished opportunity to be present on said occasion; and
petitioners further say and allege and claim that the said
recital in said record deprives petitioners and said plaintiffs in

OCTOBER TERMt, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

error of substantial rights guaranteed the said plaintiffs in
error by the Constitution of the United States and by the
constitution of the State of Illinois, and particularly in said
recital on said record and the judgment of this court, in violation of the 14th Amendment to the-Constitution of the United
States, and iii violation of section two of article two of the
constitution of the State of Illinois; and plaintiffs in error
claim"the benefit, right, privileges and immunities guaranteed
by the constitutional provisions referred to." At the same time,
they applied for a rehearing of the motion previously made,
claiming that the decision of the court below in overruling it
and in refusing to amend the record as requested by them was
in violation of the rights secured to them by the 14th Amendment of the Constitution of the United States and by other provisions of that instrument and also in violation of section two of
article two and other provisions of the constitution of the State
of Illinois. They insisted, in the application for a rehearing, that
a legal judgment could not have been rendered against them
unless they were brought before the court and were personally
present when the judgmhent against them was pronounced;
that the refusal to amend the record and permitting it to
stand as it was, deprived them of their right and privilege of
questioning the judgment so pronounced, "if petitioners shall
see fit to do so, in the United States Supreme Court, to which
petitioners claim they have a right of appeal from the 'judgment of this court condemning petitioners." They also applied
for leave to present a bill of exceptions, embodying the above
motions, amendment to motion, petition for rehearing, and
affidavits filed in support of the application to amend the
record. The Supreme Court of Illinois overruled each motion
and the petition for rehearing, and from its order to that effect
Fielden prosecuted this writ of error.
The Supreme Court of Illinois held that under. the practice
in that State, "amendments of the record in affirmance of the
judgment, when there is anything to amend by, may, upon
notice, be made at a term subsequent to that at which final
judgment is rendered; but amendments not in affirmance but
in derogation of the judgment are not allowed at a term sub-

FIELDEN v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

sequent to that at which final judgment is rendered.
.
This motion, not having been made at the' same term at
which final judgment was rendered, nor until the case had
passed beyond the power of this court to stay, by its order,
the execution of the judgment, clearly comes too late." In
order that it might not be understood as conceding that the
amendment, if made, would affect the validity of the judgment, the court proceeded to show that, according to the
principles of the common law, as well as under the laws of
Illinois, it had jurisdiction to hear- and finally determine, in
the absence of the defendants, the writ of error sued out for
the review of the judgment of the Criminal Court of Cook
County. It said: "If the present plaintiffs in error and their
counsel had been actually present in court when the judgment
of affirmance here was entered, the law allowed them to then
say or do nothing which by any possibility could have benefited plaintiffs in error. They were, after judgment was entered, entitled only to move for a rehearing, and this could
only be done on printed petition; but thirty days were allowed
in which to prepare it. 93 Illinois, 11, rule 41." "Undoubtedly," the court further said, "if plaintiffs in error or
their counsel had been actually present in court when the
decision was announced they would then have known what
the decision was, but that fact was equally well made known
to them by notice from the clerk, in ample time to avail of
their right to file a, petition for rehearing. And; if; indeed,
without any fault of theirs, more time* would have been
needed within which to prepare the petition for rel~earing it
was within the recognized practice of this court to have extended the time for that purpose beyond the. thirty days. But
no claim is here made that plaintiffs in error were not informed of the decision in the case in time to file a petition for
rehearing. They 'did .not seek to avail of that right, but
voluntarily waived it, and prosecuted a writ of error upon the
record from the Supreme Court of the United States, and it
was not until after that was decided adversely to-them that
they discovered the claimed error in the re6ord of which
amendment is now sought." Felden v. The People, 128
Illinois, 595.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff in error contends that the refusal to amend
the record, so as to show that he was not present in person
or by counsel in the Supreme Court of Illinois, at the time it
affirmed the judgment of the trial court, and fixed the day
for carrying that judgment into execution, was a denial to him
of that equal protection of the laws which is accorded by the
Constitution of the United States to all persons within the
jurisdiction of the respective States; also, that 'such action
upon the part of the court below was inconsistent with "due
process of law."
Assuming that these constitutional questions were so raised,
in the court below, as to authorize them to be considered here,
we are of opinion that no right, secured to the plaintiff in
error by the Constitution of the United States, was violated
by the refusal of the Supreme Court of Illinois to allow the
proposed amendment of its record. We take, as is our duty,
the law of Illinois to be as declared by its highest court, that
amendments of the record of a court, in derogation of its final
judgment, are not permitted in that State after the expiration
of the term at which the judgment was rendered. That law
is applicable to all persons within the jurisdiction of the State,
and its enforcement against the plaintiff in error cannot, therefore, be said to be a denial to him by the State of the equal
protection of the laws. Neither discussion nor citation of
authorities is required to support a proposition so manifestly
correct.
* When the original case was before this court, Chief
Justice
Waite said: "The objection that the defendants were not
actually present in the Supreme Court of the State at the
time sentence was pronounced cannot be made on the record
as it now stands, because on its face it shows that they were
present. If this is not in accordance with the fact, the record
must be corrected below, not here. It will be time enough to
consider whether the objection presents a Federal question
when the correction has been made." 8pies v. Illinois, 123
U. S. 131, 182. These observations were adverted to in argument, but we d.9 not perceive that they have any bearing on
the questions now raised. The Chief Justice only meant to

HOLY TRINITY CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.

457

Opinion of the Court.

say that this court could not amend the record, but if amended
by the court below, the question would. still remain whether
the objection referred to could be considered by this court.
Equally without merit is the suggestion that the action of
the court below in disposing of the writ of error to the Criminal Court of Cook County, in the absenc6 of the accused, was
not in conformity to "due process of law." This question
was determined in Sckwab v. Berggren, just decided, and we
do not deem it necessary to add anything to what is there
said.
Judgment affrmed.

CHURCH

OF THE HOLY TRINITY 'v. UNITED
STATES.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 143.

Argued and submitted January 7,1892.-Decided Februaiy 29, 1892.

The act of February 26, 1885, "to prohibit the importation and migration
of foreigners and aliens under contract .or agreement to perform labor
in the United States, its Territories, and the District of Columbia," 23
Stat. 332, c. 164, does not apply to a contract between ap alien, residing
out of the United States, and a religious society incorporated under the
laws of a State, whereby he engages to remove to the United States and
to enter into the service of the society as its rector or minister.

THE case is stated in the opinionl
.Ar. Seaman .Miller for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General .Maury for defendant in
error submitted on.his brief.

IMR. JusmF BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff in error is a corporation, duly organized and incorporated as a religious society under the laws of the State of
New York. E. Walpole Warren was, prior to September,

