FIELD v. CLARK.
Syllalbus.

only, those affecting ambassadors, other public. ministers and
consuls, and those in which a State shall be a party.
The judicial power extends to "controversies between two
or more States;" "between a State and citizens of another
State;" and "between a State or the citizens thereof, and
foreign States, citizens or subjects." Our original jurisdiction,
which depends solely upon the character of the parties, is confined to the cases enumerated, in which a State may be a
party, and this is not one of them.
The judicial power also extends to controversies to which
the United States shall be a party, but such controversies are
not included in the grant of original jurisdiction. To the controversy here the United States is a party.
We are of opinion, therefore, that this case is not within the
original jurisdiction of the court.

FIELD o. CLARK.
APPEAL

OM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STAPES

FOR

STATES

FIOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

BOYD v. UNITED STATES.
STERNBACII v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Noo. 1052, 1049,1050. ArguelNovember 30, December 1, 2,1891. -Decided February 29,1892.
The signing by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and by the
President of the Senate, in open session, of an enrolled bill, is an official
attestation by the two Houses of such bill as one that has passed Congress; and when the bill thus attested receives the approval of the
President, and is depositdd in the Department of State according to law,
its authentication as a bill that has passed Congress is complete and unimpeachable.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
IL is not competent to show from the journals of either House of Congress,
that an act so authenticated, approved and deposited, did not pass in the
precise-form in which it was signed by the presiding officers of the two
Houses and approved by the President.
Congress cannot, under the Constitution, delegate its legislative pow6r to
the President.
The authority conferred upon the President by section 3 of the act of
October 1, 1890, to reduce the revenue and equalize duties on imports,
and for other purposes, 26 Stat. c. 1244, pp. 567. 612, to suspend by proclamation the free introduction of sugar, molasses, coffee, tea and hides,
when he is satisfied that any country producing such articles imposes
duties or other exactions upon the agricultural or other products of the
United States, which he may deem to be reciprocally unequal or unreasonable, is, not open to the objection that it unconstitutionally transfers
legislative power to the President, (FuLLER, C. J., and LABAR, J., dissenting;) but even if it were it does not follow that other parts of the act
imposing duties upon imported articles, are inoperative.
The court does not decide whether the provision in that act respecting
bounties upon sugar (schedule E, Sugar, 26 Stat. 583) is or is not constitutional, because it is plain from the act that these bounties do not constitute a part of the system of customs duties imposed by the act, and it
is clear that the parts of the act imposing such duties would remain in
force even if tl~ese bounties were held to be unconstitutionally imposed.
Unless it be impossible to avoid it, a general revenue statute should never
be declared inoperative in all its parts because a particular part, relating
to a distinct subject, may be invalid.

THESE were suits by importers to obtain a refund of duties
claimed to have been illegally exacted on imported merchandise under the tariff act approved October 1, 1890, 26 Stat.
567, c. 1244.
Marshall Field & Co. proceeded against John M. Clark, the
collector of the port of Chicago, to recover duties paid on
woollen dress goods, woollen wearing apparel and silk embroideries.
Boyd,.Sutton & Co. proceeded against thb United States and
J. B. Erhardt, collector of the port of New York, to recover
duties paid upon an importation of silk and cotton laces.
H. Herman, Sternbach and Co. proceeded against the United
States to recover duties paid upon colored cotton cloths.
The main issue in all the cases was, whether that act, which
purports to repeal the previous tariff act 6f March 3, 1883, 22
Stat. 488, c. 12.1, had itself the force of law.

FIELD v. CLARK.
Argument of Mr. Bliss and Mr. Wilson for Appellants,

The facts which were presented in support of the contention
that the bill never became a law in accordance with the
provisions of the Constitution were three.
(1) That in engrossing the bill a clause known as section 30,
relating to a rebate of taxes on tobacco, which was shown by
the journals of both the House of Representatives and the
Senate to have been regularly passed by both Houses of Congress, was omitted, and that the engrossed act, as'attested by
the Vice-President and' the Speaker of the House, as approved
by the President, and as deposited with the Secretary of State,
was not the act which passed the two Houses of Congress,
and was therefore not a statute of the United States in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.
(2) That the first five paragraphs of Schedule E, section 1,
of the act, providing for bounties to producers of American
sugar (paragraphs 231 to 235), were unconstitutional and void,
no power to enact legislation of this character having been
vested in Congress by the Constitution.
(3) That section 3 of said act was unconstitutional and void,
in that it delegates to the President the power of laying taxes
and duties, which power, by sections 1 and 8 of article I of the
Constitution, is vested in Congress.
As the court in its opinion, post, has set forth these several
matters objected to at length, -it is sufficient to refer to it
for further details.
The judgment in each case in the court below was against
the importer. In*this court the three cases were argued
together, but by separate counsel for the appellants in each case,
each brief covering the whole case. In order not to go over
the same ground three times, the arguments for appellants
reported are: in No. 1052 on point (1); in No. 1049 on point
(2); and ir N'o. 1050 on point (3); that being the order in
which the cases stand in the opinion of the court.
.3fr. -. TI.Bliss and Xr. John P. Wilson for Marshall
Field & Co., appellants.
Where a bill, which passed both the House of Represent-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument of Mr. Bliss and Mr. Wilson for Appellants.

atives and the Senate, containing a clause which the Senate
opposed, and receded from their' opposition only after conference ordered, and which was engrossed and presented to
and signed by the President, omitting the cfause upon which
the controversy between the two houses took place, it renders
invalid not only the omitted section, but the entire act.
When a bill passed by one branch of the legislative body
differs materially from the bill passed by the other branch, or
ivhen one branch wholly fails to pass it, or whefi the bill approved by the Executive is materially different from the bill
passed by the two houses, it will be held to be a nullity.
Cooley, Const. Lim. 6th ed. 183.' This view of the law of the'
case at bar is sustained by the following cases: -3oody v.
State, 48 Alabama, 115; State v. Mfead, 71 Missouri, 266;
-,-urrittv. Commissioners, 120 Illinois, 322; State v. _0.esewetter, 45 Ohio St. 254; 'unt v. State, 22 Tex. App. 396;
Legg v. Annapolis, 42 Maryland, -203; Brady v. West, 50
Y.ssissippi, 68; Larrison v. Railroad Co., 77 Illinois, 11;
Walnut v. WVade, 103 U. S. 683; Wenner v. Thornton, 98
Illinois, 156; Dow v. Beidelman, 49 Arkansas, 325; Smithee
v. Cawapell,41 Arkansas, 471; Smithee v. Garth,33 Artansas,
17 ; Bound v. Visconsin Central Railroad,45 Wisconsin, 543;
.AIeracle v. Down, 64 Wisconsin, 323; Yise v. Bigger, 79 VWirginia, 269; People v. De Wolf, 62 Illinois, 253; Opinion of
Justices, 35 N. H. .679; JfXoog v. Randolph, 77 Alabama, 597;
Jones v. Hlutchinson, 43 Alabama, 721; Sayre v. Pollard,77
Alabama, 608; Stein v. Leeper, 78 Alabama, 517; State v.
Liedtke, 9 Nebraska, 462; Berry v. Baltimore & Drum Point
Railroad,41 Maryland, 446; State v. Hagood, 13 So. Car. 46.
In all these cases the decision was that the entire act is rendered void whenever there has been a material variance between the bill as passed and the bill as signed and approved.
The same may be said of the whole list of cases decided with
reference to their having an object or purpdsr not expressed
in the title, under constitutions requiring that each bill have
reference to but one subject, and more are included. In all
such cases the entire acts have always been held void, and not
merely the purpose unexpressed or the subject in excess, as

FIELD v. CLARK.
Argument of Mr. Bliss and Mr. Wilson for Appellants.

will appear in the following cases: Callaghan v. Ciprnan,59
Michigan, 610; 1?agio v. State, 86 Tennessee; 272; Leach v.
People, 122 Illinois, 420; People v. Beadle, 60 Michigan, 22;
t 'e Blodgett, 89 N. Y. 392; Grover v. Ocean Grove Camp
-Meeting, 45 N. J. Law (16 Yroom) 399; State v. Barrett, 27
Kansas, 213; ffadison County v. Baker, 80 Indiana, 374.
Judge Cooley, after saying that "the bill as signed must be
the same as it passed the two Houses," adds, that -a clerical
error that would not mislead may be overlooked, citing People
v. Onondaga, 16 Michigan, 254, 256. In that case the law was
passed by both Houses with a title authofizing the levying of
a certain bounty tax. In engrossing it for the governor's approval by a clerical error the word county was substituted for
bounty in the title; as by an inspection of the act itself which
used the correct wording, the error was such as to correct
itself, and no one could be misled by it, it was held not to invalidate the whole act, Cooley, J., saying, however: "I am
not prepared to say that an act of the legislature can be valid
which as engrossed for the signature of the governor would be
void if passed by the legislature in that form. A. law must
have the concurrence of the three branches of the legislative
department, and if it differs in an essential particularwhen
presented to the governor for his signature from the bill as
passed by the two Houses, there is difficulty in saying that it
See also Prescott v. Canal
has been concurred in by all."
Trustees, 19 Illinois, 324; Smith v. iloyt, 14 Wisconsin, 273.
These cases sufficiently indicate what Mr. Cooley means by
a "clerical error that would not mislead." It cannot by any
possibility refer to, or cover, the omission of a section, clause
or proviso wihich is a-material part of the act itself.
In the case at bar the omitted clause was an entire section
of the original bill. It was such an important clause of the
bill as to be the subject of contention between the two Houses.
It was of such consequence that when found to have been
omitted from the enrolled act it was enacted under a suspension of the rules at the succeeding session, as an independent
law. Can it be possible, under the authorities cited, that the
Board of General Appraisers were correct in holding in effect

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argi3ment of Mr. Bliss and Mr. Wilson for Appenants.

that where a bill which is passed by the two Houses is in such
different terms or varies so materially in substance and legal
effect from that which is approved by the President, as in the
case presented, there still exists such a legal and actual identity between the bill passed and the one approved as that the
one approved acquires the force and validity of a constitutional
enactment?
"The act of October 1, 1890, Was before the Board of Appraisers, and its constitutionality was challenged. If it was
invalid for any reason, then the contention of appellants was
correct, and the act of March 3, 1883, was in force. The act
of October 1, 1890, largely increased the duties upon the
goods of appellants, and imposed upon them greater burdens
than were leviable under the act claimed by appellants to
govern. With reference to the questions determining which
law was in force, that creating the greater burdens, or that
imposing the lesser tax, the Board of Appraisers was in serious
doubt. The main question was, which burden was the citizen
to bear, which tax to pay? What should have been the canon
of construction in such a case? Justice Story in United States
v. Migglesworth, 2 Story, 373, says: "It is, I conceive, a general rule, in the interpretation of all statutes, levying taxes -or
duties upon subjects or citizens, not to extend their provisions
by implication beyond the clear import of the language used,
nor to enlarge their, operations so. as to embrace matter not
specifically pointed out, although standing upon close analogy.
In every case, therefore, of doubt, such statutes are construed
most strongly against the government, and in favor of the
subjects or citizens, because burdens are not to be imposed
beyond what the statutes expressly and clearly import." See
also Potter's Dwarris Stats. 235; Tomkins v. Aekby, 6 B. & C.
541; TFarringto v. Furbor, 8 East, 242; Gildart v. Gladstone, 11 East, 675; Eingstorn .DockCo. v. Browne, 2 B. & Ad.
43; Powers v. Barney, 5 Blatchford, 203.
It is submitted that under the doctrines of the- text books
and decisions on this question, the moment a doubt was established as to N9hich law governed, the former law, or the
alleged law largely increasing duties, that moment should

FIELD v. CLARK.
Argument of Mr. Bliss and

ir. Wilson for Appellants.

have solved the doubt against the government, and in favor
of the citizen who has the burden to bear, the money to pay:
that the Board of Appraisers erred in affirming the decision
of the collector of the port upholding an appraisement undei
an alleged act, largely increasing the burdens of taxation upon
a citizen, when it was seriously in doubt whether the alleged
act had been constitutionally enacted and become a valid law;
which error was continued in the pro forma decision of the
Circuit Court affirming the decision of the Board of Appraisers. See also Gurr v. Scuddq, 11 Exch. f 90; Conroy v. Trarren, 3 Johns. Cas. 259; 2. C. 2 Am. Dec. 156; M'igh4t v.
Briggs, 2 Hill, 77; Tha Liver-pool Hero, 2 Gallison, 184;.
Adams'v. Ban croft, 3 Sumner, 384; Ric ardson v. EPnswiler,
14 La. Ann. 658; Chiase v. -Yew York. Central -Railoacl,26
N. Y. 352.
Nor can the omitted clause be held to be trivial. The
House proposed the bill reducing the tax and, as a condition,
consideration and compensation for such reduction, by a.clause
connected therewith and dependent thereon, provided for a
rebate. The Senate struck out the condition, the House adhered to it, the Senate receded from its action, and the bill
passed. Is it conceivable that the House would have passed
the part of the section reducing the tax, without the rebate
clause? They refused to do it. They intended that the execution of their act reducing the tax should be tempered by
the rebate clause, and this became the intent of the act as
passed by the two Houses. How then can the legislative
intent in this regard be carried into effect, with this clause
expunged? It seems too plain to argue that it cannot. It
therefore comes directly within the principle that it is only
when the remainder is capable of being executed in accordance
with the apparent legislative intent, wholly independent of
that which was rejected, that it is capable of being sustained.
In Allen v. Loui6iana, 103 U. S. 80, 83, Chief Justice Waite
said: "It is an elementary principle that the same statute may
be in part constitutional and in part unconstitutional, and that
if the parts are wholly independent of each other that which
is constitutional may stand, while that which is uncpnstitu-

656

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Argument of Mr. Wickham Smith for Appellants.

tional will be rejected. 'But' as was said by Chief Justice
Shaw, in Warren v. Xlayor an'd Aldermen of Ckalestown, 2
Gray, 84, 'If they are so mutually connected with and' dependent on each other as conditions, considerations or compensations for each other as to warrant a belief that the
legislature intended them as a whole and that, if all could not
be carried into effect, the legislature would not pass the residue independently and some parts are unconstitutional, all
the provisions which are thus dependent, conditional or connected must fall with them.' The point to be determined is,
whether thte unconstitutional provisions are so connected with
the general scope of the law as to make it impossible, if they
are stricken out, to give effect to what appears to have been
the intent of the legislature." The principle governing these
decisions, as. enunciated by Chief Justice Shaw in this case,
has been universally cited with approval and followed. The
application of it to the.case at bar unaer the decisions quoted
seems perfect. The same doctrine is held in Eckhart v. State,
5 West Va. 515 ; Tillrnan v. Cooke, 9 Baxter, 429 ; -Meyer v.
Berldndi, 39 Minnesota, 438; State v.1"ank County, 62 Wisconsin, 376; State v. Ranger, 5 Arkansas, 412; Thorne v.
Cramer, 15 Barb. 112; .Parkerv. Commonwealth, 6 Penn. St.
507; S. C. 47 Am. Dec. 480,; Heshmeier v. State, 11 Indiana,
482; Lathrop v. Xills, 19 California, 513; State v. Copeland,
3 R. I. 33 ; State v. Sinkes, 42 Ohio St. 345 ; State v. -Pugh, 43
Ohio St. 98; Racer v. Union Township, 39 N. J. Law (10
.Yroom) 509; Flanagan v. Plainfield, 44 N. J. Law (15
Vroo 5 ) 118; W..U. Tel. Co. v. State, 62_Texas, 630; Child v.
Shower, .18 Iowa, 261; Union Paecft iWailroad v. Atchison,
28 Kansas, 453; -Moorev.,2New Orleans, 32 La. Ann. 726.
Mr. W. Wickhanm Smith- (with whoio was Mr. Charles Curie
on the brief) for Boyd, Sutton & Co., appellants.
Section 3 of the act commonly called the "reciprocity section I' is unconstitutional beca.use it is a-delegation of legislative power to the executive. It delegates to the President the
.power to determine, as to the five articles therein specified:
(1) From what countries they must.pay duty; (2) When they

FIELD v. CLARK.
Argument of Mr. Wickham Smith for Appellants.

shall begin to pay it; (3) How long they shall continue to pay
it. The only point not left to his discretion is the amount to be
paid. The Constitutibn, Art. 1, see. 8, says: The Congress shall
have power to lay and collect taxes; duties, imports and excises.
One of the settled maxims in constitutional law is that the
power conferred upon the legislature to make laws cannot be
delegated by that department to any other body or authority.
Where the sovereign power of the State has located the authority there it must remain; and by'.the constitutional agency
alone the laws must be made until the cbnstitution itself is
changed. Cooley Const. Lim. c. 11, p. 137.
-- It would seem that if there was any class of laws to which
this principle should be strictly applied it is tax laws; laws by
which the government puts forth its strong arm to take the
property of the citizen from him to apply to its own purposes,
or, as in this act, to bounties. No power conferred upon the
legislature should be more jealously guarded or more cautiously
or more scrupulously exercised. Yet here we ia~ve a law which
delegates to the President of the United States the power, by
a mere stroke of his pen, to impose an onerous and burdensome tax on articles, all of which are the subject of -daily consumption by the people of the whole country, some of which
cannot be produced here, and none of which can be produced
here in sufficient quantities to supply 'the people's needs. It
delegates to him the power of determining when to tax them
and how long to tax them. On these questions his judgment,
wisdom and patriotism are substituted for that of the people's
representatives.
It has been sought to defend this power on the ground that
laws have frequently been passed to take effect upon the happening of a future event, and that such legislation has been
pronounced constitutional. Without discussing the soundness
of such judicial decisions, it is sufficient to say that such cases
are not parallel to the one now under consideration. A law
may take effect on the happening of a future event. An event
is afact. The question whether ft has or has not happened is
one which anybody can readily determine. No exercise of
judgment or wisdom is necessary. It is a matter of simple
VOL. cxqn-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument of Mr. Wickham Smith for Appellants.

intelligence. All questions that involve judgment and discretion are passed upon by the legislature. But in the case of
this law, none of such questions were passed upon by the Congress. They were all committed to the wisdom, discretion and
patriotism of the President.
A case much relied on in support of this section is The Brig
Aurora v. The United States, 7 Cranch, 382.
There are three reasons why this case should have little
weight as an authority: (1) It was decided at a very early
date, before the principles of constitutional government had
received the consideration and discussion which they have
since receiVed: (2) The point does not seem to have been carefully considered. At any rate the bare conclusion is stated
without any exposition of the principles involved, and with no
statement of the reasons on which it is based. Such cases
,ire seldom deemed entitled to be considered as authoritative
except on the precise question involved: (3) The power delegated to the President by the act then under consideration.
was not a taxing power; but the determination of the question whether a European government had so modified its
edicts as to*cease to violate neutral commerce. While this
involved a certain amount of judgment, it was not such an
abdication of legislative functions as that in section 3 of the
Tariff -Act. The power there delegated to the President .was
almost a war power, conferred at a time when our relations
with England and France were strained, and relating to a
subject which two years later involved us ina war with Eng,
land. The power now conferred upon the President is a taxing power conferred at a time when we are at peace with all
the world. See Thorne v. Cramer, 15 Barb. 112; S. C. 47 Am.
Dec. 480 ; Rice v. Foster, 4 Harrington (Del.) 479; State v.
Simons, 32 Minnesota, 540; ExEvarte Wall, 48 California, 279;
State v. Hudson County Commissioners, 37 N. J. Law (8
Vroom) 12; State v. Swisher, 17 Texas, 441 ; Clark v. .Mobile,
67 Alabama, 217; Grin v. Weissenberg School -District, 57
Penn. St. 433; S.C.98 Am. Dec. 237; Brodhead v. fjilwaukee,
19 Wisconsin, 624; State v. Weir, 33 Iowa, 134; Farnsworth
Co. v. -Lisbon,62 Maine, 451; Willis v. Owen, 43 Texas, 41.

FIELD v. CLARK.
Argument of Mr. Clarke and Mr. E. B. Smith for Appellants.

We submit that a statute which delegates to the executive
the discretion to determine when and for how long and on
what portion of the importations of a particular article (according to the country of its growth or production) a tax shall be
levied, according to his judgment and discretion as to the fairness and justice of it, fixing only the amount of such tax when
levied, is an unconstitutional delegation of the taxing power.
The incorporation in this act of the unconstitutional delegation of the taxing power in section 3, renders the whole act
void.
This section relates to the same subject matter as the main
portion of the bill, viz.: taxe on imports. It is an essential
part of the scheme contemplated by said act. It was certainly
one of the conditions and compensations for various other
parts of the bill, for it recite§ substantially that the free introduction into the United States of sugar, molasses, coffee, tea
and hides was enacted with a view to securing reciprocal trade
with countries producing those articles and fol- that purpose.
Can the court believe that Congress would have passed this
act without this section? The answer is, Congress refused to
do so. This section was not in the bill as it passed the House.
It was incorporated as an amendment by the Senate. The
House refused to concur in the amendment. The Senate insisted on it. The Conference Committee of the two Houses
retained it with an amendment- simply as to the time of its
taking effect. How then can it be said as matter of law that
the act would have been passed without it? It is a matter of
public knowledge that it was regarded at the time, and has
been since, as one of the vital parts of the bill.

.A1r. Edwi,. B. Smith and Mr. StepIhen G. OMarke for H.
Herman Sternback & Co., appellants.
Application of the principles and decisions of this court to
the provisions found in paragraphs 231 to 236 of Schedule E
of this act, giving a bounty to thie producers of native sugar,
manifest their unconstitutionality. Certainly, there is no
more constitutional authority for paying men to tap a maple

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument of 31r. Clarke and Mr. E. B. Smith for Appellants.

and boil. its sap, or to raise cane, than there is to raise hay,
potatoes, corn or cabbage. If- the taxes constituting the funds
in the national treasury can be collected and disbursed to
compensate a man for making sugar, they can be for making
brick or-any other manufacture. There can be, in such case,
no limit to the extent to which moneys raised by taxation can
be appropriated to the individual benefit of preferred citizens,
and in the encouragement of their private enterprises and to
their personal gain. Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall.
655; Jarroltv. .3oberly, 103 U. S. 580; United States v. New
Orleans, 98 U. S. 381; Rails County v. United States, 105
U. S. 733;t Parkersburgv. Brown, 106 U. S. 487; 0ole v. 1a
Grange, 113 U. S. 1.
Wherever state courts nave had occasion to pass upon this
question, it; has been answered in the same way. Allen v.
Jay, 60 Maine, 124; Booper v. Emery, 14 Maine, 375; Weismer v. Douglas, 64 N. Y. 91; Brewer'Brick Co. v. Brewer,
62 Maine, 62; Farnsworth Co. v. Lisbon, 62 Maine, 451; Ohio
Falley Iron WVork v. .MoundsvillP, 11 West Virginia, 1;
Trustees Channel Co. v. Central Pai%
Railroad, 51 California, 269; Curtis v. Whipple, 24 Wisconsin, 350; Bissell v.
KYankakee, 64 Illinois, 248; State v. Osawkee, 14 Kansas; 418;
State v. _emaha Co., 7 Kansas, 542; licCon-nell v. Hamm, 16
Kansas, 228; State v. Foley, 30 Minnesota, 350.
The relation between.the government and the citizen, as a
tax-payer, is that the latter's property is, pro tanto, taken for
the direct.support ot the former-not for the benefit of any
fellow-citizens individually. Pray v. Northern Liberties, 31
Penn. St. 69; Sharpless v. llayor, 21 Penn. St. 147; S. C.
,59 Am. Dec. 759; In re Afayor, -1 Johns. 77; Tfynekamer v.
People, 13 X. Y. 375.
Many cases beside-, those above cited treat such legislation
as void, because a violation of natural right, independent of
constitutions. Calder v. Bull, 3 Dali. 386: Wilkinson v. Zeland, 2 Pet. 627; Osborn v. Nicholson, 13 Wall. 654; Gunn
v. Barry,15 Wall.' 610; BaYterneyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129.
The connection of parts in this statute is such that the
avoidance of any. materfal provision which received executive
approval must nullify the whole.

FIELD v. CLARK.
Citations for Appellees.

It is a substitute for Title XXXIII of the Revised Statutes,
as the act of 1883 is wholly superseded thereby.

It constitutes one connected system, arranged with relation
to its several parts; constituting a statutory embodiment of
what is known in English legislative parlance as the budget;
or the r'esult of an examination made to determine the amount
of estimated revenues, needed to meet estimated requirements.
There is a mutual relation and interdependence between
the duties upon woollen goods and .'upon wool; between the
bounty upon domestic sugar and the placing of foreign upon
the free list, and the latter's conditional subjection to duty, at
the ivill of the President.
X112. Attorney General and Mr12. Solicitor General for appellees. To the Government's brief was attached an appendix
containing a list of the authorities, by States, upon the question whether the legislative journals could be .used to impeach
the completely enrolled act, duly recorded and autltenticated.
This list is printed in the margin.'
1 Alabama. - In Alabama it is held that the validity of the seeming acts
may be inquired into, and the presumption from due enrolment overthrown
by the journals. Dew v. Cunningham, 28 Ala. 466; Jones v. Hutchinson, 43 Ala.
721; Moody v. The State, 48 Ala. 115; State v. Buckley, 54 Ala. 599; Harrison
v. Gordy, 57 Ala. 49; Perry County v. Railroad'Co., 58 Ala. 546; Walker v.
Griffith, 60 Ala. 361; Moot"v. .andolph, 77 Ala. 597; Sayre v. Pollard, 77
Ala. 608: Abernathy v. The State, 78 Ala. 411; Stein v. Leeper, 78 Ala. 517;
Hall v. Steele, 82 Ala. 562.
Arkansas.- In Arkansas the journals control the enrolled act. Burr v.
Ross, 19"Ark. 250; Vinsant v. Knox, 27 Ark. 266; English v. Oliver, 28 Ark.
317; State v. Little Rock 6- Texas Railway, 31 Ark. 701; Worthen v. Badgett,
32 Ark. 496; Smithee v. Garth, 33 Ark. 17; State v. Crawford, 35 Ark. 237;
Chicot County v. Davies, 40 Ark. 200; Smithee v. Campbell, 41 Ark. 471; Webster v. Little Rock, 44 Ark. 536; Davis v. Gaines, 48 Ark. 370; Dow v. BeidelWan, 49 Ark. 325; Glidewell v. MJfartin, 51 Ark. 559,
It is noticeable that in the last case and in two previous cases, the judges
delivering the opinions intimate a wish that the English rule were in force.
California.-In California the rulings have been various.
In Fowler v. Peirce, 2 Cal. 165, the court permitted oral evidence to be
introduced to show that an act was approved by the governor after adjournment. This case was overruled in Sherman v. Story, 30 Cal. 253, where it
was held that the enrolled -act could not be impeached by the journals.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

MP..

JUSTicE

HAR.At

delivered the opinion of the court.

Duties were assessed and collected, according to the rates
established by what is known as the Tariff Act of October 1,
This was followed in People v. Burt, 43 Cal. 560. After these two cases
were decided a new constitution was adopted in California, under which
the journals have bden examined to impeach the enrolled bill. County of
San Mateo v. So.-Pac. Railroad,8 Sawyer, 238; Wfeill v. Kenfield, 54 Cal. 111;
Oakland Paving Co. v. Hilton, 69 Cal. 479; People v. Dunn, 80 Cal. 211.
Colorado.-In Colorado the journals control the enrolled act. In re Roberts, 5 Col. 525; Hughes v. Felton, 11 Col. 489.
Connecticut.-In Connecticut the journals cannot be used to impeach the
recorded aci. _&d v. Gorhan, 20 Conn. 8.
Dakota Territory.-In Dakota Territory ex rel. v. O'Connor, 5 Dak. 397, it
was held that the certificate of the presiding officers to the passage of the
bill would not be overthrown by the mere silence of the journals. The
question of a conflict between the enrolled act and the journals was not
considered.
Delaware,- We have found no cases in this State in which the question
is raised.
Florida.-In this State the 'journal may be resorted to to impeach the
enrolled act. State v. Brown, 20 Fla. 407; State v. Deal, 24 Fla. 293.
Georgia.- So far as our examination has extended, there are no cases on
the subject in Georgia.
Idaho. -No cases found on the subject.
Illinois. -In this State the journals control in any conflict between them
and the enrolled act as to the validity thereof. Spangler v. Jacoby, 14 Ill.
297; Tirley v. Logan County, 17 Ill. 151; People v. Hatch, 19 Ill. 283; Prescott
v. Ill. 6- Sich. Canal Trustees, 19 Ill. 324; Schuyler County v. People ex rel., 25
Ill. 181; People v. Starne, 35 Ill. 121; Wabash 6-c. Railroadv. Hughes, 38 Ill.
174; Illinois Central Railroadv. Wren, 43 Ill. 77; Bedard v. Hall, 44 Il1. 91;
Grob v. Cushman, 45 II. 119; People v. DelVolf, 62 I1. 253; Hensoldt v. Petersburg, 63 I1. 157; Ryan v. Lynch, 68 Ill. 160; Happel v. .Brethauer, 70 Ill. 166;
Miller v. Goodwin, 70 Ill. 659; Plummer v. The People, 74 IlL. 361"; Larrison1r.
-Peoria4c. Railroad Co., 77 In. 11; Binz v. Weber, 81 Ill. 288; People v. LoewenthaI, 93 Ill. 191;, Ienner v. Thornton, 98 Ill. 156; Burritt v. Commissioners of
State Contracts, 120 Ill. 332; Leach v. The People, 122 Ill. 420; South Ottawa v.
Perkins, 94 U. S. 260; Walnut v. Wade, 103 U. S. 683; Ohio v. Frank, 103 U. S.
697; Post v. Supervisors, 105 U. S. 667.
Indiaha.-In Indiana now, the journals do not control the enrolled act.
Fokmerly they were consulted for the purpose of impeaching the act. The
journals were referred to in Skinner v. Deming, 2 Ind. 558; Coleman v. Dobbins, 8 Ind. 156; McCulloch v. The State, 11 Ind. 424; Coburn v. Dqdd, 14 Ind.
847.
The rule was changed and the enrolled act held conclusive of its valid

FIELD v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

1890, on woollen dress goods, woollen wearing apparel and
silk embroideries, imported by Marshall Field & Co.; on silk
passage. Evans v. Browne, 30 Ind. 514; Bender v. The State, 53 Ind. 254;
Edger v. Board of Commissioners of Randolph County, 70 Ind. 331; State v.
Dinny, 21 N. E. Rep. 252.
Iowa. - In Iowa the enrolled act in the Secretary of State's office is held
to be the ultimate proof of the law. Clare v. The State, 5 Iowa, 510; Duncombe v. Prindle, 12 Iowa, 1.
Where the validity of a constitutional aibeudment was in question, as
different provisions of the constitution hpplied, it was held that the journals could be consulted. Koehler 6- Lange v. Hill, 60 Iowa, 543.
Kansas.-In Kansas the enrolled act is controlled by the journals. Haynes
v. Heller, 12 Kans. 384, Reporter's note; Dwision of Howard County, 15 Kans.
194; Leavenworth County Commissionersv. Higginbotham, 17 Kans. 62; Prohibitory
Amendment Cases, 24 Kans. 700; State v. Francis, 26 Kans. 724; In re Vanderberq, 28 Kans. 243; Weyand v. Stover, 35 Kans. 545; Kansas v. Robertson, 41
Kans. 200.
Kentucky. - In Kentucky the question has not been squarely decided
whether the'journals in a conflict would overcome the presumption of the
enrolled act, but the intimations of the court are that it would. Commonwealth v. Jackson, 5 Bush, 680; Auditor v. Raycrofl, 14 Bush, 284.
Loisiana.-In this State it is held that the enrolled act is conclusive.
The Louisiana State Lottery Co. v. Richoux, 23 La. Ann. 743; Whited v. Lewis, 25
La. Ann. 5G8.
Maine. - In this State the enrolled act is held to be the best evidence,
and not to be overcome by the journals where its record is complete. Weeks
v. Smith, 81 Me. 538.
Maryland.- In this State the enrolled act was at first held to be conclusive. Afterwards the decisions are that it may be impeached by the journals. The first series of cases is: Fouke v. Fleming, 13 Ald. 392; Mayror etc.
of Annapolis v. Harwood, 32 Md. 471.
Under a new constitution the following cases held that the enrolled act
might be impeached by the journals and other evidence: Berry v. Baltimore
6- Drnm Point Railroad, 41 Ald. 446; Legg v. Annapolis, 42 Md. 203; &trauss
v. Ieiss,48 Md. 292.
il[assachusetts.-In
this State no cases have been found bearing on the
subject.
MihIqan. - In this State the enrolled act is controlled by the entries on
the journals.- Sonthworth v. Palmyra 6- Jackson Railroad, 2 Gibbs, 287; Green
v. Grares, I Douglass, 351; Hurlbut v. Britain, 2 Douglass, 191 ; People v
.3ahaney, 13 Mich. 481; People v. Onondaga County Supervisors, 16 Mich. 254;
Steckert v. East Saqinaw, 22 Mich. 104; Pack v. Barton, 47 Mich. 520; Attorney General v. Joq, 55 Mich. 94; Callaghan v. Chipman, 59 Mich. 610; Attorney General v. Rice, 64 Mich. 385; People ex rel. Hart v. 4McElro!1, 72 Mich
446; Sackrider v. S ginaw County Supervisors, 79 Mich. 59; Stow v. 4r7-nt

OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

and cotton laces imported by Boyd, Sutton & Co.; and on
colored cotton cloths imported by Herman, Sternbach & Co.
26 Stat. 567, c. 1244, § 1.
Rapids, 79 Mich. 595; Rode v. Phelps, 80 Mich. 598; Caldwell v. Ward, 83
Mich. 13; People ex rel. v. Burch, 84 Mich. 408.
Minnesota.- In this State it is held that the journals control the enrolled
act. Supervisors v. Heenan, 2 Minn. 330; State v. -Hastings,24 Minn. 78;
Burt v. Winona 6- St. Peter Railroad, 31 Minn. 472; Minnesota v. Peterson, 38
Minn. 143; Lincoln v. Haugan, 45 Minn. 451.
Mississippi.-In this State the enrolled act is held conclusive. In one
case a different rule was laid down, namely, in the case of Brady v. West, 50
Miss. 68. The case was oVerruled. The following cases hold ,the law conclusive: Green v. Weller, 32 Miss. 650; Green V. Weller, 33 Miss. 735; Swann
v. Buck, 40 Miss. 268; Exparte Wren, 63 Miss.'512.
-3issouri.-Inthis State the enrolled act was at first held conclusive,
though where an amendment to the constitution was in question, the journals were consulted.. State v. McBride, 4 Mo. 303.
The following case held the enrolled act to be conclusive: Pacific B. 1?.
v. The Governor, 23 Mo. 353.
Upon the change of the constitution the legislative journals have been
allowed to impeach the recorded act. Bradley v. West, 60 Mo. 33; State v.
Mead, 71 Mo. 266.
Montana. -In this State no cases have been found on the subject.
Nebraska.-In this State the journals are used to impeach the enrolled
act. tull v. Miller, 4 Neb. 503; State v. Liedtke, 9 Neb. 462; Cottrell v. The
State, 9 Neb. 125; Ballou v. Black, 17 Neb. 389; State v. McLelland, 18 Neb.
236; State ex rel. Poole v. Robinson, 20 Neb. 96; In re Groff, 21 Neb. 647; State
v. Van Duyn, 24 Neb. 586.
.Nevada.- In this State the enrolled act is held conclusive. State v.Swift,
10 Nev. 176; State v. Rogers, 10 Nev.250; State v. Glenn, 18 Nev.34.
In:State ex rel. Stevenson v. Tufty, 19 Nev.391, where the constitution required an amendment to be enteredin full on the journals, an amendment
was held invalid because the requirement was not complied with.
2New Hampshire.- In this State the enrolled act is controlled by the journals. Opinions'of the Justices, 35 N. H. 579; Opinions of the Justices, 45 N. H.
607; Opinions of the Justices, 52 14. H. 622.
New Jersey. - In this State the enrolled act is held to be the most appropriate evidence of the law, and is not overcome by inconsistent entries in
the journals. Pangborn v. Young, 32 N. J. Law, 29; Freeholders of Passaic
County v. Stevenson, 46 N. J. Law, 173; Standard Underground Cable Co. v.
The Attorney General, 46 N. J. Eq. 270.
New York. - rn New York the Revised Statutes (1 Rev. Stats. 187, sections 10 and 11) provided that the Secretary of State should receive the
enrolled act, and should endorse upon it the day, month and year when
the same became a law, and that his certificate should be conclusive of the

FIELD v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

The importers severally protested against the assessment
upon the ground that the act was not a law of the United
facts stated therein. There was also a provision that no bill should be
deemed to be passed by the assent of two-thirds of the members, unless the
fact was certified by the presiding officer of each house. The question
arose in a number of cases whether certain acts had been passed which
were acts of incorporation and were required by the constitution of New
York to be adopted by a two-thirds vote. It was held that, for the purpose of ascertaining the vote, recourse might be had to the original enrolled act on file in the Secretary of State's office, and that the absence of
the certificate of the presiding officers to a two-thirds vote avoided the act.
Thomas v. Dakin, 22 Wend. 9; Wfrarner v. Beers, 23 Wend. 103; Hunt v. Van
Alstyne, 25 Wend. 663; People v. Pardy, 2 Hill, 31; Purdy v. People, 4 Hill,
384; De Bow v. People, 1 Denio, 9; Commercial Bank of Buffao v. Sparrow,
2 Denio, 97.
It was also stated by one or two judges in a semble (Warner v. Beers,
23 Wend. 125; People v. Purdy, 4 Hill, 384; De Bow.v. People, 1 Denio, 14)
that the journals might also be examined, but these dicta have not been
followed. The present law in New York is that the journals cannot be
consulted to determine whether an act has been passed by the requisite
vote. People v. Chenango County Supervisors, 8 N. Y. 317; People v. Devlin,
33 N. Y. 269, 283; People v. Marlborough Highway Commissioners, 54 N. Y. 276.
In the case of People v. Petrea, 92 N. Y. 128, where the constitution required that all acts, like the act in question, to be valid must be reported
by a commission, it was held that the journal might be resorted to to show
that the act was not reported by the commission. This view grew out of
a peculiar provision of the constitution, and does not take New York out
of the line of those States which hold that the enrolled act cannot be impeached by entries upon the journals.
iVorth Carolina.- In North Carolina it is held that the enrolled act is conclusive. Broadnax v. Groom, 64 N. C. 244; State ex rel. Scarborough v. Robinson, 81 N. C. 409.
Ohio.-In this State the journals are permitted to control the enrolled
act. State v. Moffitt, 5 Ohio, 358; Miller v. The State, 3 Ohio St. 475; Fordyce v. Godman, 20 Ohio St. 1; Herron v. Smith, 44 Ohio St. 348; State v.
Kiesewetter, 45 Ohio St. 254.
Oregon. -In this State the-journals control the enrolled act. Murnford
v. Sewall, 11 Ore. 67, 71; State v. Wright, 14 Ore. 365.
Pennsylvania.- In this State, whil6,the question is not clearly settled, the
tendency of the decisions is t6wards the conclusiveness of the enrolled act.
Speer v. Plank Road Co., 22 Penn. St. 376; Southwark Bank v. The Commonwealth, 26 Penn. St. 446; Kilgore v. Magee, 85 Penn. St. 401; Commonwealth
v. Martin, 107 Penn. St. 185.
In Southwark Bank v. The Commonwealth, the journals were consulted to
determine which of two bills 'passed first. In Commonwealth v. Martin, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

States. Upon appeal to the Board of General Appraisers
under the act of June 10, 1890, known as the Customs Admin-

istrative Act, the decision of the collector in each case was
approved, c. 407, sees. 14, 15, 26 Stat. 131, 137.

The judg-

presiding judge of the lower court declined to look into the journals, following Pangborn v. Young, and the case was decided by the Supreme-Court
without examining the journals.
Rhode Island-In this State we have found no cases on the subject.
South Carolisa.-In
this State the journals are permitted to control the
presumption from the enrolled act. State v. Platt, 2 S. C. 150; State v.
Smalls, 11 S. C. 262; Walker v. South Carolina, 12 S. C. 200; State v. Hagood, 13
S. C. 46.
Tennessee. -In
Tennessee the journals are permitted to control the presumption from the enrolled act. State v. McConnell, 3 Lea, 332; Gaines v.
Hrrigan,I Lea, 608; Williams v. The State, 6 Lea, 549; Brewer v. Huntingdon,
86 Tenn. 732; State v. Algood, 87 Tenn. 163.
Texas. -In Texas the enrolled act is held to be the best evidence and
is not controlled by the journals. Central Pacific Railway v. Hearne, 32 Texas,
546; Blessing v. Galveston, 42 Texas, 641; Houston 4 Texas Central Railway v.
Odum, 53 Texas, 343; Day Land 6- Cattle Co. v. The State, 68 Texas, 526; Usener v. The State, 8 Texas App. 177 Hunt v. The State, 22 Texas App. 396;
Ex parte Tipton, 28 Texas App. 438.
In Hunt v. The State, supra, the journals were examined, but Ezparte Tipton practically overrules that case, and restores to authority Usener v. The
State, which held the enrolled act conclusive.
Vermont. - In this State there is no decision by the Supreme Court of
the State. Judge Prentiss, of the United States District Court, In the matter of Wellman, 20 Vermont, 656, expressed the opinion that the enrolled act
was the only proper evidence, not only of its existence as a law, but of the
time.of its commencement, "though it may be necessary and admissible in
somd instances, particularly when an act becomes a law by not being
signed or returned with objections, or by being returned and repassed by
Congress, to carry back the inquiry to the legislative journals."
Virginia.- In this State the enrolled act is not conclusive, and the journals are permitted to control the presumption therefrbm. Wise v. Biggar,
79 Va. 269.
Washington. - In this State we have found no cases on the subject.
West Virginia. - In this State the enrolled act is controlled by entries
upon the journals. Osborn v. Staley, 5 W. Va. 85.
1 Wisconsin. - In this State the presumption from the enrolled act
is controlled by the journalg. Watertown v. Cady, 20 Wis. 501; Bound v. Wisconsin
Central Railroad Co., 45 Wis. 543; Aferacle v. Down, 64 Wis. 323.
Wuoming. - In this State the presumption from the enrolled act is controll ' by the journals. Brown v. Nash, 1 Wyo. 85; Union Pacific Railroad
f. Carr, 1 Wyo. 96.

FIELD v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of the board having been affirmed by the Circuit Courts
of the United States in the respective districts in which these
matters arose, the cases have been brought here for review.
The appellants question the validity of the act of October
1, 1890, upon three grounds to be separately examined.
-First. The seventh section of article one of the Constitution
of the United States provides: "All bills for raising revenue
shall originate in the House of Representatives, but the Senate
may propose or concur with amendments as on other bills.
"Every bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it becomes a law, be presented to the President of the United States; if he approve
he shall sign it, but if not he shall'return it, with his objections
to that house in which it shall have originated, who shall enter
the objections at large on their journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If, after such reconsideration, two:thirds of that house
shall agree to pass the bill, it shall be sent, together with the
objections, to the other house, by which it shall likewise b&
reconsidered, and, if approved by two-ttirds of that house, it
shall become a law. But in all such cases the votes of both
houses shall be determined by yeas and nays, and the names
of the persons voting for and against the bill shall be entered
on the journal of each house respectively. 1f any bill shall
not be returned by the President within ten days (Sundays
excepted) after it shall have been presented to him, the same
shall be a law, in like manner as if he had signed it, unless the
Congress by their adjournment prevent its return, in which
case it shall not be a law.
"Every order, resolution or vote to which the concurrence
of the Senate and House of Representatives may be necessary
(except on a question of adjournment) shall be presented to
the President of the United States; and before the same shall
take effqct, shall be approved by him, or being disapproved by
him, shall be repassed by two-thirds of the Senate and House
of Representatives, according to the rules and limitations
prescribed in the case of a bill."
The Revised Statutes provide that "whenever a bill, order,
resolution or vote of the Senate and House of Representatives,

OCTOB.ER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

having been approved and signed by the President, or not
having been returned by him with his objections, becomes a
law or takes effect, it shall forthwith be received by the Secretary of State from the President; and whenever a bill, order,
resolution or vote is returned by the President with his objections, and, on being reconsidered, is agreed to be passed, and
is approved by two-thirds of both houses of Congress, and
thereby becomes a law or takes effect, it shall be received by
the Secretary of State from the President of the Senate -or
Speaker of the House of Representatives in whichsoever house
it shall last have been so approved, and he shall carefully preserve the originals." Sec. 20t.
The original enrolled act in question, designated on its
face "H. R. 9416," was received at the Department of State
October 1, 1890, and, when so received, was attested by the
signatures of Thomas B. Reed, Speaker of the House of Representatives, and Levi P. Morton, Vice-President of the United
States and President of the Senate, and had thereon these endorsements:
" Approved October 1st, 1890.

BENJ.

HARRIsoN."

"I certify that this act originated in the House of Representatives.
"EDw. McPHERsON, iQerk."
It is made the duty of the Secretary of State to furnish to
the Congressional Printer "a correct copy of every act and
joint- resolution, as soon as possible after its approval by the
President, or after it has become a law in accordalice with the
Constitution without such approval." That duty was performed by the Secretary of State with respect to the act in
question, and the act appears in the volume of statutes published and distributed under the authority of the United States.
Rev. Stat. §§ 210, 3803, 3805, 3807, 3808.
The contention of the appellants is, that this enrolled act,
in the. custody of the Secretary of State, and appearing, upon
its face, to have become a law in the mode prescribed by the
Constitution, is to be deemed an absolute nullity, in all its
parts, becahse-such is the allegation - it is shown by the

FIELD v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

Congressional record of proceedings, reports of committees of
each house, reports of committees of conference, and other
papers printed by authority of Congress, and having reference to house bill 9416, that a section of the bill, as it finally
passed, was not in the bill authenticated by the signatures of
the presiding officers of the respective houses of Congress, and
approved by the President. The section alleged to have been
omitted was as follows;
"SEC. 30. That on all original and unbroken factory pack-

ages of smoking and manufactured tobacco and snuff, held by
manufacturers or dealers at the time the reduction herein provided for shall go into effect, up 6 n which the tax has been
paid, there shall be allowed'a drawback or rebate of the full
amount of the reduction, but the same shall not apply in any
case where the claim has not been presented within sixty days
following the date of reduction; and such- rebate to manufacturers may be paid in stamps at .the reduced rate; and no
claim shall be allowed or drawback paid' for a less amount
than five dollars. It shall be the duty of the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue, with, the approval of the Se6retary of
the Treasury, to adopt such rules and regulations and to "prescribe and furnish such blank and forms as may be necessary
to carry this section into effect. For the payment of the rebates provided for in this section there is hereby appropriated
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated."
The argument, in behalf of the 'appellants, is, that a bill,
signed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and by
the President of the Senate, presented to and approved by the
President of the United States, and delivered by the latter to
the Secretary of State, as an act passed by Congress, does not
become a law of the Unitdd States if it had not in fact been
passed by Congress. In view of the express requirements of
the Constitution the correctness. of tHis general principle cannot be doubted. There is noauthority in the presiding officers
of the House of Representatives and the Senate to attest by
their signatures, nor in the President to approve, nor in the
Secretary of State to receive and cause to -be published, as a
legislative act, any. bill not passed by Congress.

OCTOBER TERM, 1801.
Opinion of the Court.

Pnt this concession of the correctness of the general principle for which the, appellants contend does not determine the
precise question before the court; for it*remains to inquire as
to the nature of the evidence upon which a court may act
when the issue is made as to whether a bill, originating in the
House of Representatives or the Senate, and asserted to have
become a law, was or was not passed by Congress. This question is now presented for the first time in this court. It has
received, as its importance required that it should receive, the
most deliberate consideration. We recognize, on one hand,
the duty of this court, from the performance of which it may
not shrink, to give full effect to the ptovisions of the Constitution relating to the enactment of laws that are to operate
wherever the authority and jurisdiction of the United States
extend. On the other hand, we cannot be unmindful of the
consequences that must result if this court should feel obliged,
infidelity to the Constitution, to declare that an enrolled bill,
on whic" depend public and private interests of vast magnitude, and which has been authenticated by the signatures of
the presidil., officers of the two houses of Congress, and by
the approval of the President, and been deposited in the public
archives, as an act of Congress, was not in fact passed by the
House of Representatives and the Senate, and therefore did
not become a law.
The clause of the Constitution upon which the appellants
rest their contention that the act in question was never passed
by Congress is the one declaring that "each house shall keep
a journal of its proceedings, and from time to time publish the
same,, except such parts as may in their judgment require
secrecy; and the yeas and nays of the members of either
house on any question shall, at the desire of one-fifth of those
present, be entered on the journal." Art. 1, sec. 5. It was
assumed in argument that the object of this clause was to
make the journal the best, if not conclusive, evidence upon the
issue as to whether a bill was, in fact, passed by the two
houses of Congress. But the words used do not require such
interpretation. On the contrary, as Mr. Justice Story has
vell said, "the object of the whole clause is to insure publicity

FIELD v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

to the proceedings of the legislature, and a correspondent
responsibility of the members to their respective constituents.
And it is founded in sound policy and deep political foresight.
Intrigue and cabal are thus deprived of some of their main
resources, by plotting and devising measures in secrecy. The
public mind is enlightened by an attentive examination of the
public measures; patriotism, and integrity, and wisdom obtain
their due reward; and votes are ascertained, not by vague
conjecture, but by positive facts.

.

.

.

So long as known

and open responsibility is valuable as a check or an incentive
among the representatives of a free people, so long a journal
of their proceedings and their votes, published in the face of
the world, will continue to enjoy public favor and be demanded
by public opinion." 1 Story, Constitution, §§ 840, 841.
In regard to certain matters, the Constitution expressly requires that they shall be entered on the journal. To what
extent the validity of legislative action may be affected by
the failure to have those matters entered on the journal, we
need not inquire. No such question is presented for determination. But it is clear that, in respect to the particular mode
in which, or with what fulness, shall be kept the proceedings
of either house relating to matters not expressly required to
be entered on the journals; whether bills, orders, resolutions,
reports and amendments shall be entered at large on the journal, or only referred to and designated by their titles or by
numbers; these and like matters were left to the discretion of
the respective houses of Congress. Nor does any clause of
that instrument, either expressly or by necessary implication,
prescribe the mode in which the fact of the original passage
of a bill by the House of Representatives and the Senate shall
be authenticated, or preclude Congress from adopting any
mode to that end which its wisdom suggests. Although the
Constitution does not expressly require bills that have passed
Congress to be attested by the signatures of the presiding officers of the two houses, usage, the orderly conduct of legislative proceedings and the rules under which the two bodies
have acted since the organization of the government, require
that mode of authentication.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The signing by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and by the President of the Senate, in open session, of
an enrolled bill, is an official attestation by the two houses of
such bill as one that has passed Congress. It is a declaration
by the two houses, through their presiding officers, to the
President, that a bill, thus attested, has received, in due form,
the sanction of the legislative branch ofthe government, and
that, it is delivered to him in obedience to the constitutional
requirement that all bills which pass Congress shall be presented to him. And when a bill, thus attested, receives his
approval, and is deposited in the public archives, its authentication as a bill that has passed Congress should be deemed
complete and unimpeachable. As the President has no authority to approve a bill not passed by Congress, an enrolled
act in the custody of the Secretary of State, and having the
official attestations of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, of the President of the Senate, and of'the President of
the United States, carries, on'its face, a solemn assurance by
the legislative and executive departments of the government,
charged, respectively, with the duty of enacting and executing
the laws, that it was passed by Congress. The respect due to
coequal and independent departments requires the judicial department to act upon that assurance, and to accept, as having
.passed Congress, all bills authenticated in the manner stated:
leaving the courts to determine, when the question properly
arises, whether the act, so authenticated, is in conformity with
the Constitution.
It is admitted that an enrolled- act, thus authenticated, is
sufficient evidence of itself - nothing to the contrary appearing upon its face -that it passed Congress. But the contention is,-that it cannot be regarded as a law of the United States
if the journal of either house fails to show that it passed in
the precise form in which it was signed by the presiding officers of the two houses, and approved by the President. It is
said that, under any other view, it becomes possible for the
Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of
the Senate to impose upon the people as a law a bill that was
never passed by Congress. But this possibility is too remote

FIELD v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

to be seriously considered in the present inquiry. It suggests
a deliberate conspiracy to which the presiding officers, the
committees on enrolled bills and the clerks of the two houses

must necessarily be parties, all acting with a common purpose
to defeat an expression of the popular will in the mode prescribed by the Constitution. Judicial action based upon such
a suggestion is forbidden by the respect due to a coordinate
branch of the government. The evils that may result from
the recognition of the principle that an enrolled act, in the
custody of the Secretary of State, attested by the signatures
of the presiding officers of the two houses of Congress, and
the approval of the President, is conclusive dvidence that it
was passed by Congress, according to the forms of the Constitution, would be far less than those that would certainly result
from a rule making the validity of Congressional enactments
depend upon the manner in which the journals of the respective houses are kept by the subordinate officers charged with
the duty of keeping them.
The views we have expressed are supported by numerous
adjudications in this country, to some of which it is well to
refer. In Pango;-nm v. Young, 32 N. J. law (3 Yroom) 29,
37, the question arose as to the relative value, as evidence, of
the passage of a bill, of the journals of the respective houses
of the legislature and the enrolled act authenticated by the
signatures of the speakers of the two houses and by the
approval of the governor. The bill there in question, it was
alleged, originated in the house and was amended in .the
Senate, but, as presented to and approved by the governor,
did not contain all the amendments made in the Senate. Referring to the provision in the constitution of New Jersey,
requiring each house of the legislature to keep a journal of its
proceedings -which provision is in almost the same-words a's
the above clause quoted from the Federal Constitution -- the
court, speaking by-0hief Justice Beasley, said that iftwas
impossible for the mind not-to incline to the opinion. that the
framers of the Constitution, in exacting the keeping of the
journals, did not design to create records that were to be
the ultimate and conclusive evidence" of the conformity of
VOL. Cxm--43

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

legislative action to the constitutional provisions relating to
the enactment of laws. In the nature of things, it was observed, these journals must have been constructed out of loose
and hasty memoranda made in the pressure of business and
amid the distractions of a numerous assembly. The Chief
Justice said: "Can any one deny that, if the laws of the State
are to be tested by a comparison with these journals, so imperfeet, so unauthenticated, that the stability of all written law
will be shaken to its very foundation? Certainly no person can
venture to say that many of our statutes, perhaps some of the
oldest and most important, those which affect large classes of
persons or on which great interests depend, will not be found
defective, even in constitutional particulars, if judged by this
criterion. . . . In addition to these considbrations, in judging of consequences, we are to remember the danger under
the prevalence of such a doctrine to be apprehended from the
intentional corruption of evidences of this character. It is
scarcely too much to say that the legal existence of almost
every legislative act would be at the mercy of all persons
having access to these journals; for it is obvious that any law
can be invalidated by the interpolation of a few lines or the
obliteration of one name and the substitution of another in its
stead. I cannot consent toexpose the state legislation to the
hazards of such probable error or facile fraud. The doctrine
contended for on the part of the evidence has no foundation,
in my estimation, on any considerations of public policy."
The conclusion was, that upon grounds of public policy, as
well as upon the ancient and well settled rales of law, a copy
of a bill bearing the signatures of the presiding officers of the
two houses of the legislature and the approval of the governor, and found in the custody of the Secretary of State, was
conclusive proof of the enactment and contents of a statute,
and could not be contradicted by the legislative journals or in
any other mode. These principles were affirmed by the New
Jersey Court of Errors and Appeals in Freekolders qf Passaic
v. Stevenson, 46 N. J. Law (17 Vroom) 173, 184, and in Standard Underground Co. v. Attorney General, 46 N. J. Eq. (1
Dickinson) 270, 276.

FIELD v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

In Sherman v. Story, 30 California, 253, 275, the whole subject was carefully considered. The court, speaking through
Mr. Justice Sawyer, said: "Better, far better, that a provision should occasionally find its way into the statute through
mistake, or even fraud, than that every act, state and national, should at any and all times be liable to be put in issue
and impeached by the journals, loose, papers of the legislature
and parol evidence. Such a state of uncertainty in the statute
laws of the land would lead to mischiefs absolutely intolerable. . .
The result of the auth6rities in England and in
the other States clearly is, that, at common law, whenever a
general statute is fuisrecited, or its existence denied, the
question is to be tried and determined by the court as a question of law -that is to say, the court is bound to take notice
of it, and inform itself the best way it can; that there is no
plea by which its existence can be put in issue and tried as a
question of fact; that if the enrollment of the statute is in
existence, the enrollment itself is the record, which is conclusive as to what the statute is, and cannot be impeach~d, destroyed or weakened by the journals of Parliament or any
other less authentic or less satisfactory memorials; and that
there has been no departure from the principles of the common law in this respect in the United States, except in instances where a departure has been grounded on, or taken -in
pursuance of, some express constitutional or statutory provision requiring some relaxation of the rule, in order that full
effect might be given to such provisions; and in such instances
the rule has been relaxed by judges with great caution and
hesitation, and the departurd has never been extended beyQnd
an inspection of the journals of both branches of- the legislature." The provisions of the California constitution, in'force
when the above case was decided, relating to the journals of
legislative proceedings, were substantially like the clause upon
that subject in the Constitution of the United States. The
doctrines of the above case were reaffirmed in People v. Burt,
43 California, 560. But it should be observed that at a subsequent date a new constitution was adopted in California,
under which the journals have been examined to impeach an

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

enrolled bill. County of San Xateov. Southern Paoifh Railroad Co., 8 Sawyer, 238, 294.
A case very much in point is x'opcrte Wren, 63 Mississippi,
512, 527, 532. The validity of a certain act was there questioned on the ground that, although signed by the presiding
officers of the two houses of the legislature, and approved by
the governor, it was not law, because it appeardd from the
journals of those bodies, kept in pursuance of the constitution,
that the original bill, having passed the house, was sent to the
Senate, which passed it with numerous amendments, in all of
which the house concurred; but the bill, as approved by the
governor, did not contain certain amendments which bore
directly upon the issues in the case before the court. The
court, in a vigorous opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Campbell, held that the enrolled act, signed by the President of the
Senate, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives and
the, governor is the sole exposition of 'its contents, and the
conclusive evidence of its existence according to its purport,
and that it is not allowable to look further to discover the
history of the act or ascertain its provisions. After a careful
analysis of the adjudged cases the court said: "Every other
view sordi'a~testhe legislature and disregards that coequal
position in our system of the three departments of government. If the validity of every act published as law is to be
tested by examining its history, as shown by the journals of
the two houses of the legislature, there will be an amount of
litigation, difficulty and painful uncertainty appalling in its
contemplation, and multiplying a hundredfold the alleged
uncertainty of the law. Every suit before every court, where
the validity of a statute may be called in question as affecting
the right of a litigant, will be in the nature of an appeal or
writ of 6rror or bill of review for errors apparent on the face
of the legislative records, and the journals must be explored
to determine if some contradiction does not exist between the
journals and the bill signed by the presiding officers of the
two-ho-fses. "Whatis the law to be declared by the court ? It
must inform itself as best it can what is the law. If it may
go beyond the enrolled and signed bill and try its validity by

FIELD v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

the record contained in the journals, it must perform this task
as often as called on, and every court must do it. A justice
of the peace must do it, for he has as much right, and is as
much bound to preserve the constitution and declare and
apply the law as any other court, and we will have the spectacle of examination of journals by justices of the peace, and
statutes declared to be not law as the result of their journalistic history, and the Circuit and Chancery Courts will be constantly engaged in like manner, and this court, on appeal,
have often to try the correctness of the determination of the
court below; as to the conclusion to be drawn from the legislative journals on the inquiry as to the validity of the statutes
thus tested.

.

.

.

Let the courts accept as statutes, duly

enacted, such bills as are delivered by the legislature as their
acts authenticated assuch in the prescribed mode."
In T1eeks v. Smith, 81 Mlaine, 538, 547 it was said: "Legislative journals are made amid the confusion of a despatch of
business, and, therefore, much more likely to contain- errors
than the certificates of the presiding officers are to be untrue.
Moreover public policy requires that the enrolled statutes of
our State, fair upon their faces, should not be put in question
after the public have- given faith to their validity. No man
should be required to hunt through the journals of a.legislature to determine whether a statute, properly certified by the
speaker of the house and the president -of the senate and
approved by the. governor, is a statute or not. The enrolled
act,- if a public law, and the original, if a private act, have
always been held in England: to be records of the highest
order, and, if they carry no 'death wounds' in themselves, to
be absolute verity, and of themselves conclusive."
To the same general effect are Brodnaxe v. Comnynissioner',
64 Nor. Car. 244, 248; State of .Yevada v. Swift, 10 Nevadh,
176 ; Evans v. Browne, 30 Indiana, 514 ; Edgar v. RandolPh
County Oom'rs, 70 Indiana, 331, 338; Paei Railroadv. The
Goveln or, 23 Missouri, 353, 362 et seq. ; Louisiana L-ottery
Co. v. Rihoux, 23 La. Ann. 743. There are cases in other
state courts which proceed upon opposite grounds from .those
we have indicated as proper. But it will be found, upon

OCTOBER TERI,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

examination, that many of them rested upon constitutional or
statutory provisions of a peculiar character, which, expressly,
or by necessary implication, required or authorized the court
to go behind the enrolled act when the question was, whether
the act, as authenticated and deposited in the proper office,
was duly passed by the legislature. This is particularly the
case in reference to the decisions in Illinois. Spangler v.
, Jacoby, 14 Illinois, 297; Turley v. County of Logan, 17 Illinois, 151; Prescott v. Canal Trustees, 19 Illinois, 324; Supervisors v. People, 25 .Illinois, 181; Ryan v. Lynch, 68 Illinois,
160; People v. Barnes, 35 Illinois, 121. In the last-named
case it was said: "Were it not for the somewhat peculiar provision of out- Constitution, which requires that all bills before
they can become laws shall be read three several times in each
house, and shall be passed by a vote of a majority of all the
members-elect, a bill thus signed and approved would be conclusive of its validity and binding force as a law.
According to the theory of our legislation, when a bill has
become a law, there must be record evidence of every material
requirement, from its introduction until it becomes a law.
And this evidence is found upon the journals of the two
houses." But the court added: "We are not, however, prepared to say that a different rule might not have subserved
,the public interest equally well, leaving the legislature and
the executive to guard the public interest in this regard, or to
become responsible for its neglect."
The case of Gardner v. The Collector, 6 Wall. 499, 511,
was relied on in argument as supporting the contention of the
appellants.
The question there was as to the time when an act of Congress took effect; the doubt, upon that point, arising from the
fact that the month and day, but not the year, of the approval
of the act by the President appeared upon the enrolled act in
the custody. of the Department of State. This omission, it
was held, could be supplied in support of the act from the legislative journals. It was said by the court: "We are of opinion, therefore, on principle as well as authority, that whenever
a question arises in a court of law of the existence of a statute,

FIELD v. CLARK.
Opinion of the C6urt.

or of the time when a statute took effect, or of the precise
terms of a statute, the judges who are called 'upon to decide
it have a right to resort to any source of information which in
its nature is capable of conveying to the judicial mind a clear
and satisfactory answer to such question; always seeking
first for that which in its nature is most appropriate, unless
the positive law has enacted a different rule." There was no
question in that case as to the existence or terms of a statute,
and the point in judgment was that the time when an admitted
statute took effect, not appearing from the enrolled act, could
be shown by the legislative journals. It is scarcely necessary
to say that that case does not meet the question here presented.
Nor do the cases of South Ottawa v. Perkins, 94 U. S.
260; 11alnut v. Wade, 103 U. S. 683; and Post v. SupersoPs, 105 U. S. 667, proceed upon any ground inconsistent with
the views we have expressed. In each of those cases it was
held that the question whether a seeming act of the legislature became a law in accordance with the Constitution, was a
judicial one, to be decided by the courts and judges, and not
a question of fact to be tried by a jury; and without considering the question on principle, this court held, in deference to
the decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois, interpreting
the constitution of that State, that it was competent for the
court, in determining the validity of an enrolled act, to consult the legislative journals.
Some reliance was also placed by appellants upon section
895 of the Revised Statutes, providing that "extracts from the
journals of the Senate, or of the House of Representatives, and
of the Executive Journal of the Senate when the injunction of
secrecy is removed, certified by the secretary of the Senate or
by the clerk of the House of Representatives, shall be admitted
as evidence in the courts of the United States, and shall have
the same force and effect as the originals would have if produced and authenticated in court." But referring now only
to matters which the Constitution does not require to be
entered on the journals, it is clear that this is not a statutory
declaration that the journals are the highest evidence of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

facts stated in them, or complete evidence of all that occurs
in the progress of business in the respective houses; much less
that the authentication of an enrolled bill, by the official signatures of the presiding officers of the two houses and of-'the
President, as an act which has passed Congress, and been approved by the President, may'be overcome by what the journal of either house shows or fails to show.
We are of opinion, for the reasofis stated, that it is not com.petent for the appellants'to show, from the journals of either
house,,from the reports of committees or from other documents
printed by authority of Congress, that the enrolled bill designated.H. SR. 9416, as finally passed, contained a section that
does not appear in the enrolled act in the custody of the State
Department.
Second. The third section of the act of October 1st, 1890, C.
124, § 3, is in these words:
"SEc. 3. That with a view to secure reciprocal trade with

countries producing the followihg articles, and for this purpose,
on and after the first day of January, eighteen hundred and
ninety-two, whenever, and so-often as the President shall be
satisfied that the government of any country producing and
exporting sugars, molasses, coffee, tea and hideq, raw and uncured, or any of uch articles, imposes duties or other exactions upon the agricultural or other products of the United
States, which in viev of the free introduction of such sugar,
molasses, coffee, tea and hides into the United States he may
deem to be reciprocally unequal and unreasonable, he shall
hae the power and it shall be his duty to suspend, by proclamation to that effect, the provisions of this act relating to the
free introduction of such sugar, molasses, coffee, tea and hides,
the production of such country, for such time as he shall deem
just, and iii such case and during such suspension duties shall
be levied, collected and paid upon sugar, molasses, coffee, tea
and hides, the .product of or exported from such designated
country as follows, namely:
"All sugars not above number thirteen Dutch standard in
colorshall pay duty on their polariscopic tests as follows,
namely:.

FIELD v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

"All sugars not above number thirteen Dutch standard in
color, all tank bottoms, sirups of cane juice or of beet juice,
melada, concentrated melada, concrete and concentrated
molasses, testing by the polariscope not above seventy-five
degrees, seven-tenths of one cent per pound; and for every
additional degree or fraction of a degree shown by the polariscopic test, two-hundredths of one cent per pound additional.
"All sugars above number thirteen Dutch standard in color
shall be classified by the Dutch standard of color, and pay
duty as follows, namely: All sugar above number thirteen
and not above number sixteen Dutchl standard of color, one
and three-eighths cents per pound.
"All sugar above number sixteen and not above number
twenty Dutch standard of color, one and five-eighths cents
per pound.
"All sugars above number twenty Dutch standard of color,
two cents per pound.
"Molasses testing above fifty-six degrees, four cents per
gallon.
"Sugar drainings and sugar sweepings shall be subject to
duty either as molasses or sugar, as the case may be, according to polariscopic test.
"On coffee, three cents per pound.
"On tea, ten cents per pound.
"Hides, raw or uncured, whether dry, salted or pickled,
Angora goatskins, raw, without the wool, unmanufactured,
asses' skins, raw or unmanufactured, and skins, except sheepskins, with the wool on, one and one-half cents per pound."
26 Stat. 567, 612.
The plaintiffs in error contend that this section, so far as it
authorizes the President to suspend the provisions of the act
relating to the free introduction of sugar, molasses, coffee, tea,
and hides, is unconstitutional, as delegating to him both legislative and treaty-making powers, and, being an essential part
of the system established by Congress, the entire act must be
declared null and void. On behalf of the United States it is
insisted that legislation of this character is sustained by an
early decision of this court and by the practice of the govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ment for nearly a century, and that, even if the third section
were unconstitutional, the remaining parts of the act would
stand.
The decision referred to is The Brig Aurora, 7 Oranch, 382,
388. What was that case?. The non-intercourse act of March
1, 1809, c. 24, sees. 4, 11, forbidding the importation, after
May 20, 1809, of goods, wares or merchandise from any
port or place in Great Britain or France, provided that "the
President of the United States be, and he hereby is, authorized, in case either France or Great Britain shall so revoke or
modify her edicts as that they shall cease to violate the neutral commerce of the United States, to declare the same by
proclamation;" after which the trade suspended by that act
and the act laying an embargo could "be renewed with the
nation so doing.:' 2 Stat. 528. The act of 1809 expired on
the 1st of May, 1810, on which day Congress passed another
act c. 39, § 4, declaring that in case either Great Britain or
France, before a named day, so revoked or-modified her edicts
"as that they shall cease to violate the neutral commerce of
the United States, which fact the President of the United
States shall declare by proclamation, and if the other nation
shall not " within a given time revoke or modify her edicts in
like manner, then certain sections of the act of 1809 "shall
from and after the expiration of three months from the date
of the proclamation aforesaid, be revived and have full force
and effect, so far as relates to the dominions, colonies and
dependencies, and to the articles the growth, produce or manufacture of the dominions, colonies and dependencies of the
nation thus refusing or neglecting to revoke or medify her
edicts in the manner aforesaid. And the restrictions imposed
by this act shall, from the date of guch proclamation, cease
and be discontinued in relation to the nation revoking or
modifying her decrees in the manner aforesaid." 2 Stat. 605,
606. On the 2d of November, 1810, President Madison issued
his proclamation declaring that France had so revoked or
modified her edicts as that they ceased to violate the neutral
commerce of the United States. In the argument of that
case it was contended by Mr. Joseph R. Ingersoll that Con-

FIELD v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

gress could not transfer legislative power to the President, and
that to make the revival of a law depend upon'the President's
proclamation was to give that proclamation the force of a
law. To this it was replied 'that the legislature did not transfer any power of legislation to the President; that they only
prescribed the evidence which should be admitted of a fact,
upon which the law should go into effect. Mr. Justice Johnson, speaking for the whole court, said: "We can see no
sufficient reason why the legislature should not exercise its
discretion in reviving the act of March 1, 1809, either expressly or conditionally, as their judgment should direct. The
19th section of that act, declaring that it should continue in
force to a certain time, and no longer, could not restrict their
power of extending its operation without limitation upon the
occurrence of any subsequent combination of events." This
certainly is a decision that it was competent for Congress to
make the revival of an act depend upon the proclamation of
the President, showing the ascertainment by him of the fact
that the edicts of certain nations had been so revoked or modifled that they did not violate the neutral commerce of the
United States. The same principle would apply in the case
of the suspension of an act upon a contingency to be ascertained by the President, and made known by his proclamation.
To what extent do precedents in legislation sustain the validity of the section under consideration, so far as it makes the
suspension of certain provisions and the going into operation
of other provisiong of an act of Congress depend upon the
action of the President based upon the occurrence of subsequent events, or the ascertainment by him of certain facts, to
be made known by his proclamation.? If we find that Congress has frequently, from the organization of the government
to the present time, conferred upon the President powers, with
reference to trade and commerce, like those conferred by the
third section of the act of October 1, 1890, that fact is entitled
to great weight in determining the question before us.
During the administration of Washington, Congress, by an
act approved June 4, 1794, c. 41, authorized the President,
when Congress was not in session, and fon a prescribed period,

681: 1

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

"whenever, in his opinion, the public safety shall so require,
to lay an embargo on all ships and vessels in the ports of the
United States, or upon the ships and vessels of the United
States, or the ships and vessels of any foreign nation, under
such regulations as the circumstances may require, and to
continue or revoke the same, whenever he shall think proper."
1 Stat. 372.
Congress passed, and President Adams approved, the act of
June 13, 1798, c. 53, § 5, suspending commercial intercourse
between the United States and France and its dependencies,
rind
providing that if the government of France, and all persons acting by or under its authority, before the then next
session of Congress, "shall clearly disavow, and shall be found
to refrain from the aggressions, depredations and hostilities
which have been and are by them encouraged and maintained
against the vessels and other property of the citizens of the
United States, and against their national rights and sovereignty, in violation of the faith of treaties and the laws of
nations, and shall thereby acknowledge the just claims of the,
United States to be considered as in all respects neutral, and
unconnected in the present European war, if the same shall
be continued, then an thereupon it shall be lawful for the
President of the United States, being well ascertained of the
premises, to remit and discontinue the prohibitions and restraints hereby enacted and declared; and he shall be and is
hereby authorized to.make proclamation thereof accordingly."
1 Stat. 565, 566. A subsequent act, approved, February 9,
1799, c. 2, § 4, further suspending commercial intercourse with
France and its dependencies, contained this section: "That
at any time after the passing of this act, it shall be lawful for
the President of the United States, if he shall leera it expe;
dient and consistent with the interest of the United States,
by his order, to remit and discontinue, for the time being, the
restraints and prohibitions aforesaid, either with respect to the
French Republic, or to any island, port or place b6longing to
the said Republic, with w~hich a commercial intercourse may
safely be renewed; and also to revoke such order, whenever,
in his opinion, the interest of the United States shall require;

FIELD v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

and he shall be, and hereby is, authorized to make proclama-

-

tion thereof accordingly." 1 Stat. 613, 615. Under the latter
act the President issued, June 26, 1799, and May 21, 1800,
proclamations declaring it lawful for vessels departing from
the United States to enter certain ports of San Domingo.
Works of John Adams, vol. 9, pp. 176, 177.
By an act of Congress, approved April 18, 1806, c. 29, it.
was made unlawful to import,. after November 15, 1806, into
the United States from any port or place in Great Britain or
Ireland, or in any of the"colonies or dependencies of Great
Britain, articles of which leather, silk, hemp, flax, tin or brass
was the material of chief value, woollen cloths whose invoice
prices exceeded five shillings sterling per square yard, woollen
hosiery, manufactures of -glass, silver and plated wares, hats,
nails, spikes, ready-made clothing, millinery, beer, ale, porter,
pictures and prints. 2 Stat. 379. . The operation of this act
%wassuspended by the subsequent act of December 19, 1806, c.
1, § 3, until July 1, 1807. But the last act contained this
section: "That the President of the United States -be and he
is hereby authorized further to suspend the operation of the
aforesaid act, if in his judgment the public interest should
require it: Provided, that such suspension- shall not extend
beyond the second Monday in December next." 2 Stat. 411.
Both of these acts received the approval of President Jefferson.
An act of March 3, 1815, c. 77, approved by Piesident Madison, provided that so much of the several acts iniposing duties
on the tonnage of ships and vessels, and on goods, wares and
merchandise imported into the United States, as imposed a
discriminating duty on tonnage between foreign vessels and
vessels of the United States, and between goods imported into
the United States in foreign, vessels and vessels of the United
States, be, repealed,.so far as the same respected the produce or
manufacture of the nation to which such foreign ships or vessels belonged; such repeal to take effect in favor of any
foreignnation, "whenever the President of the United States
shall be satisfied that the discriminating or countervailing
duties of such foreign iation, so far as they bperate to the
disadvantage of ,the United States," had been abolished.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

3 Stat. 224. Satisfactory proof having been received by President Monroe from the Free City of Bremeii that from and
after the 12th of May, 1815, all discriminating or countervailing duties of the said city, "so far as they operated to the
disadvantage of the United States," had been abolished, he
issued, July 2-1, 1818, his proclamation stating that the acts of
Congress, upon that subject, were repealed, so far as the same
related to the produce and manufacture of that city. Similar
proclamations were issued by him in respect to the produce
and manufactures of Hamburg, Lubec, Norway and the Dukedom of Oldenburg. 3 Stat. App. I, pp. 792, 793, 794, 795.
By an act approved March -3, 1817, c. "39, prohibiting the
importation into the United States, in any foreign vessel, from
and after July 4 of that year, of plaster of Paris, the production of any country, or its dependencies from which the
vessels of the United States were not permitted to bring the
same article, it was provided that the act should continue in
force five years from January 31, 1817, provided "that if'any
foreign nation, or its dependencies, which have now in force
regulations on the subject of the trade in plaster of Paris, prohibiting the exportation thereof to certain ports of the United
States, shall discontinue such regulations, the President of the
United States is hereby authorized to declare that fact by his
proclamation, and the restrictions imposed by this act shall,
from the date of such proclamation, cease and be discontinued
in r;elation to the nation or its dependencies, discontinuing such
regulations." 3 Stat. 361. Proclamations'in execution of this
act were issued by President Monroe, relating to our trade
with Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. 3 Stat. App. pp.
791, 792.
By an act concerning discriminating duties of tonnage and
impost, approved January 7, 1824, c. 4, § 4, it was provide'd
that "upon satisfactory evidence being given to the President
of the United States, by the government of any foreign nation,
that no discriminating duties of tonnage or impost are imposed
or levied within the ports of the said nation, upon vessels
wholly belonging to citizens of the United States, or upon
merchandise, the produce or manufacture thereof, imported in

FIELD v. CLARK.
Opinion, of the Court.

the same, the President is hereby authorized to issue his proclamation, declaring that the foreign discriminating duties of
tonnage and impost within the United States are, and shall
be, suspended and discontinued, so far as respects the vessels
of the said nation, and the merchandise of its produce or
manufacture, imported into the United States in the same-;
the said suspension to take effect from the time of such notification being given to the President of the United States, 'and to
continue so long as the reciprocal exemption of vessels belonging to citizens of the United States, and merchandise as aforesaid, thereon laden shall be continued, and no longer." 4
Stat. 3. A similar section 'was embodied in the act of May
24, 1828, c. 111, relating to the same subject, which is substantially preserved in section 4228 of the Revised Statutes. 4
Stat. 308. In execution of these acts, proclamations were
issued by the Presidents of the United States as follows:
Adams, July 1, 1828, 4 Stat. App. 815; Jackson, May 11,
1829, June 3, 1829, -September 18, 1830, April 28, 1835, and
September 1, 1836, 4 Stat. App. 814, 815, 816, 11 Stat. App.
781, 782; Polk, November 4, 1847, 9 Stat. App. 1001; Fillmore, November 1, 1850, 9 Stat. App. 1004; Buchanan, February 25, 1858, 11 Stat. App. 795 ; Lincoln, December 16, 1863,
13 Stat. App. 739; Johnson, December 28, 1866, and January
29, 1867, 14 Stat. App. o818, 819; Grant, June 12, 1869,
November 20, 1869, February 25, 1871, December 19, 1871,
September 4, 1872, and October 30, 1872, 16 8tat. App. 1127,
1130 to 1137, 17 Stat. App. 954, 956, 957' and Hayes, November 30, 1880, 21 Stat. 800.
A subsequent statute of May 31i 1830, c. 219, repealed all
acts and parts of acts which imposed duties upon the tonnage
of ships and vessels of foreign nations, provided the President
of the United States should be satisfied that the discriminating
or countervailing duties of such foreign nations, "so far as
they operate to the disadvantage of the United States," bad
been abolished. 4 Stat. 425. This provision is preserved in
section 4219 of the Revised Statutes.
Pursuant to the act of Congress of August 5, 1854, c. 269, § 2,
carrying into effect the treaty between the United States and

-688

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Great Britain of June 5, 1854-, President Pierce issued his proclamation, December 12, 1855, declaring that grain, flour, breadstuffs of all kinds, and numerous other specified articles, should
be admitted free of duty from Newfoundland, he having
received satisfactory evidence that that province had consent4d, "in a due and proper manner," to have the provisions
of the above treaty extended to it, and to allow the United
States the full benefits of all its stipulations, so far as they
were applicable to Newfoundland. 10 Stat. 587; 11 Stat.
790.
•By an act of Congress, approved March 6, 1866, c. 12, the
importation of neat cattle and the hides of neat cattle from
any foreign country into the United States was prohibited, the
operation of the act, however, to be suspended as to any
foreign country or countries, or any parts of such country
or countries, whenever the Secretary of the Treasury should
officially determine, and give public notice thereof, that such
importation would not tend to the introduction or spread
of contagious or infectious diseases among the cattle of the
United States. The same act provided that "the President of
the United States, whenever in his judgment the importation
of neat cattle and the hides of neat cattle may be made without danger of the introduction or"spread of contagious or
infectious disease among the cattle of the United States, may,
by prbclamation, declare the provisions of this act to be
inoperative, and the same shall' be afterwards inoperative and
of no effect from and after thirty days from the date of said
proclamation." 14 Stat. 3. These provisions constituted sections 2493aand 2494 of the Revised Statutes until the passage
of the ict of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 489, c. 121, § 6. And,
by the tariff act of 1890, the importation of neat cattle and
the hides of neat cattle from foreign countries was prohibited;
but authority is given to the Secretary of the Treasury to suspend the operation of. the act as to any country, whehever he
determines that such importation will not lead to the introduction or spread of coritagiofis or infectious diseases among the
cattle of the United States. 26 Stat, 616, c. 1244, § 20.
-In execution of gec.tion 4228 of the Revised Statutes, Presi-

FIELD v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

dent Arthur issued a proclamation declaring that on and after
,the first day of March, 1881, so long as the products of, and
articles proceeding from the United States, imported into the
Islands of Cuba and Porto Rico, should be exempt from discriminating customs duties, any such duties on the products of,
and articles proceeding from Cuba and Porto Rico under the
Spanish flag, should be suspended, and discontinued. 23 Stat.
835. President Cleveland, by proclamation of October 13,
1886, revoked this suspension upon the ground that higher
and discriminatin'g duties continued to be imposed and levied
in the ports named upon certain produce, manufactures or
merchandise imported into them from the United States and
from foreign countries, in vessels of the United States, than
were imposed and levied on the like produce, manufactures or
merchandise carried to those ports in Spanish vessels. 24
Stat. 1028.
By the 14th section of the act of June :26, 1884, c. 121,
removing certain burdens on the American merchant marine,
and encouraging the American foreign carrying trade, certain
tonnage duties were imposed upon vessels entering the United
States from any foreign port or place in North America, Central America, the West India Islands, Bahama Islands, Bermuda Islands, Sandwich Islands or Newfoundland; and the
President was authorized to suspend the collection of so much
of those duties, on \vessels entering from certain ports, as
might be in excess of the tonnage and lighthouse dues, or
other equivalent tax or taxes, imposed on American vessels by
the government of the foreign country in which such port was
situated, and should upbu the passage of the act, "and from
time to time thereafter as often as it may become necessary
by reason of changes in the laws of the foreign countries above
mentioned, indicate by proclamation the ports to which such
suspension shall apply, and the rate or rates of tonnage duty.
if any to be collected under such suspension." 23 Stat. 57.
In execution of that act Presidents Arthur and Cleveland
issued proclamations suspending the collection of duties on
goods arriving from certain designated ports. 23 Stat., 841,
842, 844.
VOL. cxLm--44

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

It would seem to be unnecessary to make further reference
to acts of Congress to show that the authority conferred
upon the President by the third section of the act of October
1, 1890, is not an entirelj new feature in the legislation of
Congress, but has the sanction of many precedents in legislation) While some of these precedents are stronger than
I For instance, as to another subject: By the treaty of May 7, 180.
8 Stat. 408, it was provided that "if litigations and disputes should arise
l)etween -subjects of the Sublime Porte and citizens of the United States,
the parties shall not be heard, nor shall judgment be pronounced, unless
the American Dragoman be present . . . and even when they may have
committed some offence, they shall not be arrested and put in prison by the
local authorities, but they shall be tried by their minister or consul, and
punished according to their offence, following in this respect, the usage
observed towards other Franks."
On the 22d June, 1860, an act was passed to carry into effect this and
other treaties of a like character, "giving certain judicial powers to consuls or other functionaries of the United States in those countries, and
for other purposes." 12 Stat. 72, c. 179. Under this act the consuls of the
United States in Egypt exercised judicial powers over citizens of the United
States. Dainese v. Hale, 91 U. S. 13.
On the 23d of MKarch, 1874, an act was passed which provided, 18 Stat.
23, c. 62, "that whenever the President of the United States shall receive
satisfactory information that the Ottoman government or that of Egypt,
has organized other tribunals, on a basis likely to secure to citizens of th
United States; in their dominions, the same impartial justicewhich they now
enjoy there under the judicial functions, exercised by the minister, consuls
and other functionaries of the United States, pursuant to the act of Congress
approved the twenty-second of June, eighteen hundred and sixty .
lie is hereby authorized to suspend the operations of said acts as to the
dominions in which such tribunals may be organized, so far as the jurisdiction of said tribunals may embrace matters now cognizable by the minister,
consuls or other fjnctionaries of the United States in said dominions, and
to notify the government of the Sublime Porte, or that of Egypt, or either
of them, that the United States, during such suspension will as aforesaid
accept for their citizens the jurisdiction of the tribunals aforesaid, over
citizens of the United States, which has heretofore been exercised by the
minister, .consuls or other functionaries of the United States."
This statute was the response made by the United States to a suggestion
coming from the Egyptian government through the Turkish government,
that mixed tribunals should be established in Egypt with jurisdiction of
"disputes in civil and commercial matters between natives and foreigners,
and between foreigners of different nationalities." 2 Foreign Relations,
1873, pp. 1100-1104. The scheme was successful. Codes were adopted;

FIELD -v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

others, in their application to the case before us, they all
show that, in the judgment of the legislative branch of the
government, it is often desirable, if not essential for the protection of the interests of our people, against the unfriendly
or discriminating regulations established by foreign governments, in the interests of their people, to invest the President
with large discretion in matters arising out of the execution
of statutes relating to trade and commerce with other nations.
If the decision in the case of The Brig Aurora had never been
rendered, the practical construction of the Constitution, as
given by so many acts of Congress, and embracing almost the
entire period of our national existence, should not be overrnled, unless upon a conviction that such legislation was
clearly incompatible with the supreme law of the land. Stuart
v. Laird,1 Cranch, 299, 309; 1fartin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat.
304, 351; Cooley v. Port 'Wardens, 12 How. 299, 315; Lithographic Co. v. Sarony, 111 U. S. 53, 57; The Laura,114 U. S.
1
411, 416.
The authority given to-the President by the act of June 4,
1794, to lay an embargo on all ships and vessels in the ports of
the United States, 41whenever, in his opinion, the public safety
shall so require," and under regulations, to be continued or
revoked "whenever he shall think proper;" by the act of
February 9, 1799, to remit and discontinue, for the time
b ,iag, the restraints and prohibitions which Congress had prescribed with respect to commercial intercourse with the French
Republic, "if he sY i deem it expedient and consistent with
the interest of the United States," and "to revoke such order,
whenever, in his opinion, the interest of .the United States
shall require;" by the act of December 19, 1806, to suspend,
for a named time, the operation of the non-importation act of
the same year, "if in his judgment the public interest should
(Codes tgyptiens, Alexandrie, 1875,) the proclamation of suspension contemplated by the act of March 23, 1874, was issued by President Grant
on the 27th of March, f876, 19 Stat. 662; the quota of foreign judges
assigned to the United States was filled by the Khedive upon the nomination of the President; and United States citizens became justiciable by this
mixed tribunal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

require it;" by the act of May 1, 1810, to revive a former act,
as to Great Britain or France; if either country had not, by a
named day, so revoked or modified its edicts as not "to violate
the neutral commerce of the United States;" by the acts of
March 3, 1815, and May 31, 1830, to declare the repeal, as to
any foreign nation, of the several acts imposing duties on the
tonnage of ships abd vessels, and on goods, wares and merchandise imported into the United States, when he should be
"satisfied" that the discriminating duties of such foreign
nations, "so far as they operate to the disadvantage of the
United States," had been abolished; by the act of March 6,
1866, to delare the provisions of the act forbidding the importation into this country of neat cattle and the hides of neat
cattle, to be inoperative, "whenever in his judgment" their
importation "may be made without danger of the introduction or spread of contagious or infectious disease among the
cattle of the United. States;" must be regarded as unwarrated by the Constitution, if the contention of the appellants,
inrespect to the third section of the act of October 1, 1890, be
sustained.
That Congress cannot delegate legislative power to, the
President is a principle universally, recognized as vital to the
integrity and maintenance of the system of government ordained by the Constitution. The act of October 1, 1890, in
the particular under consideration, is not inconsistent with
that principle. It does not, in any real sense, invest the President with the power of legislation. For the purpose of securing reciprocal trade with countries producing and exporting
sugar, molasses, coffee, tea and hides, Congress itself determined that the provisions of the act of October 1, 1890, permitting the free introduction of such articles, should be suspended as to any country producing and exporting them,-that
imposed exactions and duties on the agricultural and other
products. of the United States, which the President deerped,
that is, which he found to be, reciprocally unequal and unreasonable. Congress itself prescribed, in advance, the duties
to be levied, collected and paid, on sugar, molasses, coffee,
tea or hides, produced by or exported from ;uch designated

FIELD v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

country, while the suspension lasted. Nothing involving the
expediency or the just operation of such legislation was left to
the determination of the President. The words, "he may
deem," in the third section, of course,'implied that the President would examine the commercial regulations of other countries producing and exporting sugar, molasses, coffee, tea and
hides, and form a judgment as to whether they were reciprocally equal and reasonable, or the contrary, in their effect
upon American products. But when he ascertained the fact
that duties and exactions, reciprocally uneilual and unreasonable, were imposed upon the agricultural or other products of
the United States by a country producing and exporting
sugar, molasses, coffee, tea or hides, it became his duty to
issue a proclamation declaring the suspension, as to that
country, which Congress had determined should occur. He
had no discretion in the premises except in respect to the
duration of the suspension so ordered. But that related only
to the enforcement of the policy established by Congress. As
the suspension was absolutely required when the President
ascertained the existence of a particular fact, it cannot be said
that in ascertaining that fact and in issuing his proclamation,
in obedience to the legislative will, he exercised the- function
of making laws. Legislative power was exercised when Congress declared that the suspension should take effect upon a
named contingency. What the President was required to do
was simply in execution of the act of Congress. It was not
the making of law. He was the mere agent of the law-making department to ascertain and declare the event upon which
its expressed will was to take effect. It was a part of the law
itself as it left the hands of Congress that the provisions, full
and complete in themselves, permitting the free introduction of
sugars, molasses, coffee, tea'and hides, from particular countries, should be suspended, in a given contingency, and that in
case of such suspensions certain duties should be imposed.
"The true distinction," as Judge Ranney speaking for the
Supreme Court of Ohio has well said, "is between the delegation of power to make the law, which necessarily involves a
discretion as to what it shall be, and conferring authority or

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

discretion as, to its execution, to be exercised under and in pursuance of the law.

The first cannot be done; to the latter no

valid objection can be made." Cincinnati, Wilmingtor &c.
Railroadv. Commissioners, 1 Ohio St. 88. In .Moersv. City of
Reading, 21 Penn. St. 188, 202, the language of the court was:
"Half the stitutes on .our books are in the alternative, depending on the discretion of some person or persons to whom is
confided the duty of determining whether the proper occasion
exists for executing them. But- it cannot be said that the
exercise of such discretion is the making of the law." So, in
Locke's Appeal, 72 Penn. St. 491, 498: "To assert that a
law is less! than a law, because it is made to depend on a
future event or act, is to rob the legislature of the power to
act wisely for the public welfare whenever a law is passed
relating to a state of affairs not yet developed, or to things
future and impossible to fully know." The proper distinction
the court said was this : "The legislature cannot delegate its
power to make a law; but it can make .a law to delegate a
power to determine some fact or state of things upon which
the law makes, or intends to make, its own action depend.
To deny this would be to stop the wheels of government.
There are many things upon which wise and useful legislation
must depend which cannot be known to the law-making
power., and,, must, therefore, be a subject of inquiry and determination outside of the halls of legislation."
What has been said. is equally applicable to the objection
that the third section of the act invests .thq President with
treaty-making power.
The court is of opinion that the third section of the act of
October 1, 18,90, is not liable to the objection that it transfers
legislative and treaty-making power to the President. Even
if it were, it would not, by any means, follow that other parts
of the act, those which directly imposed duties upon articles
imported, would be inoperative. But we need not in this connection enter upon the consideration of that question.
Third. The act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, see. 1, par. 231,
"Schedule E - Sugar," provides - that "on and after July
first,. eighteen .hundred and ninety-bne, and until July first,.

FIELD -9. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

nineteen hundred and five, there shall be paid, from any
moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, under the
provisions of section three thousand six hundred and eightynine of thejRevised Statutes, to the producer of .sugar testing
not less than ninety degrees by the polariscope, from beets,
sorghum or sugar-cane grown within the United States, or
from maple sap produced within the Unitbd States, a bounty
of two cents per pound; and upon such sugar testing less than
ninety degrees by the polariscope,' and not less than eighty
degrees, a bounty of one and three-fourths cents per pound,
under such rules and regulations as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the
Treasury, shall prescribe." 26 Stat. 567, 583.
Appellants contend that Congress has no power to appropriate money from the Treasury for the payment of these
bounties, and that the provisions for them have such connection with the system established by the act of 1890 that the
entire act must be held inoperative and void. The question
of constitutional power thus raised depends principally, if not
altogether, upon the scope and effect of that clause of the
Constitution giving Congress power "to lay and collect taxes,
duties, imposts and excises, to pay the debts and provide for
the common defence and general welfare of the United
States." Art. 1, see. 8. It would be difficult to suggest a
question of larger importance, or one the decision of which
would be more far-reaching.

But the argument that the

validity of the entire act depends upon the validity of the
bounty clause is so obviously founded in error that we should
not be justified in giving the question of constitutional power,
here raised, that extended examination which a question of
such gravity would, under some circumstances demand. Even
if the position of the appellants with respect to the power of
Congress to pay these bounties were -sustained, it is clear that
the parts of the act in which they are interested, namely,
those laying duties upon articles inported, would remain in
force. "It is an elementary principle," this court has said,
"that the same statute may be in part constitutional and in
part unconstitutional, and that if the parts are whollv inde-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

pendent of each other, that which is constitutional may stand
while that which is unconstitutional will be rejected." Allen
v. Louisiana, 103 U. S. 80, 83. And in Huntington v.
TVorthen, 120 U. S. 97, 102, Mr. Justice Field, speaking for
the court, said: "It is only when different clauses of an act
are so dependent upon each other that it is evident the legislature would not have enacted one of them without the other
-as when the two things provided are necessary parts of one
system- that the whole act will fall with the invalidity of
one clause. When there is no such gonnection and dependency, the act will stand, though different parts of it are rejected." It cannot be said to be evident that the provisions
imposing duties on imported articles are so connected with or
dependent upon those giving bounties upon the production of
sugars in this country that the former would not have been
adopted except in connection with the latter. Undoubtedly,
the object of the act was not only to raise revenue for the
support of the government, but to so exert the power of laying -and collecting taxes and duties as to encourage domestic
manufactures and industries of different kinds, upon the success of which, the promoters of the. act claimed, materially
depended the national prosperity and the national safety.
But it cannot be assumed, nor can it be made to appear from
the act, that the provisions imposing duties on imported articles would not have been adopted except in connection with
the clause giving bounties on the production of sugar in this
country. These different parts of the act, in respect to their
operation, have no legal connection whatever with each other.
They. are entirely separable in their nature, and, in law, are
wholly independent of each other. One relates to the imposition of duties upon imported articles; the other, to the appropriation of money from the Treasury for bounties on articles
produced in this country. While, in a general sense, both
may be said to be parts of a system, neither the words nor
the general scope of the act justifies the belief that Congress
intended they should operate as a whole, and not separately
for the purpose of accomplishing the objects for which they
were respectively designed. Unless it be impossible to avoid

FIELD v. CLARK.
Concurring Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

it, a general revenue statute should never be declared inoperative in all its parts because a particular part relating to a
distinct subject may be invaiid. A different rule might be
disastrous to the financial operations of the government, and
produce the utmost confusion in the business of the entire
country.
We perceive no error in the judgments below, and each is
Affirmed.
MR. CHIEF Jusdissenting from the ouinion but concurring in

MR. JUSTICE LK'N&R, (with whom concurred
JTICE FULLER,)

the judgments of the court.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and myself concur in the judgment just
announced. But the proposition maintained -in the opinion,
that the third section, known as the reciprocity provision, is
valid and constitutional legislation, does not command our
assent, and we desire to state very briefly the ground of our
dissent from it. We think that this particular provision is
repugnant to the first section of the first article of the Constitution of the United States, which provides that "all legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of
the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House
of Representatives." That no part of this legislative power
can be delegated by Congress to any other department of the
government, executive or judicial, is an axiom in constitutional
law, and is universally recognized as a principle essential to
the integrity and maintenance of the system of government
ordained by the Constitution. The legislative power must
remain in the organ where it is lodged by that instrument.
We think that the section in question does delegate legislative
power to the executive department, and 'also commits to that
department matters belonging to the treaty-making power, in
violation of paragraph two of the second section of article two
of the Constitution. It reads thus:
"§ 3. That with a view to secure reciprocal trade with countries producing the following articles, and for this purpose, on
and after the first day of January, eighteen hundred and ninety-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Concurring Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

two, whenever, and so often as the President shall be satisfied that the government of any country producing, and exporting sugars, molasses, coffee, tea and hides, raw and uncured,
or any of such articles, imposes duties or other exactions upon
the agricultural or other products of the United States, which
in view of the free introduction of such sugar, molasses, coffee,
tea and hides into the United States he may deem to be 'eciproeally unequal and unreasonable,he shall have the power and
it shall be his duty to suspend, by proclamation to that effect,
the provisions of this act relating to the free introduction of
such sugar, molasses, coffee, tea and hides, the production of
such country,for such time as he shall deer just, and in such
case and during such suspension duties shall be levied, collected and paid upon sugar, molasses, coffee, tea and hides,
the product of or exported from such designated country as
follows, namely." 26 Stat. 612.
We do not think that legislation of this character is sustained by any decision of this court, or by precedents in
congressional legislation numerous enough to be properly
considered as the practice of the government. One of the
instances referred to, as legislation analogous to this section,
is that embodied in the acts of Congress of 1809 and 1810
known as the "non-intercourse acts," pronounced by this
court to be valid in the case of The Brig Aurora, 'I Cranch,
383. The act of March 1, 1809, forbidding any importation
after May 20, 1809, from Great Britain or France, provided
that "the President of the United States be, and he hereby is,
authorized, in case either France or Great Britain shall so
revoke or modify her edicts, as that they shall cease to' violate
the neutral commerce of the United States, to declare the
same by proclamation," after which the trade suspended by
that act and the act laying an embargo could be renewed
with the nation so doing- 2 Stat. 528, c. 24, 11. That act
having expired, Congress, on the first of May, 1810, passed an
act, (2 Stat. 605, c. 39, § 4,) which enacted "that in case either
Great Britain or France shall, before the third day of March
next, so revoke or modify her edicts as that they shall cease to
violate the'neutral commerce of the United States, which fact

FIELD v. CLARK.
Concurring Opinion: Lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

the President of the United States shall declare by proclamation, and if the other tation shall not, within three months
thereafter, so revoke or modif r her edicts in like manner," the
restrictions of the embargo act, "shall, from and after the
expiration of three months from the date of the proclamation
aforesaid, be revived and have full force and effect, so far as
relates to

.

.

..

the nation thus refusing or neglecting to

modify her edicts in the manner aforesaid. And the.restrictions imposed by this act shall, from the date of such proclamation, cease and be discontinued in relation to the nation
revoking or modifying her decrees in the manner aforesaid."
These enactments, in our opinion, transferred no legislative
power to the President. The legislation was purely contingent. It provided for an ascertainment by the President of
an event in the future, an event defined in the act and directed
to be evidenced by his proclamation. It 'also prescribed the
consequences which were to follow upon that proclamation,
Such proclamation was wholly.in the nature of an executive
act, a prescribed mode of ascertainment, which involved no
exercise by the President of what belonged to the law-making
power. The supreme will of Congress would have been
enforced whether the event provided for had or had not happened, either in the Continuance of the restrictions, on-the one
hand, or on the other, in their suspension.
But the purpose and effect of the section now under consideration are radically different. It does not, as was provided
in the statutes of 1809 and 1810, entrust the President with
the ascertainment of a fact therein defined upon which the
law is to go into operation. It goes farther than that, and
deputes to the President the power to suspend another section
in the same act whenever "he may deem" the action of any
foreign nation producing and exporting the articles named in
that section to be "reciprocally unequal and unreasonable;"
and it further deputes to him the power to continue that suspension and to impose revenue duties on the articles named
"for such time as he may deem just." This certainly extends
to the executive the exercise of those discretionary powers
which the Constitfution has vested in the law-making depart-

700

OCTOBER, TERi, 1891.
Concurring Opinion: lamar, J., Fuller, C. J.

ment. It unquestionably vests in the President the power to
regulate our cor~merce with all foreign nations which produce
sugar, tea, coffee, molasses, hides or any of such articles; and
to impose revenue duties upon them for a length of time
limited solely by his discretion, whenever he deems the revenue
system or policy of any nation in which those articles are produced reciprocally unequal and- unreasonable, in its operation
upon the products of this country.
These features of this section are, in our opinion, in palpable
violation of the Constitution of the United States, and serve
to distinguish it from the legislative precedents which are
relied upon to sustain it, as the practice of the government.
None of these legislative precedents,- save the one above
referred to, have, as yet, undergone review by this court or
.been sustained by its decision. And if there be any congressional legislation which may be construed as delegating to the
President the power to suspend any law exempting any
importations from duty, or to reimpose revenue duties on
them, upon, his own judgment as to what constitutes in the
revenue policy of other countries a fair and reasonable reciprocity, such legislative precedents canffot avail as authority
against a clear and undoubted principle of the Constitution.
We say revenue policy, because the phrase "agricultural or
other products of the United States" is comprehensive, and
embraces our manufacturing and mining as well as agricultural
products, all of which interests are thus entrusted to the discretion of the President, in the adjustment of trade relations
with other countries, upon a basis of reciprocity.
Whilst, however, we cannot agree to the prop'osition that
this particular section is valid and constitutional, we do not
regard it as such an essential part of the Tariff Act as to invalidate all its other provisions; and we therefore concur in the
judgment of this court affirming the judgments of the court
below in the several cases.

