OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

NEW ORLEANS PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
PARKER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 137. Argued January 4,5,1892.-Decided February 1, 1892.

When several plaintiffs claim under the same title, and the determination of
the cause necessarily involves the validity of that title, and the whole
amount involved exceeds $5000, this court has jurisdiction as to all such
plaintiffs, though the individual claims of none of them exceed $5000:
but where the matters in dispute are separate and distinct, and are joined
in one suit for convenience or economy, the rule is the reverse as to claims
not exceeding .$5000.
A mortgage by a railroad company of its railroad, rights of way, road-bed
and all its real estate then owned or which might be thereafter acquired
appurtenant to or necessary for the operation of the railroad, and all
other property wherever situated in the State, then owned or which might
thereafter be acquired by the company, and which should be appurtenant
to or necessary or used for the operation of its road, and also the tenements, hereditaments and appurtenances thereunto belonging, does not
cover a grant of lands within the State subsequently made by Congress
to the company in aid of the construction of its road.
An appurtenance is that which belongs to or is connected with something
else to which it is subordinate or less worthy, and with which it passes
as an incident; and in strict legal sense land can never be appurtenant to
land.
A grant to a railroad company of public lands, within defined limits, not sold,
reserved or otherwise disposed of when the route of the road becomes
definitely fixed, conveys no title to any particular land until the location,
and until the specific parcels have been selected by the grantee and approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
If a holder of one or more of a series of bonds issued by a railroad company
,and secured by a mortgage in terms like this mortgage has a right to institute proceedings for the foreclosure of the mortgage, (about which no
opinion is expressed,) he is bound to act for all standing in a similar position, and not only to permit other bondholders to intervene, but to see
that their rights are protected'in the final decree.

THE court

stated the case as follows:

This was a.bill in equity to foreclose a mortgage, and a
cross-bill to have the mortgage decreed not to be a lien upon

NEW ORLEANS PACIFIC RAILWAY v. PARKER.

43

Statement of the Case.

the land grant involved in the controversy. The bill was originally filed February 15, 1886, by the plaintiff Parker, "for
himself and for all parties holding bonds and coupons similar
to those herein 5et forth," against the New Orleans, Baton
Rouge and Vicksburg Railroad Company, (hereinafter called
the Baton Rouge Company,) the Union Trdist Company of
New York, the New Orleans Pacific Railway Company, (hereinafter called the Pacific Company,) John F. Dillon and Henry
M. Alexander, trustees in certain land-grant mortgages of the
Pacific Company, and Samuel D. McEnery, then governor of
Louisiana, to foreclose a mortgage given by the Baton RougeCompany, October 1, 1870, upon the property of the company
and upon a land grant claimed to be covered by such mortgage. Plaintiff Parker claimed only the amount of coupons
matured upon two bonds. Subsequently one Hamlin, another
bondholder under the same mortgage, intervened in the cause,
which was tried in the Circuit Court, and two distinct decrees
rendered upon the same day; one in favor of Parker in the
sum of $2400, with interest at five per cent from October 1,
1855, and one in favor of Hamlin for $6000 with like interest.
33 Fed. Rep. 693. The mortgage in question, so far as it is
material to be considered, purported to cover the right of way,
"also all other property, real and personal, of every
kind and description whatsoever and wherever situated in the
State of Louisiana, which is now owned or which shall hereafter be acquired by the said company, and which shall be
appurtenant to or iaecessary or used for the operation of said
main line of railroad or any of said branches," etc. The mortgage, which was made to the Union Trust Company of New
York, provided that the holders'of bonds and coupons should
have the right to institute legal proceedings for its foreclosure.
The company put the bonds, secured by this mortgage, upon
the market, and disposed of a number of them. This mortgage
was by public act and was recorded in several of the parishes
through which the main line and the branches were to run.
By an act of Congress approved March 3, 1871, 16 Stat. 573,
c. 122, to incorporate the Texas Pacific Railroad Company,
certain lands in Louisiana were granted to the Baton Rouge

OOTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Company in aid of its construction of a railroad from New
Orleans to Baton Rouge, thence by way of Alexandria to the
eastern terminus of the Texas Pacific Railroad at Shreveport.
On November 11, 1871, the Baton Rouge Company filed in
the General Land Office-a map designating the general route
of its road from Baton Rouge, by way of Alexandria, to
'Shreveport, and thereupon the withdrawal of the public lands
o
tas line wasodrd.
ordered, in accordance
the provisions
aong
this
codnc with
ihtepoiin
of' the above act of Congress, sees. 12 and 22. -In 1881 the
Baton Rouge Company transferred all its right, title and
interest in these lands to the Pacific Company, and in March,
1885, patents were issued to said company, as assignee of the
Baton Rouge Company, for 679,287 acres of land lying in different parts of the State.
At the time this assignment was made no work either upon
the main line or upon the branches had been done by the
Baton Rouge Company. December 28, 1870, the Baton Rouge
Company executed a second mortgage to the governor of the
State, as trustee, to secure the payment of certain bonds which
were never issued. Such .second mortgage having been subsequently cancelled, on September 4, 1872, one Allen, assuming
to act as president of the Baton Rouge Company, also executed
a mortgage to secure the payment of 12,000 bonds, which, however, appear never to have been issued.
By acts of mortgage dated April 17, 1883, and January 5,
1884, the Pacific Company executed to appellants Dillon and
Alexander a land grant and sinking fund mortgage upon the
lands acquired from the Baton Rouge Company, to secure the
payment of certain bonds, which the, bill averred to be subsequent and subordinate to the mortgage executed by the Baton
Rouge Company to secure the payment of the bonds in suit.
None of the defendants named in the bill appeared except
the Pacific Company and Dillon and Alexander, trustees of
the land grant mortgage of this company. These parties filed
a general demurrer, which was argued and overruled, in September, 1886, and a decree pro confesso was, entered against
the other defendants. Subsequently an answer was filed, alleging in substance that the charter of the Baton Rouge Company

NEW ORLEANS PACIFIC RAILWAY v. PARKER.

45

Counsel for Appellants.

did not authorize a mortgage on the land grant or on future
property; that the mortgage did not embrace the land grant;
that the Baton Rouge Company made no definite location of
its road, nor built any portion of the same; that the Pacific
Company purchased from the Baton Rouge Company, as
alleged in the bill, and thereupon constructed its road; and
that the legal title to the land grant remained in the United
States until patents were issued to this company. October 13,
186, these defendants filed a cross-bill setting forth that the
cross-complainants were endeavoring to sell the lands that had
been patented to them, and were being embarrassed and prevented by reason of the claim set up by Parker in his bill;
that as the mortgage sought to be foreclosed, and the outstanding bonds secured thereby did not mature for several
years, they would continue to be embarrassed for a long time;
that Parker had sued on behalf of himself and of other holders
of bonds issued under the mortgage of 1870, and, as complainants were advised and believed, represented upwards of two
hundred of said bonds, each holder of which might bring ,suit
and involve them in a multiplicity of suits; and that only a
court of equity could afford relief by removing this -mortgage
as a cloud upon the title of the Pacific Company to the lands;
and prayed for a decree adjudging that the mortgage did not
embrace the land grant in question. Parker subsequently filed
a demurrer to this cross-bill. On December 24, 1886, Hamlin
intervened by petition, and was admitted as a co-plaintiff in
the cause. Subsequently the case was heard and separate
decrees rendered in favor of Parker ahd Hamlin for the
amounts of their several claims, adjudging the mortgage to be
a valid lien upon the lands, which were ordered to be sold, and
dismissing the cross-bill. Appellants took an appeal from these
decrees to this court. Parker thereupon moved for a dismissal
of the appeal as to him upon the ground that less than $5000
was involved. The consideration of this motion was postponed
to the merits.
Ar. Wllarm lirt Howe and 21r. John F. Dillon for'appellants. ,Mr.Wfage' Swayne was with them on the brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellee.

-Mr. A. H. Garlandfor appellees (Mr.A. Hi. Leonard was on
the brief as of counsel for appellee :Parker).
I. The equitable jurisdiction of the Federal courts attaches
in Louisiana just as it does in other States, and causes in
equity instituted in Louisiana in such courts must be determined by the rules and principles of equity.
It is the general rule of the common law that future property cannot be mortgaged, but the rule c)f the civil law is different. "Those who bind themselves by any engagement
whatever may, for the security of their performance of the
engagement on their part, appropriate and mortgage not only
the estate they are masters of at the time of contracting, but
likewise all the estate which they shall be afterwards seized
or possessed of." 1 Domat, Cushing's ed. 649, Art. 5. With
reference to the sale or mortgage of future property, equity
has adopted the principles of the civil law. .Mlitchellv. Winslow, 2 Story, 630; Willin v. Morris Canal Co., 3 Green Ch.
(3 N. J. Eq.) 377; Pierce v. Emery, 32 N. I. 484. In Pennock v. Coe, 23 How. 117 this court held that a railroad company, authorized to borrow money and issue their bonds to
enable themselves to finish and stock the- road, may mortgage
not only the then acquired property, but such as may be acquired in future. The law of Louisiana is in accord with the
law of her sister States, and of all civilized countries, with
regard to mortgages of future property by railroad companies.
It is true that Article 3308, Civil Code, declares, "Future property can never be the subject of conventional mortgage," but
in Bell v. Chicago, St. Louis &c. Ro ilroad,34 La. Ann. 785, it
was held that this article applies " only to individuals in their
ordinary transactions. It has no reference to juridical persons," governed in this respect by other laws.
II. What meaning and what effect shall be given to the
words of the mortgage? Are the lands granted by Congress
to the New Orleans, Baton Rouge and Vicksburg Railroad
Company covered by the mortgage given by that company to
secure payment of its first mortgage construction bonds?
The question as to what property is covered by a mortgage

NEW ORLEANS PACIFIO, RAILWAY v. PARKER. 47
Argument for Appellee.

is purely one of construction, and depends entirely upon the
language used and the obvious intention of the parties, to be
gathered therefrom, and the authority under which it was
issued.
Obviously in determining such a question very little assistance
can be had from adjudged cases. Each case must necessarily
be determined by its own peculiar circumstances; but it must be
borne in mind that under the laws of Louisiana in a doubtful
case, the agreement is interpreted against him 'who has
contractec the obligation. Civil Code, Art. 1957, as amended
by Act No. 87 of General Assembly, session of 1871, page
201, Art. 1957, which- declares: "In a doubtful case the
agreement is interpreted against him who has contracted the
obligation."
From the facts and circumstances shown by the record, it
is impossible to avoid the conclusion that when the incorporators applied for a charter, and when the legislature granted
a charter to the railroad company, both the incorporators and
the legislature expected the road and branches to be constructed with moneys derived exclusively from the sale of
the bonds of the company; that the incorporators desired
and intended the legislature should invest the company with
power to mortgage its franchises and all itefuture property,
without exception; that the legislatur.e intended to invest the
company with such power, and, in fine, that the main object
of both the corporators and -the legis]ature was to make the
bonds of the company attractive-to capitalists.
The company intended to mortgage and did mortgage all of
its property within the State of LQuisiana of every nature and
description whatsoever and wherever situated, then owned, or
which might thereafter be acquired, together with all its franchises, rights and privileges. A multitude of words was used exe
industriato convey that intention simply because the draughtsman who framed the act of the legislature incorporating the
company was not skilled in the use of words.
The words used in the mortgage were of course intended to
mean something. In construing a contract some meaning
must be given, when it can properly be. done, .to all words

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument ,for Appellee..

found therein. The mortgagor intended te mortgage all property necessarily used for the cperation of the line; all property
which, though not necessary, was nevertheless used for its
operation; and all property appurtenant to the line or any
of its branches.
The lands were granted by Congress to aid in the construction of the branch line. They were appurtenant to that line,
and could not be diverted from it without fraud. "The words
of a law - and of a contract - are generally to be understood
in their usual signification, without attending so much to the
niceties of grammatical rules as to the generaf and popular
use of the !words." Civ. Code. La. Art. 14. This rule is common to all systems of jurisprudence. The word "appurtenant" is thus defined: Webster- Belonging to; Latin, appertinere; fr6m ad- to- and yertinere- to belong to, to
pertain to. Bouvier- Belonging to, pertaining to. These
definitions undoubtedly -give" the usual signification" of the
word -the sense in which it is generally and popularly used.
When appurtenant- was used by the'legislature of Louisiana in the act of incorporation, and when that word was used
in the mortgage, it was used in its usual, general and popular
signification. In the civil law that word has no technical
meaning. It may have in the common law, but the legislature of Louisiana and the mortgagors, citizens of Louisiana,
authorizing and executing a mortgage in Louisiana to have
effect only in Louisiana, did not use the word "appurtenant"
in any sense in which it may be technical in the common law they used it to express its geereal &igniftcation,in'the "popular use"'of the word. By'the use of the words "appurtenant
to the line" they meant to convey, and did convey, the idea
that all property, real' and personal, of whatever description
and wheresoever situated,-belonging to or pertaining to the
line, was to be subject to the mortgage given to secure the
payment of the bonds.
Bouvier, after giving the technical meaning of "appurtenant" in the common law, says: "The thing appurtenant
must be of an inferior nature to the thing to which it is appurnant; thus a right of common may be appurtenant, as when

NEW ORLEANS PACIFIC RAILWAY v. PARKER. 49
Argument for Appellee.

it is annexed to lands in other lordships." Even in this sense
the lands granted to aid in the construction of a railroad are
appurtenant thereto, the road being the principal thing to
which such lands pertain, to which they belong.
The real difference between the opposing parties in the case at
bar is this. We say the mortgage in question expressly embraces
All property of every kind and description whatsoever and
wheresoever situated, then owned, or which might be acquired
by the New Orleans, Baton Rouge and Vicksburg Railroad
Company, appurtenant to its main line or any of its branches,
and we say further that such mortgage was a mortgage of the
whole road as a whole thing, with all its corporate franchisesand
rights, carrying with them all subsequently acquired property:
Our adversaries say the mortgage covers so far as after
acquired property is concerned only such as is appurtenant to
the oj)eration. of the line. This idea is always in the mind of
our learned opponents. They persistently express it. Nearly
all of the cases cited by them in their brief filed in court a qua
show simply that property not connected with the operation'
of a road is not embraced within the terms of a mortgage
granted on property vsed for opei'ating a road. This and
nothing more was decided in following cases cited on their
brief. TValsh v.Barton, 24 Ohio St. 28; Fa'rners' Zoan &
T,ust Co. v. Commercial Bank, 11 Wisconsin, 215; S. C. 15
'Wisconsin, 424; S. C,, 82 Am. Dec. 689'; Seyrniur v. CanancdaZgua & iViayara Falls Railroad,25 Barb. 284,, Dinsrnore v.
Racine & Jfiss. Railroad,12 Wisconsin, 725; Farmers' Zoan
& Trust Co. v. Cary, 13 Wisconsin, 110. These decisions are
sound, but they decide laothing applicable to the case at bar.
A careful study of all the authorities bearing on, this case
confirms the opinion that the essential question in this -case is
one purely of interpretation and construction. It depends
upon the language used and the intention of the parties, which
muat be.gathered from the het of mortgage and the, circumstances attending its execution.
The language used in the mortgage under consideration and
the circumstances attending its execution show conclusively
that the New Orleans, BatonmIouge and Vicksburg Railroad
voL. cxLm-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
, Opinion of the Court.

Company intended to mortgage and did mortgage all its real
estate then owned or which might thereafter be acquired of
every kind and description whatsoever and wheresoever situated. The mortgage, then, by its terms, covers the lands
granted by Congress to that company " in aid of the construction of the road." Moreover, it is clear that said company by
said mortgage mortgaged its ioad and all branches as a whole
thing, together with all its corporate franchises and privileges.
If so, future acquired property became subject to the mortgage
as an accession to the thing mortgaged.
Under the general law of Louisiana, and under the charter
granted to the New Orleans, Baton Rouge and Vicksburg Railroad Cpmpany that company was expressly authorized to mortgage its property, and also its corporate franchises, and it did
mortgage all its property and also its corpbrate franchises.
Such a mortgage is a mortgage of the corporation as an entirety.
It includes allproperty owned by the corporation and all property subsequently acquired.
MR .

JusTicF Bnoww delivered the opinion of the court.

(1) The motion of the plaintiff Parker, to dismiss the appeal
as to him upon the ground that less than five thousand dollars
is/involved, demands our first consideration. :flis position is
that the suitembraces two separate and distinct controversies:
one between-Pa-ker aid appellants, and one between Hamlin
and appellau {s that there.were separate decrees in these' everal causes; that these decrees cannot be aggregated for the
purpose of sustaining the jurisdiction of this court, nor can the
appeal be sustained as to him by reason of the fact that, as to
Hamlin, more than the requisite jurisdictional amount is at isptle.
It is true that the amount of Parker's decree was but twentyfour hundred dollars and interest, but his bill was filed not only
for himself, but for all the other bondholders under the mortgage, and the cross-bill aVers that he actually represented upwards of two hundred of the bonds issued unde'r this mortgage,
(an averment admitted by his demurrer,) and prayed for a decree declaring the invalidity of the entire mortgage as to these

NEW ORLEANS PACIFIC RAILWAY v. PARKER. 51
Opinion 'of the Court.

lands. Had the bill been filed by the trustee under this mortgage for the foreclosure of the whole amount of the debt, and
a similar cross-bill had been filed for its cancellation, there could
be no doubt of the appealable character of any decree rendered
upon these pleadings. This mortgage, however, contained a
provision permitting a foreclosure by any holder of an overdue
bond or coupon. Parker's bill was filed practically for the
benefit of the entire number of bondholders, and the cross-bill
could not be sustained except upon the theory that the entire
mortgage was invalid as a lien upon these lands. While a decree in favor of the cross-plaintiff might not have been binding
upon any defendant to the cross-bill who did not appear, it
certainly would have been binding upon Hamlin as well as
Parker, since Hamlin, on being made a plaintiff, expressly stipulated that the cause should be considered as if he had been
one of the original plaintiffs; that Parker's pleadings should
be considered as his; and that the pleadings of the defendants
should apply equally to him. If Parker's argument in this
connection be sound, it would necessarily follow that if every
bondholder of this mortgage had intervened, and a cross-bill
had been filed against them all, praying a cancellation of the
entire mortgage, our jurisdiction to review a dismissal of this
bill could not be sustained as to any of such bondholders whose
decrees were not more than five thousand dollars, notwithstanding it would be sustained as to others whose decrees were
larger. The result would be that the land might be sold for
the benefit of the larger bondholders, and freed from the lien
of the smaller.
Where several plaintiffs claim under the same title, and the
determination of the cause necessarily involves the validity of
that title, this court has jurisdiction as to all such plaintiffs,
though the individual claims of none of them exceed five thousand dollars. Thus in Shields v. Thomas, 17 How. 3, 4, where
a bill was filed by several distributees of an estate, to compel
the payment of money alleged to be due them, and a decr:ee
was rendered in their favor, it was held that this court had
jurisdiction over an appeal,, although the amount payable tp
each individual was less than two thousand dollars. It was

OCTOBER TEUlM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

h~eld that the matter in controversy was the amount due the
representatives of the deceased collectively; and not the particular sum to which each was entitled, when the amount was
distributed among them. Said the court: "They all claimed
under one and the same title. They .had a common and undivided interest in the claim; and it was perfectly.immateri4 to
the appellant how it was to be shared among them." The
case of -Rodd v. Heartt, 17 Wall. 354, is still more nearly analogous. In this case, which was in admiralty, a fund exceeding the jurisdictional amount paid into the registry of the court
was claimed on the one hand by several creditors secured by
one mortgage, and on the other by a number of mariner. and
material men. A decree having been made adverser'to the
mortgagees, an appeal was taken by them to this court, and it
was held that although no one of the claims under the mortgage equalled the jurisdictional amount, yet as the claim of the
appellants, which was disallowed, exceeded that sum, an appeal
would lie. In The Connerlnara,.103 U. S. 754, it was held that
where salvors united in a claim for a -single salvage service,
jointly rendered by them, the owner of the property was entitled to an appeal where the sum decreed exceeded $5000, though
in the division among the several parties sharing in the recovery
several were awarded less than $5000. In line with these cases
are those of Davies v. Corbin,, 112 U. S. 36, and llandley v.
Stutz,. 137 U. S. 366.
The true distinction is between cases in which there are several plaintiffs interested collectively under a common title, and
those wherein the matters in dispute are separate and distinct,
and are joined in one suit for convenience or economy. Of
the latter 8tass are those relied upon by the plaintiff Parker in
this case, and his motion to dismiss must, therefore, be denied.
Indeed the cross-bill to set aside the whole mortgage as to these
lands is sdifficient of itself to remove all difficulty with regard
to olir jurisdiction.
(2) The case upon the merits depends upon th question
whether the mortgage of 1870 should be construed to cover a
land grant made by Congress'the following year to the Baton
'Rouge Company, in aid of the construction of its road. To

NEW ORLEANS PACIFIC RAILWAY v. PARKER.

53

Opinion of the Court.

answer this question satisfactorily it is necessary to consider
the power of this company under its charter, and the manner
in which it attempted to exercise this power.
The act of 1869 of the legislature of Louisiana, incorporating
the Baton Rouge Company, authorized it (see. 13) to obtain
from any parish or other municipality any rights, privileges
or franchises that such municipality might choose to grant in
reference to the construction of the road: and by section 14,
it was authorized to borrow money or to purchase property
for the purpose of constructing the road, to issue its corporate
bonds, and, to secure the payment of such bonds, to mortgage
its road, etc. By section 15, provision was made for a second
mortgage guaranteed by the State, and for bonds to be issued
and made payable to the State or bearer. By section 16, the
first mortgage that should be given was declared to be a prior
lien upon the railroad within the State, including all the "real
and personal estate within the State of Louisiana, appurtenant
to, or necessary for the operation of said main line of railroad,
owned by "the company at the date of said mortgage, or which
may be acquired by it thereafter; and upon the corporate
franchises and privileges of said company, granted by the
State of Louisiana, relative to the construction, operation and
use of said main line of railroad within the State of Louisiana,"
etc. The mortgage did not differ nmaterially from this act,
though its description of property covered by it is still more
explicit, and is as follows: "About five hundred and one miles
of railroad within the said State of Louisiana, together with the
right of way, road-bed, rail, depots, stations, shops, buildings,
machinery, tools, engines, cars, tenders and other rolling stock;
also all the real and personal estate within the State of Louisiana owned by the said cordpany at the date-of this mortgage,
or which may be acquired by it thereafter, appurtenant to, or
necessary for the operation of said main line of said railroad'
or any of said branches connected with the said main line, or
to be connected therewith'; also all other property, real and
personal, of every kind and description whatsoever and wherever situated in the State of Louisiana which is now owned or
which shall hereafter be acquired 'by the said company, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

which shall be appurtenant to ,or necessary or used for the
operation of said main line of railroad, or of any of said
branches; also the tenements, hereditaments and appurtenances thereunto belonging, and all of the estate, right, title
and interest, legal and equitable, of the said company and its
successors and assigns therein, together with the corporate
franchises and privileges of said company at any time granted
-or to be granted by the State of Louisiana relative to the construction, operation and use of said railroad within said State."
The bonds issued under this mortgage contained a similar description of the property, the latter clause of such description,
however, purporting to include "the corporate franchises and
privileges of said company granted by the-State of Louisiana
osr by act of Congress, relative to the construction," etc, How
these words, "or by act of Congress," came to be inserted in
the bonds does not appear; it may have been an oversight, or
the company may have supposed that the land grant would
be acquired and that the insertion of these words would impart additional currency to the bonds. It is not material,
however, to determine why or how this was done, since
neither the act of the legislature nor the mortgage itself
assumed in terms to cover anything granted by the act of
Congress.
The language of the act of the legislature and of the mortgage itelf restricts its lien to real and personal property situated in the State of Louisiana, then owned or which should
thereafter be acquired, and which should be appurtenant to,
or necessary, or used for the operation of the main line of said
road, or any of its branches. The succeeding clause, which
includes tenements, hereditaments and appurtenances thereunto belonging, etc., wa4s manifestly not intended as an expansion of the prior clause, and for the purposes of this case may
be treated as superfluous.- N o argument is needed to show
that a land grant is not necessary to the operation of a railroad; it may.be a necessary aid in the constructicn of a road,
but it is certainly not necessary in its operation. Plaintiff's contention, then, if supportable at all, must be upon the theory
that the land grant was appurtenant to the road, not necessa-

NEW ORLEANS PACIFIC RAILWAY v. PARKER.

55

Opinion of the Court.

rily to its operation, but to the road itself. The word "appurtenant," as ordinarily defined, is that which belongs to or is
connected with something else to which it is subordinate or
less worthy, and with which it passes as an incident, such a§
an easement or servitude to land; the tackle, apparel, rigging
and furniture-to a ship; a right of common to a pasture; or a
barn, garden or orchard to a house or messuage. In a strict
legal sense it is said that land can never be appurtenant to land,
,wlksog v. -Hathaway,15 Johns. 447, 454; -Leonardv. Whie,
7 Alass. 6; TWoodhull v. Rosenthal, 6i 1N. S. 382; but it was
evidently contemplated by this mortgage that real as well as
personal property subsequently acquired, such as land for
stations, machine shops or other purposes immediately connected with the road, should pass under the lien of the
mortgage. Property, however, not connected With what is
ordinarily termed the plant, or not forming a part of the organic structure of the road, is never treated as appurtenant to
it. Thus in lumpheeys v. Xc~isock, 140 U. S. 304, decided
at the last term of this court, it was held that a railroad
company joining in .the construction of an elevator upon land
not belonging to it, and situated at some distance from its road,
did not by its ownership of stock in the elevator company
acquire such an interest in it as would pass as an appurtenance
under the mortgage of the road, as constructed or to be constructed, and the "appurtenances thereunto ltelonging." The
court went further, and held that the elevator itself, if owned
by the, company, would not be appurtenant to its road. In
line with this are the earlier cases of far'risv. Elliott, 10 Pet.
25, holding that the soil and freehold of a street*did not pass
as appurtenant to a lot of land fronting upon such street. So in
v. Ray, 9 Wall. 241, it was said that the right to
use a wharf would not pass as appurtenant to a lot, as it was
not in any way connected wi44. the enjoyment or use of the
lot, and a right not so c9.nnected coul4 not be annexed as an
incident to land so as to become appurtenant to it. In Smith
v. 31eCullougA, 104 U. S.25, a mortgage executed by a railroad
company upon its then and thereafter"to be acquired property
contained a specific descrip'ion of such property, and was

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court..

held not to cover municipal bonds issued to it in building the
road, which were not embraced in such description. And in
Bank v. Tennessee, 104 U. S. 493, where a bank was required
by its charter to pay a certain tax in lieu of all other taxes,
and was authorized to purchase and hold a lot of ground for
its use "a§ a place of business," and hold such real property as
might be conveyed to it to secure its debts, it was held that
the immunity from taxation extended only to s6 much of the
building as was required by the actual needs of the bank in
carrying on its business. See also Tucker v. Ferguson,22 Wall.
527.
Analogous cases in the state courts-are numerous. Thus in
Paris/ v. W/eeler, 22 N. Y. 494, it was held that canal boats
purchased with the funds of a railroad company, and used and
run by it in connection with its railroad, but beyond its
terminus, were not covered by a mortgage of its engines, cars,
etc., "and all other personal property in any way belonging
or appertaining to the railroad of said company." So in
Bos4tn New York Air Line Railroadv. Coffin, 50 Connecticut, 150, the property mortgaged by the railroad company
was described very nearly in the terms employed in the mortgage under consideration, and it was held that lands purchased
by the company outside of the lay-out of the road, and not
needed for its use or construction, were not covered by the
mortgage. It was said in the opinion, that "lands purchased
and sold at a profit, although the profit might be expended
in the construction of the road, were never intended to be
embraced by the phrase, 'acquired by the company for the
purposes' of the railroad."' In .Aissis2si)ppi Valley Co. v.
Chicago, St. Louis & -Yew Orleans Railroad, 58 Mississippi,
846, a railroad mortgage 'covering property thereafter to be
acquired was confined to such as was appurtenant to or necessary for building or operating the road,. and carrying out the
purposes for which it was created, and was held not to include
a hotel and brick storehouse, some vacant town lots and a
farm of three hundred.acres; the hotel being used as a railroad eating-house, ad the other property being rented out
for the several purposes for. which it was adapted. In leyee

NEW ORLEANS PACIFIG RAILWAY v. PARKER. 57
Opinion of the Court.

v. Johnston,, 53 Alabama, 237, S. C. 64 Alabama, 603, a mortgage of a railroad and "all other property now owned, and which
may be hereafter owned by the railroad company," was held not
to cover a land grant of the United States made by an act of
Congress subsequently passed. Other cases to the same purport
are: S/amokm 'Valley Railroad Co. v. Livermore, 47 Penn.
St. 465; Dinsmore v. Racine &c. Railroad Company, 12
Wisconsin, 725; Farmers' Loan &ce. Company v. Commercial
Bank, 11 Wisconsin, 207; S. C. 15 Wisconsin, 424; .foryan v.
JDanovan, 58 Alabama, 241; WTalsh v. Barton, 24 Ohio St. 28;
Oalhoun v. .Memnphis & Paducak Railroad, 2 Flippin, 442;
Seymour v. Canandaigua& Nagara Falls Railroad,25 Barb.
284.
A consideration of the circumstances attending and follQwing
the execution of this mortgage strengthens the inference that
we have drawn from it, that the land grant was not intended
to be included. There is no allegation in the bill that the
parties to this mortgage expected, or had-any reason to expect
that the land grant would be made; and had it been intended
to include so important an, item, it is scarcely possible that the
mortgagor would have left such intention to be inferred from
the indefinite and ambiguous language of this instrument.
Nor is there any evidence that, after the act of Congress was
passed, the line of the road was ever definitely fixed, as contemplated by section 9 of the act of March 3, 1871, 16 Stat. c.
122, 573, 576, although it had filed a map designating the
general route of the road purguant to secti6ns 12 and 22, and
obtained an order from the Secretary of the Interior withdrawing from entry and sale the odd-numbered sections of
land within the grant and indemnity limits. As the grant
was, by section 9, of land$ not"sold, reserved or otherwise
disposed of at the time the route of the road was definitely
fixed, it is settled in this court that the title to any particulail
lands would not pass until the line was so located, because
until that time it could not be definitely ascertained what lands
had been otherwise disposed of. 'an Wyck v. Knevals, 106
U. S. 360; Kansas Pac.4 Railway v. .Dunmeyer, 113 U.'S.
629; Sioux City Zand Co. v. Grifey, ante, 32. As to lands

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

within the indemnity limits, it has always been held that no
title is acquireduntil the specific parcels have been selected by
the grantee, and approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
Grinnell v. Railroad Company, 103 U. f°
S. 739; KYansav
Paciftp Railroad v. Atchison, Topeka &c. Railroad,112 U. S.
414, 421 ; S. Paul&c. Railroad v. Winona & St. Petei-Railroad, 112 U. S. 720; Barney v. TFinonn, & St. Pete Rail'oad, 117 U. S. 228; United States v. .fissouri &c. Railway,
141 U. S. 358, 375 ; St. Paul&c. Railroadv. iYorthern Pacijfc,
-139 U. S. 1. A definite location of this line was subsequently
made by the Pacific Company; but there is no evidence that
such location coincided with the general route designated by
the Baton Rouge Company, and as no patents were ever
issued for the lands earned by the construction of the road
until March, 1885, when they were issued to the Pacific Company as assignee of the Baton Rouge Company, it is difficult
to see what lands were ever "acquired" by the latter company, to which this mortgage would attach.
Not only this, bat there is no allegation or evidence that
the Baton Rouge Company paid the cost of surveying, selecting and conveying these lands, as required by the act of July
31, 1876, 19 Stat. c. 246, 102, 121, as a preliminary to their
conveyance. .2eVW Orleans PacifA Railway v. United States,
124: U. S. 124; Deseret"Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241.
Nor is there any evidence to show that the Baton Rouge
Company ever built any of its line of road or did anything to
earn or acquire the title to any part of its land grant.
(3) The decrees in this case were also fatally defective in
ordering all the lands assumed to be covered by this mortgage
to be sold, free from all liens, mortgages and incumbrances,
to satisfy a claim of $2400 in one case and $6000 in. another,
without making provision for other bondholders, subsequent
mortgagees, or other creditors of the road. Assuming for the
purposes of this case that, . under the peculiar terms of this
mortgage, these bondholders had the right to file thii bill
without calling upon the trustee to act - a point upon which
we express no opinion- they had no right to a decree for
heir exclusive benefit. If a single bondholder has any right

NEW ORLEANS PACIFIC RAILWAY v. PARKER. 59
Opinion of the Court.

at all to institute proceedings, he is bound to act for all standing in a similar position, and not only to permit other bondholders to intervene, but to see that their rights are protected
in the final decree. Upon this principle it was held by this
court, in Pennock v. Coe, 23 How. 117, that a bondholder cannot, by getting a judgment at law, be perrifitted to sell a
,portion of the property devoted to the common, security, as
this would disturb thepro 'atct distribution among the bondholders to which they are equitably entitled. "These bondholders," said AMr. Justice Nelson, "have a common interest in
this security, and are all equally entitled to the benefit of it;
and in case of a deficiency of the fund to satisfy the whole of
the debt, in equity, a distribution is made among the holders
pro rata. ...
To permit, therefore, one of the bondholders under the second mortgage to proceed at law in the
collection of his debt upon execution would not only disturb
thepeo rataf distribution in case of a deficiency, and give him
an inequitable preference over his associates, but also have the
effect to prejudice the superior equity of the bondholders under
the first mortgage, which possesses the prior lien." Jones on
Railroad Securities, sections 392, 393, 434; .Fisk v. 2. Y.
lfte-Proof Paler Co., 29 N. J. Eq. 16; 3fartin v. lfobile
& Ohio 1i, R. Co., 7 Bush, 116.
In Piailrocd Corapany v. Or, 18 Wall. 471, 4,75, a bill was
filed by a bondholder, on behalf of himself and all others,
agaiust' a county and a railroad company for the foreclosure of
a mortgage given by the railroad company to secure the redemption of certain bonds issued by the county, and for a sale
of the mortgaged property. The railroad company demurred
for want of proper parties. It was held that the other bondholders should be parties to the suit, and, in delivering the
opinion of the court, Mr. Justice Hunt observed: "It is the
interest of every bondholder to diminish the debt of every
other bondholder. In so far as he succeeds in doing that, he
adds to his own security. Each holder, therefore, should be
present, both that he may defend his own claims and that he
may attack the other claims should there be just occasion for
it. If upon a fair adjustment of the amount of the debts there

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

should be a deficiency in the security, real of apprehended,
every one interested should have notice in. advance of the time,

place and mode of sale, that he may make timely arrangements
to secure a sale of the property at its full value."
In the view we have taken of the case it is unnecessary to
consider the other points made by the defence. We are satisfied, both from the words of the mortgage itself, and from the
circumstances attending its execution, that it should not be con-'
strued to include the land grant subsequently made to this
company.
The decrees of the court below must be
Reversed, and the case remanded with instructionsto dismiss
the bills of Parker and HMamlin, andforfurther_roceedings in conformity with this opinion.

NEW YORK, LAKE ERIE & WESTERN RAILROAD
COMPANY

v. WINTER'S ADMINISTRATOR.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF VASSACHUSETTS.
No. 169. Argued January 19, 20, 1892.-Decided February 1, 1892.

Parol evidence of what is said between a passenger on a railroad and the
ticket-seller of the company, at the time of the purchase by the passenger
of his ticket, is admissible as going to make up the contract of carriage
and forming part of it.
Passengers on railroad trains are not presumed or required to know the rules
and regulations of the company, made for the guidance of its conductors
and eiploy~s, as to its own internal affairs.
Plaintiff bought a ticket in Boston entitling him to a passage over defendants road. "At the time he informed the ticket agent of his wish to stop
off at the Olean station, ana was then told by the agent that he would
have to speak to the conductor about that. Between Binghamton and
Olean the plaintiff informed the conductor that he wished to stop over at
Olean and the conductor, instead of giving him a stop-over ticket, punched
his ticket and told him that was sufficient to give him the right to stop
overat Olean, and afterwards to use the punched ticket between Olean
and Salamanca. He made the stop, and taking another train to Salamanca,
presqnted the punched ticket, informing the conductor of what had taken

