STYLER v. SAVAGE.
Syllabus.

supervision of the revenue officers, to make it more secure, or
else to pay the tax and remove the spirits. The only duty
which the revenue officers owed in regard to the security of
the warehouse and the safekeeping of the spirits therein, was
to the government, and not to the defendants; and any negli'gence of those officers gave the defendants no rights against
the government, and afforded them no excuse for not performing their obligation according to its terms. This is too well
settled by previous decisions of this court to require more
extended discussion. Hart v. United States, 95 U. S. 316, and
cases cited; 2finturn v. United States, 106 U. S. 437.

The jury in this case having been instructed otherwise, the
judgment must be
Reversed, and the case remanded with directions to set aside
the verdict, and to order a new trial.
In No. 152, a similar case between the same parties, a like
judgment was entered.
Mr. Solicitor General for the United States.
1No appearance for defendants in error.

TYLER v. SAVAGE.
APPEAL FROM THE 'CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRIOT OF VIRGINIA.
1o. 158. Argued January 18,1892. -Decided

February 1, 1892.

A derree in a suit in equity found that T., an individual defendant, and the
remaining assets of a corporation defendant, were liable to the plaintiff
for the sum of $10,000 paid by him into the treasury of the company.
at ±he instance of T., for a certificate of stock therein, which company
was represented to him by T., who was its president, to be in a flourishing conditibn, when in fact it'was insolvent; and distributed $176.24 as
the remaining assets of the company, of which: $13.24 went to the plaintiff as a 6redit on his claim for $10;000; and decreed that T. pay to the
plaintiff $10,000, subject to a credit of the $13.24. There was no demurrer

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
tothe bill for multifariousness, and uo objection taken in the court below
for want of equity. The bill set out fraud in T., and that the ,10,000 was
due to the plaintiff by T. and the company, and required answers to interrogatories, which answers referred to the books of the company for
Jnformation: Held,
(1) To support jurisdiction in equity, there were in the case discovery,
account, fraud, misrepresentation and concealment; the objection
to the jurisdiction was not taken in the court below; and the case
was not one of a plain defect of equity jurisdiction, under § 723
of the Revised Statutes;
(2) The decree was not outside of the case made by the bill, but gave
relief agreeable to it, under the prayer for general relief;
(3) The evidence sustained the decree, and the report of a master, finding in favor of the plaintiff the facts on which the decree 'was
based, was not excepted to by T.

TnE court stated the case as follows:
This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Virginia, by Sarah"
C. Savage, a citizen of Pennsylvania, who sues for herself "and
all others, creditors of -the Virginia Oil Company, who will
make themselves parties to this suit on the usual terms,"
against the 'Virginia Oil Company, a Virginia corporation;
John Tyler, president of said company, and in his own right;
John W. Otley, C. W. Tanner, Isaac Davenport, Jr., J. H.
Montague, C. E. Belvin, late directors in said company, and
citizens of Virginia; and Joseph D. Evans and J. F. Crane,
citizens of lXew York.
The bill, which was filed December 11, 1885, so far as it is
material to give its contents, set forth that the plaintiff, being
afixious to secure a business position for her son, H. C. Savage,
was referred by William E..Tanner, of Richmond, Virginia,
With whom she had business transactions, to John Tyler, president of the Virginia Oil Company, of which company 0. W.
Tanner, a son of William E. Tanner, was a member; that
through. William E. Tanner she opened negotiations with
Tyler, and was informed that she could secure for her son a
position equivalent to that of assistant secretary in the company, by the investment of $10,000; that she was willing to
make thoat investment in the shape.of a loan well secured, but

TYLER v. SAVAGE.
Statement. of the Case.

Tyler declined to take the sum as a loan, and required that she
should purchase of the company that amount of' its capital
stock at its par value; that, to induce her to purchase the
tock, Tyler, as president of the company, sent to her the following letter:
"VIrGINIA OIL COMPANY,
" RICH.MOND, VA.,

April 10th, 1884.

"Mrs. S. C. Savage.
"My DEA MADAM: Your favor of the 9th is rec'd. During
the short interview I had with your son I concluded that he
could easily undertake the duties that would be required of
him in the employ of this company. With regard to the
nature of the investment conveyed in the proposition thro'
Col. Tanner, I would say that we have no trouble in borrowing all the money necessary for the conduct of the business
upon its present basis, but the proposition to you embraced
the idea, (which we had been considering,) of permanently
enlarging the scope of our business by increasing our capital
stock and getting additional office help. You will readily
appreciate the difference to a man'f'g business between borrowing money, which may be'called for at the pleasure of the
lender, and having the same ain't in the shape of a permanent
investment, so we concluded that whatever arrangement was
made in this direction must be upon a stock basis.
"As to the condition of our Co., th6 capital stock is at present 818,300, with authority from the stockholders to increase
it to $30,000. The last dividend that was declared was a 7%
semi-annual. The fiscal year ends on the first of June.
"The prospects of our Co. I consider flattering. We have
in the past few months decreased our expenses and the outlook
for business is better than ever before.
"Our products are sold North, South & West, and the field
we are working is so wide that we could without much risk
double our business by adding moderately to our capital. Our
manufactures pay a large profit and are favorably known
throughout the territory we have. travelled. As to your
chances of selling your stock at par whenever you might wish,
I can only say that a gentleman of New York has bought 30
VOL. cXIM-6

OCTOBER TERN 1891.
Statement of the Case.

"hares at par within the last ten days, but a sale of stock in
any m'f'g Co. would depend on its profitableness at the time
the sale was made. Should our negotiations result in your
son's coming with us, I shall personally try to make his position a pleasant one.
"Very resp'y,'
Jomr TmLn, Pr'es't;"1
that the plaintiff relied upon the statehnents made in'the letter,
and had a right to rely on them, as a basis for the investment of
her money; and that the important statements made therein
were as follows: (1) The then capital stock of the company
was $18,300, with authority from the stockholders to increase
it to $30,000; (2) the last dividend declared was seven per cent
semi-annual, and the current fiscal year would end June 1;
(3) the manufactures of the compafiy were paying a large
pf)fit, and were favorably known throughout a wide territory,
north, south and west; (4) there had been a late decrease of
expenses, and the outlook for'business was better than ever
before; (5) by adding moderately to their capital, they could,
without much riskdouble their business; and (6) a gentleman
of lNew York had bought thirty shares of the stock at par
within the last ten days.
The bill further averred that, with those statements from
the president of the company, she concluded that its stock was
a safe investment, and consented to take the stock instead of
loaning the money, which was her preference, but which the
I6tter assured her would not suit the company; that thereupon, on May 19, 1884, she paid into the tieasury of the company $10,000, and received a certificate for one hundred shares
of stock..which she still holds; that, in accordance with her
understanding with Tyler, her son was given a position at a
salary of $800'per annum, and performed the duties assigned
to him until the suspension of the office work; that when the
1st of December. 1884, arrived, she was not informed of the
declaration of the semi-aiinual dividend she had been led to
expect, and on the 5th of that month she wrote to Tyler a
letter of inquiry concerning it; tnat in reply she received a letter from him, as follows:

TYLER v. SAVAGE.
Statement of the Case.

"VIRGINIA OIL COMPANY,

"IcHmoND, VA., Dec. 8ti, 1884.
":Mrs.
Savage.Your favor of the 5th is reo'd. Our com"r. S. 0.
CA
MAA:
pany have tho't it wise -as many other m'f'g Co.'s who have
not a large surplus of capital have also - in view of the depression in business which causes payments to come in very
slowly, to omit a semi-annual declaration of dividend.
"You are mistaken in supposing that the general condition
of the finances of the country does not affect our business. It
has caused R. R'ds to be months behind in their payments, as
well as slack in their orders, on whom the business is largely
dependent, but in spite of this the business of the last six
months shows a profit over and above expenses.
"You will see, therefore, it is in the interest of all the stockholders that we have prudently determined to avoid weakening our treasury by withdrawing a dividend at this season.
"Hoping this explanation will be satisfactory, I remain "Very resp'y,
JoHN TYLEzR, P'es't"
that, when the 1st of June, 1885, arrived she received no notice
of dividend and some weeks later received a statement of the
business of the company for the fiscal year from June 1, 1884,
to June 1, 1885, showing a loss of $3602.947 for the year, and
a circular, signed by Tyler as president, making suggestions
in regard to reducing expenses, and giving reasons for the
idepression of business, the reduction of expenses to involve the
striking from the pay-roll of a son of Tyler, whose salary was
$480 a year, and of the plaintiff's son, 'whose salary was $800;
and that she also received from Tyler a letter dated August 4,
1885, stating that the company owed him between $5000 and
$6000, borrowed money, and proposing that, if the plaintiff
would assume that debt to Tyler, he would resign his position
as president and allow her son to remain in the employment
of the company.
The bill also alleged that, for some time before 1881, Tyler
and Otley, under the firm name of John Tyler & Co., conducted at Richmond a business in oils, railroad grease, etc.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

and with Tanner, Montague, Davenport and Belvin formed a
corporation under the laws of Virginia, known as the Virginia
Oil Company, with a-capital of not less than $15,000 and not
more than $300,000, the stock to be divided into shares of
the value of $100 each, to.pursue the business of refining and
wholesale and retail dealing in petroleum oils, the manufacture and sale of illuminating and lubricating oils, and compounds, including animal, mineral and vegetable oils, the
right of prospecting and boring for oils, and the privilege of
buying and selling on commission or otherwise crude'petroleum
and other materials used either separately or in combination
for illuminating and lubricating purposes, of which company
Tyler was named as president and the other five corporators
as directors; that certificates of paid-up stock in the company
were issued May 21, 1881, to Tyler, Otley and Tanner, respe6tively, for 50 shares each, and to Daven'ort, Montague and
Belvin, respectively, for one share each, aggregating 153 shares
or $15,300; that on November.12, 1881, 30 shares were issued
to Evans, making in all 183 shares; that the books show that
no money was paid by Tyler and Otley for their shares, but
that the $10,000 of their shares and $164:7.15 due by John
Tyler & Co. to Tyler, making in all $11,647.15, was balanced
by tle following items namely: Amount of inventory turned
over, $2150.51; merchandise, balances, $267.55, and cash,
$46.50; machinery and fixtures, $395.75; amount of stock
allowed Tyler and Otley in consideration of good will, forfnulas, etc., of John Tyler & Co., $8486.84; total, $11,647.15;
that Tyler, as president, Otley, as superintendent, and Tanner,
as secretary and treasurer, were each paid a salary, believed
to be as much as $1500 per annum apiece, and on June 1, 1882,
at the end of the first year, dividends of 20 per cent upon the
original capital stock and seven per cent on the shares of
Evans, were declared and paid, amounting to $3270; that
since that date no dividend had been paid, and now the company was admitted to be insolvent; that on April 3,. 1884-,
Otley's stock was surrendered to the company, and he ivas
paid therefor $2500, being at tho rate of fifty cents on the
dollar, and his duties and salary as superintendent ceased;

TYLER v. SAVAGE.
Statement of the Cas

that if that purchase of stock, and the original payments of
Tyler and Otley for their stock were permitted to stand, the
company was insolvent on April 10, 1884, when Tyler represented it to be in a prosperous condition; that Tyler's letter
of April 10, 1884, both by its statements and its omissions,
was false and deceitful and operated as a fraud upon the
plaintiff, and would cause her to lose the money so obtained
from her unless the proper relief should be granted to her;
that the mode of settlement for their stock adopted by Tyler
and Otley was illegal and fraudulent, and ought to be set
aside and they be made to pay for their stock in money; that
the pretended sale of good will, formulas, etc., by John Tyler
& Co. was in fact a pirchase by Tyler from himself, which
could not be allowed when he was using the assets of the
corporation in the transaction; that the price placed upon
that intangible property was fictitious and fraud'ulent; that
now, when the corporation was admitted to be insolvent, not
one dollar was estimated as the value of such good will and
formulas, in the inventory of the assets made by Tyler; that
the taking out of the assets of $2500 by Otley on account of
his stock was illegal, and he was a debtor for that sum, with
interest; and that any dividend paid to directors and stockholders out of the capital stock of the company made such
directors and stockholders liable to the creditors of the company for such dividend.
The bill further alleged that the sum of,$10,000' having been
unlawfully obtained from the plaintiff "by the misrepresentatiois of the affairs of the said company by John Tyler, its president and duly authorized agent, and the same having gone into
the treasur of, and been expended by, the said company, the
said sum, with interest thereon from the 1st day of June, 1884,
is justly due her by the said Tyler and Virginia Oil Company,
and she has a right to require all the proper assets of the company to be gotten in and to have them applied to the liquidation of the debts due her and others;" that, if any money
was due to the company for any part of the subscription of
Evans to its stock, both Evans and Crane (the assignee of his
stock) were debtors to the company therefor; that the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 189I.
Statement of the Case.

pany was insolvent; and that it was necessary that a receiver
of its assets should be appointed.
The bill prayed for answers by the defendants to the following interrogatories: "1. What amount of stock has been
issued by the Virginia Oil Company, to whom, and when
issued? 2. What was the consideration paid for said stock by
the several stockholders, and when and how has it been paid?
3. What sums have been paid to the said stockholders as dividends and when were they so paid and by what authority?
4. What sums have been paid to the several defendants who
claim to hpve been officers of the company and by what authority? 5. Whether any stockholder has surrendered his
stock to the company; and, if so, when and what was paid
him for the same? 6. What was the statement made to the
stockholders, at the end of each fiscal year; of the condition
of the company and .its business, by the president and directors, or any of them?' 7. What meetings of the stockholders
have been held, and what were 'their proceedings at such meetings? 8. How was the money paid in by your oratrix for her
stock expended by the company? 9. How and when was the
capital lost? "
The bill further prayed for an account of the assets and
debts of the company; that the assets be realized as quickly
as possible and the funds arisifig therefrom be paid to its creditors; that the plaintiff's claim to be repaid the money she
was induced to pay for the stock. issued to her, with interest
thereon, be established and be made a debt of the company,
and payment of the same be decreed to her; that an injunction be granted, restraining the company and its officers and,
agents from managing. or interfering in its affairs; that a receiver be appointed to take charge of its property and effects,
and administer them under the direction of the court ; and
that.general relief be granted and all orders made that the
nature of 'the case might require and to the court might seem
meet.
On notice, a receiver was appointed, and all the defendants,
except Evans and-Crane, were serted with a subpcena. Otley
answered the Vill and the interrogatories. and alleged that he:

TYLER v. SAVAGE.'
Statement of the Case.

was not liable to the plaintiff. Tyler entered his appearance
as president of the company and in his own right. The bill
was taken as confessed against Tanner, Montague and Belvin.
Tyler answered the bill, admitting that he wrote the letter of
April 10, 1881, averring that everything stated therein as facts
was then true, admitting also that he wrote the letters of
December 8, 1884, and August 4, 1885, averring that their
statements were true and made in good faith, answering the
interrogatories, and denying his .liability to the plaintiff.
Tyler did not challenge the equitable jurisdiction of the court,
nor demur to the bill for multifariousness.
The plaintiff replied generally to the answers of Otley and
Tyler, and the bill was taken as confessed against the-corporation and Davenport.
The receiver reported to the court, on April 15, 1886, that
he had not been able to sell the machinery, of the corporation,
but had disposed of the remnant stock of soaps and, oils, and
had found that the accounts due the company were almost all
uncollectible. He made a statement of- receipts and expenditures, accompanied by vouchers, showing no money on hand,
and asked to be relieved from his receivership.
On May 14, 1886,. an order was made that the suit proceed
without service on Evans and Crau6, confirming the receiver's
•report, accepting his resignation and discharging him, appointing another receiver in his place, and referring it to a master
to inquire and report, on the testimony of witnesses to be taken
and returned by him to the court: "1. What amount- of capital stock has been issued by the defendant the Virginia Oil
Company, to whom and when issued. 2. What was the consideration paid by each holder for the stock issued to him, and
when and how paid, and. whether full consideration was paid
therefor. 3. What sums have been paid to the several stockholders as dividends, and when, and by what authority, were
the payments made; and, if by order of the board of directors
or of the stockholders, whether the orders were made at lawful meetings at which there was present a proper quorum.
4. What was the true condition of the company when 'such
dividends were declared, and whether they were paid out

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

of the profits earned or out of capital or money borrowed.
5. Whether any stockholder has surrendered his stock or any
part of it to the company; and, if so, when and what was paid
Lim therefor; and what was the condition of the company at
the time as to solvency, and whether the said purchase of
stock by the company reduced its capital to less than the minimum allowed by the charter. 6. What sums have been paid
to the several defendants, or any of them, who have acted as
officers of the company, and by what authority; and if by
orders of the directors or stockholders, whether at lawfully
constituted meetings. 7. An account of the assets and liabilities of the Virginia Oil Company, showing any priorities which
,;xist among the said liabilities. 8. A correct statement of the
condition of the affairs of the company on or about the 1st
June, 1884, when the plaintiff was induced to subscribe for
stock therein, showing whether the said company was solvent
and in a prosperous condition as represented in the .letter of
John Tyler to the plaintiff, dated 10 April, 1884, and filed as
Exhibit ' A ' with the bill. 9. Any other matter deemed pertinent by the master or required by either party."
The new receiver reported in January, 1887, that in June,
1886, he had sold all the property of the corporation; that the
proceeds of tle sale amounted to $367.65; and that he had
received incash $123.89 and disbursed the whole thereof, and
deposited in the bank to the credit of the court noies for
$248.41. The court made an order confirming his report and
discharging him.
In July, 1887, the master filed his report as to the nine items
of inquiry referred to him. He reported that the shares of
capital stock issued by the corporation were, as stated in the
bill, 283 in number, including the 100 issued to the plaintiff;
that the plaintiff paid for her stock on .May 19, 1884, although
the certificate issued to her was dated May 31, 1884; that the
consideration paid by Tyler And Otley for their stock was the
good will of the business of John Tyler & Co., "and a number of
valuable recipes and formulas for the manufacture of oils and
grease, together with the stock and fixtures of that business,"
the former valued at $8486.84, and the latter at $1513.16 net;

TYLER v. SAXVAGE.
Statement of the Case.

that the only dividend ever declared by the corporation was
made June 1, 1882, of 13 per cent on the capital stock of the
company owned by stockholders the first six months of the
year, and 7 per cent on that owned by stockholders the -last
six months of the year; that the corporation was solvent and
prosperous when that dividend was declared, and it was paid
out of earnings; that no stock was surrendered by Otley to
the corporation; that the salaries of Tyler as president, Otley
as superintendent, and Tanner as secretary and treasurer, were
$100 a month each for the 3ear ending June 1,1882, and afterwards were $1500 a year each until the business was closed,
excepting that Otley's salary.ceased on'October 16, 1883, when
he sold his stock to Tyler; that there was in bank to the credit
of the court in the cause, $166.61; and that there were claims
against the corporation, whicl had been presented to the
receiver, amounting to $715.83.
As to the inquiry what was the condition of the affairs of
the corporation on or about June 1, 1884, and as to whether
it was solvent and in a prosperous condition on April 10, 1884,
the date of Tyler's letter to the plaintiff, the master reported
that, according to a statement made by Tyler, the assets then
exceeded the liabilities by $3261.45, but the items of assets in
that statement included $5000 for the stock purchased from
Otley; that such $5000 ought to be stricken out entirely, or, if
- the stock was paid for out of the company's money, ought to
be reduced to the $2500 actually paid, leaving an excess of
assets of $761.45 to represent the whole of the cash.paid stock;
but that, as Otley's stock was purchased without authority
from the corporation, and the purchage never was approved
by it, that item of $2500 also ought to be stricken out, and
thus Tyler's statement presented the corporation as having lost
its entire cash paid stock and being largely in debt besides;
that the formulas and recipes purchased for $8486.84 were then
and ever since had been without value or at least unsalable;
and that, in a word, the corporation was bankrupt.
The master reported further that on May 19, 1884, the day
the plaintiff's stock vas paid for, there was paid to a bank in
Richmond by the company $5900, of which $4900 went to take

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

up notes of the company, indorsed by Tyler and Tanner, and
$1000 to take up-a note of Tyler's, secured by stock of the company; that on May 20, 1884, $300 was paid to Tyler by the
company for loans made to it by him in the previous part of
that month; that on May 18, 1884, the cash receipts and payments were very nearly balanced; that after that date to the
close of that month the receipts were about $320, and, according to Tyler's statement, the amount on hand June 1, 1884,
was $246.32; and that it was obvious, therefore, that the large
payments above mentioned were made from the money received
from the plaintiff.
The master with his report returned the depositions he had
taken. The plaintiff filed exceptions to the report, but none of
the defendants excepted. The case was heard, and onthe 20th
of February, 1888, a decree was made which stated that "the
court, being of opinion that the defendant John Tyler, individually, and the remaining assets of the Virginia Oil Company, are liable to the plaintiff, Sarah C. Savage, for the sum
of ten thousand dollars paid by her into the treasury of the
company, at the instance of the said John Tyler, on the 19th
day of May, 1884, for a certificate of one hundred shares of
stock in said company, which said company was represented
to her by the said Tyler, its president, to be in a flourishing
condition, when, in fact, it was insolvent, doth so decide, and
having caused a statement to be made and filed, marked (R. T.),
showing how the fund of $176.24 in the Merchants' National
Bank of Richmond to the credit of this cause should be distributcd, doth adjudge, order and decree that Mvi. F. Pleasants, the
clerk of this court, do draw a check upon the said fund to the
credit of the court in this cause in the Merchant' National
Bank of Richmond, in his own favor, for the sum of $88 in
full of his fees and charges in this cause, and a check upon the
said fund in favor of W. W. Henry, attorney for Sarah C. Savy
age, for $50, the amount of cost paid by the plaintiff in this
case, and that he do check upon the said fund for the balance
thereof, to wit, $33.24, in favor of the said W. W. Henry, attorney for Sarah C. Savage, of which $20 is the docket fee taxed
for plaintiffs attorney, and $13.24 shall be a credit on the said

TYLER v. SAVAGE.
Argument for Appellant.

claim of the plaintiff for ten thousand dollars; and the courtdoth further adjudge, order and decree that the defendant John
Tyler do pay to the plaintiff, Sarah 0. Savage, ten thousand
dollars, with interest there6n, at the rate of six per centum per
annum, from the 19th day of May, 1884, till paid, subject to d
credit of $13.24 as of this day, and that the'plaintiff be at liberty to sue out execution for the same; and the report of the
master is confirmed in all other respects."
The court thus distributed a fund of $176.24 [171.24 ?] in its
hands, the proceeds of the pr6perty of the corporation, by paying to the clerk $88 for fees, and to the plaintiff's attorney $50
for costs, and $20 as a docket fee, and the remainder, $13.24,
as a credit on the claim of the plaintiff for $10,000; and then
it ordered the defendant Tyler to pay to the plaintiff $10,000,
with interest at six per cent from M ay 19, 1884, subject to a
credit of the $13.24, as of the. date of the decree. From this
decree,-Tyler appealed to this coufrt.
.M. Assistant Attorney General .Ifaury for appellant.
I. The first question to be considered is that of jurisdiction,
The only ground on which the bill can be supported against
Tyler is, that it contains averments to the effect that Tyler is
indebted to the Virginia Oil Company on account of his stock
therein, and that what is thus owing by him is a part of. the
assets of the company, and that the complainant has an equity
to compel payment of the amount thus due, and to subject it
to her claim for damages against the company.
The only equity the plaintiff pretended she had against Tyler
was to demand that he should be compelled to pay for his
stock in the Virginia Oil Company in money, it being averred
that what had been claimed fo be a paymeit for the stock was
largely fraudulent and fictitious.
This contention, so persistently made, was declared by the
master to be untenable in view of the facts established before
him, and the decree confirms the masier's report over the
plaintiff's exceptions on this head.
This action of the court and master, from which there is

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

no cross appeal by appellee, left the case entirely destitute of
equity against Tyler, and the bill should have been dismissed.
If parties could give jurisdiction in equity to the United States
courts by mere averments unsubstantiated by proof, the constitutional guaranty of trial by jury would be worthless. This
court carefully protects that constitutional right from invasion by equity. Russell v. Clark, 7 Cranch, 69; Pakersburg
v. Brown, 106 U. S. 487; Buzrcd v. llouston, 119 U. S. 3417;
A3'amer v. Cohi, 119 U. S. 355. Upon this ground alone it
would seem that the bill should be dismissed.
II. The, decree is outside the case made by the bill. It
was a surprise, as well as an injustice to the appellant, who
has as fair a name as any person in the city bf Richmond.
Indeed, it is noticeable that the decree, in stating the deduction of the court from the evidence, does not state that Mr.
Tyler had made talse representations to Mrs. Savage, knowing
then, to be false, but merely says that the representations were
not true; but it d(id not follow, neceear;ly, that Tyler kne'
t/iey woere not true. The draughtsman of that decree no doubt
thought, and properly, too, that it would be a libel upon Mr.
Tyler, from a moral point of view, to make the decree recite
that that gentleman had wilfully misled Mrs. Savage; and in
this way we may account for the remarkable omission from
the decree of that necessary element of the plaintiff's case.
An examination of the bill shows that the complainant proceeded on the theory that the defendants Tyler and Otley
owed the Virginia Oil Company more than $10,000 for the
50 shares of stock held by each of them, and alleged to have
been paid for in a way that was a fraud on the company and
its- creditors, and the tenacity with which the complainant
clung to this point up to the fin} decree shows that she and
her counsel deemed it to be well founded. The bill also claims
that, the defendant Otlev owes the company the further sum of
$250), with interest,'the same being money of the company
paid himillegally, as alleged, by Mr. Tyler, as president of the
company, for the purpose of retiring the shares of stock held
by him. It is manifest, therefore, that the plaintiff considered
that she had in these and other supposed assets of the corn-

TYLER v. SAVAGE.
Opinion of the Court.

pany an ample fund for the satisfaction of her demand, and
that there was no necessity for pressing any claim she might
have against Tyler personally, otherwise than as a stockholder
who is alleged not to have paid up his stock. Tyler and the
other stockholders were made parties to the bill because they
were supposed to be debtors to the company on their stock.
The truth is, no doubt, that it was no part of the complainant's original plan of attack to urge a demand against Tyler
for the alleged fraud, and that it was not until the complainant's case against the defendants Tyler and Otley, as debtors
to the company, broke down, that an attempt was made to
hold Tyler personally responsible for the alleged fraud.
The complainant had no right to urge a demand against
Tyler covertly, and thereby throw him off his guard and surprise him at the last moment, when it was too late to demur
for multifariousness, and the court will presume from the face
of the bill that no such improper course was intended, while
every doubt in the bill will be resolved against the complainant, according to the well known rule. Upon this ground,
also, the decree is invalid, being entirely outside the case made
in the bill.
III. Upon the question of fraud we have to say that after
a careful examination of this record, we do not hesitate to say
that it is incomprehensible to us how the learned judge ,below
could have felt warranted in putting the stigma of this decree
on the appellant, who is among the most honorable and respected citizens of Richmond.
JM'. Tlliaw, TFi/'t Henry fPr appellee.
IR. JUSTICE ]BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

It is assigned for error (1) that the record does not present
a case for the exercise of jurisdiction in equity; (2) that the
decree is outside of the case made in the bill, which is for the
enforcement of the corporate liability of the Virginia Oil Company; (3) that the evidence does not warrant the imputation of
fraud to the defendants Tyler and the Virginia Oil Company;
and (4) that the decree is devoid of support in the record.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

(1) It is contended that the only ground on which the bill
can be supported against Tyler is, that it contains averiments
to the effect that he is indebted to the corpoiration on account
of his stock in it; that what is thus owed by him is a part of
its assets; and that the plaintiff has an equity to compel payment of the amount thus due, and -to subject it to her claim
for damages against the corporation. It is contended that,
stripped of those averments, the bill is nothing more than a
declaration in an action on theiase, at law, for the recovery
of damages for a false representation; that, as the case
stands in the record, with reference to Tyler, it is wholly destitute of equity, and therefore the cour" decreed on a case that
was beyond its jurisdiction; that the only equity which the
plaintiff pretended she had against Tyler was to compel him
to pay in money for his stock in the company, it being averred
that what had been claimed to be a payment for the stock
was largely fraudulent and fictitious; that the master did not
find that the stock issued to Tyler.was not fully paid for, and,
the plaintiff having excepted to the report because the master
did not so find, the court confirmed his report in that respect;
that, as the plaintiff took no appeal, the case was thus left
destitute of equity against Tyler, and the bill should have
been dismissed; and reference is made, under this head, to the
cases of Russell v. Clark's Executors, 70 ranch, 69, 89;
DTompson v. Railroad Companies, 6 Wall. 137; -nsurance
Co. v. Bailey, 13 Wall. 616; Parkerssurgv. Brown, 106 U. S.
487, 500; Buzard v. -Houston,119 U. S. 347, 352; Eramer
v. Cohn, 119 U. S. 355, 357; and § 723 Rev. Stat. U. S.
The bill set out a case of 'fraud practised upon the plaintiff
by Tyler, in that, in order to induce her to purchase the
$10,000 of stock, he, as president of the company, sent to her
the letter of April 10, 1884, upon the statements in which she
relied and had a right to rely. It was alleged in the bill that
the letter, both by its statements and its omissions, was false
and deceitful, and operated as a fraud upon the plaintiff, and
that, $10,000 .having been obtained from her unlawfully, by
thei'nisrepresentations. of the affairs of the company by Tyler,
its president and duly authorized agent, and having gone into

TYLER v. 'SAVAGE.
Opinion of the Court.

its treasury and been expended by it, that sum was justly due
her by Tyler- and the company, with interest, and she had a
right to require all the proper assets of the company to be
gotten in and applied to the debts due to her and others; that
the company was insolvent; and that a receiver ought to be
appointed
for it.
. The bill also
required from the defendants answers tothe interrogatories which it contained. Tyler and Otley, in their answers
to the interrogatories, referred to the books of the company as
containing the facts which would give answers 'to those interrogatories; &nd Tyler, in his testimony, referred to the books
as showing the facts in regard to the condition of the company
on June 1, 1884. The information obtained from the answers
to the interrogatories and from the proofs in the books showed
the insolvent condition of the company on June 1, 1884, and
that, as the master reported, it was at that date bankrupt.
Tyler must be held to have had knowledge at that time of the
condition of the company, as he was its president, and commenced keeping its books about March, 1883; and he is
chargeable with knowledge of the facts, reported by the
master, that of the $10,000 paid by the plaintiff he received
personally the benefit of $6200. The recovery by the plaintiff
thus depended largely on the information in the possession of
the company and of Tyler, and which was sought for by the
bill; and an application of the assets of the company, to
replace such of the mofley paid by the plaintiff as had been
used by it, was necessary before Tyler could be made responsible individually for what the assets of the company would
not pay.
Thus there were in the case, as ingredients to support the
jurisdiction of equity, discovery, account, fraud, misrepresentation and concealment. Story Eq. Jur. §§ 64k, 67, 184, 191;
Jones v. Bolles, 9 Wall. 364, 369.
Under § 723 of the Revised Statutes, the remedy at law, in
order to exclude equity, must be as practical and as efficient
to the ends of justice and its prompt administration, as the
remedy in equity. Boyce's Eoeuors v. Grundy, 3 Pet. 210,
215; -InsuranceCo. v. Bailey, 13 Wall. 616, 620.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

In Russell v. Clar',7s Executors, 7 Oranch, 69, 89, the bill
was one for discovery, and the answer disclosed nothing, the
plaintiff supporting his case by testimony in his own possession. In the case now before us, discovery was only one of
the grounds of jurisdiction, and the answers to the bill disclosed, through the books of the company, facts which the
plaintiff sought to discover.
In Parkersburg v. Browni 106 U. S. 487, 500, it was held
that there was a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law
for the relief granted by the decree. In the present case, discovery was prayed for and made, the affairs of an insolvent
corporation were settled up, the subscription to stock made by
the plaintiff was substantially cancelled, part of the proceeds
of the assets of the company were applied to the repayment
of the $10,000, and a decree for the balance was made against
Tyler, the agent of the company, who had committed the
fraud.
In B uzarci v. Houston, 119 U. S. 317, the ruling was, that
a court of equity would not sustain a bill in a case of fraud, to
obtain only a decree for the payment of money by way of
damages, when the like amount might 'be recovered in an
action at law; and that, if a bilf in equity showing ground for
legal and not'for equitable relief, prayed for a discovery as
incidentalonly to the relief sought, and the answer disclosed
nothing, but the plaintiff supported the claim by independent
evidence, the bill ought to be dismissed, without prejudice to
an action at law.
In Kramer v.' Cohn, 119 U. S. 355, the ruling was, that a
bill in equity by an assignee in bankruptcy against the bankrupt and another person, alleging that the bankrupt, with
intent to defraud his creditors, concealed and sold his property
and invested the proceeds in a business carried on by him in
the name-of the other defendant, should, on a failure to prove
the latter allegation, be dismissed without prejudice to an actiQn
at law against the bankrupt.
The present case is not within the rulings in the cases thus
roferred to.
Moreover, the objection now made to the jurisdiction in

TYLER. v. SAVAGE.
Opinion of the Court.

equity was not raised in the court below, by answer or otherwise. It is said in TIeon2pson v. _Rai1oad Comnpanie, 6 Wall.
131, 137, that usually, where a case is not cognizable in a court
of equity, the objection is interposed in the first instance, but
that if a plain defect of jurisdiction appears at the hearing or
on appeal, a court of equity will not make a decree. The
present case, as before demonstrated, so far from showing a
plain defect of equity jurisdiction, is a case for its exercise.
In recent cases in this court the subject of the raising for
the first time in this court of the question of want of jurisdiction in equity has been considered. In Reyecv v. Dumont, 130
U. S. 354, 395, it was said that the court, for its own protection, might prevent matters properly cognizable at law from
being drawn into chancery at the pleasure of the parties
interested, but that it by no means followed, where the subjectmatter belonged to that class over which a court of equity had
jurisdiction, and the objection that the complainant had an
adequate remedy at law was not made until the hearing in the
appellate tribunal, that the latter could exercise no discretion
in the disposition of such objection; and reference was made
to 1 Daniell's Chancery Practice, 555, 4th Am. ed.; Wylie v.
Cce, 15 How. 415, 420; Oelriehs v. Spain, 15 Wall. 211 ; and
Lewis v. Coc.s, 23 Wall. 466. To the same effect are Kilbourn
v. S&,adeeland, 130 U. S. 505, 514; Brown v. ZLke Sit)perior
J'oi Co., 134 U. S. 530, 535, 536; and Allen v. Pullmbn's
PahiejCa.' Co., 139 U. S. 658, 662.
(2) As to the decree being outside the case made in the bill,
we think the allegations of the bill as to the fraud are adequate, and that the statement of the decree that the company
was represented to the plaintiff by Tyler, its president, to be
in a flourishing condition, when in fact it was insolvent, is a
sufficient support of the allegations of fraud made in the bill.
The averment of the bill that the $10,000 was justly due to
the plaintiff by Tyler and the company, because that sum was
unlawfully obtained from her by the misrepresentations of the
affairs of the company by Tyler, who was its president and
duly authorized agent, and because that sum went into the
treasury of, and was expended by, the company, is a distinct
VOL. cxLIf-7

'OTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

allegation that the $10,000 was justly due to her by Tyler.
The further averment that the plaintiff had a right to require
all the proper assets of the company to be gotten in and applied
to the liquidation of the debts due to her and others, is merely
an allegation that her first claim was to have the assets of the
company applied to pay her, and that beyond that she had a
claim against Tyler personally for the deficiency in such assetq.
There was a deficiency in the assets of the company, and the
decree against.Tyler was only for such deficiency.
The relief against Tyler was properly granted under the
prayer of the bill for general relief. It was consonant with
the facts set out in the bill as a ground of relief against Tyler
personally, and it was relief agreeable to the case made by the
bill. Story's Eq. Pl. § 40, etc.; Tayloe v. .Merckante' Fire Ins.
Co., 9 Bow. 390, 406. The bill could not have been successfully demurred to for multifariousness.
As to the assignments of error (3) and (4) we are of opinion,
without discussing the evidence in detail, that it sustains the
report of the master and the decree. The master reported
that on June 1, 1884, the company had lost its entire cashpaid stock and was largely in debt besides; that the formulas
and recipes purchased for $8486.84 were then and ever since
had been without value, or at least unsalable; and that, in a
word, the company was bankrupt. These findings were not
excepted to by Tyler or the company. A large part of the
money which Tyler had loaned to the company was repaid to
him out of the $10,000 paid by the plaintiff. Tyler's.letter to
the plaintiff of April 10, 1884, in saying, "The last dividend
that was deblared was a 7 per cent semi-annual. The fiscal
year ends on the first of June," was calculated naturally to
produce the impression upon the plaintiff's mind that the last
dividend was declared on the 1st of June, 1883, whereas the
last dividend was June 1, 1882. It must be inferred that, if
the plaintiff had been informed that no dividend had been declared since June 1, 1882, she would not have subscribed for
the stock. This suppression of a material fact, which Tyler
was bound in good faith to disclose, was equivalent to a false
representation. Stewart v. lfyominq Ranche Co., 128 U. S.

SMALE v. MITCHELL.
Statement of the Case.

383, 388. The effect of the fraud committed by Tyler enured
directly to his personal advantage. Not only was he, as a
large stockholder and salaried officer, benefited by the plaintiff's payment into the treasury of the company of the $10,000, but, as already shown, $6200 of that sum went directly
to his benefit, and the remainder, he testifies, went to the purchase of material and ordinary expenses of the company.
The latter amount enabled the company to continue paying to
Tyler his salary for some time longer.

Decree affirmed.

SMALE v. MITCHELL.
QUESTIONS CERTIFIED FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCrIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 1418. Argued January 14, 1892. - Decided February 1,1892.

The provision in the statute of Illinois, (Rev. Stats. c. 45, § 35,) that " at any
time within one year after a judgment, either upon default or verdict, in
the action of ejectment, the party against whom it is rendered, his heirs
or assigns, upon tVe payment of all costs recovered therein, shall be
entitled to have the judgment vacated, and a new trial granted in the
the cause" applies to such a judgment rendered in a Circuit Court of the
United States, sitting within that State, on a mandate from this court in
a case commenced in a court of the State of Illinois, and removed thence
to the Circuit Court of the United States.
Ex parte Dubuque & -Pacq#o Railroad, 1 Wall. 69, distinguished from this
cse.

THE court stated the case as follows:
The defendant in error, Charles H. Mitchell, as plaintiff,
commenced an action of ejectment in a state court of Illinois,
to recover certain described premises situated in that State,
against Jabez G. Smale and others, which action was afterwards on sufficient grounds removed to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois. Issue
being joined in the action, it was tried by the court without a
jury, and upon the facts found judgment was rendered on Feb-

