HORN SILVER MINING CO. v. NEW YORK.

305

Syllabus.

ruder the statute of limitations of Louisiana, for the purpose
of preventing a judgment, admitted to be valid, from being
prescribed within ten years from the time of its rendition.
The true construction of the statute of limitations in this respect, as well as the proper manner of reviewing the decision
of that question, if erroneous, was a matter of state law and
practice, in no way depending upon the Constitution of the
United States or upon any act of Congress.
In order to give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error to
review a judgment of a state court against a right claimed
under a statute of the United States, that right must be one of
the plaintiff in error, and not of a third person only. Giles
v. Little, 134 U. S. 645. The immunity or privilege of the
assignee in bankruptcy from being cited in these proceedings
could only be set up by the assignee himself, or by a person
claiming under him, and not by a person claiming under a
conveyance from the bankrupt before the bankruptcy. The
assignee, having appeared and answered to the petition for revival, and thereby submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the
state court, would have been bound by its judgment, if against
him. Winchester v. Heiskell, 119 U. S. 450; Ada'ms v. Cr'itten(fn, 133 U. S. 296. But he set up no title in himself, no judgment was rendered against him, and he has sued out no writ
of error. Section 505' of the Revised Statutes has therefore no
application to the case.
TFrit of eror dis-missedfor want of jurisZiction.

HORN SILVER MINING COMPANY v. NEW YORK

STATE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 48. Argued pnd submitted December 11, 1891.-Decided February 29; 1892.

The statute of New York of May 26, 1881, (Laws of 1881, c. 361,) imposing
a tax upon the corporate franchise or business of every corporation,
joint-stock company or association incorporated or organized under any
VOL. cxL-i-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
law of, the State or of any other State or county, to be computed by a
percentage updn its whole capital stock, and to be ascertained in the
manner provided by the act, when applied to a manufacturing corporation organized under the laws of Utah, and doing the greater part of its
business out of the State of New York, and paying taxes in.Illinois and
Utah, but doiug a small part of its business in the State of New York,
does not tax persons or property not within the State; nor regulate interstate commerce; nor take private property without just compensation; nor
deny to the corporation the equal protection of the laws; nor impose a
tax beyond the constitutional power of the State: and the remedy of the
corporation against hardship and injustice, if any has been suffered, must
be sought in the legislature of the State.
The cases respecting state taxation of foreign corporations reviewed.

Tm court stated the case as follows:
The defendant below, the plaintiff in error here, the Horn
Silver Mining Company, is a corporation created under the
laws of the Territory of Utah. The present action is brought
by the People of the, State of New" York, upon the allegation
that it was doing business within the State in 1881 and 1882,
to recover certain taxes alleged to be chargeable on its "corporate.franchise or business" for those years and the penalty
prescribed for their non-payment. in each year.
By the act of the legislature of New York,. approved May
26, 1881, (1 Sess. Laws, 1881, p. 481, c. 361,) amending a previous-act providing for levying taxes for the use of the State
upon certain corporations, joint-stock companies and associations, it was declared that every-corporation, joint-stock company, or association then or thereafter incorporated or organized under any law of the State, or of any other State or
country, and doing business in the State, with certain specified exceptions not important in this case, should be subject
to a tax "upon its corporate franchise or business," to be computed in a mode specified, which was by a certain percentage
upon its capital stock measured by the dividend on the par
value of that stook, or, where there were no dividends; or its
dividends were less than a certain percentage upon the par
value of the capital-stock, then according to-a certain percentage upon the actual value of the capital stock, during
the year.

HORN SILVER MINING CO. w. NEW YORK.

307

Statement of the Case.
The complaint in the action alleges the facts necessary to
charge the corporation under Dhis act for both years; that the
amount of tax due pursuant to its provisions for thie year
ending on the first day of November, 1881, was $7500, and
the additional sum of $1500 as a penalty for the delay of the
company in paying the tax for two years after it became due,
and that the amount of taxes due for the year ending on the
first day of November, 1882, was $30,000, with the further
sum of $3000 as a penalty of ten per centum for the delay of
the defendant in paying the same.
The defendant answered the various allegations of the complaint, denying them so far as they charge liability to the
people of New York, and setting up that it had been at all
times a manufacturing corporation organized and existing
under the laws of Utah; that it had never exercise& any
franchises or powers under the laws of New York; that its
capital stock of ten millions of dollars was issued in payment
for real estate in Utah and Illinois, which consists entirely of
mining property and improvements thereon, and a refinery;
that during the years ending November 1, 1881 and 1882, it
carried on in the State of New York the business of manufacturing bars of silver from Utah and Illinois into standard
bars; that said business constituted but a small portion of its
entire business, and was the only business carried on in the
State of New York, except its financial business and, correspondence; that its capital stock was only partially employed
in New York; and that it paid taxes both in Utah and
in Illinois. It insisted that the statute, upon which the action
was brought, was invalid and inoperative as to it because of
the facts set forth, and because it established an unjust and
unequal system of taxation, and fixed the amount of tax
wholly without regard to the extent of the corporate franchises exercised by it in the State, and without regard to the
amount of business done within the State, or the amount of
capital employed or the amount of its capital stock held in the
State, and the extent of the "protection and benefits derived
from its laws and agencies, and because it sought to tax property and persons not within the jurisdiction of the State or in

O-QCTOBER TERIM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

any way, subject to its authority, and violated the principles,
of equality and uniformity. It also insisted that the taxation
attempted was, in effect, the taking of private property without just compensation, the denial to defendant of the equal
protection of the laws, and a regulation of commerce among
the several States, and taxing property and business without
the jurisdiction of the State of New York. By consent of
parties the case was referred to a referee to hear and determine all the issues of law and fact therein. The referee found
that the defendant was a corporation created and organized
under the laws of the Territory of Utah, and was at all times
mentioned in the complaint, doing business in the State of
New York, and liable to be taxed on its corporate business
under the provisions of section 3 of the act of Newv York
above cited, He also found, in substance, that the stock and
capital of the defendant were properly appraised and the
amount of the tax was assessed in conformity with the provisions of that act, and that, accordingly, the sums above
mentioned, amounting to $41,250, were due; and he directed
a judgment to be entered therefor in favor ofthe plaintiff.
The referee also found that the defendant paid taxes, both
in the Territory of Utah and in the State of Illinois in the
years 1881 and 1882, and that the greater part of its business
was out of the State of New York as well as the greater part
of the capital used in its business.
Upon the findings of the referee judgment was entered in the
Supreme Court of the State for the amount reported, and the
case, being taken to the Court of Appeals, was there affirmed.
Being then. remitted to the Supreme Court and entered there,
the case was brought, on a writ of error, to this court.
_Mr. Julien T. Da)vies (with whom was X1. Edwcard Lygnan Short on the brief) for plaintiff in error.
I. The taxes in question are not license taxes imposed upon
a foreign corporation as a prerequisite of doing business in
the State of-New York. The Newv York statutes impose a tax
for revenue. Their purpose is to do this, and they are enacted

HORN SILVER MIN ING CO. v. NEW YORK.

309

Argument fdr Plaintiff in Error.

under the taxing power. They are not license laws, enacted
under the police power of the State. These taxes are not the
price of a permit to do business within the State, the payment
of which is a condition precedent to the transaction of such
business. They are to be judged therefore as tax laws. The
title of the acts of 1880 and 1881 is,
"An Act to provide for raising taxes for the use of the
State upon certain corporations," etc. The Constitution of the
State of New York makes the title of an act in some cases of
controlling importance, and it is held to be a "legitimate" subject for consideration in "determining the intent of special
legislative action." TFestchester Fire Ins. Co. v. Davenport,
91 N. Y. 514, 585.
The language of Mr. Justice Blatchford in Philadelpia
FireAssociation v. 2lTew YTork, 119 U. S. 110, 119, shows distinctly the difference between a license fee which is a prerequisite to doing business for the future and a tax. "This
Pennsylvania corporation came into the State of New York
to do business, by the consent of the State, under this act of
1853, with a license granted for a year, and has received such
license annually, to run for a year. It is within the State for
any given year under such license, and subject to the conditions prescribed by statute. The State, having the power to
exclude entirely, has the power to change the conditions of
admission at any time for the future, and to impose as a condition the payment of a new tax, or a further tax, as a license
fee. If it imposes such license fee as a prerequisite for the
future, the foreign corporation, until it pays such license fee,
is not admitted within the State or within its jurisdiction. It
is outside, at the threshold, seeking admission, with consent
not yet given."
This law, therefore, can obtain no support from any assumed
principle or rule of law that -any burden may be imposed upon
a foreign corporation as a condition of doing business in any
State.
The legislature could not, because of its power to impose a
burden upon foreign corporations as a .condition of doing
business, take money or property from a foreign "corporation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

already lawfully doing business there, by an absolute and unconditional demand. It will hardly be disputed that a corporation created by one State may do business in another
by virtue of interstate comity, unless prohibited by the law or
established policy of the latter. Cowell v. 8.prings Co., 100
U. S. 55; Christian Union v. Yount, 101 U. S. 352.
II. The taxes in question, in the view of the court of appeals
'of the State of New York, were laid upon the business of the
Horn Silver Mining Company transacted in the State of New
York. That business consisted: (1) In selling to the United
States, at its Assay Office in the city of New York, the silver
bullion bats refined in Chicago from base bullion sent there
from Utah, where the ore is mined and smelted into base
bullion. (2) In transmitting a large part of the proceeds of
the sales in New York to Utah. (3) In retaining the remainder of the proceed1s of sales in the city of New York,
loaning them and keeping them in bank until required for the
payment of dividends, and then paying dividends in New
York therefrom. (4) In maintaining an office for officers and
directors.
The taxes in question, then, if the cbnstruction of the Court
of Appeals be accepted, fall upon the business of the Horn
Silver Mining Company done in the State of New York during the years 1881 and 1882, measured by its entire capital
stock taken at a valuation in the case of the tax for the year
1881, and measured by the rate of annual dividends multiplied
upon the entire capital stock in the case of the tax for the
year 1882. As that business is principally and primarily the
business of importing silver -bullion into the State of New
York and there selling it, all other business being merely incidental thereto, the taxes in question fall upon transactions of
that character.
III. The business of bringing bars of silver from Chicago
to New York 'and there selling them is interstate commerce.
Inasmuch as interstate commerce, consisting in the transportation, purchase, sale and exchange of commodities; is.national
in its character,'and must be governed by.a uniform system,
Congress, so long as it does not pass any. law to reglate it or

HORN SILVER MINING CO. v. NEW YORK

311

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

allowing the States so to do, thereby indicates its will that
such commerce shall be free and untrammelled." "Leisy v.
Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; .2lobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S.,691;
Ball v. UJnited States, 10 Wall. 557; Brown v. Xarylan,
12 Wheat. 419.
IV. The statutes in question, regulate interstate commerce
in so far as they tax plaintiff in error for its business done in
the State of New York during the years 1881 and 1882, and
therefore are invalid to sustain the .taxes for which judgment
has been recovered. Hall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485; Pemblina
ining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 181; 'FVorfolk &
Ifestern Railroad V Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114; Cooper
.2famfacturing Co. v. Ferguson,113 U. S. 727; iforan v. Vew
Orl4ans, 112 U. S. 69; Brown v..Xaryland,12 Wheat. 419;
Philadely)tda & Soutiern Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania,
122 U. S. 326; Corson v. Maryland, 120 U. S. 502; Fargov.
.Mic/dgan, 121 U. S. 230; Zyng v. Af!ichigan, 135 U. S. 161.
V. If the taxes in question are not laid upon the business
of plaintiff in error in New York they are laid upon all its
business or upon all its capital, and therefore either regulate
commerce among the States or effect extra territorial taxation
and are invalid pro tanto. A tax on capital stock at its actual
value is a general tax on the property of the corporation.
Bank of Commerce v. New York City, 2 Black, 620; Bank
Tax Case, 2 Wall. 200, 208.
As a valuation of the entire capital stock of plaintiff in error
is the just and natural measure of either all the business of the
company, or of all its property, it follows that the taxes in
question fall either upon all its business or upon all its property.
The plaintiff in error is not endeavoring to escape its fair
share of the burden of taxation. For ten years it has been
trying to pay the State of New York its taxes upon its business transacted within that State, measured by the capital
actually'employed within the State, or to state the effect of
the statute more accurately, upon its property situated within
the State of New York. The question now presented in this
case is whether New York, and, therefore, every State in thc

OCTOBER TER-M, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Union, can, under guise of taxing business that has been transacted within its -border, (not of imposing a license tax,) ts5x all
the property of a foreign corporation wheresoever situated.
This tax is a property tax, and nothing else, in its operation
:upon foreign corporations. The recent decisions of this court
establish that proposition beyond question in dealing with
statutes with identical provisions. TMeste rn Union Telegraph
Co. v. ifassdehusetts,125 U. S. 530; Pullman's Car Co. v.
Pennsylvania,141 U. S. 18; Xassachusetts v. Western Union
Telegraph Co., 141 U. S. 40.
VI. The statutes in question should be confined in their
effect to the property of plaintiff within the jurisdiction of the
State of New York.
If these statutes be declared effective only to tax the capital
of the plaintiff in error within the State of New York, they
will be confined in their operation to a subject within the taxing power of this State, and restrained from operating upon'
subjects beyond the exercise of this power. Telegraph Co. v.
Texas, 105 U. S. 460; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. MA[assachusetts, 125 U. S. 530; Ratterman v. Western Union Telegraph
Co., i27 U. S. 411; AXassachksetts v. WeTstern Union Telegraph
Co., 141 U. S. 40.
VII. The affirmance of the judgment against plaintiff in
error would be a deprivation by the*State of New York of the
property of the plaintiff in error without due process of law,
and a denial of the equal protection of the laws, contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States.
f! r. Clarles F. Tabor, Attorney General- of the State of
New York, submitted on his brief.
Mm. JusTiE FiELD delivered the opinion of the court.
A corporation being the mere creature of the legislature, its
rights, privileges and powers are dependent solely upon the
terms of its charter. Its creation (except where the corporation is sole) is the investing of two or more persons with the

HORN *SILVER-AIINING CO. v. NEW YORK.

"313

Opinion of the Court.

capacity to act as a single individual, with a common name,
and the privilege of succession in its members without dissolution, and with a limited individual liability. The right and
privilege, or the franchise, as it may be termed, of being a
corporation, is of great value to its members, and is considered
as property separate and distinct from the p operty which the
corporation itself may acquire. According to the law of most
States this franchise or privilege of being a corporation is
deemed personal property, and is subject to separate taxation.
The right of the States to thus tax it has been recognized by
this court and the state courts in instances without number.
It was said in Delaware Railroad Tax,- 18 Wall. 206, 231, that
"the State may impose taxes upon the corporation as an entity
existing under its laws, as well as upon the capital stock of
the corporation or its separate corporate property. And the
manner in which its value shall be assessed;'and the rate of
taxation, however arbitrary or capricious, are mere matters of
legislative discretion;" except; we may add, as that discretion is
controlled by the organic law of the State. And, as we there
said also, "it is not for us to suggest in any case that a more
equitable mode of assessment or rate of taxation might be
adopted than tile one prescribed by the legislature of the
State; our only concern is with the validity of the tax; all
else lies beyond the domain of our jurisdiction."
The granting of the rights and privileges which constitute
the franchises of a corporation being a matter resting entirely
within the control of the legislature, to be exercised in its good
pleasure, it may be accompanied with any such conditions as
the legislature may deem most suitable to the public interests
and policy. It may impose as a condition of the grant, as
well as, also, of its continued exercise, the payment of a s )ecific sum to the State each year, or a portion of the profits or
gross receipts of the -corporation, and may prescribe such mode
in which the sum shall be ascertained as may be deemed convenient and just. There is no constitutional inhibition against
the legislature adopting any mode to arrive at the sum which
it will exact as a condition of the creation of the corporation
or of its continued existence. There can be, th-refore, no pos-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

sible objection to the validity of the tax prescribed by the
statute of New York, so far as it relates to its own corporations. Nor can there be any greater objection to a similar tax
upon a foreign corporation doing business by its p.ermission
within the State. As to a foreign corp6ration -and all corporations in States other than the State of its creation are
deemed to be foreign corporations- it can claim a right to do
business in another State, to any extent, only subject to the
conditions imposed by its laws.
As said in Pauil v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 181, "the recognition of its existence even by other States, and the enforcement of its contracts made therein, depend purely upon the
comity of those States- a comity which is never extended
where the existence of the corporation or the exercise of its
powers is prejudicial to their interests or repugnant to their
policy. Having no absolute right of recognition in other
States, but depending for such recognition and the enforcement of its contracts upon their assent, it follows, as a matter
of -course, that such assent may be granted upon such terms
and conditions as those States may think proper to impose.
They may exclude the foreign corporation entirely; they may
restrict its business to particular localities, or they may exact
such security for the performance of its contracts with their
citizens as in their judgment will best promote the public
interest. The whole matter rests in their discretion."
This doctrine has been so frequently declared by this court
that it must be deemed no longer a matter of discussion, if
any question can evet be considered at rest.
Only tw6 exceptions or qualifications have been attached to
it in, all the, numerous adjudications in which the subject has
been considered, since the judgment of this court was anpounced more than half a century ago in Bank of Augusta v.
Earle, 13 Pet. 519. One of these qualifications is that theState cannot .exclude from its limits a corporation engaged in
interstate or foreign commerce, established by the decision in
Pensacola Telegraph Co. v. 'Wester Unio, Telegraph Co., 96
U. S. 1, 12. The other limitation on the power of the State
is, where the corporation is in the employ of the general gov-

HORN SILVER MINIXG CO. v. NEW YORK.

315

Opinion of the Court.

eminent, an obvious. exception, first stated, we think, by the
late Mr. Justice Bradley in *tockton v. Baltimore & New
York- Railroad, 32 Fed. Rep. 9, 14. As that learned justice
said: "If Congress should emplby a corporation of ship-build,
ers to construct a man-of-war, they would have the right to
purchase the necessary timber and iron in any State of the
Union." And this court, in citing this passage, added, "without the permission and against the prohibition of the State."
Per bbia f'inin' Co. v. Pem syl ania, 125 U. S. 181, 186.
Having the absolute power of excluding the foreign corporation the State may, of course, impose such conditions upon
-permitting the corporation to do business within its limits ag
it may judge expedient; and it may make the grant or privilege dependent upon the payment of a specific license tax, or a
sum proportioned to the amount of its capital. No individual
member of the corporation, or the corporation itself, can call
in quesiion the validity of any exaction which the State may
require for the grant of its privileges. It does not lie in any
foreign corporation to complain that it is subjected to the
same law with the domestic corporation. The counsel for the
appellant objects that the statute of New York is to be treated
as a tax law, and not as a license to the corporation for permission to do business in the State. Conceding such to be the
case we do not perceive how it in any respect affects the validity of the tax. However it may be regarded, it is the condition upon which a foreign corporation can do business in the
State, and in doing such business it puts itself under the law
of the State, however that may be characterized.
The only question therefore open to serious consideration in
this case is one of fact: Did the Horn Silver Mining Company
do business as a corporation within the State ? The referee
found such to be the fact, as a conclusion from many probative circumstances in the case. That finding was never set
aside, but stands approved by the courts of New York. If the
correctness of the conclusion could be questioned, and held not
justified by the facts in evidence -and they should be considered as showing only transactions of interstate commerce, and
not business in the State independently of such commerce -it

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

would be impossible to overcome the force of the answer of
the defendant in which it alleges' that in the years 1881 and
1882 it was a manufacturing company carrying on manufactures within the State of New York. The admission is conclusive that the corporation was engaged in business in the
State in those years, though, we are clear, not in such a business as rendered it a manufacturing corporation exempt from
the tax prescribed by the statute.
To dispose of -he position that the plaintiff in error was a
manufacturing corporation, and therefore excepted from taxation: under the statutes cited, it is only necessary to refer to
the articles of association of the company. By them it appears that it was organized to conduct the business of buying,
selling, leasing and operating .iines and mining claims in the
Territory of Utah, and smelting, reducing and refining works
there and elsewhere; of conducting a general mining, milling
and smelting business in all its branches, including buying and
selling mineral ores and bullion; of carrying on a general mercantile business by buying and selling such goods, merchandise, stores and miners' supplies as are usually kept in and
required by the wants of a mining camp or settlement; of
building, and operating all such roads, tramways and transportation routes as may be convenient in transporting the
products of its business or procuring supplies; of purchasing,
hiring and holding all such real and personal property, wherever situate, as may be required in carrying on any of its business, and, when no longer required for business purposes, of
leasing, selling or exchanging the same; and generally to do
all acts and things incidental to a general mining business, or
to any of the aforesaid pursuits. They also declare that it was
primarily formed for the immediate purpose of working and
developing the estate, property and premises known as the
Horn silver mine, and the treatment and reduction of the
ores and metals therein contained. There is in the business
thus detailed nothing that would characterize the corporation
as a manufacturing company, and if no proper sense was. it
engaged in a manufacturing business within the State. The
bullion taken by the company from its mines was shipped to

I014N SILVER MINNG CO. v. NEW YORK.

317

Opinion of the Court.

Chicago, and, after being xefined and the silver separated from
the lead, it was forwarded to the United States assay office in
the city of Nev York, where it had an office, not for occa-sional business transactions, but where its transfer books were
kept, its dividends declared and paid, and other business done
by it such as is usually performed by corporations where their
principal office of business is situated. It is true, the greater
part of the business of the company was done out of the State,
and the greater part of its capital Was also without it, but the
statute of New York does not reqiire that the whole business
of a foreign corporation shall be done within the State in
order to subject it to the taxing power of the State. It
makes, in that respect, no difference between home corporations
and foreign corporations, as to the franchise or business of the
corporation upon which the tax is levied, provided it does business within the State, as such corporation.
There seems to be a hardship in estimating the amount of the
tax upon the corporation, for doing business within the State,
according to the amount of its business or capital without the
State. That is a matter, however, resting entirely in the control of the State, and not a matter of Federal law, and with
which, of course, this court can in no way interfere.
Since this tax was levied the law of the State has been
altered, and now the tax upon foreign corporations doing business in the State is estimated by the consideration only of the
capital employed within the State. It is said that against
nearly all other foreign corporations, except this one, the
taxes upon their franchises have been computed upon the basis
of the capital employed within the State; but as to that we
can only repeat what was said in the Court of Appeals of the
State, that, if this be true, the defendant may have reason to
complain of unjust discrimination and may properly appeal
for relief to the legislature of the State, but that it is .not
within the power of the court to grant any relief however
great the hardship upon it.
The extent of the tax is a matter purely of state regulation,
and any interference with it is beyond the jurisdiction of this
court. The objection that it operates as a direct interference

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

with interstate commerce we do not think tenable. The tax
is not levied upon articles imported, nor is there any impediment to their importation. The products of the mine can be
brought into the State and sold there without taxation, and
they can be exhibited there for sale in any office or building
obtained for that purpose; the tax is levied only upon the
franchise or business of the company.
Judgment tflnmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

CHANDLER v. POMEROY.
APPEAT

FROM THE cIRcuIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

STATES FOR

No. 1343. Submitted November 17, 1891.-Decided February 29,1892.
In order to justify a court in refusing to enforce a settlement of a quarrel
between the members of a large family, growing out of disputes about
the wills of their father and other members of the family, and out of
money transactions between brothers and sisters, upon the ground that
the settlement was obtained by.misrepresentation, active or covert, or that
it failed to express the real intent of the parties, the testimony should
establish the fact clearly and satisfactorily; and in this case it is not
so established.

THIS .was a bill in equity filed September 4, 1888, by the
appellant Chandler, as executor and trustee under the last will
and testament of George P. Pomeroy, deceased, against Josephine Pomeroy, Julia Pomeroy Morrison, her husband, William F. Morrison, and Alfred Mills, surviving executor of the
last will and testament of, George Pomeroy, father of the said
George P. Pomeroy, to enforce a certain agreement of settlement between George P. Pomeroy and his sisters, devisees of
the estate of George Pomeroy. The bill was subsequently
dismissed as to the defendant William F. Morrison, and about

