OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the .Case.

prudent and honest management would, within the rates prescribed, secure to the bondholders their interest, and to the
stockholders reasonable dividends. While the protection of
vested rights of property is a supreme duty of the courts, it
has not come to this, that the legislative power rests subservient to the discretion of any railroad corporation which may,
by exorbitant and unreasonable salaries, or in some other improper way; transfer its earnings into iThat it is pleased to call
"operating expenses."
We do not mean to insinuate aught against the actual management of the affairs of this company. The .silence of the
record gives us no information, and we have no knowledge
outside -thereof, and no suspicion of wrong. Our suggestion is
only to indicate how easily courts may be misled into doing
grievous wrong to the public, and how careful they should be
to not declare legislative acts unconstitutional upon agreed
and general statements, and without the fullest disclosure of
all material facts.
______

Judgment qlrmed.

BRIGGS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 722. Subbmitted January 4, 1892.-

Decided February 29, 1892.

During the civil war two citizens of the United States, residing in loyal
States could make a valid contract for the sale or mortgage of cotton
growing on a plantation within one of the insurgent States, and such a
contract would pass existing cotton on the plantation, and also crops to
be subsequently raised thereon.
In Kentucky the common law rule prevails that a sale of personal property
is complete, and title passes as between vendor and vendee, when the
terms of transfer are agreed upon, without actual delivery.
The contract in this case for the sale of cotton growing and to be grown
did not come within the statute of "frauds, and the only question to be
decided is whether it was a contract of sale or a contract of mortgage.
The captured and abandoned property act was a surrender by the United,
States of its right as a belligerent to appropriate property of a particular kind taken in the enemy's country, and belonging to a loyal citizen.

THE court stated the case as follows:

BRIGGS v. U NITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Court of Claims, dismissing the petition of the appellant, praying judgment for
the amount of the proceeds of certain cotton, the property of
his testator, which was seized by the forces of the United
States and sold and the proceeds paid into the Treasury. The
facts of the case, briefly stated, are as follows:
Charles S. Morehead was a citizen of Kentucky at the
breaking out of the late civil war. He was a man of distinction in that State, and had once been its governor. He was a
lawyer by profession, and before and until the war practised
law in partnership with C. M,. Briggs. In the spring of 1861
he was the owner of two plantations near Egg's Point, in
Mississippi, and at the opening of the war he was on the plantations; but some time in the following May or June, when a
prolonged struggle seemed inevitable, he left one of the plantations in charge of an overseer and the other in charge of his
son, and returned to Kentucky. INot long afterwards he was
arrested and confined in Fort Warren as a suspected rebel,
because of his sympathy with the Confederate cause, but,
upon taking the oath of allegiance to the United States, he
was, in February, 1862, released. On the 18th of April folIowing he sold to C. M. Briggs, his former partner, by a bill
of sale in writing, all the cotton on his plantations, baled and
imbaled, gathered and ungathered, and' all that should be
naised in 1862, to satisfy certain indebtedness to him and to
secure him for certain debts which he was under obligation to
pay for Morehead. The bill of sale was as follows:
"For and in consideration of 'money loaned.and advanced
heretofore by C. Al. Briggs, and further valuable considerations by way of suretyship for me.by said Briggs, I hereby
sell and transfer to said C: M. Brigcs all the cotton on my
two plantations in Mississippi, near Egg's Point and Greenville. Said cotton so sold embraces all that I may have, bared
and unbaled, gathered and ungathered. This is intended to
cover all cotton that I have now or may have this year on
said two plantations, supposed to be about two thousand bales.
C. S. MOREHEAD."
"April 18, 1862.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.Statement of the Case.

The bill of sale was delivered to C. k. Briggs on the day of
its execution, and at the time both parties were citizens and
residents of Kentucky.
The agents left in charge of the plantations in Mississippi
superintended the raising of cotton on them, and had general
direction of the affairs of the plantations in the years 1861,
1862 and 1863. The son of Morehead sold some of the cotton
in order to obtain money to carry on the plantations, and
some of the sales were made to an agent of the Confederate
government; but it does not appear that Morehead gave anydirections to his agents as to the disposition of any of the cotton, or had any communication with them in 1862 or 1863.
None of the cotton belonging to Morehead which was on
the plautationsat the time of the sale to Briggs came into the
possession of the United States; all that came into their possession was raised subsequently. In 1862, after the sale, the
agents left in charge of the plantations raised a crop of cotton,
a portion of which, in December, 1862, or in January, 1863,
was -hauledto Wilson's Burn, a place then used for the storage
of cotton belonging to, or intended to be sold to, the Confederate government, and also for the storage of the cotton 6f
individuals. The cotton was marked by the agents, "C. S.
A.," in order to save it from destruction by Confederate soldiers, but it was not so marked by direction of .Morehead.
Whilst' the cotton was there three hundred and eighty bales
of it were, in March,'1863, taken by Captain Osband of the
Fourth Illinois Cavalry, acting under orders of General Grant,
to Worthington's Landing on the Mississippi River, where it'
was intermingled with other cotton from adjacent plantations,
and shipped to Memphis, Tennessee, and there turned over to
Captain Fort, Assistant Qjtartermaster General of the United
States Army. The whole amount of cotton received by him
was twenty-one hundred and thirty bales, which, after being
rebaled and thereby reduced to twenty-one hundred and eleven
bales, was sold by him, and the proceeds accounted for to the
United States, amounting to $422,125.7O. The cotton, including the three hundred and eighty bales mentioned above,
which came from the plantations of Morehead, amounted to

BRIGGS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

four hundred and fifty-five bales, and their proportional part
of the proceeds was $91,000. There is a discrepancy between
this amount and that which is subsequently claimed in the
amended petition. There is also a discrepancy between the
nmnber of bales stated in the findings to have been received
by the Quartermaster General and the number mentioned in
the act of Congress of June 4, 1888. But these discrepancies
are slight, and do not affect the questions considered.
The exact state of the indebtedness from Morehead to
Briggs, at the time of the execution of the bill of sale, does
not appear. Briggs had paid eight or ten thousand dollars for
Morehead, and the latter had collected Briggs's portion bf a
fee amounting to five thbusand dollars, and was in the habit
of borrowing money from him during the continuance of their
law partnership, until the commencement of the war. It does
not appear that any definite settlement was hdd between them.
C. X. Briggs having died, his brother, James A. Briggs, was
on the 15th of July, 1875, appointed executor of his estate by
the county court of 'Jefferson County, in Kentucky, of which
county the deceased was at the time of his death a citizen and
resident. He accepted the trust and qualified by taking the
necessary oath a-4d executing the required bond.
By a, special act of Congress, passed on the 4th of June,
1888, (25 Stat. 1075, c. 348,) the Court of Claims was given,
ubject to certain conditions hereafter named, like jurisdiction
to hear and determine the claim of the legal representatives
of C. M. Briggs for the proceeds of four hundred and fiftyfive bales of cotton, stated in the act to be then in the Treasury of the United States, and alleged to have been owned in
whole or in part by the deceased, as was given to that court
by the acts of March.12, 1863, and July 2, 1864, upon petition
to be filed in that court within two years from the passage of
the act, notwithstanding any statute of limitations to the contrary. One of the conditions named was that on a preliminary inquiry the court should find that Briggs was in fact
loyal to the United States government, and that the assignment to him from Morehead was bona fide; the sale from
Morehead being thus designated in the act. A further con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

dition was, that if the court should find that the alleged
assignment from M[orehead to Briggs, under which Briggs
claimed the cottbn, was intended only as security for indebtedness and against contingent liabilities assumed for Morehead, then judgment should be rendered for such portion of
the proceeds of the said cotton as would satisfy the debts and
claims. It was also provided that the judgment should not
be paid out of the general fund in the Treasury arising from
the sale of captured and abandoned property, but should be
paid out of the special fund charged to and accounted for by
Captain Fort, Assistant Quartermaster, arising from. the sale
of the twenty-two hundred and nine -bales of cotton received
by him, with which claimant's cotton was intermingled; the
claimant to receive only the proportionatb part which his
cotton might bear to the net proceeds accounted foy by
Captain Fort.
The executor accordingly filed his petition5 in whi6h, as
amended, he alleges that, of the net proceeds of the cotton
accounted for by Captain Fort, there remains in the Treasury,
after deducting the payments properly chargeable to the same,
and which have been paid out to various- claimants on judgments of the Court of Claims, the sum of $138,523.92, being
the net proceeds of six hundred and twenty-one bales of cotton, for which no claim has ever been made on which judgment has been rendered,' or payment obtained from the
Treasury. And the petitioner -alleges that of this sum he is
entitled to recover his pro rata share, corresponding to his
four hundred and fifty-five bales, amounting in the aggregate
to $101,794.57, for which he prays judgment.
A prelimiiiary inquiry was had by the Court of Claims as
to the loyalty of' the testator,'C. M1.Briggs, during the war,
and as to the bonaftde character of -the assignment to him by
Morehead; and it was found that the testator was in fact
loyal to the United States government and that the assignment to him by Morehead of April 18, 1862, was bonaXcde.
The case being thus freed from these preliminary inquiries,
the only questions remaining for consideration .were, first, the
effect of that assignment in passing title to the cotton raised

BRIGGS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

on the plantations and seized by the forces of the United
States arid sold; second, the right of the owner or assignee
to the proceeds received, he being loyal to the government
of the United States during the war; and, third, the amount of
the claims of the deceased against Morehead payable out of
such proceeds.
The court held that cotton raised in the Confederate States
during the war was hostile property which the United States
had the right to and did apply to their own uses while it continued; that the fact that the owner or assignee of the cotton
was a loyal'man during the war did not affect the right of the
United States to thus apply it, or the proceeds of its sale, to
their own use; .andthat therefore no liability rested upon the
government of the United States to account for the property,
or its proceeds when sold, to the owner or assignee. The
petition was accordingly dismissed, (25 C. Cl. 126,) and from
the decree of dismissal the case is brought to this court on
appeal.
.21&. Phlip B. Thompson, 7r., and Mr. W. J. Noberley for
*appellant.
1fr. Assistant Attorney General .Afaury for appellee.
Miz. JusTic-

FrsaL,

having stated* thie case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Though at the time the sale, or assignment, as it is termed
in the act of Congress, was made of the cotton on the plantations in Mississippi, or to be raised thereon during the year
1862, the late civil war was flagrant, there was no rule of law
arising from the existence of hostilities between the different
sections of the country which in any respect impaired the
validity of the transaction. Both parties were then residents
and citizens of Kentucky, and no agreement was made for the
transportation and delivery of the cotton across the lines
separating the insurrectionary States from those which maintained their loyalty and adhered to the Union. Morehead,
the owner, was in the spring of 1861, at the commencement

OCTOBER TERM,' 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

of the war, on the plantations In Mississippi; and in May or
June following, when a prolonged struggle seemed inevitable,
he placed one of them in charge of his son and the other in
charge of an overseer, and returned to Kentucky. It does not
appear that ever afterwards during the continuance of the
war he had any communication with either. They superintended the plantations, and in 1862 raised a crop of cotton
thereon, the greater part of which, if not the whole, was afterwards seized by the forces of the trnited States, placed in the
custody of an assistant quartermaster of the army, sold by
'hin and the proceeds paid over or accounted 'for to the
Treasury of the Jnited States.
In Conrad v. Waplms, 96 U. S. 279, 286, we said of a sale
of real property within the Confederacy between two persons residents there during the war:
"The character of the parties as rebels or enemies did not
deprive them of the right to contract withi and to sell to each
other. As between themselves, all the ordinary business
between people of the same community in buying, selling
and exchanging property, movable and immovable, could be
lawfully carried on, except in cases where it was expressly
forbidden by the United States, or where it would have been
inconsistent with or have tended to weaken their authority.
It was commercial intercourse and correspondence between
citizens of one belligerent and those of the other, the engaging in traffic between them, which were forbidden by the
laws of war and by the President's proclamation of non-intercourse. So long as the war existed; all intercourse between
them inconsistent with actual hostilities was unlawful. But
commercial intercourse and correspondence of the citizens of
the enemy's country among themselves were neither forbidden nor interfered with, so long as they did not impair
or tend to impair the supremacy of the national authority or
the rights of loyal citizens. No people could long exist without exchanging commodities, and, of course, without buying,
selling and contracting. And no belligerent has ever been so
imperious and arbitrary as to attempt to forbid the transaction of ordinary business by its enemies among theimselves.

BRIGGS v. UNITED STATES.

353

Opinion of the Court.

No principle of public law and no conaideration of public
policy could be subserved by any edict to that effect; and its'
enforcement, if made, would be impossible."
The property in this case was real estate, but we do not
perceive how that fact would alter the validity of a transaction, if it could be affected by the character'of the parties.
If residents of the enemy's country may contract for property
situated within it, there would seem to be no objection to
similar transactions by persons residing outside of the Confederate lines and adhering to the national government, so
long as no intercourse or connection is kept up with the. inhabitants of the enemy's country. As stated in the case from
which we have cited, it was commercial intercourse and correspondence between citizens of one belligerent and the other,
and the engagement in traffic between them, leading to the
transmission of money or property from one belligerent country to the other, which was forbidden.
There was, therefore, nothing in the sale of the cotton on
the plantations, or of cotton to be raised thereon, there being
no agreement respecting its movement across the border of
the contending sections, which brought the trangaction within
the prohibitions of any rule of international law or the
proclamations of the President of the United States in 1861.

(12 Stat. 257, 1262; 13 Stat. 731.)
Those who may desire to examine the decisions of the
courts as to the nature and extent of the prohibitions upon
transactions between subjects of countries at war, or between
subjects of the same country respecting property situated in
the enemy's country, will find in the opinion of the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in Kershaw v. .elsey, 100
Mass. 561, the subject ably and exhaustively considered, with
an analysis of the most important decisions of the English
and American courts.
"The sale not being open to objection as relating to property
within the hostile territory, the question arises whether it was
sufficient to jass the existing cotton on the plantations and
crops to be subsequently raised thereon; and on that question
we have no doubt. The crop which was afterward seized by
VOL. cxLm-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the forces of the United States was not then in existence, but
from the fact that it was raised during the year we conclude
it was already planted; though if otherwise, the fact would
not be material. The sale would take effect the moment the
crop appeared. In Butt v. Ellett, 19 Wall. 544, the question
was as to the effect of an instrument purporting to be a
mortgage of a crop, the seed of which had not been sown.
A plantation in Mississippi was leased for one year for $3500,
for which the lessee gave his note, and to. secure it embodied
in the lease a mortgage of all the crops raised on the plantations during a certain designated year. It was held that the
mortgage clause could not operate as a mortgage, because the
crops to which it related were not in existence, but that when
they grew the lien attached and bound them effectually from
that time.
In Andrew v. .Neweoml, 32 N. Y. 417, 421, the Court of
Appeals of :New York held that in the case of crops to be
sown, the title vests potentially from the time of the bargain,
and actually as soon as the subject arises. The court cited
several cases, going back as far as the time of Chief Justice
Hobart, to sustain this doctrine, observing that they sufficiently showed that crops to be raised were an exception to
the general rule that title to property not in existence cannot
comes into being.
be affected so as to vest the title when it,
The delivery of the crops was not essential to pass the title
as between Morehead and Briggs. The law on the subject of
the sale of personal property does not require impossibilities,
as would be a delivery in a case, of that kind. The cotton
was not at the time grown, and even if the sale be deemed
incomplete until the actual appearance of the crop, it could
not then be removed from the soil for delivery; besides, it
was within the limits of a recognized enemy's country, and
any attempt to transport it to the Union side for delivery
would have been unlawful.
By the common law a sale of personal property is complete
and the title passes as between vendor and vendee when the
terms of transfer are agreed upon, without actual delivery.
In Simimons v. iwift, 5 B. & C. 857, 862, it was so held by

BRIGGS v.

NITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

the Court of Kin 's Bench, Justice Bailey using this language:
"Generally speaking, where a bargain is made for the purchase of goods, and nothing is said about payment or delivery, the property passes immediately, so as to cast upon the
purchaser all future risk, if nothing further remains tobe done
to the goods, although he cannot take them away without
paying the price."
In G-m our v. Sup pe, 11 Moore P. C. 551, 566, the Privy
Council, in giving its judgment, said: "By the law of England, by a contract for the sale of specific ascertained goods,
the property innnediately vests in the buyer, and a right to
the price in the seller, Unless it can be shown that such was
not the intention of the parties."
In Kentucky, where the sale in this case was made, the
common law rule prevails. In fillis v. Millis, 6 Dana, 48,
the Court of Appeals of that State said: "So soon as a bargain
of sale of personal goods is struck the contract becomes absolute
without actual payment or delivery, and the property and risk
of accident to the goods vest in the buyer."
Nor was the sale void within the statute of frauds. There
was no creditor or purchaser who could question the transfer
of title to the vendee. The government stood in no such
relation and could raise no such objection. It had no preexisting demand or equity against the property. All the rights
of the government resulted from capture.
And this brings us to the consideration of the most important question in the case: Whether the United States acquired
title to the property by its capture, and can, therefore, disregard the claim of ownership by the testator or petitioner, and
treat the cotton as property confiscated to their use. The
Court of Claims held that the United States rightfully appropriated the property and its proceeds, and were not under
any obligation to account for them to the owner or his representative.
It proceeded upon the doctrine that the Confederate States
and the States which adhered to the Union were engaged in a
civil war, having such proportions as to be attended with the
incidents of an international war, and that therefore the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

States could treat all property within the Confederate lines as
enemy's property, and in the exercise of their belligerent
rights seize and appropriate to their own use -any of it which
could be of service to them in the prosecution of the war; and
that the property which was most beneficial to the Confederacy in furnishing funds was cotton, and it was for that
reason particularly sought by the national forces for capture.
The .Court of
iims recognized the doctrine, also, that the
right of captu. extended to the products of the soil, whether
owned by citizens of the Confederacy or strangers to both
belligerents, and that the capture of movable property within
the Confederacy transferred the- title when reduced to firm
possession; and it therefore held that when the cotton for the
proceeds of which this action is brought was captured by the
national forces and sold and the proceeds paid into the treasury of the United States, the title to the property and proceeds passed absolutely to the general gbvernment.
This decision of the Court of Claims would have been correct, and been sustained, had the government of the United
States confined its action simply to the enforcement of its
rightful powers as a belligerent, and had not surrendered its
rights as a belligerent to appropriate property of a particular
kind taken in the enemy's country, belonging to a loyal citizen.
In Brown v. UJnited States, 8 Cranch, 110, 122, 123, the
court said that it was conceded that war gives to the sovereign full right to take the persons and confiscate the property
of the enemy wherever found, and observed that the mitigations of this rigid rule, which the humane and wise policy of
modern times had introduced into practice, might more or less
affect the exercise of this right, but could not impair the right
itself.
Substantially the same thing was said in Young v. United
State8, 97 U. S. 39, 60: "All property," was the language
of the court in that case, "within enemy territory is in law
enemy property, just as all persons in the same territory are
enemies. A neutral, owning property within the enemy's
lines, holds it as enemy property, subject to the laws of war;
and, if it is hostile property, subject to capture."

BRIGGS v. UNITED STA.TES.
Opinion of the Court.

1,41 u anoher case, that of -Mrs. Alexander's COottnm, 2
Wall. 404, 419, this court said that "this rule, as to property
on lahd, has received very important qualifications from usage,
from the reasonings of enlightened publicists, and from judicial 4ecisions. It may now be regarded as substantially restricted ' to special cases dictated by the necessaiy operation
of the war,' and as excluding, in general, 'the seizure of the
private property of pacific persons for the sake of gain.'"
The circumstances in which the late war originated, and the
fact that within the Confederate lines there were multitudes
of people whowere sincerely attached to the government of
the Union and desired its success, gave ample reason to the
Federal government for a modification of the harsh rules of
war in regard to the capture of property on land, so as not to
bring within the same calamity friend and foe. It was a desire
to ameliorate as much as possible the exercise of the necessary
.belligerent right of capture of property within the rebel lines,
in its application to the property of persons thus friendly to
the UIipn, so far as cotton was concerned, which led to thepassage of the Captured and Abandoned Property Act of
March, 1863, and the subsequent amendments thereto.
Cotton was considered the great means of procuring supplies
for the Confederate government. It is well known to have
been its chief reliance for the purchase of arms and other muni.tions of war abroad; indeed, without this resource, the Confederacy would have been deprived of its greatest means of
obtaining the necessary supplies to continue the struggle. As
said by this court in the case of Xr8. Alexander'8 Cotton, 2
Wall. 420, cited above, no principle of equity or just policy
requirea when the national occupation was itself precarious,
that it should be spared from capture and allowed to remain,
in case of, the withdrawal of -the Union troops, an element of
strength -to the rebellion.
The acte d6ngress of March 12, 1863, providing for the
collection of abandoned and captured property in the insurrectionary territory, (12 Stat. 820, c. 120,) declared that all such
property might be appropriated to the public use or sold. But
it also said, in substance, that the property of friend and foe

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

cannot at the time be separated; and all the property of that
kind found within the Confederate lines will be taken, sold,
and when sold its proceeds will be depositedin the Treasury;
but if afterwards within two years after the suppression of the
rebellion the owner can establish to the satisfaction of the Court
of Claims his title to the property thus taken, and his loyalty
to the Union cause, then the portion of the proceeds belonging
to him shall be restored, after deducting the expenses attendant
upon its capture, removal and custody. United States v. Anderson, 9 Wall. 56, 67.
Under this act immense amounts of property belonging to citizens of the United States, who sincerely mourned the origin
of the Confederacy, and longed for the re-establishment of the
national government, and who kept faith in their hearts through
the whole of the long struggle, were accounted for and the
proceeds restored to the rightful owners ; and certainly it must
be regarded as a most beneficent act on the part of the general
government. The records of the Court of Claims show a multitude of cases where this law has been administered, and
many loyal people have had the proceeds of their property
returned to them, which had been captured because of the fact
that it was situated within hostile territory.
In the present case, the petitioner was allowed the same
Tight to present his claim for the proceeds of the property belonging to his testator which would have been allowed if the
testator himself had presented his claim within two years after
the capture. The' question wag as to the loyalty of the testator of the claimant; and also as tohis ownership of the cotton.
His loyalty was found by the court, and also the bonaezfdes of
the sale of the property. After these facts had been established the only question that could have been properly considered was the amount of the proceeds which the petitioner
should receive. That was not considered by the Court of
Claims.
In passing the act, Congress considered that a question might
arise whether the transaction between Morehead and Briggs
constituted a sale, or an ssig mnent by way of mortgage,
although it purports to be a sale and transfer. The act pro-

NEBRASKA v. IOWA.
Statement of the Case.

vides that if the transaction was intended only as security Tor
indebtedness and against contingent' liabilities, Pnly'such p6rtion of the proceeds should be awarded to the petitioner as
would satisfy the debts and claims'of the testator, to' secure
which the assignment, as it is termed in the act,.was made.
The case, therefore, will be
Beversed, and sent back to the Court of Claims,with instructionstopass uipon the question, whether the transactionwas
an absolute sale or merely.a, mortgage or pledge; and according to the viewadopted the amount of the proceedsdue
and payable to the petitioner should be ascertained, and it,
is so ordered..

NEBRASKA v. IOWA.
ORIGINAL.
No.4. Original. Argoed January 29, 1892.-Decided February 29, 1892.
When grants of land border on running water, and the banks are changed
by the gradual process known -as uccretlon, the riparian owner's boundary-line still remains the stream; but when the boundiry stream suddenly abandons its old bed and seeks a new course by the process known
as avulsion, the boundary remains as it was, in the centre of the old
channel: and this rule applies to a State when a river forms one of its
boundary lines.
The law of accretion controls on the Missouri River, as elsewhere; but the
change in the course of that river in 1877 between Omaha and Councilt
Bluffs does not come within the law of accretiol, but within that of avulsion.

THE court stated the case as Wlows:

This is an original suit brought in this court by the State of
Nebraska against the State of Iowa, the object of which is to
have the boundary line between the two States determined.
Iowa was admitted into the Union in 1846, and its westernboundary as defined by the act of admission was the middle
of the main channel of the Missouri River. Nebraska was ad-

