OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

to which they are operative, the vein or lode must have been
known to exist at the time application for the patent was made.
The knowledge of the applicant is necessarily limited to what
has then been discovered; he cannot, of course, speak of possible future discoveries.
Before a vein or lode can be deemed to fidl within those
excepted from the placer patent, as a knowzn lode existing at
the time of the application of the patentee, the lode must be
discovered and located, so far as to be capable of measurement.
The instruction of the court below directing a verdict for
the plaintiff being in harmony with the decisions of this court
as to the necessity of showing the existence of a lode known
to the patentee at the time of his application for a patent, to
except the lode from conveyance to the patentee, I agree that
the judgment is rightly affirmed.

SCHWAB v. BERGGREN.
APPEAT

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOB

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 977. Argued January 21, 26, 1892. -Decided

February 29, 1892.

At common law it was deemed essential in capital cases that inquiry be
made of the defendant before judgment was passed whether he had anything to say why sentence of death should not be pronounced upon him;
thus giving him an opportunity to allege any ground of arrest, or to plead
a pardon if he had obtained one, or to urge any legal objection to further
proceedings againsthim. And if the record did not show that such privilege was accorded to him the judgment would be reversed.
This rule, however, does not apply to an appellate court, which, upon review
of the proceedings in the trial court, merely affirms a final judgment, without rendering a new one. Due process of law does not require his presence
in the latter court at the time the judgment sentencing him to death is
affirmed.
Neither the statutes of Illinois nor due process of law, require that the
accused, upon the affirmance of the judgment sentencing him to death,
shall be sentenced anew by the trial court. The judgment is not vacated
by the writ of error; only its execution is stayed pending proceedings in
the appellate court.

SCHWAB 'v. BERGGREN.
Opinion of the Court.
The time and llace of executing the sentence of death is not strictly part
of the judgment unless made so by statute.
The governor of Illinois has power under the constitution of that State,.
to commute the punishment of death to imprisonment for life in the
penitentiary.

Tam case is stated in the opinion.
.Yr. Benjamin F. Butler and

.A. X. Salomen for appellant. -

M'. GeorgeHun t,Attorney General of the State of Illinois,
(with whom was Mr. E. .Srnzitk on thb brief,) for appellee..
MR.

JUSTICE HARAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from an order sustaining a demurrer to a
petition by the appellant for a writ of habeas eo pus, and dismissing that petition.
In the case of Peole of -llinoisv. August Spies, "7fichae
Schwab, Samuel FiVelden et al.- which was an indictment for
murder in the Criminal Court of Cook County, in the State of
Illinois - an order was entered, October 9, 1886, as follows:
"The People of the State of Illinois
"
etc.
"Michael Schwab, Impl'd,

18803.

Indictment formurder.

"This day again come the said people, by Julius S. Grinnell,
State's attorney, and the said defendant, as well in his own
proper person as by his aforesaid counsel, also comes; and now,
neither the said defendant nor his counsel for him saying anything further why the judgment of the court should not now
be pronounced against him on the verdict of guilty heretofore
rendered to .the indictment in this cause "Therefore it is ordered and adjudged by the court that the
said defendant, Michael Schwab, be taken from the bar of the
court to the commoft jail of Cook County, from whence he
came, and be confined in said jail in safe and secure custody
until the third day of December, A.D. 1886, and that on
said third day of December, between the hours of ten

OCTOBER TERMI,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

o'clock in the forenoon and two o'clock in the afternoon, the
said defendant, Michael Schwab, be by the. sheriff of Cook
County, according to law, within the walls of said jail or in a
yard or enclosure adjoining the same, hanged by the neck
until he is dead, and the said sheriff is hereby required and
commanded to take the body of the said defendant, Michael
Schwab, and confine him in the said common jail of Cook
County in such safe and secure custody, and upon the said
third day of December, A.D. 1886, between the hours of ten
o'clock in the forenoob and two o'clock in the afternoon, to
hang the said defendant. Michael Schwab, by the neck until
he be dead."
The case was carried, by writ of error, to the Supreme Court
of Illinois, where the following order was made September 14,
1887, one of the regular days of that court:
"August Spies, Michael Schwab, Samuel
Fielden, Albert R. Parsons, Adolph' 59 A. D. Error
to the Criminal
Fischer, George Engel, Louis Lingg,
and Oscar . eeebe
o
iCourt
of Cook
IV.

J

County

The People of the State of Illinois.
"On this day came gain the said parties, and the court
having diligently examined and inspected, as well the record
and proceedings aforesaid as the matters and things therein
assigned for error, and being now sufficiently advised of and
concedrning the premises, for that ifappears to the court now
here that neither in the record nor proceedings'aforesaid, nor
in the rendition of' the judgment aforesaid, is there anything
erroneous, vicious, or defective, and that that record is no
error:
"Therefore it is considered by the court that the judgment
aforesaid be affirmed in all things as to each and every of said
plaintiffs in error and stand in full force and effect, notwithstanding the said matters and things therein assigned for
error.
"And it is further ordered by the court that the eleventh
day of November, A.D. 1887, be, and the same is hereby, fixed

SCHWAB v. BERGGREN.
Opinion of the Court.

as the time when the sentence of death, pronounced upon said
plaintiffs in error, August Spies, Michael Schwab, Samuel
Fielden, Albert R. Parsons, Adolph Fischer, George Engel,
and Louis Lingg, by the Criminal court of Cook County, Illinois,
shall be executed.
"And it is further ordered by the court that the sheriff of
Cook County, Illinois, be, and he is hereby, ordered and
directed to carry into execution the sentence by the Criminal
Court of Cook County, Illinois, of the defendants in the indictment, August Spies, Michael Schwab, Samuel Fielden, Albert
R. Parsons, Adolph Fischer, George Engel, and Louis Lingg,
on Friday, the eleventh day of November next (November 11,
A.D. 1887,) between the hours of ten o'clock in the forenoon
and four o'clock in the afternoon of that day.
"And it is further considered by the court that the said defendants in error recover of and from the said plaintiffs in error
their costs by them in this behalf expended, and that they
have execution therefor."
On the day preceding that fixed for the execution the governor of Illinois commuted the sentence of death imposed upon
Schwab, to imprisonment in the penitentiary for life, in"
consequence of which the sheriff of Cook County delivered him on
the 12th of November, 1887, to the warden of the penitentiary
at Joliet, Illinois, in which institution he has ever since been
confined at hard labor. On the same day of the commutation
of the sentence the governor addressed to the warden a communication, in which it Wias said: "The commutation papers
will this day be forwarded by me to the sheriff of Cook County,
Illinois, directed to Canute R. Matson, sheriff of said county,
with instructions to him to deliver said Fielden and Schwab
into your custody as warden of the Illinois penitentiary,
at Joliet, together with the commutation papers in each
case. You will receive the said Samuel Fielden and Michael
Schwab, as warden of said penitentiary, into your-custody,
whereby under said commutation you are hereby directed to receive said Samuel Fielden and Michael Schwab into your custody
as warden of said penitentiary, and to confine the said Fielden
and Schwab in said penitentiary, in safe and secure custody

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

and keeping, at hard labor during the term of their natural
lives. The said bommutation papers would have been sent, as
is usual, directly to you. I desired, however, that the sheriff
might temporarily have said papers in his possession on the
day ,hen said Fielden and Schwab, with several other persons named in said sentence which was pronounced against
them- were to be eiecuted on the 11th day of November, 1887,
that he might be able by said papers to show why the sentence
of said Samuel Fielden and Michael Schwab was not carried
into execution, as pronounced by said court against them."
It is averred in the petition for the writ of habeas corpus
that the recital iu the judgment of the-Supreme Court of Illinois, that "on this day came again the said parties," was and
is false and untrue, in that the petitioner was, before and at
the date of said order, and up to and including November 12th,
1887, imprisoned, continuously, in the county jail of Cook
County, and was not, .-when the order of September 14th, 1887,
was made, present personally or by counsel in that court, nor
had he notice, personally or by counsel, to be present there on
that day.
. The petitioner claimed that his detention in the penitentiary,
and his confinement there at hard labor, were in violation of
the Constitution and laws both of Illinois and the United
States.
The demurrer to the petition for the writ admits that the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois of September 14th,
1887, was rendered in the absence of both the appellant and
his counsel, and without notice to either that th4 case would be
disposed of at that. time. It is, therefore, contended by the
appellant that the judgment was void, as not being that duo
process of law required by the Constitution of the United
States, where life or liberty is involved.
At common law, it was deemed essential in capital cases,
that inquiry be made of the defendant, before judgment was
passed, whether he had anything to say why the sentence of
death should not be pronounced upon him; thus giving him
an opportunity to allege any ground of arrest, or to plead a
pardon, if he had obtained one, or to urge any other legal ob-

SCHWAB v. BERGGREN.
Opinion of the Co=rt.
jection to further proceedings against him. This privilege
was deemed of such substantial value to the accused, that the
judgment would be reversed if the record did not show that
it was accorded tb him. Ball v. Uirted States, 140 U. S.
118, 129; 1 Chitty's Crim. Law, 699, 700; Rex v. Geary, 2
Salk. 630; Ying v. Speke, 3 Salk. 358; Anonymous, 3 Mod.
266; 1 Archbold's Crim. Prac. & Plead. (Pomeroy's edition)
577, 578. And it has been so ruled in the courts of some of
the States. ilamilton v. Corwmonwealth, 16 Penn. St. 129, 133;
.Messner v. People, 45 N. Y. 1, 5; James v. State, 45 Mississippi, 572, 579; Crir , v. State, 43 Alabama, 53, 56; Perry v.
State, 43 Alabama, 53 ; State v. Jennings,24 Kansas, 642, 659;
Heech v. State, 15 Florida, 591, 609 ; Grady v. State, 11 Georgia,
253, 257; Sa¢ford v. The People, I Parker's Crim. Rep. 474,
476.
But this rule of the common law, as the authorities clearly
show, applied to the court of original jurisdiction which pronounced the sentence, and not to an appellate court, which,
upon review of the proceedings in the trial court, merely
affirms the final judgment -no error having been committed
to the prejudice of the accused-without rendering a new
judgment. The entire argument, on behalf of the appellant,
assumes that the Supreme Court of Illinois pronounced a sentence of death upon him. But such is not the fact. The
sentence of death, by hanging, was pronounced by the Criminal Court of Cook County, October 9th, 1886, "neither the
said defendant nor his counsel for him saying anything further
why the judgment of the court should not now be pronounced
against him on the verdict of guilty heretofore rendered to the
indictment in this cause." The execution of that sentence
haviqg been stayed by the prosecution of a writ of error, with
supersedeas, the Supreme Court of the State, upon examination of the matters assigned for error, affirmed the judgment
in all things, and (the day originally fixed for the execution
having passed) fixed November 11th, 1887, as the day for
carrying into execution "the sentence by the criminal court of
Cook County." What that court did was in strict conformity
with the Criminal Code of Illinois relating to prosecutions by

OCTOBER TERM, 189f.
Opinion of the Court.
indictment for capital offences, which provides that "if the
judgment is affirmed, the Supreme Court shall, by order, fix
the time when the original sentence of death shall be executed,
a copy of which order shall be sufficient authority to the
sheriff for the execution of the prisoner at the time therein
specified;" and that "if the judgment is affirmed, the Supreme
Court shall direct the court in which the original sentence was
rendered to carry the same into effect, and shall give judgment
against the plaintiff in error for costs, and execution may issue
therefor from the Supreme Court." Rev. Stats. Illinois, c. 38,
Crim. Code, §§ 459, 465, Div. XV.
Numerous authorities have been'cited for the appellant in
support of the general common law rule that the accused must
be present when the judgment against him is pronounced;
but they fall far short of establishing the contention that due
process of law required his personal presence in the Supreme
Court of Illinois at the time the order was entered affirming
the judgment by which he was sentenced to death. No case
is cited, and we are aware of no well-considered case, which
supports that contention. The personal presence of the accused, from the beginning to the end of a trial for felony, involving life or liberty, as well as at the time final judgment is
rendered against him, may be, and must be assumed to be,
vital to the proper conduct of his defence, and cannot be dispensed with. This court in Hopt v. Utah, 110 U. S. 574, 579,
after observing that the public has an interest in the life and
liberty of the accused, and that neither can be lawfully taken
except in the mode prescribed by law, said: "That which the
law makes essential in proceedings involving deprivation of
life or liberty cannot be dispensed with or affected by the consent of the accused, much less by his mere failure, when on
trial and in custody, to object to unauthorized methods. The
great end of punishment is not the expiation or atonement of
the offence committed, but the prevention of future offences
of the same kind. 4 B. Com. 11. Such being the relation
which the citizen holds to the public, and the object of punishment for public wrongs, the legislature has deemed it essential
to the protection of one waose life or liberty is involved in a

SCHWAB

v. BEkGGREN.

Opinion of the Court.

prosecution for felony, that he shall be personally present at
the trial, that is, at every stage of the trial when his substantial rights may be affected by the proceedings against him.
If he be deprived of his life or liberty without being so present, such deprivation would be without .that due process of
See Harris v. People,
law required by the Constitution."
130 Illinois, 457, 459. But neither reason nor public policy
require that he shall be personally present pending proceedings in an appellate court whose only function is to determine
whether, in the transcript submitted to them, there appears
any errbr of law to the prejudice of the accused; especially,
where, as in this case, he had counsel to represent him in the
court of review. We do not mean to say that the appellate
court may not, under some circumstances, require his personal
presence ; but only that his presence is not essential to its jurisdiction to proceed with the case.
In Fielden v. People, 128 Illinois, 595, 601, the Supreme
Court of Illinois, speaking by Mr. Justice Schofield, after
showing that the rule at common law, to which we have adverted, could have no application to that court, which acts
and decides only upon the record made in the trial court, said:
"We may add, moreover, it has not been the practice of this
court, from its organization to the present time, to have the
plaintiff in error in a criminal case actually present in court at
the hearing and when final judgment is given; and it is clear,
from the different provisions of the statute, that it not only
does not provide for their presence, but it contemplates that
they will not be present."
In Donnelly v. State, 2 Dutcher (26 N. J. Law) 463, 4-1,
which was a case of conviction of murder, -it was said : "If
the presence of the prisoner is necessary in cases of murder to
conduct a writ of error, or to receive the judgment of -the
court, it is, upon the principles of the English law, equally so
in all other cases of felony or crimes above misdemeanors.
But upon examining the precedents, we do not find a single
case, where, upon writ of error, the defendant was either
bcoAght into this court or prosecuted the writ in person."
After referring to several previous cases, the court proceeded:
VOL. c.xm-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1891."
Opinion of the Court.

"We think it must be considered as settled by the p-ractice
in this State, that in proceedings upon writ of error the personal presence of the prisoner in court is not a technical
necessity; that he appears by counsel, errors are assigned by
counsel, and judgment may be pronounced in the defendant's
absence."
I In S&ate v. Overton, 77 Nor. Carolina, 485, which was, also,
a case of murder, a judgment of conviction was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of North Carolina, and the decision was
certified to the court of original jurisdiction that the latter
might proceed to judgment and execution. The prisoner objected to any judgment being rendered against him, because he
had been denied his constitutional right of being present in
the Supreme Court of North Carolina when his case was there
argued and determined. The court said: "This objection is
founded upon an erroneous idea of a criminal trial, and of.the
power and duty of this court in such a case brought before it
by appeal. The constitution provides that a defendant in a
criminal action shall be informed of theaccusation against him,
and shall have the right to confront the accusers and witnesses
with other testimony, and shall not be convicted except by the
unanimous verdiet of a jury qf good and lawful men in open
court as heretofore used. That is his trial. This of course
implies that he shall have a right to be present. If he complains of any error in his trial, the record of the trial is transmitted to this court. Here, are no. accusers,' no I witnesses,'
and no 'jury'; but upon inspection of the record this court
decides whether there was error in the trial, and without rendering any judgment, orders its decision to be certified to the
court below. It has never been understood, nor has it been
the practice that the defendant shall be present in this court;
nor is he ever 'convicted' here." To the same effect are
State v. Leah, 90 Nor. Carolina, 655; State v. Jacobs, 107
Nor. Carolina, 772. See also People v. Clark, 1 Parker's
Criminal Rep. 360, 367.
We are of opinion that the practice prevailing in Illinois,
New Jersey and North Carolina, as shown in the above cases,
is that which is' pursued, and has always been pursued, in the

SCHWAB v. BERGGREN.
Opinion of the Court.

different States, as well as at common law. It is not only
consistent with " due process of law" - giving these words
the most liberal interpretation -but is founded on a wise
public policy.
Nor is the question affected by the fact that the Supreme
Court of Illinois, under express authority conferied by statute,
fixed the time when the punishment prescribed by the judgment which it affirmed should be inflicted. Neither the statute nor due process of law required that the accused should,
upon the affirmance of the judgment, be sentenced anew by
the trial court to suffer the punishment of death, or that he
should be present when the day was fixed by the appellate
court for carrying the original sentence into execution. The
judgment prescribing that punishment was not vacated by
the writ of error; only its execution was stayed pending proceedings in the appellate court. Besides, it is well settled that
the time and place of execution are not, strictly, part of the
judgment or sentence, unless made so by statute. .Holdenv.
finnesota, 137 U. S. 483, and authorities there cited; 1 Chitty's
Crim. Law, 780, 787; Costley v Commonwealth, 118 Mass. 32.
It is said in respect to the commutation by the governor of
his sentence to imprisonment in the penitentiary for life that
it was of no effect if the judgments were void. But the judgments are held not to be void. It is proper, however, to say
that the constitution of Illinois expressly confers upon that
officer the power "to grant reprieves, commutations and pardons, after conviction, for all offences." Art.' 5, sed. 13. Of
course, therefore, the governor had authority to commute the
punishment of death to imprisonment for life in the penitentiary. And by the statutes of Illinois, the penitentiary at
Joliet is made the general penitentiary and prison of that Stat6
for the confinement and reformation, as well as for the punishment of all persons sentenced by any court of competent jurisdiction in that State for the commission of crime the punishment of which is confinement in the -penitentiary, "in which
the person so sentenced shall be securely confined, employed at
hard labor." Rev. Stats. Illinois, c. 108, sec. 1. So that the
detention of the appellant by the warden of the penitentiary is

OCTOBER TERAI\,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

not in violation of any rights secured to him by the Constitution of the United States.
There are no other questions in the case which require to be
noticed, and the judgment must be
Afflmed.

FIELDEN v. ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT 'OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 909.

Argued January 21, 26,1892.-Decided February 29, 1892.

F. was convicted of murder, in the Criminal Court of Cook County, Illinois,
and sentenced by that court to suffer the penalty of death. Upon writ of
error to the Supreme Court of Illinois, that judgment was affirmed and
the day fixed in the original judgment for carrying the 'sentence into execution having passed, that court fixed another 'day. After the expiration
of the term the accused applied for a correction of the record of the
Supreme Court, so as to show that he was not present in that court when
the original judgment was affirmed, and another day fixed for the execution. The application was denied upon the ground, in part, that amendments of the record of the court in derogation of the final judgment
could not be allowed at a subsequent term. Held,
(1) That the law of Illinois, as declared by its highest court, in respect
to ainendments of the record, was applicable to all persons within'
the jurisdiction of that State, and its enforcement against the
plaintiff in error was not a denial to him by the State of the
equal protection of the laws;
(2) That due process of law did not require the presence of the accused
in the appellate court when the original judgment of the trial
court was affirmed, and a new day fixed for his execution.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.A,. Benjamin F. Butler and Mrh. X. Salomon for plaintiff
in error.

.. r. George Hunt, Attorney General of the State of Illinois, (with whom was ,A&. E. S. Smith on the brief,) for
defendant in err9r.
MRi.

TUSTIcE

HARLA

N

delivered the opinion of the court.

