BUDD. v. NEW YOMK
Statement of the Case.

BUDD v. NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF BUFFALO, STATE OF NEW YORK.

NEW YORK ex Tel. ANNAN 'v. WALSH.
NEW YORK ex Pd. PINTO v. WALSH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 719, 6i4, 65. Argued November 17,18,1891. -Decided February 29, 1892.
An act of the legislature of New York (Laws of 1888, chap. 581) provided
that the maximum charge for elevating, receiving, weighing and discharging grain should not exceed five-eighths of one cent a bushel; and
that, in the process of handling grain by means of floating and stationary elevators, the lake vessels or propellers, the ocean vessels or steamships, and canal boats, should only Ve required to pay the actual cost of
trimming or shovelling to. the leg of the elevator when unloading, and
trimming cargo when loading; Held, that the act was a legitimate exercise of the police power.of the State over a business affected with a publie interest, and did not violate the Constitution of the United States,
and was valid.
The case of .ilunn v. Illinofs, 94 U. S. 113, reviewed and adhered to, and its
application in cases decided in.the state courts considered.
The decision in Chicago &e. .Railway Co. v. .finnesota, 134 U. S. 418
explained.
Although the act of New York did not apply to places having less than
130,000 population, it did not deprive persons owning elevators in places
of 130,000 population or more, of the equal protection of the laws.

THE

case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

On the 9th of June, 1888, the governor of the State of New
York approved an act, chapter 581 of the laws of New York
of 1888, which had been passed by the twb houses of the legislature, three-fifths being present, entitled "An act to regulate
the fees and charges for elevating, trimming, receiving, weighing and discharging grain by means of floating and stationary
elevators and warehouses in this State." The act was in these
words: "Section 1. The maximum charge for elevating, receiving, weighing and discharging grain by means of floatin and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

stationary elevators and warehouses in this State shall not
exceed the following rates, namely: For elevating, receiving,
weighing and discharging grain, five-eighthsof one cent a
bushel. In the process of handling grain by means of floating
and stationary elevators, the lake vessels or propellers, the
ocean vessels or steamships, and canal boats, shall only be
required to pay the actual cost of trimming or shovelling .to
the leg of the elevator when unloading, and trimming cargo
when loading. § 2. Any person or persons violating the provisions of this act, shall, upon conviction thereof, be adjudged
guilty of a misdemeanor, and be punished by a fine of not
less than two hundred and fifty dollars and costs thereof.
§ 3. Any person injured by the violation of the provisions of
this act, may sue for and recover any damages he may sustain against any person or persons violating said provisions.
§ 4. This act shall not apply to any village, town, or city
having less than one hundred and thirty thousand population.
§ 5. This act shall take effect immediately."
On the 26th of November, 1888, an indictment which had
been found by the grand jury of Erie County. New York, in
the court of sessions of that county, against J. Talman Budd,
for charging and receiving fees for elevating, receiving, weighing and discharging grain into and from a stationary elevator
and warehouse, contrary to the provisions of said statute,
came on for trial, before a criminal term of the Superior Court
of Buffalo, Erie County.
The charge in the indictment was, that Budd, at Buffalo,
on the 19th of September, 1888, being manager of the Wells
elevator, which was an elevator and warehouse for receiving
and discharging grain in the city of Buffalo, that city being
a municipal corporation duly organized i. pursuance of the
laws of the &tate of New York and having a population of
. pvards of 130,000 people, did receive, elevate and weigh
from the propeller called the Oceanica, the property of the
Lehigh Valley Transportation Company, a body corporate,
51,000 bushels of grain and corn, the property of said company, into the said Wells elevator, and unlawfully exacted
from said company, for elevating, receiving, weighing and

BUDD v. NEW YORK.
Statement of the Case.

discharging said grain and corn, the sum of one cent a bushel,
and also exacted from said company, for shovelling to the leg
of the elevator, in the unloading of said 51,000 bushels of
grain and corn, $1.75 for every 1000 bushels thereof, over and
above the actual cost of such shovelling.
The facts set forth in the indictment were proved, and the
defendant's counsel requested the court to instruct the jury to
render a verdict of acquittal, on the ground that the prosecution was founded on a statute which was in conflict both
with the Constitution of the United States and with that of
the State of New York; that the services rendered by Budd,
for which the statute assumed to fix a price, were not public
in their nature; that neither the persons rendering them, nor
the elevator in question, had received any privilege from the
legislature, and that such elevator was not a public warehouse and received no license. The court declined to direct
a verdict of acquittal, and the defendant excepted.
The court charged the jury,*that it was claimed by the
prosecution that the defendant had violated the statute in
charging more than five-eights of one cent a bushel for elevating, receiving, weighing and discharging the grain, and in
charging more than the actual cost of trimming or shovelling
to the leg of the elevator, in unloading the propeller; that
the statute was constitutional; and that the jury should find
the defendant guilty as charged in the indictment, if they
believed the facts which had been adduced. The .defendant
excepted to that part of the charge which instructed the jury
that they might find the defendant guilty of exacting an
excessive rate for shovelling to the leg of the elevator, and
also to that part which instructed the jury that they might
convict the defendant for having exacted an excessive rate for
elevating, receiving, weighing and discharging the grain and
corn.
The jury brought in'a verdict of guilty as charged in the
indictment, and the court sentenced the defendant to pay a
fine of $250, and, in default thereof, to stand committed to
the common jail of Erie County for a period not exceeding
one day for each dollar of said fine. The-def~ndant appealed

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

ftom that judgment to the general term of the Superior Court
of Buffalo, which affirmed t3e judgment. He then appealed
to the Court of Appeals of New York, which affirmed the
.judgment of the Superior Court of Buffalo; and the latter
court afterwards entered a judgment making the judgment of
Sthe Court of Appeals its judgment. The defendant then sued
,ut from this court a writ of error directed to the Superior
Court of Buffalo.
The opinion of the Court of Appeals is reported in 117
N. Y. 1. It was delivered by Judge Andrews, with whom
Chief' Judke Ruger and Judges Earl, Danforth and Finbh
concurred. Judges Peckham and Gray dissented, Judge Gray
giving a dissenting opinion, and Judge Peckham adhering to
the dissenting opinion which he gave in the case of People
v. Walsh, 117 N. Y. 34.
On the 22d of June, 1888, a complaint on oath was made
before Andrew Walsh, a police justice of the city of Brooklyn,
New York, that on the preceding day one Edward Annan, a
resident of that city; had violated the provisions of chapter
581 of the laws of New York of 1888, by exacting from the
complainant more than five-eighths of one cent per bushel for
elevating, weighing, receiving and discharging a boatload of
grain from a canal-boat to an ocean steamer, and by exacting
from the canal-boat and its owner more than the actual cost
of trimming or shcvelling to the leg of the elevator, and by
charging against the.ocean steamer more than the actual cost
of trimming the cargo, the services being rendered by a floating elevator of which Annan was part owner and one of the
agents. On this complaint, Annan was arrested and brought
before the police justice, who took testimony in the case and
.committed Annan to the custody of the sheriff of the county
of Kings, to answer the charge before a court of special sessions in the city of Brooklyn. Thereupon writs of habeas
corus and certiorariwere granted by the Supreme Court of
the State of iNew York, on the application of Annan, returnable -before the general term of that court in the first instance;
but on a hearing thereon, the writs were drsmissed and Annan
was remanded to the custody of the sheriff. The opinion of

BUDD v. NEW YORK.

. 521

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the general term is re.ported in 50. Tun, 413. Annan appealed
to the Court of Appeals, which affired the order of the general term, 117 N. Y. 621, for the reasons set forth in the
opinion in the case of Budd, 117 N. Y. 1, and the judgment
of the Court of Appeals was afterwards made the judgment of
the Supreme Court. Annan sued out a writ of error from this
court, directed to the Supreme Court of the State of New York.
Like proceedings to the foregoing were had in the case of
one Francis E. Pinto, the charge against him being that he
had exacted from the complainant more than five-eighths of
one cent per bushel for receiving and weighing a cargo of
grain from a boat into the Pinto stores, of which he was lessee
and manager, the same being a stationary grain elevator on
land in the city of Brooklyn, New York, and had exacted
more than the actual cost of trimming or shovelling to the leg
of the elevator. Pinto sued out from this court a writ of
error to the Supreme Court of the State of New. York.
Mr. Benjanrdr F. Traey and Mr. Williarn IVY .Dykman for
Annan and Pihto, plaintiffs in error.
I. Floating elevators in the port of New York are private.
They are not affected with any public interest, and they are
not subject to regulation of rates. They are comparable to
threshing machines which are moved about the country
from one farm to another by horse power. In both machines
there is the element of property, but in each case labor predominates.
We are helped in our study of Mr. Annan's status by decisions of the New York Court of Appeals fixing the. status of
his fellow-laborers in the grai i trade.
In Fisk v. Clark, 49 N. Y. 122 a canal-boat owner was
held not to be a common carrier. The case arose over a
cargo lost by the smking of the boat, and plaintiffs asserted that the defendant canal-boat owner was liable absolutely and without proof of negligence, because, they said, he
was a common carrier. The whole case, turned on whether
he was a public or a private carrier.
It is plso settled in New York that the steamboat which

OCTOBER TERMK, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

tows the canal-boat is not a common carrier. Alexander v.
Greene, 3 Hill, 9; Caton, v. _humney, 13 Wend. 387; Wedl v.
Steam -a~v. Co., 2 N. Y. 204.
The stationary elevators along the Brooklyn shore are
wholly private. Wetmore v. Brooklyn Gas Light Co., 42
N. Y. 384; Woodrvff v. Havemeyer, 106 N. Y. 129. Those
were the cases of the wharves in front of thi elevators, but
the principle was distinctly enunciated that the riparian
owners could exclude the public.
It is not conceivable that all who handle merchandise
brought to New York by rail shall be held to be quasi public,
and subject to have prices limited for their services, because
the merchandise has been carried over a way built by permission and under a charter granted by the State. The fact that
the one is a way on land, maintained by a grantee or appointee
of the sovereign, and the other a waterway, maintained by the
sovereign, does not alter the principle under discussion. But
even if the law were or can be limited to grain carried through
the canal, it is certain that the canal does not impress with a
public character those who are engaged in carrying merchandise through it. Fish v. Clark, 49 N. Y. 122; Ifellsv. 8team
Navy. Co., 2 N. Y. 204; Alexander v. Greene, 3 Hill, 9.
II. This law cannot be defended upon the ground that the
legislature may determine in an act what rates are equai ana
reasonable.
Upon the face of this act appears its true nature, intent
and
aim. Experience had shown that grain was most easily and
economically moved and handled where the bill of lading
under which the canal carrier transports his cargo bound him
to deliver his cargo out of his boat and to pay therefor, and
where the owner delivered the cargo to the ocean carrier, who,
in his turn, bore the expense of stowing the grain against the"
voyage. But the canal-boatmen, conceiving this to be unjust,
secured in this act'a provision that they shall only pay for
shovelling the grain to the leg of the elevator, and for that only
at the actual cost of labor; and it is enacted also that the ocean
carrier shall only be required to pay the actual cost of the
labor involved in stowing his cargo.

BUDD

. NEW YORK.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

It results that the elevator owner must hire men, superintend their labor and be responsible for its results, and all
without compensation, for he can charge only what he pays

out for labor. The law, therefore, cannot be defended as a
determination what rates are equal and reasonable. It is a law
prescribing the terms of the several contracts involved in moving grain. It enacts who shall pay. It provides how much
each shall contribute. It compels the grain owner to pay for,
all the work done for him and for a part of the work done for
the canal and ocean carrier.
III. This law is unconstitutional even if it be conceded or
determined that the "Ceres "' is a common or public elevator,
for that would at the very furthest do no more than lower the
rights of an elevator owner to those of a railroad company or
other common carrier.
Miago, .filwaukee& St. PaulRailway v. .finnevsota,134 U. S. 418. Since that decision we understand it to be the settled doctrine of this court, that'a law
exercising the function of the State to control the prices
charged by railroad common carriers and others subject to the
like regulation, in order that their charges may be reasonable,
must provide judicial forms and judicial machinery for the
determination of the question or at least must leave the question open for an examination in the courts, and that an attempt
to regulate rates without providing judicial machinery and depriving the constituted courts of jurisdiction is unconstitutional
and void.
It follows that unless the law of New York permits a judicial investigation into the reasonableness of the rates fixed it
also is in violation of the Constitution of the United .States.
Whether a statute is constitutional or not is always a question of powei -that is, a question whether the legislature in
the particular case, in respect to the subject matter-of the act,
the manner in .whirh its object is to be accomplished and the
mode of enacting it has kept Within the constitutional limits
and observed the constitutional conditions. In any case in
which this question is answered in the' affirmative the courts
are not at liberty to inquire into the proper exercise of the
power. They must assume that legislatfve discretion has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

properly exercised. If evidence was required it must be supposed that'it was before the legislature when the act was
passed, and if any special finding was required to warrant the
passage of the particular act it would seem that the passage
of the act itself might be held equivalent to such finding.
Cooley's Const. Lim. 222.
The "subject' matter" raises the question whether floating
elevators are within the legislative jurisdiction. "The manner
in'which its object is to be accomplished" means that a
"subject matter" may be concededly within the legislative
jurisdiction, and the law be void for a defect in methods 6f
a&omplishment. This court, in The (hicago, lXfilwaukee &
St. Paul Case, held the Minnesota law unconstitutional and
void for just such a defect, viz.: an attempt to exclude the
courts from jurisdiction over the question of reasonableness
of rates, and this defect of method is, We contend, equally
fatal to the iNew York law.
IV. As to the judgment of this court in Xunn v. Illinois,
94 U. S. 113, we submit, with very great respect that the
medieval rules and instances were allowed too great influence
in that judgment. When England was mainly a pastoral and
agricultural country, with her trade and commerce. in their
infancy, all sorts of burdensome restrictions were imposed
upon the individual by a paternal theory of government for'
the supposed benefit of trade. But even at these times and
in the midst of this medimval darkness, the course of the
judges was towards freedom. In the latter part of the eighteenth century there was a general awakening to the false
theories which had permitted these impositions. In England
Adam Smith's great work was followed by many repeals 6f
vicious regulations, and by an entire cessation of new restraints. In France the edict of Louis XVI liberated trade
from corresponding restrictions. In America the Declaration
of Independence set forth the inalienable right of all men to
life, liberty and the pursuit of "happiness; that is, among
other things to the right to- enjoy and acquire property.
That the essence of the right of property, is in its use and in
the power of alieation for use by others is obvious. Without

BUDD v. NEW -YORK.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

these the right is illusionary and valueless. Chief Justice
Marshall long since taught us that to tax the sale of property
is to tax the property itself. Brown, v. Maryland,19 Wheat.
419. The same proposition was repeated in TMelton v..Missow-i, 91 U. S. 275, Mr. Justice Field delivering the opinion
of the unanimous 6ourt. See also Wynekamer v. People, 13
N. Y. 378; In the matter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98, 106.
Our whole commercial history shows that our Constitution
fixes a great and wide gulf, between the old and the new;
between medifval darkness, which permitted every detail of
one's life to be regulated, and modem freedom of action. We
do not think that the judgment in the .Ann Case estimated
truly the condemnation of the old system, its separation from
the n'ew, and the consequent weakness of argument drawn
from medieval times.
Mr. Chief Justice Waite made the basis of his judgment the
custom "in England from time immemorial and in this country
from its first colonization to regulate ferries, common carriers,
hackmen, bakers, millers, wharfingers, innkeepers, etc., and in
so doing to fix a maximum of charge to be made for services
rendered, accommodations furnished and articles sold."
We very respectfully deny the custom or the right to regulate the price of bread. Cooley's Constitutional Limitations,
736, n. 3; ifobile v. Yuille; 3 Alabama, 137; S. C. 36 Am.
Dec. 441.
Mills were regulated at first, and the toll which the miller
might take was prescribed, because to grind grain was a franchise and might not be done without permission from the king
or the lord of the manor. 15 Viner's Abridgment, 398;
Cooley's Constitutional Limitations (5th ed.) 736; Hio v.
Gardiner,2 Bustr. 195.
Hackmen have a 7egal monoroly. It is a trade which the
law can prohibit and suppress, but which it licenses and controls instead. The right to ply vehicles for hire from exclusive stands in the streets is'not a natural right, but wholly
acquired from the State, which of course has the right to prescribe terms to the privilege it creates. CooJey's Constitutional Limitations (5th ed.) 736.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

To have a ferry is a franchise, and the governmental control
is based on the fact that the right to use a boat for ferriage
must come by state grant, which prescribes the conditions of
the use. Sir Matthew Hale, -be Po'rtibus 3faris, quoted by
Chief Justice Waite, p. 126; fMayor v. Starin, 106 IN. Y. 1;
ffills v. St. Clair County Commissioner, 4 Illinois (3 Scammon), 53; Tiustees &c. v. Tatman, 13 Illinois, 27.
That private wharves are the rule and public wharves the
exception, may be proved from C. J. Waite's quotation from
Sir Matthew Hale's text, De Portibus .faris.
.Ahun v. Bli'zois,.
94
T.T.
S.
127.
In
New
York,
the
Brooklyn
private. TFetmore v. Brooklyn Gas Co., 42 IN. Y. wharves are
384; WVood'ufv. lavemeyer, 106 N. Y. 129. And it is doubtful if warehouses are public in that State. In re Eureka WMarehouse
Co., 96 N. Y. 42.
In medieval times common carriers and common,farriers
were alike bound to practise their art on demand, and show
skill in it. Jackson v. Rogers, 2 Shower, 332. The distinction
between public and private carriers was known of old. Hutton v. Osborne, cited in Selwyn's Nisi Prius, 401. This dist-inction is still preserved in the law. Allen v. Sackrider, 37
IN. Y. 341; Fisk v. Clark, 49 N. Y.122.
There was always, then, in every case where a wharf, or a
warehouse, or an inn, or a carrier was alleged to be public or
common, a questiqn of fact to be determined, viz.: Had the
individual done the acts or had his property the antecedents
and concomitants which give the public rights to his services
and the use of his property? We affirm that this right to
have it established in court by evidence that the individual is
in the public service is a property right and is guaranteed by
the Constitution of the United States.
The opinion of the Chief Justice in -Munn v. Illinois; disposes of this element in the authorities by adjudging that it
is a question for the legislature, and presuming in favor of the
law that the legislature- has decided that all who are within
the terms of the law were at its date in a common or public
employment, and fit subjects for regulatipn of prices.
The law of New York here in question attempts to regulate

BUDD v. NEW YORK.
Argument f6r Plaintiffs in Error.

all elevators in cities of over 130,000 population, viz.: New
York, Brooklyn and Buffalo. It in effect declares that all
elevators in these cities are and shall be public elevators. We
contend that no state of circumstances can exist to justify this
statute, and, within the doctrine of all the cases, we ask that
it be declared void. It is impossible to justify this law by the
precedents relied upon in the -Munn Case. The elements of
publicity are in almost every case wholly within individual
control.
There has not been and there cannot be in New York any
such situation as existed in Chicago. No man and no set of
men in New York can fix a rate of toll and thus tax commerce. There will always be in the port of New York a
genuine competition. Our floating elevator is radically different from Munn's warehouse in itself and in its surroundings.
V. This law is unconstitutional and void because it decides
that Annan's elevator is not private, and therefore free from
legislative control without due process of law. It governs and
regulates all elevators in cities having 130,000 population, and
the Supreme Court, construing the law, held that no evidence
before the magistrate could be considered. The Court of
Appeals of New York in its opinion, (117 N. Y. 621,) said:
"We are of opinion that the statute of 1888 is constitutional as
a whole, and although it may comprehend cases which, standing
alone, might not justify legislative interference, yet they must
be governed by the general rule enacted by the legislature."
We take issue at this point: Ours is, we contend, a case comprehended by the statute, yet not justifying legislative interference, and we submit as the true rule that if one single case
falls within the statute whose antecedents and concomitants
do not justify legislative coercion, the law is void. The People"
v. Marx, 99 N. Y. 377; XoThcg v. Eing, 35 N. Y. 454; S. C..
91 Am. Dec. 58; -1n,the .(atter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98; Evine's
Appeal, 16 Penn. St. 266; S. C. 55 Am. Dec. 499; Hurtado
v. Calzfornia, 110 U. S. 516.
VI. This law violates the Constitutioi of the United States
in that it refuses to and takes from elevator owners the equal
protedtion of the laws.

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

By this act owners of elevators in cities of less than 130,000
inhabitants re left free to make their own bargains, while in
cities of over 130,000 population they are constrained to take
the statutory rate.
Yonkers is a city of less than 130,000 inhabitants and so is
Long Island City. The former adjoins New York City and
the latter is separated from it only by the East River, and
only a narrow creek - perhaps two hundred feet wide - separates Brooklyn and Long Island City. In'Yonkers or Long
Island City or in Albany or Rochester an elevator owner is
free, while in Brooklyn, Buffalo and New York they are
deprived of their freedom. Such a law deprives ,elevator
owners in the larger cities of the equal protection of the laws.
The Railroad Tax Caies, 13 Fed. Rep. '722;. Santa Clara
County v. South ern Pacift Railroad,118 U. S. 394; Barbler
i&ouri, 120 U. S. 68.
v. Conolly, 113 U. S. 27; Hayes v.
if. Spencer Clinton for Budi,"plaintiff in error.
.M . J. A. Hyland for the defendants in error in 644 and
645.
Mr. George T. Quin6y filed a brief for the defendants in
error in 719.
MR. JUSTIOE BL.AToFRM,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The main question involved in these cases is whether this
court will adhere to its deciiqn-in .Munn v. illinoi, 94 U. S.
113.
The Court of Appeals of New York, in People v. Budd,
117 N. Y. 1, held that chapter 581 of the laws of 1888 did
not violate the constitutional guarantee protecting; private
property, but was a legitimate exercise of the police power of
the State over a business affected with a public interest. In
regard to the indictment against Budd, it held that the charge
of, exacting more than the statute, rate for elevating was
proved; and that as to the alleged overcharge for shovelling, it

BUDD v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

appeared that the carrier was compelled to pay $4 for each
1000 bushels-of grain, which was the charge of the shovellers'
union, by which the work was performed, and that the union
paid the elevator, for the use of the latter's steam shovel, $1.5
for each 1000 bushels. The court held that there was no error
in submitting to the jury the question as to the overcharge for
shovelling; that the intention of the statute was to confine the
charge to the "actual cost" of the outside labor required; and
that a violation of the act in that particular was proved; but
that, as the verdict and sentence were justified by proof of the
overcharge for elevating, even if the alleged overcharge for
shovelling was not made out, the ruling of the Superior fourt
of Buffalo could not have prejudiced Budd. Of course, this
court, in these cases, can consider only the Federal questions
involved.
It is claimed, on behalf of Budd, that the statute of the
State of Ne* York is unconstitutional, because contrary to
the provisions of section I of the Fourteentli Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States, in depriving the citizen
of his property without due process of law; that it is unconstitutional in fixing the maximum charge for elevating, receiving, weighing and discharging grain by means of floating and
stationary elevators and warehouses at five-eighths of one cent
a bushel and in forbidding the citizen to make any profit upon
the use of his property or labor; and that the police power of
the State extends only to property or business which is devoted
by its owner to the public, by a. grant to the public of the
right to demand its use. It is claimed on behalf of Annan
and Pinto that floating and stationary elevators in the port of
New York are private property, not affected with any public
interest, and not subject to the regulation of rates.
" Trimming" in the canal-boat, spoken of in the statute, is
shovelling the grain from one place to another, and is done by
longshoremen with scoops or shovels; and "trimming" the
ship's cargo when loading is stowing it and securing it for the
voyage. Floating elevators are primarily boats. Some are
scows, and have to be towed from place to place by steam tugs;
but the majority are propellers. When the floating elevator
VoL. CXuM-34

OCTOBER TERI,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

arrives at the ship and makes fast alongside of her, the canalboat carrying the grain is made fast on the other side of the
elevator. Along wooden tube, called "the leg of the elevator,"
and spoken of in the statute, is lowered from the tower of the
elevator so that its lower end enters the hold of the canal-boat
in the midst of the grain. The "spout" of the elevator is lowered into the ship's hold. The machinery of the elevator is
then set in motion, the grain is elevated out of the canal-boat,
received and weighed in the elevator, and discharged into the
ship. The grain is lifted in "buckets" fastened to an endless
belt which moves up and downg in the leg of the elevator. The
lower end of the leg is buried in the grain so that the buckets
are submerged in it. As the belt moves, each bucket goes up
full of grain, and at the upper end of the leg, in the elevator
tower, empties its contents into the hopper which receives the
grain. The operation would cease unless the grain was trimmed
or shovelled to the legas fast as it is carried up by the buckets.
There is a gang of longshoremen who shovel the grain from all
parts of the hold of the'canal-boat to "the leg of the elevator,"
so that the buckets may be always covered with grain at the
lower end of the leg. This "trimming or shovelling to the leg
of the elevator," when the canal-boat is unloading, is that part
of the work which the elevator owner is required to do at the
" actual

cost."

* In the Budd and Pinto cases, the elevator was a stationary
one on land; and in the Annan case, it was a floating elevator.
In the Budd case, the Court of Appeals held that the words
"actual cost," used in the statute, were intended to exclude any
charge by the elevator beyond the sum specified, for the use
of its machinery in shovelling, and the ordinary expenses of
operating it, and to confine the charge to the actual cost of
the outside labor required for trimming and bringing the grain
to the leg of the elevator; and that the purpose of the statute
could be easily evaded and defeated if the elevator owner were
permitted to separate the services, and charge for the use of
the steam shovel any sum which might be agreed upon between Min and the shovellers' union, and thereby, under color
of charging for the use of his steam shovel, exact from the

BUDD v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

carrier a sum for elevating beyond the rate fixed therefor by
the statute.
The Court'of Appeals, in its opinion in the Budd case, considered fully the question as to whether the legislature had
power, under the constitution of the State of New York, to
prescribe a maximum charge for elevating grain by stationary
elevators, owned by individuals or corporations who had appropriated their property to that use and were engaged in that
business; and it answered the inquiry in the affirmative. It
also reviewed the case of .Jfunn v. Illinois 9-4 U. S. 113, and
arrived at the conclusion that this court there held that
the legislation in question in that case was a lawful exercise of
legislative power, and did not infringe that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States
which provides that no State shall "deprive any person of life,
liberty or property without due process of law;" and that
the legislation in question in that case was similar to, and not
distinguishable in principle from, the act of the State of New
York.
In regard to 3frunn v. Illinois, the Court of Appeals said
that the question in that case was raised by an individual
owning an elevator and warehouse in Chicago, erected for, and
in connection with which he had carried on, the business of
elevating and storing grain, many years prior to the passage of
the act in question, and prior also to the adoption of the amendment to the constitution of Illinois in 1870, declaring all elevators and warehouses, where grain or other property is stored for
a compensation, to be public warehouses. The Court of Appeals then cited the cases of People ex rel. etc. v. B. & A. 1.
1. Co., '70 N. Y. 569; Bertholfv. O'Reilly, 74 N. Y. 509; B.
E. S. R.R. Co. v. B.
k.R.R. Co., 111 N. Y. 132; and People
v. King, 110 N. Y. 418, as cases in which .3funn v. Illinoms
had been referred to by it, and said that it could not overrule and disregard W.zunn v. Illinois without subverting the
principle of its own decision in People v. Xing, and certainly
not without disregarding many of its deliberate expressions
in approval of the principle of 3funn v. Illinois.
The Court of Appeals further examined the question whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the power of the legislature to regulate the charge for elevating grain, where the business was carried on by individuals
upon their own premises, fell within the scope of the police
power, and whether the statute in question was necessary for
the public welfare. It affirmed that, while no general power
resided in the legislature to regulate private business, prescribe
the conditions under which it should be conducted, fix the
price of commodities or services or interfere with freedom of
contract, and while the merchant, manufacturer, artisan and
laborer, under our system of government, are left to pursue
and provide for their own interests in their own way, untrammelled by burdensome and restrictive regulations, which, however common in rude and irregular times, are inconsistent with
constitutional liberty, yetthere might be special conditions and
circumstances which brought the business of elevating grain
within principles which, by the common law and the practice
of free governments, justified legislative control and regulation
in the particular case, so that the statute would be constitutional; that the control which, by common law and by statute,
was exercised over common carriers, was conclusive upon the
point that the right of the legislature to regulate the charges
for services in connection with the use of property did not depend in every case upon the question whether there was a legal
monopoly, or whether special governmental privileges or protection had been bestowed; that there were elements of publicity in the business of elevating grain which peculiarly affected
it with a public interest; that those elements were found in the
nature and extent of the business, its relation to the commerce
of .the State and country, and the practical monopoly enjoyed
by those engaged in it; -that about 120,000,000 bushels of grain
come annually to Buialo from the West; that the business of
elevating.grain lit Buffalo is connected mainly with lake and
canal transportation; that -the grain received at New York in
1887 by way of the Erie Canal and Hudson River, during the
seas6n of canal navigation, exceeded 46,000,000 bushels, an
amnount very largely in excess of the grain received during the
same period by rail. and by river and c6astwise vessels; that
the elevation of that, grain- from lake vessels to canal-boats

BUDD v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

takes place at Buffalo, where there are thirty or forty elevators, stationary aiid floating; that a large proportion of the
surplus cereals of the country passes through the elevators at
Buffalo and finds its way through the Erie Canal and Hudson
River to the seaboard at New York, whence it is distributed
to the markets of the world; that the business of elevating
grain is an incident tofthe business of transportation, the elevators being indispensable instrufnentalities in the business of
the common carrier, and in a broad .sense performing the work
of carriers, being located upon or adjacent to the waters of the
State, and transferring the cargoes of grain from the lake vessels to the canal-boats, or from the canal-boats to the ocean
vessels, and thereby performing an 6ssential service in transportation; that by their means the transportation of grain by
water fromthe upper lakes to the seaboard is rendered possible; that the business of elevating grain thus has a vital relation to commerce in on6 of its most important aspects; that
every excessive charge. made in the course of the transport4tion of grain is a tax upon commerce; that the public has a
deep interest that no exorbitant charges shall be exacted at any
point, upon the business of transportation; and that whatever
impaired the usefulness of the Erie Canal as a highway of
commerce involved the public interest.
The Court of Appeals said that, in view of the foregoing
exceptional circumstances, the business of elevating grain was
affected with a public interest, within the language of Lord
Chief Justice Hale, in his treatise De Partius _Yatic, (Harg.
Law Tracts, 78;) that the case fell within the principle which
permitted the legislature to regulate the business of common
carriers, ferrymen and hackmen, and interest on the use of
money;. that the underlying principle .was, that business of
certain kinds holds such a peculiar relation to the public interest that there is superinduced upon it the right of public rpgulation; and that the court rested the power of the legislature
to control and regulate elevator charges upon the nature and
extent of the business, the existence of a virtual monopoly,
te benefit derived from the Erie Canal's creating the business
and making it possible, the interest to trade and commerce,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the relation of the business to the property and welfare of the
State, and the practice of legislation in analogous cases, collectively creating an exceptional case and justifying legislative
regulation.
The opinion further said that the..criticism to which the
case of ffunn v. Illinois had been subjected proceeded mainly
upon a limited and strict construction and definition of the
police power; that there was little reason, under our system
of government, for placing a close and narrow interpretation,
on the police power, or restricting its scope so as to hamper
the legislative power in dealing with the varying necessities
of society Lnd the new circumstances as they arise calling for
legislative interventioix i.n the public interest; and that no
serious invasion of constitutional guarantees by the legislature
could withstand for a long time the searching influence of
public opinion, which was sure to come sooner or later t6 the
side of law, order and justice, however it might have been
swayed for a time by passion or prejudice, or whatever aberrations might have marked its course.
We regard these views which we have referred to as announced by the Court of Appeals of New York, so far as they
-support the validity of the statute in question, as sound and
just.
In 2funn v. Illinois, the constitution of Illinois, adopted in
1870, provided in article 13, section 1, as follows: "All elevators or storehouses, where grain or other property is stored for
a compensation, whether the property stored be kept separated or not, are declared to be public warehouses ;" and the
act of the legislature of Illinois approved April 25, 1871,
(Public Laws of Illinois, of 1871-72, p. 762,) divided public

warehouses into three classes, prescribed the taking of a license and the giving of ' Bond, and fixed a maximum charge,
for Warehouses belonging to class A, for storing and handling
grain, iliiuding the cost of receiving and delivering, and.imposed .a fine on conviction for not taking the license or not
giving the bonil. Nunn and Scott were indicted, convicted
and fined for not taking out the. license and not giving the
bond, and for charging .rates for storing and handling grain

BUDD v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

higher than those established by the act. Section 6 of the
act provided that it should be the duty of every warehouseman
of class A to receive for storage any grain that might be tendered to him. Munn and Scott were the managers and lessees.
of a piublic warehouse, such as was named in the statute. The
Supreme Court of Illinois having affirmed the judgment of
conviction against them, on the ground that the. statute of
Illinois was a valid and constitutional enactment, .Munn v.
People, 69 Illinois, 80, they sued out-a writ of error from this
court, and contended that the provisions of the sections of the
statute of Illinois which they were charged with having violated
were repugnant to the third clause of § 8 of article 1, and the
sixth clause of § 9 of article 1, of the Constitution of the United
States, and to the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments of that
Constitution.
This court, in Munn,v. Jllinois, the opinion being delivered
by Chief Justice Waite, and there being a published dissent by
only two justices, considered carefully the question of the
repugnancy of the Illinois statute to the Fourteenth Amendment. It said, that under the powers of government inherent
in every sovereignty, "the government regulates the conduct
of its citizens one towards another, and the manner in which
each shall use his own property, when such regulation becomes
necessary for the public good;" and that, "in their exercise it
has been customary in England from time immemorial, and in
this country from its first colonization, to regulate ferries, common carriers, hackmen, bakers, millers, wharfingers, inn-keepers, etc., and in so doing to fix a maximum of charge to be made
for services rendered, accommodations furnished, and articles
sold." It was added: "To this day, statutes are to be found
in many of the States upon some or all these subjects; and we
think it has never yet been -successfully contended that such
legislation came within any of the constitutional prohibitions
against interference with private property." It announced as
its conclusions that, down to the time of the adoption of the
Fourteenth Amendment, it was not supposed that statutes regulating the use, or even the price of the use, of private property
necessarily deprived an owner of his property without due

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

process of law; that, when private property was devoted to a
public use, it was subject to public regulation; that Munn and
Scott, in conducting the business of their warehouse, pursued
a public employment and exercised a sort of public office, in
the same sense as did a common carrier, miller, ferryman,
inn-keeper, wharfinger, baker, cartman or hackney coachman;
that they stood in the very gateway of commerce and took
toll fnom all who passed; that their business tended "to a
common charge," and hadbecome a thing of public interest
and use.; that the toll on the grain was a common charge;
and that, -according to Lord Chief Justice Hale, every such
warehouseman "ought to be under a public regulation, viz.:"
that -he "take but reasonable toll."
This court further held in .Munn v. iMinois, that the business
in question was one in which the whole public had a direct and
positive interest; that the statute of Illinois simply extended
the law so as to meet a new development of commercial progress; that there was no attempt to compel the owners of the
warehouses to grant the public an interest in their property,
but to declare their obligations if they used it in that particular manner; that it mattered not that IMunn and Scott had
built their .warehouses and established their business before
the regulations complained of were adopted; that, the property
being clothed with a public interest, what was a reasonable
compensation for its use was not a judicial, but a legislative
question; that, in countries where the common law prevailed,
it had been customary from time immemorial for-the legislature to declare what should be a reasonable compensation under
such circumstances, or to fix a maximum beyond which any
charge made would be unreasonable; that the warehouses of
Munn and Scott were situated in Illinois and their business
was carried on exclusively in that State; that the warehouses
were no more necessarily a part of commerce itself than the
dray or the cart by which, but for them, grain would be transferred from one railroad station to another; that their regulation was, a thing of domestic concern; that, until Congress
acted in reference to their interstate relations, the State might
exercise all the powers of government over them, even though

BUDD v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

in so doing it might operate indirectly upon commerce outside
its immediate jurisdiction; and that the provision of § 9 of
article 1 of the Constitution of the United States operated
only as a limitation of the powers of Congress, and -did not affect the States in the regulation of their domestic affairs. The
final conclusion of the court was, that the act of Illinois was
not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States; and
the judgment was affirmed.
In Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 47, Mr. Justice Bradley, who was one of the justices who concurred in the opinion
of the court in .Xunnv. Illinois, speaking of that case, said:
"The inquiry there was as to the extent of the police power in
cases where the public interest is affected; and we held that
when an employment or business becomes a matter of such
public interest and importance as to create a common charge
or burden upon the citizen; in other words, when it becomes
a practical monopoly, to which the citizen is compelled to resort, and by means of which a tribute can be exacted from the
community, it is subject to regulation by the legislative power.!'
Although this was said in a dissenting opinion in Sinking
Fund Cases, it shows what Mr. Justice Bradley regarded as
the principle of the decision in .Munn v. .illinois.
In Spring Valley Wfate- Works v. Schottler, 110 U. S. 347,
354, this court said: "That it is within the power of the government to regulate the prices at which water shall be sold by
one who enjoys a virtual monopoly of the sale, we do not doubt..
That question is settled by what was decided on full consideration in 3-!run. v. Illinois,94 U. S. 113. As was said in that
case, such regulations do not deprivE a person of his property
without due process of law."
In Wabash &c. Railway Co. v. illinois, 118 U. S.557, 569,
Mr. Justice Miller, who ha'd concurred in the judgment in
X.unn v. Illinois, referred, in delivering the opinion of the
court, to that case, and said: "That case presented the question of a private citizen, or unincorporated partnership, engaged in the warehousing business in Chicago, free from any
claim of right or contract under an act of incorporation of any
State whatever, and free from the question of continuous

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the .Oourt.

transportation through several States. And in that case the
court was presented with the question, which it decided,
whether any one engaged in a public business, in which all the
public had a right to require his service, could be regulated by
acts of the legislature in the exercise of this public function

and public duty, so far as to limit the amount of charges that
'should be made for such services."
In Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680, 686, it was said by
Mr. Justice Gray, in delivering the opinion of the court, that in
.Xunn v. .Illinois the court; after affirming the doctrine that
by the common law carriers or other persons exercising a public
employment could not charge more than a reasonable compensation for their services, and that it is within the power of the
legislature "to declare what shall be a reasonable compensation for such services, or, perhaps more properly speaking, to
fix a maximum beyond which any charge made would be unreasonable," said that to limit the rate of charges for services
rendered in the public employment, or for the use of property
in which the public has an interest, was only changing a regulation which existed before, and established no new principle
in the law, but only gave a new effect to an old one.
In C0ticago -Co. Railroad Co. v. _finnesota, 134 U. S. 418,
461, it was said by Air. Justice Bradley, in his dissenting opinion, in which Mr. Justice Gray and Mr. Justice Lamar concurred, that the decision of the court in that case practically
overruled .funrm v. Illinois; but the opinion of the court did
not say so, nor did it refer to .'Unn v. Illinois; and we are
of opinion that the decision in the case in 1341 U. S. is, as will
be hereafter shown, quite distinguishable from the present
cases.
It is thus apparent that this court has adhered to the decision in 31runn, v. Illinois and to the doctrines announced in
the opinion of the court in that case; and those doctrines
have since been repeatedly enforced in the decisions of the
courts of the States.
In .Railway v. Railway, 30 Ohio St. 604, 616, in 1817, it
was said, citing Lnn,, v. Illinois: "When the owner of property devotes it to a public use, he, in effect, grants to the public

BUDD v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

an interest in such use, and must, to the extent of the use, submit to be controlled by the public, for the common good, as
long as he maintains the use." That was a decision by the
Supreme Court Commission of Ohio.
In State v. Gas Gompany, 34 Ohio St. 572, 582, in 1878,
Jfwin v. Illinois was cited with approval, as holding that
where the owner of property devotes it to a use in which the
public have an interest, he in effect grants to the public an interest in such use, and must, to the extent of that interest,
submit to be controlled by the public, for the common good,
so long as he maintains the use; and the court added that in
.Munnv. Illinois the principle was applied to warehousemen
engaged in receiving and storing grain; that it was held that
their rates of charges were subject to legislative regulation;
and that the principle applied with greater force to corporations
when they were invested with franchises to be exercised to
subserve the public interest.
The Supreme Court of Illinois, in Rii'gles v. People, 91
Illinois, 25, 262 , in 1878, cited ib'n v. People, 69 Illinois,
80, which was affirmed in .funn, v. Illinois, as holding that it
was competent for the general assembly to ftx the maximum
charges by individuals keeping public warehouses for storing,
handling and shipping grain, and that, too, when such persons
had derived no special privileges from the State, but were, as
citizens of the State, exercising the business of storing and
handling grain for individuals.

The Supreme Court of Alabama, in Davis v. The State, 68
Alabama, 58, in 1880, held that a statute declaring it unlawful, within certain counties, to transport or move, after sunset
and before sunrise of the succeeding day, any cotton in the
seed, but permitting the owner or purchaser to remove it from
the field to. a place of sforage, was not unconstitutional.
Against the argument that the statute was such a despotic
interference wvith the rights of private property as to be tantamount, in its practical effect, to a deprivation of ownership
"without due process of law," the court said that the statute
sought only to regulate and control the transportation of
cotton in one particular condition of it, and was a mere police

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

regulation, to which there ias no constitutional objection,
citing .Munn v. Illinois. "It added, that the object of the
statute was to regulate traffic in the staple agricultural
product of the State, so as to prevent a prevalent evil, which,
in the opinion of the law-making power, might do much to
demoralize agricultural labor and to destroy the legitimate
profits of agricultural pursuits, to the public detriment, at
least within the specified territory.
In. Baker v. The State, 54 Wisconsin, 368, 373, in 1882,
-Munn v. Illinois was citei with approval by the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin, as holding that the legislature of Illinois
had power to regulate public warehouses, and the warehousing and inspection of grain vithin that State, and to enforce
its regulations by penalties, and that such legislation was not
in conflict with any provision of the Federal Constitution.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky, in 1882, in rash v. Page;
80 Kentucky, 539, 545,' cited funn v. Illinois, as applicable
to the case of the proprietors of tobacco warehouses in the
city of Louisville, and held that the character of the business
of the tobacco warehousemen was that of a public employment, such as made them subject, in their charges and their
mode of conducting business, to legislative regulation and
control, as having a practical monopoly of the sales of tobacco
at auction.
In 1884, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in Girard
Storage Co. v. Southwark Co., 105 Penn. St. 248; 252, cited
.Munn v. Illinois as involving the rights of a private person,
and said that the principle involved in the ruling of this court
was, that where the owner of such property as a warehouse
devoted it to a use in which the public had an interest, he in
effect granted to the public an interest in such use, and must,
therefore,' to the extent thereof, submit to be controlled by
the public for the common good, as long as he maintained
that use.
In SawySr v. ,Davis, 136 Mass. 239, in 1881, the Supreme.
Judicial Court of Massachusetts said that nothing is better
established than the power of the legislature to make what
are called police regulations, declaring in what manner prop-

BUDD v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

erty shall be used and enjoyed and business carried on, with a
view to the good order and benefit of the community, even
though they may interfere to some extent with the full enjoyment of private property, and although no compensation is
given to a person so inconvenienced; and ffunn v. Illinois
was cited as holding*that the rules of the common law which
had from time to time been established, declaring or limiting
the right to use or enjoy property, might themselves be
changed as occasion might require. •
The Supreme Court of Indiana, in 1885, in Brechbill-v.
Randall,102 Indiana, 528, held that a statute was valid which
required persons selling patent rights to file with the clerk of
the county a copy of the patent, with an affidavit of genuineness and authority to sell, on the ground that the State had
power to make police regulations for th6 protection of its
citizens against fraud and imposition; and the court cited.
M£unn v. 1 llinois,as authority.
The Supreme Court of iNebraska, in 1885, in Webster Telephone Cace, 17 iNebraska, 126, held that when a corporation
or person assumed and undertook to supply a public demand,
made necessary by the requirements of the commerce of the
country, such as a public telephone, such demand must be
supplied to all alike, without discrimination , and f funn,. v.
ilUnois was cited by the prevailing party and by the court.
The defendant was a corporation, and had assumed to act in
a capacity which was to a great extent public, and had undertaken to satisfy a public want or necessity, although it did
not possess any special privileges by statute or any monopoly
of business in a given territory; yet 'it was held that, from
the very nature and character of its business, it had a monopoly
of the business which it transacted. The court said that no
statute had been deemed necessary to aid the courts in holding
that where~a person or company undertook to supply a public
demand, which was "affected with a public interest," it ml'-t
supply all alike who occupied a like situation, and not ciiscriminate in favor of or against any.
In Sto.ne v. Yazoo & .lbss. VFalley R. Co., 62 Mississippi,
607, 639, the Supreme Court of Mississippi, in 1885, cited

OCTOBER TERMT, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

.iun v. Illinoisas deciding that the regulation of warehouses
for the storage of grain, owned by private individuals, and
situated in Illinois, was a thing of domestic concern and pertained to the State, and as affirming-The right of the State to
regulate the business of one engaged in a public employment
therein, although that business consisted in storing and transferring immense quantities of grain in its transit from the
fields of production to the markets of the world.
In Hockett v. The State, 105 Indiana, 250, 258, in 1885, the
Supreme Court of Indiana held that a statute of the State
which prescribed the maximum price which a telephone company should charge for the use of its telephones was constitutional, and that in legal contemplation all the instfuments and
appliances used by a telephone company in the transaction of
its business were devoted to a public use, and the property
thus devoted became a legitimate subject of legislative regulation. It cited -Munn v. Illinois as a leading case in support
of that proposition, and said that although that case had been:
the subject of comment and criticism, its authority as a precedent remained unshaken. This doctrine was confirmed in
Central Union Telephone Co. v. Bradbury, 106 Indiana, 1,
in the same year, and in Central Union Telephone Co. v. The
Sate, 118 Indiana, 194, 207, in 1888, in which latter case
.Awnn v. Illinois was cited by the court.
In Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co. v. Balto. & Ohio
Telegraph Co., 66 Maryland, 399, 414, in 1886, it was held
that the telegraph and the telephone were public vehicles of
intelligence, and those who owned or controlled them could
no more refuse to perform impartially the functions which
they had assumed to discharge than a railway company, as a
common carrier, could -rightfully refuse to perform its duty
to the public; and that the legislature of the State had full
power to regulate the services of telephone companies, as to
the parties to whom facilities should be furnished. The court
cited .IunA v. Illinois, and said that it could no longer be
controverted that the legislature of a State had full power to
regulate and control, at least within reasonable limits, public
employments and property used in connection therewith; that

BUDD- v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

the operation of the telegTaph and the telephone in doing a
general business was a public employment, and the instruments
and appliances used were property devoted to a public use and
in which the public had an interest; and that, such being the
case, the owner of the property thus devoted to public use
must submit to have that use and employment regulated by
public authority for the common good.
In the Court of Chancery of iNew Jersey, in 1889, in .Dela@vatre &e. Railroad CJo. v. CentraZ Stock- Yard Co., 45 N. J.
Eq. 50, 60, it was held that the legislature had power to
declare what services warehousemen should render to the
public, and to fix the compensation that might be demanded
for such services; and the court cited fAbtnn v. I71inois as
properly holding that warehouses for the storage of grain
muist be regarded as so far public in their nature as to be
subject to legislative control, and that when a citizen devoted
his property to a use in which the' public had an interest, he
in effect granted to the public an interest in that use, and
ren~lered himself subject to control, in that use, by the body
politic.
In Zanesville v. Ga&-Zght Company, 47 Ohio St. 1, in 1889,
it was said by the Supreme Court of Ohio, that the principle
was well established, that where the owner of property devotes it to a use in which the public have an interest, he in
effect grants to the public an interest in such use, and must
to the extent of that interest submit to be-controlled by the
public for the common good, as long as he maintains the use;
and that such was the point of the decision in XJ!unn v.
Illinois.
We must regard the principle maintained in 3funn v. liiivois as fmuly established; and we think it covers the present
cases, in respect to the charge for elevating, receiving, weighing *and discharging the grain, as well as in respect to the
charge for trimming and shovelling to the leg of the elevator
when loading, and trimming the cargo when loaded. If the
shovellers or scoopers chose, they might do the shovelling by
hand, or might use a steam-shovel. A steam-shovel is owned
by the elevator owner, and the power for operating it is fur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

-nished by the engine of the elevator; and if the scooper uses
the steam-shovel, he pays the elevator owner for the use
of it.
The answer to the suggestion that by the statute the elevator owner is forbidden to make any profit from the business
of shovelling to the leg_ of the elevator is that made by the
Court of Appeals of New York in the case of Budd, that the
words "actual cost," used in the statute, were intended to
exclude any charge by the elevator owner, beyond the sum
specified for the use of his machinery in shovelling and the
ordinary expenses of operating it, and to confine the charge
to the actual cost of the outside labor required for trimmiig
and bringing the grain to the leg of the elevator; and that
the purpose of the statute could be easily evaded -and defeated
if the elevator owner was permitted t6 separate the services,
and to charge for the use of his steam-shovel any sum which
might be agreed upon between himself and the shovellers'
union, and thereby, under color of charging for the use of his
steam-shovel, to exact of the barrier a sum for elevating
beyond the rate fixed by the statute.
We are of opinion that the act of the legislature of New
York is not contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, and does not deprive the
citizen of his property without due process of law; that
the act, in fixing the maximum charges which it specifies, is
not unconstitutional, nor is it so in limiting the charge for
shovelling to the actual cost thereof; -and that it is a proper
exercise of the police power of the State.
On the testimony in the cases before us the business of elevating grain is a business charged with a public interest, and
those who carry it on occupy a relation to the community
analogoiis to that of common carriers. The elevator owner,
in fact, retains the grain in his custody for an appreciable
period of time, because he receives it into his custody, weighs
it, and then discharges it, and his employment is thus analogous to that of a warehouseman. In the actual state of the
business the passage of the grain to the city of New York and
other places on the seaboard would, without the use of eleva-

BUDD v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

tors,. be practically impossible. The elevator at Buffalo is a
link in the chain of transportation to the seaboard, and the
elevator in the harbor of New York is a like link in the transportation abroad by sea. The charges made by the elevator
influence the price of grain at the point of destination on the
seaboard, and that influence extends to the prices of grain at
the places abroad to which it goes. The elevator is devoted
by its owner, who engages in the business, to a use in which
the public has an interest, and he must submit to be controlled
by public legislation for the common good.
It is contended in the briefs for the plaintiffs in error in the
Annan and Pinto cases that the business of the relators m
handling grain was wholly private, and not subject to regulation by law; and that they had received from the State no
charter, no privileges and n6 immunity, and stood before the
law on a footing with the laborers they employed to shovel
grain, and were no more subject to regulation than any other
individual in the community. But these same facts existed in
Xunn, v. Illinois. In that case, the parties offending were
private individuals, doing a private business, without any privilege or monopoly granted to them by the State. Not only is
the business of elevating grain affected with a public interest,
but the records show that it is an actual monopoly, besides
being incident to the business of transportation and to that of
a common carrier, and thus of a quasi-public character. The act
is also constitutional as an exercise of the police power of the
State.
So far as the statute in question is a regulation of commerce,
it is a regulation of commerce only on the waters of the State
of New York. It operates only within the limits of that
State, and is no.more obnoxious as a regulation of interstate
commerce than was the statute of Illinois in respect to warehouses, in -Yunn, v. Illinois. It is of the same character with
navigation laws in respect to navigation within the State, and
laws regulating wnarfage rates within the State, and other
dndred laws.
It isfurther contended that, under the decision of this court
in .Chicao&c. Railway Co. v. Minne8ota, 13- U. S. 418, the
VOL. cxLm-35

OCTOBER TERAIV,

189L

Opinion of the Court.

ffixing of elevator charges is a judicial question, as to whether
they are reasonable or not; that the statute must permit and
provide for a judicial settlement of the charges; and that, by
the statute under consideration, an arbitrary rate is fixed and
all inquiiy is precluded as to whether that rate is reasonable
or not.
But this is a misapprehension of the decision of this court
in the case referred to. In that case, the legislature 6f Mlinnesota had passed an act which established a railroad and warehouse commission, and the Supreme Cqurt of' that State had
interpreted the act as providing that the rates of charges for
the transportation of property by railroads, recommended and
published by the commission, should be final and conclusive
as to what were equal and reasonable charges, and that there'
could be no judicial inquiry as to the reasonableness of such
rates. A railroad company, in answer to an application for a
mandamus, contended that such ratesi in regard to it were
unreasonable, and, as it was not allowed by the State Court to
put in testimony in support of its answer, on the question of
the rcasonablehess of such rates, this court held that the statute was in conflict with the Constitution of the United States,
as depriving the company of its property without due process
of law, and depriving it of the equal protection of the laws.
That was a very different case from one under the statute of
:New York in question here, for in this instance the rate of
charges is fixed directly by the legislature. See Sypencer v. fferchlid, 125 U. S. 345, 356. What was said in the opinion of the
court in 134 U. S. had reference only to the case then before
the court, and to charges fixed by a commission appointed
under an act of the legislature, under a Constitution of the
State which provided that all corporations, being common
carriers, should be bound to carry "on equal and reasonable
terms," and under 4 statute which provided that all charges
made by a common carrier for the transportation of passengers or property should be "equal and reasonable."
What was said in the opinion in 134 U. S., as to the question of the reasonableness of the rate of charge being one for
judicial investigation, had no reference to a case where the

BUDD v. NEW YORK.
Opinion of the Court.

rates are prescribed directly by the legislature. Not only was
that the case in the statute of Illinois in -1unn v. Illinois, but
the doctrine was laid down by this court in TFabash &c. Rail
way Go. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557, 568, that it was the right of
a State to establish limitations upon the power of railroad
companies to fix the price at which they would carry passengers and freight, and that the question was of the same
character as that involved in fixing the charges to be made by
persons engaged in the warehousing business. So, too, in J)ow
v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680, 686, it was said that it was within
the power of the legislature to declare what should be a reasonable compensation for the services of persons exercising a
public employment, or to fix a maximum beyond which any!
charge made would be unreasonable.
But in Dow v. Beidelrman, after citing M1unn v. illinois, 94
U. S. 113; Chdcago, Burlington & Quincy Railroadv. Iowa,
94 U. S. 155, 161, 162; Peik v. Ciicago & 3Toptkwestern Railway, 94 U. S. 164, 178; Clicago, .Afilwaukee & St. Paul Railroad v. Ackley, 94 U. S. 179; Tfinona & St. Peter Railroad
v. Blake, 94 U. S. 180; $tone v. TFisconsin, 94 U. S. 181;
Ruggles v. Illinois, 108 U. S. 5.26; Zlinois Ceptral Railroad
v. illinois, 108 U. S. 541; Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trutt
CO., 116 U. S. 307; Stone v. illinois Central Railroad, 116
U. S. 347; and Stone v. lVew Orleans & .Yortheastern Railroad, 116 U. S. 352, as recognizing the doctrine that the legislature may itself fix a maximum beyond which any charge
would be unreasonable, in respect to services rendered in a
public employment, or for the use of property in which the
public has an interest, subject to the proviso that such power
of limitation or regulation is not without limit, and is not a
power to destroy, or a power to compel the doing of the services
without reward, or to take private .property for public usp
without just compensation or without due process of law, fte
court said that it ha( no means, "if it would under any circumstances have the power," of determining that the rate fixed by
the legislature in that case was unreasonable, and that it did
not appear that there had been any such confiscation of property as amounted to a taking of it without due process of law,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: -Brewer, Field, Brown, JJ.

or that there had been any denial of the equal protection of
the laws.
In the cases before us, the records do not show that the
charges fixed by the statute are unreasonable, or that property has been taken without due process of law, or that there
has been any denial of the equal protection of the laws; even
if under any circumstances we could determine that the maximum rate fixed by the legislature was unreasonable.
In Georgia Banking Co. v. Smith, 128 1U. S. 174, 179, in
the opinion of the court, delivered by AIr. Justice Field, it
was said that this court had adjudged in numerous instances
that the legislature of a State had the power to prescribe the
charges of a railroad company for the carriage of persons and
merchandise within its limits, in the absence of any contract
to. the contrary, subject to the limitation that the carriage is
not required without reward, or upon conditions aa. ounting to
the taking of property for public use without just compensation, and that what is done does not amount to a regulation of
foreign or interstate commerce.
It is furthe contended for the plaintiffs in error that the
statute in question violates the Fourteenth Amendment, because it takes from the elevator owners the equal protection
of the laws, in that it applies only to places which have 130,-.
000 population or more, and does not apply to places which
have less than 130,000 population, and thus operates against
elevator owners in the larger cities of the State. The laxv
operates equally on all elevator owners in places having 130,000 population or more; and we do not perceive how they
are deprived of the equal protection of the laws, within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgments afflrmed.
MR. JUsTIcE BREwER, witi whom concurred

MR. JusriE

Finwm and i. JusTicE Bnow-q, dissenting.
I' dissent from the opinion and judgment in these cases.
The main proposition upon which they rest is, in my judgment,
radically unsound. It is the doctrine of _unn v. Illinois, 91

BUDD v. NEW YORK.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Field, Brown, JJ

U. S. 113, reaffirmed. That is, as declared in the syllabustand
stated in the opinion, in that case: "When, therefore, one
devotes his property to a use in which the public has an
interest, he, in effect, grants to the public an interest in that
use, and must submit to be controlled by the public for the
common good, to the extent of the interest, he has thus
created." The elaborate discussions of the question in the
dissenting opinions in that case, and the present cases when
under consideration in the Court of Appeals of the State of
New York, seem to forbid anything more than a general
declaration 6f dissent. The vice of the, doctrine is, that it
places a public interest in the use of property upon the same
basis as a public use of property. Property is devoted to a
public use when, and only when, the use is one which the
public in its organized capacity, to wit, the State, has a right
to create and maintain, and, therefore, 6ne which all the
public have a right to demand and share in. The use is public,
because the public may create it, and the individual creating
it is doing thereby and pro tanto the work of the State. The
creation of all highways is a public duty. Railroads are highways. The State may build .them. If an individual does
that work, he ispro tanto doing the work of the State. He
devotes his property to a public use. The State doing the
work fixes the price for the use. It does not lose the right to
fix the price, because an individual voluntarily undertakes to
do the work. But this public use is very different from a
public interest in the use. There is scarcely any property in
whose use the public has no interest. No man liveth unto
himself alone, and no man's property is beyond the touch of
another's welfare. Everything, the manner 'and extent of
whose use affects the well-being of others, is property ir whose
use the public has an interest. Take, for instance, the only
store in a little village. All the public of that village are
interested in it; interested in the quantity and quality of the
goods on its shelves, and their prices, in the time at which it
opens and closes, and, generally, in the way in which it is
managed; in short, interested in the use. Does it follow that
that village public has a right to control these matters? That

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Field, Brown, JJ.

which is true of the single small store in the village, is also
true of the largest mercantile establishment in the great city.
The magnitude of the business does not change the principle.
There may be more individuals interested, a larger public, but
still the public. The country merchant who has a small warehouse in which the neighboring farmers are wont to store
their potatoes and grain preparatory to shipment occupies the
same position as the proprietor of the largest elevator in New
York. The public has in each case an interest in the use, and
the same interest, no more and no less. I cannot bring myself to believe that when the owner of property has by his
industry, skill and money made a certain piece of his property
of large value to many, he has thereby deprived himself of
the full dominion over it which he had when it was of comparatively little value; nor can I believe that the control of
the public over one's property or business is at all dependent
upon the extent to which the public is benefited by it.
Surely the matters in which the public has the most interest,
are the supplies of food and clothing; yet can it be that by
reason of this interest the State may fix the price at which
the butcher must sell his meat, or the vendor of boots and
shoes his goods? Men are endowed by their Creator with
certain unalienable rights, "life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness;" and to "secure," not grant or create, these rights
governments are instituted. That property which a man has
honestly acquired he retains full control of, subject to these
limitations: First, that he shall not use it to his neighbor's
injury, and that does not mean that he must use it for his
neighbor's benefit; second, that if he devotes it fo a public
use, he gives to the public a right to control that use; and,
third, that whenever the public needs require, the public may
take it upon payment of due compensation.
It is suggested that there is a monopoly, and that that
justifies legislative interference. There are two kinds of
monopoly; one of law, the other of fact. The one exists
when exclusive privileges are granted. Such a monopoly, the
law which creates alone can break; and being the creation of
law justifies legislative cbntroL A monopolr of fact any one

BUDD v. NEW YORK.
ssenting Opinion: Brewer, Field, Brown, JJ.

,an break, and there is no necessity for legislative interference. It exists where any one by his money and labor furnishes facilities for business which no one else has. A man
puts up in a city the only building suitable for offices. He
has therefore a monopoly of that business; but it is a monopoly of fact, which any one can break who, with like business
courage puts his means into a similar building. Because of
the monopoly feature, subject thus easily to be broken, may
the legislature regulate the.price at which he will lease his
offices? So, here, there are no exclusive privileges given to
these elevators. They are not upon public ground. If the
business is profitable, any one can build another; the field is
open for all the elevators, and all the competition that may
be desired. If there be a monopoly, it is one of fact and not
of law, and one which any individual can break.
The paternal theory of government is to me odious. The
utmost possible liberty to the individual, and the fullest possible protection to him and his property, is both.the limitation
and-duty of government. If it may regulate the price of one
service, which is not a public service, pr the compensation for
the use of one kind of property which is not devoted to a
public use, -why may it not with equal reason regulate the
price of all service, and the compensation to be paid for the
use of all property? And if so, "Looking Backward" is
nearer than a dream.
I dissent especially in these cases, becauge the statute in
effect compels service without any compensation. ' It provides
that the parties seeking the service of the elevator "shall
only be required to pay the actual cost of trimming or shovelling to the leg of the elevator when unloading, and trimming
cargo when loading." This work of trimming or shovelling is
fully explained in the briefs of counsel. It is work performed
by longshoremen with hand-scoops or shovelS, on the -vessel
unloading or receiving the grain. They are not in the regular employ of the elevator; but engaged in an independent
service, and yet one whose careful and skilful performance is
essential to the successful transfer of grain iAto and through
the elevator. The full service required of the elevator corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Field, Brown, JJ.

pels its proprietor to employ -and superintend the work of
these longshoremen. For this work of employment, and
superintendence, and for the responsibility for the proper
performance of their work, the act says that the proprietor of
the elevator shall receive no compensation; he can charge
only that which he pays out, the actual cost. I t ad supposed
that no man could be required to render any service to another individual without some compensation.
Again, in the Pinto Case, it appears that A&r. Pinto is the
owner of a stationary elevator, built oi private grounds. It is
not of grounds devoted to a public use, like the right of way
of a railroad company. There is nothing to indicate on his
part a purpose to dedicate his property to public uses. So far
as it is possible to make the business of an elevator a purely
private business, he has done so. It will not do to say that
the transferring of grain through an elevator is one step in
the process of transportation; and, that, therefore, they are
quasi common carriers, discharging a public duty, and subject
to public control. They are not carriers in any proper sense
of the term. They may. facilitate carriage; so does the boxing and packing of goods for transportation. The engineers,
firemen, brakelen, and all the thousands of employ~s of a
railroad company are helping the business of transportation;
but are they all common carriers simply bebause their work
tends to facilitate the business of transportation; and may the
legislature regulate their wages?
But, as I said, I do not care to enter into any extended discussion of the matter. I believe the time is not distant when.
the evils resulting from this assumption of a power on the part
of government to determine the compensation a man may recieve for the use of his property, or the performance of his per-,
sonal services, will become so apparent that the courts will
hasten to declare that government can prescribe compensation
only when it grants a special privilege, as in the creation of a
corporation, or when the'service which is rendered is a public
service, or the property is in fact devoted to a public use.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD

in this dissent.

and MR.. JusTicn- B~owx concur with me

