MICHELSON v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

MICHELSON v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 23.

Argued October 14-15, 1948.-Decided December 20, 1948.

1. In a trial in a federal court for bribery of a federal officer, the
defendant admitted the payment but claimed that it wa: jduced
by the officer, and the case hinged on whether the jury believed
the defendant or the officer. The defendant's character witnesses
testified that they had known the defendant for from 15 to 30
years and that he had a good reputation for "honesty and truthfulness" and for "being a law-abiding citizen." In cross-examining
them, the prosecutor was permitted to ask whether they had
heard that the accused had been arrested 27 years previously
for receiving stolen goods. The trial judge had satisfied himself
in the absence of the jury that the question related to an actual
occurrence, and he carefully instructed the jury as to the limited
purpose of this evidence. Held: In the circumstances of this case
and in view of the care taken by the trial judge to protect the
rights of the defendant, permitting the prosecutor to ask this
question was not reversible error. Pp. 470-487.
2. The law does not invest the defendant with a presumption of
good character; it simply closes the whole matter of character,
disposition and reputation on the prosecution's case-in-chief. The
defendant may introduce evidence tending to prove his good
reputation; but, if he does so, it throws open the entire subject
and the prosecution may then cross-examine defendant's witnesses
to test their credibility and qualifications and may also introduce
contradictory evidence. Pp. 475-479.
3. Both the propriety and abuse of hearsay reputation testimony,
on both sides, depend on numerous and subtle consideitttions, difficult to detect or appraise from a cold record. Therefore, rarely
and only on clear showing of prejudicial abuse of discretion, will
appellate courts disturb rulings of trial courts on this subject.
P. 480.
4. In this case, the trial judge was scrupulous to safeguard the practice against any misuse. P. 481.
5. A character witness may be cross-examined as to knowledge of
rumors of defendant's prior arrest, whether or not it culminated
in a conviction. Pp. 482-483.
798176 0-49----35

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

6. It is not only by comparison with the crime on trial but by comparison with the reputation asserted that a court may judge
whether the prior arrest should be made the subject of inquiry.
Pp. 483-484.
7. That the inquiry concerned an arrest 27 years before the trial
did. not make its admission 'an abuse of discreticn in the circumstances of this case-especially since two of the witnesses had
testified that they had known defendant for 30 years, defendant,
on direct examination, had voluntarily called attention to his conviction of a misdemeanor 20 years before, and since no objection
was made on this specific ground. P. 484.
8. Notwithstanding the difficulty which a jury might have in compreheriding instructions as to the limited purpose of such evidence,
a defendant who elects to introduce' witnesses to prove his good
reputation for honesty and truthfulness and for" being a law-abiding
citizen has no valid complaint about the latitude which existing
law allows to the prosecution to meet this issue by cross-examination of his character witnesses.. Pp. 484-485.
165 F. 2d 732, affirmed.

Petitioner was convicted in a federal district court of
bribing a federal officer. The Court of Appeals affirmed.
165 F. 2d 732. This Court granted certiorari. 333 U. S.
866.

Affirmed, p. 487.

Louis J. Castellano argued the cause for petitioner;
With him on the brief was DanielMcNamara.
Joseph M. Howard argued the cause for the United
States. With him .on the brief were Solicitor General
Perlman and Robert S. Erdahl.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In 1947 petitioner Michelson was convicted of bribing
a federal revenue agent.' The Government proved a
1 The first count charged petitioner with bribing in violation of 18
U. S. C. § 91 (now 18 U. S. C. § 201) and the affirmance of his conviction on this count by the Court of Appeals, 165 F. 2d 732, is the

MICHELSON v. UNITED STATES.
469

Opinion of the Court.

large payment by accused to the agent for the purpose
of influencing his official action. The defendant, as a witness on his own behalf, admitted passing the money but
claimed it was dope in response to the agent's demands,
threats, solicitatidhs, and inducements that amounted to
entrapment. It is enough for our purposes to say that
determination of the issue turned on whether the jury
should believe the agent or the accused.'
On direct examination of defendant, his own counsel
brought out that, in 1927, he had been convicted of a
misdemeanor having to do with trading in counterfeit
watch dials. On cross-examination it appeared that in
1930, in executing an application for a license to deal in
second-hand jewelry, he answered "No" to the question
whether he had theretofore been arrested or summoned
for any offense.
Defendant called five witnesses to prove that he enjoyed a good reputation. Two of them testified that
their acquaintance with him extended over a period of
about thirty years and the others said they had known
him at least half that long. A typical examination in
chief was as follows:
"Q. Do you know the defendant Michelson?
"A. Yes.
"Q. How long do you know Mr. Michelson?
"A. About 30 years.
"Q. Do you know other people who know him?
"A. Yes.
"Q. Have you had occasion to discuss his reputation for honesty and truthfulness and for being a
law-abiding citizen?
"A. It is very good.
judgment here under review. The second count charged "offering"
the bribe as a violation of the same statute but his conviction on this
count was reversed by the Court of Appeals and is not here involved.
2 Details appear in the Court of Appeals opinion, 165 F. 2d 732.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

"Q. You have talked to others?.
"A. Yes.
"Q. And what is his reputation?
"A. Very good."
These are representative of answers by three witnesses;
two others replied, in substance, that they never had
heard anything against Michelson.
On cross-examination, four of the witnesses were asked,
in substance, this question: "Did you ever hear that Mr.
Michelson on March 4, 1927, was convicted of a violation
of the trademark law in ,New York City in regard to
.watches?" This referred to the twenty-year-old conviction about 'which defendant himself had testified on direct
examination. Two of them had heard' of it and two had
not.
To four of these witnesses the prosecution also addressed the question the allowance of which, over defendant's objection, is claimed to be reversible error:
"Did you ever hear that on October 11, 1920, the
defendant, Solomon Michelson, was arrested for receiving stolen goods?"
None of the witnesses appears to have heard of this.
The trial court asked counsel for the prosecution, out
of presence of the jury, "Is it a fact according to the best
information in your possession, that Michelson was arrested for receiving stolen goods?" Counsel replied
that it was, and to support his good faith exhibited a paper
record which defendant's counsel did not challenge.
The judge also on three occasions warned the jury, in
terms that are not criticized, of the limited purpose for
which this evidence was received.'
'In ruling on the objection when the question was first asked, the
Court said:
I instruct the jury that what is happening now is this: the
defendant has called character witnesses, and the basis for the evi-

MICHELSON v. UNITED STATES.
469

Opinion of the Court.

Defendant-petitioner challenges the right of the
prosecution so to cross-examine his character witnesses.
The Court of Appeals held that it was permissible. The
opinion, however, points out that the practice has been
severely criticized and invites us, in one respect, to
change the rule.' Serious ahd responsible criticism has
dence given by those character witnesses is the reputaticn of the
defendant in the community, and since the defendant tenders the
issue of his reputation the prosecution. may ask the witness if she has
heard of various incidents in his career. I say to you that regardless
of her answer you are not to assume that the incidents, asked about
actually took place. All that is happening is that this witness' standard of opinion of the reputation of the defendant is being tested.
Is that clear?"
In overruling the second objection to the question the Court

said:
"Again I say to the jury there is no proof that Mr. Michelson was
arrested for receiving stolen goods in 1920, there isn't any such
proof. All this witness has been asked is whether be had heard
of that. There is nothing before you on that issue. Now would
you base your decision on the case fairly in spite of the fact that
that question has been asked? You would? All right."
The charge included the following:
"In connection with the character evidence in the case I permitted
a question whether or not the witness knew that in 1920 this defendant
had been arrested for receiving stolen goods. I tried to give you
fhe instruction then that that question was permitted only to test
the standards of character evidence that these character witnesses
seemed to have. There isn't any proof in the case that could be
produced before. you legally within the rules of evidence that this
defendant was arrested in 1920 for receiving stolen goods, and that
fact you are not to hold against him; nor are you to assume what
the consequences of that arrest were.. You just drive it from your
mind so far as he is concerned, and take it into consideration only
in weighing the evidence of the character witnesses."
4Footnote 8 to that court's opinion reads as follows:
"Wigmore, Evidence (3d ed. 1940) § 988, after noting that 'such
inquiries are almost universally admitted,' not as 'impeachment by
extrinsic testimony of particular acts of misconduct,' but as means
of testing the character 'witness' grounds of knowledge,' continues

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

been aimed, however, not alone at the detail now questioned by the Court of Appeals but at common-law doctrine on the whole subject of proof of reputation or
character.' It would not be possible to appraise the
with these comments: 'But the serious objection to them is that practically the above distinction-between rumors of such conduct, as
affecting reputation, and the fact of it as violating the rule against
particular facts-cannot be maintained in the mind of the jury. The
rumor of the misconduct, when admitted, goes far, in spite of all
theory and of the judge's charge, towards fixing the misconduct as
a fact upon the other person, and thus does three improper things,(1) it violates the fundamental rule of fairness that prohibits the use
of such facts, (2) it gets at them by hearsay only, and not by trustworthy testimony, and (3) it leaves the other person no means of
defending himself by denial or explanation, such as he would otherWise have had if the rule had allowed that conduct to be made the
subject of an issue. Moreover, these are not occurrences of possibility, but of daily practice. This method of inquiry or crossexamination is frequently resorted to by counsel for the very purpose of injuring by indirection a character which.they are forbidden
directly to attack in that way; they rely upon the mere putting of
the question (not caring that it is answered negatively) to convey
their covert insinuation. The value of the inquiry for testing purposes is often so small and the opportunities of its abuse by underhand ways are so great that the practice may amount to little more
than a mere subterfuge, and should be strictly supervised by forbidding it to counsel who do not use it in good faith.'
"Because, as Wigmore says, the jury almost surely cannot comprehend the judge's limiting instruction, the writer of this opinion
wishes that the United States Supreme Court would tell ut to follow
what appears to be the Illinois rule, i. e., that such questions are
improper unless they relate to offenses similai to those for which
the defendant is on trial. Se Aiken v. People, 183 Ill. 215, 55 N. E.
695; cf. People v. Hannon, 381 Il1. 206, 44 N. E. (2d) 923."
5A judge of long trial and appellate experience has uttered a warning which, in the opinion of the writer, we might well have heeded
in determining whether to grant certiorari here:
... evidence of good character is to be Vsed like any other, once
it gets before the jury, and the less they are told about the grounds
for its admission, or what they shall do with it, the more likely

MICHELSON v. UNITED STATES.
469

Opinion of the Court.

usefulness and propriety of this cross-examination without consideration of the unique practice concerning char-.
acter testimony, of which such cross-examination is a
minor part."
Courts that follow the common-law tradition almost
unanimously have come to disallow resort by the prosecution to any kind of evidence of a defendant's evil character to establish a probability of his guilt.7 Not that the
law invests the defendant with a presumption of.good
character, Greer v. United States, 245 U. S. 559, but it
simply closes the whole matter of character, disposition
and reputation on the prosecution's case-in-chief. The
state may not show defendant's prior trouble with the
law, specific criminal acts, or ill name among his neighbors, even though such facts might logically be persuasive
that he is by propensity a probable perpetrator of the
crime.' The inquiry is not rejected because character iB
they are to use it sensibly. The subject seems to gather mist which
discussion serves only to thicken, and which we can scarcely hope
to dissipate by anything further we can add." L. Hand in Nash
v. United States, 54 F. 2d 1006, 1007.
In opening its cyclopedic review of authorities from many jurisdictions, Corpus Juris Secundum summarizes that the rules regulating proof of character "have been criticized as illogical, unscientific,
and anomalous, explainable only as archaic survivals of compurgation
or of states of legal development when the jury personally knew
the facts on which their verdict was based." 32 C. J. S. Evidence
§ 433.
6See Maguire, Evidence: Common Sense and Common Law
(1947). Compare pp. 203-209 and pp. 74-76.
Greer v. United States, 245 U. S. 559; 1 Wigmore, Evidence
(3d ed., 1940) § 57; 1 Wharton, Criminal Evidence (11th ed., 19'5)
§ 330. This was not the earlier rule in English common law and is
not now the rule in some civil law countries. 1 Wigmore, Evidence
(3d ed., § 1940) § 193.
8 This would be subject to some qualification, as when a prior
crime is an element of the later offense; for example, at a trial for
being an habitual criminal. There are also well-established exceptions

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

irrelevant; 9 on the contrary, it is said to weigh too much
with the jury and to so overpersuade them as to prejudge
one with a bad general record and deny him a fair opportunity to defend against a particular charge. The overriding policy of excluding such evidence, despite its admitted probative value, is the practical experience that its

disallowance tends to prevent confusion of issues, unfair
surprise and undue prejudice,"
But this line of inquiry firmly denied to the State is
opened to the defendant because character is relevant in

resolving probabilities of guilt.11 He may introduce affirmative testimony that the general estimate of his character is so favorable that the jury may infer that he would
not be likely to commit the offense charged. This privilege is sometimes valuable to a defendant for this Court

has held that such testimony alone, in some circumstances,
may be enough to raise a reasonable doubt of guilt and
that in the federal courts a jury in a proper case should be
so instructed. Edgington v. United States, 164 U. S. 361.
where evidence as to other transactions or a course of fraudulent conduct is admitted to establish fraudulent intent as an element of the
crime charged. See, e. g., Fall v. United States, 60 App. D. C. 124,
49 F. 2d 506, certiorari denied, 283 U. S. 867; Hatem v. United States,
42 F. 2d 40, certiorari denied, 282 U. S. 887; Williamson v. United
States, 207 U. S. 425; Allis v. United States, 155 U. S. 117; Wood v.
United States, 16 Pet. 342.
9 As long ago as 1865, Chief Justice Cockburn said, "The truth
is, this part of our law is an anomaly. Although, logically speaking,
it is quite clear that an antecedent bad character would form quite
as reasonable a ground for the presumption and probability of guilt
as previous good character lays the foundation of innocence, yet
you cannot, on the part of the prosecution, go into evidence as to
bad character." Reg. v. Rowton, 10 Cox's @riminal Cases 25, 29-30.
And see 1 Wigmore, Evidence (3d ed., 1940) § 55.
10 1 Wigmore, Evidence (3d ed., 1940) § 57.
11 1 Wigmore, Evidence (3d ed., 1940) § 56; Underhill, Criminal
Evidence (4th ed., 1935) § 165; 1 Wharton, CriminalEvidence (11th
ed., 1935) §§ 330, 336.

MICHELSON v. UNITED STATES.
469

Opinion of the Court.

When the defendant elects to initiate a character inquiry, another anomalous rule comes into play. Not only
is he permitted to call witnesses to testify from hearsay,
but indeed such a witness is not allowed to base his testimony on anything but hearsay.12 What commonly is
called "character evidence" is only such when "character"
is employed as a synonym for "reputation." The witness,
may not testify about defendant's specific acts or courses
of conduct or his possession of a particular disposition or
of benign mental and moral traits; nor can he testify that
his own acquaintance, observation, a'nd knowledge of
defendant leads to his own independent opinion that
defendant possesses a good general or specific character,
inconsistent with commission of acts charged. The witness is, however, allowed to summarize what he has heard
in the community, although much of it may have been
said by persons less qualified to judge than himself.. The
evidence which the law permits is not as to-the personality
of defendant but only as to the shadow his daily life
has cast in his neighborhood. This has been well described in a different connection as "the slow growth of
months and years, the resultant picture of forgotten incidents, passing events, habitual and daily condfict, presumably honest because disinterested, and safer to be
trusted because prone to suspect . . . . It is for that
reason that such general, repute is permitted to be proven.'
It sums up a multitude of trivial details. It compacts
into the brief phrase of a verdict the teaching of many
incidents and the conduct of years. It is the average
intelligence drawing its conclusion." Finch, J., in Badger
v. Badger, 88 N. Y. 546, 552.
• While courts have recognized logical grounds for criticism of this type of opinion-based-on-hearsay testimony,
125

Wigmore, Evidence (3d ed., 1940) § 1609; Underhill, Criminal

-Evidence (4th-ed., 1935) § 170; 1 Wharton, Criminal Evidence (11th
ed., 1935) § 333.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

it is said to be justified by "overwhelming considerations
of practical convenience" in avoiding innumerable collateral issues which, if it were attempted to prove character by direct testimony, would com.plicate and confuse
the trial, distract the minds of jurymen and befog the
chief issues in' the litigation. People v. Van Gaasbeck,
189 N. Y. 408, 419, 82 N. E. 718, 721.
Another paradox in this branch of the law of evidence
is that the delicate and responsible task of compacting
reputation hearsay into the "brief phrase of a verdict"
is one of the few instances in which conclusions are
accepted from a witness on a subject in which he is not
an expert. However, the witness must qualify to give
an opinion by showing such acquaintance with the defendant, the community in which he has lived and the
circles in which he has moved, as to speak with authority
of the terms in which generally he is regarded. To
require affirmative knowledge of the reputation may seem
inconsistent with the latitude given to the witness to
testify when all he can sa, of the reputation is that he
has "heard nothing against defendant." This is permitted upon assumption that, if no ill is reported of one,
his reputation must be good. 3 But this answer is accepted only from a witness whose knowledge of defendant's habitat and surroundings is intimate enough so that
his failure to hear of any relevant ill repute is an assurance
that no ugly rumors were about.'
Thus the law extends helpful but illogical options to
a defendant. Experience taught a. necessity that they
1 People v. Van Gaasbeck, 189 N. Y. 408, 420. 82 N. E. 718, 722.
The law apparently ignores the existence of such human ciphers as
Kipling's Tomlinson, of whoi no ill is reported but no good can
be recalled. They win seats with the -righteous for character evidence
purposes, however hard their lot in literature.
14 Id.; 5 Wignore, Evidence (3d ed.; 1940) § 1614; Underhill,
Criminat Evidence (4th ed., 1935) § 171;. 1 Wharton, Criminal Evidence (l1th ed., 1935) § 334.

MICHELSON v. UNITED STATES.
469

Opinion of the Court.

be counterweighted with equally illogical Ctrnditions to
keep the advantage from becoming an unfair and unreasonable one. The price a defendant must pay for
attempting *to prove his good name is to throw open
the entire subject which the law has kept closed for his
benefit and to inake himself vulnerable *here the law
otherwise shields him. The prosecution may pursue the
inquiry with contradictory witnesses "5to show that damaging rumors, whether or not well-grounded, were afloatfor it is not the man that he is, but the name that .he
has which is put in issue. Another hazard is that his
own witness is subject to cross-examination as to the
contents and extent of the hearsay on which he bases
his conclusions, and he may be required to disdlose rumors
and reports that are current even if they do not affect
his own conclusion." It may test the sufficiency of his
knowledge by asking what stories were circulating concerning events, such as one's arrest, about .which people
normally-comment and speculate.. Thus, while the law
gives defendant the option to show as a fact that his
reputation reflects a life and' habit incompatible with
comroission of the offense charged, it subjects his proof
to tests of credibility designed to prevent him from profiting by a mere parade of partisans.
1 Wigmore, Evidence (3d ed., 1940) § 58; Undqrhill, Criminal
Evidence (4th ed., 1935) § 167; 1 Wharton, Criminal'Evidence (11th
ed., 1935) § 330.
16A classic example in the books is a character witness in a trial
for murder. She testified she grew up with defendant, knew his
reputation for peace and quiet, and that it was good. On crossexamination she was asked if she had heard that the defendant had
shot anybody and, if so, how many. She answered, "three or four,"
and gave the names of two but could not recall the names of the
others. She still insisted, however, that he was of "good character."
The jury seems to have valued her information more highly than
her judgment, and on appeal from conviction the cross-examination
was held proper. People v. Laudiero. 192 N. Y. 304, 309, 85 N. E.
132. See also People v. Elliott, 163 N. Y. 11, 57 N. E. 103.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

To thus digress from evidence as to the offense to
hear a contest as to the standing of the accused, at its
best opens a tricky line of inquiry as to a shapeless and
elusive subject matter. At its worst it opens a veritable
Pandora's box of irresponsible gossip, innuendo and
smear. In the frontier phase of our law's development,
calling friends to vouch for defendant's good character,
and its counterpart-calling the rivals and enemies of
a witness to impeach him by testifying that, his reputation
for veracity was so bad that he was unworthy of belief
on his oath-were favorite and frequent ways of converting an individual litigation into a community contest and
a trial into a spectacle. Growth of urban conditions,
where one may never know or hear the name of his nextdoor neighbor, have tended to limit the use of these techniques and to deprive them of weight with juries. The
popularity of both procedures has subsided, but courts
of 1hst resort have sought to overcome danger that the
true issues will be obscured and confused by investing
the trial court with discretion to limit the number of
such witnesses and to control cross-examination. Both
propriety and abuse of hearsay reputation testimony, on
both sides, depend on numerous and subtle considerations
difficult to detect or appraise from a cold record,, and
therefore rarely and only on clear showing of prejudicial
abuse of discretion will Courts of Appeals disturb rulings
of trial courts on this subject.17
Wide discretion is accompanied by heavy responsibility
on trial courts to protect the practice from any misuse.
11 See, e. g., Mannix v. United States, 140 F. 2d 250. It has been
held that the question may not be hypothetical nor assume unproven
facts and ask if they would affect the conclusion, Little v. United
States, 93 F. 2d 401; Pittman v. United States, 42 F. 2d 793; Filippelli
v. United States, 6 F. 2d 121; and that it may not be so asked as to
detail evidence or circumstances of a crime of which defendant was
accused. People v. Marendi, 213 N. Y. 600, 107 N. E. 1058. It

MICHELSON v. UNITED STATES.
469

481

)pinion of the Court.

The trial judge was scrupulous to so guard it in the case
before us. He took pains to ascertairt, out of presence
of the jury, that the target of the question was an actual
event, which would probably result in some comment
among acquaintances if not injury to defendant's reputation. He satisfied himself that counsel was not merely
taking a random shot at a reputation imprudently exposed
or asking a groundless question .to waft an unwarranted
innuendo into the jury box.18
The, question permitted by the trial court, however,
involves several features that may be worthy of comment."
Its form invited hearsay; it asked about an 'arrest, not
has been held 'error to use the question to get before the jury a
particular derogatory newspaper article. Sloan v. United States, 31
F. 2d 902. The proof has been confined to general reputation and
that among a limited group such as fellow employees in a particular
building held inadmissible. Williams v. United States, 168 U. S. 382.
18 This procedure was recommended by Wigmore. But analysis of
his innovation emphasizes the way in which law on this subject has
evolved from pragmatic considerations rather than from theoretical
consistency. The relevant information that it is permissible to lay
before the jury is talk or conversation about the defendant's being
arrested. That is admissible whether or not an actual arrest had
taken place; it might even be more significant of repute if his neighbors were ready to arrest him in rumor when the authorities were not
in fact. But before this relevant and proper inquiry can be made,
counsel must demonstrate privately to .the 'court an irrelevant and
possibly unprovable fact-the reality of arrest. From this permissible
inquiry about reports of arrest, the jury is pretty *certain to infer
that defendant had in fact been arrested and to draw its own conclusions as to character from that fact. The Wigmore suggestion
thus limits legally relevant inquiries to those based on legally irrelevant facts in order that the legally irrelevant conclusion which the
jury probably will draw from the relevant questions will not be based
on unsupported or untrue innuendo. It illustrates Judge Hand's sug•gestion that the system may work best when explained least. Yet,
despite its theoretical paradoxes and deficiencies, we approve the
procedure as calculated in practice to hold the inquiry within decent
bounds.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

a conviction, and for an offense not closely similar to the
one on trial; and it coRcerned an' occurrence many years
past.
Since the whole inquiry, as we have pointed out, is
calculated to ascertain the general talk of people about
defendant, rather than the witness' own knowledge of
him, the form of inquiry, "Have you heard?" has general
approval, and "Do you know?" is not allowed."
A character witness may be cross-examined as to an
arrest whether or not it culminated in a conviction, according to the overwhelming weight 'f authority.0 This
rule is sometimes confused with that which prohibits
cross-examination to credibility by asking a -witness
whether he himself has been arrested.
Arrest without more does not, in law any more than
in reason, impeach the integrity or impair the credibility
of a witness. It happens to the innocent as well as the
guilty. Only a conviction, therefore, may be inquired
about to undermine the trustworthiness of a witness.
Arrest without more may nevertheless impair or cloud
one's reputation. False arrest may do that. Even to be
acquitted may damage one's good name if the community
receives the verdict with a wink and chooses to remember
defendant as one who ought to have been convicted. A
conviction, on the other hand, may be accepted as a misfortune or an injustice, and even enhance the standing of
one who mends his ways and lives it down. Reputation
is the net balance of so many debits and credits that the
law does not attach the finality to a cofiviction, when
19 See Stewart v. United States, 70 App. D. C. 101, 104 F. 2d 234;
Little v. United States, 93 F. 2d 401; Filippelli y. United States, 6
F. 2d 121.
20 See Mannix v. United States, 140 F. 2d 250; Josey v. United
States, 77 U. S. Apo. D. C. 321, 135F. 2d 809; Spalitto v. United
States, 39 F. 2d 782, and authorities there cited.

MICHELSON V. UNITED STATES.
469

Opinion of the Court.

the issue is reputation, that is given to it when the issue
is the credibility of the convict.
The inquiry as to an arrest is permissible also because
the prosecution has a right to test the qualifications of
the witness to bespeak the community opinion. If one
never heard the speculations and rumors in which even
one's friends indulge upon his arrest, the jury may doubt
whether he is capable of giving any very reliable conclusions as to his reputation.
In this case the crime inquired about was receiving
stolen goods; the trial was for bribery. The Court of
Appeals thought this dissimilarity of offenses too great to
sustain the inquiry in logic, though conceding that it is
authorized by preponderance of authority. It asks us to
substitute the Illinois rule which allows inquiry about
arrest, but only for very closely similar if not7 identical
charges, in place of the rule more generally adhered toin this country and in England." We think the facts
of this case show the proposal to be inexpedient.
The good character which the defendant had sought
to establish was broader than the crime charged and
included the traits of "honesty and truthfulness" and
"being a law-abiding citizen." Possession of these characteristics would seem as incompatible with offering
a bribe to a revenue agent as with receiving stolen
goods. The crimes may be unli.!e, but both alike proceed from the same defects of chracter which the witnesses said this defendant was reputed not to exhibit.
It is not only by comparison with the crime on trial but
21 The

Supreie Court of Illinois, in considering its own rule

which we are urged to adopt, recognized that "'the rule adhered to'
in this State is not consistent with the great weight of authority in
this country. and in England." People v. Hannon, 381 Ill. 206, 209,
44 N. E. 2d 923. Authorities in all states are collected in 71 A. L. R.
1504.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

by comparison with the reputation asserted that a court
may judge whether the prior arrest should be made subject of inquiry. By this test the inquiry was permissible.
It was proper cross-examination because reports of his
arrest for receiving stolen goods, if admitted, would tend
to weaken the assertion that he was known as an honest
and law-abiding citizen. ,The cross-examination may
take in as much ground as the testimony it is designed
to verify. To hold otherwise would give defendant the
benefit of testimony that he was honest and law-abiding
in reputation when such might not be the fact; the refutation was founded on convictions equally persuasive
though not for crimes exactly repeated in the present
charge.
The inquiry here concerned an arrest twenty-seven
years before the trial. Events a generation old are likely
to be lived down and dropped from the present thought
and talk of the community and to be absent from the
knowledge of younger or more recent acquaintances. The
court in its discretion- may well exclude inquiry about
rumors of an event so remote, unless recent misconduct
revived them. But two of these witnesses dated their
acquaintance with defendant as commencing thirty years
before the trial. Defendant, on direct examination, voluntarily called attention to his conviction twenty years
before. While the jury might conclude that a matter
so old and indecisive as a 1920 arrest would shed little
light on the present reputation and hence propensities of
the defendant, we cannot say that, in the context of this
evidence and in the absence of objection on this specific
ground, its admission was an abuse of discretion.
We do not overlook or minimize the consideration that
"the jury almost surely cannot comprehend the judge's
limiting instruction," which disturbed the Court of Appeals. The refinements of the evidentiary rules on this

MICHELSON v. UNITED STATES.
469

Opinion of the Court.

subject are such that even lawyers and judges, after study
and reflection, often are confused, and surely jurors in
the hurried and unfamiliar movement of a trial must
find them almost unintelligible. However, limiting instructions on this subject are no more difficult to comprehend or apply than those upon various other subjects;
for example, instructions that admissions of a co-defendant are to be limited to the question of his guilt and
are not to be considered as evidence against other defendants, and instructions as to other problems in the
trial of conspiracy charges. A defendant in such a case
is powerless to prevent his cause from being irretrievably
obscured and confused; but, in cases such as the one before us, the law foreclosed this whole confounding line of
inquiry, unless defendant thought the net advantage from
opening it up would be with him. Given this option,
we think defendants in general and this defendant in
particular have no valid complaint at the latitude which
existing law allows to the prosecution to meet by crossexamination an issue voluntarily tendered by the defense.
See Greer v. United States, 245 U. S. 559.
We end, as we began, with the observation 'that the law
regulating the offering and testing of character testimony
may merit many criticisms. England and some states
have overhauled the practice by statute." But the task
of modernizing the long-standing rules on the subject is
22Criminal Evidence Act,'61 & 62 Vict., c. 36. See also 51 L. Q.
Rev. 443, for discussion of right to cross-examine about prior arrests.
For review of English and state legislation, see 1 Wigmore, Evidence
(3d ed., 1940) § 194, et seq. The Pennsylvania statute (Act of
March 15, 1911, P. L. 20, § 1) discussed by Wigmore has been
amended (Act of July 3, 1947, P. L. 1239, § 1, 19 PS § 711). The
current statute and Pennsylvania practice were considered recently
by the Superior Court of that state. Commonwealth v. Hurt, 163
Pa. Super. 232, 60 A.2d 828.
798176 0-49-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

one of magnitude and difficulty which even those dedicated to law reform do.nqt lightly undertake.23
The law of evidence relating to proof of reputation in
.criminal cases has developed almost entirely at the hands
of state courts of last resort, which have such questions
frequently before them. This Court, on the other hand,
has contributed little to this or to any phase of the law
of evidence, for the reason, among others, that it has
had extremely rare occasion to decide such issues, as the
paucity of citations in this opinion to our own writings
attests. It is obvious that a court which can make only
infrequent sallies into the field annot recast the body
of case law on this subject in many, many years, even if
it were clear what the rules should be.
We concur in the general opinion of courts, textwriters
and the profession that much of this law. is archaic,
paradoxical and full of compromises and compensations
by which an irrational advantage to one side is offset by
a poorly reasoned counterprivilege to the other. But
somehow it has proved a workable even if clumsy system
when moderated by discretionary controls in the hands
of a wise and strong trial court. To pull one misshapen
stone out of the grotesque structure is more likely simply
to upset its present balance between adverse interests than
to establish a rational edifice.
The present suggestion is that we adopt for all federal
courts a new rule as to cross-examination about prior arrest, adhered to by the courts of only one state and
23 The American Law Institute, in promulgating its "Model Code
of Evidence," includes the comment, "Character, wherever used in
these Rules, means disposition not reputation, It denotes what a
person is, not what he is reputed to be. No rules are laid down as
to proof of reputation, when reputation is a fact to be proved. When
reputation is a material matter, it is provable in the same manner as
is any other disputed fact." Rule 304. The latter sentence may
seem an oversimplification in view of th decisions we have reviewed.

MICHELSON v. UNITED STATES.
469

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

rejected elsewhere." The confusion and error it would
engender would seem too heavy a price to pay for an
almost imperceptible logical improvement, if any, in a
system which is justified, if at all, by accumulated judicial
experience rather than abstract logic.25
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

Despite the fact that my feelings run in the general
direction of the views expressed by MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE in his dissent, I join the Court's opinion. I do so
because I believe it to be unprofitable, on balance, for
appellate courts to formulate rigid rules for the exclusion
of evidence in courts of law that outside them would not
be regarded as clearly irrelevant-in the determination of
issues. For well-understood reasons this Court's occasional ventures in formulating-such rules hardly encourage confidence in denying to the federal trial courts a
power of control over the allowable scope of cross-examination possessed by trial judges in practically all State
courts. After all, such uniformity of rule in the conduct
of trials is the crystallization of experience even when
due allowance is made for the force of imitation: To
reject such an impressive body of experience would imply
a more dependable wisdom in -a matter of this sort than
I can claim.
To leave the District Courts of the United States the
discretion given to them by this decision presupposes a
24

See note 21.

25

It must not be overlooked that abuse of cross-examination to test

credibility carries its own corrective. Authorities on practice caution the bar of the imprudence as well as the unprofessional nature
of attacks on witnesses or defendants which are likely to be resented
by the jury. Wellman, Art of Cross-Examination (1927) p. 167,
et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
RUTLEDGE, J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

high standard of professional competence, good sense,
fairness and courage on, the part of the federal district
judges. If the United States District Courts are not
manned by judges of such qualities, appellate review, no
matter how stringent, can d6 very little to make up for
the lack of them.
MR. JUSTICE, RUTLEDGE,

with whom

MR. JUSTICE MUR-

joins, dissenting.
The Court's opinion candidly and interestingly points
out the anomalous features characterizing: the exclusion
and admission of so-called character evidence in criminal
cases. It also for the first time puts the stamp of the
Court's approval upon the most anomalous and, what
is more important, the most unfair stage in this evidentiary sequence.
There are three stages. The first denies the prosecution the right to attack the defendant's reputation as
part of its case in chief, either by proof of bad general
reputation or by proof of specific derogatory incidents
disconnected from the one charged as the crime. The
second permits the defendant, at his option, to prove by
qualified witnesses that he bears a good general reputation or at least one not tarnished by ill-repute. The
witness is forbidden, however, to go into particular incidents or details of the defendant's life and conduct. The
witness, once qualified, can state only the general conclusion of the community concerning the defendant's
character as the witness knows that reputation. The
third stage comprehends the prosecution's rebuttal, and
particularly the latitude of cross-examination to be.
allowed.
I do not agree that this whole body of law- is anomalous,
unless indeed all the law of evidence with its numerous
rules of exclusion and exceptions to them is to be so regarded. Anomalies there are, no doubt with much room
PHY

MICHELSON v. UNITED STATES.
469

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

for improvement. But here, if anywhere, the law is more
largely the result of experience, of considerations of fairness and practicability developed through the centuries,
than of any effort to construct a nicely logical, wholly
consistent pattern of things. Imperfect and variable as
the scheme has become in the application of specific rules,
on the whole it represents the result of centuries of
,common-law growth in the seeking of English-speaking
peoples for fair play in the trial of crime and other causes.
Moreover, I cannot agree that, in the sequence of the
three stages relating to character evidence, the anomalous
quality is equally present in each. In my judgment there
is a vast difference in this respect between the rulings
summarizing our experience in the first two stages and
those affecting the third.
Regardless of all considerations of mere logical consistency, I should suppose there would be few now,
whether lawyers or laymen, who would advocate change
in the prevailing rules governing the first two stages of the
sequence. In criminal causes especially, there are sound
reasons basic to our system of criminal justice which
justify initially excluding the Government from showing
the defendant's bad general character or reputation.
The common law has not grown in the .tradition of
convicting a man and sending him to prison because he
is generally a bad man or generally regarded as one.
General bad character, much less general bad reputation,
has not yet become a criminal offense in our scheme.
Our whole tradition is that a man can be punished by
criminal sanctions only for specific acts defined beforehand to be criminal, not for general misconduct or bearing
a reputation for such misconduct.
That tradition lies at the heart of our criminal process.
And it is the foundation of the rule of evidence which
denies to the prosecution the right to show generally or
by specific details that a defendant bears a bad general

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

estimate in his community. In the light of our fundamental conceptions of crime and of the criminal process,.
there is nothing anomalous in this exclusion. It is designed to restrain proof to the limits of the charge and
to prevent conviction for ofie offense because perhaps
others, or misconduct not amounting to crime at all,
have been perpetrated or are reputed generally to lie at
the defendant's door.
The rule which allows the defendant to prove his good
standing by general reputation is, of course, a kind of
exception to the hearsay rule of exclusion, though one
may inquire how else could reputation be proved than
by hearsay if it is to be proved at all. This indeed presents the substantial question. Apart from it§ long acceptance, Edgington v. United States, 164 U. S. 361,
the rule allowing the evidence to come in rests on very
different considerations from the one which forbids the
Government to bring in proof of bad public character
as part of its case in chief. The defendant's proof comes
as rebuttal. It is subject to none of the dangers involving the possibility of conviction forgenerally bad conduct
or general repute for it which would characterize permitting the prosecution initially to show bad general reputation. The basic reason for excluding the latter does
not apply to the defendant's tender oT proof.
On the positive side the rule is justified by the ancient
law which pronounces that a good name is rather to be
chosen than great riches. True, men of good general
repute may not deserve it. Or they may slip and fall
in particular situations. But by common experience this
is more often the exception than the rule. Moreover,
most often in close cases, where the proof leaves one in
doubt, the evidence of general regard by one's fellows
may be the weight which turns the scales of justice. It
may indeed be sufficient to create a clear conviction of

MICHELSON v. UNITED STATES.
469

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

innocence or to sow that reasonable doubt which our
law requires to be overcome in all criminal cases before
the verdict of guilty can be returned.
The apparent anomaly which excludes the prosecution's proof of bad character in the beginning but lets
in the defendant's proof of good character is thus only
apparent. It is part and parcel of our scheme which
forbids conviction for other than specific acts criminal in
character and which, in their trial, casts over the defendant the presumption of innocence until he is proved guilty
beyond all reasonable doubt. To take away his right
to bring in any substantial and pertinent proof bearing
upon the existence of reasonable doubt is, so far, to nullify
the rule requiring removal of that doubt. I reject the
Court's intimation that these considerations have to some
extent become obsolete or without substantial effects
because we now live in cities more generally than formerly.
They are basic parts of our plan, perhaps the more important to be observed because so much of our life now
is urban.
But, for a variety of reasons, the law allows the defendant to prove no more than his general reputation, by
witnesses qualified to report concerning it. He cannot
show particular acts of virtue to offset the proof of his
specific criminality on any theory that "By their fruits
ye shall know them." Whether this be because such
proof is irrelevant, is too distracting and time-consuming,
is summarized in the general report of good character,
or perhaps for all of these reasons, the rule is settled,
and I think rightly, which restricts the proof to general
repute.
Thus far, whatever the differences in logic, differences
which as usual inhere in the premises from which thinking
starts, there is no geferal disagreement or dissatisfaction
.in the results. All of the states and the federal judicial

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

system as well, approve them. No one would open the
doors initially to the prosecution. No one would close
them to the defense. "
But the situation is different when we come to the
third stage, that of the prosecution's rebuttal. Obviously
rebuttal there should be, when the defendant has opened.
a line of inquiry closed to the prosecution and has sought
to gain advantage by proof which it has had no chance
to counteract. But the question of how the rebuttal shall
be made presents the difficult problem.
There can be no sound objection, of course, to calling
witnesses who will qualify as the witnesses for the defense
are required to do, but who also will contradict their testimony. And the prosecution may inquire concerning the
qualifications of the witnesses for the defense to speak
concerning the defendant's general reputation. Thus far
there is nothing to exceed the bounds of rebuttal or take
the case out of the issues as made.
But these have not been the limits of proof and crossexamination. For, in the guise of "testing the standards
of the witness" when he speaks to reputation, the door has
been thrown wide open to trying the defendant's whole,
life, both in general reputation and in specific incident..
Wh.at is worse, this is without opportunity for the defendant to rebut either the fact or the innuendo for which
the evidence is tendered more generally than otherwise.
Hardly any incident, however remote or derogatory, but
can be drawn out by asking the witness who testifies to
the defendant's good character, "Have you heard this" or
"Have you heard that." And many incidents, wholly
innocent in quality, can be turned by the prosecutor,
through an inflection or tone, to cast aspersion upon the
defendant by the mere asking of the question, without
hope' of affirmative response from the witness.
The dangers, the potential damage and prejudice to the
defendant and his cause, have not been more clearly sum-

MICHELSON v. UNITED STATES.
469

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

marized than in the excerpt from Wigmore's classic treatise, quoted in note 4 of the Court's opinion, ante, p. 473.
His summary of the consequences produced by the rule
bears repetition and greater emphasis. He said""The rumor of the misconduct, when admitted, goes
far, in spite of all theory and of the judge's charge,
towards fixing the misconduct as a fact upon the
other person, and thus does three improper things,(1) it violates the fundamental rule of fairness
that prohibits the use of such facts, (2) it gets
at them by hearsay only, and not by trustworthy
testimony, and (3) it leaves the other person no
means of defending himself by denial or explanation,
such as he would otherwise have had if the rule had
allowed that conduct to be made the subject of an
issue." 3 Wigmore, Evidence (3d ed., 1940) § 988.
These consequences are not denied. But it is said two
modes of protection are available to the accused. One
is to refrain from opening the inquiry into his reputation.
That answer would have weight if the rebuttal were limited to inquiry concerning the witness' opportunity for
knowing the accused and his 'reputation and to producing
contrary evidence by other witnesses of the same general
sort as that which is refuted. But if the rule is sound
which allows the accused to show his good repute and
restricts him to that showing, it not only is anomalous,
it is highly unjust, to exact, as the price for his doing so,
throwing open to the prosecution the opportunity not only
to rebut his proof but to call in question almost any specific act of his life or to insinuate without proving that he
has committed other acts, leaving him no chance to reply.
A fair rule either would afford this chance or would restrict the prosecution's counterproof in the same way his
own is limited. The prevailing rule changes the whole
character of the case, in a manner the rules applying
to the two earlier stages seek to avoid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

Nor is it enough, in my judgment, to trust to the sound
discretion of trial judges to protect the defendant against
excesses of the prosecution. To do this effectively they
need standards. None are provided under the Court's
ruling; indeed it would be difficult to provide them except
for each case and question as they might arise.
The facts in this case, it seems to me, show the inadequacy of any such general and largely unrestricted delegation. They demonstrate how far and how unfairly the
prosecution may be allowed to go in bringing extraneous
and immaterial matters to the jury's attention, with however a probable effect of prejudice. Petitioner himself
had made a clean breast of his twenty-year-old conviction
for violating the New York trademark laws. That fact
of course was of some use for testing his character witnesses' standards for speaking to his general repute, although the conviction was so old thAt conceivably it could
have but little weight on the accused's reputation in 1947.
Then the prosecution went back seven years further
and inquired whether the witnesses had heard that petitioner was arrested "on October 11th, 1920" for receiving
stolen goods. None of the witnesses had heard of this
fact. The court solemnly instructed the jury that they
were not to consider that the incident took place, that all
that was happening was that the prosecutor was testing
the witness' standard of opinion of the accused's reputation. This, after the court out of the jury's presence had
required the prosecutor to make proof satisfactory to the
court that the incident had taken place.
The very form of the question was itself notice of the
fact to the jury. They well might assume, as men of
common sense, that the court would not allow the question if the fact were only fiction. And why "on October
11th, 1920," rather than merely "in 1920" or "Haye you
ever heard of the defendant's being arrested, other than

MICHELSON v. UNITED STATES.
469

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

for the trademark violation?" Why also "for receiving
stolen goods"? In my opinion the only answers to these
questions are, not that the prosecution was "testing the
witness' standard of opinion of reputation," but that it
was telling the jury what it could not prove directly and
what the petitioner had no chance to deny, namely, that
he had been so arrested; and thereby either insinuating
that he had been convicted of the crime or leaving to the
jury to guess that this had been the outcome. The question was a typical abuse arising from allowing this type of
inquiry. It should have been excluded. There is no
way to tell how much prejudice it produced.
Moreover, I do not think the mere question of knowledge of a prior arrest is one proper to be asked, even
if inquiry as to clearly derogatory acts is to be permitted.
Of course men take such an inquiry as reflecting upon
the person arrested. But, for use in a criminal prosecution, I do not think they should be allowed to do so.
The mere fact of a single arrest twenty-seven years before
trial, without further showing of criminal proceedings or
their outcome, whether acquittal or conviction, seldom
could have substantial bearing upon one's present general
reputation; indeed it is not per se a derogatory fact.
But it is put-in generally, and I think was put in evidence
in this case, not to call in question the witness' standard
of opinion but, by the very question, to give room for
play of the jur ,'s unguarded conjecture and jrejudice.
This is neither fair play nor due process. It is a perversion of the-triminal process as we know it. For it
permits what the rule applied in the first stage forbids,
trial of the accused not only for general bad conduct or
reputation but also for conjecture, gossip, innuendo and
insinuation.
Accordingly, I think this judgment should be reversed.
I also think the prevailing practice should be changed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

One judge of the Court of Appeals has suggested we do
this by adopting the Illinois rule,' namely, by limiting
inquiry concerning specific incidents to questions relating
to prior offenses similar to that for which the defendant
is on trial. Logically that rule is subject to the same
objections as the generally prevailing one. But it has
the practical merit of greatly reducing the scope and

volume of allowable questions concerning specific acts,
rumors, etc., with comparable reduction of innuendo,
insinuation and gossip. My own preference and, I think,
the only fair rule would be to foreclose the entire line
of inquiry concerning specific incidents in the defendant's
past, both on cross-examination and on new evidence in
rebuttal. This would leave room for proper rebuttal
without turning the defendant's trial for a specific offense
into one for all his previous misconduct, criminal or other,
and would put the prosecution on the same plane with
the defendant in relation to the use of character evidence.
This, it seems to me, is the only fair way to handle the
matter.

I See People v. Hannon, 381 Ill. 206, 211, for the most recent state
ment of the rule established by Aiken v. People, 183 Ill. 215; cf.
People v. Page, 365 Ill. 524. In North Carolina a character witness
may be asked on cross-examination about the "general reputation of
the defendant as to particular vices or virtues," but not about rumors
of specific acts of misconduct. State v. Shepherd, 220 N. C. 377,
379; State v. Holly, 155 N.' C. 485, 492. The Arizona Supreme
Court, which once followed the rule adopted by the Court today,
Smith v. State, 22 Ariz. 229, more recently, in reversing a judgment
because a character witness was crbss-examined as to his knowledge
of specific acts of misconduct, stated that cross-examination should
be limited to questions concerning the source of the witness' knowlkedge of the accused's reputation and should not include questions
concerning specific acts of misconduct. Viliborghi v. State, 45 Ariz.
275, 285.

