464

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

335 U. S.

GOESAERT ET AL. v. CLEARY ET AL., MEMBERS
OF THE LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION OF
MICHIGAN.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 49.

Argued November 19, 1948.-Decided December 20, 1948.

Mich. Stat. Ann. (Cum. Supp. 1947) ยง 18.990 (1), which in.effect
forbids any female to act as a bartender unless she be "the wife
or daughter of the male owner" of a licensed liquor establishment,
does not violate the Equal Protection Clause of' the Fourteenth
Amendment. Pp. 465-467.
(a) The classification which Michigan has made as between
wives and daughters of owners of liquor establishments and wives
and daughters of non-owners is not without a reasonable basis.
Pp. 465-467.
(b) Nor is the statute rendered unconstitutional because Michigan allows women to serve as waitresses where liquor is dispensed.
P. 467.
74 F. Supp. 735, affirmed.

A three-judge federal district court denied an injunction to restrain enforcement of Mich. Stat. Ann. (Cum.
"upp. 1947) , 18.990 (1), in effect forbidding any female
to act as a bartender unless she be "the wife or daughter
of the male owner" of a licensed liquor establishment.
74 F. Supp. 735. On appeal to this Court, affirmed, p.
467.
Anne R. Davidow argued the cause and filed a brief

for appellants.

Larry Si Davidow was also of counsel.

Edmund E. Shepherd, Solicitor General of Michigan,
argued the cause for appellees. With him on the brief
were Eugene F. Black, Attorney General, Daniel J.
O'Hara and Charles M. A. Martin, Assistant Attorneys
General.

GOESAERT v. CLEARY.
46i4

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE. FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
As part of the Michigan system for controlling the sale
of liquor, bartenders are required to be licensed in all
cities having a population of 50,000 or more, but no
female may be so licensed unless she be "the wife or
daughter of the male owner" of a licensed liquor establishment. Section 19a of Act 133 of the Public Acts of
Michigan, 1945, Mich. Stat. Ann. ยง 18.990 (1) (Cum.
Supp. 1947). The case is here on direct appeal from an
order of the District Court of three judges, convened under ยง 266 of the old Judicial Code, now 28 U. S. C. ' 2284,
denying an injunction to restrain the enforcement of the
Michigan law. The claim, denied below, on6 judge dissenting. 74 F. Supp. 735, and renewed here, is that
Michigan cannot forbid females generally from being
barmaids and at the same time make an exception in
favor of the wives and daughters of the owners of liquor
establishments. Beguiling as the subject is, it need not
detain us long. To ask whether or not the Equal Protection of the Laws Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
barred Michigan from making the classification the State
has made between wives and daughters of owners of
liquor places and wives and daughters of non-owners, is
one of those rare instances where to state the question
is in effect to answer it.
We are, to be-sure, dealing with a historic calling. We
meet the alewife, sprightly and ribald, in Shakespeare,
but centuries before him she played a role in the social
life of England. See, e. g., Jusserand, English Wayfaring
Life in the Middle Ages, 133, 134, 136-37 (1889). The
Fourteenth Amendment did not tear history up by the
roots, and the regulation of the liquor traffic is one of
the oldest and most untrammeled of legislative powers.
Michigan could, beyond question, forbid all women from
working behind a bar., This is so despite the vast changes

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

in the social and legal position of women.. The fact that
women may now have achieved the virtues that men
have long claimed as their prerogatives and now indulge
in vices that men have long practiced, does not preclude
the States from drawing a sharp line between the sexes,
certainly in such matters as the regulation of the liquor
traffic. See the Twenty-First Amendment and Carter v.
Virginia, 321 U. S. 131. The Constitution does not require legislatures to reflect sociological insight, or shifting
social standards, any rhore than it requires them to keep
abreast of the latest scientific standards.
While Michigan may deny to all women opportunities
for bartending, Michigan cannot play favorites among
women without rhyme or reason. The Constitution in
enjoining the equal protection of the laws upon States
precludes irrational discrimi nation as between persons or
groups of persons in the incidence of a law. But the
Constitution does not require situations "which are different in fact or opinion to be treated in law as though
they were the same." Tigner v. Texas, 310 U. S. 141,
147. Since bartending by women may, in the allowable
legislative judgment, give rise to moral and social problems against which it may devise preventive measures,
the legislature need not go to the full length of prohibition if it believes that as to a defined group of females
other factors are operating which either eliminate or
reduce the moral and social problems otherwise calling for
prohibition. Michigan evidently believes that the oversight assured through ownership of a bar by a barmaid's
husband or father minimizes hazards that may confront a
barmaid without such protecting oversight. This Couirt
is certainly not in a position to gainsay such belief by the
Michigan legislature. If it is entertainable, as we think
it is, Michigan has not violated its duty to afford equal
protection of its laws. We cannot cross-examine either
actually or argumentatively the mind of Michigan legis-

GOESAERT v. CLEARY.
464

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

lators nor question their motives. Since the line they
have drawn is not without a basis in reason, we cannot
give ear to the suggestion that the real impulse behind
this legislation was an unchivalrous desire of male bartenders to try to monopolize the calling.
It would be an idle parade of familiar learning to review
the multitudinous cases in which the constitutional assurance of the equal protection of the laws has been applied.
The generalities on this subject are not in dispute; their
application turns peculiarly on the particular circumstances of a case. Thus, it would be a sterile inquiry
to consider whether this case is nearer to the nepotic
pilotage law of Louisiana, sustained in Kotch v. Pilot
Commissioners, 330 U. S. 552, than it is to the Oklahoma
sterilization law, which fell in Skinner v. Oklahoma, 316
U. S 535. Suffice it to say that "A statute is not invalid
under the Constitution because it might have gone farther
than it did, or because it may not succeed in bringing
about the result that.it tends to produce." Roschen v.
Ward, 279 U. S. 337, 339.
Nor is it unconstitutional for Michigan to withdraw
from women the occupation of bartending because it
allows women to serve as waitresses where liquor is dispensed. The District Court has sufficiently indicated the
reasons that may have influenced the legislature in allowing women to be waitresses in a liquor establishment over
which a man's oxnership provides control. Nothing need
be added to what was said below as to the other grounds
on which the Michigan law was assailed.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

with whom MR. JUSTICE DOUGjoin, dissenting.
While the equal protection clause does not require a
legislature to achieve "abstra.ct symmetry" ' or to classify
LAS and MR.

1 Patsone

RUTLEDGE,

JUSTICE MURPHY

v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138,' 144.

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

with '"mathematical nicety,"' that clause does require
lawmakers to refrain from invidious distinctions of the
sort drawn by the statute challenged in this case. '
The statute arbitrarily discriminates between male
and female owners of liqu6r establishments. A male
owner, although he himpelf is always absent from his
bar, fiiay employ his wife and daughter as barmaids.
A female owner may neither work as a barmaid h-rself
nor employ her daughter in that position, even if a man
is always present in the establishment to keep order.
This inevitable result of the classification belies the assumption that the statute was motivated by-a legislative
solicitude for the moral and physical well-being of women
who, but for the law, would be employed as barmaids.
Since there could be no other conceivable justification
for such discrimination against women owners of liquor
establishments, the statute should be held invalid as a
denial of equal. protection.

2

Lindsley v."
Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78-82;
see also Tigner v. Texas, 310 U. S. 141, 147; Bain Peanut Co. v.
Pinson, 282 U. S. 499, 501; Bryant v. Zimmerman, 278 U. S.- 63,

73-77; Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S.373,384.
3 Cf. Skiner v. Oklahoma, 316 U. S. 535; Missouri ex rel. Gaines
v: Canada, 305 U.-S. 337; McCabe v. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co.,
235 U. S. 151; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 .U. S. 356: And see Kotch
v. Pilot Commissioners, 330 U. S. 552, dissenting opinion 564.

