FRAZIER v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

FRAZIER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT.

No. 44.

Argued October 15, 1948.-Decided December 20, 1948.

1. Petitioner was convicted in a fedl'ral court in the District of
Columbia for violating the Harrison Narcotics Act. In the circumstances of this case, he was not denied the trial "by an impartial
jury" guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment, although the jury was
composed entirely of employees of the Federal Government and
one of them and the wife of another were employees of the Treasury
Department, but not of its Bureau of Narcotics which administers and enforces the federal narcotics statutes. Pp. 498-514.
2. A motion to strike the entire panel for alleged irregularities in
the method of its selection, which was not made until after an
entire morning had been consumed in uncompleted efforts to select
a jury and which was supported solely by counsel's unsworn
statements, without any proof or offer of proof, was without
merit. Pp. 503-504.
3. Given 10 arbitrary choices among 22" prospective jurors not disqualified for cause, of whom 13 were government employees and
9 privately engaged, petitioner knowingly rejected by peremptory
challenges all 9 of the latter and accepted without challenge all
but one of the former. Held: His objection to the resulting
jury on the ground that it consisted entirely of government employees was not justified. Pp. 504-512.
4. In view of the D. C. Code (1940) § 11-1420, which removed
(with *specified exceptions) the previously existing disqualification
of government employees for jury service in the District of Columbia in criminal and other cases to which the Government is a
party, the mere fact of goverpment employment is insufficient to
disqualify a juror who is otherwise qualified. United States v.
Wood, 299 U. S. 123. Pp. 508-512.
5. Where petitioner knew that the wife of one juror was employed by
the Treasury and knew that another juror was a government
employee but failed to inquire as to the exact nature of the latter's
employment and failed to challenge either juror while the jury

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

was being selected, petitioner's challenge to these two jurors in
a mofion for a new trial was rightly overruled. Pp. 512-514.
82 U. S. App. D. C. 332, 163 F. 2d 817, affirmed.

Petitioner was convicted in the United States District
Court for the District of Columbia of violating the Harrison Narcotics Act, 26 U. S. C. § 2553. The jury was
composed entirely of employees of the Federal'Government and one of them and the wife of another were
employees of the Treasury Department, but not of its
Bureau of Narcotics which administers and enforces the
federal narcotics statutes. The Court of Appeals affirmed
the conviction. 82 U. S. App. D. C. 332, 163 F. 2d 817.
This Court granted certiorari. 333 U. S. 873. Affirmed,
p. 514.
11. Edward Buckley, Jr.argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief was Milton Conn.
Robert W. Ginnane argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Perlman, Robert S. Erdahl and Josephine H. Klein.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner's primary complaint" is that he has been
denied the trial "by an impartial jury" which the Sixth
Amendment guarantees. He was convicted of violating
the Harrison Narcotics Act,' by a ,jury composed entirely
.of employees of the Federal Government. One juror,
'26 U. S. C. § 2553. The indictment charged, substantially in the
statutory language, that petitioner knowingly, wilfully, unlawfully
and feloniously did "purchase, sell, dispense, and distribute" certain

narcotic drugs "not then and there, in or froin, the original stamped
package."

FRAZIER v. UNITED STATES.
497

Opinion of the Court.

Moore, and the wife of another, Root, were employed
in the office of the Secretary of the Treasury, who is
charged by law with responsibility for administering and
enforcing the federal narcotics statutes.2 As against objections based on these facts and other matters, the Court
of Appeals affirmed petitioner's conviction and sentence.
82 U. S. App. D. C. 332, 163 F. 2d 817. He has sought
relief here by application for certiorari limited to the
issues relating to the jury's selection and composition.
To review the determination made of them by the Court
of Appeals we granted certiorari. 333 U. S.873.
Petitioner's objections comprehend an attack upon thd
entire. panel of prospective jurors, made during the course
of voir dire examination, in an effort to have the panel
stricken; a challenge to the jury as finally constituted,
after petitioner had exhausted his ten peremptory challenges, voir dire examination had been completed, and
the twelve jurors who tried the case had been qualified;
and, either separately or in conjunction with his other

objections,' a claim of reversible error on account of the
2Pursuant to 26 U. S. C. § 2606 the Secretary has delegated to the

Commissioner of Narcotics "the investigation, detection and prevention of violations of the Federal narcotic and marihuana laws." 21
C. F. R., 1946 Supp., § 206.1. The Bureau of Narcotics, created
within the Treasury Department, 5 U. S. C. § 282, is subject to the
Secretary's "general supervision and direction," 21 C. F. R., 1946
Supp., § 206.3, and' its decisions are subject to review by him.
5 U. S. C. § 282c. There were 87,830 employees in the Treasury
Department as of September 30, 1948, of whom 19,645 were employed
in the District of Columbia. Monthly. Report of Employment,
Executive Branch of the Federal Government, U. S. Civ. Serv.
Comm'n, September, 1948, Table V.. Published figures are not available to show the number of these employed by the Narcotics Bureau,
but obviofisly in'view of. the number and diversity of the Treasury
Department's functions they must have comprised only a comparatively small fraction of the total.
3See Part III infra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

inclusion of Moore and Root as jurors. An adequate
understanding of the issues thus raised requires a condensed statement of the proceedings followed in the District Court in the selection of the jury.
Pursuant to customary practice, those proceedings began with the seating in the box of twelve prospective
jurors for purposes of examination on voir dire. These
twelve had been chosen previously, in accordance with
prevailing practice, from jury lists maintained to supply'
grand and petit juries for all divisions o:f the District
Court. Cf. D. C. Code (1940) § 11-1401, et seq. There
is no claim that those lists were improperly made up. The
usual preliminary examination began and continued until
the noon recess, as is later noted, with counsel raising no
question concerning the constitution of the lists or the
panel.
Petitioner inquired, among other things, how many
were Government employees. Five of the original twelve
indicated they were. One of these was excused by the
court. The other four, including Moore, remained unchallenged and served on the jury. The seven remaining
veniremen, including two housewives, were engaged in
private occupations. All seven were challenged peremptorily by petitioner.
To replace them and the one excused by the court,
others including Root were called from time to time,
and were examined in substantially the same manner as
the original twelve. Altogether they numbered thirteen,
nine Government employees, two in private employment,
and two the nature of whose work does not appear. Of
the latter, one was excused by the court and the other
peremptorily challenged by the prosecution. Petitioner
peremptorily challenged both of those in private employment and one of the nine in Government service. This
exhausted petitioner's peremptory challenges and left

FRAZIER v. UNITED STATES.
497

Opinion of the Court.

eight unchallenged Government employees to join the
four like ones originally called in composing the twelve
who made up the jury as finally chosen.'
The process of selection was interrupted shortly before
noon, when petitioner still had two unused peremptory
challenges, by a shortage of veniremen. Anticipating
that others would be available later in the day, the court
adjourned until 2:30 p. m. On its reconvening, additional prospective jurors were available. But petitioner
then moved for the first time to strike the entire panel
for alleged irregularity in the method, used for selecting
it, asserted to have been discovered by counsel through
"a little investigation" during the noon recess. The
court denied the motion, with leave to renew the objection in a motion for a new trial if petitioner should be
convicted.' The material part of the colloquy relating
to these proceedings and disclosing the grounds for the
motion and its denial is set forth in the margin.'
4In summary, twenty-five prospective jurors were examined. Of
these one was peremptorily challenged by the prosecution and two
were excused by the court for cause. Of the remaining twenty-two,

thirteen were in Government work, nine privately employed. Petitioner peremptorily challenged the nine and one Government employee, thus exhausting his peremptory challenges. In this manner
the jury composed wholly of federal employees resulted. Prior to
his trial petitioner made no individual challenge to any of the twelve.
who constituted the jury as finally selected. They included Moore
and Root.
5 The objection was renewed in petitioner's motions in arrest of

judgment and for a new trial, and was denied in each instance.
I have made a little
6 "'r. BUCKLEY. If your Honor please,
investigation of the impaneling or selection of this panel here as
well as selection of the other panels sitting this month, and I
most respectfully submit that the method and procedure used in
selecting is irregular, and I am going to move to strike this whole
panel, the reason being this: that from the inquiries I have made,
there were about five hundred or five hundred -and a few jurors
798176 0-49---37

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

Petitioner then exercised his two remaining peremptory
challenges, after which he inquired of the twelve jurors
then impaneled how many were employed by the Government. When all indicated they were, petitioner challenged the jury as impaneled for cause. The challenge
and the court's ruling in denial of it appear below.' Although counsel sought to intermingle with this challenge
subpenaed-that is, individually subpenaed to appear here-from
which they selected a sufficient number of jurors here.
"If there were five hundred, they were divided into two groups,
two hundred fifty for one court and two hundred fifty for another
court, and of the two hundred fifty for each court, they were asked
how many of those two hundred fifty did not desire to serve as
jurors, to raise their hands, so those who raised their hands were
told to step to one side, and out of the remaining number that were
left they picked the jurors, and the remaining number that were
left consisted mostly of Government employees and housewives, and
unemployed. There are only a few unemployed.
"I know Your Honor has read this case in the Supreme Court,
Thiel v. Southern Pacific Company. This is not a proper crosssection.
"The CouRT. The Thiel case holds that it must be shown that
there was a systematic attempt to exclude 9'certain type or group
of persons. . . . That is what that case holds, and that is not the
situation here."
I,"Mr. BUCKLEY. If Your Honor please, with reference to the
motion which I made a while ago, moving to strike the whole panel,
I now find myself in this position. I have exhausted my ten
challenges.
"In selecting these different panels on the first Tuesday of the
month, the Clerk says to the five hundred or two hundred fifty,
whichever it may be, individuals who are summoned to appear here,
from which to pick the juries, 'All those who do not desire to serve,
step to one side.'
"That leaves a batch of Government employees and housewives.
"Now, I have exhausted my ten challenges, and here I have twelve
Government jurors who are to decide this defendant's case, which
is a violation of the Federal statute, being brought in a Federal Court,
prosecuted by a Federal prosecutor, and the case is presented by

FRAZIER v. UNITED STATES.
497

Opinion of the Court.

the one previously made to the panel,8 the two are distinct attacks and must be treated separately.
I. The method of selecting the panel.-Apart from the
objection that this challenge same too late, cf. Agnew v.
United States, 165 U. S. 36; it is without merit. It
consists exclusively of counsel's statements, unsworn and
unsupported by any proof or offer of proof. The Government did not explicitly deny those statements. But
it was under no necessity to do so. The burden was
upon the petitioner as moving party "to introduce, br to
offer, distinct evidence in support of the motion." Glasser
v. United States, 315 U. S. 60, 87. See also Smith v.
Mississippi, 162 U. S. 592; Tarrance v. Florida, 188 U.. S.
519; Martin v. Texas, 200 U. S. 316; cf. Brownfield v.
South Carolina, 189 V. S. 426.
Of itself this failure in tender of proof would require
denial of the motion. But even if proof had been made
or offered there would have been no showing sufficient
to require contrary action. The statements, if treated as
allegations, comprehended in substance but two things.
One was the very brief statement of facts relating to
the procedure followed, namely, the subpoenaing of about
five hundred jurors, their equal division for assignment
to two branches of the court, and that those in each
group.who did not wish to serve were "told to step to
one side." This was all in the way of facts. From them
followed counsel's vague and general conclusion that the
Federal agents. J submit there is reason to challenge these people
for cause.
"The COURT. I will deny the motion and request at this time
that you take it up later, in a motion after the verdict, if you think
it is sound. I do not believe your motion is sound. Chance has
resulted in this jury panel of twelve being composed of Government
employees, but the jury list from which they by chance were selected
is a mixture of Government employees and private employees."
8See note 7; cf. note 6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

remaining number, from which it was said jurors were
picked, "consisted mostly of Government employees and
housewives, and unemployed." Counsel then urged that
this furnished basis for applying the decision in Thiel v.
Southern Pacific Co., 328 U. S. 217, as not affording "a
proper cross-section."
The trial court rightly held the Thiel case inapplicable,
for the reasons that it requires a showing of systematic
exclusion or attempt to exclude from the panel a particular occupational group or groups otherwise eligible
for jury service, and the statements and conclusions of
counsel here disclosed no such attempt. Beyond this,
moreover, it seems highly doubtful that the facts set
forth in the statement, if proved, would constitute any
irregularity. Nothing is stated concerning the numbers
who stepped to one side, their occupational classifications,
whether they were excused or, if any, how many, by
whom or for what cause. For all one could know from
the statement, those stepping to one side may have included but one in ten, and of these, half or more may
have been held for jury service after claiming exemption
or seeking excuse. The facts stated, therefore, taken in
the light of pertinent facts omitted, lay no foundation
whatever for counsel's conclusions, inferentially that jurors were selected only from those not standing aside,
and explicitly that the remaining number "consisted
mostly of Government employees and housewives, and
unemployed." The statement was obviously insufficient
to lay any foundation for valid attack upon the method
followed in selecting the panel.
II. Composition of the jury.-The essence of this attack consists in counsel's statement, "Now, I have exhausted my ten challenges, and here I have twelve
Government jurors who are to decide this defendant's
case, which is a violation of the Federal statute, being

FRAZIER v. UNITED STATES.
497

Opinion of the Court.

brought in a Federal Court, prosecuted by a Federal
prosecutor, and the case is presented by Federal agents." '
So put, the challenge has the sound of plausibility. Possibly it would have more of the substance of it if in this
case it did not appear that petitioner himself was responsible, by deliberate choice, for the jury's final composition.
Given ten arbitrary choices among twenty-two prospective jurors not disqualified for cause, of whom thirteen were Government employees and nine privately
engaged, he knowingly, of his own right, rejected nine of
the latter and with knowledge or the full opportunity to
secure it accepted without challenge all but one of the
former. It would seem that ordinarily one anxious to
secure a jury representative of both private and public
employment in a community like Washington, and particularly to avoid overweighting the jury with Government employees, well might have found a more effective
way of utilizing his peremptory challenges to achieve
those objectives.
The right of peremptory challenge is given, of course,
to be exercised in the party's sole discretion and was so
exercised here. We do not question petitioner's privilege
to utilize his peremptory challenges as he did. But the
right is given in aid of the party's interest to secure a
fair and impartial jury, not for creating ground to claim
partiality which but for its exercise would not exist."
9See note 7.
10 See note 17 infra and text.
1 The right is in the nature of a statutory privilege, variable in
the number of challenges allowed, which may be withheld altogether
without impairing the constitutional guaranties of "an impartial jury"
and a fair trial. Stilson v. United States, 250 U. S.583, 586i quoted
in United States v. Wood, 299 U. S.123, 145.
Except in cases of treason and other capital offenses, no right to
peremptory challenges existed in federal criminal trials until the Act
of June 8, 1$72, 17 Stat. 282, Rev. Stat. § 819, unless a rule of the
particulax federal court made applicable a provision of state law

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

It does not follow that by using the right as he pleases,
he obtains the further one to repudiate the consequences
of his own choice.
Here petitioner was given a fairly and lawfully selected
panel. From it all disqualified for cause were excused.
The fully qualified jurors remaining were fairly everly
distributed among persons publicly and privately employed. For reasons entirely his own, petitioner chose
to eliminate the latter and retain the former. This was
a deliberate choice, not an uninformed one. We need
draw no conclusion concerning whether or not it was
made for the purpose of creating the basis now asserted
for objecting to the jury's composition." Rather we
must take it as having been made exactly for the purpose
for which the right was given, namely, to afford petitioner
an opportunity beyond the minimum requirements of fair
selection to express an arbitrary preference among jurors
properly selected and fully qualified to sit in judgment
on his case. Cf. note 11. Any other view would convict
him of abusing his privilege. This we are unwilling to do.
allowing peremptory challenges in noncapital cases. Act of April 30,
1790, §30, 1 Stat. 112, 119; United States v. Randall, Fed. Cas.
No. 16,118; United States v. Cottingham, Fed. Cas. No. 14,872;
.United States v. McPherson, Fed. Cas. No. 15,703; United States
v. Krouse, Fed. Cas. Nq. 15,544. (However, the right of peremptory challenge in capital cases, which existed at common law, has
been spoken of as "one of the most important of the rights secured
to the accused." Pointer v. United States, 151 U. S. 396, 408; see
also Lewis v. United States, 146 U. S. 370, 376.)
In noncapital cases, such as this, the privilege -affords protection
additional to constitutional guaranties, to be had exclusively at the
party's option. If no such privilege had been given in the District
of Columbia, the normal and valid course of selection in this case
would have produced a jury composed both of federal employees
and persons engaged in private occupations; in other words, would
have made it impossible for petitioner to raise his objection to the
jury's composition.
12 See note 4; also note 11 and text.

FRAZIER v. UNITED STATES.
497

Opinion of the Court.

By the same token we are not willing to join in repudiating the consequences of his own selection. We take
petitioner at his word as expressed by his repeated choices.
The fact that he exercised his peremptory challenges as
he did, so frequently and consistently to eliminate privately employed jurors and retain only Government employees, hardly can be said to give cause for him to claim
overweighting of the jury with Government employees.
There was no defect of the panel in this respect. Nor
is there any claim or basis for one that the prosecution
utilized its peremptory challenges to bring about a jury
constituted only of them. It would be going very far
to say that in the circumstances shown by this record
petitioner was deprived, either in law or in fact, of an
impartial jury or, indeed of one fairly representative
of the community. If deprivation there was, even in the
latter sense, 3 it was the result of his own choice, not of
imperfection in the choices tendered him by law 'or in
the procedures of selection afforded.
In ruling upon petitioner's objection the trial judge
assessed the situation as follows: "Chance has resulted
in this jury panel of twelve being composed of Government employees, but the jury list from which they by
chance were selected is a mixture of Government employees and private employees.""
Even in this view of
what took place, petitioner. has no cause to complain.
The well-settled rule is that, given a lawfully selected
panel, free from any taint of invalid exclusions or procedures in selection and from which all disqualified for
cause have been excused, no cause for complaint arises
merely from the fact that the jury finally chosen happens
itself not to be representative of the panel or indeed of
13 The assumption is not meant to imply that such a deprivation
alone would constitute grounds for challenge to the jury. See text
and authorities cited infra at note 15.
14 See note 7.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

the community." There is, under such circumstances,
no right to any particular composition or group representation on the jury."
Finally, in this phase of the ease, UnitedStates v. Wood,
299 U. S. 123, goes far togard precluding petitioner's
objection. That decision sustained the Act of Congress.
of August 22, 1935. now D. C. Code (1940) § 11-1420,
removing. (with specified exceptions) the disqualification
of Government employees previously existing in the District of Columbia for jury service in criminal and other
cases to which the Government was a party. The disqualification had arisen in 1908 by virtue of the decision,
made on common-law grounds, in Crawford v. United
States, 212 U. S. 183.
Owing to the large and increasing proportion of Government to private employees in the District, the effect
of the Crawford decision had been by 1935 to create
difficulties in securing properly qualified jurors. To meet
this situation the 1935 statute was adopted." It con5

.Ruthegberg v. United States, 245 U. S.480; Thomas v. Texas,
212 U.'S. 278, 282; Virginia v. Rives, 100 U.:S. 31:3, 322-323; Higgins v. United States, 81 U. S. App. D. C. 371, 372, 160 F. 2d 222,
223, see Fay v. New York, 332 U. S.261, 284-285; Thiel v. Southern
Papific Co:, 328 U. S. 217, 220; cf. Akins v. Texas, 325 U. S. 398,

403-404.
16 Ibid.
17.See United States v. Wood, 299 U. S. at 132-133, quoting from
the opinion of the Court of Appeals, 65 App. D. C. 330, 332, 83 F.
2d 587, 589. See also H. R. Rep. No. 1421, Sen. Rep. No. 1297, 74th
Cong., 1st Sess.; 79 Cong. Rec. 13,401, relating to the bill which became the Act of Congress of August 22, 1935, now D. C. Code (1940)

§ 11-1420. The Government's brief in the Wood case, relying upon
figures assembled from various official sources, indicated that of the
probable 353,949 persons otherwise available for jury service in the
District of Columbia as of 1935, some 156,874, or 44.3 per cent, were

disqualified to serve either by virtue of exemption or by the mere.
fact of employment by or receipt of benefits from the Government,
under the ruling in the Crawford case.

FRAZIER v. UNITED STATES.
497

Opinion of the Court.

tinued specified exemptions previously existing, including
all executive and judicial officers of the United States,
and then directed in presently material part: "All other
persons, otherwise qualified according to law whether
employed in the service of the government of the United
States or of the District of Columbia . . . shall be quali-

fied to serve as jurors in the District of Columbia and
shall not be exempt from such service .

. .

."

D. C.

Code (1940) § 11-1420.
The Wood case was a criminal prosecution for theft
from a private corporation. Three of the jurors were
federal employees, challenged for cause on that ground.
In sustaining the conviction and the statute the Court
first held that Congress had not "undertaken to preclude
the ascertainment of actual bias," and that the question
in issue was limited to "implied bias, a bias attributable in
law to the prospective juror regardless of actual partiality." 299 U. S. at 133, 134. As to this the Court said of
the statute, "The enactment itself is tantamount to a legislative declaration that the prior disqualification [under
the Crawford ruling] was artificial and not necessary to
secure impartiality." Id. at 148-149. By way of sustaining the legislative judgment, the Court added on its
own account:
"In criminal prosecutions the Government is acting
simply as. the instrument of the public in enforcing penal laws for the protection of society. In that
enforcement all citizens are interested. It is difficult
to see why a governmental employee, merely by virtue of his employment, is interested in that enforcement either more or less than any good citizen is
or should be.

. .

.

We think that the imputation

of bias simply by virtue of governmental employment, without regard to any actual partiality growing
-out of the nature and circumstances of particular

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

cases, rests on an assumption without any rational
foundation." Ibid.
The Court was not confronted in the Wood case with
the exact situation we have here, namely, that all of the"'
jurors finally selected were Government employees. But
the purport of the decision was that the mere fact of
Government employment, without more, would be insufficient under the statute's mandate to disqualify a juror.
Implicit in this was the conception that, insofar as that
fact alone is or may be effective, Government employees
and persons privately engaged were'put upon the same
basis without any limitation, explicit or implied, upon the
number who might be selected as jurors from either
group.18 The effect of these rulings, we think, was to
make Government employees subject, as are all other
persons and in the same manner, to challenge for "actual
bias" 19 and under all ordinary circumstances only to such
challenge. In that view, absent any basis for such challenge, we do not see how a right to challenge the panel as a
18 Given of course a panel and jury otherwise selected in accordance
with law. Since the Wood case the Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia has held that juries including four and nine Government
employees were not inherently defective. Great Atlantic & Pacific
Tea Co. v. District of Columbia, 67 App. D. C. 30, 89 F. 2d 502;
Higgins v. United States, 81 U. S. App. D. C. 371, 160 F. 2d 222.
The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit has held that a Canal
Zone jury composed entirely of persons who were either employees
or tenants of the Government was. not improperly constituted.
Schackow v. Government of the Canal Zone, 108 F. 2d 625.
19 The phrase "actual bias" is used in this opinion as it was in
the Wood case. The Wood opinion stated: "The bias of a prospective juror may be actual or implied; that is, it may be bias in fact
or bias conclusively presumed as matter of law." 299 U. S. at 133.
It later pointed out that "Challenges at common law were to the
array, that is, with respect to the constitution of the panel, or to
the polls, for disqualification of a juror. Challenges to the polls
were either 'principal' or 'to the favor,' the former being upon

FRAZIER v. UNITED STATES.
497

Opinion of the Court.

whole can arise from the mere fact that the jury chosen by
proper procedures from a properly selected panel turns
out to be composed wholly of Government employees or,
a fortiori, of persons in private employment.
The opinion in the Wood case, however, was very careful to stress more than once that the Sixth Amendment
prescribes no specific tests for determining impartiality.
299 U. S. at 133. It afforded further assurances, beyond those given by Art. III, § 2, cl. 3, relating to trial
by jury, in respect to speed, publicity, impartiality,
etc. Id. at 142. But it did not require in these respects
"the particular forms and procedure used at common
law." P. 143. The opinion emphasized especially that.
"Impartiality is not a technical conception. It is a
state of mind. For the ascertainmefit of this mental
attitude of appropriate indifference, the Constitution lays
down no particular tests and procedure is not chained to
any ancient and artificial formula." Pp. 145-146.
This seems to contemplate implicitly that in each case
a broad discretion and duty reside in the court io see that
the jury as finally selected is subject to no solid basis
of objection on the score of impartiality, even though that
basis might possibly arise through the working of chance
or other lawful factors wholly within the framework of
proper procedures for selecting the panel and choosing the
jury from it. Such a situation could arise, if at all, only
in the rarest and most extraordinary combination of cirgrounds of absolute disqualification, the latter for actual bias."
Pp. 134-135. As appears from the portion of the opinion quoted
in the text infra at note 23, the Court regarded "actual bias" or
challenge "to the favor' as including not only prejudice in the subjective sense but also such as might be thought implicitly to arise

"in view of the nature or circumstances of his employment, or of
the relation of the particular governmental 'activity to the matters
involved in the prosecution, or otherwise."'

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

cumstances. But even if that possibility is taken as conceded, for the reasons we have already stated this case
presents no such problem.
III. The challenges to Jurors Moore and Root.-Considered as independent and individual challenges for "actual bias," 20 the objections to these jurors come too late.
Moore was a Treasury messenger. Root's wife was a
Treasury 'employee. Petitioner's counsel knew of the
employment of Root's wife and that Moore was a federal
employee. He did not inquire where Moore was employed, but could have known his employment's exact
nature." It does not appear that either Moore or Root's
wife v~as connected with the Bureau of Narcotics or had
any duty even remotely relating to its functions or those
of the Secretary.in relation to them. 2
As respects challenge for "actual bias," the Wood opinion was careful to put Government employees on the
same basis as prospective jurors privately employed. It
stated:
"All the resources of appropriate judicial inquiry
remain available in this instance as in others to ascertain whether a prospective juror, although not
exempted from service, has any bias in fact which
would prevent his serving as an impartial juror. In
dealing with an employee of the Government, the
court would properly be solicitous to discover
whether, in view of the nature or circumstances of his
employment, or of the relation of the particular
Cf. text supraat notes 3 and 8.
from petitioner's 'opportunity for discovery by specific
inquiry, lists of jury panels, showing the name, age, address, and
occupation of each member are prepared in the criminal division of
the District Court for the District of Columbia and are available to
counsel before trial on request.
" Cf. note 2.
20

21Apart

FRAZIER v. UNITED STATES.
497

Opinion of the Court.

governmental activity to the matters involved in the
prosecution, or otherwise, he had actual bias, and,
if he had, to disqualify him." 23
Petitioner challenged neither Moore nor Root for
"actual bias," though afforded the fullest opportunity
legally and factually for doing so. After accepting them
before trial, he could not challenge them successfully in
a motion for a new trial. Queen v. Hepburn, 7 Cranch
290, 297; Raub v. Carpenter, 187 U. S. 159; cf. United
States v. Gale, 109 U. S. 65. See Kohl v. Lehlback, i60
U. S. 293, 299-302. Whether or not employment in the
Treasury outside the Narcotics Bureau would constitute
ground for challenge for "actual bias," " such employment
in the connections disclosed here affecting Moore and
Root was not so obvious a disqualification or so inherently
prejudicial as a matter of law, in the absence of any
challenge to them before trial, as to reqCiire the court
of its own motion or on petitioner's suggestion afterward
to set the verdict aside and grant a new trial.
The challenge to Moore and Root stands no better if
considered, not as a belated individual challenge 'for
"actual bias" to each, but as additional support or buttressing for the challenge to the composition of the jury
U. S. at 133-134.
In United States v. Wood the Court, speaking of the Crawford
case, said: "It will be observed that the employment was in the very
department to the affairs of which the alleged conspiracy related.
But the decision took a broader range and did not rest upon that
possible distinction." 299 U. S. at 140. It is at least highly doubtful
that an employment having no more relationship to the particular
governmental activity involved in the prosecution than did that of
Moore in this case, cf. note 2, or thrat of Root's wife, would give
ground for challenge for "actual bias," although coming under the
same ultimate departmental supervision, even though if timely called
to the court's attention the circumstance might afford basis for the
court, in an excess of caution, to excusc the venireman.
23299
24

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

as a whole. Apart from the fact that the two sorts of.
challenge are distinct and are therefore to be dealt with
separately, the challenge to the composition of the jury
as made to the trial court and as ruled upon by it, made
no special reference to either Moore or Root or the particular bases for objection now raised to them. 5 Those
references, so far as is shown by the record, first appeared
in the assignments of error made by petitioner in the
Court of Appeals. They therefore came too late, even if
they could be considered as forming part of the challenge
to the jury's composition or as adding anything of weight
to that challenge.
Whether the matter is considered technically or on the
broader, nontechnical basis of impartiality as a state of
mind, petitioner has shown no ground for believing that
he did not receive a trial "by an impartial jury" such as
the Sixth Amendment assured him.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, dissenting.

On one proposition I should expect trial lawyers to
be nearly unanimous: that a jury, every member of which
is in the hire of one of the litigants, lacks something of
being an impartial jury. A system which has produced
such an objectionable result and always tends to repeat
it, should, in my opinion, be disapproved by this Court
in exercise of its supervisory power over federal courts.
Were the employer an individual, a railroad, an industrial concern, or even a state, I think bias would more
readily be implied;- but its existence would be no more
probable. This criminal trial was an adversary proceeding, with the Government both an actual and nominal
25

See note 7.

FRAZIER v. UNITED STATES.
497

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

litigant. It was the patron and benefactor of the whole
jury, plus one juror's wife for good measure. At .the
same time that it made its plea to them to convict, it
had the upper hand of every one of them in matters
such as pay and promotion. Of late years, the Government is using its power as never before to pry into their
lives and thoughts upon the slightest suspicion of less
than complete trustworthiness. It demands not only
probity but unquestioning ideological loyalty. A government employee cannot today be disinterested or unconcerned about his appearance of faithful and enthusiastic support for government departments whose prestige
and record is, somewhat, if only a little, at stake in every
such prosecution. And prosecutors seldom fail to stress,
if not to exaggerate, the importance of the case before
them to the whole social, if not the cosmic, order. Even
if we have no reason to believe that an acquitting juror
would be subjected to embarrassments or reprisals, we
cannot expect every clerk and messenger in the great
bureaucracy to feel so secure as to put his dependence
on the Government wholly out of mind. I do not doubt
that the-government employees as a class possess a normal
independence and fortitude. But we have grounds to
assume also that the normal proportion of them are subject to that very human weakness, especially displayed
in Washington, which leads men to ". . . crook the pregnant hinges of the knee where thrift may follow fawning."
So I reject as spurious any view that government employment differs from all other employment in creating no
psychological pressure of dependency or interest in gaining favor, which might tend to predetermine issues in
the interest of the party which has complete mastery
over the juror's ambition and position. But even if this
suspicion can be dismissed by the Court as a mere phantasy, it cannot deny that such a jury has a one-sided

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

outlook on problems before it and an appearance of
government leverage which is itself a blemish on the
name of justice in the District of Columbia.
Because this semblance of partiality reflects on the
courts, even if it does not prejudice the defendant in a
particular case, I am not disposed to labor the argument
as to whether counsel for this defendant did all that he
might or should have done by way of objection. He did
protest as soon as it was apparent what was happening
to him, and that seems to me sufficient in face of adverse
rulings. But even if defendant's objection were belated
or technically defective, I still think the court deserves
and should require a more neutral jury for its own appearances, even if defendant does not deserve and cannot
demand one.
The cause of overloading this jury with persons beholden to the Government is no mystery and no accident.
It is due to a defect in a system which will continue to
operate in the same direction so long as the same practice
is followed. While counsel did not prove it under oath,
he stated it for the record and neither the District Attorney nor the learned Trial Judge, both of whom must have
known the facts, denied or questioned his statement or
asked him for better evidence. That defect is this: when
the panel of jurors was drawn, the court appears to have
asked all those who -did not wish to serve to step aside,
and they were excused from serving.
This amiable concession in some jurisdictions might
produce no distortion of the composition of the panel;
but it is certain to do just that in the District of Columbia
because of the dual standard and dubious method of
jury compensation. The nongovernment juror receives
$4 per day,1 which under present conditions is inadequateto be, compensatory to nearly every gainfully employed
'D. C. Code, title 11,§ 1513 (1940).

FRAZIER v. UNITED STATES.
497

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

juror. But the government employee is not paid specially; instead, he is given leave from his government
work with full pay while serving on the jury.2 The latter
class are thus induced to jury service by protection against
any financial loss, while the former are subjected to
considerable disadvantage.
This condition makes it obvious that, if jury service
is put on virtually a voluntary basis and qualified persons
are allowed to decline jury service at their own option,
the panel will become loaded with government employees.
If this undue concentration of such jurors were accomplished by any device which excluded nongovernment
jurors, it unquestionably would be condemned not only
by"reason of but even without resort to the doctrine that
prevailed in Ballard v. United States, 329 U. S. 187;
Thiel v. Southern Pacific Co., 328 U. S. 217; and Glasser
v. United States, 315 U. S.60.
Is the result more lawful when it is accomplished by
letting one class exclude themselves, stimulated to do so
by the incentive of such a dual system of compensation?
Of course, the defendant and the prosecution each have
peremptory challenges, ten in this case, which enable each
without assigning any cause to excuse that number whom
they do not wish to have sit. This defendant used many
of his challenges to excuse talesmen not employed by the
Government and it is hinted that he may have packed
this jury against himself. The learned Trial Judge made
no such suggestion, however, and he would be better able
than we to detect such tactics. He blamed the situation
on "chance." But the fickle goddess is hardly to b(
blamed for the result when it can be seen that the cards
were stacked from the beginning. This was plainly the
case when we contrast unequal advantages which the two
parties could get from their equal numbers of challenges.
2 D.

C. Code, title 11, §§ 1421-23 (1940).

798176 0-49---18

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

The Government was confronted by no occasion to use
any of its peremptory challenges to get rid of its adversary's employees. The defendant was. But if the defendant should try to use his challenges to excuse employees of the Government, he would dismiss one only
to incur a probability of getting another. If he exhausted
his challenges in this effort, it would still be futile, for
no one claims he had enough to displace them all. It
might not be wise tactics to show suspicion or disapproval
of a class some of whom will have to sit anyway. Moreover, if he used his challenges as far as they would go
to dislodge government servants, it would leave him helpless to challenge any of the nongovernment jurors, for
which challenge he might have good reason.
The disadvantage of defendant as to talesmen from
government ranks is more apparent but not more prejudicial than with talesmen from other walks of life. Whatever reason he may have had for excusing such a one,
the price he would probably have had to pay for using
his challenge was to have one government employee take
another's place. The Government could vacate the seat
of a nongovernment talesman with no such unwelcome
results. The short of the thing is: in no case where
the court has intervened to use its supervisory power to
revise federal jury systems has there been any result so
consistently and inevitably prejudicial to one of the litigants as here, under our noses. Ballard v. United States,
329 U. S. 187; Thiel v. Southern Pacific, 328 U. S. 217;
Glasser v. United States, 315 U. S. 60. And in cases
where a strong minority of the Court has wanted to go so
far as to upset a state jury system, as offensive to fundamental consideratio~s of justice spelled out from the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, there has
been no such brazen unfairness in actual practice. Moore
v. New York, 333 U. S. 565; Fay v. New York, 332 U. S.
261.

FRAZIER v. UNITED STATES.
497

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

The precedent of United States v. Wood, 299 U. S. 123,
on which the Court leans heavily, is a weak crutch. That
decision held only that the absolute disqualification of
any federal employee, which had been declared in Crawford v. United States, 212 U. S. 183, could constitutionally
be removed by the Congress. In the case the Court was
considering only three out of the twelve were by chance
government beneficiaries and the Court was not confronted with such a systematic distortion of the jury as
was at work here., It held that, individually, they were
not subject to challenge for cause; that is, they were not
excusable by the court merely because they were government employees. But to hold that one or a few government employees may sit by chance is no precedent for
holding that they may fill all of the chairs by a system
of retiring everyone else. Furthermore, that opinion
emphasized that the prosecution in that case was for
larceny froM a private corporation. That was not an
offense against the Federal Government as such, except
as it has responsibility for prosecuting crimes in the District that in the state would be a matter of no federal
concern or even jurisdiction. But the prosecution before
us is not for an offense of a private aspect; it is an offense
against no one except federal government policy; and
the Secretary of the Treasury, in whose own office
one of these jurors was employed, has exclusive and
nationwide responsibility for enforcement of the law
involved.
If we admit every fact, premise, argument and conclusion stated in the Court's opinion, it still leaves this
one situation unexplained and unjustified. In federal
courts, over which we have supervisory power, sitting
almost within a stone's throw of where we sit, a system
is in operation which has produced and is likely again
and again to produce what disinterested persons are likely
to regard as a packed jury. Approval of it, after all that

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

335 U. S.

has been written of late on the subject of juries, makes
these lofty pronouncements sound a little hollow.
I would reverse this rather insignificant conviction and
end this system before it builds up into a scandalous
necessity for reversal of some really significant conviction.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY join in this opinion.

CORAY, ANCILLARY ADMINISTRATOR,
SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF UTAH.

No. 54.

Argued December 6-7, 1948.-Decided January 3, 1949.

In a suit under the Federal Safety Appliance and Federal Employers'
Liability Acts to recover damages for the death of a railroad
employee, the undisputed evidence established that the employee
was killed when a motor-driven track car on which he was following
a train crashed into the train when it stopped suddenly and
unexpectedly because of a defective air-brake appliance. Held:
1. His administrator was entitled to recover if this defective
appliance was the sole or a contributory proximate cause of the
employee's death. Pp. 521-523.
2. On the evidence in this case, the jury could have found that
decedent's death resulted in whole or in part from the defective
appliance; and it was error to direct a verdict for the railroad.
Pp. 523-524.
Utah -,
185 P. 2d 963, reversed.

In a suit under the Federal Safety Appliance and Federal Employers' Liability Acts to recover damages from
a railroad for the death of an employee, a state trial court
directed a verdict for the railroad. The Supreme Court
of Utah affirmed. Utah - , 185 P. 2d 963. This
Court granted certiorari. 335 U. S. 807. Reversed and
.remanded,p. 524.

