KORDEL v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

KORDEL v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 30.

Argued October 14, 1948.-Decided November 22, 1948.

1. It is a violation of § 301 (a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 52 Stat. 1040, 21 U. S. C. § 331 (a), to ship in interstate
commerce to the same consignee a drug and also false and misleading pamphlets designed for use in the advertisement, sale and use
of the drug and constituting an essential supplement to the label
on the drug--even though the pamphlets are shipped separately
and at a different time. Pp. 346-350.
(a) The phrase "accompanying such article" in § 201 (m), defining "labeling," is not restricted to labels that are on or in the
article or package that is transported. Pp. 347-350.
(b) That the )amphlets are shipped prior to or subsequent to
the shipment of the drug does not prevent the drug from being
"misbranded" when introduced into commerce within the meaning
of § 301 (a) in spite of § 301 (k), which forbids misbranding of a
drug while it is held for sale after shipment in interstate commerce.
Pp. 350, 351-352.
2. That such pamphlets bear a sale price and are offered for sale
is immaterial, since the Act cannot be circumvented by the easy
device of a "sale" of the pamphlets where they perform the function
of labeling. P. 350.
3. The fact that, in the evolution of the Act, the ban on false
advertising was eliminated and its control was transferred to the
Federal Trade Commission did not eliminate from the Act advertising which performs the function of labeling. P. 351.
4. Since the informations charging violations of § 301 (a) did not
allege that the acts committed were done "with intent to defraud,"
the maximum penalty was imprisonment for not more than a year,
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both. Therefore, prosecution by information was authorized by the statute and -by § 7 (a)
of the Rules of Criminal Procedure. P. 348, n. 3.
164 F. 2d 913, affirmed.

Petitioner was convicted in a federal district court. of
violating § 301 (a) -of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 52 Stat. 1040, 21 U. S. C. § 331 (a). 66 F.

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

Supp. 538. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 164 F. 2d
913. This Court granted certiorari. 333 U. S. 872.
Affirmed, p. 352.
Arthur D. Herrick argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Solicitor General Perlman argued the cause for the
United States. With him on the brief were Philip Elman,
William W. Goodrich and Bernard D. Levinson.
Opinion of -the Court by MR.

nounced by MR.

JUSTICE

DOUGLAS, an-

JUSTICE REED.

This case andUnited States v. Urbuteit, post, p. 355,
decided this day, are here on certiorari to resolve a conflict among the circuits in the construction of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of June 25, 1938. 52 Stat.
1040, 21 U. S. C. § 301 et seq.
Kordel was charged by informations containing twenty
counts of introducing or delivering for introduction into
interstate commerce misbranded drugs. He was tried
without a jury, found guilty, and fined two hundred
dollars on each count. 66 F. Supp. 538. This judgment
was affirmed on appeal. 164 F. 2d 913.
Kordel writes and lectures on health foods from information derived from studies in public and private libraries. Since 1941. he has been marketing his own health
food products, which appear to be compounds of various
vitamins, minerals and herbs. The alleged misbranding.
consists of statements in circulars or pamphlets distributed to consumers by the vendors of the products, relating
to their efficacy. The petitioner supplies these pamphlets as well as the products to the vendors. Some of
the literature was displayed in stores in which the petitioner's products were on sale. Some of it was given

KORDEL v. UNITED STATES.
345

347

Opinion of the Court.

away with the sale of products; some sold independently
of the drugs; and. some mailed to customers by the
vendors.
. It is undisputed that petitioner shipped or caused to
be shipped in interstate commerce both the drugs and the
literature. Seven of the counts charged that the drugs
and literature were shipped in the same cartons. The
literature involved in the other counts was shipped separately from the drugs and at different times-both before
and after the shipments of the drugs with which they were
associated. The question whether the separate shipment
of the literature saved the drugs from being misbranded
within the meaning of the Act presents the main issue
in the case.
Section 301 (a) of the Act prohibits the introduction
into interstate commerce of any drug that is adulterated
or misbranded.1 It is misbranded according to § 502 (a)
if its "labeling is false or misleading in any particular" and
unless the labeling bears "adequate directions for use."
§ 502 (f). The term labeling is defined in § 201 (m) to
1 Section 301 in relevant part reads as follows:
"The following acts and the causing thereof are hereby prohibited:
"(a) The introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate
commerce of any food, drug, device, or cosmetic that is adulterated

or misbranded.
"(b) The adulteration or misbranding of any food, drug, device, or
cosmetic in interstate commerce.
"(c) The receipt in interstate commerce of any food, drug, device, or
cosmetic that is adulterated or misbranded, and the delivery or proffered delivery thereof for pay or otherwise.
S"(k) The alteration, mutilation, destruction, obliteration, or removal of the whole or any part of the labeling of, or the doing of any
other act with respect to, a food, drug, device, or cosmetic, if such act
is done while such article is held for sale after shipment in interstate
commerce and results in such article being misbranded."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

mean "all labels 2 and other written, printed, or graphic
matter (1) upon any article or any of its containers or
wrappers, or (2) accompanying such article." Section
303 makes the violation of any of the provisions of § 301
a crime.'
In this case the drugs and the literature had a common
origin and a common destination. The literature was
used in the sale of the drugs. It explained their uses.
Nowhere else was the purchaser advised how to use them.
It constituted an essential supplement to the label attached to the package. Thus the products and the literature were interdependent, as the Court of Appeals
observed.
It would take an extremely narrow reading of the Act
to hold that these drugs were not misbranded. A crimi2 The term label is defined as "a display of written, printed, or
graphic matter upon the immediate container of any article."
§ 201 (k).
3,.SEC, 303. (a) Any person who violates any of the provisions of
section 301 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall on conviction
thereof be subject to imprisonment for not more than one year, or
a fine of not more than $1,000, or both such imprisonment and fine;
but if the violation is committed after a conviction of such person
under this section has become final such person shall be subject to
imprisonment for not more than three years, or a fine of not more
than $10,000, or both such imprisonment 'nd fine.
"(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, in case of a violation of any of the provisions of section 301, with
intent to defraud or mislead, the penalty shall be imprisonment for
.not more than three years, or a fine of not more than $10,000, or
both such imprisonment and fine."
The informations, in charging violations of § 301 (a), did not allege
that the acts committed were done "with intent to defraud." Hence
the maxnium penalty was imprisonment for not more than a year,
or a fine of not more'than $1,000, or both. Prosecution by information was therefore authorized by the statute (see Duke v. United
States, 301 U. S. 492) and by Rule 7 (a) of the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure.

KORDEL v. UNITED STATES.
345

Opinion of the Courti.

nal law is not to be read expansively to include what
is not plainly embraced within the language of the statute
(United States v. Resnick, 299 U. S. 207; Kraus & Bros.
v. United States, 327 U. S. 614, 621-622), since the purpose fairly to apprise men of the boundaries of the prohibited action would then be defeated. United States
v. Sullivan, 332 U. S. 689, 693; Winters v. New York,
333 U. S. 507. But there is no canon against using common sense in reading a criminal law, so that strained
and technical constructions do not defeat its purpose by
creating exceptions from or loopholes in it. See Roschen
v. Ward, 279 U. S. 337, 339.
It would, indeed, create an obviously wide loophole to
hold that these drugs would be misbranded if the litera"ture had been shipped in the same container but not
misbranded if the literature left in the next or in the
preceding mail. The high purpose of the Act to protect
consumers who under present conditions are largely unable to protect themselves in this field' would then be
easily defeated. The administrative agency charged with
its enforcement ' has not given the Act any such restricted
construction.' The textual structure of the Act is not
agreeable to it. Accordingly, we conclude that the phrase
"accompanying such article" is not -restricted to labels
that are on or in the article or package that is transported.
The first clause of § 201 (m)-all labels "upon any
article or any of its containers or wrappers"-clearly
See United States v. Dottvrwcich. 320 U. S. 277, 280; United
stattes N'.Sulliva,a siwri, 1). fi!).
SSee § 701 :tin § 201 (c); 1940 Reorg. Plan No. IV, § 12, 54 Stat.
2:31,5 U. S. C. § 133 (u).
1 The Federal Security Agency by regullation (21 C. F. 1. Cure.
Supp. § 2.2) hias ruled:
"Lii eling includes all written, printed, or grap hic n'atter accompanying an article at any tini" while such article is in interstate
commerce or held for -ale after shipment or (eliwery in interstate
commnnerce."

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

embraces advertising or descriptive matter that goes with
the package in which the articles are transported. The
second clause-"accompanying such article"-has no specific reference to packages, containers or their contents
as did a predecessor statute. See Seven Cases v. United
States, 239 U. S. 510, 513, 515. It plainly includes what
.is' contained within the package whether or not it is
"upon" the article or its wrapper or container. But the
second clause does not say "accompanying such article
in the package or container," and we see no reason for
reading the additional words into the text.
One article or thing is accompanied by another when
it supplements or explains it, in the manner that a committee -report of the Congress accompanies a bill. No
physical attachment one to the other is necessary. It
is the textual relationship that is significant. The analogy to the present case is obvious. We need not labor
the point.
The false and misleading literature in the present case
was designed for use in the distribution and sale of the
drug, and it was so used. The fact that it went in a
different mail was wholly irrelevant whether we judge
the transaction by purpose or result. And to say that
the prior or subsequent shipment of the literature disproves that it "is" misbranded when introduced into commerce within the meaning of § 301 (a), is to overlook
the integrated nature of the transactions established in
this case.
Moreover, the fact that some of the booklets carried
a selling price is immaterial on the facts shown here. As
stated by the Court of Appeals, the booklets and drugs
were nonetheless interdependent; they were parts of an
integrated distribution program. The Act cannot be
circumvented by the easy device of a "sale" of the advertising matter where the advertising performs the function
of labeling.

KORDEL v. UNITED STATES.
345

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner points out that in the evolution of the Act
the ban on false advertising was eliminated, the control
over it being transferred to the Federal Trade Commission. 52 Stat. 114, 15 U. S. C. § 55 (a). We have
searched the legislative history in vain, however, to find
any indication that Congress had the purpose to eliminate
from the Act advertising which performs the function of
labeling. Every labeling is in a sense an advertisement.
The advertising which we have here performs the same
funtion as it would if it were on the article or on the container's or wrappers. As we have said, physical attachr
ment or contiguity is unnecessary under § 201 (m) (2).
There is a suggestion that the offense in this case falls
under § 301 (k) of the Act which includes misbranding of
a drug while it is held for sale after shipment in interstate
commerce.! Since the informations contain no such
charge, it is therefore claimed that the judgment must be
reversed. We do not agree. Section 301 (k) has a broad
sweep, not restricted to those who introduce or deliver
for introduction drugs in interstate commerce.' See
United States v. Sullivan, supra. Nor is it confined to
adulteration or misbranding as is § 301 (a). Id. It is,
however, restricted to cases where the article is held for
sale after shipment in interstate commerce; and, unlike
§ 301 (a), it does not reach situations where the manufacturer sells directly to the consumer. Cf. United States
v. Urbuteit, supra. Hence we conclude that we do not
disturb the statutory scheme when we refuse to take from
§ 301 (a) what is fairly included, in it in order to leave
7See note 1, supra.
s The purpose of § 301 (k) was described in H. R: Rep. No. 2139,
75th Cong., 3d Sess. 3 (1938), as follows:
"In order to extend the protection of consumers contemplated by
the law'to the full extent constitutionally possible, paragraph (k) has
been inserted prohibiting the changing of labels so as to misbrand

articles held for sale after interstate shipment."

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BLACK,

J:, dissenting.

335 U. S.

the matter wholly to the service of § 301 (k). The reach
of § 301 (a) is in this respect longer. Such a transfer
to § 301 (k) would create a new hiatus in the Act and
thus disturb the pattern which we discern in it.
We have considered the other objections tendered by
petitioner and find them without merit.
Affirmed.
MR: JUSTICE BLACK, with whom MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

concur, dissenting.
I agree with the Court's interpretation of § 502 (a) and
§ 201 (in) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
These sections considered together provide a definition for
the "misbran ding" of drugs. I agree that a drug is misbranded within the meaning of the statute if false and
misleading written, printed, or graphic matter is either
placed upon the drug" its container or wrappers, or used
in the sale of the drug as a supplement to the package
label to advise consumers how to use the drug. I agree
that false labels may, within the meaning of the statute,
"accompany," that is go along with, a drug on its interstate journey even though not in the same carton, on
the same train, in the same mail, or delivered for shipment
the same day. But these agreements do not settle all
the problems in this case.
The Fed ,ral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act does not
purport to make all misbranding of drugs within the foregoing definition a federal offense. Congressional power
to pass the Act is based upon the commerce clause. Consequently misbranding is only an offense if the misbranded drugs bear the statutorily defined relationships
to interstate commerce. For illustration, if a person misbranded a drug which had not been and was not thereafter
introduced into interstate commerce, there would be no

KORDEL v. UNITED STATES.
345

353.

BLACK, J., dissenting.

violation of the federal Act, whatever violation there
might be of state law.
As we pointed out in United States v. Sullivan, 332
U. S. 689, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
creates several offenses each of which separately depends
upon the relationship the misbranded drug then bears to
interstate commerce. Section 301 (a) forbids the "introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce" of misbranded drugs; § 301 (b) forbids misbranding while the drugs are "in interstate commerce"; § 301
(c) prohibits the "receipt" of such drugs in interstate
commerce; and § 301 (k) forbids misbranding while
drugs are "held for sale after shipment in interstate
commerce."
The twenty counts of the information upon which this
petitioner's conviction rests, charge that he had introduced drugs into interstate commerce, and that "when" he
so introduced the drugs, they were "misbranded . . .in
that . . . statements appearing in . . . bulletins and

booklets acconipanyinqg" the drugs "were false and'misleading." (Emphasis supplied.). The undisputed evidence as to thirteen of these counts showed that when,
the drugs were "introduced" into interstate commerce
for shipment, they were not within any fair meaning
of the word "accompanied" by the printed matter relied
on as "labeling." The evidence under one count was
that the drugs were shipped July 10, 1942, while the
booklets said to be "labels" were sent a year and a'half
later, January 18, 1944. Thus, each of these counts
charged a violation of the separate and distinct offense.
of introducing misbranded drugs into interstate comnmerce, prohibited by § 301 (a). The evidence proves the
offense, if any, of violation of § 301 (k), which prohibits
the misbranding of drugs while held for sale after an
interstate shipment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

The Court's interpretation of § 301 (a) seems to me
to create a new offense to make it a crime to introduce
drugs into interstate commerce if they should subsequently be misbranded, even so long as eighteen months
later while held for sale. This judicial action is justified in part on the ground that the offense Congress
created in § 301 (k) for holding misbranded drugs for sale
after interstate shipment might not reach all situations
covered by the congressionally created offense defined by
§ 301 (a). If as the Court believes, Congress in § 301 (k)
has limited the situations for which it will direct punishment for holding misbranded articles for sale, I cannot
agree that we should rewrite § 301 (a) 5o as to broaden
its coverage. If Congress left a hiatus, Congress should
fill it if it so desires. While I do not doubt the wisdom
of separating these offenses as Congress has here done,
we must remember that there are dangers in splitting up
one and the same transaction into many offenses. See
Blockburger v. United States, 284 U. S. 299, 304-305.
These are serious offenses. While petitioner was fined
only $200 on each count, or a total of $4,000, the maximum allowable punishment was $1,000 per count and
imprisonment for one year, or for three years under other
circumstances. § 303 (a). 'The approach of Congress in
this field of penal regulation has been cautious. The
language used by Congress in .the present law in defining
new offenses has been marked by precision. I think we
should exercise a similar caution before reading into the
"introduction into interstate commerce" offense, conduct
which patently fits'into the "held for sale" offense.
I would reverse the judgment here insofar as it rests on
the thirteen counts' in which the Government charged
offenses under § 301 (a) and failed to' prove them.

