KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.

601

Syllabus.
KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 42. Argued October 20, 1948.-Decided January 17, 1949.
Nine years after petitioner -had been admitted to citizenship and
granted a certificate of naturalization, the United States filed a
complaint in a federal district court in New Jersey, under 8 U. S. C.
§ 738, to set aside the order and cancel the certificate. It alleged
that his oath of allegiance was false; that subsequently by writings
and speeches he had evidenced his loyalty to Germany and disloyalty to the United States; and that he was a leader and a
member of the German American Bund and other subversive organizations. He was served with notice, but failed to answer within
sixty days as required by 8 U. S. C. § 738 (b). (Seven days before
expiration of the sixty days, he was arrested on federal criminal
charges and confined in a New York jail.) Without. hearings or
evidence, the court entered a default judgment setting aside the
order admitting him to citizenship and canceling his certificate of
naturalization. More than four years later and while still a federal
prisoner, he filed in the same court a verified petition praying that
the default judgment be set aside. Inter alia, he alleged in substance that, while wrongfully holding him in New York, Michigan,
and District of Columbia jails, the Government caused a district
court in New Jersey to revoke his citizenship on the ground that
he had failed to appear and defend, although he was at the time
without funds to hire a lawyer. These allegations were undenied.
The district court dismissed the petition on the ground of laches.
The Court of Appeals affirmed. Held: The judgments are reversed
and the cause is remanded to the district court with instructions to
set aside the default judgment and grant petitioner a hearing on
the merits of the issues raised by the denaturalization complaint.
Pp. 602-608, 615-616. [This judgment modified, 336 U. S. 942.]
166 F. 2d 273, reversed.

A federal district court entered a default judgment setting aside an order admitting petitioner to citizenship
and canceling his certificate of naturalization. More
than four years later, he petitioned the same court to set
aside the default judgment, but his petition was dismissed
on the ground of laches. 6 F. R. D. 450. The Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

BLACK, J.

335 U. S.

Appeals affirmed. 166 F. 2d 273. This Court granted
certiorari. 334 U. S. 818. Reversed, pp. 615-616.
P. Bateman Ennis argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were W. Clifton Stone and Morton
Singer.
Robert L. Stern argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,
Robert S. Erdahl and Beatrice Rosenberg.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK announced the judgment of the
Court and delivered the following opinion in which MR.
JUSTICE DOUGLAS joins.
This case raises questions concerning the power of federal district courts to enter default judgments depriving naturalized persons of their citizenship without hearings or evidence, and to set aside default judgments under
some circumstances four years or more after the default
judgments were entered.
The petitioner Was born in Germany. In 1933 after
a hearing a New Jersey state court entered a judgment
admitting him to United States citizenship. Petitioner.
then to.ok an oath renouncing allegiance to Gernmany and
promising to bear true faith and allegiance to the United
States, whereupon the court granted him a certificate of
naturalization. See 8 U. S. C. § 735.
Nine years later the United States Attorney, acting
pursuant to 8 U. S. C. § 738, filed a complaint in the
United S'tates District Court of New Jersey to set aside
the state court's judgment and cancel petitioner's certificate of naturalization. The complaint alleged generally that petitioner's oath of allegiance, etc., was false,
that at the time of taking it petitioner well knew that
he was not attached to the principles of the United States
Constitution, and that he had not in fact intended thereafter to bear true allegiance to the United States or renounce and dliscontinue his allegiance and fidelity to Ger-

KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
601

Opinion of

BLACK, J.

many. In particular the complaint charged no more than
that petitioner subsequent to 1935 had evidenced his loyalty to Germany and his disloyalty to this country by
writings and speeches; that he was in 1942 and had
been before that time a leader and member of the German
American Bund and other organizations, the principles
of which were alleged to be inimical to the Constitution
of the United States and the happiness of its people;
that these organizations were propagated and encouraged
by enemies of the United States who believed in the
ideology enunciated by Adolph Hitler. For the require-.
ment that allegations of fraud be particularized, see Rule
9 (b) of the Rules of Civil Procedure.
Petitioner, though served with notice May 15, 1942,
failed to answer the complaint within sixty days as required by 8 U. S. C. § 738 (b). But on July 7,1942, before
expiration of the sixty days, petitioner was arrested
and confined in a New York jail on crimiinal charges
brought by the United States. On July 17, 1942, the
Federal District Court of New Jersey. on motion of the
United States Attorney, entered a judgment by default
against petitioner in the denaturalization proceedings, set
aside the 1933 state court judgment admitting him to
citizenship, and cancelled his certificate of naturalization.
More than four years after the default judgment was
rendered against him, and while petitioner was still a
government prisoner, he filed in the District Court a verified petition praying that the court set aside the judgment. The United States did not deny any of the facts
alleged in the verified petition. The District Court, necessarily accepting the undenied allegations as true, held
that the petitioner had been guilty of "willful and inexcusable neglect" and accordingly dismissed the petition
"because of the defendant's laches." 6 F. R. D. 450.
The United States Court of Appeals, rejecting petitioner's
several contentions, affirmed, one judge dissenting. 166
F. 2d 273.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

BLACK,

J.

335 U. S.

In cor..,dering the case we also must accept as true the
undenied allegations of the petitioner. These facts are
of great importance, in considering some of the legal
contentions raised." The alleged facts chronologically
arranged are as follows:
1933
Nov. 16.
1936
Nov. 17.
1942
Spring.

Petitioner was naturalized by order of court.
Petitioner married an American citizen
and now has one child by that marriage.
Petitioner was seriously ill. The illness left
him financially poor and so weakened
that he was unable to work.

May 12.

United States Attorney filed the complaint
in the United States District Court of
New Jersey to cancel petitioner's citizenship.

May 15.

Complain.t served on petitioner. He had no
money to hire a lawyer. He drew a draft
of an answer to the complaint and wrote
a letter to the American Civil Liberties
Union asking that they .represent him
without fee.

July 7.

Arrested under federal indictment charging
petitioner and others with conspiracy to
violate the Selective Service Act. Taken
before United States Comrhiissioner at
Newark, New Jersey; later carried to New
York by Federal Bureau of Investigation
agents, there put in prison, unable to
make bond of $25,000 under which he

KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of

BLACK, J.

was held. His letter to Civil Liberties
Union taken from him by agents of the
FBI eight days before expiration of time
to answer cancellation of citizenship
charge in New Jersey. The agents retained the letter, never mailing it.
1942
July 17.

July 7,
1942; -dao-

of arrest,
to June
1943.

1943
June.

Judgment by default entered by New Jersey
court in citizenship cancellation case.
At the time, petitioner was in a New York
jail awaiting trial under the selective service conspiracy case. No evidence was
offered by the Government to prove its
charges in the complaint for cancellation
of citizenship. The Government's case
consisted of no more than a'verification
of this complaint by an FBI agent on
information and belief, based on the
agent's having read FBI files concerning
petitioner.
While petitioner was still in jail, a lawyer
was appointed by the New York District
Court to defend petitioner in the selective
service criminal case. At his request the
New York lawyer promised to help him
also in the New Jersey cancellation proceedings, but the lawyer neglected to do
so. Petitioner was convicted and sentenced to penitentiary.
Petitioner elected to begin service of the
New York sentence pending appeal, was
carried to and confined in federal institution in Michigan where he remained until
January 30, 1944.

606

OCTOBER TERM. 1948.
Opinion of

BLACK,

,J.

335 U. S.

1944

Jan. 30.

1945
June 11.

Petitioner transferred from federal prison in
Michigan to jail in the District of Columbia to be tried with twenty-nine other
persons on a charge of sedition.
This Court reversed petitioner's New York
conviction, Keegan v. United States, 325
U. S. 478, but he continued to be held in
the District of Columbia jail until November 22, 1946.

1946

Nov. 22.

District of Columbia sedition case dismissed.
United States v. McWilliams et al., 82
U. S. App. D. C. 259. 163 F. 2d 695. The
case had previously been tried for eight
months, but before completion a mistrial
was declared because of the death of the
presiding judge. Shortly after dismissal
of the sedition case petitioner, still a prisoner of the United States, was carried to
Ellis Island for deportation on account
of the cancellation of his citizenship under the New Jersey default judgment.

Dec. 9.

This Court denied certiorari in three court
actions unsuccessfully prosecuted by the
Citizens Protective League on behalf of
159 individuals including )etitioner.
(The League was a non-profit organization "to insure equal rights for all and to
safeguard the constitutional rights'of all
persons." Citizens Protective League v.
Clark, 81 U. S. App. D. C. 116, 117, 155
F. 2d 290, 291; cert. denied, 329 U. S.
787. The complaint prayed that the At-

KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
601

Opinion of

BLACK,

J.

torney General be enjoined from deporting the 159 individuals. Petitioner had
been ordered deported March 27, 1946,
while he was in the District of Columbia
jail charged with sedition.)
1946
Dec. 12.

1947
Feb. 7.

Three days after this Court's denial of certiorari, in the action brought by the
Citizens Protective League, petitioner,
still a government prisoner at Ellis Island,
stated the substance of the foregoing facts
under oath and a petition was filed on hisbehalf in the New Jersey District Court
to vacate the default judgment and grant
him a trial on the merits. Petitioner's
verified motion also alleged that the Government's charges against him in the New
Jersey court were untrue and he strongly
asserted his loyalty to the United States.
District judge dismissed the petitioner's motion holding that petitioner had been
guilty of laches in not arranging while
in prison for defense of the cancellation
of citizenship charge.

Thus, this petitioner has now been held continuously
in prison by the Government for six and one-half years.
During that period he served one and one-half years of
a penitentiary punishment under a conviction which this
Court held was improper. He was also held in the District of Columbia jail two years and ten months under
an indictment that was later dismissed. It is clear therefore, that for four and one-half years this petitioner was
held in prison on charges that the Government was unable
to sustain. No other conclusion can be drawn except that

608

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

BLACK,

J.

335 U. S.

this long imprisonment was wrongful. Whether the
judgment by default should be set aside must therefore
be decided on the undenied allegations that the Government, largely through the action of FBI agents, wrongfully held petitioner in New York, Michigan, and District
of Columbia prisons, while the same Government, largely
acting through the same or other FBI agents, caused
a district court to revoke petitioner's citizenship on the
ground that petitioner had failed to make appearance
and defend in the New Jersey courts, although petitioner
was at the time without funds to hire a lawyer.
First. Amended Rule 60 (b) of the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure became effective March 19, 1948.' That
Amended Rule 60 (b) provides:
"On motion and upon such terms as are just, the court may relieve
a party or his legal representative from a final judgment, order, or
proceeding for the following reasons: (1) mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; (2) newly discovered evidence which by
due diligence could not have been discovered in time to move for a
new trial under Rule 59 (b); (3) fraud (whether heretofore denominated intrinsic or extrinsic), misrepresentation, or other misconduct
of an adverse party; (4) the judgment is void; (5) the judgment
has been satisfied, released, or discharged, or a prior judgment upon
which it is based has been reversed or otherwise vacated, or it is no
longer ,equitable'that the judgment should have prospective application; or (6) any other reason justifying relief frcm the operation
of the judgment. The. motion shall be made within a reasonable
time, and for reasons (1), (2), and (3) not more than onp year
after the judgment, order, or proceeding was entered or taken. A
motioh under this subdivision (b) does not affect the finality of a
judgment 'or suspend its operation. This rule does not limit the
power of a court to entertain an independent action to relieve a party
from a judgment, order, or proceeding, or to grant relief to a defendant not actually personally notified as provided in Section 57 of the
Judicial Code, U. S. C., Title 28, § 118,. or to set aside a judgment
for fraud upon the court. Writs of coram nbbis, coram vobis, audita
querela, and bills of review and bills in the nature of a bill of review,
are abolished, and the procedure for obtaining any relief from a
judgment shall be by motion as prescribed in these rules or by an
independent action."
I

KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
601

Opinion of

BLACK, J.

was after the District Court denied the motion to set
aside this default judgment and after affirmance of the
District Court's action by the Court of Appeals. For
these reasons the Government contends that amended
Rule 60 (b) should not be applied here. In some respects, the amended rule grants courts a broader power
to set aside judgments than did the old rule. Petitioner
should be afforded the benefit of the more liberal
amended 60 (b). For Rule 86 (b) made amended 60
(b) applicable to "further proceedings in actions then
pending" unless it "would work injustice" so to apply
the rule. It seems inconceivable that one could think it
would work any injustice to the Government to measure
the petitioner's rights by this amended rule in this case
where all he asks is a chance to try the denaturalization
proceeding on its merits. Amended Rule 60 (b) should
be applied.
Second. Amended Rule 60 (b) authorizes a court to
set aside "a void judgment" without regard to the limitation of a year applicable to motions to set aside on some
other grounds. It is contended that this judgment is.
void because rendered by a District Court without hearing any evidence. The judgment is void if the hearing
of evidence is a legal prerequisite t.o rendition of a
valid default judgment in denaturalization proceedings.
While 8 U. S. C. § 738, under which this denaturalization
complaint was filed, plainly authorizes courts to revoke
the citizenship of naturalized citizens after notice and
hearing, it contains no explicit authorization for rendition
of default judgments. Congressional intention to' authorize court action in the absence of a citizen might be
implied, however, from the provision for notice by publication in § 738 (b). Aside from possible constitutional
questions, it may therefore be assumed that the section
authorizes rendition of a denaturalization judgment in
a defendant's absence. But it does not necessarily fol-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

BLACK, J.

335 U. S.

low that a court may also render judgment without proof
of the charges made in a denaturalization complaint.
And there is strong indication in § 738 and companion
sections that Congress did not intend to authorize courts
automatically to deprive people of their citizenship for
failure to appear.
U. S. C. § 746 makes it a felony for applicants for
naturalization or others to violate federal laws relating
to naturalization. Had petitioner been found guilty of
making the false oath here charged, he could have been
convicted of and punished for a felony under this section. But he could have been convicted only after indictment and a jury trial at which he would have been
present and represented by counsel. A conviction would
have required a proof of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt,
on testimony of witnesses given in the presence of the
accused who would have had an opportunity to crossexamine the witnesses against him. In the event of such a
conviction under required procedural safeguards, § 738 (e)
authorizes courts to revoke citizenship and cancel natu-ralization certificates.
There is a broad gap between a
§ 738 denaturalization thus accomplished and the one
ordered by the court in this proceeding. For here, the
defendant was absent, no counsel or other representative
of his was present, no evidence was offered, and the only
basis for action was a complaint containing allegations,
-questionable from a procedural and substantive standpoint, verified by an FBI agent on information acquired
by him from looking at hearsay statements in an FBI
dossier. The protection Congress afforded in § 738 (e)
emphasizes the unfairness that would result from permitting denaturalizations in other § 738 proceedings without any evidence at all.
When we look to federal statutes other than § 738 we
find iio command and no express authority for courts to

KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
601

Opinion of

BLACK,

J.

enter denaturalization judgments by default without
proof of facts to support the judgment. No such authority or command is contained in Rule 55 of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure which rule relates to default
judgments. Rule 55 (e) expressly bars all judgment,
against the United States without proof, but it cannot
be inferred from this that proof is never required, as a
prerequisite to default judgments against all defendant,
other than the United States. For Rule 55 (b) (2) expressly provides for representation of defaulting partie,
in some instances. Rule 55 (b) (2) also directs that ir
certain specified instances courts, before entering judg.
ments after default of appearance, shall make investigations, conduct hearings, -and even grant jury trials. Ir
addition to these particularized instances, Rule 55 (b) (2'
also provides for court hearings before default judgmen,
where "it is necessary . . . to establish the truth of an3
averment by evidence or to make an investigation o:
any other matter."
Thus it appears that statutes and rules have largel3
left for judicial determination the type of cases in whict
hearings and proof should precede default judgments
In this situation it is the final responsibility of this Cour,
to formulate the controlling rules for hearings and proof
See McNabb v. United States, 318 U. S.332, 341. Foi
the followi'g reasons it seems peculiarly appropriate thaa person's citizenship should be revoked only after evi.
dence has established that the person has been guilt3
of proffibited'conduct justifying revocation.
Denaturalization consequences may be more grave thai
consequences that flow from conviction for crimes. Per
sons charged with crime in United States courts canno
be convicted on default judgments unsupported by prool
Even decrees of divorce or default judgments for mone:
damages where there is any uncertainty as to the amoun

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

BLACK,

1.

335 U. S.

must ordinarily be supported by actual proof. The reasons for requirement of proof in cases involving money
apply with much greater force to cases which involve
forfeiture of citizenship and subsequent deportation.
This Court has long recognized the plain fact that to
deprive a person of his American citizenship is an extraordinarily severe penalty. The consequences of such a
deprivation may even rest heavily upon his children.
8 U. S. C. § 719. As a result of the denaturalization
here, petitioner has been ordered deported. "To deport
one who so claims to be a citizen, obviously deprives
him of liberty . . . . It may result also in loss of both
property and life; or of all that makes life worth living."
Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276, 284. Because
denaturalization proceedings have not fallen within the
technical classification of crimes is hardly a satisfactory
reason for allowing denaturalization without proof while
requiring proof to support a mere money fine or a short
imprisonment.
Furthermore, because of the grave consequences incident to denaturalization proceedings we have held that
a burden rests on the Government to prove its charges in
such cases by clear, unequivocal and convincing evidence
which. does not leave the issue in doubt. Schneiderman
v. United States, 320 U. S. 118, 158. This burden is
substantially identical with that required in criminal
cases-proof beyond a reasonable doubt. The same
factors that caused us to require proof of this nature
as a prerequisite to denaturalization judgments in hearings with the defendant present, apply at least with equal
force to proceedings in which a citizen is stripped of his
citizenship rights inhis absence. Assuming that no additional procedural safeguards are required, it is our
opinion that courts should not in § 738 proceedings deprive a person of his citizenship until the Government
first offers proof of its charges sufficient to satisfy the

KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of

601

BLACK,

J.

burden imposed on it, even in cases where the defendant
has *made default in appearance.
Third. But even if this judgment of denaturalization
is not treated as void, there remain other compelling reasons under amended 60 (b) for relieving the petitioner of
its effect. Amended 60 (b) provides for setting aside a
judgment for any one of five specified reasons or for
"any other reason justifying relief from the operation of
the judgment." The first of the five specified reasons
is "mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect."
To take advantage of this reason the Rule requires a
litigant to ask relief "not more than one year after the
judgment, order, or proceeding was entered or taken." It
is contended that the one-year limitation bars petitioner
on the premise that the petition to set aside the judgment
showed, at most, nothing but "excusable neglect." And
of course, the one-year limitation would control if no more
than "neglect" was disclosed by the petition. In that
event the petitioner could not avail himself of the broad
"any other reason" clause of 60 (b). But petitioner's
allegations set up an extraordinary situation which cannot fairly or logically be classified as mere "neglect" on his
part. The undenied facts set out in the petition reveal
far more than a failure to defend the denaturalization
charges due to inadvertence, indifference, or careless disregard of consequences. For before, at the time, and
after the default judgment was entered, petitioner was
held in jail in New York. Michigan, and the District of
Columbia by the United States, his adversary in the
denaturalization proceedings. Without funds to hire a.
lawyer, petitioner was defended by appointed counsel in
the criminal cases. Thus petitioner's prayer to set aside
the default judgment did not rest on mere allegations of
"excusable neglect." The foregoing allegations and others in the petition tend to support petitioner's argument
that he was deprived of any reasonable opportunity to
798176 o-49--44

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

BLACK, J.

335 U. S.

make a defense to the criminal charges instigated by officers of the very United States agency which supplied
the secondhand information upon which his citizenship
was taken away from him in his absence. The basis of
his petition Was not that he had neglected to act in his
own defense, but that in jail as he was, weakened from
illness, without a lawyer in the denaturalization proceedings or funds to hire one, disturbed and fully occupied
in efforts to protect himself against the gravest criminal
charges, he was no more able to defend himself in the New
Jersey court than he would have been had he never
received notice of the charges. Under such circumstances
petitioner's prayer for setting aside the default judgment
should not be considered only under the excusable neglect,
but also under the "other reason" clause of 60 (b), to
which the one-year limitation provision does not apply.
Fourth. Thus we come to the question whether petitioner's undenied allegations show facts "justifying relief
from the operation of the judgment." It is contended
that the "other reason" clause should be interpreted so as
to deny relief except under circumstances sufficient to
have authorized relief under the common law wtits of
coram.nobis and audita querela, and that the facts shown
here would not have justified relief under these common
law proceedings. One thing wrong with this contention
is that few courts ever have agreed as to what circumstances would justify relief under these old remedies. To
accept this contention would therefore introduce needless confusion in the administration of 60 (b) and would
also circumscribe it within needless and uncertain boundaries. Furthermore 60 (b) strongly indicates on its face
that courts no longer are to be hemmed in by the uncertain boundaries of these and other common law remedial
tools. In simple English, the language of the "other
reason" clause, for all reasons except the five particularly

KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of

601

BLACK,

J.

specified, vests power in courts adequate to enable them
to vacate judgments whenever such action is appropriate
to accomplish justice.
Fifth. The undenied allegations already set out show
that a citizen was stripped of his citizenship by his Government, without evidence, a hearing, or the benefit of
counsel, at a time when his Government was then holding
the citizen in jail with no reasonable opportunity for him
effectively to defend his right to citizenship. Furthermore, the complaint in the denaturalization proceeding
strongly indicates that the Government here is proceeding

on inadequate facts, just as it did in the criminal cases
it brought against petitioner. For if the Government had
been able on a trial to prove no more than the particular
facts it alleged in its denaturalization complaint, it is
doubtful if its proof could have been held sufficient to
revoke petitioner's citizenship nilder our holdings in
Baumgartnerv. United States, 322 U. S. 665, Schneiderman v. United States, 320 U. S. 118, Knauer v. United
States, 328 U. S. 654, 659, and see Rule 9 (b) of the
Rules of Civil Procedure. And all petitioner has asked
is that the default judgment be set aside so that for the
first time he may defend on the merits. Certainly the
undenied facts alleged justify setting aside the default
judgment for that purpose. Petitioner is entitled to a
fair trial. He has not had it. The Government makes
no claim that he has. Fair hearings are in accord with
elemental concepts of justice, and the language of the
"other reason" clause of 60 (b) is broad enough to authorize the Court to set aside the default judgment and grant
petitioner a fair hearing.
MR.' JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JUS-

MR.. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE and MR. JUSTICE
BURTON agree that the District Court erred in dismissing
the petition to set aside the default judgment, and that

TICE MURPHY,

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring. •

335 U. S.

the Court of Appeals erred in affirming the District Court
judgment. The judgmeuts accordingly are reversed and
the cause is remanded to the District Court with instructions to set aside the judgment by default and grant the
petitioner a hearing on the merits of the issues raised by
the denaturalization complaint.*
It is so ordered.
while agreeing with MR. JUSTICE
that a judgment of denaturalization may be entered
by default without a further showing than was made in
this case, believes that, under the special circumstances
here shown on behalf of this petitioner, the judgment by
default should be set aside and the petitioner should be
granted a hearing on the merits of the issues raised by
the denaturalization complaint. He therefore joins in
the judgment of the Court as limited to the special facts
of this case and without expressing an opinion upon any
issues not now before this Court.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON,

REED

with whom MR.
agrees, concurring in the result.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,
PHY

JUSTICE MUR-

To treat a denaturalization proceeding, whether procedurally or otherwise, as if it were nothing more than
a suit for damages for breach of contract or one to recover
overtime pay ignores, in my view, every consideration
of justice and of. reality concerning the substance of the
suit and what is at stake.
To take away a man's citizenship deprives him of a
right no less precious than life or liberty, indeed of one
which today comprehends those rights and almost all
others.' To lay upon the citizen the punishment of exile
*[This judgment modified, 336 U. S. 942.]
'Cf. Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276, 284; Schneiderman v.
United States, 320 U. S. 118, 122, and concurring opinion 165;
Knauer v. United States, 328 U. S. 654, dissenting opinion 675.

KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
601

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

for committing murder, or even treason, is a penalty thus
far unknown to our law and at most but doubtfully
within Congress' power. U. S. Const., Amend. VIII.
Yet by the device or label of a civil suit, carried forward
with none of the safeguards of criminal procedure provided by the Bill of Rights, this most comprehensive and
basic right of all, so it has been held, can be taken away
and in its wake may follow the most cruel penalty of
banishment.
No such procedures could strip a natural-born citizen
of his birthright or lay him open to such a penalty. I
have stated heretofore the reasons why I think the Constitution does not countenance either that deprivation or
the ensuing liability to such a punishment for naturalized
citizens. Schneiderman v. United States, 320 U. S. 118,
concurring opinion 165; Knauer v. United States, 328
U. S. 654, dissenting opinion 675.
Those views of the substantive rights of naturalized
citizens have not prevailed here. But the Schneiderman
decision and Baumgartner v. United States, 322 U. S.
665, required a burden of proof for denaturalization which
in effect approximates the burden demanded for conviction in criminal cases, namely, proof beyond a reasonable
doubt of the charges alleged as cause for denaturalization. This was in itself and to that extent recognition
that ordinary civil procedures, such as apply in suits upon
contracts and to enforce other purely civil liabilities, do
not suffice for denaturalization and all its consequences.
Schneiderman v. United States, 320 U. S. 118, 125, 136, 153,
154, 158, 159. At page 158 we said: "We conclude that the Government has not carried its burden of proving by 'clear, unequivocal,
and convincing' evidence which does not leave 'the. issue in doubt,'
that petitioner obtained his citizenship illegally." The concurring
opinion in Knauer v. United States, 328 U. S. 654, 674, went upon
2 See

the basis of satisfaction "beyond all reasonable doubt" concerning
the proof of the grounds asserted for denaturalization.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
RUTLEDGE,

1., concurring.

335 U. S.

More than this it was not necessary to decide in the cases
cited. No less should be required, in view of the substantial kinship of the proceedings with criminal causes,
whatever their technical form or label. Cf. Knauer v.
United States, 328 U. S. 654, dissenting opinion 675, 678.
This case, however, presents squarely the issue whether,
beyond any question of burden or weight of proof, the
ordinary civil procedures can suffice to take away the
naturalized citizen's status and lay him open to permanent exile with all the fateful consequences following for
himself and his family, often as in this case native-born
Americans. The question in its narrower aspect is indeed whether those consequences can be inflicted without
any proof whatever.
Under our system petitioner could not be convicted or
fined for mail fraud, overceiling sales, or unlawfully possessing gasoline ration coupons upon a judgment taken
by default, much less under the circumstances this record
discloses to have been responsible for the default. Yet
his basic right to all the protections afforded him as a
citizen by the Constitution can be stripped from him,
so it is now urged, without an iota of proof, without his
appearance or presence in court, without counsel employed or assigned to defend that right, and indeed with
no real opportunity on his part to prepare and make such
a defense. The case thus goes far beyond the Court's
ruling in Knauer v. United States, supra. And, in my
opinion, it brings to clearer focus whether, beyond the
matter of satisfying the burden of proof required by the
Schneiderman and Baumgartner cases, the Knauer case
rightly permitted denaturalization through 'the civil procedu?es there pursued.
3 In the view of those dissenting, as well as that of the majority
in the Knauer case, the Government had satisfied fully the burden
of proof required by the Schneiderman and Baumgartner decisions.
See 328 U. S. 654, 675.

KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
601

RUTLEDGE, J.,

concurring.

If, in deference to the Court's rulings, we are to continue
to have two classes of citizens in this country, one secure
in their status and the other subject at every moment
to its loss by proceedings not applicable to the other class,
cf. Schneidermanv. United States, supra, concurring opinion at 167; Knauer v. United States, supra, dissenting
opinion at 678, I cannot assent to the. idea that the ordinary rules of procedure in civil causes afford any standard
sufficient to safeguard the status given to naturalized
citizens. If citizenship is to be defeasible for naturalized
citizens, other than by voluntary renunciation or other
causes applicable to native-born citizens,4 the defeasance
it seems to me should be surrounded by no lesser protections than those securing all citizens against conviction
for crime. Regardless of the name given it, the denaturalization proceeding when it is successful has all the
consequences and effects of a penal or criminal conviction,except that-the ensuing liability to deportation is a greater
penalty than is generally inflicted for crime.
Regarding the proceeding in this light, I do not assent
in principle that the judgment of denaturalization can be
taken by default or that the rules of civil procedure
applicable in ordinary civil causes apply to permit such

a result.
The grounds which I have stated for these conclusions
logically would lead to casting. my vote to reverse the
judgment with instructions to dismiss the proceedings.
Since, however, that disposition does not receive the
concurrence of a majority, I join with those who, on other
grounds, think that the judgment should be reversed and
remanded for a new trial, in voting so to dispose of the
cause. Accordingly I concur in the Court's judgment.
I may add that, upon the assumption that rules of civil
4See Knauer v. United States, 328 U. S. 654, dissenting opinion
675, 676.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

procedure may apply in denaturalization proceedings, I
am substantially in accord with the views expressed by
MR.JUSTICE BLACK.

MR. JUSTICE REED, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE
and MR.JUSTICE JACKSON join, dissenting.
In May, 1942, the United States began proceedings
in the United States District Court for the District of
New Jersey, against Klapprott under § 338 of the Nationality Act of 1940, 54 Stat. 1137, 1158, 8 U. S. C. § 738,'
to cancel his certificate of naturalization, issued in 1933,
on the ground that he had taken a false oath of allegiance
to procure the certificate. The complaint alleged that
at the time he took the oath petitioner knew that he was
not attached to the principles of the Constitution of the
United States and did not intend to renounce his alle-

giance to the German Reich; that petitioner "is and has
been notoriously and openly one of the chief leaders
and active members of the German-American Bund" and
other organizations sympathetic to the German Reich;

I"(a) It shall be the duty of the United States district attorneys
for the respective districts, upon affidavit showing good cause therefor,
to institute proceedings in any court specified in subsection (a) of
section 701 of this title in the judicial district in which the naturalized
citizen may reside at the time of bringing suit, for the purpose of
revoking and setting aside the order admitting such p'erson to citizenship and canceling the certificate of naturalization on the ground of
fraud or on the ground that such order and certificate of naturalization were illegally procured.
"(b) The party to whom was granted the naturalization alleged to
have been fraudulently or illegally procured shall, in any such proceedings under subsection (a) of this section, have sixty days' personal notice in which to make answer to the petition of the United
States; and if such naturalized person be absent from the United
States or from the judicial district in which such person last had his
residence, such notice shall be given by publication in the manner
provided for the service of summons by publication or upon absentees
by the laws of the State or the place where such suit is brought."

KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
601

REED,

J., dissenting.

and that he had made "numerous statements indicating
his allegiance and loyalty to the German Reich and his
disregard and disrespect for the principles and institutions
of the United States of America."
Petitioner was personally served with summons on May
15, 1942. Without the introduction of any evidence,
judgment by default was entered against him on July
17, 1942, when he failed to answer within the sixty days
allowed by § 338, supra, note 1.
In January, 1947, four and one-half years later, Klapprott petitioned the same district court which had entered
the judgment of denaturalization for an order to show
cause why that judgment should not be vacated. In an
affidavit appended to his petition, he stated, after admitting receipt of the summons and complaint, that it was
impossible for him to enter a defense and intimated
that he was unable to take steps to have the judgment
vacated prior to 1947. There is no allegation that he
was ignorant of the entry of the judgment for any period
of time. See Rules 5 (a) and 77 (d) of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure. The reasons contained in the affidavit in support of this general statement can be summarized as follows: Petitioner, as a result of serious illness, was in poor health and "unable to get around very
well" at the time summons was served. Since he had no
money with which to retain a lawyer, he drafted a letter to
the American Ci ,il Liberties Union of New York requesting legal assistance. On July 7, 1942, seven days before
time for filing appearance expired, he was arrested by
federal authorities on an indictment in the United States
District Court for *the Southern District of New York,
charging him with a conspiracy to violate the Selective
Service Act. The letter was taken by these authorities,
and, so far as Klapprott knew, never mailed. The court
appointed a lawyer to defend petitioner in the New York
conspiracy case. Petitioner informed him of the denatu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

ralization proceeding, to which the lawyer promised to
attend, but which he neglected, allowing judgment to be
entered by default. Because of the lengthy trial and
exceedingly high bail in connection with the conspiracy
charge, petitioner was still unable to take steps to have
the judgment vacated. He was found guilty of the
conspiracy ' and committed to the Federal Correctional
Institution at Milan, Michigan. On January 30, 144,
pursuant to another indictment-the "Sedition Case"
in the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia-he was transferred to the District of Columbia. He remained in custody throughout the trial of this
case until November 21, 1946, when the indictment was
dismissed. Petitioner was then released but was immediately remanded to custody at Ellis Island for the purpose of deportation. From there he began this attempt
to have the judgment of denaturalization vacated.
Petitioner in his affidavit denied the allegations in the
government's original complaint and asserted that he had
a good and legal defense to the action for cancellation
of his certificate of naturalization.
If petitioner is entitled to relief from the default judgment, he must qualify under one or more of the provisions of Rule 60 (b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.4 I do not think that his petition or the affidavit
2

Conviction subsequently reversed in Keegan v. United States, 325

U. S. 478.
: United States v. Mc Williams, 82 U. S. App. D. C. 259, 163 F. 2d
695.
4 Pule 60 (b):
"On motion and upon such terms as are just, the court may relieve
a party or his legalr representative from a final judgment, order, or
proceeding for the following reasons: (1) mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; (2) newly discovered evidence which by
due diligence could not have been discovered in time to move for a
new trial under Rule 59 (b) ; (3) fraud (whether heretofore denominated intrinsic or extrinsic), misrepresentation, or othler misconduct

KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
601

REED,

J., dissenting.

in support thereof meets the requirements of that Rule
for vacating a judgment.
First. The Court assumes, as I think it must, that
§ 338 of the Nationality Act authorizes default judgments
of denaturalization. So much is clear from the provisions
in (b) of that section for notice by publication and in
(c) for the denaturalization of one who has left the United
States to establish a permanent residence elsewhere.. The
action authorized by the section is civil.' The general
rule- in civil actions is that notice places on the party to
whom it is directed the responsibility to appear and defend or face the consequences. Rule 55 of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure provides for default judgments
of an adverse party; (4) the judgment is -void; (5) the judgment
has been satisfied, released, or discharged, or a prior judgment upon
which it is based has been reversed or otherwise vacated, or it is no
longer equitable that the judgment -hould have prospective application; or (6) any other reason justifying relief from the operation
of the judgment. The motion shall be made within a reasonable
time, and for reasons (1), (2), and (3) not more than one year
after the judgment, order, or proceeding was entered or taken. A
motion under this subdivision (b) does not affect the finality of a
judgment or suspend its operation. This rule does not limit the
power of a court to entertain an independent action to relieve a party
from a judgment, order, or proceeding, or to grant relief to a defendant not actually personally notified as provided in Section 57 of the
Judicial Code, U. S. C., Title 28, § 118, or to set aside a judgment
for fraud upon the court. Writs of coram nobis, coram vobis, audita
querela, and-bills of review and bills in the nature of a bill of review,
are abolished, and the procedure for obtaining any relief from a
judgment shall be by motion as prescribed in these rules or by an
independent action."
5
A subsequent section, 54 Stat. 1163, 8 U. S. C. §746 (a) (1)
and (d), specifically providing for the criminal penalties of fine
and imprisonment for the utterance of a false oath such as this, indicates an intention that proceedings under § 338 are not criminal.
Cf. Knauer v. 'United States, 328 U. S.654, 671; Luria v. United
States, 231 U. S. 9, 27-28; Sourino v. United States, 86 F. 2d 309;
United States V. Wezel, 49 F. Supp. 16, 17.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED, J., dissenting.

335 U. S.
4.

in civil actions where the party against whom relief is
sought fails to plead. The instances enumerated in (b)
(2) and (e) of that rule, as those where a default judgment shall not be entered, do not include this case.
The Court suggests under caption Second, however,
that the presentation of evidence is a prerequisite to the
entry of such a judgment, and that a default judgment
entered without evidence is void and therefore subject
to vacation without a definite time limit under (4) of
Rule 60 (b). It points out that Schneiderman v. United
States, 320 U. S. 118, held that "clear and convincing"
evidence is necessary to support a judgment of denaturalization. The holding in that case, however, must be
viewed in its setting, i. e., a contested case. The case does
not support the proposition that any evidence, clear and
convincing or otherwise, is required in an uncontested
denaturalization proceeding. The general rule in civil
actions is that none is necessary. Even though deportation is a most serious disaster to the deportee, it is founded
here on uncontested allegations of adequate facts that
must be taken as true. Although the committee which
formulated the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure twice
made a hearing on evidence a requirement for the entry of
a default judgment, Rule 55 (b) (2) and (e), no such
requirement was expressed for cases of this sort. Except
for cases of the sort specified in (b) (2) and (e), and
those where the amount of damages is in question, I
think the meaning of the Rule is that a default is the
equivalent of an admission of allegations which are well
pleaded.
The Court seeks support in the fact that other sections
of the Nationality Act, 8 U. S. C. §§ 738 (e) and 746,
provide for denaturalization when the alien has been
convicted of the crime of procuring his certificate of
naturalization by knowingly false statements under oath.
The protections which safeguard the alien in such a

KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
601

REED,

J., dissenting.

criminal prosecution are sought to be extended to him
in civil proceedings under § 738. To me the very existence in the Act of two parallel methods of denaturalization indicate that the protections inherent in the criminal
proceeding are not intended to apply to the civil proceeding such as we have here.
Since no expression of Congress can be found, either
in the Federal Rules or in. the Nationality Act, to the
effect that evidence is necessary to validate a civil default
judgment of denaturalization, I do not think it is the
function of this Court to supply one.
The suggestion of the Court in caption Fifth that the
government's complaint does not state a cause of action,
seems unwarranted. Certainly the government is not
required to plead all its evidence. Since the complaint
alleged fraud and specified in paragraph 6 thereof the
circumstances constituting fraud, set out in the first
paragraph of this dissent, I think Knauer v. United
States, 328 U. S. 654, belies the suggestion that the complaint is defective.
Thus I dissent from the suggestion that the judgment
against Klapprott can be vacated as void under Rule
60 (b) (4).
Second. The Court holds that petitioner is entitled to
relief under (6), the "other reason" clause of Rule 60 (b).
This follows, it is said, from his allegations that he was
held in custody hnd subjected to several criminal prosecutions by the United States. As I see it, such allegations add nothing to the single ground on which relief
could have been based, i. e., "mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect." Rule 60 (b) (1). I do not
mean to say that an arrest and a subsequent period of
imprisonment which interfered to the extent of depriving
him of the opportunity to get legal assistance or the
ability to litigate would not entitle him to relief. In
view of the facts set out in petitioner's own affidavit,

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
REED,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S:

however, it is difficult to see how imprisonment subjected
him to any injustice in this case or how it furnishes him
with an additional ground for relief. Thus petitioner
does not allege that he requested the return to him or the
mailing of his letter to the American Civil Liberties
Union. He does not, in fact could not, claim that imprisonment deprived him of the right to counsel. On the
contrary he admits that counsel was made available in
time to enter an appearance in the denaturalization proceeding, but that counsel negligently failed to do so.
Petitioner's ability to litigate during this period of purportedly drastic confinement is illustrated by the fact
that in 1945, as stated in his affidavit, he began and
continued until its unsuccessful termination a suit to
enjoin the Department of Justice from deporting him.
Since the facts alleged amount to a showing of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect only, and since a definite time limit of one year is imposed on relief based
on these grounds, the Rule cannot be said to contemplate
a remedy without time limit based on the same facts.
Otherwise the word "other" in clause (6) is rendered
meaningless.'
The Court intimates that petitioner was woefully mistreated by the government. If by this it is meant that
he is entitled to relief from judgment based on "misconduct of an adverse party," Rule 60 (b) (3), the answer
is that relief on this ground is limited to one year from
the judgment. On analysis, however, the suggestion that
petitioner's trials have been carried on in a way contrary
to concepts of justice as understood in the United States
and in a manner incompatible with the pattern of American justice falls flat in view of the simple facts. Klapprott had counsel and open hearings. The courts have
cleared him of complicity in a conspiracy to impede the
6

Cf. Wallace v. United States, 142 F. 2d 240,244.

KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
601

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

raising of an army and have dismissed a prosecution for
seditious conspiracy. To be cleared on these charges can
have no effect upon the propriety of his deportation for
violation of our naturalization laws.
The limitations imposed by Rule 60 (b) are expressions
of the policy of finally concluding litigation within a reasonable time. Such termination of lawsuits is essential
to the efficient administration of justice. I would not
frustrate the policy by allowing litigants to upset judgments of long standing on allegations such as Klapprott's.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting.

American citizenship other than when acquired by birth
rests on a judicial judgment of naturalization. Tutun v.
United States, .270 U. S. 568. Congress has explicitly
defined the procedures for- annulling such a judgment.
Johannessen v. United States, 225 U. S. 227; Luria v.
United States, 231 U. S. 9; § 15 of the Act of June 29,
1906, 34 Stat. 596, 601, now formulated in 54 Stat. 1158,
8 U. S. C. § 738. Neither in its terms nor on a fair interpretation of our naturalization laws has Congress indicated that such a judgment-the certificate of naturalization-cannot be annulled by default, that is, without
active contest against such annulment, provided that
ample opportunity has in fact been afforded to a citizen
to contest. This. Court is not justified in adding a requirement to the cancellation proceedings that Congress
has seen fit to withhold unless some provision of the Constitution so demands. The only possible provision on
• which an argument can be based that citizenship cannot
be canceled by a default judgment is the Due Process
Clause of the Fifth Amendment. I reject the suggestion
that it offends due process for a judgment of naturalization obtained by fraud to be set aside if the defrauding
alien is afforded ample opportunity to contest the Gov-

OCTOBER TERM,. 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

ernment's claim that he obtained his citizenship through
fraud and chooses not to avail himself of that opportunity but allows a judgment of cancellation to go by
default.
But in rejecting the contention that citizenship cannot
be lost by a default judgment, one does not necessarily
embrace the other extreme of assimilating a naturalization judgment to any other civil judgment. This
Court has held that because a naturalization judgment
involves interests of a different order from those involved in other civil proceedings, the annulment of such
a judgment is guided by considerations qualitatively different from those that govern annulment of ordinary
judgments. Schneiderman v. United States, 320 U. S.
118; Baumgartner v. United States, 322 U. S. 665. The
considerations that set a contested proceeding for cancelling a naturalization judgment apart from other suits to
annul a judgment, are equally relevant to a default judgment causing such cancellation. To be sure, the public
interest in putting a fair end to litigation and in not allowing people to sleep on their rights has its rightful claim
even in proceedings resulting in deprivation of citizenship.
But because citizenship has such ramifying significance in
the fate of an individual and of those dependent upon
him, the public interest to be safeguarded in the administration of justice will not be neglected if courts look
more sharply and deal less summarily when asked to set
aside a default judgment for cancellation of citizenship
than is required of them in setting aside other default
judgments.
It is in the light of these general considerations that
I would dispose of the present case. I deem it governed
by the liberalizing amendment to Rule 60 (b) of the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure even though that became effective after the decision below. It is of course
not a hard and fast rule that procedural changes are

KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
601

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

to be prospectively applied to a pending litigation at
any stage at which it may be possible to do so without
working an injustice. But since citizenship is at stake
and this is in effect an appeal in equity to be dealt with
as of the time of adjudication, it seems more consonant
with equitable considerations to judge the case on the

basis of the Rule now in force, even though the lower
court did not have the opportunity to apply it.
If the petitioner had paid no attention to the proceeding brought to revoke his citizenship, he would, in
my opinion, have no ground for opening up the default
judgment simply because during all the years in question
he was incarcerated. Men can press their claims from
behind prison walls, as is proved by the fact that perhaps
a third of the cases for which review is sought in this
Court come from penitentiaries. But Klapprott was not
indifferent to the proceeding to set aside his citizenship.
He took active measures of defense which were aborted
through no fault of his own. To be sure, he did not
follow up these efforts, but what he is saying in the motion
made after his criminal cases were ended is in substance
that he was so preoccupied with defending himself against
the dire charges of sedition (the conviction for which
this Court set aside in Keegan v. United States, 325
U. S. 478) and the threat of deportation, that the New
Jersey cancellation proceeding naturally dropped from
his mind after he had taken what he thought appropriate
steps for his protection. The Government in effect demurred to this contention and the District Court's actionaffirmed by the Court of Appeals, practically ruled as a
matter of law that the claim of Klapprott, even if true,
affords no relief. It is to me significant that one .of the
two affirming judges of the Court of Appeals decided the
case largely on a close reading of the old Rule 60 (b) and
that the other rested his case on laches, while this Court
fails to draw on laches for the support of its conclusion.
798176 0-49-----45

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

Rule 60 (b) now provides five grounds for relief from
default judgments'and a sixth catch-all ground, "any
other reason justifying relief from the operation of the
judgment."' The only one of the first five reasons to
which Klapprott's conduct, as explicitly narrated, may
plausibly be assigned is that of "excusable neglect," relief
from which must be obtained within a year after a default
judgment. But I think that if the inferences fairly to be
drawn from the circumstances narrated by Klapprott were
found to be true, they would take his case outside of the
characterization of '"neglect," because "neglect" in the
context of its subject matter carries the idea of negligence

and not merely of non-action, and would constitute a different reason "justifying relief from the operation of the
judgment." When a claim for citizenship is at stake, we
ought to read a complaint with a liberality that is the
antithesis of Baron Parke's "almost superstitious reverence for the dark technicalities of special pleading."
1

"RULE

60.

RELIEF FROM JUDGMENT OR ORDER.

"(b) MISTAKES; INADVERTENCE; EXCUSABLE NEGLECT; NEWLY
On motion and upon such terms
as are just, the court may relieve a party or his legal representative
from a final judgment, order, or proceeding for the following reasons:
(1) mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; (2) newly
discovered evidence which by due diligence could not have been
discovered in time to move for a new trial under Rule 59 (b);
(3) fraud (whether heretofore denominated intrinsic or extrinsic),
misrepresentation, or other misconduct of an adverse party; (4) the
judgment is void; (5) the judgment has been satisfied, released, or
discharged, or a prior judgment upon which it is based has been
reversed or otherwise vacated, or it is no longer equitable that the
judgment should have prospective application; or (6) any other reason justifying relief from the operation of the judgment. The motion shall be made within a reasonable time, and for reasons (1), (2),
and (3) not more than one year after the judgment, order, or proDISCOVERED EVIDENCE; FRAUD, ETC.

ceeding was entered or taken ...

"

KLAPPROTT v. UNITED STATES.
601

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

See 15 Dict. Nat. Biog. 226. Therefore, what fairly
emanates from such a complaint should be treated as
though formally alleged. And so I would not deny
Klapprott an opportunity, even at this late stage, to
establish as a psychological fact what his allegations
imply, namely that the harassing criminal proceedings
against him had so preoccupied his mind that he was
not guilty of negligence in failing to do more than he
initially did in seeking to defend the denaturalization
proceeding. But I would not regard such a psychological
issue established as a fact merely because the Government
in effect demurred to his complaint. Since the nature of
the ultimate issue-forfeiture of citizenship-is not to
be governed by the ordinary rules pf default judgments,
neither should the claim of a state of mind be taken as
proved simply because the Government, feeling itself
justified in resting on a purely legal defense, did not deny
the existence of that state of mind.
To rule out the opportunity to establish the psychological implications of the complaint would be to make
its denial a rule of law. It would not take much of the
trial court's time to allow Klapprott to establish them if he
can. The time would be well spent even if he should fail
to do so; it would be more consonant with the safeguards
which this Court has properly thrown around the withdrawal of citizenslip than is the summary disposition
that was made. But I would require Klapprott to satisfy
the trial judge that what he impliedly alleges is true, and
it is here that I part company with the majority.

