UNITED STATES v. HOFFMAN.
Syllabus.

Although I seriously question whether the sum of the
statute, as construed by the Court, the pertinent regulations, and their execution in this case does not go beyond
constitutional limitations in the breadth of their inquiry,
I express no conclusive opinion concerning this, since for
me the statutory immunity applies and is sufficient to
require reversal of petitioner's conviction.

UNITED STATES v. HOFFMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 97.

Argued October 23, 1947.-Decided June 21, 1948.

After appellee had produced in an administrative proceeding records
kept under a requirement of the Price Administrator's regulations,
the Price Administrator petitioned the district court to institute
criminal conter.,pt proceedings against him for violating an injunction against -selling used cars at overnceiling prices. The court
appointed the United States Attorney and the 0. P. A. District
Enforcement Attorney as "attorneys to prosecute the criminal
charges . . . on behalf of the Court and of the United States."
Appellee's motion to dismiss was granted on the ground that he
was entitled under § 202 (g) of the Emergency Price Control Act
to immunity from prosecution. The Government appealed to this
Court under the Criminal Appeals Act. Held:
1. The United $tates was, in any relevant sense, a party to the
proceedings, and the appeal was properly brought under the Criminal Appeals Act. Pp. 78-79.
2. Appellee was not entitled to immunity under § 202 (g) of the
Price Control Act and the rule to show cause should not have been
dismissed. See Shapiro v. United States, ante, p. 1. P. 79.
68 F. Supp. 53, reversed.

Solicitor General Perlman argued the cause for the
United States. With him on the brief were Assistant
Attorney Gen.ral Quinn, Philip Elman, Robert S. Erdahl
and Irving S. Shapiro.

OCTOBER TERM, 1947.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

Bernard Margolius argued the cause for appellee.
With him on the brief was Joseph B. Danzansky.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON delivered the opinion of
the Court.
On Feb. 27, 1946, the Price Administrator filed a petition, in the District Court for the District of Columbia,
to institute criminal contempt proceedings against appellee. The petition charged appellee with having made
numerous sales of used cars at over-ceiling prices in violation of an injunction previously issued by the District
Court. A rule to show cause was issued, but was dismissed on motion of the appellee, on the ground that
he was entitled to immunity under § 202 (g) of the Emergency Price Control Act from prosecution for the transactions upon which the petition was founded. 68 F.
Supp. 53.
The Government brought this appeal, under the provisions of the Criminal Appeals Act,' to review the decision of the District Court. The main issue is the same
as that presented in the companion case, Shapiro v. United
States, ante, p. 1, but two additional minor questions are
raised:
1. Appellee urges that the appeal wvas not properly
taken by the United States because the Government was
not a party to the proceedings in the District Court. The
record shows, however, that the litigation was instituted
in that court by a petition of the OPA District Enforcement Attorney on behalf of the Price Administrator.
When the rule to show cause was issued, the court appointed the United States Attorney and the OPA .District Enforcement Attorney as "attorneys to prosecute
1 34 Stat. 1246, as amended, by 56 Stat. 271, 18 U. S. C. (Supp. V

1946) § 682, and by'§ 238 of the Judicial Code as amended, 28 U. S. C.
§ 345.

UNITED STATES v. HOFFMAN.
77

Opinion of the Court.

the criminal charges contained in the petition filed herein
on behalf of the Court and of the United States." See
Rule 42 (b) of the Rules of Criminal Procedure, 327 U. S.
865-66. Thus the United States was, in any relevant
sense, a party to the proceedings, and the appeal was
properly brought under the Criminal Appeals Act. See
United States v. Goldman, 277 U. S.229, 235 (1928); Ex
parte Grossman, 267 U. S.87, 115 et seq. (1925).
2. The Government mentions a further consideration,
not involved in the Shapiro case. The record does not
state that the appellee was sworn and produced the records under oath, a condition precedent to the attainment
of immunity under a 1906 Amendment, 49 U. S. C. § 48,
to the Compulsory Testimony Act of 1893. It is unnecessary to consider this contention both because it does
not appear to have been duly raised in the court below,
and because the grounds considered and the views set
forth in our opinion in the Shapiro case suffice to dispose
of this appeal.
The decision of the District Court is reversed and the
case remanded for further proceedings.
Reversed.
dissents for the reasons
stated in his dissenting opinion in Shapiro v. United
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

States, ante, p. 36. MR. JUSTICE JACKSON and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY dissent for the reasons stated in MR. JUSTICE JACKSON'S dissenting opinion in Shapiro v. United
States, ante, p. 70. MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE dissents for
the reasons stated in his dissenting opinion in Shapiro v.
United States, ante, p. 71.

