CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.

MACDOUGALL

v. GREEN, GOVERNOR OF
ILLINOIS, ET AL.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE,
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS, EASTERN DIVISION.

No. 348. Argued October 18, 1948.-Decided October 21, 1948.
The Illinois Election Code, Ill. Rev. Stat., c. 46, § 10-2, requires that,
a petition to form, and to nominate candidates for, a new political
party be signied by at least 25,000 qualified voters, including at
least 200 from each of at least 50 of the 102 counties in the State.
Alleging that 52% of the State's registered voters 'eside in Cook:
County alone, 87% in the 49 most populous counties, and only
13% in the 53 least populous counties, appellants sued to enjoin
enforcement of the requirement of at least 200 signatures from.
each of at least 50 counties. Held: This requirement does not
violate the due-process, equal-protection or privileges-and-immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, Art. I, § 2 or § 4, Art.
II, § 1, or the Seventeenth Amendment of the Constitution of.
the United States. Pp. 282-284.
80 F. Supp. 725, affirmed.

In a suit to enjoin enforcement of Ill. Rev. Stat., c. 46,

§ 10-2, the District Court found want of jurisdiction and
denied the injunction. . 80 F. Supp. 725.
this Court, affirmed, p. 284.

On appeal to

John J. Abt and Richard F. Watt argued the cause
for appellants. With them on the brief were Earl B.
Dickerson and Edmund Hatfield.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General of Illinois, argued the cause for Green, Governor, et al., appellees. With him on the brief were George F. Barrett,
Attorney General, and Raymond S. Sarnow, Assistant
Attorney General.
Melvin F. Wingersky argued the cause for Flynn,
County Clerk, et al., appellees. With him on the brief
was Gordon B. Nash.
PER CURIAM.

This action was brought before a three-judge court
convened in the Northern District of Illinois under 28
U. S. C. § 2281 and § 2284. The object of the action is an
injunction against the enforcement of a provision which,
in 1935, was added to a statute of Illinois and which
requires that a petition to form and to nominate candidates for a new political party be signed by at least
25,000 qualified voters, "Provided, that included in the
aggregate total of twenty-five thousand (25,000) signatures are the signatures of two hundred (200) qualified
voters from each of at least fifty (50) counties within the
State." Ill. Rev. Stat. c. 46, § 10-2 (1947). Appellants
are the "Progressive Party," its nominees for United
States Senator, Presidential Electors, and State offices,
and several Illinois voters. Appellees are the Governor,
the Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Secretary of
State of Illinois, members of the Boards of Election Commissioners of various cities, and the County Clerks of
various counties. The District Court found want of
jurisdiction and denied the injunction. 80 F. Supp. 725.
Appellants invoke the jurisdiction of this Court under 28
U. S. C. § 1253.
The action arises from the finding of the State Officers
Electoral Board that appellants had -not obtained the
requisite number of signatures from the requisite number

MAcDOUGALL v. GREEN.
281

Opinion of the Court.

of counties and its consequent ruling that their nominating petition was "not sufficient in law to entitle the said
candidates' names to appear on the ballot." The appellants' claim to equitable relief against this ruling is based
upon the peculiar distribution of population among Illinois' 102 counties. They allege that 52% of the State's
registered voters are residents of Cook County alone,
87% are residents of the 49 most populous counties, and
only 13% reside in the 53 least populous counties. Under
these circumstances, they say, the Illinois statute is so
discriminatory in its application as to amount to a violation of the due-process, equal-protection, and privilegesand-immunities clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment,
is well as Article I, §§ 2 and 4, Article II, § 1, and the
Seventeenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States.
It is clear that the requirement of two hundred signaures from at least fifty counties gives to the voters of the
3ss populous counties of Illinois the power completely
o block the nomination of candidates whose support is
onfined to geographically limited areas. But the State
entitled to deem this power not disproportionate: of
:5,000 signatures required, only 9,890, or 39%, need be
listributed; the remaining 61% may be obtained from
single county. And Cook County, the largest, 6ontains
iot more than 52% of the State's voters. It is allowable
3tate policy to require that candidates for state-wide office
3hould have support not limited to a concentrated locality.
This is not a unique policy. See New York Laws 1896,
c. 909, § 57, now N. Y. Elec. Law § 137 (4); 113 Laws of
Ohio 349, Gen. Code § 4785-91. (1929), now Ohio Code

Ann. (Cuin. Supp. 1947) § 4785-91; Mass. Acts, 1943,
c. 334, § 2, now Mass. Ann. Laws c. 53, § 6 (1945). To
assume that political power is a function exclusively of
numbers is to disregard the practicalities of government.
Thus, the, Constitution protects the interests of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

RUTLEDGE,

J.

335 U. S.

smaller against the greater by giving in the Senate entirely unequal representation to populations. It would
be strange indeed, and doctrinaire, for this Court, applying such broad constitutional concepts as due process and
equal protection of the laws, to deny a State the power
to assure a proper diffusion of political initiative as between its thinly populated counties and those having
concentrated masses, in view of the fact that the latter
have practical opportunities for exerting their political
weight at the polls not available to the former. The
Constitution-a practical instrument of governmentmakes no such demands on the States. Colegrove v.
Green, 328 U. S. 549, and Colegrove v. Barrett, 330 U. S.
804.
On the record before us, we need not pass upon purely
local questions, also urged by appellants, having no federal constitutional aspect.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE.

In its facts and legal issues this case is closely analogous
to Colegrove v. Green, 328 U. S. 549. It presents serious
constitutional questions crucial to the validity of Illinois
election procedures and their application to the imminently impending general election. That a bare majority
of this Court resolve them 'one way and three others hold
opposing views only emphasizes their substantial character and supreme importance. These qualities are not
diminished by the fact that the Attorney General of Illinois, appearing for the three members of the so-called
"State Certifying Board,"' has conceded in his brief the
1 The State Certifying Board is composed of the Governor, the
Auditor of Public Accounts and the Secretary of State, and petitions
for the formation of new state-wide political parties are filed with.

this board. (Ill. Pev. Stat. c. 46 [1947] §§ 10-2, 10-4.) On the
filing of timely oWpction to such petitions, the certifying board

MAcDOUGALL v. GREEN.
281

Opinion of

RUTLEDGE,

J.

validity of appellants' position and at the bar of this
Court has confessed error in the decision of the District
Court. Nor is it insignificant or irrelevant that the application of the statutory procedures made by the state officials in practical effect denies to a substantial body of
qualified voters the right to exercise their suffrage in
behalf of candidates of their ch'oice.
Forced by the exigencies of their situation, appellants
have invoked federal equity jurisdiction in vindication of
their rights. They seek injunctive relief, in effect, to compel placing the names of their candidates upon the ballot
for the general election to be held on November 2. For
present purposes we may assume that appellants have
acted with all possible dispatch. Even so, we find ourselves confronted on the eve of the election with the
alternatives of denying the relief sought or of directing
the issuance of an injunction.
This choice, in my opinion, presents the crucial question
and the only. one necessarily or properly now to be decided. Beyond the constitutional questions it poses delicate problems concerning the propriety of granting the
relief in the prevailing circumstances. Even if we assume
that appellants' constitutional rights have been violated,
the questions arise whether, in those circumstances, the
equity arm of the federal courts can now be extended to
transmits the petitions and the objections to the State Officers Electoral Board, which is not a party to this action., After passing
on the objection, the State Officers Electoral Board informs the State
Certifying Board of its ruling, and the certifying board is required
to "abide by and comply with the ruling so made to all intents and
purposes." (Ill. Rev. Stat. c. 46 [1947] § 10-10.) Where objection
is not made, or where it is made and overruled, the new party and
the names of its candidates are certified by the State Certifying Board
to the several county clerks; the clerks or the local boards of election
commissioners, both groups being parties to this action, thereupon
are required to print ballots containing the names of the candidates
thus certified. (Ill. Rev. Stat. c. 46 [1947] § 10-14 )

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

RUTLEDGE, J.

335 U. S.

give effective relief; and whether the relief, if given, might
not do more harm than good, might not indeed either
disrupt the Illinois election altogether or disfranchise
more persons than have been disfranchised by the application of the questioned Illinois procedures.
Every reason existing in Colegrove v. Green, supra,
which seemed to me compelling to require this Court to
decline to exercise its equity jurisdiction and to decide
the constitutional questions is present here. See the
opinion concurring in the'result, 328 U. S. at 564. Indeed
the circumstances are more exigent and therefore more
compelling to that conclusion.
We are on the eve of the national election. But twelve
days remain. Necessarily some of these would be consumed in remanding the cause to the District Court and
in its consideration, formulation and issuance of an injunction in essentially specific terms. The ballots, as
certified by the state Officials, are in process of printing
and distribution. Absentee ballots have been distributed.
Illinois is one of the more populous states. Millions of
ballots will be required, not only in the state but in Cook
County alone. It is true that, on the short record before
us and in the necessarily brief time fvailable for preparing both the record and the briefs, appellees who oppose granting the relief have not made an absolutely conclusive factual showing that new ballots, containing the
names of' appellants' candidates, could not possibly be
priDted and distributed for use at the election. But they
suggest with good reason that this could not be done.
The task would be gigantic. Even with the mobilization of every possible resource, it is gravel* doubtful that
it could be accomplished. The risk would be vej'y large
that it could not be done. Even if it could for all except
absentee voters, they would be disfranchised. Issuance
of the injunction sought would invalidate the ballots

MAcDOUGALt v. GREEN.
281

DOUGLAS,

J.,. dissenting.

already prepared, including the absentee ballots, and those
now in course of preparation.
The sum of these considerations, without regard to
others not now necessary to state;, forces me to conclude
that the relief sought could be had at this late stage in the
electoral process only at the grvest risk of disrupting
that process completely in Illinois, or of disfranchising
Illinois voters in perhaps much greater numbers than
those whose interests appellants represent. That is a risk
which, in my judgment, federal courts of equity should
not undertake and indeed are not free to undertake within
the historic limits of their equity jurisdiction.
Accordingly, I express no opinion: concerning the constitutional and other questions presented. As in Colegrove v. Green, supra, I think the case is one in which,
for the reasons stated, this Court 'may properly, and
should, decline to exercise its jurisdiction in equity. Accordingly, but solely for this reason, I agree that the
judgment refusing injunctive relief should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

and MR.

with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK

JUSTICE MURPHY

concur, dissenting.

I think that the 1935 amendment of the Illinois Election Code, Ill. Rev. Stat. c. 46, § 10-2 (1947), as construed
and applied in this case, violates the Equal Protectiqn
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
That statute requires the nominating petition of a.new
political party, which places candidates on the ballot for
the general election, to contain 200 signatures from each
of at least 50 of the 102 counties in the state. The statute
does not attempV to make the required signatures- proportii~nate to the pofulation of each county. One effect,
of this requirement is that the electorate in 49 of the
counties which contain 87% of the registered voters could
not form a new political party and place its candidates on

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

the ballot. Twenty-five thousand of the remaining 13%
of registered voters, however, properly distributed among
the 53 remaining counties could form a new party to elect
candidates to office. That regulation thus discriminates
against the residents of the populous counties of the state
in favor of rural sections. It therefore lacks the equality
to which the exercise of political rights is entitled under
the Fourteenth Amendment.'
Free and honest elections are the very foundation of
our republican form of government. We are dealing here
with important political rights of the people-the voting
for electors provided by Article II, § 1, of the Constitution; the right of the people to elect senators, guaranteed
by the Seventeenth Amendment; the right of the people
to choose their representatives in Congress, guaranteed
,by Article I, § 2, of the Constitution. Discrimination
against any group or class of citizens in the exercise of
these constitutionally -protected rights of citizenship deprives the electoral process of integrity., The protection
which the Constitution gives voting rights covers not only
the general election but also extends to every integral
part-of the electoral process, including primaries. United
Statqs v. Classic, 313 U. S. 299; Smith v. Allwright, 321
U. S. 649. When candidates are chosen for the general
election by a nominating petition, that procedure also
becomes an integral part of the electoral process. It is
entitled to the same protection as that which the Fourteenth Amendment grants any other part.
None would deny that a state law giving some citizens
twice the vote of other citizens in either the primary or
general election would lack that equality which the
Fourteenth Amendment guarantees. See Nixon V.Hemdon, 273 U. S. 536! The dilution of political rights may
be as complete and effective if the samo discrimination
appears in the procedure prescribed for nominating petitions. See State v. Junkin, 85 Neb. 1, 122 Nr W. 473.

MAcDOUGALL v. GREEN
281

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

It would, of course, be palpably discriminatory in violation of the Equal Protection Clause if this law were aimed
at the Progressive Party in the manner that the state
law in Nixon v. Herndon, supra, was aimed at negroes.
But the'effect of a state law may bring it under the condemnation of the Equal Protection Clause however innocent its purpose. It is invalid if discrimination is apparent in its operation. The test is whether it has some
foundation in experience, practicality, or necessity. See
Skinner v. Oklahoma, 316 U. S. 535,541-542.
It is not enough to say that this law can stand that test
because it is designed to require statewide support for the
launching of a new political party rather than support
from a few localities. There is no attempt here, as I have
said, to make the required signatures even approximately
proportionate to the distribution of Voters among the
various counties of the state. No such proportionate
allocation could of course be mathematically exact. Nor
would it be required. But when, as here, the law applies
a rigid, arbitrary formula to sparsely settled counties and
populous counties alike, it offers no basis whatever to
justify giving greater weight to thi individual votes of
one group of citizens than to those of another group.
This legislation therefore has the same inherent infirmity
as that which some of us saw in Colegrove v. Green, 328
U. S. 549, 569. The fact that the Constitution itself
sanctions inequalities in some phases of our political system 1 does not justify us in allowing a state to create
1 The

Federalist No. 62 explained the equality of representation

of the States in the Senate as follows:
"Ifindee4 it be right, that among a people thoroughly incorporated
into one nation, every district ought to have a proportional share
in the government, and that among independent and sovereign
States, bouird together by a simple league, the parties, however
unequal in size, ought to have an equal share in the common councils,
it does not appear to be without some reason that in a compound

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

additional ones. The theme of the Constitution is equality among citizens in the exercise of their political rights.
The notion that one group can be granted greater voting
strength than another is hostile to our standards for
popular representative government.
Federal courts should be most hesitant to use the injunction in state elections. See Wilson v. North Carolina,
169 U. S. 586, 596. If federal courts undertook the role
of superintendence, disruption of the whole electoral process might result, and the elective system that is vital to
our government might be paralyzed. Cf. Johnson v.
Stevenson, 170 F. 2d 108. The equity court, moreover,
must always be alert in the exercise of its discretion to
make sure that its decree will not be a futile and ineffective thing. But the case, as made before us, does not
indicate that either of those considerations should deter us
in striking down this unconstitutional statute and in freeing the impending Illiois election of its impediments.
The state officials who are responsible for the election
and who at this bar confessed error in the decision of the
republic, partaking both of the national and federal character, the
government ought to be founded on a mixture of the principles of
proportional and equal representation.
"the equal vote allowed to each State is at once a constitutional
recognition of the portion of sovereignty remaining in the individual
States, and an instrument for preserving that residuary sovereignty.
So far the equality ought to be'no less acceptable to the large than
to the small States; since they are not less solicitous to guard,
by every possible expedient, against an improper consolidation of
the States into one simple republic.
"Another advantage accruing from this ingredient in the constitution of the Senate is, the additional impediment it must prove
against improper acts of legislation. No law or resolution can now
be passed without the concurrence, first, of a majority of the.people,

'and then, of a majority of the States."

MANDEL BROS. v. WALLACE.
281

Opinion of the Court.

District Court make no such intimation or suggestion.
We are therefore not authorized to assume that our decree would interfere with the orderly process of the
election.
MANDEL BROTHERS, INC. v. WALLACE.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 16.

Argued October 14, 1948.-Decided November 8, 1948.

1. Certain claims of Wallace and Hand Patent No. 2,236,387, for an
improved cosmetic preparation to retard or inhibit perspiration,
held invalid for want of invention. Pp. 291-296.
2. Since the use of urea as an anticorrosive agent in other compounds
was already a matter of public knowledge, its use in antiperspirants
to reduce the likelihood of skin irritation or garment corrosion was
merely the application of an old process to a new. use and was not
invention. Pp. 293-296.
164 F. 2d 861, reversed.

In a patent infringement suit, the District Court held
the claims invalid for want of invention and dismiss-d
the complaint. 67 F. Supp. 814. The Court of Appeals
reversed. 164 F. 2d 861. This Court granted certiorari.
333 U. S. 853. Reversed, p. 296.
Leonard S. Lyon argued the cause for petitioner.
him on the brief was Thomas A. Sheridan.

With

Charles J. Merriam argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Bernard A. Schroeder.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The respondent, owner of Wallace and Hand patent
No. 2,236,387, filed a complaint against this ljetitioner for

