McDONALD v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

McDONALD

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT.

No. 36.

Argued October 13, 1948.-Decided December 13, 1948.

Suspecting that petitioner McDonald was operating an illegal lottery,
police had kept himn under surveillance for two months. Thinking
that they detected from the outside the sound of an adding machine, they forced their way, without a warrant for search or arrest,
into a rooming house in which he had rented a room. They
proceeded to his room, looked through the transom, and observed
petitioners McDonald and Washington engaged in operating 5i
lottery. Demanding and obtaining entrance, they arrested both
petitioners and seized machines, papers and money which were in
plain view. These articles were admitted in evidence over the
objection of petitioners, who were convicted. Held:
1. The seizure was in violation of the Fourth Amendment, the
seized articles were not admissible in evidence against McDonald,
and his conviction cannot be su'stained. Pp. 452-456.
2. A search without a warrant is not justified unless the exigencies of the situation make that course imperative. Pp. 454-456.
3. Even if it be assumed that Washington's constitutional rights
were not invaded, the denial of McDonald's motion to exclude-the
evidence was, on these facts, prejudicial to Washington as well a§
to McDonald. P. 456.
83 U. S. App. D. C. 96, 166 F..2d 957, reversed.

Petitioners were convicted in a federal district court
on evidence obtained by a search without a warrant.
The Court of Appeals affirmed. 83 U. S. App. D. C. 96,
166 F. 2d 957. This Court granted certiorari. 333 U. S.
872.

Reversed, p. 456.

Charles E. Ford and John Lewis Smith, Jr. argued the

cause and filed a brief for petitioners.
Frederick Bernays Wiener argued the cause for the

United States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman, Robert S. Erdahl and Beatrice Rosenberg.

452

OCTOBER .TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioners were convicted in the District Court on evidence obtained by a search made without a warrant. The
Court of Appeals affirmed on a Aivided vote. 83 U. S.
App. D. C. 96, 166" F. 2d 957. We brought the case
here on certiorari because of doubts whether that result
squared with Johnsbn v. United States, 333 U. S. 10, and
Trupiana v. United States, 334 T. S. 699.
Petitioners were tried without a jury in the District
Court for the District of Columbia on an indictment in
four counts, charging offenses of carrying on a lottery
known as the numbers game in violation of 22 D. C.
Code §§ 1501, 1502, 1504 (1940). They were found guilty
on all counts.
Petitioner McDonald, who had previously been arrested for numbers operations, had been under police
observation for se~eral months prior to the arrest. During this period nd while he was maintaining a home
in the District of Columbia, he rented a room in the
residence of a Mrs. Terry, who maintained a rooming
house in the District. His comings and goings at this
address were under, surveillance by the police for about
two months. They had observed him enter the rooming
house during the hours in which operations at the headquarters of the numbers game are customarily carried on.
On the day of the arrest three police officers surrounded
the house. This was midafternoon. They did not have
a warrant for arrest nor a search warrant. While outside
.the house, one of the officers thought that he heard an
adding machine. These machines are frequently used in
the numbers operation. Believing that the numbers
game was in process, the officers sought admission to the
house.

McDONALD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion. of* the Court.

451

One of them opened a window leading into the landlady's room and climbed through. He identified himself
to her and admitted the other officers to the house.
After searching the romns on the ground floor, they
proceeded to the second floor. The door of an end bedroom was closed. But one of the officers stood on a chair
and looked through the transom. He observed both petitioners in the room, as well as numbers slips, money
piled on the table, and adding machines. He yelled to
McDonald to open the door and McDonald did so. Both
petitioners were arrested, and the officers seized the machines, a suitcase of papers, and money. Whether these
machines and papers should havce been suppressed as
evidence and returned to petitioner McDonald is the
major question presented.
The Fourth Amendment to the Constitution provides:
"The right of the people to be secure in their persons,
houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches
and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall
issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or
affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be
searched, and the persons or things to be seized." This
guarantee of protection against unreasonable searches and
seizures extends to the innocent and guilty alike. It
marks the right of privacy as one of the unique values
of our civilization and, with few exceptions, stays the
hands of the police unless theyr have a search warrant
issued by a magistrate on probable cause supported by
oath or affirmation. And the law provides as a sanction
against the flouting of this. constitutional safeguard the
suppression of evidence secured as a result of the violation,
when it is tendered in a federal court. Weeks v. United
States, 232 U. S. 383.
The prosecution seeks to build the lawfulness of the
search on the lawfulness of the arrest and so justify the
798176 o-49--34

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

search and seizure without a warrant. See Agnello v.
United States, 269 U. S. 20, 30; Harrisv., United States,
331 U. S. 145, 150-151. 'The reasoning runs as follows:
Although it was an invasion of privacy for the officers
to enter Mrs. Terry's room, that was a trespass which violated her rights under the Fourth Amendment, not McDonald's. Therefore so far as he was concerned, the
officers were lawfully within the hallway, as much so as
if Mrs. Terry had admitted them. Looking over the transom was not a search, for the eye cannot commit the trespass condemned by the Fourth Amendment. Since the
officers observed McDonald in the act of committing an
offense, they were under a duty then and there to arrest
him. See 4 D. C. Code §§ 140, 143 (1940). The arrest
being valid the search incident thereto was lawful.
We do not stop to examine that syllogism for flaws.
Assuming its correctness, we reject the result.
This is not a case where the officers, passing by on the
street, hear a shot and a cry for help and demand entrance
in the name of the law. They had been following McDonald and keeping him under surveillance for two
months at this rdoming house. The prosecution now tells
us that the police had no probable cause for obtaining a
warrant until, shortly before the arrest, they heard the
sound of the adding .machine coming from the rooming
house. And there is vague and general testimony in the
record that on previous occasions the officers had sought
search warrants but had been denied them. But those
statements alone do not lay the proper foundation for
dispensing with a search warrant.
Where, as here, officers are not responding to an emergency, there must be compelling reasons to justify the
absence of a search warrant. A search without a warrant demands exceptional circumstances, as we held in
Johnson v. United States, supra. We will not assume
that where a defendant has been under surveillance

McDONALD v. UNITED STATES.
451

Opinion of the Court.

for months, no search warrant could have been obtained. What showing these officers made when they
applied on. the earlier occasions, the dates of these applications, and all the circumstances bearing upon the
necessity to make this search without a warrant are
absent from this record. We cannot allow the constitutional barrier that protects the privacy of the individual
to be hurdled so easily. Moreover, when we move to
the scene of the crime, the reason for the absence of a
search warrant is even less obvious. When the .officers
heard the adding machine and, at the latest, whenthey
saw what was transpiring in the room, they certainly
had adequate grounds for seeking a search warrant.
Here, as in Johnson v. United States and Trupiano
v. United States, the defendant was not fleeing or seeking
to escape. Officers were there to apprehend petitioners
in case they tried to leave. Nor was the property in
the process of destruction nor as likely to be destroyed
as the opium paraphernalia in the Johnson case. Petitioners were busily engaged in their lottery venture.
No reason, except inconvenience of the officers and delay
in preparing papers and getting before a magistrate,
appears for the failure to seek a search warrant. But
those reasons are no justification for by-passing the constitutional requirement, as we held in Johnson v. United
States, supra, p. 15.
We are not dealing with formalities. The presence of
a search warrant serves a high function. Absent some
grave emergency, the Fourth Amendment has interposed
a magistrate between the citizen and the police. This
was done not to shield criminals nor to make the home a
safe haven for illegal activities. It was done so that an
objective mind might weigh the need to invade that
privacy in order to enforce the law. The right of privacy
was deemed too precious to entrust to the discretion of
those whose job is the detection of crime and the arrest

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

RUTLEDGE,

J.

335 U. S.

of criminals. Power is a heady thing; and history shows
that the police acting on their own cannot be trusted.
And so the Constitution requires a magistrate to pass on
the desires of the police before they violate the privacy
of the home. We cannot be true to that constitutional
requirement and excuse the absence of a search warrant
without a showing by those who seek exemption from the
constitutional mandate that the exigencies of the situation made that course imperative.
It follows from what we have said that McDonald's
motion for suppression of th'e evidence a-nd the return
of the property to him should have been granted. Weeks
v. United States, supra; Go-Bart Importing Co. v. United
States, 282 U. S. 344, 358. It was, however, denied and
the unlawfully seized evidence was used not only against
McDonald but against Washington as well, the two being
tried jointly. Apart from this evidence there seems to
have been little or none against Washington. Even
though we assume, without deciding, that Washington,
who was a guest of McDonald, had no right of privacy
that was broken when the officers searched McDonald's
room without a warrant, we think that the denial of McDonald's motion was error that was prejudicial to Washington as well. In this case, unlike Agnello v. United
States, supra, p. 35, the unlawfully seized naterials were
the basis of evidence used against the codefendant. If
the property had been returned to McDonald, it would
not have been available for use at the trial. We can only
speculate as to whether other evidence which might have
been used against Washington would have been equally
probative.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs

in the result.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concurs in the result, and in

the opinion insofar as it relates to the petitioner McDon-

McDONALD v. UNITED STATES.
451

JACKSON,

J., concurring.

ald. With respect to the petitioner Washington he is of
the view that the evidence, having been illegally obtained,
was inadmissible. Cf. Malinski v. New York, 324 U. S.
401, opinion dissenting in part p. 420 at pp. 430-432.
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON,

concurring.

I agree with the result and with the opinion of the
Court. But it rejects the search which two courts below
have sustained without saying wherein it was wrong. It
may be helpful to lower courts and to the police themselves to state what appears to some of us as the reason
this search is bad.
The police for several weeks had this defendant, McDonald, under surveillance. The United States Commissioner was approached about a search warrant but, for
reasons which do not appear, declined to issue it. The
only additional information which led the officers to take
the law into their own hands and make this search without a warrant was that they heard an adding machine
or a typewriter-the witness was not sure which-operating on the premises. Certainly the sound of an adding
machine or typewriter, standing alone, is no indication
of crime and it could become significant only when
weighed in connection with other evidence. A magistrate might either have issued or refused a warrant if
request had been made.
However, the officer in charge of the investigation took
the matter into his own hands. He neither had nor
sought a search warrant or warrant of arrest; he did
not then have knowledge of a crime sufficient, even in
his own opinion, to justify arrest, and he did not even
know that the suspect, McDonald, was in the rooming
house at the time. Nevertheless, he forced open the
window of the landlady's bedroom and climbed in. He
apparently was in plain clothes but showed his badge
to the frightened woman, brushed her aside and then

1458

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON, J., concurring.

335 U. S.

unlocked doors and admitted two other officers. They
then went to the hall outside the room rented and occupied by defendant. The'officer in charge climbed on a
chair and looked through a transom. Seeing the defendant McDonald engaged in activity which he considered
to be part of the lottery procedure, he arrested him and
searched the quarters. The Government argued, and the
court below- held, that since the forced entry into the
building was through the landlady's window, in a room
in which the defendant as a tenant had no rights, no
objection to this mode of entry -or to the search that
followed was available to him.
Doubtless a tenant's quarters in a rooming or apartment house are legally as well as practically exposed to
lawful approach by a good many persons without his
consent or control. Had the police been admitted as
guests of another tenant or had the approaches been
thrown open by an obliging landlady or doorman, they
would have" been legally in the hallways.. Like any
other stranger, theycould then spy or eavesdrop on others
without being trespassers. If they peeped through the
keyhole or climbed on a chair or on one another's shoulders to look through the transom, I should see no grounds
on which the defendant could complain. If in this manner they, or any private citizeA, saw a crime in the course
of commission, an arrest would be permissible.
But it seems to me that each tenant of a building,
while he has no right to exclude from the common hallways those who enter lawfully, does have a personal and
constitutionally protected interest in the integrity and
security of the entire building against unlawful breaking
and entry. Here the police gained access to their Pteeking post by means that were not merely unauthorized but
by means that were forbidden by law and denounced, as
criminal. In prying up the porch window and climbing

McDONALD v. UNITED STATES.
451

JACKSON,

J., concurring.

into the andlady's bedroom, they were guilty of breaking
and entering-a felony in law and a crime far more serious than the one they were engaged in suppressing. Having forced an entry without either a search warrant or
an arrest warrant to justify it, the felonious character
of their entry, it seems to me, followed every step of their
journey inside the house and tainted its fruits with illegality. Cf. Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383;
Taylor v. United States, 286 U. S. 1; Johnson v. United
States, 333 U. S. 10.
Even if one were to conclude that urgent circumstances
might justify a forced entry without a warrant, no such
emergency was present ip this case. This method of law
enforcement displays a shocking lack of all sense of proportion. Whether there is reasonable necessity for a
search without waiting to obtain a warrant certainly depends somewhat upon the gravity of the offense thought
to be in progress as well as the hazards of the method of
attempting to reach it. In this case the police had been
over two months watching the defendant McDonald.
His criminal operation, while a shabby swindle that the
police are quite right in suppressing, was not one which
endangered life or limb or the peace and good order of the
community even if it continued another day or two;
neither was the racket one the defendant was likely to
abandon. Conduct of the numbers racket is not a solitary
vice, practiced in secrecy and discoverable only by crashing into dwelling houses. The real difficulty is that it
is so little condemned by otherwise law-abiding people
that it flourishes widely and involves multitudes of people.
It is to me a shocking proposition that private homes,
even quarters in a tenement, may be indiscriminately
invaded at the discretion of any suspicious police officer
engaged in following up offenses that involve no violence
or threats of it. While I should be hunoan enough to

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., concurring

335 U. S.

apply the letter of the law with some indulgence to
officers acting to deal with threats or crimes of violence
which endanger life or .security, it is notable that few
of the searches found by this Court to be unlawful dealt
with that category of crime. Almost without exception,
the overzeal was in suppressing. acts not malum in se
but only malum prohibitum.' While the enterprise of
parting fools from their money by the "numbers" lottery
is one that ought to be suppressed, I do not think its
suppression is more important to society than the security
of the people against unreasonable searches and seizures.
When an officer undertakes to act as his own magistrate,
he ought to be in a position to justify it by pointing.to
some real immediate and serious consequences if he postponed action to get a warrant.
I am the less reluctant to reach this conclusion because
the method of enforcing the law exemplified by this search
is one which not only violates legal rights of defendant
but is certain to involve the.police in grave troubles if
continued. That it did not do so on this occasion was
due to luck more than to foresight. Many homeowners
in this crime-beset city. doubtless are armed. When a
woman sees a strange man, in plain clothes, prying up her
For example, the instant case involves a statute forbidding lotteries in the District of Columbia; Trupiano v. United States, 334

U. S. 699, liquor control and revenue statutes; Johnson v. United
States, 333 U. S. 10, narcotic control and revenue statutes; Na~hanson
v. United States, 240 U. S. 41, liquor control and tariff statute.
Other cases involving liquor control or taxing statutes, or both,
arc nunerous; see, e. q.. Taylor v. United States, 286 U. S. 1; United
States v.Lefkowitz, 285 U. S. 452; Go-Bart Importing Co. v. United
States, 282 U. S. 344; Gavbino v. United States, 275 U. S. 310;
Amos v. United States, 255 U. S. 313. Agnello v. United States,
269 U. S. 20, involved cocaine control and taxing statutes; and
Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, involved a statute forbidding
use of the mails to distribute lottery tickets.

McDONALD v. UNITED STATES.
451

BURTON,

461

J., dissenting.

bedroom window and climbing in, her natural impulse
would be to shoot. A plea of justifiable homicide might
result awkwardly for enforcement officers. But an officer seeing a gun being drawn on him might shoot first.
Under the circumstances of this case, I should not want
the task of convincing a jury that it was not murder. I
have 'no'reluctance in condemning as unconstitutional a
method of law enforcement so reckless and' so fraught
with dlanger and discredit to the law eilforcement agencies
themselves.
As to defendant Washington: He was a guest on the
premises. He could have no immunity from spying and
listening by those rightfully in the house.. But even a
guest may expect the shelter of the rooftree he is under
against criminal intrusion. I should reverse as to both
defendants.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER* having joined in the
Court's opinion, also concurs in this opinion.
with whom THE
and MR. JUSTICE REED join, dissenting.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON,

CHIEF JUSTICE

In our opinion the judgment should have been affirmed.
This is a case of a lawful arrest followed by a seizure of
the instruments of the crime which then were in plain
sight. There was no search. There is, therefore, no issue
as to the need for a search warrant. In regard to the
arrest, the Only issue is as to the need for' a warrant of
arrest to make it lawful. For the reasons stated below,
we believe the arrest for the crime committed in the presence of the officers was clearly lawful without the issuance,
of a formal warrant for it. At the time of the raid, there
were sufficient grounds to justify the police in suspecting
that 'the unlawful lottery, which later proved to be in
operation, was in progress within the building which had

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BURTON,

J., dissenting.

335 U. S.

been under surveillance. A "numbers game," such as was
there conducted, is a form of lottery generally regarded as
detrimental to the communities where it flourishes. It
is highly profitable to its principals at the expense of its
players. Yet it is so simple in operation that its headquarters are readily movable. Accordingly, it requires
substantial police effort to stop such unlawful operations
at their source. It is difficult to locate the principals
and it is still more difficult to secure proof sufficient
to convict them unless they are arrested in the midst
of one of the comparatively brief periodical sessions when
the essential computations for the operation of the lottery
are being made. Such sessions are held when the operators determine the day's winners and arrange for the
distribution among those winners of their respective
shares of the cash which has been collected through a
network of writers, collectors and runners.
Under the circumstances, a prompt entry by the police
was justified when they reasonably suspected that the
crime of operating a numbers lottery was being committed at that moment. The petitioners, as tenants or occupants of a room, had no right to object to the presence of
officers in the hall of the rooming house. The actual
observance by the police of the commission of the suspected crime thereupon justified their immediate arrest of
those engaged in it without securing a warrant for such
arrest.
This case is primarily an instance where the police
succeeded in surprising the petitioners in the midst of
the unlawful operations which the police suspected were
being carried on periodically by McDonald as a principal
operator and by others at the place in question. It is
generally not a violation of any constitutional privilege of
the accused for a police officer to arrest such accused
without a warrant of arrest if the arrest is made at the

McDONALD v. UNITED STATES.
451

BURTON,

J., dissenting.

very moment when the accused is engaged in a violation
of law in the presence of the officer. It is generally not
a violation of any constitutional privilege of such accused
for the arresting officer thereupon to seize at least the
articles then in plain sight and which have been seen
the officer to have been used in the commission of the
crime for which the accused is being arrested. We. see
-no adequate reason for a distinction in favorof the accused here. In this case there was no search for the
seized property because its presence was obvious. Also,
there was no seizure of anything other than the articles
which the arresting officer saw in use in some material
connection with the crime which the accused committed
in the officer's presence. It, therefore, was not a violation
of the constitutional rights of the accused to permit such
seized articles to be presented in evidence in securing
their convictions of the crimes which they were charged
with committing in the presence of the arrestinj officer.

