OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

335 U. S.

has been written of late on the subject of juries, makes
these lofty pronouncements sound a little hollow.
I would reverse this rather insignificant conviction and
end this system before it builds up into a scandalous
necessity for reversal of some really significant conviction.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY join in this opinion.

CORAY, ANCILLARY ADMINISTRATOR,
SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF UTAH.

No. 54.

Argued December 6-7, 1948.-Decided January 3, 1949.

In a suit under the Federal Safety Appliance and Federal Employers'
Liability Acts to recover damages for the death of a railroad
employee, the undisputed evidence established that the employee
was killed when a motor-driven track car on which he was following
a train crashed into the train when it stopped suddenly and
unexpectedly because of a defective air-brake appliance. Held:
1. His administrator was entitled to recover if this defective
appliance was the sole or a contributory proximate cause of the
employee's death. Pp. 521-523.
2. On the evidence in this case, the jury could have found that
decedent's death resulted in whole or in part from the defective
appliance; and it was error to direct a verdict for the railroad.
Pp. 523-524.
Utah -,
185 P. 2d 963, reversed.

In a suit under the Federal Safety Appliance and Federal Employers' Liability Acts to recover damages from
a railroad for the death of an employee, a state trial court
directed a verdict for the railroad. The Supreme Court
of Utah affirmed. Utah - , 185 P. 2d 963. This
Court granted certiorari. 335 U. S. 807. Reversed and
.remanded,p. 524.

CORAY v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
520

Opinion of the Court.

Parnell Black argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Calvin W. Rawlings and Harold E.
Wallace
A. H. Nebeker argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Paul H. Ray and S. J. Quinney.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

deliverea the opinion of the Court.

This action was brought in a Utah state court under
the Federal Safety Appliance and Federal Employers'
Liability Acts 1 to recover damages for the death of Frank
Lucus, an employee of the respondent railroad. The decedent's death occurred when a one-man flat-top motordriven track car crashed into the back end of an eightytwo-car freight train on a main-line track at a point near
Lemay, Utah. Both train and motorcar were being operated in an eastward direction on railroad business. The
train unexpectedly stopped just before the crash occurred
because the air in its brake lines escaped, thereby locking
the brakes. The air had escaped because of a violation of
the Federal Safety Appliance Act in that the threads on
a valve were so badly worn that a nut became disconnected. When the brakes locked, the motorcar was several hundred feet behind the freight train moving at about
the same rate as the train, not an excessive rate under ordinary circumstances. The motorcar was equipped with
brakes which had they been applied could have stopped
the car within a distance of about one hundred feet.
But the decedent who was in control of the car did not
apply the brakes. Apparently he and another employee
with him were looking backward toward a block signal
and therefore did not know the train had stopped.2
127 Stat. 531, 45 U. S. C. §§ 1, 8, 9; 35 Stat. 65, as amended,
36 Stat. 291, and 53 Stat. 1404, 45 U. S. C. §§ 51, 53.
2 Petitioner was employed by the railroad as a signal maintainer.
The other occupant of the motorcar had just been employed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

Despite the proof that the train had stopped because
of the railroad's violation of the Federal Safety Appliance
Act, the state trial judge directed the jury to return a
verdict in the railroad's favor. This resulted from the
court's holding that the Act didn't apply to Mr. Lucus,
that the Act's protection against defective brakes did
not extend to employees following and crashing into a
train which stopped suddenly because of defective brake
appliances.
On appeal the State Supreme Court affirmed.
Utah -, 185 P. 2d 963. That court agreed with the
trial court's interpretation of the Safety Appliance Act
and also held that the evidence failed to show that the
defective appliance was the "legal" cause of the crash
and of the death of decedent. The obvious importance
of the restrictive interpretation given to the two federal
Acts prompted us'to grant certiorari.
First. We cannot agree with the State Supreme Court's
holding that although the railroad ran its train with
defective brakes it thereby "violated no duty owing" to
the decedent. That court said that the object of the
Safety Appliance Act "insofar as brakes might be concerned, is not to protect employees from standing, but
from moving trains."
We do not view the Act's purpose so narrowly. It
commands railroads not to run trains" with defective
brakes. An abrupt or unexpected stop due to bad brakes
might be equally dangerous to employees and others as
a failure to stop a train because of bad brakes. And this
Act, fairly interpreted, must be held to protect all who
-

work in the same capacity. This was the new employee's first
trip and he took the trip to familiarize himself with the signals.
Both occupants of the car were seated and looking back in the
direction of a block signal. Contributory negligence is not a defense
to this action.

CORAY v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.
520

Opinion of the Court.

need protection from' dangerous results due to maintenance or operation of congressionally prohibited defective appliances. Fairport,P. & E. R. Co. v. Meredith,
292 U. S. 589, 597. Liability of a railroad under the
Safety Appliance Act for injuries inflicted as a result
of the Act's violation follows from the unlawful use of
prohibited defective equipment "not from the position the
employee may be in or the work which he may be doing
at the moment when he is injured." Brady v. Terminal
R. Assn., 303 U. S. 10, 16; Louisville & N. R. Co. v.
Layton, 243 U. S. 617, 621. In this case where undisputed
evidence established that the train suddenly stopped
because of defective air-brake appliances, petitioner was
entitled to recover if this defective equipment was the
sole or a contributory proximate cause of the decedent
employee's death. Davis v. Wolfe, 263 U. S. 239, 243;
Spokane & I. E. R. Co. v. Campbell, 241 U. S. 497, 509510.
Second., The Utah Supreme Court reviewed the evidence here and held as a matter of law that the defective
equipment did not proximately cause or contribute to
the decedent's death. That court discussed distinctions
between "proximate cause" in the legal sense, deemed a
sufficient cause to impose liability, and "cause" in the
"philosophic sense," deemed insufficient to impose liability. It considered the stopping of this train to have
been a cause of decedent's death in the "philosophic
sense" in that the stopping created "a condition upon
which the negligence of plaintiffs' intestate operated," one
perhaps of many causes "so insignificant that no ordinary
mind would think of them as causes." The court added,
however, that the stopping "was not the legal cause of
the result," thereby classifying it as not "a substantial
factor as well as actual factor in bringing about" the
'decedent's death. This conclusion was reached in part

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

upon the reasoning that "The leak in the triple valve
caused the train to stop; because as a safety device, it
was designed to do just that."
I
The language selected by Congress to fix liability in
cases of this kind is simple and direct. Consideration
of its meaning by the introduction of dialectical subtleties can serve no useful interpretative purpose. The
statute declares that railroads shall be responsible for
their employees' deaths "resulting in whole or in part"
from defective appliances such as were here maintained.
45 U. S. C. § 51. And to make its purpose crystal clear,
Congress has also provided that "no such employee . . .
shall be held to have been guilty of contributory negligence in any case" where a violation of the Safety Appliance Act; such as the one here, "contributed to the . . .
death of such employee." 45 U. S. C. § 53. Congress has
thus for its own reasons imposed extraordinary safety
obligations upon railroads and has commanded that if a
breach of these obligations contributes in part to an
employee's death, the railroad must pay damages. These
air-brakes were defective; for this reason alone the train
suddenly and unexpectedly stopped; a motor track car
following at about the same rate of speed hnd operated
by an employee., looking in another direction crashed
into the train; all of these circumstances were inseparably related to one another in time and space. The
jury could have found that decedent's death resulted from
any or all of the foregoing circumstances.
It was error to direct a verdict for the railroad. The
judgment of the State Supreme Court is reversed and
the cause is remanded to that court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

