UNITED STATES v. URBUTEIT.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. URBUTEIT.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

Argued October 13-14, 1948.-Decided November Z2, 1948.

No. 13.

Certain machines bearing no labeling other than name and serial
number were shipped in interstate commerce. Subsequently, but
as a part of the same transaction, there were shipped to the same
consignee certain leaflets containing allegedly false and misleading
statements relative to the value of the machines in the diagnosis,
prevention, treatment and cure of disease. These leaflets were
used by the consignee in explaining the use of the machines to
his patients and in selling some of. them to patients. Held: The
separate shipment of the machines and leaflets did not prevent the
machines from being subject to condemnation under § 304 (a) of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 52 Stat. 1044, 21 U. S. C.
§ 334, as devices "misbranded when introduced into" interstate
commerce. Kordel v. United States, ante, p. 345. Pp. 355-358.
164 F. 2d 245, reversed.

A federal district court ordered certain machines condemned under § 304 (a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act, 52 Stat. 1044, 21 U. S. C. § 334. The
Court of Appeals reversed. 164 F. 2d 245. This Court
granted certiorari.

333 U. S. 872,

Reversed, p. 358.

Solicitor General Perlman argued the cause
for the

United States. With him on the brief were Philip Elman, William W. Goodrich and Bernard D. Levinson.
H.

0.

Pemberton argued the cause and filed a brief

for respondent.

Opinion of the Court by MR.
nounced by MR. JUSTICE REED.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

an-

The United States filed a libel under the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (52 Stat. 1044, 21 U. S. C. § 334),

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

335 U. S.

seeking seizure of 16 machines labeled "Sinuothermic."
The libel alleged that the device was misbranded within
the meaning of the Act (52 Stat. 1050, 21 U. S. C.
§ 352 (a)) in that representations in a leaflet entitled
"The Road to Health", relative to the curative and therapeutic powers of the device in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment and prevention of disease were false
and misleading. It charged that the leaflet had accompanied the device in interstate commerce.
Respondent, Fred Urbuteit, appeared as claimant of
several of the devices. He admitted that the devices and
leaflets had been shipped in interstate commerce, but
denied that they were shipped together or Ihat they were
related to each other. He also denied that the statements
made in the leaflet were false or misleading. The case
was tried without a jury and the articles were ordered
condemned. The judgment was reversed by the Court
of Appeals. 164 F. 2d 245. The case is here on certiorari
to resolve the conflict between it and Kordel v. United
States, ante, p. 345.
Respondent Urbuteit terms himself a naturopathiphysician and conducts the Sinuothermic Institute in
Tampa, Florida. The machines against which the libel
was filed are electrical, devices allegedly aiding in the
"l gnosis and cure of- various diseases and physical disok .rs such as cancer, diabetes, tuberculosis,.arthritis, and
paralysis. The alleged cures effected through its use are
described in the allegedly false and misleading leaflet,
"The Road to Health," published by Urbuteit and distributed for use with the machines.
Urbuteit shipped from Florida a number of these machines to one Kelsch, a former pupil of his who lives in
Ohio. Kelsch used these machines in treating his patients
and, though he did not receive them as a merchant, he
sold some to patients. As part of this transaction Urbuteit contracted to furnish Kelsch with a supply of leaflets,

UNITED STATES v. URBUTEIT.
355 .

Opinion of the Court.

which were sent from Florida to Ohio at a different time
than when the machines were forwarded. Kelsch used
the leaflets to explain the machines to his patients.
The leaflets seem to have followed the shipment of
the machines. But as Kordel v. United States holds,
that is immaterial where the advertising matter that was
sent was designed to serve and did in fact serve the purposes of labeling. This machine bore only the words,
U. S. Patent Sinuothermic Trade Mark. It was the
leaflets that explained the usefulness of the device in
the diagnosis, treatment, and cure of various diseases.
Measured by functional standards, as § 201 (m) (2) of
the Act permits, these leaflets constituted one of the types
of labeling which the Act condemns.
The power to condemn is contained in § 304 (a) and
is confined to articles "adulterated or misbranded when
introduced into or while in interstate commerce." ' We
do not, however, read that provision as requiring the
advertising matter to travel with the machine. The reasons of policy which argue against that in the case of
criminal prosecutions under § 303 are eqtally forcible
when we come to libels under § 304 (a). Moreover, the
common sense of the matter is to view the interstate
transaction in its entirety-the purpose of the advertising
and its actual use. In this case it is plain to us that
the movements of machines and leaflets in interstate
commerce were a single interrelated activity, not separate
or isolated ones. The Act is not concerned with the
purification of the stream of commerce in the abstract.
The relevant portion of this section reads as follows:
"Any article of food, drug, device, or cosmetic that is adulterated
1

or misbranded when introduced into or while in interstate commerce ...shall be liable to be proceeded against while in interstate
commerce, or at any time thereafter, on libel of information and
condemned in any district court of the United States within the
jurisdiction of which the article is found
,798176 0-49---28

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Dissent.

335 U. S.

The problem is a practical one of consumer protection,
not dialectics. The fact that the false literature leaves
in a separate mail .does not save the article from being
misbranded. Where by functional standards the two
transactions are integrated, the requirements of § 304 (a)
are satisfied, though the mailings or shipments are at
different times.
The Court of Appeals held that certain evidence
tendered by Urbuteit as to the therapeutic or curative
value of the machines had been erroneously excluded at
the trial, a ruling that we are not inclined to disturb.
Petitioner claims, however, that the error was not prejudicial. The argument is that since the evidence of the
false and misleading character of the advertising as respects the diagnostic capabilities of the machines was
overwhelming, that false representation was adequate to
sustain the condemnation, though it be assumed that the
therapeutic phase of the case was not established. We
do not reach that question. Since the case must be remanded to the Court of Appeals, that question and any
others that have suryived will be open for consideration
by it.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, MR.

JUSTICE MURPHY, and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON dissent for
the reasons stated in their dissent in Kordel v. United
States, ante, p. 345, decided this day, although this case
arises under the limitation of § 304 (a), "while in interstate commerce," which has a different scope from § 301
(k), while "held for sale after shipment in interstate
commerce."

