AYRES v. WISWALL. Statement of Facts.

produce his witnesses and show his ability to furnish the testimony if allowed to do so.
It is a matter of no importance whether the decision in
the Wagner suit was in conflict with that of this court in
Scotland County v. Thomas, mpra, or not. The question here
is -ot one of authority but of adjudication. If there has been
an adjudication which binds the plaintiff, that adjudication,
whether it was right or wrong, concludes him until it has been
reversed or otherwise set aside in some direct proceeding for
that purpose. It cannot be disregarded any more in the courts
of the United States than in those of the State.
Without considering any of the other questions which have
been argued, we reverse the judgment and
Je'mand the cause for a new trial,

AYRES & Others v. WISWALL & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Submitted October 20, 184.-Decided November 10, 1684.
In a proceeding commenced in a State court to foreclose a mortgage, which
prays judgment that the mortgage debtors be adjudged to pay the amount

found due on the debt, and in default thereof that the property be sold, a
mortgage debtor who has parted with his interest in the property subject to
the debt (which the purchaser agreed to assume and pay), is a necessary
party to the suit ; and if he is a citizen of the same State with the mortgagees, or one of them, the suit cannot be removed to the Circuit Court of
the United States under the provision of the first clause of ยง 2, act of March
3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470.
The filing of separate answers by several defendants in a suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage, which raise separate issues in defending against the one
cause of action, does not create separate controversies within the meaning of
the second clause in . 2, act of March 3, 1875. 18 Stat. 470.

This is an appeal under ยง 5 of the act of Mlarch 3, 1875, ch.
137, IS Stat. 470, from an order of the Circuit Court remand-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statemert of Facts.

ing a case which had been removed from a State court. The
suit was brought on the 15th of April, 1879, in the Circuit
Court of Huron County, Michigaqn, by the appellees, citizens
of

N>ew

York, against Ebenezer Wiswall, also a citizen of New

York; Ebenezer R. Ayres, a citizen of Ohio; Frederick S.
Ayres, James S. Ayres, Charles G. Learned, citizens of Michigan, and many others whose citizenship did not appear, to foreclose a mortgage executed by Frederick S. Ayres, Charles G.
Learned and Ebenezer Wiswall, to Catharine E. Wiswall, a citizen of New York, to secure a debt owing by them jointly to
her. This mortgage, and the debt it secured, were assigned to
the appellees before the suit was brought. After the mortgage was made, Ebenezer Wiswall contracted in writing to sell
to Frederick S. Ayres his interest in the mortgaged property,
subject to the mortgage debt which Ayres assumed to pay as
part ,of the consideration money. Afterwards Learned sold
and transferred to Ebenezer RI. Ayres all his remaining interest in a part of the mortgaged property, subject to the mortgage which Frederick S. Ayres; James S. Ayres and Ebenezer
Ayres bound themselves to pay. Between the time of the
execution of the mortgage and the commendement of the suit,
the mortgagors and their grantees sold and conveyed a large
number of the parcels of the mortgaged property to various
persons whose citizenship did not appear. All these purchasers
were made palies. The bill, after setting forth the execution
of the mortgage, and the various transfers and conveyances,
and giving credit for certain payments on the mortgage debt,
prayed that Frederick S. Ayres, Charles G. Learned and Ebenezer Wiswall be decreed to pay the amount found due on the
mortgage debt, and in default that the property, or so much
thereof as was necessary, might be sold and the proceeds applied to that purpose. It further prayed for execution against
Frederick S. Ayres, Charles G. Learned, Ebenezer Wiswall and
James S. Avres for any balance of the debt which might remain due after the property was exhausted.
Ebenezer Wiswall and Learned filed separate answers to the
bill, in which they admitted the execution of the mortgage
and the debt for the security of which it was given, and asked

,AYRES v. WISWALL.
Statement of Facts.

that their respective grantees, who had assumed the payment
of the mortgage debt, might be decreed to be first personally
liable for any money decree that should be rendered.
Frederick S. Ayres and James S. Ayres also answered, denying that the original debt for which the mortgage was ex4cuted amounted to as much as it was stated in the mortgage
to be, and averring that other payments had been made beyond
those stated in the bill. They insisted that there was not
more than $20,000 due, and this they offered to pay.
In this state of the pleadings Frederick S. Ayres, James S.
Ayres and Ebenezer R. Ayres, on the 28th of November, 18?79,
filed in the State court a petition, accompanied by the necessary bond, for the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the'Eastern District of Michigan. The
parts of the petition material to the present inquiry were as
follows:
"That said complainants are, and were at the time said suit
was commenced, citizens of New York. That your petitibners,
Frederick S. Ayres and James S. Ayres are, and were when
said suit was commenced, citizens of Michigan, and your petitioner, Ebenezer IR.Ayres, is, and was when said suit was commenced, a citizen of Ohio. That in said suit, which is for the
foreclosure of a mortgage on a large tract of land in the Eastern
District of Michigan, there is a controversy which is wholly
between said complainants and these petitioners, and which
can be fully determined, as to them, without the presence of
the other defendants."
Under this petition the case was taken to the Circuit Court
of the United States, where it remained until the 29th of December, 1881, and until after a hearing and a decree finding the
amount due on the mortgage and ordering a sale of the property. While the case was in the United States court, Ebenezer
R. Ayres filed an answer, presenting substantially the same
issues as those of Frederick S. and J. S. in the State court. On
the 29th of December, 1881, and during the same term in
which the final decree was rendered, the following order was
made:
"It appearing to the court that the record in this cause was

OCTOBER TERM, 1884..
Opinion of the Court.

improperly removed to the court from the Circuit Court of the
County of Hluron, in chancery, and that this court hath not
jurisdiction of the cause, it is ordered that the proceedings had
thereon in this court be, and the same are hereby set aside and
held for naught, and that the said cause be remanded to the
said Circuit Court for Huron County, in chancery, and that
this cause be dismissed from this court for want of jurisdiction."
From this order the present appeal was taken on the 12th of
November, 1883.
.Xr.
John F. -Dillonand -Yr. Jokn Athinson for appellants.
.1lr. J ZT

icGowan and -Yr. IF 7. .Xtckell for appellees.

M. CHIEF JusTicE, WITE delivered the opinion of the court.
He stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The 5th section of the act of March 3, 1875, makes it the
duty of the Circuit Court of the United States to remand a
cause which has been removed from a State court when it shall
appear to the satisfaction of the court, at any time after the
suit has been removed, that such suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly-within the
jurisdiction of the court. For this purpose the Circuit Court
retained its power over the suit and the parties until the end of
the term at which the final decree was rendered. The parties
were not, in law, discharged from their attendance in the cause
until the close of the term, and the decree, though entered, was
"in the breast of the court" until the final adjournment. Bac.
Abr. tit. Amendment and Jeofail, A; Ex _pare Lange, 18
Wall. 163; Goddard v. Ordway, 101 U. S.745, 752. The order
to remand can be made at any time during the pendencv of the
cause when it shall appear there is no jurisdiction. The fact
that Ebenezer R. Ayres had filed his answer in the United
States court is a matter of no importance. That fact did not
of itself confer jurisdiction if there had been none before. It
will be for the State court, when the case gets 13ack there, to
determine what shall be done with pleadings filed and testi-

AYRES v. WISWALL.
Opinion of the Court.

mony taken during the pendency of the suit in the other jurisdiction.
The suit was brought for the foreclosure of the mortgage,
and a personal money decree for any balance that might remain due on the debt after the security of the mortgage was exhausted. The mortgage and the debt it secured presented the
subject matter of the controversy in the case. Ebenezer Wiswall was one of the mortgagors and one of the debtors. The
relief sought was against him and the other defendants. It involved a finding of the amount due from him and the others
who were bound for the payment of the debt, and in a certain
event an order for an execution against him personally for the
collection of the money. The debt was a unit. Whatever sum
was due from one was also due from all who were chargeable'
with its payment. There could not be a decree against a part
of the defendants for one sum, and against the rest for another.
Although Wiswall did not contest the amount of the claim of
the complainants as set out in their bill, Frederick S. Ayres,
one of the joint debtors, did; and if he succeeds in his defence
it will, of necessity, inure to the benefit of Wiswall. The matter in dispute between the parties on the opposite side of the
suit to enforce the mortgage, was the amount due on the mortgage debt. The complainants, citizens of New York, Ir6 on
one side of the suit, and Ebenezer Wiswall, also a citizen of
New York, and others, citizens of Michigan and Ohio, on the
other. If the claim of the complainants is sustained, -the decree
will be against all the defendants. In order that the complainants may get all the relief they ask, and which, upon their
showing in the bill, they are entitled to, Wiswall is a necessary
and substantial party to the suit, and on the opposite side from
them.
The material facts of this case are entirely different from
those in the Iernoval Cases, 100 U. S. 457, where there was
one controversy between the construction company and the railroad company as to the existence of a mechanics' lien and the
-amount due thereon, and another between the construction
company and certain mortgage trustees as to the priority of
their respective liens. In the progress of the cause the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

mechanics' lien was established against the company, and the
property sold under the lien to pay the mechanics' debt. This
ended that controversy. There then remained to be settled
the other controversy between the construction company and
the mortgage trustees, and we held that, as the railroad company was not interested in that dispute, it was to be treated as
a nominal pafty only. It stood indifferent between the two
real parties. No decree was asked against it, and the rights of
the parties who were really contending could be fully settled
without its presence.
So in Pace Jailroaclv. .etcl2um, 101 U. S. 289, 298, we
held that the trustees of a mortgage, which was being foreclosed
at the suit of bondliolders, might properly be arranged on the
same side of the controversy about the foreclosure with the
complainants, although they were nominally defendants, because there was no antagonism between them and the complainants, and no relief was asked against them. Here, however, relief is asked against Wiswall, and it grows directly out
of the subject matter of the action, to wit, the collection of the
mortgage debt which Wiswall owes jointly with the other
debtors.

It follows that, as Wiswall was a citizen of the same State
with-the complainants, the suit was not removable under the
first clause of ยง 2 of the act of 1875. All the parties on one
side of the controversy were not citizens of different States from
those on the other. Removal Cases, &'upra.
It remains to consider whether it was removable under the
second clause, on the ground that there was in the suit "a controversy which is wholly between citizens of different States,
and which can be fully determined as between them." The
petition for removal was framed to meet this provision of the
statute. What we have already said applies equally well to
this branch of the case. The rule is now well established that
this clause in the section refers only to suits where there exists
"a separate and distinct cause of action, on which a separate
and distinct suit might have been brought and complete relief
afforded as to such cause of action, with all the parties on one
side of that controversy citizens of different States from those,

GREAT WESTERN INS. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

193

Statement of Facts.
on the other. To say the least, the case must be one capable of
separation" into patts, so that, in one of the parts, a controversy
will be presented with citizens of one or more States on one side
and citizens of other States on the other, which can be fully de-,
termined without the presence of the other parties to the suit
as it has been begun." Frazer v. Jennison, 106 U. S. 191,194.
As has already been seen, this is not such a case. There is here
but one cause of action. The personal decree .which is asked
against Wiswall is incident to the main purpose of the suit. It
presents no separate cause of action. The fact that separate
answers were filed which raised separate issues in defending
against the one cause of action, does not create separate controversies within the meaning of that term as used in the statute.
They simply present different questions to be settled in determining the rights of the parties in respect to the one cause -of
action for which the suit was brought. Hyde v...guble, 104
U. S. 407; Mvnc hester v. Zoud, 108 U. S. 130; Shainwald v.
Leuwis 108 U. S. .158.
It follows that the suit was properly remanded, and the order
of the Circuit Court to that effect is consequently

Aflrned.

GREAT WESTERN INSURA'NCE COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
PAULSON, Receiver, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued October 14, 15, 184.-Decided November 10, 1884.

A claim against the United States for a part of the money received from Great
Britain in payment of the award made at Geneva under the Treaty of
Washington, is both a claim growing out of a treaty stipulation and a
claim dependent upon such stipulation, and is excluded from the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims by ยง 1066 ReV. Stat.

These were suits against the United States to recoveD portions of the Geneva award. The insurance company sued on
Vol. cx -13

