OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

Kinter v. Jenks, 43 Penn. St. 445 ; (07sev. Ii'in,87 Penn.
St. 286; Barows v. Zindred, 4 Wall. 399, and .erymnan v.
Bourne, 9 Wall. 592.
The special verdict in the former action in the Circuit Court
had no greater effect than a general verdict, and could not,
consistently with the statute, be held to be of itself conclusive
upon the general question of title, or upon any question necessarily involved in the determination of that title.
The verdict and judgment in the former action in the Court
of Common Pleas were incompetent evidence under the statute,
because, as the bill of exceptions in the present case shows,
they did not pass upon the question whether Eliza Ann had an
indefeasible title in the land, but only upon the point that her
husband had a title by the curtesy therein, whether her title
was defeasible or indefeasible. - In Pennsylvania, birth of issue
is, not necessary to create an estate by the curtesy. Purdon's
Digest, 806, ยง 4; Tnornton v. _repvs, 37 Penn. St. 391.
Judgment caffined.

CHEW HEO1NG v. UNITED STATES.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued October 30,1884.-Decided December 8, 1884.
The fourth section of the act of Congress, approved May 6, 1882, ch. 126, as
amended by the act of July 5, 1884, ch. 120, prescribing the certificate
which shall be produced by a Chines laborer as the "only evidence permissible to establish his right of re-entry" into the United States, is not appicabie to Chinese laborers who, residing in this country at the date of the
treaty of November 17,1880, departed by sea before May 6, 1882, and remainedi out of the United States until after July 5, 1884.
The rule re-affirmed that repeals of statutes by implication are not favored,
and are never admitted where the former can stand with the new act.
Courts uniformly refuse to give to statutes a retrospective operation, whereby
rights previously vested are injuriously affected, unless compelled to do so
by language so clear and positive as to leave no room t6 doubt that such
was the intention of the legislature.

Chew Heong, a Chinese laborer, arrived in the United States

CHEW HEOING v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

'November 1r, 1880, remained in the country until June, 1881,
departed ,then for .Eonolulu, where he remained until September, 1884, when he returned to the United States. During the
period of his absence the Chinese restriction acts of May 6,
1882, 22 Stat. 58, and July 5, 1884, 23 Stat. 115, were enacted.
As he had no certificate as required by those acts, the authorities of the United States did not permit him to land. Being
detained upon the vessel in the harbor of San Francisco, he
filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of California his petition for a, writ of habeas corpus, alleging
that he was unlawfully deprived of his liberty on the steamship, as he did not come within the restrictions of the statutes.
Mr. Justice Sawyer ordered the writ to issue. On the hearing before Mr. Justice Field and Judge Sawyer, there being a
division of opinion, the writ was discharged and the petitioner
remanded, and a certificate was entered of division of opinion
on the following questions:
1. Whether the provisions of section (four) 4 of the "Act to
execute certain.treaty stipulatiops relating to Chinese," approved May 6, 1882, as amended by the act approved July 5,
1884, prescribing the certificate which shall be produced by
Chinese laborers as the "only evidence permissible to establish
a right of reentry" into the United States, are applicable to
Chinese laborers who were residing in the United States on
November 17, 1880, and who departed from the United States
by sea prior to May 6, 1882, and remained out of the United
States till after July 5, 1884?
r
2. Whether upon the reccrd and facts herein set forth and
stated the petitioner is entitled to re-enter the United States
and to land from said steamship under the provisions of the
said amended restriction act?
3. Whether a Chinese laborer who was residing in the
United States on November 17, 1880, and departed from the
United States by sea before May 6, 1882, remaining out of the
United States till after July 5, 1884, is entitled to re-enter the
United States by steamship and to land therefrom without producing to the collector the certificate prescribed by section four
of the said restriction act, as amended July 5, 1884?

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

This writ of error was sued out by the petitioner.
The treaties and statutes upon which the petitioner's contention was founded are so fully set forth in the opinion, that it is
only necessary to refer to it.
.I-.. arvey S. Brown and .r. Thomas -D.Riordan for the
petitioner.
.r. Assistant Attoney-General .Maury opposing.
iMR. JUSTICE HAnLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us upon a certificate of division in
opinion upon 'questions that require a construction of the act of
Congress approved Mlay 6, 1882, ch. 126, 22 Stat. 58, entitled
"An Act to execute certain treaty stipulations relating to
Chinese,"-commonly known as the Chinese restriction actand of the act amendatory thereof, approved July 5, 1884, ch.
220, 23 Stat. 115.
The facts deemed important in the consideration of these
questions, and as to which there is no dispute, are these: The
plaintiff in error, Chew ileong, is a subject of the Emperor of
China, and a Chinese laborer. He resided in this country on
the 17th of November, 1880, on which day commissioners
plenipotentiary, upon the part of the United States and China,
concluded, at Peking, a treaty containing articles in modification of former treaties between the same countries. 22 Stat.
826. He departed from the United States for Honolulu, in
the Hawaiian Kingdom, on the 18th of June, 1881, and remained there until September 15, 1884, when he took passage
on an American vessel bound for the port of San Francisco.
Arriving at that port on September 22, 1884, his request to be
permitted to leave the vessel was denied, and he was detained
on board, under the claim that the act of Congress of -May 6,
1882, as amended, forbade him to land within the United
States. He was thereupon brought before the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of California upon a writ of
habeas corpus. The United States Attorney for that District,
who was permitted to intervene in behalf of the government,
objected to his discharge, and asked that such orders be made

CHEW HEONG v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

as would effect his removal from the country. It was held
that he was not entitled to re-enter-or to remain in the United
States, and must be deported to the place whence he came, to
wit, Honolulu.
The questions certified involve the inquiry, whether ยง 4 of
the act approved May 6, 1882, as amended by that of July.5,
1884, prescribing the certificate which shall be produced by a
Chinese laborer as the "only evidence permissible to establish
his right of reentry" into the United States, is applicable to
Chinese laborers who, residing in this country on November
11', 1880, departed by sea prior to May 6, 1882, and remained
out of the United States till after July 5,1884.'
In behalf of the plaintiff in error it is contended that he left
for Honolulu with the right secured by treaty to re-enter the)
United States at his pleasure, subject only to such regulations
and restrictions as did not substantially affect his enjoyment of
that right; that this privilege does not depend upon his having
procured, before he left the United States in 1881, a collector's
certificate for which the law, at that time, made uo provision;
and, consequently, that his right to return, if questioned, must
be determined by such evidence as is competent under the
general principles of law.
The contention on behalf of the government is, that his
admission into this country, upon evidence other than the certificate prescribed by the act of 1884, would be inconsistent
with the intention of Congress as manifested by the language
of both the original and amendatory acts.
Ifi as claimed by plaintiff in error, the treaty of 1880, fairly
interpreted, secured to him, at the time of his departure for
Honolulu, the right to go from and return to the United States
at pleasure, without being subjected to regulations or conditions
affecting the substance of that right, the court should be slow
to assume that Congress intended to violate the stipulations of
a treaty, so recently made with the &overnment of another
country. "There would no longer be any security," says Vattel, "no longer any commerce between mankind, if they did
not think themselves obliged to keep faith with each other, and
to perform their promises." Vattel, Book 2, ch. 12. And as

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

sovereign nations, acknowledging no superior, cannot be compelled to accept any interpretation, however just and reasonable, "the faith of treaties constitutes in this respect all the
security of contracting powers." Ib. ch. 17. -" Treaties of
every kind," says Kent, "are to receive a fair and liberal interpretation, according to the intention of the contracting parties, and are to be kept in the most scrupulous good faith." 1
Kent Com. 174. A treaty that operates of itself without the
aid of legislation is equivalent to an act of Congress, and while
in force constitutes a part of the supreme law of the land.
Foster v. Yeilson, 2 Pet. 253, 314. Aside from the duty imposed by the Constitution to respect treaty stipulations when
they become the subject of judicial proceedings, the court cannot be unmindful of the fact, that the honor of the government
and people of the United States is involved in every inquiry
whether rights secured by such stipulations shall be recognized
and protected. And it would be wanting in proper respect for
the intelligence and patriotism of a co-ordinate department of
the government were it to doubt, for a moment, that these
considerations were present in the minds of its members when
the legislation in question was enacted.
With these observations, we proceed to consider whether the
right claimed by the plaintiff is secured by treaty, and, if so,
whether its recognition is inconsistent with the before-mentioned acts of Congress.
Before referring to the treaty of 1880, it will be well to ascertain, from those previously concluded between the United
States and China, what were the relations of trade and commerce existing between their respective peoples. By the treaty
of peace, amity, and commerce, concluded in 1858, citizens of
the United States, in China, peaceably attending to their affairs,
were placed on a common footing of amity and good will with
subjects of the latter country; entitled to receive and enjoy,
for themselves and everything pertaining to them, the protection of the local authorities of government, who were required
to defend them from insult or ifjury of any sort; those residing or sojourning at any of the ports open to foreign commerce
were permitted to rent houses and places of business, or hire

CHEW UEONG vo.UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

sites on which they could themselves build houses, hospitals,
churches and cemeteries; to frequent certain designated ports
and cities, and any other port or place thereafter, by treaty
with other powers or with the United States, opened to commerce; to reside with their families and trade at such places,
and to proceed at pleasure with their vessels and merchandise
to and from said ports or any of them; at each of said ports
open to commerce, to import from abroad, and to sell, purchase
and export, all merchandise of which the importation or exportation Was not prohibited by the laws of China, subject to
no higher duties than those paid by the most favored nation.
By that treaty, also, any right, privilege or favor, connected
either with navigation, commerce, political or other intercourse,
thereafter granted by China to the citizens of any nation, was
at once to freely inure to the benefit of the United States, its
public officers, merchants, and citizens. 12 Stat. 1025, et seq.
In the treaty concluded July 2S, 1868, the governments of
the United States and China recognized "the inherent and inalienable right of man to change his home and allegiance, and
also the mutual advantage of free migration and emigration of
their citizens and subjects, respectively, from one country to
the other, for purposes of curiosity, of trade, or as permanent
residents." They, therefore, joined in reprobating any other
than an entirely voluntary emigration for those purposes. By
that treaty it was, also, provided, that citizens of the United
States visiting or residing in China, and Chinese subjects visiting or residing in the United States, should enjoy the same
privileges, immunities, or exemptions, in respect of travel or
residence, and in respect of public educational institutions, as
should be accorded to the most favored nation in the country
in which they should be respectively visiting or residing. 16
Stat. 739.
This brings us to the treaty concluded November 17, 1880,
which refers to~the prior treaties of 1858 and 1868. To that
treaty the Senate gave its assent on May 5, 1881, and it was
ratified by the President on the 9th of May, 1881. Its first
three articles are as follows:
"ARTicLE 1. Whenever, in the opinion of the government of

54"2

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States, the coming of Chinese laborers to the United
States, or their residence therein, affects or threatens to affect
the interests of that country, or to endanger the good order of
the said country or of any locality within the territory thereof,
the government of China agorees that the government of the
United States may regulate, limit or suspend such coming or
residence, but may not absolutely prohibit it. The limitation
or suspension shall be reasonable and shall apply only to Chinese who may goto the United States as laborers, other classes
not being included in the limitations. Legislation taken in
regard to Chinese laborers will be of such a character only as
isnecessary to enforce the regulation, limitation, or suspension
of immigration, and immigrants shall not be subject to personal
maltreatment or abuse.
"ARTCLE 2. Chinese subjects, whether proceeding to the
United States as teachers, students, merchants, or from curiosity, together with their body and household servants, and
Chinese laborers who are now in the United States shall be
allowed to go and come of their own free will and accord, and
shall be accorded all the rights, privileges, immunities, dnd ememptions which are accorded to the citizens and subjects of
the most'favored nation.
"ARTCLE 3. If Chinese laborers, or Chinese of any other
class, now either permanently or temporarily residing in the
territory of the United States, meet with ill treatment at the
hands of any other persons, the Government of the United
States will exert all its power to devise measures for their protection and to secure to them the same rights, privileges, immunities, and exemptions as may be enjoyed by the citizens or
subjects of the most favored nation, and to which they are
entitled by treaty." 22 Stat. 826, 827.
It appears to the court that there can be no serious difficulty
in ascertaining the object of these modifications of prior treaties. By the treaty of 1868, subjects of China were entitled,'
without restriction, to come to this country foP purposes of
curiosity, or trade, or as permanent residents. But in deference to the opinion of our government that the presence here
of Chinese laborers might be injurious to the public interests,

CHEW HEONG v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

or might endanger good order in our land, China agreed,in
the treaty of 1880, to such modifications of previous treaties as
would enable the United States to regulate, limit or suspend
their coming or residence, without absolutely prohibiting it;
such limitation or suspension to be reasonable in its character.
As to certain classes of Chinese it was distinctly provided that
they should be permitted to go and come of their own -free
will, and be accorded all the rights, privileges, immunities
and exemptions that are granted to citizens and subjects of the
most favored nation. Those classes were: 1. Chinese subjects,
whether proceeding to the United States as teachers, students,
merchants, or from curiosity, together with their body and
household servants; 2. Chinese laborers who were in this country at the date of the treaty. Upon the exercise, by these particular classes, of the rights of free ingress and egress, no limitation in respect of time was imposed by the treaty; in other
words, the enjoyment of the right to go and come was not
made to depend upon how often they went out of the country,
nor how long they remained away before returning. That the
plaintiff in error belongs to one of these classes cannot be successfully disputed, since it is certified to us, and the fact must
be so taken, that he is a Chinese laborer who was in this country on the 17th day of November, 1880. He was, therefore,
entitled, by the provisions of the treaty, to return to, and remain in, the United States, unless, after his departure for
Honolulu, Congress withdrew the privilege which the treaty
secured, and thereby precluded any recognition. of it by the
judiciary of this country. Whether such has been te effect
of its legislation is the subject of our next inquiry.
The act of 1882, as amended, being too long for insertion,
here, has been printed in the margin* and in such way as to
* CHINESE RESTRICTION ACT.
ANq ACT

TO EXECUTE CERTAIN TREATY STIPULATIONS RELATNG TO CHINESE,

ApPRovED

WAY 6ft,

1882, As AmrNDED JULY 5TH, 1884.

in the opinion of the Government of the United States, the coming of Chinese laborers to this country endangers the good order of certain localities within the territories thereof ; Threfore,
WHEREAS,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

indicate the additions and alterations made by the act of 1884.
The words in italics were introduced by the latter act, while
those in brackets were in the original, and were stricken out by
the amendatory tct.

This legislation was enacted in execution of the treaty, and
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled:
SEC. 1. That from and after the [expiration of ninety days next after the]
passage of this act, and until the expiration of ten years next after the passage
of this act, the coming of Chinese laborers to the United States be, and the
same is hereby, suspended ; and during such suspension, it shall not be lawful
for any Chinese laborer to come from any foreign port or place, or having so
come [after the expiration of said ninety days] to remain within the United
States.
SEC. ,. That the master of any vessel who shall knowingly bring within the
United States on such vessel, and land, or attcmpt to land, or permit to be
lahded, any Chinese laborer, from any foreign port or place, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars for each and every such Chinese
laborer so brought, and may also be imprisoned for a term not exceeding one
year.
'SEC. 8. That the two foregoing sections shall not apply to Chinese laborers
who were in the United States on the seventeenth day of November, eighteen
hundred and eighty, or who shall have come into the same before the expiration of ninety days next after the passage of the act to which this act is amendatory, [and] nor shall said sections apply to Chinese laborers,who shall produce
to such master before going on board such vessel, and shall produce to the collector of the port in the United States at which such vessel shall Prrive, the
evidence hereinafter in this act required of his being one of the laborers in this
section mentioned ; nor shall the two foregoing sections apply, to the case of
any master whose vessel, being bound to a port not within the United States,
shall come within the jurisdiction of the United States by reason of being in
distress -r in stress of weather, or touching at any port of the United States
on its voyage to any foreign port or place ; Provided, That all Chinese labor
ers brought on such vessel shall not be permitted to land except in case of absolute necessity, and must depart with the vessel on leaving port.
SEC. 4. That for the purpose of properly identifying Chinese laborers who
were in the United States on the seventeenth day of November, eighteen hundred and eighty, or who shall have come into the same before the expiration of
ninety days next after the passage of the act to which chis act is amendatoiy,
and in order to furnish them with the proper evidence of their right to go from
and come to the United States [of their free will and accord] as provided by the
said act and the treaty between the United States and China dated November
seventeenth, eighteen hundred and eighty, the collector of customs of the district from which any such Chinese laborer shall depart from the United States

CHEW IIEONG v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

because, in the opinion of the Government of the United
States. the. coming of Chinese laborers endangered the good
order of certain localities in this country. The first section, as
amended, suspends their coming for ten years, and declares it
to be unlawful for any Chinese laborer to come from any forshall, in person or by deputy, go on board each vessel having on board any
such Chinese laborer, and cleared or about to sail from his district for a foreign
port, and on such vessel make a list of all such Chinqse laborers, which shall
be entered in registry-books, to be kept for that purpose, in which shall be
stated the individ'val, family, and tribal name in full, the age, occupation,
whe and where followed, last place of residence, physical marks or peculiarities, and all facts necessary for the identification of each of such Chinese laborers, which books shall be safely kept in the custom-house ; and every such
Chinese laborer so departing from the United States shall be entitled to and
shall receive, free of any charge or cost upon application therefor, from the
collector or his deputy, in, the 'name of said collector, and attested by said collector's seal of offee, at the time such list is taken, a certificate, signed by the
collector or his deputy and attested by his seal of office, in such form as the
Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe, which certificate shall contain a
statement of the individual,family, and tribal name in full, age, occupation,
when and where followed [last place of residence, personal description and facts
of identification] of the Chinese laborer to whom the certificate is issued, corresponding with the said list and registry in all particulars:' In case any Chinese laborer, after having received such certificate, shall leave such vessel before her departure, he shall deliver his certificate to the master of the vessel ;
and if such Chinese laborer shall fal to return to such vessel before her departure from port, the certificate shall be delivered by the master to the collector
of customs for cancellation. The certificate herein provided for shall entitle
the Chinese laborer to whom the same is issued to return to and re-enter the
United States upon producing and delivering the same to the collector of customs of the district at which such Chiffese laborer shall seek to re-enter, and
said certificate shalt be the only evidence permissible to establish his right of reentry; and upon delivering of such certificate by such Chinese laborer to the
collector of customs at the time of re-entry into the United States, said'collector shall cause the same to be filed in the custom house and duly cancelled.
SEc. 5. That any Chinese laborer mentioned in section four of this act,
being in the United States and desiring to depart from the United. States by
land, shall have the right to demand and receive, free of charge or cost, a certificate of identification similar to that provided for in section four of this act
to be issued to such Chinese laborers as may desire to leave the United States
by water; and it is hereby made the duty of the collector of customd of the
district next adjoining the foreign country to which said Chinese laborer
desires to go to issue such certificate, free of charge or cost, upon application
by such Chinese laborer, and to enter the same upon registry-books to be kept
by him for the purpose, as provided for in section four of this act.
VOL. OxiI-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

eign port or place, or, having so come, to remain within the
United States. The second section, as amended, makes it a
misdemeanor, punishable by fine, or by fine and imprisonment,
for the master of any vessel to knowingly bring within the
United States on such vessel, and land, or attempt to land, or
SEC. 6. That in order to the faithful execution of [articles one and two of
the treaty in] the provisions of this act, [before mentioned], every Chinese
person, other than a laborer, who may be entitled by said treaty [and] or this
act to come within the United States, hnd who shall be about to come to the
United States, shall obtain the permissionof and be identified as so entitled by
the Chinese Government, or of such other foreign government of which at the
time such Chinese person shall be a subject, in each case [such identity] to be
evidenced by a certificate issued [under the authority of said] by such government, which certificate shall be in. the English language [or (if not in the
English language) accompanied by a translation into English, stating such
right to come] and shall show such permission, with the name of the permitted
person in his or her proper signature, and which certificate shall state the
individual, family, and tribal name in full, title or official rank, if any, the
age, height, and all physical peculiarities, former and present occupation or
profession, when and where and how long pursued, and place of residence [in
China] of the person to whom the certificate is issued, and that such person is
entitled [conformably to the treaty in] by this act [mentioned] to come within
the United States. If the person so applying for a certificate shall be a merchant, said certificate shall, in additionto above requirements,state the nature,
characterand estimated value of the business carriedon by him priorto and at
the time of his application as aforesaid; Provided, That nothing in this act
nor in said treaty shall be construed as embracingwithin the meaning of the
word "merchant" hucksters, peddlers, or those engaged in taking, drying or
otherwise preserving shell or other fih for home consumption or exportation.
If the certificatebe sought for the purpose of travel for curiosity, it shall also
state whether the applicant,intends to pass through or travel within the United
States, together with his financial standingin the country from which such
certificate is desired. The certificateprovidedfor in this act, and the identity
of the person named therein shall, before such person goes on board any Vessel
to proceed to the United States, be visid by the indorsementof the diplomatic
representativeof the United States in the foreign country from, which said
certificate issues, or of the consularrepresentativeof the United States of the
port or place from which the person named in the certificate is about to depart;
and sucl, diplomatic representative or consular representative whose indorsement is so required is hereby empowered, and it shall be his duty, before indorsing such certificate as aforesaid, to examine into the truth of the statements set
.forthin said certificate,and if he shallfind upon examination that said or any
of thetatementsthereincoidained are untrue, it shall be his duty to refuse to
inworse the same. 'Such certificate visid as aforesaid shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts set forth therein, and shall be produced to the collector

CHEW HEO1G v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion

the Court.

permit to be landed, any such laborer from any foreign port or
place.
If these sections constituted the entire legislation in reference to the coming to this country of Chinese laborers, the
court, under the established rules for the interpretation of
of customs [or his deputy] of the port in the district of the United States at
which the person named therein shall arrive, and afterwards produced to the
proper authoritiesof the United States whenever lawfully demanded, and shall
be the sole evidence permissible on the pait of the person soproducingthe same,
to establish a right of entry into the United States; but said certificate may be
controverted and the facts therein stated disproved by the United States
authorities.
SEc. 7. That any perso r. -.ho shall knowingly and falsely alter or substitute
any name for the name written in such certificate, or forge any certificate, or
knowingly utter any forged or fraudulent certificate, or falsely personate any
person named in any such certificate, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor; and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in a sum not exceeding
one thousand dollars, and imprisoned in the penitentiary for a term of not
more than five years.
SEC. 8. That the master of any vessel arriving in the United States from
any foreign port or place, shall, at the same time he delivers a manifest of the
cargo, and if there be no cargo, then at the time of making a report of th(
entry of the vessel pursuant to law, in addition to the other mol*-s required
to be reported, and before landing or permitting to land any Chinese pas
sengers, deliver and report to the collector of customs of the district in wlich
such vessel shall have arrived, a separate list of all Chinese passengers taken
on board of his vessel at any foreign port or place, and all such passengers on
board the vessel at that time. Such list shall show the names of such passengees (and if accredited officers of the Chinese or of any other foreign government, travelling on the business of that government, or their servants, with
'a note of such facts) and the names and other particulars, as shown by their
respective certificates; and such list 'shall be sworn to by the master in the
manner required by law in relation to the manifest of the cargo. Any [willful] refusal or willful neglect of any such. master to comply with the provisions of this section shall incur the same penalties and forfeiture as are
provided for a refusal or neglect to report and deliver a manifest of the cargo.
SEC. 9. That before any Chinese passengers are landed from any such
vessel the collector, or his deputy, shall proceed to examine such passengers,
comparing the certificates with the list and.with the passengers; and no passenger shall be allowed to land in the United States from such vessel in
Violation of law.
SEc. 10. That every vessel whose master shall knowingly violate any of the
provisions of this act shall be deemed forfeited to the United States, and shall
be liable to seizure and condemnation in any district of the United States into
which such vessel may enter or in which she may be found.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

statutes, would hold that they did not apply to Chinese laborers
who, by their residence in the United States at, the date of the
last treaty, had acquired the right to go and come of their own
free will, and to enjoy such privileges, immunities and exemptions as were accorded here to citizens and subjects of the most
SEc. 11. That any person who shall knowingly bring into or cause to be
brought into the United States by land, or who shall [knowingly] aid or abet
the same, or aid or abet the landing in the United States from any vessel, of
any Chinese person not lawfully entitled to enter the United States, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, on conviction thereof, be fined in
a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars, and imprisoned for a term not
exceeding one year.
SEC. 12. That no Chinese person shall be permitted to enter the United
States by'land, without producing to the proper officer of customs the certificate in this act required of Chinese persons seeking to land from a vessel, and
any Chinese person found unlawfully within the United States shall be caused
to be removed therefrom to the country from whence he came [by direction of
the President of the United States], and at the cost of the United States, after
being brought before some justice, judge, or commissioner of a court of the
United States and found to be one not lawfully entitled to be or remain in the
United States; and in all such cases, the person who brought or aided in bringing suchp
person to the United States shall be liable to the government of the
United States for all necessary expenses incurred in, such investigation and
removal; and all peace officers Of the several States and Territories of the
United States are hereby invested with the same authority as a marshal or
United States marshal in reference to carrying out the provisions of this act,
or of the act of which this is amendatory, as a marshal or deputy marshal of
the United States, and shall be entitled to like compensation, to be audited and
paid by the same officers. And the United States shall pay all costs and
chargesfor the maintenance and return of any Chinese persodi having the cer
t)Icate prescribed by law as entitling such, Chinese person to come into the
United States, who may not have been permitted to land from any vessel by
reason of any of the provisions of this act.
SEC. 13. That this act shall not apply to diplomatic and other officers of the
Chinese, or other governments, travelling upon the business of that government, whose credentials shall be taken as equivalent to the certificate in this
act mentioned, and shall exempt them and their body and household servants
from the provisions of this act as to other Chinese persons.
SEC. 14. That hereafter no State court or court of the United States shall
admit Chinese to citizenship; and all laws in conflict 'ith this act are hereby
repealed.
SEC. 15. That tIre provisions of this act shall apply to all subjects of China
and Chinese, whether subjects of China or any other foreign power; and the
words. "Chinese laborers," wherever used in this act, shall be construed to
mean both skilled and unskilled laborers and Chinese employed in mining.

CHEW IIEONG v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

favored nation. For, since the purpose avowed in the act was
to faithfully execute the treaty, any interpretation of its provisions would be rejected which imputed to Congress an intention to disregard the plighted faith of the government, and,
consequently, the court ought, if possible, to adopt that construction which recognized and saved rights secured by the
treaty. The utmost that could be said, in the case supposed,
would be, that there was an apparent conflict between the
mere words of the statute and the treaty, and that, by implication, the latter, so far as the people and the courts of this
country were concerned, was abrogated in respect of that class
of Chinese laborers to whom was secured the right to go and
come at pleasure. But, even in the case of statutes, whose repeal or modification involves no question of good faith with
the government or people of other countries, the' rule is well
settled that repeals by implication are not favored, and are
never admitted where the former can stand with the new act.
Exepo'te Terget, 8 Wall. 85,'105. In Wood v. United S ttes,
16 Pet. 342, 362, Mr. Justice Stbry, speaking for the court upon
a question of the repeal of a statute by implication, said: "That
it has not been expressly or by direct terms repealed is admitted; and the question resolves itself into the narrow inquiry, whether it has been repealed by necessary implication.
We say by necessary implication, for it is not sufficient to establish that subsequent laws cover some, or even all, of the
cases provided for by it, for they may be merely affirmative,
or cumulative, or auxiliary. But there must be a positive repugnancy between the provisions of the new laws and those of
the old, and even then the old law is repealed by implication
onlyprpo tanto, to the extent of the repugnancy." In State v.
SEC. 16. That any vioWation of any of the provisions of this act, or of the act
of which tkis is amendatory, the punishment of which is not otherwise herein
providedfor, shall be deemed a misdemeanor, and shall be punihable by a fine
not exceeding one thousand dollars, or by imprisonment for not more than one
year, or both, such fine and imprisonment.
SEC. 17. That nothing contained in this act shall be construed to affect any
prosecution or other proceeding, criminalor civil, begun,*nder the act of which
this is amendatory; but such prosecutionor otherproceeding,criminal or civil,
shall proceed as if this act had not been passed.

OCTOBER TEAM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Stoll, 17 Wall. 425, 430, the language of the court was, that

"it must appear that the later provision is certainly and clearly
in hostility to the former. If, by any reasonable construction,
the two statutes can stand together, they must so stand. If
harmony is impossible, and only in that event, the former law
is repealed in part, or wholly, as the case may be." See also
x.parte Crow -Dog,109 U. S. 556, 570; -Arthurv. Homer, 96
U. S. 137, 140; Harfordv. United States, 8 Cranch, 109.
When the act of 1882 was passed, Congress was aware of
the obligation this government had recently assumed, by
solemn treaty, to accord to a certain class of Chinese laborers
the privilege of going from and coming to this country at their
pleasure. Did it intend, within less than a year after the ratification of the treaty, and without so declaring in unmistakable terms, to withdraw that privilege by the general words of
the first and second sections of that act ? Did it intend to do
what would be inconsistent with the inviolable fidelity with
which, according to the established rules of international law,
the stipulations of treaties should be observed?, These questions must receive a negative answer. The presumption must
be indulged that the broad language of these sections was intended to apply to those Chinese laborers whose coming to
this country might, consistently with the treaty, be reasonably
regulated, limited or suspended, and not to those who, by the
express words of the same treaty, were entitled to go and come
of their own free will, and enjoy such privileges and immunities as were accorded to the citizens and subjects of the most
favored nation.
These views find strong support in the third and fourth sections of the act.
The third section, as it originally stood, declared "that the
two foregoing sections shall not apply to Chinese laborers who
were in the United States on the seventeenth day of November,
eighteen hundred and eighty, or who shall have come into the
same before the expiration of ninety days next after the passage of this act, and who shall produce to such master before
going on board such vessel, and shall produc6 to the collector of the port in the United States at which such vessel

CHEW

EONG v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

shall arrive, the evidence hereinafter in this act required, of his
being one of the laborers in this section mentioned." It is
contended that provision was made in this clause only for
Chinese laborers, of the two classes described, who should produce the certificate of identification required by the fourth section of the act; leaving those who could not produce it to rest
under the prohibitions of the preceding sections. But that
construction is wholly inadmissible; for, apart from a violation
of the treaty of 1880, which is involved in such a construction,
it is inconceivable that Congress would have announced its
purpose not to include in the suspension for ten years Chinese
laborers who might come into the United States within ninety
days immediately after the passage of the act of 18S2, and, in
the same act, have prohibited their entering this country unless
they should produce a certificate which could have been furnished only to those who were here at the passage of that act,
and left after it took effect.
But all basis for such a construction is removed by the
amendment made in the third section by the act of 1884. The
above clause as amended reads thus: "That the two f6regoing
sections shall not apply to Chinese laborers who were in the
United States on the seventeenth day of November, eighteen
hundred and eighty, or who shall have come into the same before the expiration of ninety days after the passage of the act
to which this act is amendatory, nor shall said sections apply
to Chinese laborers who shall produce to such master, &c., the
evidence hereinafter in this act required," &c.
The striking out of the word "and," in the third section of
the original act, and inserting the words "nor shall said sections apply fo Chinese laborers," are very significant. As
amended, the third section wholly precludes the idea that the
right to return to this country of those who were. here at the
date of the treaty, but were abscnt when Congress legislated
upon the subject of Chinese immigration, was to be encumbered
with the condition, impossible to be performed, of producing a
collector's certificate; for that section. as it stands, declares,
without qualification, that the first and second sections shall
not apply to those who were here at the date -of the treaty.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

If a Chinese laborer who was here at the date of the treaty,
and also when the act of 1882 was passed, d~sired again to
leave the country, his right to return was made to depend upon
his producing the certificate required by that act. And this
was true, also, of a Chinese laborer, not here at the date of the
treaty, who, having come within ninety days next after the
original act was passed, desired to depart from the United
States and return at some subsequent period.
Coming to the fourth section of the act, we find evidence of
the most cogent nature of the intention of Congress not to
disregard that treaty.
As it stood in the act of 1882, it was in these words:
"That for the purpose of properly identifying Chinese laborers who were in the United States on the seventeenth day of
November, eighteen hundred and eighty, or who shall have
come into the same before the. expiration of ninety days next
after the passage of this act, and in order to furnish them with
the proper evidence of their right to go from and come to the
United States of their free will and accord, as provided by the
treaty between the United States and China, dated November
seventeenth, eighteen hundred and eighty, the collector of customs of the district from which any such Chinese labor6r shall
depart from the United States shall, in person or by deputy, go
on board each vessel having on board any such Chinese laborer,
and cleared or about to sail from his district for a foreign port,
and on such vessel make a list of all such Chinese laborers,
which shall be entered in registry-books, to be kept for that
purpose, in which shall be stated the name, age, occupation,
last place, of residence, physical marks or peculiarities, and all
facts necessary for the identification of each of such Chinese
laborers, which books shall be safely kept in the custom house;
and every such Chinese laborer so departing from the United
States shall be entitled to, and shall receive, free of any charge
or cost, upon application therefor, from the collector or his
deputy, at the time such list is taken, a certificate, signed by
the collector or his deputy, and ttested by his seal of office, in
such form as the Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe,
which certificate shall contain a statement of the name, age,

CHEW IIEONG v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

occupation, last place of residence, personal description, and
facts of identification of the Chinese laborer to whom the
certificate is issued, corresponding with the said lst and registry
in all particulars. In case any Chinese laborer, after having
received such certificate, shall leave such vessel before her departure, he shall deliver his certificate to the master of the vessel, and if such Chinese laborer shall fail to return to such vessel" before her departure from port, the certificate shall be
delivered by the master to the collector of customs for cancellation. The certificate herein provided for shall entitle the
Chinese laborer to whom the same is issued to return to and
re-enter the United States upon producing and delivering the
same to the collector of customs of the district at which such
Chinese laborer shall seek to re-enter; and upon delivery of
such certificate by such Chinese laborer to the collector of customs at the time of re-entry in the United States, said collector
shall cause the same to be filed in the custom house and duly
cancelled."
This section was aiiiended by the act of 1884 so as to require that the list made by the collector or his deputy, and entered in the registry-books kept.Ior that purpose, as well as the
certificate issued by the collector to any Chinese laborer about
to depart by vessel, should show-what the original act did not
require--his individual, family and tribal name in full, and
when and where his occupation was followed. It was further
amended so as to provide, in terms, that the certificate furnished
to such laborer by the collector "shall be the only evidence
permissible to establish his right of re-entry."
In that section, as in the third, a certain class of Chinese
laborers is described as those who were here on the 11th of
November, 1880. Why was that date fixed, unless for the
purpose of giving effect to the article of the treaty, which
secured to Chinese laborers, who were in this country on that
particular day, the same freedom, in respect of travel and intercourse, that was accorded to the citizens and subjects of the
most favored nation? Congress certainly did not overlook,
much less intend to ignore, the stipulations of the treaty, or
question their scope or effect; for the fourth section, referring

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

to Chinese laborers who were here on the seventeenth day of
November, eighteen hundred and eighty, expressly recognizes
the fact that the treaty of that date gave them "the right to
go from and come to the United States."
Now, the argument in' behalf of the government is, that,
since Congress made provision for certificates to be furnished
to those who were entitled to demand them, it did not intend
t6 recognize the right to return 6f any Chinese laborer who,
being in the United States at the date of the treaty, was not
here when the act of 1882 was passed. Assuming, always,
that there was a purpose, in good faith, to abide by the stipulations of the treaty, this argument necessarily implies, that, in
the judgment of Congress, the treaty did not secure to any
Chinese laborer the right df going and coming of his own free
will, except to those in this country at the date of the treaty,
who remained here continuously until the original act was
passed, or who had returned by the latter date; in other words,
that a Chinese laborer who was here on the 17th of November,
1880, lost the right to return, so far as that right was secured
by treaty, if he left at any time-no matter for what purpose
or for how brief a period-prior to, and had not returned before, the passage of the act of 1882.
But the treaty is not subject to any such interpretation. To
gie it that interpretation would be, in effect, to interpolate in
its second article, after the words "Chinese laborers who are
now in the United States," the words "and who shall continue
to reside therein." The plaintiff in error left this country after
the ratification of the treaty, having the right, secured by its
articles, to return, of his own free will, without being subjected
to burdens or regulations that materially interfere with its enjoyment. The legislative enactments in question should receive
such a construction, if possible, as will save that right, while
giving full effect to the intention of Congress. That result can
be attained, consistently with recognized rules of interpretation. Lex non intendit aliquidirapossibileis a familiar maxim
of the law. The supposition should not be indulged that Conoess, while piofessing to faithfully execute treaty stipulations,
and recognizing the fact that they secured to a certain class

CHEW HEONG v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the "right to go from and come to the United States," intended
to make its protection depend upon the performance of conditions which it was physically impossible to perform. Besides,
said this court in United States v. Hirby, 7 Wall. 482, 486,
"General terms should be so limited in their application as not to lead to injustice, oppression, or an absurd consequence. It
will always, therefore, be presumed that the legislature intended exceptions to its language which would avoid results of
this character. The reason of the law in such cases should
prevail over its letter." See also Carliske v. United States, 16
Wall. 147, 153. So in Perryv. Sk-inner, 2 AL & W. 471, it
was said: "The rule by which we are to be guided is to look
at the precise words, and to construe them in their ordinary
sense, unless it would lead to absurdity or manifest injustice;
and if it should, so to vary them as to avoid that which certainly could not have been the intention of the legislatute. We
must put a reasonable construction upon their words." Lake
ho'e 1ailvway Co. v. Roack, 80 N. Y. 339; Commonwealth
v. .Ailnball, 24 Pick. 366, 370 ; -Campbels Case, 2 Bland, 209 ;
Sedgwick Statutory and Constitutional Law, 191. What injustice could be more marked than, by legislative enactment,
to recognize the existence of a right by treaty, to come within
the limits of the United States and, at the same time, to prescribe, as the only evidence permissible to establish it, the
possession of a collector's certificate, that could not possibly
have been obtained by the person to whom the right belongs?
Or to prevent the re-entry of a person into the United States
upon the ground that he did not, upon his arrival from a foreign port, produce a certain ceitificate, under the hand and
seal of a collector, and upon forms prescribed by the Secretary
of the Treasury, which neither that nor any other officer was
authorized or permitted to give prior to the departure of such
person from this country? Or what incongruity ik more evident than to impose upon a collector the duty of going on
board of a vessel, about to sa;l from his district for a foreign
port, and making and recordag a list of its passengers, of a
particular race, showing theisr individual, family, and tribal
names in full, their age, occupation, last place of residence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

physical marks and peculiarities; when such vessel had sailed
long before the law passed which imposed that duty on the
collector ? These questions suggest the consequences that
mnst result, if it is held that Congress intended to abrogate
the treaty with China, by imposing conditions upon the enjoyment of rights secured by it, which are impossible of performance.
But there is another view which tends to show the unsoundness of the construction upon which the government insists.
It is this: If Chinese laborers who were here at the date of
the treaty, or who came within ninety days next after the
passage of the act of 1882, being out of the country when the
act of 1884: was passed, can re-enter only upon producing the
certificate required by the latter act, then Congress -must have
intended to exclude even those who were in this country at the
time the act of 1882 was passed, and who, upon going away,
received the certificate mentioned in it; for the certificate
prescribed by the act of 1882 is not the certificate prescribed
by that of 188I4; they differ in several particulars; and yet, if
the act of 1884 is to be taken literally, all Chinese laborers are
excluded who do not produce~the very certificate mentioned in
it. The original act expressly provides that the. certificate
prescribed therein "shall entitle the Chinese laborer to whom
the same is issued to' return to and re-enter the United States,
upon producing and delivering the same" to the collector of
the district at which he seeks to re-enter. Congress did not
intend, by. indirection, to withdraw from those who received.
and relied upon the certificate mentioned in that act the privilege of returning, simply because they did not (and could not)
produce the certificate required by the amendatory act, passed
during their rightful absence. Those who left the country
with certificaes under the original act were entitled to return
upon the production of those certificates. If, then, the act of
1884 did not defeat the rights given by that of 1882, it follows
that there 4re Chinese laborers who, having been in the United
States prior to -July 5, 1884, may re-enter without producing
the certificate required -,y the art of the latter date; and so
the argument that Congress intended to exclude from the

CHEW HEONG v. UNITED STATES.

557 "

Opinion of the Court.

country Chinese laborers of every class who did not produce
the certificate prescribed by the act of 1884, fails in respects
essential to sustain the judgment below. A construction of
the original and amendatory acts which saves the rights of the
plaintiff in error rests upon peecisely thasame grounds as does
a construction of the amendatory act which saves the rights of
those obtaining certificates under the original act, who did not
seek to re-enter the country until after the act of 188-4 was
passed.
There are other sections of the act of Congress upon which,
it was suggested in argument, the judgment below could be
sustained. Some stress is laid upon the fifth section, which
provides that "any Chinese laborer mentioned in section four
of this act, being in the United States and desiring to depart
from the United States by land, shall have the rightto demand
and receive, free of charge or cost, a certificate of identification
similar to that, provided for in section four of this act to be
issued to such Chinese laborers as may desire to leave the
United States by water; and it is hereby made the duty of
the collector of customs of the district next adjoining the
foreign country to which said Chinese laborer desires to go, to
issue such certificate, free of charge or cost, upon application
by such Chinese laborer, and to enter the same upon registrybooks to be kept by him for the purpose, as provided for in
section four of this act."
The argument, based upon this section, is, that the phrase
"being in the United States" indicates a purpose to exclude
all Chinese laborers not in the United States at the date of the
original act. In our judgment, that phrase throws light upon
the true meaning of the fourth section, in this-that, as the
fifth section prescribed a certificate for those "being in the
United States " who desired to depart by land, so the fourth
section prescribed a certificate for those being in the United
States who desired to depart by water. In each case, the
provision is for those who are rightfully here, and, therefore,
have an opportunity to demaild and receive the required certificate, and not for those who are protected by the treaty, but
who, being absent from the country, when the law was enacted

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the- Court.

making provisio for a collector's certificate, could not demand
and receive it. Neither section purports to defeat previously
existing rights by imposing conditions upon their enjoyment
which cannot be satisfied.
It is also said, in support of the 'judgment, that the sixth
section is significant, in that it prescribes the mode for th6
coming to this country of Chinese persons, "other than a
laborer who may be entitled by said treaty and this act to
come within the. United States," but fails to provide the means
for the return and identification of Chinese laborers who were
entitled by the treaty to return, but who were out of the
country when the act of Congress was passed. But this argument., like the one just alluded to, only proves that Congress,
while making provision for the coming of persons who were
entitled to come, other than laborers, omitted to make special
provision in reference to the latter, and, consequently, left
them to stand upon their rights as secured y the treaty, and,
if their right to enter the United States was questioned, to
prove in some way, consistent with the general principles
of law, that they belonged to the class entitled to go and
come.
Some reliance was also placed upon the implication arising
from that clause of the twelfth section which declares that
"no Chinese person shall be permitted to entei" the United
States by land, without producing to the proper officer of
customs the certificate in this act required of Chinese persons
seeking to land fTom a vessel." We do not perceive that any
argument based upon these words meets the view that the act
of Congress, in respect of Chinese laborers entitled to go and
,come, is inapplicable to those who were here at the date of the
treaty, but, by reason of absence when the act of Congress
took effect, could not obtain the required certificate. If, however, the twelfth section should be held to forbid the entrance
of Chinese persons of every class inzto this country, by land,
except upon the certificate reqvired by the fourth section, it
would not follow that a Chinese laborer entitled by the treaty
to go and come at pleasure, and who was out vr the country
when the act of Congress *was passed, could not re-enter by

CHEW HEONG v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

vessel, upon satisfactory evidence of his being here at the date
of the treaty.
The entire argument in support of the judgment below proceeds upon the erroneous assumption that Congress intended
to exclude all Chinese laborers of every class who were not in
the United States at the time of the passage of the act of 1882,including those who, like the. plaintiff in error, were here when
the last treaty was concluded, but were absent at the date of
the passage of that act. We have stated the main reasons which, in our opinion, forbid that interpretation of the act of
Congress. To these may be added the further one, that the
courts uniformly refuse to give to statutes a retrospective operation, whereby rights previously vested are injuriouslyaffected,
unless compelled to do so by language so clear and positive as
to leave no room to doubt that such was the intention of the
legislature. -i United States v. Heth, 3 Cranch, 398, 413, this
court said, that "words in a statute ought not to have a retrospective operation unless they are -so clear, strong and imperative that no other meaning can be annexed to them, or unless
the intention of the legislature cannot be otherwise satisfied;'
and such is the settled doctrine of this court. 3 uray v. Gibson, 15 Row.. 421, 423; oEwenr v. Den, 24 How. 242, 244;
Harvey v. Tyer, 2 Wall. 328, 347; Sohn v. lMaterson, 17 Wall.
596, 599; Twenty Per Cent. Cases, 20 Wall. 179, 187. So far
from the court being compelled, by the language of the act of
Congress, to give it a retrospective operation, the plain, natural
and obvious meaning of the words-interpreted with reference
to the general scope and the declared purpose of the statuteutterly forbids the conclusion that there was any intention to impair or destroy rights previously granted. The Chinese laborer
who, under the act of 1882, was entitled to return and re-enter
the United States upon producing the certificate therein prescribed, and the Chinese laborer who, after the act of 1884 was
passed, could re-enter the country only upon producing the certificate required by the 'latter act, is described as one "to whom
the same is issued." It would be a perversion of the language
used to hold that such regulations apply to Chinese laborers
who had left the country with the privilege, secured b3 treaty,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

of returning, but who, by reason of their absence when those
legislative enactments took effect, could not obtain the required
certificates. Statutory provisions which declare that a certificate shall be evidence, or the only evidence,-of the right of the
person "to whom it is issued" to re-enter the United States,
cannot, upon any sound rule of interpretation, be held to apply to one to whom it could not have been issued. A Chinese
laborer, to whom a certificate was issued under the.-original
act, is entitled to re-enter only upon producing that certificate;
one, to whom a certificate was -issued under the act of 1884, is
entit qd to re-elnte only upon producing such certificate; while
the plakatiff in error, having left before any certificate was permitted to be issued, cannot be required to produce one before
re-entering, because, having resided here on the 17th day of
November, 1880, he was clearly entitled, under the express
words of the treaty, to go from and return to the United States
of his own free will-a privilege that would be destroyed, if'its
enjoyment depended upon a condition impossible to be performed. The recognition of that privilege is entirely consistent with existing legislation; for, by construing the original
and amendatory acts, so far as they require the production of
a collector's certificate by Chinese laborers who were in the
United States on the 17th of November, 1880, as applicable
only to those of that class who were here at the dates wh~n
those acts, respectively, took effect, no previously .acquired
rights are violated, and full effect is given to the expressed
intention of Congress to faithfully meet our treaty obligations.
Thus, the legislation of Congress and the stipulations of the
treaty may stand together.
In accordance with these views, it is adjudged that the plaintiff in error is entitled to enter and remain in the United States.
The first of the certified questions is, therefore, answered in the
negative, an4 the second and third in the affirmative.
Te judgment is reversed and the cause rereandedfor furtherproceedingsnot inconsistent with this tpinion.
JusmoE FrEra dissenting.
I am unable to agree with my associates in their construction
Ymi.

CHEW HEONG v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

of the act of May 6, 1882, as amended by the act of July 5,
1884, restricting the immigration into this country of Chinese
laborers. That construction appears to me to be in conflict
with the language of the act, and to require the elimination of
entire clauses and the interpolation of new ones. It renders
nugatory whole provisions which were inserted with sedulous
eare. -TJie change thus produced in the operation of the act is
justified on the thheoay
t to -g--it -yother -eonstbyution
would bring it into conflict with the treaty; and that we are
not at liberty to suppose that Congress intended by its legislation to disregard any treaty stipulations.
The circuit judge, in his opinion, assumes that the treaty of
1880 allows Chinese laborers, then in the United States, freedom to depart and return without reference to their subsequent
residence in the country ; and that this freedom is assured to
them whether they afterwards abandon or continue their residence. Proceeding on this assumption, as though it were impregnable, the assertion is made, with great positiveness and
frequent repetition, that the act of Congress, construed according to the natural meaning of its terms, violates that treaty and
our plighted faith; and the enormity of such legislation is
dwelt upon with much warmth of expression. The majority
of this court, adopting a similar construction of the treaty, narrow the meaning of the act so as measurably to frustrate its
intended operation. Whereas, if. the treaty as to such laborers
be construed, as I think it should be, to apply to those then
here who afterwards continue their residence in the country,
and who may, during such residence, desire to be temporarily
absent, there is no conflict between it and the act of Congress.
Both are then in perfect harmony, thb imputation of bad faith
is without a plausible pretext, and the citations in the opinion
of the circuit judge, and of this court, as to the necessity of
construing acts so as nof to lead to injustice, oppression or
absurd consequences, have no application.
The petitioner, a native of China; and a laborer, though here
when the treaty of 1880 was concluded, left the country in
June, 1881, and was in the Hawaiian Islands over three years
before he desired to return. Chinese laborers do not travel for
VOL. cxu--36

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

pleasure, and during that time he had acquired a residence in
those islands as fully as he ever had in the United States. But,
according to the opinion of the court, this fact is of no significance. He could reside there twenty -years and then return,
notwithstanding the act of Congress. I cannot construe the
treaty as conferring any such unrestricted right, or as applying
to any -other laborers than those who afterwards continued
their residence here.
If, however, the act of Congress be in conflict with the treaty
upon the immigration of Chinese laborers, it must control as
being the last expression of the sovereign will of the country.
And while I agree with all that is said in the opinion of the
court as to the sanctity of the public faith, I must be permitted
to suggest that, if the legislative department sees fit for any
reason to refuse, upon a subject within its control, compliance
with the stipulations of a treaty, or to abr, gate them entirely,
it is not for this court or any other court to call in question
the validity or wisdom of its action, and impute unworthy motives to it. It should be presumed that good and sufficient
reasons controlled and justified its conduct. If the nation with
which the treaty is made objects to the legislation, it may complain to the executive head of our government, and take such
measures as it may deem advisable for its interests. But
whether it has just cause of complaint, or whether, in view of
its action, adverse legislation on our part be or be not justified,
is not a matter for judicial cognizance or consideration. A
treaty is in its nature a contract between two or more nations,
and is so considered by writers on public law; and by the Constitution it is placed on the same footing and made of like
obligation as a law of the United States. Both are declared
in that instrument to be the supreme law of the land, and no
paramount authority is given to either over the other.
Some treaties operate in whole or in part by their own force,
and some require legislation to carry their stipulations into effect. If that legislation impose duties to be discharged in the
future, it may be repealed or modified at the pleasure of Congress. If the treaty relates to a subject within the powers of
Congress and operates by its own force, it can only be regarded

CHEW HFONG v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

by the courts as equivalent to a legislative act. Congress may,
as with an ordinary statute, modify its provisions, or supersede
them altogether. The immigration of foreigners to this
country, and the conditions upon which they shall be pormitted to come or remain, are proper subjects both of legisation
and of treaty stipulation. The power of Congress, however,
over the subject can neither be taken away nor impaired by
any treaty.
As said by 31r. Justice Curtis, in Taylor v. -2forton,2 Curtis,
454, 459: " To refuse to execute a treaty, for reasons which approve themselves to the conscientious judgnent of the nation, is
a matter of the utmost gravity and delicacy; but the power to
do so is prerogative, of which no nation can be deprived without deeply affecting its independence. That the people cf the
United States have deprived their government of this power in
any case, I do not believe. That it musu reside somewhere,
and be applicable to all cases, I am convinced. I feel no doubt
that it belongs to Congress. That, inasmuch as treaties must
continue to operate as part of our municipal law, and be obeyed
by the people, applied by the judiciary and executed by the
President, while they continue iirepealed; and inasmuch as
the power of repealing these municipal laws must reside somewhere, and no body other than Congress possesses it, then legislative power is applicable to such laws whenever they relate
to subjects which the Constitutioii has placed under that legislative power." And the learned justice holds, that whether a
treaty with a foreign sovereign has been violated by him;
whether the consideration of a particular stipulation in a treaty
has been voluntarily withdrawn by one party, so that it is no
longer obligatory on the other; whether the views and acts of
a foreign sovereign have given just occasion to the political departments of our government to withhold the execution of a
promise contained in a treaty, or to act in direct contravention
of such promise, is not a judicial question; that the power w
determine these matters has not been confided to the judiciary,
which has no suitable means to exercise it, but to the executive
and legislative departments of our government; that they belong to diplomacy and legislation, and not to the administration

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

of the laws. And he concludes, as a necessary consequence of
these views, that if the power to determine those matters is
vested in Congress, it is wholly immaterial to inquire whether,
by the act assailed, it has departed from the treaty or not, or
whether such departure were accidental or designed, and if the
latter, whether the reasons therefor were good or bad. As
said by Attorney-General Crittendel, in his opinion furnished
to the head of the Treasury Department respecting claims under
the treaty with Spain ceding Florida, with' which an act of
Congress was supposed to conflict, the "Constitution does not
say that Congress shall pass no law inconsistent with a treaty,
and it would have been a strange anomaly if it had imp9sed
any such prohibition. There may be cases of treaties so injurious, or which may become so by change of circumstances, that
it may be the right and duty of the government to renounce
or disregard them. Every government min-t judge and determine for itself the proper occasion for the e:ercise of such a
power; and'such a power, I suppose, is impliedly reserved by
every party to a treaty, and I hope and believe belongs inalienably to the government of the United States. It is true that
such a power may be abused, so may the treaty-making power
and all other powers. But for our security against such abuse,
we nay and must rely on the integrity, wisdom and good faith "
of our government." 5 Opinions Atty's Gen. 345. This
power was exercised by Congress in 19S, when it declared
that the United States were of right freed and exonerated from
the stipulations of the treaties and consular convention previously concluded with France, and that they should not thereafter be regarded as obligatory on the government or citizens
of the United States. 1 Stat. 518. But, what is more important than these citations as to the weight to be given to an act
of Congress when in conflict with a preceding treaty, this court
has this day rendered an authoritative decision on the subject.
In several cases, brought to recover from the collector of the
port of 'New York moneys received by him as duties on passengers landing there from foreign ports, not being citizens of the
United States, at the rate of fifty cents for each of them, under
the act of Congress of August 3, 1882, to regulate immigration,

CHEW HEONG v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

it was objected that the act violated provisions contained in
treaties of our government with foreign nations, but the court
replied that, "so far as the provisions in that act may be found
in conflict with any treaty, they must prevail in all the judicial
courts of this country!' And after a careful consideration of
the subject, the court reached this conclusion, and held that,
"so far as a treaty made by the United States with any foreign
nation can become the subject of judicial cognizance in the
courts of this country, it is subject to such acts as Congress may
pass for its enforcement, modification or repeal." Read .foney
C14.es, post 580. See also the case of The Cherokee Tobacco, 11.
Wall. 616, and the case of Ak Lung, the Cinese Laorerfrom
Hong-Kong, 9 Sawyer.
,While, therefore, the courts will always endeavor to bring
legislation into harmony with treaty stipulations, and not presume that it was intended by the legislative departmene to diยงregard them, yet an act of Congress must be construed according to its manifest intent, and neither-limited nor enlarged by
ingenious reasoning or fanciful notions of a purpose not declared on its face.
Before proceeding to examine in detail the act of'Congress in
question, a few words may be said as to the causes which led
to its enactment. Upon the acquisition of California and the
discovery of gold, people from all parts of the world came to
the country in great numbers, and among them Chinese
laborers. They found ready employment; they were industrious and docile, and generally peaceable. They proved to be
valuable domestic servants, and were useful in constructing
roads, draining marshes, cultivating fields, and, generally,
wherever out-door labor was required. For some time they
excited little opposition, except when seeking to work in the
mines. But as their numbers increased they began to engage
in various trades and mechanical pursuits, and soon came into
competition, not only with white laborers in the field, but with
white artisans and mechanics. They interfered in many ways
with the industries and business of the State. Very few of
them had families, not one in five hundred, and they had a
wonderful capacity to live in narrow quarters without injury

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

to their health, and were generally content with small gains
and the simplest fare. They were perfectly satisfied with
what would hardly furnish a scanty subsistence to our laborers
and artisans. Successful competition with them was, therefore,
impossible, for our laborers are not content, and never should
be, with a bare livelihood for their work. They demand
sonething more, which will give them the comforts of a home,
and enable them to support and educate their children. But
this is not possible of attainment if they are obliged to com-.
pete with Chinese laborers and artisans under the conditions
mentioned; and it so proved in California. Irritation and discontent naturally followed, and frequent conflicts between
them and our people disturbed the peace of the community in
many portions of the State.
By the treaty concluded in July, 1868, generally known as
the Burlingame Treaty, the contracting parties declare that
they "cordially recognize the inherent and inalienable right of
man to change his home and allegiance, and also the mutual
advantage of the free migration and emigration of their citizens and subjects, respectively, from the one country to the
other, for purposes of curiosity, of trade, or as permanent
residents." And, also, that "citizens of the United States,
visiting or residing in China, shall enjoy the same privileges,
immunities, or exemptions in respect to travel or residence as
may there be enjoyed by the citizens and subjects of the most
favored nation. And, reciprocally, Chinese subjects visiting or
residing in the United States, shall enjoy the same privileges,
immunities, and exemptions in respect to travel or residence,
as may there be enjoyed by the citizens or subjects of the most
favored nation." A-ts. V. and VI., 16 Stat. 740.
But, notwithstanding these favorable provisions; opening the
whole of our country to them, and extending to them the privileges, immunities and exemptions of citizens or subjects of the
most favored nation, they have remained among us a separate
people, retaining their original peculiarities of dress, manners,
habits, and modes of living, which are as marked as their conplexion and language. They live by themselvesh they constitute a distinct organization with the laws and customs which

CHEW HEONG v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

they brought from China. Our institutions have made no impression on them during the more than thirty years they have
been in the country. They have their own tribunals to which
they oluntarily submit, and seek to live in 'a manner similar to
that of China. They do not and will not assimilate with our
people; and their dying wish is that their bodies may be taken
to China for burial.
But this is not all. The treaty is fair on its face. It stipulates for like privileges, immunities and exemptions on both
sides, to our people going to China and to its people coming
here. But the stipulations to our people are utterly illusive
and deceptive. No American citizen can enjoy in China, except at certain designated ports, any valuable privileges, immunities or exemptions. He can trade at those ports, but
nowhere else. He cannot go into the interior of the country
and buy or sell there or engage in manufactures of any kind.
A residence there would be unsafe, and the crowded millions
of her people render it impossible for him to engage in business of any kind among them. The stipulations of the treaty,
8o far as the residence of the citizens or subjects of one country
in the other and the trade which would follow such residence
are concerned, are therefore one-sided. Reciprocity in benefits
between the two countries in that respect has never existed.
There is not and never has been any "mutual advantage"1 in
the migration or emigration of the citizens or subjects, respectively, from one country to the other which th6 treaty, in
"cordially recognizing," assumes to exist. Suggestions of any
such mutuality were deceptive and false from the outset. The
want of it was called to the attention of our government in
1878 by a communication to the State Department from our
Minister in China. "A few words," says the Minister, "are
needed to indicate the lack of reciprocity between us. I think
there are no opportunities of residence or of enterprise from
which the Chinese among us are debarred. They can go where
they will and do what they will in all our broad domain. But
it is not so here. Our countrymen may reside in a few cities
only, and they may engage in no enterprise outside of the
ordinary interchange of commodities, and their transportation

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

between defined points. Opportunities. exist to develop mines,
to establish furnaces and factories, to construct roads, canals,
railroads and telegraphs, to operate these, and steam and other
vessels on many routes now not open to them; but from all
these and many other important branches of enterprise we are
effectually and perhaps hopelessly shut out."
And tbhis ia not all. By-the treaty of 1868 the contracting
parties declare their reprobation of any other than "an ehtirely
voluntary emigration," and they agree to pass laws making it
a penal offence for a citizen of the United States or Chinese
subjects to take Chinese subjects to the United States without
their free and voluntary consent. In the face of this explicit
provision l4rge numbers of them, more than one-half of all
who have come to the United States, have been brought under
what is termed the contract system; that is, a contract for
their labor. In one sense they come freely, because they come
pursuant to contract, but they are not the free immigrants
whose coming the treaty contemplates, and for whose protection the treaty provides. They are for the time the bond
thralls of the contractor-his coolie slaves. The United States
had already legislated to prevent the transportation by their
citizens of coolies from China to any foreign port; but no law
has ever been passed by China to prevent its subjects, thus
bound, from being taken to the United States. Act of February 19, 1862, 12 Stat. 340.
In view of these facts-that the Chinese cannot assimilate
with our people, but continue a distinct race amongst us, with
institutions, customs and laws entirely variant from ours; that
the larger portion of persons termed Chinese laborers were imported under the labor-contract system; that no law to prevent
their importation under this system had ever been passed by
China; that competition with them tended to degrade labor,
and thus to drive our laborers from large fields of industry;
that the treaty was one-sided in the benefits it conferred as to
residence and trade by the citizens or subjects of one country
in the other, the condition of the people of China rendering any
reciprocity in such benefits impossible-it is not surprising that
there went up from the whole Pacific Coast an earnest appeal

CHEW HEOIXG v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

to Congress to restrain the further immigration of Chinese. It
came not only from that class who toil -with their hands, and
thus felt keenly the pressure of the competition with coolie
labor, but from all classes. Thoughtful persons who were exempt from race prejudices saw, in the facilities of transportation between the two countries, the certainty, at no distant
day, that, from the unnumbered miflions- n the Qpposite shores
of the Pacific, vast hordes would pour in upon us, overrunning
our coast and' controlling its'institutions. A restriction upon
their further immigration was felt to be necessary to prevent
the degradation of white labor, and to preserve to ourselves
the inesinable benefits of our Christian civilization.
It was objected to the legislation sought, that the treaty of
1868 stood in the way, and that whilst it remainle unmodified
such legislation would be a breach of faith to China, and give
her just ground of complaint. I was formerly of that opinion,
and so expressed myself in some judicial decisions, the want
of reciprocity in the benefits stipulated not being called to my
attention, or being overlooked at the time, Case of Chinese
.Mff'erant, 7 Saw., 546, 549 ;"but subsequent reflection has cop
vinced me that my views on this subject require modificaioi,.
Be that as it may, many jurists of eminence have not hesitated
to affirm that such legislation would not have been the subject
of just reproach by any one acquainted with the failure of reciprocal benefits to our people in the operation of the treaty,
in consideration of which alone the treaty was adopted. The
first treaty with China, negotiated in 1844 by Mr. Cashing,
and the treaty with that country negotiated by Mr. Reed. in
1858, had not only declared that there should be peace and
friendship between the two nations and their people, but stipulated for commercial intercourse at certain designated ports in
China, and for protection to citizens of the United States there,
while peaceably attending to their affairs. 8 Stat. 592; 12Tb.
1023. It was in the treaty of 1868, the Burlingame Treatyas
it is called, that the two nations recognized the mutual advantages of the free migration and emigration of their citizens
and subjects, respectively, from the one country to the other,
for purposes of curiosity, of trade, or as permyanent residents;

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

and stipulated that each should enjoy, in the country of the
other, the privileges, immunities and exemptions, in respect to
residence and trade, which might be thus enjoyed by citizens
or subjects of the most favored nation. Yet, as already stated,
such freedom of trade or residence is not allowed to American
citLehs in China, and, from her crowded population, never can
be. The stipulation for reciprocal benefits, in this way, has
never been performed by the Chinese government; and has
always been incapable of enforcement. The consideration,
therefore, for allowing free emigration from China to this
country has failed, and, it may be affirmed with much justice,
that by reason of this failure there would have been io- breach
of faith to China had the stipulation on our part been disregarded bythe legislation of Congress. If the treaty had stipulated for the like admission to each country of the goods of
the other, and China excluded our goods, or her condition was
such that they could not be landed, it would seem that no one
could pretend that the stipulation on our part to receive her
goods would continue obligatory. It cannot make any difference that the stipuAtions relate to emigrants instead of goods.
So of any other mutual stipulations; when on one side they
are not observed, or become incapable of enforcement, they
cease to be binding on the other. And surely it could never
have been contemplated that an unlimited immigration of
Chinese, with all the privileges of subjects of the most favored
nation, should be continued without our receiving corresponding benefits for which the treaty stipulated.
The present Secretary of State, in a recent dispatch to our
minister in England respecting the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty,
calls attention to a provision which he states that Great Britain has not kept, adding that, if she "has violated and continues to violate that provision, the treaty is, of course, voidable at the pleasure of the United States." Indeed, history
furnishes many instances where one nation has claimed a release from a treaty because the other party has disregarded it,
or the conditions which existed at its date have essentially
changed, and in so claiming and acting no-reproaches of bad
faith were incurred or made. Undoubtedly, as said by Mr.

CHEW HEONG v. 1NITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

Justice Curtis, the withdrawal of -anation from the execution
of a treaty is a matter of great delicacy and gravity, and not
to be lightly done. Usually notice beforehand is given as the
course of which the other can least complain. Yet it is a matter resting entirely with the legislative and executive departments.
In response to the urgent and persistent appeals of the Pacific Coast for restrictive legislation, and in deference to those
who were of .opinion that, without a modification of the treaty,
such legislation would be a breach of faith, commissioners
were appointed, to proceed to China and there negotiate for
such modification. The supplementary treaty of November,
1880, was the result. It declared in its first article that"Whenever, in the opinion of the government of the United
States, the coming of Chinese laborers to the United States, or
their residence therein, affects or threatens to affect the interests of that country, or to endanger the good order of the said
country or of any locality within the territory thereof, the
government of China agrees that the government of the
United States may regulate, limit or suspend such coming or
residence, but may not absolutely prohibit it. The limitation
or suspension shall be reasonable and shall apply only to
Chinese who may go to the United States as laborers, other
classes not being included in the limitations. Legislation taken
in regard to Chinese laborers will be of such character only as
is necessary to enforce the regulation, limitation or suspension
of immigration, and immigrants shall not be subject to personal
maltreatment or abuse."
In its second article it declared that"Chinese subjects, whether proceeding to the United States
as teachers, students, merchants or from curiosity, together
with their body and household servants, and Chinese laborers
who are nowin the United States shall be allowed to go and
come of their own free will and accord, and shall be accorded
all the rights, privileges and immunities and exemptions which
are accorded to the citizens and subjects of the most favored
nation."
As thus seen, by the first article, China not only agrees, not-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

-

withstanding the stipulations of former treaties, that the government of the United States may regulate, limit, or suspend
the coming of Chinese laborers whenever in its judgment the
interests of our country or of any part thereof. may require
such action, and that the legislation for such regulation, limitation, or suspension is committed to its discretion, with a
proviso that the legislation shall be reasonable, and that the
immigrants shall not be maltreated or abused. The reasonableness and necessity of the legislation enacted is confided to
its judgment.
The second article, which provides that Chinese laborers
then in the United States shall be allowed freedom of ingress
and egress, could have been intended to apply only to such
laborers as might continue their residence in the United States,
not to those who might subsequently leave the country without
any intention to return. Its manifest design was to allow such
persons then here to leave the country for a temporary, absence
and return. The same reasons which could be supposed to
induce legislation against further immigration of laborers
apply, and with equal if not aggravated force, to the return
of those who have once abandoned their residence here. The
opinion of the court proceels on the supposition that those
here at the date of the treaty, having subsequently left the
country, have the right to return at any time in the indefinite
future, though they may have abandoned their residence here
and acquired one elsewhere. 'This view of the rights of such
laborers, and the. necessity of subordinating the provisions of
the act of Congress to the maintenance of such supposed rights,
is, in my judgment, and I say it with deference, the source of
error in the opinion and conclusion of the court. The coinplaining party here, as already stated, had been absent from
the United States over three years and in the Sandwich
Islands, when he sought to return, and. in that time he had
acquired a residence there as fully as he ever had in the United
States.
Neither does the second article prevent the United States
from prescribing regulations for the identification of the Chinese
laborer here at the date mentioned, and insisting upon a com-

CEW HEONG v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

pliance with them as a condition of his right to re-enter the
country after once leaving it. A European nation requiring
passports from foreigners seeking to enter its territory, and a
certificate of identification if residing therein, was never held
to violate stipulations for free intercourse or free residence.
Nor does the article preclude the enactment of regulations to
identify Chinese subjects other than laborers, if it be found
that this last class attempt the evasion of th6 requirement as to
their own identification by seeking to personate other classes,
such as merchants or students.
Soon after- the ratification of the treaty of 1880 restrictive
legislation was attempted, and a bill passed the two houses of
Congress, but failed to become a law. On the 6th of May,
182, another act passed by Congress -received thd Executive
sanction. 22 Stat. 58. This act-the one under consideration
-is entitled "An Act to execute certain treaty stipulationsrelating to Chinese," and, in my judgment, it is authorized by
the treaty,_ and, whether so authorized or not, cannof be judicially aniulled upon any theory that Congress went beyond
the requirements of good faith in its enactment. It consists of
fifteen sections. The first declares that after ninety days from
the passage of the act, and for the period of ten years from its
date, the coming of Chinese laborers to the United States is
suspended, and that it shall be unlawful for any such laborer
to come, or, having come, to remain within the United States.
The second makes it a misdemeanor, punishable by fine, to
which imprisonment may be added, for the master of, any
vessel knowingly to bring within the United States from a
foreign country and land any such Chinese laborer. The third
then provides that these two sections shall not apply to Chinese
laborers who were in the United States September 17, 1880,
or who came within ninety days after the passage of the at.
The majority of the court, by their construction, add the
words: "If those here September 17, 1880, hiave previously
left the United States, but shall apply to those subsequently
leaving." That is to say, in their view, the sections do not
apply to those who may have been here at the date of the
treaty, if they had left the country before the passage of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting )pinion: Field, J.

act, but do apply if they afterwards left. Those who have
left, says the court, may come at any time in the indefinite
future without regard to the act. But the third section draws
no such distinction in its exception; and it is impossible, from
its language, to exempt from any subsequent requirement those
who had left before the passage of the act, without extending
it to those who left afterwards; and it will not be pretended
that the following sections do not require of the latter a certificate of identification. It is not necessary, in my judgment,
to interpolate any words to reach the intention of Congress.
The fourth section gives interpretation to the language of the
third. It declares that, for the purpose of identifying the
laborer who were here on the 17th of November, 1880, or
came within the ninety days mentioned, and to furnish them
with "the proper evidence" of their right to go from and
come to the United States, the "collector of customs of the
district from which any such Chinese laborer shall depart from
the United States shall, in person or by deputy, go on board
each vessel having on board any such Chinese laborer, and
cleared or about to sail from his district for a foreign port, and
on such vessel make a list of all such Chinese laborers, which
shall be entered in registry-books to be kept for that purpose,
in which shall be stated the name, age, occupation, last place
of residence, physical marks or peculiarities, and all facts necessary for the identification of each of such Chinese laborers,
which books shall be safely kept in the custom house ;" and
each laborer thus departing shall be entitled to receive, from
the collector or his deputy, a certificate containing such particulars, corresponding with the registry, as may serve to identify him. "The certificate herein provided for," says the
section, "shall entitle the Chinese laborer to whom the same
is issued to return to and re-enter the United States upon producing and delivering the same to the collector of customs of
the district at which such Chinese laborer shall seek to reenter."
The plain purport of the act, as it seems to me, was to exclude all Chinese laborers except those who came at certain
designated periods and continued their residence.in the coun-

CHEW HEONG v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

try, and, if they should leave and be desirous of returning, to
require them to obtain a proper certificate of identification.
By this construction, all the provisions of the act are made
harmonious; without it, they are contradictory and absurd.
The fourth section has no meaning unless applied to those
excepted laborers mentiQned in the third section, for it refers,
to them by name, and they are only excepted within its conditions from the general prohibition of the first section. The
third section declares that the first two-those which contained
the general prohibition-shall not apply to certain laborers,
but it does not declare that the remaining sections shall not
apply to them, and if they do apply, they impose their conditions. 'By the construction of the majority, the fourth section
is surplusage and should be stricken from the act.
The language of the third section in the amended act of
1884 differs slightly from that used in the act of 1882. In the
original act the third section declares that the first two sections
shall not apply to Chinese laborers who were in the United
States on the 17th of November, 1880, or who shall have come
before the expiration of ninety days after the passage of the
act, and who shall produce the required certificate. The
amendatory act has, instead of "and who shall produce," these
words, "1norshall said sections apply to Chinese laborers who
shall produce" the certificate. From this change of language,
which appears from the debates to have been incorporated
during the discussion of the act in the House, without any supposition by the friends of the measure that it, in any respect,
changed its general features, it is contended that a distinction
is made between laborers here at the -dates mentioned and those
who might obtain a certificate, and that the subsequent requirements of the act apply to one class and not the other. But
this position has no basis upon which to rest, for no laborers
other than those here on the dates mentioned could obtain
a certificate, and when we turn to the fourth section we find
its language embracing all of them; none are excepted from
the necessity of securing that document. There is no expression anywhere in the act of an intention to deal with a class of
Chinese laborers less than the whole body who were excepted

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

from the general prohibition. Not a word looks to any such
purpose; and it can be extracted from the act only by force of
a construction which falls in the law of interpretation under no
recognized head.
The construction which I have suggested, preserves the act
with all its intended benefits. Other sections than those I
have cited corroborate and strengthen it. Thus, the eighth
section declares that the master of any vessel arriving in the
United States shall, "before landing or permitting to land,any
Cinese _passengers, deliver and report to the collector of customs of, the district in which such vessel shall have arrived, a
separate list of all Chinese passengers taken on board of his
vessel at any foreign port or place, and all such passengers on
board the vessel at that time. Such list shall show the names
of such passengers (and, if accredited officers of the Chinese or
of any other foreign government, travelling on the business of
that government, or their servants, with a note of such facts)
and the names and other particulars, as shown by their respec.
tive eeri.Rvctes." This shows clearly that any Chinaman on
board such vessel, not being an officer of the government of
China., is expected to have a certificate; for the names and description of all Chinese passengers, not being officials, are to be
"shown by their respective certificates." Then, the ninth section provides "that, before any Chinese passengers are landed
from any such vessel, the collector or his deputy shall proceed
to examine such passengers, comparing the certikates with the
list and the passengers, and no passenger shall be allowed to
land in the United States from such -vesselin violation of law."
The twelfth section also declares "that no Chinese person shall
be permitted to enter the United States by land without producing to the proper. officer of customs the certificate in this
act required of Chinese persons seeking to land from a vessel."
Should we limit the designation of persons mentioned in this
section to laborers, no conceivable reason can bo stated why a
certificate of identification should be required from them when
entering the United States by land, which does not equally
apply to them when entering the United States by vessel.
If the construction I give works hardship to any persons, it is

CHEW HEONG v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

for Congress, not this court, to afford the remedy. This court
has no dispensing power over the provisions of an act of Congress. It is itself only the servant of the law, bound to obey,
not to evade or make it. The act of May 6, 1882, requires, in
my judgment, a certificate for their admission from all Chinese
laborers coming to the United States, whether they have been
in the country before or not. If they have been here and left
before the passage of the act they are necessarily excluded, for
the act makes no exception in their favor. The amendatory
act of 1884 seems to me to remove any doubt as to the necessity
of the certificate, if any existed under the act of 1882. Under
the construction adopted in the Circuit Court, before the
amendatory act, parol evidence had been allowed in a multitude of cases where previous residence was alleged, and the
District and Circuit Courts were blocked up by them to the
great inconvenience of suitors. This fact, and the suspicious
character in many instances of the testimony by reason of the
loose notions entertained by the witnesses as to the obligation
of an oath, led to the general expression of a desire for further
legislation restricting the evidence receivable. This desire led
*to the passage of the amendatory act of 1884. The Committee
of the House of Representatives for Foreign Affairs, which
reported the act, accompanied it with a report in which they
said that: "The manifold evasions, as well as attempted evasions of the act that have occurred since its passage, through
the broad, actual, and possible interpretations of the words
'merchant' and ' traveller,' together with the kotorious ea2albilitie of the lower classes of Ohinese for perjujy, have not only
flooded our federal courts on the Pacific Coast with cases
which, being quasi-criminal, are entitled to precedence over
other and more important business," but show that the act of
1882 "has failed to meet the demands which called it into existence." To obviate the difficulties attending the enforcement
of that act from the causes stated, the amendatory act of 1884
declared that the certificate which the laborer must obtain
"shall be the only evidence permissible to establish his right of
re-entry into the United States." By it the door is effectually
.closed, or would be closed but for the decision of the court in
VOL. cxI--37

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, J.

this case, to all parol evidence and the perjuries which have
heretofore characterized its reception. But for this decision,
nothing could take the place of the certificate or dispense with
it; and I see only trouble resulting from the opposite conclusion. All the bitterness which has heretofore existed on the
Pacific Coast on the subject of the immigration of Chinese
laborers will be renewed and intensified, and our courts there
will be crowded with applicants to land, who never before saw
our shores, and yet will produce a multitude of witnesses
to establish their former residence, whose testimony cannot be
refuted and yet cannot be rejected. I can only express the
hope, in view of the difficulty, if not impossibility, of enforcing
the exclusion of Chinese laborers intended by the act, if paroL
testimony from them is receivable, that Congress will, at an
early day, speak on the subject in terms which will admit of
no doubt as to their meaning.
BRADLEY, J.

I concur with Mr. Justice FIELD in dissenting from the judgment of the court in this case. It seems tome that both the act
of 1882 and the act of 1884, when carefully examined, require
that a Chinese laborer should present the certificate which those
laws prescribe in order to be entitled to the privilege of landing
or coming into the territory of the United States.
By the treaty with China, adopted lNovember 1', 1880 (but
not proclaimed until October, 1381), it was agreed that the
United States might limit or suspend the coming of Chinese
lab.orers into, or their residence in, the United States: but it was
provided that those who wert then in the country should be allowed to go and come of their own free will and accord. The act
of May 6, 1882, prohibited their coming into the country for ten
years after the expiration of ninety days from that date; but
exempted from the prohibition those who were in the United
States at the date of the treaty (INovember 17, 1880), or who
should have come -into the same before the expiration of ninety
dkys from the passage of the act, and souild produce the eiidence required by the act, of being in the excepted class. This
evidence was a certificate of identification (analogous to a pass-

CHEW HEONG v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion : Bradley, J.

port) to be given to any laborer leaving the country and desirous of returning, by the collector of the port from which he
sailed. Without such a certificate he was not permitted to
return to the United States. Of course, those who had already left the country before the law was passed could not have
such certificates, and their condition is what produces the controversy. From the supposed hardship of their case the Circuit
Courts of the United States gave a construction to the law
which let them come in on parol proof of their fornmer residence
here. This was calculated to produce great abuses, for Chinese
of the lower class have little regard for the solemnity of an
oath. Congress passed another act July 5,1881, amendatory
of the first act, by which it was declared (see. 4) that the "said
certificate shall be the only evidence permissible to establish
his right of re-entry" (referring to the person who shbuld receive such a-certificate); and that masters of vessels arriving at
any-port with Chinese on board, should, before they would be
permitted to land, deliver to the collector a list exhibiting their
names and other particulars as shown by their respective certificates. But the exemption clause of this act (sec. 3), declaring who should be exempted from the prohibition to come into
the United States, by some inadvertence was expressed inthe
disjunctive, namely, that the act should not apply to those who
were in the United States on the 1'7th of November, 1880, or who
should have come into the same before the expiration of ninety
days from the passage of the act of 1882, nor to those wo should
produve the eertifcate before 3pentioned: The whole tenor of
the act shows that this was an inadvertent expression, and that
it should have been (as in the act of 1882), "and who should
Produce the certificate, &c.," which, by the familiar rule of
construction for changing "or"1 into "and," and vice versa, is
admissible, and in this case is required to prevent a palpable
incongruity. When those are exempted who were here in November, 1880,or came here before the expiration of ninety days
from the passage of the act of 1882, it would be incongruous

to add, as an additional and separate class, those who should
present a certificate; for no others could get a certificate.
This incongruity, as well as the general tenor of the act, make

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

it clear that the clause of exemption should be read conjunc-tively as in the act of 1882. And, taking the whole act together, it seems to me perfectly clear that it requires a certificate in all cases. By the 12th section it is declared that no
Chinese person shall be permitted to enter the United States by
land without producing to the proper officer of customs the
certificate required of those seeking to land from a vessel;
showing that no exceptions were to be made; but that every
one coming into the country, in whatever way, or by whatever
route, must have a certificate.
It may be that this view of the law makes it conflict with
the treaty; though Justice PFi6ld has shown strong reasons to
the contrary; but whether it does so, or not, I think it is the
true construction; and the rule is now settled that CongTess
may, by law, overrule a treaty stipulation; although, of course,
it should not be done without strong reasons for it; and an act
of Congress should not be construed as having that effect unless
such be its plain meaning. Thinking, as I do, that the act in
question cannot be fairly construed in a different sense from
that which I have indicated, I cannot concur in the judgment
of the court.

HEAD MON-EY CASES.
EDYE and Another v. ROBERTSON, Collector.
IN, ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

CUNARD STEAXSIP COMPAY v. SAME.
SAME 'v. SANEE
IN ERiOR TO THE oCtRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW'YORIK.
Argued November 19, 20, 1834.-Decided December 8, 1884.

The act of Congress of August 3, 1882, "to regulate immigration," which imposes upon the owners"of steam or sailing vessels who shall bring passengers from a foreign port into a port of the United States, a duty of fifty

