OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

THE ELIZABETH JONES.
THE WILLIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued November 13, 1884.-Decided December 15, 1S4.

A schooner was sailing E. by N., with the wind S., and a bark was close.
hauled, 'on the port tack. The schooner sighted the green light of the
bark about half a point on the starboard bow, about three miles off, and
starb9arded a point. At two miles off she starboarded another point. As
a result the light of the bark opened about two points. The bark let
her sails shake and then filled them twice. The schooner continued to see
the green light of the bark till the vessels were within a length of each
other, when the bark opened her red light. At the moment the vessel'
were approaching collision, the schooner put her helm hard a-starboard,
and headed northeast. At that juncture the bark ported, and her stem
struck the starboard side of the schooner amidships, at about a right angle:
field, That the bark was in fault and the schooner free from fault.
If the case was one of crossing courses, under article 12 of the Rules prescribed
by the act of April 29, 1864, ch. 69, 18 Stat. 68, the schooner being free
and1 the bark close-hauled on the port tack, the bark did not keep her
course, as required by article 18, and no cause for a departure existed under
article 19, and she neglected precautions required by the special circumstances of the case, within article 20.
The final I orting by the b :k was not excusable, as being done ia extremis,
because it was not produced by any fault in the schooner.
The decree of the Circuit Court was affirmed without interest.

On the 12th of August, 1873, James R. Slauson and William
R. Pugh filed a libel in admiralty, in the District Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, against
the bark Elizabeth Jones, to recover damages for the total
loss of the schooner Willis, owned by them, and of the freight
money on her cargo, through a collision which occurred between the two vessels shortly before two o'clock A. Mi.on the
l1th of November, 1872, on Lake Erie. The Willis was on a
voyage from Chicago to Buffalo with a cargo of barley, and
the Jones was bound from Buffalo to Chicago with a cargo of
coal.

THE ELIZABETH JON-ES.
Statement of Facts.

The libel alleged that the course of the Willis was east by.
north, the wind being from the southward, and about south,

and about a six-knot breeze; that about two o'clock

A.

:N.the

lookout reported a green light half a point on the starboard
bow of the Willis, and apparently two or three miles distant;
that the Willis had the wind free, and the vessel showing the
green light, and which afterwards proved to be the Jones, was,
to those on board of the Willis, evidently by the wind and closehauled - that the helm of the Willis was put to starboard, and
she went off a point and was steadied; that the Jones came on,
still showing her green light, when, in order to give her a wide
berth, the helm of the Willis was again put to starboard, and
she went off another point and was steadied; that the Jones
continued to approach, but, apparently, not holding her course,
keeping away, though still showing her green light only; that
the helm of the Willis was put to starboard, and she swung off
so as to head northeast; that, about the same time, the Jones
showed both her red and green lights; that the Jones immediately came ito collision with the Willis, head on, striking
her amidships, at right angles, crashing in her side, and causing
her to sink in a very short time; that, had the Jones kept her
course, she would have passed the Willis on her starboard hand,
safely; and that the Jones not only kept away while she was
approaching the Willis, but when she had neared the Willis, so
that there was imminent danger of colliding, she improperly
ported, instead of starboarding, her helm.
On the 1st of October, 1873, the owners of the Jones filed
their answer to the libel. It averred that the Willis had the
wind free, about a six-knot breeze, from about south; that the
Jones was *sailing by the wind, close-hauled; that the WVillis
discovered the Jones two or three miles distant; that immediately preceding the collision the Willis put her helm to starboard, and the Jones put her helm to port, but in approaching
the Willis the Jones did not change her course until a collision
became imminent, and the Willis made no change of course to
avoid the Jones, except, as before stated, immediately preceding the collision; that the lookout of the Jones discovered
what proved to be the light of the Willis from two to four

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

miles. distant; that she "was approaching the Jones in an opposite direction from the course of the Jones; that, when the
light of the Willis was first seen, it was almost dead ahead, and
continued on that line as the vessels approached each other ;"
that the Jones was kept teadily on her course until, seeing that
there was danger of a collision, her helm was ported, but those
in command of the Willis. caused her helm to be put to starboard, which threw her across the bows of the Jones and caused
the collision, and that it resulted entirely from the fault of the
Willis.
On the 4th of October, 1873, the owners of the Jones filed a
cross-libel against the Willis, to recover for damage caused to
the Jones by the collision. It contained substantially the
same averments as the answer to the libel of the Willis, adding
the fact that the Jones struck the Willis between her fore and
main rigging.
The case was heard on pleadings and proofs by the District
Court, in February, 185, and, after the hearing and before a
decision, leave being granted to the owners of the Jones to
amend their answer and their cross-libel, they filed an amended
answer on the 8th of March, 1875. It varied the allegations of
the original answer, by stating that the Willis di§~overed the
Jones about three miles distant, but did not see the green light
of the Jones; that, immediately preceding the collision, the
Jones began to put her helm to port, but, seeing that the
Willis was starboarding her helm, immediately changed it to
starboard; that the lookout of the Jones discovered, about half
a point on his port bow, and three miles off, the red light of a
vessel that proved to be the Willis; that, after the light of the
Willis was first seen, it continued to show more on the port
bow of the Jones; that the Jones was kept on her course until
immediately before the collision, when she began to port her
helm, but, seeing that the Willis was starboarding her helm,
iimnediately changed it to starboard, but the Willis continued
to starboard her helm, which threw her across the bows of the
Jones; ond that the starboard bow of the Jones came in contact with the starboard side of the Willis about amidships. On
the same day the owners of the Jones filed an amended

THE ELIZABETH JONES.
Statement of Facts.

cross-libel, containing substantially the same averments as the
amended answer, in variation .of those in the original crosslibel. The original libel was, by stipulation, made the answer
to the cross-libel.
In July, 1875, the District Court entered a decree, finding
that the Willis was in fault, dismissing her libel, pronouncing
for the libellants in the cross-libel, and awarding to them
$1,500 damages. The owners of the Willis appealed to the
Circuit Court. In August, 1881, that court entered a decree,
finding that the Jones was in fault, reversing the decree of the
District Court, dismissing the cross-libel, pronouncing for the
libellants in the original libel, and awarding to them $32,826.75
for damages and interest. From that decree the owners of the
Jones appealed.
The Circuit Court filed the following findings of fact:
"First. That on the 11th day of November, 1872, a collision
occurred between the schooner Willis and the bark Elizabeth
Jones, on Lake Erie, at about 16 miles east of Point au Pelee.
The libellant, the schooner Willis, was bound *for Buffalo; the
respondent, the bark Jones, was bound for Chicago. The
vessels collided at a quarter before two in the morning. 'The
Willis was sailing east by north. The bark was sailing a
general course southwest by west one-half west, steering by
the wind. The wind was south, about a six-knot breeze, at
the time of the collision. Previous to the collision it had been
southeast, picking up to the westward. At twelve o'clock the
wind was east. At twenty minutes after one it was southeast.
At the time of the collision it was south. The Willis had the
wind free, and the bark was close-hauled on the port tack.
Both vessels had their proper lights and watch on deck. The
vessels were between two and four miles apart when they
sighted each other's lights. The night, though it occasionally
blouded up, was favorable, and light enough to make objects
easily discernible for two or three miles. The schooner was
laden with a cargo of barley, and the bark with a cargo of
coal. When the vessels collided, thb starboard side of the stem
of the bark struck the schooner on the starboard side between
the fore and main rigging-struck her amidships, -at about

OOTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

right angles, on the starboard side. The schooner and her
cargo sank in less than half an hour and were a total loss. The
injury sustained by the Jones was fixed in the decree of the
District Court at $1,500.
Second. The officers and men of the schooner Willis first
sighted the green light of 'the bark Jones, about half a point
off the schooner's starboard bow, at a distance of about three
miles off, and continued -to see the green light of the Jones
until the vessels were within a length of each other, when the
Jones opened her red light.
Third. The helm of the Willis, as soon as the ight of the
Jones appeared, was at once put to starboard, and she went
off a point and then steadied, the light of theJones thereupon
opening about a point and a half. When about two miles distant the helm of the Willis was again put to starboard a point,
and then steadied, the light of the Jones thereupon. opening
about two points.
Fourth. That the mate in command of the Jones gave the
following order immediately after first sighting the light of
the Willis: ' I went aft to the man at the wheel to see how
she was headed, and her sails were then kind of shaking. I
told him to "look out and keep the sails full." Then I went
forward again. By the time I got forward the sails was lifting. Again I told him to keep the sails full-" draw up and
keepothe sails full."'
Fifth. At the moment the vessels were approaching collision,
the heln of the Willis was put hard a-starboard, and she must
have swung so as to head northeast, and thus have exposed her
starboard side. At this juncture the Jones ported her helm,
and the vessels collided, the stem of the Jones striking the
Willis amidships, on the starboard side."
The Circuit Court also fied the following conclusions of
law:
"First. The court finds, as a conclusion of law, that this
case falls under the 12th article of the regulations for preventing collisions at sea, applicable to the navigation of vessels.
Second. That the bark Jones, being close-hauled, and the
schooner Willis being free, it became the duty of the Willis to

THE ELIZABETH JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

keep out of the way, and she, having come into collision, must
show why she did not discharge that duty and avoid the collision.
Third. The court finds, as a matter of law, that each of the
changes heretofore recited in the findings of fact, as having
been made by the Jones, was improper.
Fourth. The court also finds, as a matter of law, that the
changes recited in the findings of fact, as having been made by
the Willis, were proper."
-Mr. Tfirt Dex&er, for appellants.
/'. .RobertPiae, for appellees.
Ia:h. JUSTICE

BLATonFUon delivered the opinion of the court.

lHe recited the facts"as above stated, and continued:
There is a bill of exceptions, containing exceptions by the
claimants of the Jones to the first, third and fourth conclusions
of law. Our review of the decree below is limited by statute
to a determination of the questions of law which arise on the
record, under the facts stated by the Circuit Court. The opinion of that court, although, as required by a rule of this court,
annexed to and transmitted with the record, is no part of it.
When this collision occurred, the regulations in force for
preventing collisions on the water were those prescribed .by
the act of April 29, 1864, 13 Stat. 58. Articles 11, 12, 18,
19, and 20 of the "Steering and Sailing Rules" in that act
have a bearing on this case, and are as follows-:
"Two

SAILIG SHIPS mrEETIG.

AnTIcE 11. If two sailing -ships are meeting end on, or
nearly end on, so as to involve risk of collision, the helms of
both shall b'e put to port, so that each may pass on the port
side of the other.

Two sAiLmnG siPS RossnmG.
ARTiCLE 12. When two sailing ships are crossing so as to involve risk of collision, then, if they have the wind on different
sides, the ship with the wind on the port side shall keep out of

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the way of the ship with the wind on the starboard side, excep, in
the case in which the ship with the wind on the port side is
close-hauled, and the other ship. free, in which case the latter
ship shall keep out of the way. But if they have the wind on
the same side, or if one of them has the wind aft, the ship
which is to windward shall keep out of the way of the ship
which is to leeward."
"COxSTRucrIoN OF ARTICLES 12, 14, 15 AND I'.
ARTICLE 18. Where, by the above rules, one of two ships is

to keep out of the way, the other shall keep her course subject
to the qualifications contained in the following article:
PROVISO TO SAVE SPECIAL CASES.

ARTICLE 19. In obeying and construino these rules due re-

gard must be had to all dangers of navigation, and due regard
must also be had to any special circumstances which may exist
in any particular case rendering a departure from the above
rules necessary in order to avoid immediate danger.

No

SHIP UNDER ANY CIRCU3ST.XCES TO NEGLECT PROPER PRECAUTIONS.

20. Nothing in these rules shall exonerate any ship,
or the owner, or master, or crew thereof, from the consequences of any neglect to carry lights, or signals, or of any
neglect to keep a proper lookout, or of the neglect of any precaution which may be required by the ordinary practice of seamen, or by the special circumstances of the case."
ARTICLE

A reference to the statements of the original answer of the
Jones, and of her original cross-libel, shows, that the case she
first attempted to make was one under Article 11, of two sailing vessels meeting end on or nearly end on, so as to involve
risk of collision, where both are required to port. This is
shown by the averments that the Willis "was approaching the
Jones in an opposite direction from the course of the Jones;
that, when the light of the Willis was first seen, it was almost
dead ahead, and continued on that line as the vessels alm

THE ELIZABETH JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

proached each other;" and that the Jones, seeing danger of a
collision, ported, but the Willis starboarded. After the trial
before the District Court, the amended answer and the
amended cross-libel set up a case where the Jones saw, on her
port bow, the red light of the Willis; that light continued to
show more on the port bow of the Jones; the Willis did not
see the green light of the Jones; and immediately before the
collision, the Jones began to port her helm, but, seeing that the
Willis was starboarding, changed her helm to starboard. This
new theory on the part of the Jones as to her defence indicates
plainly that she was conscious that her porting was a wrong
manceuvre, and that she undertook to account for the collision
by alleging that she saw the red light of the Willis on her'
port bow, and that it opened more on that bow, and hat the
Willis, by starboarding after that, came , oss
c- her path. This
theory is negatived by the findings of tha Cir~uit Court.
The salient facts exhibited in those findings are as follows:
The Willis was sailing east by north. The Jon'es was sailing a
general coarse southwest by west half west, steering by the
wind. The collision occurred at a quarter before two A. 3r. At
twelve midnight the wind was east. At twenty minutes past
one, twenty-five minutes before the collision, the wind was
southeast. At that time, if the Jones was sailing southwest
by west half west, her course was nine points and a half from
the wind, and she was not close-hauled. She could certainly,
though a bark, hold the wind at seven points off. At the
same time, the Willis, if sailing east by north, was five points
from the wind. The wind being a six-knot breeze, it is plain,
in view of the combined speed of the vessels, that they had not
yet seen each other twenty-five minutes before the collision.
The wind was hauling to the southward, and changed the four
points, to south, in those twenty-five minutes. If, because of
that change of the wind, the Jones, to hold the wind, fell off
to seven points from the wind, she would be heading west by
south, or directly opposite to the east by-north course of the
Willis.
The Willis made-the green light of the Jones -about half a
point on her starboard bow, about three miles off. and contin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.'
Opinion of the Couit.

ued to see that green light till the Jones was within a length
off, when the Jones opened her red light. As soon as the
Willis saw the green light of the Jones, she put her, own green
light against it by starboarding, and went off a point, and then
steadied; that is, she headed east-northeast. It follows, that
she showed her green light to the Jones. This starboarding
by the Willis was when the vessels were about three mile
apart, and from fifteen to eighteen minutes before the collision,
as their combined speed was from ten to twelve miles an hour.
The Jones must have seen that the Willi was falling off, and
trying to get out of her way. Green light to green light was
safety. When the Willis thus headed east-northeast, the green
light of the Jones was one point and a half ou her.starboard
bow. When the vessels were about two miles apart, that is,
from ten to twelve minutes, the Willis fell off one point more,
to northeast by east, and the green light of the Jones got to be
two points on her starboard bow. All this time the Willis was
trying to get out of the way of the Jones. She did so in a
proper manner, by carrying her own green light away from
the green light of the Jones, and by taking a course which did
not and could not cross the course of the Jones. When the
Willis thus, at two miles distance from-the Jones, headed
northeast by east, the Jones, with the wind south, would, if
close-hauled at seven points from the wind, head no farther off
than west by south. At the collision, the Willis was heading
northeast, or one point more off; and the starboard side of
the stem of the Jones struck the starboard side of the Willis
amidships, at about right angles. To do this, the Jones
must have headed about northwest, which was a. change, by
porting, of five points from her course of west by south,
v-hich latter course, with the wind south, would have allowed
her, at seven points off, to be close-hauled, and have her sails
full.
The Jones ran into danger by porting. She did not port to
avoid collision or immediate danger. She ported when she
must have seen, all the time, that the Willis was going away
from her. This porting by the Jones was no part of keeping
her course, and it caused the collision. It was a departure, by

THE ELIZABETH JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

the Jones, from the course which the Willis, constantly sdeing"
the green light of the Jones, had a right to think the Jones.
would keep, especially in view of the persistent falling off of
the Willis. It was, therefore, a change of course by the Jones.
It was a change, by her, across the course of the Willis, to the
extent of five poifts beyond her close-hauled course of west by
south.
Conceding it to have been the duty of the Willis, under
article 12, to keep out of the way of the Jones, it was equally
the duty of the latter not to baffle or prevent the efforts of the
Willis to that end. Hek departure from the requirement of
article 18, that she should keep her course, cannot be justified under article 19, because there were no special circumstances which rendered such departure necessary in order
to avoid immediate danger. In The Elizabeth Jenins, L. R.
1 P. 0. App. 501, it is laid down, that if a ship bound to keep
her course under article 18, justifies her departure from that
course under the words of article 19, she takes upon herself
the obligation of showing, boththat her departure was, at the
time it took place, necessary, in order to avoid immediate
danger, and that the course adopted by her was reasonably
calculated to avoid that danger. Under article 20, the special
circumstances of the case required that the Jones should be
careful not to port as and when she did. Article 20 was in
force at the time of this collision, although it is not re-enacted.
in the fRevised Statutes. Why it was omitted is not apparent,
as it had not been repealed. It was one of the articles in the
British act of 1862, 25 and 26 Vict., ch. 63, from which our
act of .1861 was taken, and it still remains an article in the
regulations promulgated by the British order in council of
August 14, 1879, 4 P. D. 241, which states that it has been
made to appear that the government of the United States is
willing that those regulations shall apply to ships of the
United States, whether within British jurisdiction or not, after
September 1, 1880. We do not'intend to intimate, however,
that the precautions it enacts are not to be enforced as parts of
the gereral law of navigation, though. not now erhbodied in
any statute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court held that each of the changes recited in
the findings of fact, as having been made by the Jones, was
improper; and that the changes recited therein as having been
made by the Willis were proper. In regard to the Jones, it is
contended for her that she was at liberty to make such variations from her course as the wind rendered necessary, to enable her to keep her sails filled and keep on her port tack. It
must be concluded, from the fourth finding of fact and the
third conclusion of law, that the Jones was manceuvred on two
occasions in such a manner as, first, to allow her sails to shake,
and, second, to allow her to fall off and fill her sails; that this
falling off was effected by putting her helm up or to port; and
that the Circuit Court regarded these manceuvres as changes
and as improper ones. In view of what it is found the Willis
was doing, it is plain that these changes were calculated to
baffle the efforts of the Willis, by starboarding, to get away
from the Jones; and that they amounted to a following up of
the Willis by the Jones. Although the wind had got as far as
south, the Jones had no right to persist in falling off toward
the Willis to an extent sufficient to produce a collision, when
the Willis was all the while going away in the same direction.
The duty of the Jones to keep her course did not permit her
to do so in such'a way as to bring about a collision with a
vessel whose green light was constantly receding. There is no
idea appertaining to keeping a course which justifies holding
to it in such way as to bring on a peril. The only principle
inherent in it is to so act as to enable the other vessel, on
whom the duty rests, to adopt with success means of getting
out of the way.
It is apparent that, notwithstanding the alleged endeavor of
the Jones to keep close-hauled, with the wind south, the Willis,
by her starboarding two points, from a course east by north to
a course northeast by east, would have gone clear of the Jones,
but for the porting of the Jones, as found in the fifth finding of
fact, which carried her head around at least five points towards
the Willis.* The following diagram illustrates the courses and
bearings of the two vessels, prior to any starboarding by the
Willis and to any porting by the Jones:

THE ELIZABETH JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

WILLIS

It shows the Willis on a course east by north, and the Jones
on a course southwest by west half west, five points and a half
from south. At that time the vessels were three miles apart,
or fifteen to eighteen minutes. When they were two miles
apart, or ten to twelve minutes, after the Willis had twice starboarded, and to northeast by east, the green light of the Jones
bore two points on the starboard bow of the Willis. Then,
with any proper falling off of the Jones to hold a south wind,
even to the extent of seven points, or to west by south, when
the Willis was on a course northeast by east, or two points
away from the course of the Jones, there would have been no
collision, if the Jones had not ported five points more.
It is contended for the Jones that the Willis should have
ported, instead of starboarding. But, as she saw the green
light of the Jones on her starboard bow, to have ported would
have thrown her across the course of the Jones, as shown by
the following diagram:
,JONESx

'°

WILLIS

By starboarding and going away from the green light of the
Jones, the Willis took a course of safety, and, in the language
of the cases "determined the risk." Article 12 applies only to
cases where the vessels "are crossing so as to involve risk of
collision." Even assuming, on the facts found, that these vessels were crossing, so as to involve risk of collision, when they
first sighted each other, the Willis "determined the risk" when

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

she had gone off two points by starboarding, and brought
green light to green light. This is the point in judgment in
The Earl of Elgin, L. IR.4 P. C. App. 1.
But it is urged for the: Jones that the porting mentioned in
the fifth finding was a porting in ext'emis, and, therefore, excusable. The finding is not to that effect. The changes made
bytthe Willis are found to have been proper and were proper.
This being so, no fault of the Willis induced the final act of
porting by the Jones. To be an excusable mistake in ecetremis,
a pardonable manceuvre, though contributing to or inducing a
collision, when the manoeuvre would have. been faulty if not
excusable, it must be one produced by fault or mismanagement
in the other vessel. 2Tew York & Liverpool Steamship Co.
v. 1?umball, 21 How. 372, 383; Thke 3Tichols, 7 Wall. 656, 666;
The .Carroll,8 Id. 302, 305; The Dexter, 2S Id. 69, 76; The
Bywell Castle, 4 P. D. 219. The last case is a well-considered
judgment by Lords Justices James, Brett and Cotton, in the
Court of Appeal, and the rule there formulated is, that "where
one ship has, by wrong manceuvres, placed another ship in a
position of extreme danger, that other ship will not be held to
blame if she has done something wrong, and has not been
manceuvred with perfect skill and presence of mind."
On the whole case, we are of opinion that
Te decree of the Circuit Court must be affirmed, but without
interest o2h the amount of that decree.

BRITTON & Another v. THORNTON.
IN ERROR. TO THE CIRCUIT COIURT *OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
'WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued November 26, 18S4.-Declded December 15, 1884.

Under a devise to one person infee, and, in case he should die under age and

without children, to another in fee, the devise over takes effect upon, the
death at any time of the first devisee under age and without childrein.
A testator devised to E, daughter of his son N, a parcel of land in fee, provided that should E die in her minority, and without lawful issue then

