BATES COUNTY v. WINTERS.
Syllabus.

inaugurated by this contract, and probably a larger interest
than any other party to the agreement, and clearly sait that it
must make this advance, the only thing it did in the matter, at
the risk of the success of the adventure, with such security for
obtaining a return out of the proceeds of it as the contract
gave.
A stipulation of the parties was made on submitting the case
to the court below, that, if that court held that no liability under the contract attached beyond that for a proportion of the
gross receipts, there were no such receipts in defendant's hands,
and the bill should be dismissed without requiring an accounting.
The Circuit Court construed the contract as we do, and its
decree dismissing the bill is therefore
4ffirmed

MRi.

JUsTICE BLATCHFoRD

took no part in the decision of this

case.

BATES COUNTY v. WINTERS & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued Novemnber 12, 184.-Decided November 24, 1884.

A vote by a County Court in Mkissouri subscribing to the capital stock of a
railroad company on certain conditions named in.the vote, and directing
a desigoated agent to make the subscription on the stock books of the company, and to copy the conditions in full thereon; and a presentation of the
subscription and of the conditions in writing by the agent in person to the
directors at a directors' meeting ; and the acceptance of them by the board
with a direction that the same be spread upon the record books of the company, constituted a subscription to the stock, although no actual subscription was made by the agent personally on the stock books.
In Missouri the consolidation of two or more railroad companies organized
under the general law does not avoid subscriptions made to the stock of
either, or invilidate the delivery of municipal bonds to the consolidated company in payment of such subscriptions.

This was a suit to recover on" bonds issued by the plain-

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tiff in error in payment of a subscription to the stock of a railroad company. The facts are stated in the opinion.
Xr. G. G. TFst, Mr. John R. Shepley and Xr. John -M.
Glover for plaintiff in error submitted on their briefs.
.A&. T. J. Skinker and Xr.John B. Henderson for defendants in error.

i. CmarF JUSTICE WArri delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was before this court at the October Term, 1877,
and is reported as County of Bates v. Winters, 97 U. S. 83. It
came up then on a special finding of facts, and the judgment
below was reversed because it did not appear that the County
Court had actually subscribed to the capital stock of the Lexington, Chillicothe and Gulf Railroad Company before the
consolidation. Instead, however, of directing a judgment to
be entered in favor of the county on those findings, as would
have been the proper practice in the absence of any showing
to the contrary, -FortScott v. Mickman, ante, 150, a new trial,
"according to the views expressed in the opinion," was ordered. We must presume that this was done for sufficient reasons. In the findings then presented the order of the County
Court for the subscription, and the appointment of Betz to
make the subscription on the books of the company, are set
forth substantially as in those which are now before us. The
same is true of what was done by Betz, at the meeting of the
directors of the company, when he presented the copy of the
record of the proceedings of the County Court, and the directors refused to allow him to withdraw his papers. His presence at the later meeting was also stated, as well as his final
report to the County Court, and the action of the court thereon.
The ground of the reversal is apparent from the, following extract from the opinion of the court (p.'90), which was delivered
by Mr. Justice Hunt:
"The County Court did not intend their action in June,
1870, to be final, and did not understand that a subscription
was thereby completed. Their vote was a declaration that

BATES COUNTY v. WINTERS.
Opinion of the Court.

the power to subscribe should be exercised and was an authority to their agent to perfect a contract with the railroad
company on the conditions set forth. No acceptance was
made by the railroad company, no notice of acceptance was
given, nor was there any act or fact which afforded a pretext
for saying that the railroad company was bound by the contract of subscription. While it refused to allow the agent to
withdraw his evidence of authority, it said nothing and did
nothing to indicate that the minds of the parties had met upon
the terms of a subscription.- The County Court was precise
and particular in requiring those conditions to be copied in full
on the books of the company, as the conditions on which the
subscriptions were made; and there could be no mutual contract until the railroad company assented, on its part, to those
conditions."
In considering what was necessary to complete a valid subscription, the cases of .Arugent v. Le Sujervisors,19 Wall. 241,
and County of .2foultriev. Roelknglwvn Savings'Banke, 92 U. S.
631, were cited, and the rule upon that subject as recognized
in those cases was in all respects approved. That rule may be
stated thus: An actual manual subscripfion on the books of a
railroad company is not indispensably necessary to bind a
municipality as a subscriber to the capital stock. If the body
or agency having authority to make sftch a subscription passes
an ordinance or resolution to the effect that it does thereby, in
the name and on behalf of the municipality, subscribe a specified amount of stock, and presents a copy of that ordinance or
resolution to the company for.accept ance as a subscription, and
the company does, in fact, accept, and notifies the municipality,
or its proper- agent, to that effect, the contract of subscription
is complete, and binds the parties accordingto its terms.
From the findings in this case on the new trial it appears
that the County Court passed an order "that the sum of ninety
thousand dollars be, and the same is hereby, subscribed to the
capital stock of the Lexington, Chillicothe & Gulf R. R. Company in the name and in behalf of Mount Pleasant Township,
subject to and in pursuance of all the terms, restric-tions, conditions, and limitations of the petition of the tax-pay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Cour

ers and residents;" and it at the same time authorized and directed Betz, who was the agent of the county to represent its
interest in the company, to make the subscription on the stock
books of the company, and in making the subscription to have
copied in full the orders of the court ofthe 5th of April, 1870,
as the conditions on which the same was made. As was very
properly said when the case was here before, this order "was
not intended to be final and self-executing." It needed an acceptance by thie company to make it complete and binding as
a subscription. On the new trial such an acceptance was shown,
and in the findings then made it appears that Betz was present,
for the purpose of making the subscription, at a meeting of the
directors of the company on the 17th of June, 1870; that he
presented to the board for acceptance a copy of the record of
the proceedings of the County Court at the meeting on the 5th
of April, and at the meeting when the subscription was ordered
and he was directed to make it on the books of the company.
Upon the presentation of these °orders of the County Court
they were read, and, after the reading, "were ordered by the
board to be spread upon the record books of this company,
and, on motion, the subscriptions made and specified in the
orders to the capital stock of the Lexington, Chillicothe & Gulf R. R. Co. were accepted by the board of directors of the said company." At the same time, by order of the
directors, the secretary indorsed on the back of the papers
"Filed and accepted June 17,1870." It is difficult to see what
more was necessary to bind the parties. Undoubtedly, if there
had been at that time any book prepared in which subscriptions
were to be made, Betz would have entered the subscription of
the County Court in that book in proper form. But what he
did was in its legal effect the same. He presented the action
of the County Court in respect to the subscription for acceptance. That action was in the form of a present subscription
upon certain conditions, and in his presence it was, when presented, formally accepted by a resolution of the directors as
and for a subscription to the capital stock of the company.
We say it was done in the presence of the agent. That is the
fair inference from the record. The finding is that Betz went

BATES COUNTY v. WINTERS.
Opinion of the Court.

on the 14th of June to make the subscription. The meeting of
the directors was held on the 17th of that month, and the
minutes show that he presented the papers from the County
Court at that meeting. 4e was also appointed at that time to
act as the agent of the company in obtaining municipal subscriptions. According to the minutes the orders of the County
Court were read on their presentation, and at once, on motion,
accepted as a subscription made. It also appears from the
findings that another meeting of the directors was held on the
25th of August, at which Betz was present. At this -meeting
the minutes of the preceding meeting, which was presumably
that of the 17th of June, were read and approved. Those
minutes contained at length the orders of the County Court
which had been presented by Betz, and the acceptance thereof
by the board.
If the minutes of the board are correct, and it does not appear that any attempt was made to impeach them, "the . minds
of the parties met" on the 17th of June, and the county subscribed $90,000 to the capital stock of the Lexington, Chillicothe
& Gulf Conpany, before the consolidation, on certain conditions, and the subscription received the formal acceptance of
the company. It is undoubtedly true that Betz, as well as the
county, supposed that an actual subscription on the books was
necessary, and that he afterwards went to the office of the
company to make it, and while there, for reasons satisfactory
to himself, concluded not to do so. All these facts, save, perhaps, the action of the directors on the 17th of June, he reported to the County Court, and the court approved what he
had done; but supposing something more was necessary to
complete the subscription, another agent was appointed for that
purpose, who finally made a formal subscription to the stock
of the consolidated company. That, however, did not avoid
the subscription which had actually been made before. This
court decided in fHarshman v. Bates County, 92 U. S. 569, and
County of Bates v. "Mters, supra, that this last subscription
was invalid, but never until the last trial of this case has it been
shown that another and a valid subscription had been made at
the earlier date which rendered another unnecessary. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

former decisions have all been upon the assumption that the
last was the only subscription ever made, and as it was made
to the consolidated company, when the vote only authorized a
subscription to the Lexington, Chillicothe & Gulf Company, it
was held to be inoperative and not binding on the township
for which the court was acting as agent.
As Betz, the agent of the County Court, was present at the
meeting when the subscription was made "adaccepted, no
other notice of the acceptance of the subscription was necessary. He was present as the agent of the County Court, and
notice to him was notice to the court. The case stands in this
particular precisely as it would if Betz had in form subscribed
to the stock on the books of the company, and in making such
subscription had copied in full, as he was instructed to do, the
orders of the County Court. The acceptance of such a subscription from him by the company Would certainly be enough.
No further notice of acceptance was required. As Betz was
authorized to make the subscription, he was authorized to receive notice of its acceptance. What was in fact done amounted
in law to the making of a valid subscription by him for the
County Court and its acceptance in his presence by the company.
As the Lexington, Chillicothe and Gulf Company was organized under the general railroad law of Missouri, which author-'
ized consolidations, the subsequent consolidation of that coinpany with another organized under the same law did not avoid
the subscription whiih was made to its stock on the 17th of
June, and the bonds in payment of the subscription were properly delivered to the consolidated company. That has been
many times decided. .New Bvfalo v. Iron Co., 105 U. S. 73,
and the cases there cited.
Thejudgmcnti9 afflrmed.

