ARTHUR v. MORGAN.
Syllabus.

also the law of many other States in. the absence of statutory
regulation. It is the doctrine of the common law. But where
no such ceremonies are required, and no record is made to attest the marriage, some public recognition of it is necessary as
evidence of its exister-.e. The protection of the parties and
their children and considerations of public policy require this
public recognition; and it may be made in any way which can
be seen and known by men, such as living together as man and
wife, treating each other and speaking of each other in the
presence of third parties as being in that relation, and declaring
the relation in documents executed by them whilst living together, such as deeds, wills, and other formal instruments. From
such recognition the reputation of being married will obtain
among friends, associates, and acquaintances, which is of itself
evidence of a persuasive character. Without it the existence of
the marriage will always be a matter of uncertainty; and the
charge of the court should direct the jury to its necessity in the
absence of statutory regulations on the subject. Otherwise the
jury would be without any guide in their deliberations.
The law of Pennsylvania, as we are advised, requires, in some
form, such recognition. See -Vath an's Case, 2 Brewster, 149,
153; Commonwealth v,Shwnp, 53 Penn. St. 132.
Judgment reversed and cause ''emanded for a new trial.

ART=UR, Collector, v. MORGAN.
IN

ElhEOR

TO

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted November 2G, 1884.-Decided December 22, 1884.
A carriage in use abroad for a year by its owner, wno brings it to this country

for his own use here, and not for another person nor for sale, is "household effects" under 2305 Rev. Stat. (p. 484, 2d ed.), and free from duty.
A protest against paying 85 per cent. duty on the carriage, which states that
the carriage is "personal effects," and had been used over a year (as shown

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
by, affidavit), and thatunder § 2505 of the Revised Statutes, "personal
effects in actual use" are free from duty, is a sufficient protest, on which
the amount paid for deity can be recovered back on the ground that the
carriage was free from duty as "household effects," under the same section.

Julia Morgan imported into the .port of New York, from
Europe, in May, 1876, a carriage, on which, at the appraised
value of $667, the collector exacted a duty of, 35 per cent.,
amounting to $233.45, under the following provision of Schedule Ml of § 2504 -of the Revised Statutes (p. 474, -2d ed.):
"Carriages and parts of carriages: thirty-five per centum ad
valorem." She protested in writing to the collector against
paying the 35 per cent. duty, on the ground that the carriage
was "personal effects" and lad been used by her "over a
year," and that she had shown that fact by.affidavit, and that,
under § 2505 of the Revised Statutes, "personal effects in
actual use" (Ib. 487) were free from duty. She appealed from
the decision of the collector to the Secretary of the Treasury,
and ho affirmed it, and then she brought this suit. At the
trial the above facts were shown, and the plaintiff proved that
the affidavit referred to was to the effect that the carriage was
old and had been in use by her abroad for more than one year
before its importation; that the affidavit was deposited with
the defendant, and transmitted by him to the Secretary, with
the appeal; that she was a nitive citizen of the United States,
and had lived abroad some three years, as a temporary resident,
prior to the importation, and had returned to this country
about two weeks before the importation; that the carriage
had been purchased by her in France, and had been used by
her as a family carriage abroad for more than one year before
its importation; and that it was imported by her for her own
use in this country, and was not intended for any other person
or persons or for sale. The defendant offered no testimony,
but moved the court to direct a verdict for the defendant on
the following grounds:
. "First; that no evidence was offered to support the claim
made in the plaintiff's protest, that the carriage was a personal
effect in actual use, within the meaning of that term as used in
-section 2505 Revised Statutes of the United States.

ARTHUTR a,. MORGAN .
Opinion bf the Court.

"Second; that the said protest was insufficient to raise the
point that the carriage was included within the meaning of
the term 'household effects,' as that term is used in section
2505 Revised Statutes of the United States.
"Third; that, even if the protest be considered sufficient to
raise the last point, the carriage in question cannot properly be
held to be included within the true sense and meaning of the
term 'household effects,' as that term is used in section -505
Revised Statutes of the United States."
The court denied the motion on each ground, and the
defendant excepted to each ruling. A verdict was rendered
for the plaintiff, the court having directed it on the ground
that, on the testimony and within the meaning of § 2505,
the carriage was "a household effect," and the exaction of
duties was illegal. The defendant excepted to the direction,
and, after a judgment against him, brought this writ of error.

.Xr. Solcitar-Generalfor plaintiff in error.
-35. L. "F. "nersorfor defendant in error.
MR. JrsTIcE BLATCnwoR

delivered the opinion of the court.

He recited the facts as stated above, and continued:
It was provided by § 2505 of the Revised Statutes of 1874,
that the importation of the following articles should be exempt
fr, n duty:
1. "Books, household effects, or libraries, or parts of libraries, in use, of persons or families from foreign countries, if used
abroad by them not less than one year, and not intended for
any other person or persons, nor for sale." (P. 484, 2d ed.)
2. "Personal and household effects, not merchandise, of citizens of the United States dying abroad." (P. 487, 2d ed.)
3. "'Wearing apparel in actual use, and other personal effects
(not merchandise), professional books, implements, instruments,
and tools of trade, occupation or 6mployment of persons arriving- in the United States. But this exemption shall not be construed to include machinery, or other articles imported for use
in any manufacturing establishment, or for sale." (P. 489,
2d ed.)
VOL. cxii-82

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.'
Opinion of the Oour.

By § 1 of the act of August 10, 1790, ch. 39, 1 Stat. 181,
there were exempted from duty, "the clothes, books, household
furniture, and the tools or implements of the trade or profession
of persons who come to reside in the United States." This exemption was continued by § 2 of the act of May 2, 1792, tn.
27, 1 Stat. 260.
As to the above clause 1, Schedule I of the act of July 30,
184:6, ch. 74, 9 Stat. 49, exempted from duty "household effects, old and in use, of persons or families from foreign countries, if used abroad by them, and not intended for any other
person or persons, or for sale." The same exemption was continued in § 3 of the act of M]karch 3, 1857, ch. 98, 11 Stat.
194, and in § 23 of the act of March 2, 1861, ch. 68, 12 Id.
195. by § 22 of the act of July 14, 1870, ch. 255, 16 Id.
265, 268, exemption was extended, in addition, to "household
effects of persons and families returning or emigrating from
foreign countries, which have been in actual use abroad by
them, and not intended for any other person or persons, or for
sale, not exceeding the value of five hundred dollars." The
above clause 1 first appeared in § 5 of the a-et of June 6, 1872,
ch. 315, 17 Stat. 234, and is now in force as part of § 2503
of the Revised Statutes, by virtue of § 6 ot the act of March 3,
1883, ch. 121, 22 Stat. 518.
As to the above clause 2, § 9 of the act of August 80, 1842,
ch. 270, 5 Stat. 560, exempted from duty "books, and personal
and household effects, not merchandise, of citizens of the
United States dying abroad." Omitting the words "books
and" this "provisionwas repeated in Schedule I of the act of
July -30, 1846, ch. 74, 9 Stat. 49, and in § 3 of the act of
March 3, 1857, ch. 98, 11 Id. 194, and in § 23 of the act of
March 2, 1861, ch. 68, 12 Id. 195, and is now in force as part
of § 2503-of the Revised Statutes, by virtue of § 6 of the act of
March 3, 1883, ch. 121, 22 Stat. 520.
The history of clause 3 above is fully given in A stor v.._3eiilt, 111 U. S. 210.
Iii June, 1876, the Attorney-General advised the Secretary of
the Treasury that the words "personal effects," in clause 83
above, did not include carriages previously in use; but only

ARTHUR v. MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

such things as are worn, like apparel, upon the person, or are
used in connection therewith; and shortly afterwards he advised the same officer that the words "household effects," in
clause 1 above, did not include carriages used abroad not less
than one year and intended for personal use here. 15 OpInions,
113,125. On this construction the department has acted. The
last opinion proceeded on the grotind that early and repeated
decisions in England had held that. books, wares, horses; &c.,
did not pass under bequests of "household goods and effects,"
and that the express mention of books, in clause 1, and the
omission of other articles so determined not to be included under the general term "househoU effects," indicated that "carriages" were not within the exemption.
The word "effects" means "property or worldly substance."
When it is accompanied, in a, will, by words of narrow3r import, the bequest, if not residuary, may be confined to species
of property juvsd imgen,ris with those previously described.
But the analogies to be derived from wills are not strictly applicable to a case like the present, and no material aid can be
derived from decisions in regard to wills. The construction of
the words "household effects" in a will often depends largely
on the meaning of words in other provisions in the will, and
upon the qualification by the word "other," as referring to
specific articles before named, like the word "other" in clause
3 above. In the present case the only direct qualification of
" effects" is "household."
Persons who dwell together as a family constitute a "household." In New York, a statute exempted from execution a
cow "owned by any person being a householder." In Woodtwa,'c v. .liwtray, IS Johns. 400, a judgment debtor, who owned
a cow, had left his wife and children, they continuing to reside
in the house he had occupied. While they were on the road,
removing to the house of the wife's father, with the cow and
their household furniture, the cow was seized on execution.
The court held that the exemption continued so long as the
wife and children remained together "as a family," and that
they continued to be the debtor's "household" and he the
"householder."

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court .

The question for decision in this case is, whether the carriage
of the plaintiff fell under either of these heads: (1) "household
effects, in use, of a person or a family from a foreign country,
used abroad by the person or the family not less than one year,
and not intended for any other person or persons, nor for sale ; ".
(2) "persbnal effects (not merchandise), nor for sale, of a person
arriving in the United States."
The carriage had been in use as a family carriage, abroad,
by the plaintiff, as owner, for more than a year. She. came
from abroad after a temporary residence there of, three years,
and imported the carriage two weeks later for use here, and
not for any other person nor for sale. Was it "household
effects" or "personal effects" of the plaintiff ? We think that
it fell within clause 1 and was "household effects."
In the provision respecting the "household effects" of persons or families, there is an evident intention to include articles
which pertain to a person as a householder or to a family as a
household, which have been used abroad not less'than a year,
and are not intended for others nor for sale. A"carriage is
peculiarly a family or household article. It contributes, in a
large degree, to the health, convenience, comfort and welfare
of the householder or of the family. The statute is not limited
to articles of household furniture, or to things whose place is
necessarily within the four walls of a house. Clause 2 above
uses the words "personal and household effects." This serves
to show that, by the use of the words "household effects,"
alone, in clause 1, in the same section of the statute, something
is intended different from "personal effects;" and that those
words embrace articles which the words "personal effects" do
not cover. So, too, if the words "" other personal effects," in
clause 3, should be extended to embrace articles properly covered by the words "household effects" in clause 1, such household effects would come in free, although not used abroad for
a year, and the door would be opened wide for the introduction, without duty, of large numbers of articles, as "household
effects," which it is intended should pay duty. We do not find
it necessary, in this case, to consider any further the construction of the words "other personal effects," in-clause 3,because

ARTHUR v. MORGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

we place our decision on the ground that this carnage was
"household effects" of the plaintiff.
The protest claimed that the carriage was "personal effects"
in actual use, under b 2505, and, as such, free and not subject
to the duty imposed on it, but did not claim it to be "household effects." The solicitor-general-concedes that the objection to the protest is a "bare technicality," and that its language could hardly mislead the officers. A proper protest, as
well as an appeal, are prerequisites to the right to sue. § 3011
Rev. Stat., as amended by the act of February 27, 1877,
ch. 69, 19 Stat. 247. The protest must set forth "distinctly
and specifically" the grounds of objection to the decision of
the collector as to the rate and amount of duties. § 2931 Rev.
Stat. This provision was taken from the act of June 30, 1864,
ch. 171, § 14, 13 Stat. 214, and is substantially the same as
that in the act of February 26, 1845, ch.. 22, 5 Id. 727. A
protest is not required to be made with technical precision, but
is sufficient if it shows fairly that the objection, afterwards
made at the trial was in the mind of the party and was
brought to the knowledge of the collector, so as to secure to
the government the practical advantage which the statute was
designed to secure.: Oonverse v. Burgeqs, 18 How. 413; 82wan1 Curtis, 294; -Yriesler v. on'ton, Id. 413;
M
staon v. .rton,
Burgess v. COonversei-2 Id. 216; Steegnmn v. ._3auzOell,3 Blatchford, 365; .Frazee v. Xofftt, 20 Id. 267. This protest apprised
the collector that the carriage was claimed to be free, under
§ 2505, as a carriage actually used abroad over a year. The
"household effects" clause was in the mind of the party and
the collector could not fail to so understand. The protest was
sufficient.
The judgmen t of the Cirouit Court is aJfflmed.

