OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

dded from Mrs. Burche, to which we see no valid objection, so
far, at least, as the amount for which she had a lien at the date
of Mr. Kennedy's sale is concerned, and which is the amount
allowed her by the court in special term as a lien. She has
asserted the same claim and lien constantly ever since. She
did not abandon them by assenting to the re-sale provided for
by the decree of January 3d, 1880. In fact that decree, so far
as the $7,429.02 adjudged by it to be due' to Mrs. Mellen and
to have been a lien on the property on the day of Mr. Kennedy's sale, and so far as Mrs. Mellen's claim to that extent is
concerned, may properly be regarded as ordering a re-sale to
enforce Mrs. Mellen's rights under the deed of trust to Mr.
Kennedy. Such is its effect. Astor v. .iller, 2 Paige, 68;
Olott v. Bynum, 17 Wall. 63; .fackey v. Langley, 92 U. S.
142, 155.
The decree of the court in general term, made July 9th, 1881,
is reversed, and the cause is remanded to that court, with
direction to afflrm, with costs, the decree of the court in
sTecial term made December 29th, 1880, and to take or direct svohfurtherproceedingsas may be in conformity with
law and not inconsistent with this opinion.

BUTTERWORTHI, Commissioner of Patents, v. UNITED
STATES ex rel. HOE & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLTMBIA.
Argued Oct.ber 15, 16, 184.-Decided November 3,1884.
The Secretary of the Interior has no power by law to revise the acti 6 n of the
Commissioner of Patents in awarding to an applicaht priority of invention,
and adjudging him entitled to a patent. The legislation on this subject
examined and reviewed.
The executive supervision and direction which the head of a department may,
exerpise over his subordinates in matters administrative and executive do
not extend to matters in which the subordinate ;z directed by statute to act
judicially.

BUTTERWORTH v. HOE.
Opinion of the Court.
The action of the Commissioner of Patents in awarding or refusing a patent to
an applicant, and in matters of that description, is quasi-judicial.
The Commissioner of Patents, after determining that a patent shall issue, acts
ministerially in preparing the patent for the signature of the Secretary, and
in countersigning it. And if he then refuses to perform those ministerial

acts nzandamus will be directed.
The remedy by bill in equity, under Rev. Stat. § 4915, applies only when the
court decides to reject an application for a patent on the ground that the
applicant is not, on the merits, entitled to it.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Y'.Solicitor Generalas Amicus Curie; and for the Commissioner of Patents, plaintiff in error.
2.5. A.

..Bradleyfor Scott.

.lI'. A. J. Tillard for defendants in error.
Mn. Jusnon@ 3\1Lrrmuws delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error prosecuted for the purpose of reviewing and reversing the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columnbia, awarding a peremptory mandamus commanding the plaintiff in error, the Commissioner of Patents, to
receive the final fee of $20 tendered by the relators, and cause
letters patent of the United States to R. Hoe & Co., as assignees of Gill, to be prepared and sealed, according to law,
for a certain invention therein particularly described, and to be
presented to the Secretary of the Interior for his signaturm.
The facts upon which the controversy arises are shown by
the record to be as follows: On March 12th, 1881, .Gill, one of
the relators, made application in due form to the Commissioner
of Patents for letters patent for certain new and useful improvements in printing machines, of which he claimed to be the
original and first inventor. An interference was declared with
an unexpired patent, No. 238,720, gTanted to Walter Scott,
March 8th, 1881. A hearing was had before the examiner of
interferences, who decided in favor of Scott, and, on appeal to
the examiners-in-chief, that decision was affirmed. An appeal
from that decision was taken by Gill to the Commissioner of
Patents, who decided that Gill was the original and first in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

ventor of the improvements claimed, and was entitled to a patent
therefor; and, on June 4th, 1883, adjudged that such patent
should issue to the relators composing the partnership of R.
Hoe & Co., as assignees of Gill, the inventor.
On June 14th, 1883, an appeal was taken by Scott from that
decision of the Commissioner of Patents to the Secretary of
the Interior, under rules prescribed by that officer, dated May
17th, 1883, who, on March 7th, 1884, reversed the decision of
the Commissioner of Patents in favor of Gill, adjudged Scott
to be the original and first inventor of the improvements
claimed, and that Gill was not entitled to a patent therefor.
In his return to the alternative writ the Commissioner of
Patents, admitting that he had refused, in compliance with the
demand of the relators, to accept their tender of the final fee,
and to prepare the patent for signature, and to take any further
steps therein, declares: "That he so refused, not because he
desired to make further inquiry, or to be further advised in
that behalf, no motion or other proceeding for rehearing or
review had been taken or was pending before him in that behalf, but that he based his refusal, and does so still, solely upon
the ground that the honorable the Secretary of the Interior
had entertained the appeal taken to him from said decision
under the rules aforesaid, and had, in pursuance of said appeal,
entered a decision reversing that of the Commissioner of
Patents, and awarded priority of invention to Walter Scott."
The return proceeds as follows:
"Your respondent further says that for many years, and
until 1881, .it was held, in pursuance of decisions and opinions
of the honorable Attorney-General made in that behalf, that
the honorable Secretary of the Interior had, and therefore
has, no legal authority to review on appeal a decision of the
Commissioner of Patents, wherein the Commissioner has
finally adjudged an applicant to be entitled to a patent as
prayed for in his application; in other words, that the judgment of the Commissioner of Patents upon the right of an
applicant to have and receive a patent is final and conclusive,
subject only to review by the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, and such other courts as have jurisdiction in that

BUTTERWORTH v. HOE.
Opinion of the Court.

behalf, and by the Commissioner; and the practice -of the
Patent Office and the honorable the Secretary of the Interior
conformed thereto. This question, however, was again raised in
the cases of ihokon v. Edison, and Le Bioy v. Hopkins, and the
honorable the Attorney-General of the United States, to whom
the question was again referred, in an opinion signed on the
26th day of August, ISSI, held that the honorable the Secretary of the Interior had and could, on appeal to him, exercise
the jurisdiction to review the decision of the Commissioner of
Patents, and control his action in that behalf ; and later on, to
wit, the 26th day of February, 1884, the honorable Secretary,
in an official letter (a copy of which is hereto attached, marked
E), advised your respondent that he, the honorable Secretary,
had, in pursuance of the opinion of the honorable AttorneyGeneral, exercised jurisdiction on appeal from the judicial
action of the Commissioner in determining questions devolved
upon him by the statute.
"In deference to that opinion and the action of the honorable the Secretary of the Interior in the case under consideration, your respondent refused, and does refuse, to accede to the
demand of the relator. That, in view of the decisions and the
uniform practice of the Commissioners of Patents and the
heads of the Department of the Interior prior to 1881, doubt
and uncertainty have arisen touching the legal obligations devolving upon your respondent in the case under consideration,
and those of like character.
"Your respondent further says that if the judgment of the
Commissioner of Patents, which is, that the relator is entitled
to receive his patent as prayed for, is final, and if upon such
judgment it is the lawful duty of the respondent to accept said
final fee and take the necessary and proper steps to prepare
said patent for issue, as prayed, then your respondent has improperly refused, and does improperly refuse, to prepare said
patent for issue; but if his decision is subject to review and reversal on appeal to the honorable the Secretary of the Interior,
then such refusal on the part of your respondent to accept said
fee and prepare said patent for issue is right and proper."
The return of the Commissioner also sets, out as exhibits the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

decision of his predecessor in 6ffice awarding priority of inveiLion to Gill and adjudging him to be entitled to a patent;
the appeal of Scott to the Secretary of the Interior ; the rules
governing such appeals as adopted and promulgated by that
officer; the decision on that appeal by the Secretary communicated by letter to the Commissioner, reversing the decision of
the Commissioner and awarding priority of invention to Scott,
and a subsequent letter of the Secretary to the Commissioner,
•dated February 26th, 1884, in which he states that at the request of his predeoessor, Mr. Kirkwood, in connection with the
cases of licholson v. Edison and Leroy v. HI.Tkins, the Attornay-General considered the question as to the extent of the
supervisory authority of the Secretary over the acts of the Commissioner, and, in an opinion dated August 20th, 1881, reached
the conclusion that the final discretion in all matters relating
to the granting of patents is lodged in the Secretary of the Interior; that Secretary Kirkwood concurred iin that opinion,
and from that time to the present, appeals from the judicial
action of the Commissioner of Patents have been considered by
the Secretary of the Interior; that the attention of Congress
was particularly directed to this new practice in the annual
report of the Secretary of the Interior for 1881, and that there
has not since been any legislative expression of dissent from the
interpretation the existing law had received; and that he does
not feel justified in discontinuing a practice which he finds thus
established.
It is clear enough that if the action of the Commissioner of
Patents, in the matter of controversy, is subject to the order of
the Secretary of the Interior, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia must be reversed; for mandamus evidently will n6t lie to compel a public officer to do a
particular thing which his superior in authority has lawfully
ordered him not to do.
The direct and immediate question, therefore, for our determination, is, whether the Secretary of the Interior had power
by law to revise and reverse the action of the Commissioner of
Patents in awarding to Gill priority of invention, and adjudlging him entitled to a patent.

BUTTERWORTH v. HOE.
Opinion of the Court.

The authority and power claimed for the Secretary of the
Interior are asserted and maintained upon these general
grounds: that he is the head of the department of which the
Patent Office is a bureau; that the Secretary is charged by
§ 441 Rev. Stat., with the supervision of public business relating to patents for inventions, in the same terms and in the
same sense as in the cases of the various other subjects which
in that section are classed together, to wit, the census, the
public lands, the Inaians, pensions, and bounty lands, the
custody and distribution of publications, etc.; that, by § 4883,
it is required that all patents shall be signed by the Sebretary,
as the responsible representative of the government, in whose
name the grant is made, and countersigned by the Commissioner
of Patents, only to attest the act of his superior; that, by
§ 481, while the Commissioner is required to superintend or perform all duties respecting the granting and issuing of patents
directed by law, it is thereby also provided that it must be
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior-a clause
to be read, it is argued, as if it were expressly insetted as a
qualification of every statutory duty imposed upon the Commissioner; that, by § 483, the regulations which, from time to
time, the Commissioner may establish for the conduct of proceedings in the Patent Office, are subject to the approval of the
Secretary; that, by § 487, the reasons for the refusal of the Commissioner to recognize any person as a patent agent, either generally oi in any particular case, are subject to the approval
of the Secretary; that this general relation of official subordination, with the accompanying powers of supervision
and direction, extends to all the official acts of the Commissioner, without regard. to any distinction between those
which are merely ministerial and those which are judicial in
their nature; and that such supervision and direction may
be exerted at any stage of a proceeding, in the discretion
of the Secretary, whether in advance, or during its progress,
or after its termination, and embraces, therefore, the mode
of appeal, though no appeal, in express terms, is actually
given.
And it is claimed that this conclusion is strengthened by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

analogy of the other bureaus, forming parts of the various
executive departments of the government, like that, for example, of the General Land Office, the Commissioner of which
is. by law, subject to the supervision of the Secretary of the
Interior, in respect to which it was decided, in tXagwire v.
*Tyler, 1 Black,,195, approved and affirmed in Snyder v.Sickles,
98 U. S. 203, that the power of supervision and appeal vested
in the Secretary extends to all matters relating to the General
Land Office, and is co-extensive with the authority of the
Commissioner to adjudge.
In reference to this argument from the analogy of the general relation of the heads of executive departments to their
b4ureau officers, it may as well be observed, in this connection,
that, although not without force, it will be very apt to mislead,
unless particular regard is had to the nature of the duties
entrusted to the several bureaus, and critical Attention is given
to the language of the statutes defining the jurisdiction of the
chief and his subordinates, and the special relation of subordination between them respectively; for it will be found, on
a careful examination, too extensive and minute to be entered
upon here, that the general relation between them, of superior
and inferior, is varied by the most diverse provisions, so that
in respect to some bureaus the connection with the department
seems almost clerical, and one of mere obedience to direction,
while in that of others the action of the officer, although a
subordinate, is entirely independent, and, so far as executive
control is concerned, conclusive and irreversible. And in respect to the particular illustration drawn from the relation of
the General Land Office to the Department of the Interior, the
language of the section of the Revised Statutes (§ 453) describes
the duties of the Commissioner, to be performed under the
direction of the Secretary, as executive duties, while those
which relate to the decision of questions of private right under
the pre-emption laws, being quasi-judicial, are made by § 2273
expressly subject to an appeal, first from the register and
receiver to the Commissioner, and from him to the Secretary.
Lytle V. Arkansas, 9 How. 314; Barnard'sHeirs v. Alsdey's
18"How. 43. Each case must be governed by its own
Eeis%

BUTTERWORTH v. HOE.
Opinion of the Court.

text, upon a ful view of all the statutory provisions intended
to express the meaning of the legislature.
To determine that intention of the legislature, in reference
to the principal question in the present case, it becomes important, in the first place, to obtain a clear idea of the nature
and extent of the jurisdiction involved in the claim, that all the
official acts of the Commissioner of Patents are subject to the
direction and superintendence of the Secretary of the Interior.
•If the Secretary is charged by law with the performance of
such a duty, he is bound to fulfil it. It is imperative, not discretionary. He cannot discharge it, according to the intention
of the statute, in a manner either arbitrary or perfunctory.
While it may be admitted that, so far as the public alone have
an interest in the proper performance by the Commissioner of
his duties in the administration of his bureau, the Secretary
might satisfy his duty of direction and superintendence by prescribing general rules of conducting the public business and
securing, by general oversight, conformity to them; yet, on the
other hand, it must also be admitted, that whenever a private
person acquires by law a personal interest in the performance
by the Commissioner of any act, he thereby also acquires an
individual interest in the direction and supervision of the Secretary, to correct any error, or supply any omission or defect in
its performance, tending to his injury. It is a maxim of the
law, admitting few if any exceptions, that every duty laid upon
a public officer, for the benefit df a private person, is enforceable by judicial process. So that the Secretary would be bound,
upon proper application, in every such instance, to inquire into,
and if necessary redress, the alleged grievance. And hence
the official duty of direction and supervision on the part of the
Secretary implies a correlative right of appeal from the Commissioner, in every case of complaint, although no such appeal
is expressly given. Such, indeed, is the practical construction
put by the Secretary himself upon his own powers and duties;
for the rules governing appeals to the Secretary of the Interior
in: patent cases, made part of the return here, assume the equal
right of all parties to the proceeding, whether exiarte or otherwise, to obtain his review of the action of the Commissioner,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

not only in the final judgment, but upon all interlocutory questions material to the matter, to the decision of which exceptions
have been duly taken during the progress of the inquiry.
It is further to be observed, in the same connection, that if
the power and duty of the Secretary, in directing and superintending the performance by the Commissioner of his duties,
and those of all other subordinates in the bureau, may be exercised in the form of appeal, it maLy also be exercised in any
other mode, in the discretion of the Se~retary, suitable to the
end in view; for, if directing and superintending include review by appeal after a decision, they may as well embrace
dictating, either in advance of actioil or from time to time,
during its course and progress. So that it follows, in every
case of an application for a patent, or for a reissue, or for an extension, or in cases of an interference, the Secretary may direct
the matter to be heard before hinself, and thereupon further
direct what decision shall be rendered in each m ter by the
Commissioner, so as to meet his approval. This right of interposition, at any stage of the proceeding, is explicitly maintained
in the opinion of the Attorney-General of August 20th, 1881,
which was made the basis for the reversal of the previous practice of the department in this particular, as will appear by the
following extract:
"From the right and power. of the Secretary to withhold
his signature from the patent, unless he is satisfied of the
claimant's title thereto, plainly follows an equal right to direct
the Commissioner, while the proceedings are pending, to receive
an amendment which will open up a line of evidence that may
throw light on that title."
We are led, therefore, immediately to inquire whether such
a construction of phrases, employed in establishing the organization of the Patent Office as a bureau in the Department of
the Interior, is justified by a view of the whole legislation in
_pa,1 matefri, and consistent with the integrity of the system
of the statutes in relation to letters patent for new and useful
inventions.
The general object of that system is to execute the intention
of that clause of the Constitution, Art. I., sec. VIII., which

BUTTERWORTH v. HOE.
Opinion of the Court.

confers upon Congress the power "to promote the progress of
science and useful arts, by securing for limited times to authors
and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings
and discoveries." The legislation based on this provision
regards the right of property in the inventor as the medium of
the public advantage derived from his invention; so that in
every grant of the limited monopoly two interests are involved,
that of the public, who are the grantors, and that of the
patentee. There are thus two parties to every application for a
patent, and more, when, as in case of interfering claims or
patents, other private interests compete for preference. The
questions of fact arising in this field find their answers in every
department of physical science, in every branch of mechanical
art; the questions of law, necessary to be applied in the settlement of this class of public and private rights, have founded a
special branch of technical jurisprudence. The investigation
of every claim presented involves the adjudication of disputed
quesions of fact, upon scientific or legal principles, and is,
therefore, essentially judicial in its character, and requires the
intelligent judgment of a trained body of skilled officials, expert
in the various branches of science and art, learned in the history
of invention, and proceeding by fixed rules to systematic conclusions.
Accordingly, it is provided in the statutes, Rev. Stat. § 4893,
that on the filing of any application for a patent, the
Commissioner shall cause an examination to be made of the
alleged new invention or discovery, and if on examination it
shall appear that the claimant is justly entitled to a patent
under the law, and that the same is sufficiently useful and important., the Commissioner,, not the Secretary, shall issue a
patent therefor, although it must be signed by the Secretary.
The claim is examined in the first instance by a primary examiner assigned to the class to which it belongs; if twice rejected
by him, the applicant is entitled, Rev. Stat. § 4909, to appeal
from his decision to that of the board of examiners-in-chief,
constituted a tribunal for that purpose; and from their decision,
if adverse, he may appeal to the Commissioner in person. Rev.
Stat. § 4910. If dissatisfied wiith his decision, the party, except

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinioh of the Court.

in cases of interference, in respect to which another provision
is made, hereafter to be considered, may appeal to the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia. Rev. Stat. § 4911. To that
.appeal the Commissioner is a formal party, the court acting
only on the evidence adduced before him, and confining its
revigfon to the points set forth in the reasons of appeal. A
certificate of its proceedings and decision is to be returned to
the Commissioner and entered of redord in the Patent Office,
and shall govern-so the statute says-the further proceedings
in the case, but without precluding, it continues, any person
interested from the right to contest the validity of such patent
in any court wherein the same may be called in question.
It is evident that the appeal thus given to the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia from the decision of the Commissioner, is not the exercise of ordinary jurisdiction at law or in
equity on the part of that court, but is one step in the statutory
proceeding under the patent laws whereby that tribunal is interposed in aid of the Patent Office, though not subject to it.
Its adjudication, though not binding upon any who choose by
litigation in bourts of general jurisdiction to question the validit'y of any patent thus awarded, is, nevertheless, conclusive upon
the Patent Office itself, for, as the statute declares, Rev. Stat.
§ 4914, it "shall govern the furtbxer proceedings in the case."
The Commissioner cannot question it. He is bound to record
and obejr it. His failure or refusal to execute it by appropriate
action would undoubtedly be corrected and supplied by suitable
judicial pr6cess. The decree of the court is the final adjudicaTioh upon the question of right; everything after that dependent
upon it is merely in execution of it; it is no longer matter of
discretion, but has become imperative and enforceable. 'It
binds the whole department, the Secretary as well as the Commissioner; for it has settled the question of title, so that a demand for the signatures necessary to authenticate the formal
instrument and evidence of grant may be enforced. It binds
the Secretary by acting directly upon the Commissioner, for.it
makes the action of the latter final by requiring it to conform
to the decree.
Congress has thus provided four tribunals for hearing appli-

BUTTERWORTH v. HOE.
Opinion of the Court.

cations for patents, with three successive appeals, in which the
Secretary of the Interior- is not included, giving jurisciction, in
appeals from the Commissioner, to a judicial body, independent
of the department, as though he were the highest authority on
the subject within it. And to say that, under the name of direction and superintendence, the Secretary may annul the decision of the Supreme Court of the District, sitting on appeal
from the Commissioner, by directing the latter to disregard it,
is to construe a statute so as to make one part repeal another,
when it is evident both were intended to co-exist without conflict.
The inference is that an appeal is allowed from the decision
of the Commissioner refusing a patent, not for the purpose of
withdrawing that decision from the review of the Secretary,
under his power to direct and superintend, but because, without
that appeal, it was intended that the decision of the Comnis
sioner should stand as the final judgment of the Patent Office,
and of the Executive Department, of which it is a part.
As already stated, the case of interferences is expressly excepted by § 4911 from the appeals allowed to the Supreme
Court of the District. Further provision, covering such and also
all other cases in which an application for a patent has been
refused, either by the Commissioner of Patents or by the Supreme Court of the District, is found in Rev. Stat. § 4915. It
is thereby provided that the applicant may have remedy by
bill in equity. This means a proceeding in a court of the
United States having original equity jurisdiction under the
patent laws, according to the ordinary course of equity practice
and procedure. It is not a technical appeal from the Patent
Office, like that authorized in § 4911, confined to the case as
made in the record of that office, but is prepared and heard
upon all competent evidence adduced and upon the whole
merits. Such has been the uniform and correct practice in the
Circuit Courts. I i2 ple v. Xtiner, 15 Fed. Rep. 117; Exparte
Sq uire, 3 Ban.-and A, 133; Butler v. Skaw, 21 Fed. Rep. 321.
It is provided that the court having cognizance thereof, on
notice to adverse parties and other due proceedings had, may
adjudge that such applicant is entitled, according to law, to re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

ceive a patent for his invention, as specified in his claim, or for
any part thereof, as the facts in the case may appear. And
such adjudication, if it be in favor of the right of the applicant,
shall authorize the Commissioner to issue such patent on the
applicant filing, in the Patent Office, a copy of such adjudication, and otherwise complying with the requirements of law.
And in all cases where there is no opposing party, a copy of
the bill shall be served on the Commissioner, and all the expenses of the proceeding shall be paid by the applicant, whether
the final decision is in his favor or not.
It thus appears that, as, in cases of other applications for a
patent refused by the Commissioner, the judgment, on a direct
appeal, of the Supreme Court of the District is substituted for,
and becomes the decision of, the Patent Office, so here, in cases
of interference, where the Commissioner has rejected an application for a patent, the decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States governs the action of the Commissioner, and requires him, in case the adjudication is in favor of the complainant, to issue the patent as decreed to him. It certainly cannot
be successfully claimed that, to a writ of mandamus issued out
of a court of competent jurisdiction, commanding the Commissioner of Patents to record and execute the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the District, reversing on an appeal his decision refusing a patent in any case other than an interference, or
the decree of a Circuit Court of the United States in any case
under Rev. Stat. § 4915, requiring a patent to be issued to the
claimant, it would be a sufficient answer that he had been directeid by the Secretary of the Interior not to do so. If not,
it must be, and is, because the decision of the Comnissioner, as
originally rendered, or that correction of it required by the judicial proceedings specified in the two sections of the statutes
referred to, is final and conclusive upon the Department.
This conclusion is strengthened by the provisions of Rev.
Stat. § 4918. It is there enacted that, in case a patent is
actually, though erroneously, issued, interfering with another,
any person interested in any one of them, or in the working of
the invention claimed under either of them, may have relief
against the interfering patentee, and all parties interested under

BUTTERWORTH v. HOE.
Opinion of the Court.

him, by suit in equity against the owners of the interfering
patent; and the court, on notice to adverse parties and other
due proceedings had according to the course of equity, may
adjudge and declare either of the patents void in whole or in
part, or inoperative or invalid, in any particular part of the
United States, according to the interest of the parties in the
patent or the invention patented; of course, without prejudice
to the rights of any person, except the parties to the suit, and
those deriving title under them subseqiient to the rendition of
the judgment.
Thus every case is fully provided for, both when the Commissioner wrongfully refuses to issue a patent, and when, in
cases of interference, he erroneously issues one; and that, by
means of judicial proceedings, through tribunals distinct from
*and -independent of the Patent Office, the integrity and force
of whose judgments would be annulled if not regarded as conelusive upon.the Commissioner, notwithstanding any power of
direction and superintendence on the part of the Secretary,
which is thereform necessarily excluded.
The law gives express appeals from the decision of the Commissioner, or, in cases where technical appeals are not given,
other modes of review by judicial' process. It gives no such
appeal from him to the Secretary. If it exists, it is admitted
it is only by an implication, which discovers an appeal in the
power of direction and superintendence. That power does not
necessarily, ecr 'vi termini, include a technical appeal; and the
principle applies that where a special proceeding is expressly
ordained for a particular purpose it is presumably exclusive.
I is clear that when the appeal is expressly authorized from
the Commissioner to the court, either directly or by means of
an original suit in equity, another appeal to the Secretary on
the same matter is excluded; and no reason can be assigned
for allowing an appeal from the Commissioner to the Secretary
in cases in which he is by law required to exercise his judgment
-on disputed questions of law and fact, and in which no appeal
is allowed to the courts, that would not equally extend it to
those in which such appeals are provided, for all are equally
embraced in the general authority of direction and superin-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tendence. That includes all or does not extend to any. The
true conclusion, therefore, is, that in matters of this description, in which the action of the Commissioner is quasi-judicial,
the fact that no appeal is expressly given to the Secretary is
conclusive that none is to be implied.
The conclusion is confirmed by a review of the history of
legislation on the point.
The first statute on the subject of patents, act of 1790, ch.
1, 1 Stat. 109, authorized their issue by the Secretary of State,
the Secretary for the Departmient of War, and the Attorney.
General, or any two of them, I if they shall deem the invention
or discovery sufficiently useful and important."
The act of 1793, ch. 11, 1 Stat. 318, which next followed,

authorized them to be issued by the Secretary of State, upon
the certificate of the Attorney-General that they are conformable to the act. The 9th section of the statute provided for
the case of interfering applications, which were to ba submitted
to the decision of arbitrators, chosen one by each of the parties
and the third appointed by the Secretary of State, the decision
or award of two of whom should be final as respects the granting of the patent.
This continued to be the law until the passage of the act of
1836, ch. 357, 5 Stat. 117, creating, in the Department of State,
the Patent Office, "the chief officer of which shall be called,"
it says, "the Commissioner of Patents," and "whose duty it
shall be, under the direction of the Secretary of State, to superintend, execute, and perform all such acts and things touching
and respecting the granting and issuing of patents for new and
useful discoveries, inventions, and improvements as are herein
provided for or shall hereafter be by law directed to be done
and performed," &c. By that act it was declared to be the
duty of the Commissioner to issue a patent if he "shall deem
it to be sufficiently useful and important," the very discretion
previously vested in the three heads of Departments by the
act of 1790; and, in case of his refusal, the applicant was (§ 7)
secured an appeal from his decision to a board of examiners, to
be composed of three disinterested persons, appointed for that
purpose by the Secretary of State, one of whom, at least, to be

BUTTERWORTH v. HOE.
Opinion of the Court.

selected, if practicable and convenient, for his knowledge and
skill in the particular art, manufacture, or branch of science to
which the alleged invention appertained. The decision of this
board being certified to the Commissioner, it was declared that
"he shall be governed thereby in the further proceedings to
be had on such application." A like proceeding, by way of
appeal, was provided in gases of interferences. By § 16 of the
act a remedy by bill in equity, as now given in §4915,
4918 Rev. Stat., was given as between interfering patents or
whenever an -application shall have been refused on an adverse
decision of a board of examiners. By § 11 of the act of 1839,
ch. 88, 5 Stat. 354, as modified by the act of 1852, ch. 107, 10
Stat. 75, it was provided that in all cases where an appeal was
thus allowed by law from the decision of the Commissioner of
Patents to a board of examiners, the party, instead thereof,
should have a right to appeal to the Chief Justice or to either
of the assisfant judges of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Columbia; and by § 10 the provisions of
§ 16 of the act of 1836 were extended to all cases where
patents are refused for any reason whatever, either by the
Commissioner or by the Chief Justice of the District of Columbia, upon appeals from the decision of the Commissioner, as
well as where the same shall have been refused on account of
or by reason of interference with a previously existing patent.
In this state of legislation, the Patent Office, by the act of
1849, ch. 108, 9 Stat. 395, was transferred to the Department
of the Interior, the Secretary of which, it was enacted, "shall
exercise and perform all the acts of supervision and appeal, in
regard to the office of Commissioner of Patents, now exercised
by the Secretary of State;'" which language, so far at least as
appeals, strictly so-called, are concerned, was without force, as
no appeals had ever been given from any decision of the Commissioner to the Secretary of State, unless that can be called
so, which, by § 7 of the act of 1836, 5 Stat. 120, was to be determined by a board of examiners, appointed, pro re iata, by
the Secretary of State, and for which, as we have seen, an appeal to the Chief Justice of the Circuit Court of the District of
Columbia had been substituted by the act of 1839, 5 Stat. 354.
VOL. CXII-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

The act of 1861, ch. 88, 12 Stat, 246, created the office of. examiners-in-chief, "for the purpose of securing greater uniformity
of action in the grant and refusal of letters patent," "to be composed of persons of competent legal knowledge and scientific
ability, whose duty it shall be, on the written petition of the
applicant for that purp~ose being filed, to revise and determine
upon.the validity of decisions made by examiners when adverse
to the grant of letters patent; and also to revise and determine,
in like manner, upon the validity of the decisions of examiners
in interference cases, and, when required by the Commissioner,
in applications for the extension of patents, and to perform such
other duties as ma be assigned to them by the Commissioner;
that from their decisions appeals may be taken to the Commissioner of Patents in person, upon payment of the fee hereinafter prescribed; that the said examiners-in-chief shall be
governed in their action by the rules to be prescribed by the
Commissioner of Patents."
The act of July 8, 1870, 16 Stat. 198, revised, consolidated
and amended the statutes then in force on the subject, and the
substance of its provisions, material to the present inquiry, have
been carried into the existing revision.
It will be observed that the judgment and discretion vested
by the original patent law of 1790, in a majority of the three
executive officers, the Secretary of State, the Secretary for the
Department of War, and the Attorney-General, who were
authorized to cause letters patent to issue, "if they shall deem
the invention or discovery sufficiently useful and important,"
was transferred by the act of 1836, § 7, to the Commissioner of
Patents, it being made his duty to issue a patent for the invention, "if he shh1l deem it sufficiently useful and important;"
and is continued in him by Rev. Stat. § 4893, the.language
being, that he shall cause an examination to be made of the
alleged new invention, "and if on such examination it shall appear that the claimant is justly entitled to a patent under the
law, and that the same is sufficiently useful and important, the
Commissioner shall issue a patent therefor."
It thus appears, not only that the discretion and judgment
of the Commissioner, as the head of the Patent Office, is sub-

BUTTERWORTH v. HOE.
Opinion of the Court,

stituted for that of the head of the department, but also, that
that discretion and judgment are not arbitrary, but are governed
by fixed rules of right, according to which the title of the
claimant appears from an investigation, for the conduct of
which ample and elaborate provision is made; and that his discretion and judgment, exercised upon the material thus provided, are subject to a review by judicial tribunals whose jurisdiction is defined by the same statute. In no event could the
direction of the Secretary of the Interior extend beyond the
terms in which it is vested, that is, to the duties to be performed under the law by the Commissioner. The supervision
of the Secretary cannot change those duties nor require them
to be performed by another, nor does it authorize him to substitute his discretion and judgment for that of the Commissioner, when, by law, the Commissioner is required to exercise
his own, and when that judgment, unless reversed, in the
special mode pointed out, by judicial process, is by law the
condition on which the right of the claimant is declared to depend. The conclusion cannot be resisted that, to whatever else
supervision and direction on the part of the head of the department may extend, in respect to matters purely administrative
and executive, they do not extend to a review of the action of
the Cbmmissioner of Patents in those cases in which, by law,
he is appointed to exercise his discretion judicially. It is not
consistent with the idea of judicial action that it should be
subject to the direction of a superior, in the sense in which that.
authority is conferred upon the head of an executive department in reference to his subordinates. Such a subjection takes
from it the quality of a judicial act. That it was intended that
the Commissioner of Patents, in issuing or withholding patents,
in reissues, interferences and extensions, should exercise quasijudicial functions, is apparent from the nature of the examinations and decisions he is required to make, and the modes provided by law, according to which, exclusively, they may be
reviewed.
Such has been the uniform construction placed by the department itself upon the laws defining the relation of its executive head to the Commissioner of Patents. No instance has

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

been cited in which the right of the Se~retary to reverse such
action of the Commissioner in granting or withholding a patent
has been claimed or exercised prior to that based upon the
opinion of the Attorney-General in. 1881. The jurisdiction
had been previously expressly disclaimed, in 1876, by Secretary Chandler, 9 Off. Gaz. 403, and by his immediate success6r, Mr. Schurz, in 1877, 1878, and 1879, 12 Off. Gaz. 475;
13 Off. Gaz. 771 ; 16 Off. Gaz. 220.
Some question is made as to the remedy. We think, however, that mandamus will lie, and that it was properly directed
to the Commissioner of Patents. He had fully exercised his
judgment and discretion when he decided that the relators
were entitled to a patent. The duty to prepare it, to lay it
before the Secretary for his signature, and to countersign it,
were all that remained, and they were all purely ministerial.
These duties he had failed and refused to perform merely out
of deference to the claim of the Secretary to reverse and set
aside the decision on the merits in favor of the relators This
we have held not to be a valid excuse. The case falls clearly
within the principles acted upon in Commissioner of Patents v.
TAiteley, 4 Wall. 522.
The remedy by bill in equity under § 4915 is not appropriate, because it applies only when the Commissioner decides
to reject an application for a patent, on the ground that the
applicant is not, on the merits, entitled to it. So that, if, in
such a case, a decree for a patent could be considered, ex proprio vigore, as equivalent to a patent, or could be enforced by
direct process in execution of it, nevertheless, the present is not
a case where such a bill would lie.
It is suggested that the writ was erroneously awarded by the
court below, on the ground that the decision of the Commissioner of Patents, in favor of issuing the patent to the relators,
was erroneous in law upon its face. But that question does not
arise upon this record. We have adjudged that it belongs exclusively to the Commissioner to decide the question for himself, whether a patent ought to issue. The statute points out
the remedy for a party aggrieved by his error, if he has decided
erroneously. It is not, by an appeal to the Secretary; nor

MORAN v. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of Facts.

can the question be presented in such a proceeding as the
present.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia is consequently
.AJirined.

MORAN, Ex'r of COOPER v. N\EW ORLEANS.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPRE.1IE COURT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted April 15, 184.-Decided November 3, 1884.

A mmicipal ordinance of the city of New Orleans, to establish the rate
of license for professions, callhgs and other business, which assesses and
directs to be collected from persons owning and running towboats to
and from the Gulf of MIexico and the city of New Orleans, is a regulation of commerce among the States, and is an infringement of the pro-

visions of Article I., section 8, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of the
United States.

This was an action to recover a license tax.
The city of New Orleans was authorized by a law of the
State (Acts Extra Session, 1870, p. 37, § 12), for the purposes
of the act, "to levy, impose and collect a license upon all persons pursuing any trade, profession or calliug, and to provide
for its collection; and said license shall not be construed to be
a tax on property."
The same act, § 21, provides that "all licenses imposed by
the city, not paid on the 31st day of July, shall be seizable,
after thirty days' publication in the official journal," in certain
courts of record in the city; "and upon the prayer of the city,
through its proper representatives, any court of competent
jurisdiction shall enjoin the said person or persons so liable to
pay a license tax, and who shall refuse or neglect to pay the
same, from continuing to carry on such business or profession
until he shall have paid the same and all costs and charges for
the recovery and enforcement of the claim therefor."
The council of the city of New Orleans passed anordinance
"to establish the rate of licenses for professions, calling and

