OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

ENGLAND v. GEBHIARDT.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

STATES

FOR

Submitted November 20, 188.-Decided December 8, 184.

No question of fact can be re-examined in this court on a writ of error, unless
the evidence is brought into the record by a bill of exceptions, or some
method known to the practice of courts of error for that purpose is adopted,
such as, for instance, an agreed statement of facts, or a special finding in
the nature of a special verdict.
Papers on file in the court below are not part of the record in the case when
brought here by writ of error, unless they are put into the record by some
adtion of the court below, as by bill of exceptions or some equivalent act.
The opinion of the court below, when transmitted with the record in accordance with Rule 8, § 2, is no part of the record.

This was a writ of error brought under the act of Mar h 3,
1875, ch. 137, § 5, 18 Stat. 472, to reverse an order of the
Circuit Court remanding a suit at law to the State court from
which it had been removed. The suit was begun by Jacob W.
Gebhardt, the, defendant in error, against Isaac W. England,
the plaintiff in error, in the Supreme Court of New Jersey, and
a summons was duly served on England. The pleading were
made up and issue joined in the State court. When that was
done there was nothing in the record to show the citizenshipof the parties; but, on the 6th of September, 1883, which was
in time, England filed a petition, accompanied by the necessary bond for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of New Jersey. The petition set forth that England was a citizen of New Jersey and
Gebhardt a citizen of New York, both at the time of the commencement of the suit, and at the time of the presentation of
the petition. The removal was asked for solely on the ground
of the citizenship of the parties. Upon the presentation of the
petition, the State court entered an order to the effect that it
would proceed no further, and a copy of the record was filed
in the Circuit Court on the 25th of September.
On the 14th of March, 1884, the following order was made
in the cause:

ENGLAND v. GEBHARDT.
Aigument for Plaintiff in Error.

"This cause coming on to be heard on a motion to remand
this cause, to the New Jersey Supreme Court,.in the presence
of Joseph A. Beecher, attorney for the plaintiff, and of A. Q.
Keasbey, attorney for the defendant, and the matter having
been argued by the respective attorneys, and the court having
taken time to consider the same, and the court being of
opinion that there is not in said cause so attempted to be
removed to this court a controversy between citizens of different States, according to the true intent and meaning of the
act of Congress in this behalf,-it is now,

.

.

.

on motion

of Joseph A. Beecher, ordered that the said motion be,
and the same is hereby, granted, and this cause is remanded to
the New Jersey Supreme Court to proceed therewith according to law, and it is further ordered that the said plaintiff do
recover of the said defendant, Isaac W. England, the costs of
this motion to be taxed."
The motion on which this order was made was not set
out in the record. There were, however, in the transcript
what purported to be certain affidavits sworn to in the months
of November and December, 1883, and filed February 25,
1884, which had indorsed thereon, "Affidavits, on motion to
remand," and there was also what purported to be the opinion
of the judge denying the motion, ±rom which it appeared that
"the motion to remand this cause was founded upon the
allegation that both the plaintiff and defendant were citizens
of the State of New Jersey when the summons was issued and
served and the petition for removal was filed. It was resisted
by the defendant upon the ground that at both of these
periods of time the plaintiff was residing in, and was a citizen
of New York." There was no bill of exceptions in the record,
and no authentic finding or statement of the facts on which
the order to remand was made, or of the'evidence submitted
by the parties. Neither did the order to remand itself refer in
any manner to the affidavits as the foundation of the action
which was taken.
JL. -. Q. Ke'o'sbey for plaintiff in error.-Before the act
of 1S75, 18 Stat. 470, an order remanding a cause to a State

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
-Opinion of the Court.

court was not reviewable. _swrance Co. v. Comstock, 16 Wall.
258; Railroad Co. v. Wiwall, 23 Wall. 507. But the act of
1875, section 5, provided that if in any suit removed "it shall
appear to the satisfaction of the Circuit Court, at any time after
such suit has been brought or removed thereto, that such suit
does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court,"
the court shall remand the suit and make such order as to costs
as shall be just; "but the order dismissing or remanding said
cause to the State court shall be reviewable in the Supreme
Court on writ of error or appeal as the case may be." The
ovly question before the Circuit Court on the motion to remand
was that of the citizenship of the plaintiff below, upon which
its jurisdiction depended. It decided this question, which was
a mixed one of law and fact, against the plaintiff in error, and
made an order, to remand. That order the statute expressly
makes reviewable in this court. The plaintiff in error has the
right, under the statute, to submit that question on which the
jurisdiction depended for deoision. here. In St. Paul &
Chicago Railway Co.v. _IcLean, 108 U. S. 212, the court held
that where the Circuit Court refused to exercise its discretion
to allow a party seeking to remove a cause to file the transcript after the first day of the term, this court would not interfere with such discretion, unless it was clearly improperly
exercised. But what is sought to be reviewed in this case is
not an exercise of the discretion of the Circuit Court, but its
judgment on the law and the facts, out of which the question
of its jurisdiction arose. This is expressly made a subject of
review in this court by the statute. The record shows that it
was erroneous ; it should be reversed.
.X&. JoAn .R.Emery for defendant in error.
MR. CHIF JusTmcE WArt delivered the opinion of the court.
He recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
It was decided in Babbitt v. Clark, 103 U. S. 606, 611, that
"Congress evidently intended that orders of this kind made insuits at law should be brought here by writ of error, aid that

ENGLAND v. GEBHIARDT.
Opinion of the Court.

where the suit was in equity an appeal should be taken." This
was a suit, at law, and it was, therefore properly brought here
by writ of error. But as a writ of error brings up for review
only such errors as are apparent on the face of the record, it
follows that nothing can be considered here on such a writ in
this class of cases, any more than in others, that is not presented in some appropriate form by the record. This record
shows an averment in the petition for removal that the parties
to the suit were citizens of different States, and a finding of the
court that they were not. This implies the finding of a fact
upon evidence submitted upon a hearing by the court, but
before the questions presented and decided at such a hearing
can be re-examined on a writ of error, they must be brought
into the record by a bill of exceptions, or an agreed statement
of facts, or a special finding in the nature of a special verdict,
or in some other way known to the practice of courts of error
for the accomplishment of that purpose. Storm v. United
States, 94 U. S. 76, 31 ; Suydam v. TFillimsonr, 20 How.427;
Baltirwre& Potorao Railroad Co. v. Trustees Sixth Presoyterian Church, 91 U. S. 127, 130. That this rule is applicable
to the class of cases to which that now under consideration
belongs was expressly decided in Kearney v. Denn, 15 Wall.
51, 56.
The record in the case contains nothing of the kind. The
affidavits, copies of which appear in the transcript, form no
part of the record proper. The mere fact that a paper is found
among the files in a cause does not of itself make it a part of
the record. If not a part of the pleadings or process in the
cause, it must be put into the record by some action of the
court. Sargeant v. State Bank o, .tndidna, 12 How. 371, 384;
Fisher v. Cockeieell, 5 Pet. 248, 254. This may be done by a
bill of exceptions, or something which is equivalent. Here,
however, that has not been done. It nowhere appears that the
affidavits were ever brought to the attention of the court,
much less that they constituted the evidence on which the
ruling was made. The case is, therefore, in this respect, different from Broson v. Schulten, 104 U. S. 410, 412, where
the order setting aside the judgment referred to and identified

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

in terms the affidavits found in the transcript as the foundation of the order which was made.
Neither is the opinion of the court a part of the record. Our
Rule 8, sec. 2, requires a copy of any opinion that is filed in a
cause to be annexed to and transmitted with the record, on a
writ of error or an appeal to this court, but that of itself does
not make it a part of the record below.
Tw order to remand is afflmed.

NhEW ORLEANS INSURANCE COMPANY v. ALBRO
COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FiOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
S abmitted November 17, 18S.-Decided December 8, M84.

It is within the discretion of a Circuit Court to take an appeal bond in which
each surety is severally bound for only a specified part of the obligation.
The omission in an appeal bond, to mention the term at which the judgment
was rendered, is not fatal; but may be cured.
A defence to a suit on a policy against perils of the sea and barratry; that the
sale of the cargo after loss of the vessel was made with a want of diligence
which the evidence in the case showed was equivalent to barratry, Held,
To be frivolous.

This was a motion to dismiss, with which a motion to affirm
was combined under the rule. The grounds for both branches
of the motion are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
21r. C07arles E. Schmidt for plaintiff in error.

.X,r. 0. B. Sane&u

for defendant in error.

WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The motion to dismiss is put on the ground that the security
bond is defective, 1, because tie sureties are not jointly or
severally bound for the full amount of the obligation, but each

Mr. CirEF JUsTIcE

