WNIISON v. ARRICK.

83*

Statement of Facts.

Under these circumstances we think it the true course toremit the case to the Circuit Court with the answers to the two
other questions, that the question whether the case can be prosecuted by information may be there raised in an appropriate
manner; and for such action, as to counsel and the court may
appear best.
The first and second questions are answered afrmatively,
and the case
Remanded to tiw Circuit Courtfo''fwrtherproeeding.

WILSO , Adm'r, v. ARRICK, Adm'x.
IN ERROR TO TE

SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT O

COLUBMBIA.

Argued October 16, 1884.-Decided October 27, 1884.

In the District of Columbia, a debt due the estate of an intestate, collected
by an agent of the administrator, is an administered asset, and cannot be
recovered of the agent by an administrator de blnis non of the estate,
appointed by the court after removal of the administrator.

Horatio Ames, whose administrator de anis non brought
-this suit, died in January, 1871. On some day not shown by
the record, but prior to April, 1873, his widow, Charlotte L.
Ames was appointed administratrix, with the will annexed,,of
his estate. There was claimed to be due the estate, from the
United States, a large sum of money for cannon furni shed, which
was satisfied by payments made in April, 1871, and in January,
1873. In May, 1878, Mrs. Atoes filed her account, in which
she charged herself with the sunt of $39,955 as received by her
from the'United States on acqount of the claim of the estate,
and took credit for three payments, amounting to $33,574.36,
made to Clifford Arrick, the intestate of the defendant, for
which vouchers were filed, signed by him. Exceptions were
filed to the account by Oliver Ames, a brother of Horatio Ames.
Before the exceptions were heard, the court, on January 9th,
1875, removed Mrs. Ames for having failed to comply with an
order of the court requiring her to give an additional bond, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Faes.

appointed the present plaintiff, Nathaniel Wilson, administrator
de bonis non in her place. On January22,1876, the exceptions
were heard, and the credit of $33,574.36, which the administratrix claimed on account of payments made to Arrick, was
reduced by the court to the sum of $2,955.56, and the commission she claimed was also reduced. The account, as filed, showed
a balance in her hands of $2,260.64; as corrected by the court,
this balance was increased to $34,876.75.
Disregarding this settlement of the account, this suit was
brought by Wilson, the administrator de bonis non, against
Arrick, to recover the sum of $39,955, the whole amount with
which the administratrix had charged herself in her account;
the allegation of the declaration being that he had collected
that sum for the estate of Horatio Ames, and refused to pay it
over. Arrick having died pending this suit, it was revived
against the administrator of his estate.
It appears from the bill of exceptions that warrants were
issued by the Secretary of the Navy to the administratrix for
the amounts due from the United States to the estate she represented; that on their delivery to her she was required to
indorse upon them her r -ceipt for the money, which she did;
and. haN ing the warrants in her possession, she indorsed and
delivered them to Arrick, who drew the.money.
The court, at the request of the defendant, charged the jury
that " the legal effect of the receipts, given in evidence and signed
by Charlotte L. Ames, as administratrix, was to invest her with
the control of the moneys mentioned in said receipts; and, if
the administratrix paited with said control by the indorseient
of said receipts, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover."
And the court, of its own motion added: "If you find,
from the testimony in this case, that Mrs. Ames, administratrL.
of" th-e estate of Horatio Ames, deceased, received this fund
from the government for the purpose of administration, and
that after receiving it she wasted it upon Arrick, or anybody
else, the plaintiff in this case would not be entitled to recover;
it would be the case of administration of assets, and it does
not survive to the administrator dle bonis non to prosecute."
Verdict for the defendant, and judgment on the verdict. To

WILSON v. ARRICK.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

reverse this judgment this writ of error was sued out, and this
charge of" the court was assigned for error.
.Xr.
A. S. Worthington for plaintiff in error.-I. WilsnA v.
lIralZer, 109 U. S. 258, is distinguishable from this case.
There it was held that a debt due to a deceased person, when
collected, becomes the property of the administrator. In this
case we seek to recover money so collected from a third person
to whom it was paid as agent. This can be done under the
common law, which was held in Wilson v. Walker to be in
force in the District. 1. If the action be brought by the first
administrator while his authority as administrator continues, he
may treat the fund in the hands of such third person either as
a debt due him individually, or as one due the estate which he
represents, and so sue, either in his own name or as administrator, as he may elect. 2 Williams on Executors (7th Ed.)
952; Clarke v. Houghamn, 2 B. & 0. 149 ; Sasscer v. WIalker's
E,'r, 5 G. & J. 102; C]o.pman v. Davis, 4 Gill, 166. 2. If
the first administrator die (or be removed) before the agent
who has collected the fund has paid it over, the administrator
de bonis 2on may also treat the fund as property belonging to,
the estate, aid sue for and recover it accordingly. Maryland
Stat. 1785, ch. 80, , 1; Stat. 1798, ch. 101, sub-chapter 14, ยง 4;
Gist, Adc'r, v. Cockey, 7 Iarr. & Johns. 134; Crane v. Allhig,
2 Green, N. J. (14 N. J. L.), 593; Cathemwood v. Calbaaud,1
B. & 0. 150; Blydenburg v. Lowry, 4 Oranch 0. 0. 368;
Cole v. If bdl,7 G. & J. 20. If it is claimed that Mrs. Ames
authorized Arrick to retain this money, the authority was obtained by fraud, and the money may be recovered. Catts v.
Phalen, 2 How. 376.-I. The other error assigned is the ruling of the court excluding the deposition of Oliver Ames as
to transactions between him and Arrick. This ruling was
based upon section 585 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, which provides, among other things, that in actions
against administrators neither party shall be allowed to testify
as to any transaction with or statement by the intestate, unless
called by the opposite party or required to testify by the court.
Here Oliver Ames was not a party. He was intefested in the

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion.of the Court.

result, no doubt; but the statute does not cover such a case.
Whether because the reason for excluding the testimony of one
who is interested in the result is the same as that for excluding
the parties themselves, the courts shall strain the words of the
law to cover all such cases, is a question that frequently arises,
but no reported decision of it has been found. It is submitted
that to make the words "either party" include all who may
have an'interest in the litigation, would be carrying construction to the point of legislation.
.A&.

eTry E. -)avis for defendant in error.

MR. JusToI WooDs delivered the opinion of the court. He
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
.Wethink the charge was right. In the case of United
.States v. TFal~k-, 109 U. S. 258, which, as appears by an
inspection of the record, was a suit brought by the United
States for the use of Nathaniel Wilson, as administrator de
b~onis non of the estate of Horatio Ames, upon the bond of
Charlotte L. Ames, as administratrix of the same estate, to recover the identical money sued for in this case, it was held that
an administrator de bonis non derives his title from the deceased, and not from the former administrator, and to him is
committed only the administration of goods, chattels, and
credits of the deceased which have not been administered: and
that, both at common law and under the act of Congress in
force in the District of Columbia, an administrator de bonis nan
has title only to the goods and personal property which remain
in specie and have not been administered. Upon this ground
the judgment of the court was based.
The plaintiff in error, conceding that since the decision in
United States v. TV~aker., ubi .upra, he could, not maintain his
action against the administratrLx or the sureties upon her bond,
to recover money the proceeds of administered assets, still insists that the action will lie against an agent of the administratrix, to whom the money has been paid. This contention
cannot be sustained. If the money sued for in this case is the
proceeds of a debt due the estate of Horatio Ames, which has

WILSON- v. ARRICK.
Opinion of the Court.

been administered by Mrs. Ames, the administratrix, the case,
of the Ultidted States v. Walker must be decisive of this. For
if the present plaintiff has no title to the money, his action
will no more lie against the agent of the administratrix than
against the administratrix herself.
We are of opinion that the facts stated in the bill of exceptions, as already recited, show that the claims of the estate of
Ames against the United States had been administered by
Mrs. Ames, the administratrix. The demand of the estate
against the United States had been settled and paid and the
liability of the United States discharged. This was an administration of these assets of the estate. The mere acceptance
even of the warrants was such an alteration of the property as
vested the title in the administratrix, and was tantamount to
their administration. Bacon's Abr., Title Executors and Administrators, B. 2, 2. The warrants and the money received
on them became the property of the administratrix, and she
was responsible therefor to the creditors, legatees, and distributees of the estate, and they only were entitled to sue therefor. United States v. Valker,, ub sumpra; Beal v. New _Aexioo,
16 Wall. 535; Erds v. Smith, 14 IHow. 416. If the cases cited
by counsel for appellant, Catterwood v. Ohabaud, 1 B. & 0.
150, and Blydenbrg v. Zowry, 4 Cranch 0. 0. 368, sustain his
contention, they are inconsistent with the law as heretofore
laid down by this court, and cannot avail him.
The fact that the adininistratrix has improperly paid out
money of the estate, the proceeds of assets administered by her,
or that they have been paid to her agent, does not invest the
administrator de bonis non with title, and authorize him to sue
therefor. If, as held in the case of the United States v. Walker,
ubi svpra, the administratrix was not herself liable for the proceeds of those assets to the administrator de bonis non, it
follows that the person who has received them as her agent
cannot be liable. We think there was no error in the charge.
It further appears by the bill of exceptions that "the plaintiff offered to prove, by the deposition of Oliver Ames, taken
in this case, transactions on the part of the intestate of the
defendant with, and statements by, him to the said Oliver

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opin on of the Court.

Ames, tending to show that the said charges," on which the
money sued for was paid to him by the administratrix, "were
unconscionable." This evidence was excluded by the court, and
its exclusion is now assigned for error. But it is clear that, if
the plaintiff had no title to the money received by Arrick, the
evidence offered was immaterial and was properly excluded.
We find no error in the record.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the .District of
Columbia is therefore ajfirmed.

UNITED STATES v. FLANDERS & Others.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERNl DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued October 20, I84.-Decided November 3, 1M.

A person appointed and commissioned as a collector of internal revenue, under
the act of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 482, is entitled to the compensation, provided for by ยง 84 of that act, of a percentage commission to be computed
on the moneys accounted for and paid over by him, from the time he enters on the duties of his office and his services are accepted, and not merely
from the time he takes the oath of office and files his official bond.
A collector of internal revenue appointed under that act is entitled, in a suit
against him on such bond, brought to recover public money collected by
him and not paid over, to have allowed, as a set-off, money paid by him for
publishing advertisements required to be made by ยง 19 of that act, if the
amount is found to be reasonable and proper, although the item was not
formally allowed or certified by the accounting officers in the Treasury De-

partment or otherwise.

Action against principal and sureties on an internal revenue
bond. The facts appear fully in the opinion of the court.
21r. Assistant Attorney-General )Jfauryfor plaintiff in error.
ibr. J Q. A. Fellows submitted for defendants in error on
hjs brief.

M-R. JUSTICE BLATCHFOIWD delivered the opinion of the court.

