HART v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO.

331

Statement of Facts.

HART v. PENSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE

CmuIr

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued November 13, 1884.-Decided November 24, 1884.

Where a contract of carriage, signed by the shipper, is fairly made with a railroad company, agreeing on a valuation of the property carried, with the
rate of freight based on the condition that the carrier assumes liability only
to the extent of the agreed valuation, even in case of loss or damage by the
negligence of the carrier, the contract will be upheld as a proper and lawful
mode of securing a due proportion between the amount for which the carrier may be responsible and the freight he receives, and of protecting himself against extravagant an4 fanciful valuations.
H. shipped five horses, and other property, by a railroad, in one car, under a
bill of lading, signed by him, which stated that the horses were to be transported "upon the following terms and conditions, which are admitted and
accepted by me as just and reasonable. First. To pay freight thereon" at
a rate specified, "on the condition that the carrier assumes a liability on
the stock to the extent of the following agreed valuation : If horses or
mules, not exceeding two hundred dollars each.

.

.

..

If a chartered

car, on the stock and contents in same, twelve hundred dollars for the car,
load. But no carrier shall be liable for the acts of the animals themselves,
. nor for loss or damage arising from condition of the animals themselves, which risks, being beyond the control of the company, are hereby
assumed by the owner and the carrier released therefrom." By the negligence of the railroad company or its servants, one of the horses was killed
and the others were injured, and the other property was lost. In a suit to
recover the damages, it appeared that the horses were race-horses, and the
plaintiff offered to show damages, based on their value, amounting to over
$25,000. The testimony was excluded and he had a verdict for $1,200. On
a writ of error, brought by him : Held, (1) The evidence was not admissible, and the valuation and limitation of liability in the bill of lading was
just and reasonable, and binding on the plaintiff ; (2) The terms of the
limitation covered a loss through negligence.

Lawrence Hart brought this suit in a State court in MAissouri,
against the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, to recover damages from it, as a common carrier, for the breach of a contract
to transport, from Jersey City to St. Louis, five horses and other
property. The petition alleges that, by the negligence of the
defendant, one of the horses was killed and the others were
injured, and the other property was destroyed, and claims dam-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

ages to the amount of $19,800. After an answer and a reply,
the plaintiff removed the suit into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, where it
was tried by a jury.
It appeared that the property was transported under a bill
of lading issued by the defendant to the -plaintiff, and signed by
him, and reading as follows:

"Bill of .ading.
Form No. 39, N. J.

Limited Liability Live-Stock Contract for United Railroads of
New Jersey Division. No. 206.
P. R. R.,
, 187-.
Lawrence Hart delivered into safe and suitable cars of the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company, numbered Ml' L. 224, for
transportation from Jersey City to St. Louis, Mo., live stock, of
the kind, as follows, one (1) car, five horses, shipper's count,
wfrich has been received by said company for themselves and
on behalf of connecting carriers, for transportation, upon the
following terms and conditions, which are admitted and accepted by me as just and reasonable:
First. To pay freight thereon to said company at the rate of
ninety-four (94) cents per one hundred pounds (company's
weight), and all back freight and charges paid by them, on the
condition that the carrier assumes a liability on the stock to the
extent of the following agreed valuation:
If horses or mules, not exceeding two hundred dollars each.
If cattle or cows, not exceeding seventy-five dollars each.
Tf fat hogs or fat calves, not exceeding fifteen dollars each.
If sheep, lambs, stock hogs, or stock calves, not exceeding
five dollars each.
If a chartered car, on the stock and contents in same, twelve
hundred dollars for the car-load.
But no carrier shall be liable for the acts of the animals
themselves, or to each other, such as biting, kicking, goring,
and smotheAng, nor for loss or damage arising from conJEBSEY CITY STATION,

HART v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO.

333

Statement of Facts.
dition of the animals themselves, which risks, being beyond the
control of the company, are hereby assumed by the owner, and
the carrier released therefrom
Second. Upon the arrival of the cars or boats containing said
stock at point of destination, the shipjer,- owner or consignee
shall forthwith pay said freights and charges, and receive said
stock therein, and unload the same therefrom; and if, from any
cause, he or they shall fail or refuse to pay, receive, or unload,
as aforesaid, then said company or other carrier, as the agent
of such shipper, owner or consignee, may thereupon have them
put and provided for in some suitable place, at the cost and risk
of such shipper, owner or consignee, and at any time or times
thereafter may sell the same, or any number of them, at public
or private sale, with or without notice, as said agent/nay deem
necessary or expedient, and apply the proceeds arising there
from, or so much thereof as may be needed, to the payment ol
such freight and charges and other necessary and proper costs
and expenses.
Third. When necessary for said stock to be transported over
the line or lines of any other carrier or carriers to the point of
destination, delivery of the said stock may be made to such
other carrier or carriers for transportation, upon such terms and
conditions as the carrier may be willing to accept; provided
that the terms and conditions of this bill of lading shall inure
to such carrier or carriers, unless they shall otherwise stipulate;
but in no event shall one carrier be liable for the negligence of
another.
Fourth. All live stock transported under this contract shall
be subject to a lien, and may be retained and sold for all
freight or charges due for transportation on other live stock
or property transported for the same owner, shipper or consignee.
Fifth. This company's liability is limited to the transportation of said animals, an I shall not begin until they shall be
loaded on board the boats or cars of the company. The owner
of said animals, or some person appointed by him, shall go with
and take all requisite care of the said animals during theirtransportation and delivery, and any omission to comply herewith

OCTOBER TERM!, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

shall be at the owner's risk. Witness my hand and seal, this
20th day of October, 1879.
] &WRECE HART,SAViper. [L. S.]"
Attest:
E. BuTRTE.
W. J. CAMMnRs,

Comany's Agent."
At the trial the plaintiff put in evidence the bill of lading,
and gave testimony to prove the alleged negligence and how
the loss and. injury occurred. He then offered to show that
the actual value of the horse killed was $15,000 ; that the other
horses were worth from $3,006 to $3,500 each; and that the r
were rendered comparatively worthless in consequence of their
injuries. The defendant objected to this testimony, on the
ground that it was not competent for the plaintiff to prove any
damage or loss in excess of that set out in the bill of lading.
The court sustained the objection and the plaintiff excepted.
It appeared, on the trial, that the horses were race-horses, and
that they and the other property were all in one car.
It was admitted by the -defendant that the damages sustained by the plaintiff were equal to the full amount expressed
in the bill of lading. The couft charged the jury as follows:
"It is competent for a shipper, by entering into a written contract, to stipulate the value of his property, and to limit the
amount of his recovery in case it is lost. This is the plain
agreement, that the recovery shall not exceed the sum of two
hundred dollars each for the horses, or twelve hundred dollars
for a car-load. It is admitted here, by counsel for the defendant, under this charge, that the plaintiff is entitled to recover a
verdict for twelve hundred dollars, and, also, under the charge
of the court, the plaintiff agrees that that is all. It is simply
your duty to find a verdict for that amount." The plaintiff
excepted to this charge. The jury found a verdict of $1,200
fQr the plaintiff (see 2 McCrary, 333); and after a judgment
accordingly the plaintiff brought this wrft of error.
The errors assigned are, that the court erred in refusing to
permit the plaintiff to show the actual damages he had sus-

HART v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO.

335

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tained, and in so charging the jury as to restrict their verdict
to $1,200.
.Mr. George X. Stewart for plaintiff in error.-The following facts are clear: (1) that the property shipped was of
much greater value than that named in the printed form
of contract; (2) that the carrier knew this before it received
the stock for shipment; (3) that .'the plaintiff was not asked
the value of the property when he signed the contract, and uo
valuation had been agreed upon or attempted by the parties at
that time; (4) that the injury was the direct result of gross
negligence of the carrier.-I. The defendant could not relieve
itself by a bill of lading so procured from the common law
liability for injuries resulting from its own negligence or the
negligence of its servants. Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall.
357; Express Co. v. Caldwell, 21 Wall. 264; Farnham v. Camden, Railway Co., 55 Penn. St. 53; American E p-ess Co. v.
Sand, 55 Penn. St. 140 ; R ailway Co. v. Henlein, 52 Ala. 606615 ; Ralw'fay Co. v. Abels, 60 Mississippi, 1017; Southern Express Co. v. 3foon,, 39 Mississippi, 832; foulton v. Railway
0)., 31 Minn. 85.-H. Being unable to relieve itself from such
liability in, toto, it could not fix the Jimit for its liability at less
than the total damage ustained by its negligence. We do not
deny that a shipper may be called upon to state value in order
that proper freight rates may be charged for transportation,
and that in such case he will be bound-that was the cace in
Graves v. Railway Co. 137 Mass. 33, and in H'aevey v. Railroad Co., 74 Missouri, 538. But in this case no representation
of value was required; no misleading statement of value was
made; and the shipper knew that the value of the property
was greatly in excess of the sum named in the bill of lading.
A shipper is not bound to disclose the value of property shipped
unless the carrier demands it. Jones v. *-oorhis, 10 Ohio, 145.
A common carrier may undoubtedly limit his liability by
age'eement. Farnean.v. Railway Co., 55 Penn. St. 53. 3'hvigyation Co. v. Bank, 6 How. 344; but such exemptions must be
clearly stated in the contract. Jkaginn,v. Dnin
.
.e, 56 N. Y.
168; and in the absence of such an agreement a carrier can-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

not escape liability for his negligence. Sager v. Pofrtsnouth
-RailwayCo., 31. Maine, 228; SouthernExpress Co. v. .foon, 39
Mississippi, 822; Cicago, &c.,Railway v. Abels, 60 Mississippi,
1017 ;, Railway Co. v. Simpson, 30 Kansas, 645; City of iYorwick, 4 Benedict, 271; Black v. Iran&sportation Co., 55 Wis.
319; .Levenig v. Union, &c., Co., 42 Missouri, 88; .Iewburger
v. Howard, 6 Philadelphia Rep. 174; Railway Co. v. Henlein,
52 Ala. 606. Such an agreement fixing the extent of the liability so extremely disproportionate to the value of the property is
unjust and will not be upheld. Exypess Co. v. Caldwell, 21
Wall. 264; Railway Co. v. Henlein, 52 Ala. 606-615; Railway
v. Simpson, 30 Kansas, 645. That the loss was occasioned by
the negligence of defendants' agents does not admit of serious
discussion.
.X21.

.

.17Pattisonfor defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE BLATCIIFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
He stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
It is contended for the plaintiff that the bill of lading does
not purport to limit the liability of- the defendant to the
amounts stated in it, in the event of loss through the negligence of the defendant. But we are of opinion that the contract is not susceptible of that construction. The defendant
receives the property for transportation on the terms and conditions expressed, which the plaintiff accepts "as just and reasonable." The first paragraph of the contrhct is that the plaintiff
is to pay the rate of freight expressed, "on the condition that
the carrier assumes a liability on the stock to the extent of the
following agreed valuation: If horses or mules, not exceedipg
two hundred dollars each. . . . If a chartered car, on the
stock and contents in same, twelve hundred dollars for the car
load." Then follow in the first paragraph, these words : " But
no carrier shall be liable for the acts of the animals themselves,
or to each other, such as biting, kicking, goring or smothering,
not for loss or damage arising from condition of the animals
themselves, which risks, being.beyond the control of the company, are hereby assumed by the owner, and the carrier

HART v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO.

337

Opinion of the Cobrt.

released therefrom." This statement of the fact that the risks
from the acts and condition of the horses are risks beyond the
control of the defendant, and are, therefore, assumed by the plaintiff, shows, if more were needed than the other language of the
contract, that the risks and liability assumed by the defendant
in the remainder of the same paragraph are those not beyond,
but within, the control of the defendant, and, therefore, apply
to loss through the negligence of the defendant.
It must be presumed from the terms of the bil of lading,
and without any evidence on the subject, and especially in the
absence of any evidence to the contrary, that, as the rate of
freight expressed is stated to be on the condition that the defendant assumes a liability to the extent of the agreed valuation named, the rate of freight is graduated by the valuation.
Especially is this so, as the bill of lading is what its heading
states it to be, "a limited liability live-stock contract," and is
confined to live-stock. Although the horses, being race-horses,
may, aside front the bill of lading, have been of g-eater real
value than that specified in it, whatever passed between the
parties before the bill of lading was sigmed was merged in the
valuation it fixed; and it is not asserted that the plaintiff
named any value, greater or less, otherwise than as he assented
to the value named in the bill of lading, by signing it. The
presumption is conclusive that, if the liability had been assumed
on a valuation as great as that now alleged, a higher rate of
freight would have been charged. The rate of freight is indissolubly bound up with the valuation. If the rate of freight
named was the only one offered by the defendant, it was because it was a rate measured by the valuation expressed. If
the valuation was fixed at that expressed, when the real value
was larger, it was because the rate of freight named was
measured by the low valuation. . The plaintiff cannot claim a
higher valuation, on the agreed rate of freight.
It is further contended by the plaintiff, that the defendant
was forbidden, by public policy, to fix a limit for its liability
for a loss by negligence, at an amount less than the actual loss
by such negligence. As a minor proposition, a distinction is
sought to be drawn between a case where a shipper, on revoL. caii-22

.338

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

quirement, states the value of the property, and a rate of freight
is fixed accordingly, and the present case. It is said, that,
while in the former case the shipper may be confined to the
value he so fixed, in the event of a loss by negligence, the same
rule does not apply to a case where the valuation inserted in
the contract is not a valuation previously named by the shipper. But we see no sound reason for this distinction. The
valuation named was the f'agreed valuation," the one on which
the minds of the parties met, however it came to be fixed, and
the rate of freight was based on that valuation, and was fixed
on condition that such was the valuation, and that the liability
should go to that extent and no further.
We are, therefore, brought back to the main question. It is
the law of this court, that a common carrier may, by special
contract, limit his common-law liability; but that he cannot
stipulate for exemption from the consequences of his own negligence or that of his servants. New Jersey Steam .Ntav. Co. v.
M3erchants' Bank, 6 How. 344; York Co. v. Central I. 1.
Co., 3 Wall. 107; Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357;
Express Co. v. Caldwell, 21 Wall. 264 ; Railroad Co. -v Pratt,
22 Wall. 123 ; Bank of Ifentucky v. Adams Express Co., 93
U. S. 174; Railway' Co.. v. Stevens, 95 U. S. 655.
In York Co. v. Cent 'al Railroad, 3 Wall. 107, a contract was upheld exempting a carrier from liability for loss by
fire, the fire not having occurred through any want of due care
on his part. The court said, that a common carrier may
"prescribe regulations to protect himself against imposition
and fraud, and fix a rate of charges proportionate to the magaitude of the risks he may have to encounter."
In Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, the following
propositions were laid down by this court: (1) A common
carrier cannot lawfully stipulate for exemption from responsibility when such exemption is not just and reasonable, in the
eye of the law; (2) It is not just and reasonable in the eye of
the law, for a common crrier to stipulate for exemption from
responsibility for the negligence of himself or his servants; (3)
These rules apply both to carriers of goods and to carriers of
passengers for hire, and with special force to the latter. The

HART v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO.

339

Opinion of the Court.

basis of the decision was, that the exemption was to have applied to it the test of its justness and reasonable character. It
was said, that the contracts of the carrier "must rest upon their
fairness and reasonableness ;" and that it was just and reasonable that carriers should not be responsible for losses happening by sheer accident, or chargeable for valuable articles liable
to be damaged, unless apprised of their character or value.
That case was one of a drover travelling on a stock train on. a
railroad, to look after his cattle, and having a free pass for
that purpose, who had signed an agreement taking all risk of
injury to his cattle and of personal injury to himself, and who
was injured by the negligence of the railroad company or its
servants.
In EepTres8 Co. v. Caldwdl, 21 Wall. 264, this court held,
that an agreement made by an express company, a common
carrier in the habit of carrying small packages, that it should
not be held liable for any loss or damage to a package delivered to it, unless claim should be made therefor within ninety
days from its delivery to the company, was an agreement
which the company could rightfully make. The court said:
"It is now the settled law, that the responsibility of acommon
carrier may be limited by an express agreement made with his
employer at the time of his accepting goods for transportation,
provided the limitation be such as the law can recognize as
reasonable and not inconsistent With sound public policy." It
was held that the stipulation as to the time of making a claim
was reasonable and intrinsically just, and could not be regarded
as a stipulation for exemption from responsibility for negligence, because it did not relieve the carrier from any obligation to exercise diligence, fidelity and care.
On the other hand, in Bank of Kenhicky v. Adams E pxress
Co., 93 U. S. 174, it was held that a stipulation by an express
company that it should not be liable for loss by fire could not be
reasonably construed as exempting it from liability for loss by
fire occurring through the negligence of a railroad company
which it had employed as a carrier.
To the views annonnced in these cases we adhere. But
'here is not in them any adjudication on the particular question

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

now before us. It may, however, be disposed of on principles
which are well established and which do not conflict with any
of the rulings of this court. As a general rule, and in the absence of fraud or imposition, a common carrier is answerable
for the loss of a package of goods though he is ignorant of its
contents, and though its contents are ever so valuable, if he
does not make a special acceptance. This is redsonable, because he can always guard himself by a special acceptance, or
by insisting on being informed of the nature and value of the
articles before receiving them. If the shipper is guilty of fraud
or imposition, by misrepresenting the nature or value of the
articles, he destroys his claim to indemnity, because he has attempted to deprive the carrier of the right to be compensated,
in proportion to the value of the articles and the consequent
risk assumed, and what he has done has tended to lessen the
vigilance the carrier would otherwise have bestowed. 2 Kent's
Comm. 603, and cases cited; Ref v. _RPl, 3 Watts & Sergeant, 21; Dunlap v. Iternational Steanboat Co., 98 Mass.
371 ; Railroad Co. v. Fraloj, 100 U. S. 24. This qualification
of the liability of the carrier is reasonable, and is as important
as the rule which it qualifies. There is no justice in allowing
the shipper to be paid a large value for an article which he
has induced the carrier to take at a low rate of freight on the
assertion and agreement that its value is a less sum than that
claimed after a loss. It is just to hold the shipper to his agreement, fairly made, as to value, even wh6re the loss or injury
has occurred through the negligence of the carrier. The effect
of the agreement is to cheapen the freight and secure the carriage, if there is no loss ; and the effect of disregarding the
agreement, after a loss, is to expose the carrier to a greater
risk than the parties intended he should assume. The agree.ment as to value, in this case, staids as if the carrier had asked
the value of the horses, and had been told by the plaintiff the
sum inserted in the contract.
The limitation as to value has no tendency to exempt from
liability for negligence. It does not induce want of care. It
exacts from the carrier the measure of care due to the value
agreed on. The carrier is bound to respond in that value for

HART v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO.

341

Opinion of the Court.
negligence. The compensation for carriage is based on that
value. The shipper is estopped from saying that -the value is
greater. The articles have no greater value, for the purposes of
the contract -of transportation, between the parties to that contract. The carrier must respond for negligence up to that value.
It is just and reasonable that such a contract, fairly entered into,
and where -there isno deceit practised on the shipper, 'should
be upheld. There is no violation of public policy. On the contrary, it would be u ijust and unreasonable, and would be
repugmant to the soundest principles of fair dealing and of the
freedom of contracting, and thus in conflict with public policy, if a shipper should be allowed to reap the benefit of
the contract if there is no loss, and to repudiate it in case of
loss.
This principle is not a new one. In Gibbon, v. Paynton, 4
Burrows, 2298, the sum of £100 was hidden in some hay in an
old mail-bag and sent by a coach and lost. The plaintiff knew
of a notice by the proprietor that he would not be answerable
for money unless he knew what it was, but did not apprise the
proprietor that there was money in the bag. The defence was
upheld, LordMansfield saying: "A common carrier, in respect
of the premium he is to receive runs the risque of the goods,
and must make good the loss, though it happen without any
fault in him, the reward making him answerable for their safe
delivery. His warranty and insurance is in respect of the
reward he is to receive, and the reward ought to be proportionable to the risque. If he makes a greater warranty and
insurance, he will take greater care, use more caution, and be
at the expense of more guards or other methods of security;
and, therefore, he ought, in reason and justice, to have a
greater reward." To the same effect is Basan v..Donovan, 4
B. & A. 21.
The subject-matter of a contract may be valued, or the
damages in case of a breach may be liquidated in advance. In
the present case, the plaintiff accepted the valuation as "just
and reasonable." The bill of lading did not contain a valuation
of -all animals at a fixed sum for each, but a graduated valuation~according to the nature of the animal. It does not appear

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

that an unreasonable price, would have been charged for a
higher valuation.
The decisions in this. country are at. variance. The rule
which we regard as the proper one in the case at bar is supported in Nfewburger v. Howard, 6 Philadelphia Rep. 174;
Sluire v. Arew York Central 2. 1?. Co., 98 Mass. 239; Hopkins v. TWestcott, 6 Blatchford, 64; Belger v. Dinsnore, 51 N.
Y. 166; Oppenheimer v. United States Express Co., 69 Ill.
62; Jfagnin v. Dinnsmore, 56 N. Y. 168, and 62 Id. 35, and
70 Id. 410 ; Earnest v. Eepress Co., I Woods, 573; LDkins v.
.Empire Transportation Co., 81* Penn. St. 315; South &
oVrth Ala. Ri. R2. Co. v. Henlein, 52 Ala. 606; Same v. Same,
56 Id. 368; Afuser v. Holland,17 Blatchford, 412; Harvey v.
Terre Haute 1?. P. Co., 74 Missouri, 538 ; and Grq'ves v. Lake
Shore Ry. Co., 137 Mass. 33. The contrary rule is sustained in
Southe,n E press Co. v. .roon, 39 Miss. 822; Th e City of
Norwich, 4 Ben. 271; United States Ewpress Co. v. Backman, 28 Ohio St. 144; Black v. Goodrich TransportationCo.,
55 Wis. 319; Chicago, St.& ouis & V. 0. 1R. 2. Co. v. Abel,
60 Miss. 1017; Kansas City, &c., Railroad Co. v. Simpson, 30
Kansas, 645; and Afoulton, v. St. Paul, &c., .1. 1. Co., 31
Minn. 85. We have given consideration to the views taken in
these. latter cases, but are unable to concur in their conclusions.
Applying to the case in hand the proper test to be applied to
every limitation of the common-law liability of a larrier-its
just and reasonable character-we have reached the result
indicated. In Great Britain, a statute directs this test to be
applied by the courts. The same rule is the proper one to be
applied in this country, in the absence of any statute.
As relating to the question of the exemption of a carrier from
liability beyond a declared value, reference may.be made to
section 4281 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (a
re-enactment of section 69 of the act of February 28, 1871,
ch. 100, 16 Stat. 458), which provides, that if any shipper of
certain enumerated articles, which are generally articles of large
value in small bulk, "shall lade the same, as freight or baggage, on any vessel, without at the time of such lading giving
to the master, clerk, agent, or owner of such vessel receiving

HART v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO.

343

Opinion of the Court,

the same, a written notice of the true character and value
thereof, and having the same entered on the bill of lading
therefor, the master and oivner of such vessel shall not be liable
as carriers thereof in any form or manner, nor shall any such
master or ownef be liable for any such goods beyond the value
and according to the character thereof so notified and entered."
The principle of this statut6 is in harmony with the decision at
which we have arrived. '
The plaintiff did fiot, n the course of the trial, or by any request to instruct the jury, or by any exception to the charge,
raise the point that he did not fully understand the terms of
the bill of lading, or that he was induced to sign it by any
fraud or under any misapprehension. On the contrary, he
offered and read in evidence the bill of lading, as evidence of
the contract on which he sued. "
The distinct ground of our deciion in the case at bar is, that
where a contract of the kind, signed by the shipper, is fairly
made, agreeing on the valuation of the property carried, with
the rate of freight based on the condition that the carrier assumes liability only to the extent of the agreed valuation, even
in case of loss or damage by the negligence of the carrier, the
contract will be upheld as a proper and lawful mode of securing a due, proportion between the amount for which the carrier
may be responsible and the freight he receives, and of protecting himself against extravagant and fanciful valuations. Squi e
v. New York Central .2..R. Co., 98 Mass. 239, 245, and cases
there cited.
There was-no error in excluding the evidence offered, or in
the charge to the jury, and the judgment of the Circuit
Court is
4flrned.

