FORTIER v. NEW ORLEANS BANK.
Syllabus.

as well as'of the inhabitants of the township, and authorizing
the issub of bonds to carry out their intentions with such time
of payment as the township committe( should determine, it was
the intention of the legislature to authBorize the execution and
issue of such bonds by the township committee.
There can be little doubt that this conclusion is in accordance
with the justice of the case. Money was raised on these bonds.
The plaintiff testified that he purchased them for value of
Crowley (the payee), and received them from Orowley, or
Henderson, or McKean, he could not recollect which. Evidently the township officers were concerned in the transaction.
At all events, the plaintiff purchased them and paid for them;
and they were duly entered in the township bond-book as bonds
of the township, and there can be little doubt that the township
reaped the benefit of the transaction. We have no doubt that
they are the valid obligations of the township, and that the
court below erred in ruling them out, and in directing a verdict
for the -defendant. They ought at least, to have been given to
the jury under the evidence in the case.
The judgment of the Cireuit Court i8 reversed, and the case
remanded with direetiont to awdrd a venirefacias de novo.

FORTIER v. NEW ORLEANS NATIONAL BANK.
NEW ORLEANS NATIONAL BANK v. FORTIER.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOE
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argaed November 17, 1084.-Decided December 1, 1884.

A bill was brought in the name of A. B. "in his capacity as president of the
N. 0. National Bank." Throughout the pleadings and all proceedings
below it was treated as the suit of the bank. After appeal it was assigned
for error that it was the suit of A. B., and, as A. B. and the defendant were
citizens of the same State, that this comt was without jurisdiction. Held,
That the defendant was boand by the construction put upon the bill below,
and that the objection to jurisdiction was too late.

1 440

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

In Louisiana the certificate of a judge under article 127 of the Code, that he
has examined a married woman apart from her husband touching a proposed borrowing of money by her, and that he is satisfied that the proposed
debt is not to be contracted for her husband's debt or for his separate advantage, or for the benefit of his "separate estate, or for the community, is
not conclusive, but basts on the wife the burden of proving that the money
borrowed did not inure to her benefit.A national bank may loan on security of a mortgage if not objected to by the
United States. National Bank v. .3atthews, 98 U. S. 621, and National
Bank v. Whitney, 103 U. S. 99, affirmed.

These were cross-appeals from a decree in equity in a cause
brought by "Albert Baldwin, in his capacity of president of
'the New Orleans National Bank, a corporation organized under
the National Banking Law, against Celestine Louise Fortier,"
-whowas a married woman, the wife of Polycarpe Fortier.
The purpose of the suit was to enforce the collection of a
iote "drawn," as the bill averred, "by the said Celestine Louise
Fortier to her own order, and by her indorsed with the authorization of her said husband, dated at New Orleans, March 16,
187, payable one year -fter date, bearing interest at eight per
cent., per annum fron maturity until paid, for ten thousand
dollars." Leon Godchaux was the payee of the note, who,
after its maturity and but a short time before the suit was
brought, transferred it to the New Orleans National Bank.
The note was secured by a mortgage, executed by Mrs. Fortier, on three squares and six lots of ground in the city of New
Orleans, which were her separate property. The bill by wit'ich
the suit was commenced prayed for an order of seizure and
sale of -the mortgaged premises, as provided by the Code of
TP'actice of Louisiana.
The mortgage was in the ordinary form of mortgages in
Louisiana, and was executed in the usual manner before a
notary public and competent witnesses. Appended to it was
the following certificate:
Parish of Orleans, City of NYew
Orleans:
"Fourth District Oourt for the Parish of Orleans.
"I, W. T. Houston, judge of the Fourth District Court for

"THE STATE OF LouisiA,

FORTIER v. NEW ORLEANS 'ANK.
Statement of Facts.

the Parish of Orleans, do hereby certify that on this 14th day
of Marcha, 1877, personally came and appeared before me, at
chambers, in the city of New Orleans, Mrs. Celestine Louise
Labranohe, of lawful age, the wife of Polycarpe Fortier, of this
city, and by virtue of article 127 of the Revised Civil Code of
Louisiana., I did then and there examine the said Mrs. P. Fortier, separate and apart from her said husband, and she stated
that she appeared before me for the purpose of obtaining the
certificate specified in said article to borrow the sum of ten
thousand dollars for her separate benefit and advantage by
mortgaging her separate property.
"I do further certify that then and there I examined her
touching the object for which the said sum of money was to
be borrowed, and that I have by her declaration, made on oath,
ascertained to my satisfaction that the sum of ten'thousand
dollars, which the'said Mrs. P. Fortier desires to borrow, is not
for her husband's debts nor for his separate advantage or the
beneft of his separate estate or for the community, but that
the same is solely for her separate advantage, and I therefore
give and sign this certificate in pursuance of said article, giving
my sanction and authority to said Mrs. P. Fortier, with the'
authorization of her husband to hypothecate*or mortgage her
separate property for the purpose of borrowing the said sum of
ten thousand dollars.
"Witness my hand and the seal of said court, this 14th day
of March, 1877.
"W. T. HousToN, Judge."
A writ of seizure and sale having issued as prayed for in the
bill, Mrs. Fortier filed her plea and a cross-bill. In the latter she
prayed for an injunction to restrain the seizure and sale of the
mortgaged premises. The grounds upon which she based her
defence to the original bill, and the relief prayed by her crossbill, were as follows: Admitting that at and before the date of
the note and mortgage she was separat'd in property from her
husband, Polycarpe Fortier, she averred that she was possessed
in her own right, as of a separate estate, of the property described in the mortgage: that the consideration of the note

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

sued on and secured by the mortgage was in part money lent
to her husband by Godchaux, the payee, and in part the payment and satisfaction of a debt due from her husband to Godchaux.
To show that Godchaux knew that the money was not borrowed for the separate benefit of Mrs. Fortier, the cross-bill
further averred that, before the execution of the mortgage by
her, it was agreed between her husband and Godchaux that the
loan should be secured by a mortgage on her husband's property; but the titles not proving satisfactory to Godchaux, it
was agreed between him and her husband that the mortgage
tor secure the loan should be placed on her separate property,
and that it should be transferred to the property of her husband when his titles were perfected. For the reasons stated it
was averred that the note and mortgage sued on were not
binding on her property.
There was an answer and demurrer to the cross-bill. The
answer denied that the note sued on was given for any other
purpose than that expressed in the certificate of the judge appended to the mortgage, and averred that the money raised on
the note was all paid to Mrs. Fortier except the discount,
amounting to $1,025, and the sum of $1,200, which was, by her
direction, handed to the notary to pay taxes due on the mortgaged premises.
The demurrer applied to all those averments of the cross-bill
"tending to show that the said note and mortgage granted by
her," Mrs. Fortier, "to secure the same were not executed for
her own use and benefit, in opposition to her sworn declarations
made on her examination by the judge of the Fourth District
Court and the certificate of the said judge to that effect, and to
all those averments in regard to the application made of the
money lent by said Godchaux on the faith of said mortgage."
It was shown by the evidence that the mortgage and note
were executed in the office of the notary ; that Mr. and Mrs.
Fortier and Godchaux, the payee of the note and the mortgagee, were present; that upon the execution and delivery of
the papers Godchaux retained from the $10,000, for which the
note was given, first, the discount of 10 per cent. on the face of

FORTIER v. NEW ORLEANS BANK.
Statement of Facts.

the note, amounting to $1,025, and, second, the amount of a
debt due from Mr. Fortier to him, being the sum of $1,800;
that he gave his check to the notary for $1,200 to be applied
to the discharge of taxes, &c., which were a lien on the mortgaged premises, and that he paid the residue of the $10,000 by
handing to Mrs. Fortier his check on the Union National Bank
for $5,975, payable to her order.
It was further shown that after Mrs. Fortier received the
check it. was deposited by Mr. Fortier, with her indorsement,
to his own credit in the Louisiana National Bank, and the deposit was drawn out from time to time thereafter on his checks.
The proceeds of the check for $1,200 handed to the notary
were applied, after deducting the fees of the notary, to the
payment of the taxes, interest and costs, which were a lien on
the mortgaged premises.
Robert Duqu6, a witness for the defendant, who appeared to
be the friend and legal adviser of Mr. Fortier, the husband,
testified that the latter, before the execution of the note and
mortgage in suit, proposed to Godchaux to boriow of him
$10,000 and to secure the same by a mortgage on the Fort
Leon plantation, of which he was the owner; that Godchaux
declined to moke the loan on the security offered on account of
some defect in the title, and that the loan was afterwards made
on the security of the mortgage in suit, with the agreement between Mr. Fortier and Godchaux that when the former perfected his title to the Fort Leon plantation the mortgage
should be transferred to it and the property of Mrs. Fortier
released therefrom.
The testimony of Duqu6 on these points was directly and
unequivocally contradicted by the deposition of Godchaux.
Godchaux also testified that before the loan was made to
Mrs. Fortier be went to see the property which was Afterwards
mortgaged; that he was shown over it by Mrs. Fortier, who
told him she wanted to borrow the money to improve the property and pay off the taxes due upon it.
This testimony of Godchaux, in reference to his inspection
of the property and the statements of Mrs. Fortier, was not
directly contradicted by her, although she was examined as a

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

witness in the case, nor was she questioned by her counsel in
reference thereto. She testified that she received no money
from Godchaux on the loan made by him, and that she-did not
receive any money on his check, which she admitted was
indorsed by her, and that none of the money loaned was used
for her separate benefit.
Upon final hearing the Circuit Court rendered a decree for
the complainant, in the original bill for $7,860 with interest
thereon from March- 16, 1878, and five per cent. attorney's
fees, having deducted from the amount appearing to be due
upon the note of Mrs. Fortier the sum $2,140, that sum being
the amount detained by Godchaux out of the proceeds of the
note of Mrs. Fortier for the debt due him by Mr. Fortier, with
the interest, &c. The court dismissed the.cross-bill with'costs.
Both parties appealed.

jib'. John A. . Iampbell (Jb'r. [Thomas J.
him) for the bank.
r'. B. . Jonas (ilb,. .enrY
Mrs. Fortier.

emmes was with

C. Xilkr was' with lim) for

Mn. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.

He

statel the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
It is first assigned for error b" Mrs. 'Fortier, the original
defendant, that as the bill was filed in the name of "Albert
Baldwin, in his capacity of president 6f the New Orleans
National Bank," against the defendadnt, who is alleged to be a
citizen of Louisiana, it does not appear that the parties were
citizens of different States, and, as no other ground of jurisdiction is averred, the Circuit Court does not appear to have had
jurisdiction of the case.
If Baldwin was, in fact, the- complainant, there was no
ground stated in the petition upon which the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court could rest, and the objection to the jurisdiction could be made at any time. But the counsel for the bank
insists that the bank, and not Baldwin, was the complainant.
The question is, therefore, how is the bill to be construed'?
It is clear, upon an inspection of the whole record, that the

FORTIER v. NEW ORLEANS BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

suit was treated by both parties and by the Circuit Court as
the suit of the New Orleans National Bank, and not of Albert
Baldwin. Every pleading in the case, including the answer
and cross-bill filed by the defendant, and every order and
decree made by the court, was entitled "The New Orleans
-X at'onal Baak v. C. . Fortier." In the appeal bond given
by the defendant the case was described in the same manner.
The cause of action set out in the petition was the cause of
action of the bank. The plea of the defendant to the original
bill treated the bank as the complainant by averring that "the
said bank is not the holder of the note for value, and that the
note was sued on in the name of the bank merely to give the
court jurisdiction." The answer to the cross-bill was styled the
answer of the New Orleans National Bank. It averred that
the bank was the holder of the note and mortgage sued on,
and that the bill was intended to be, and was, the bill of complaint of the bank and not of Baldwin. There was no replication to this answer. It is plain, therefore, that the defendant
carried on the litigation on the theory that the bank was the
complainant, and the cause was entertained and decided by
the Circuit Court on the same assumption.
We must adhere to the construction of the bill asserted by
the bank and acquiesced in by the defendant. The defendant
having herself so construed and treated the bill, will not be allowed on final hearing, in order to defeat the jurisdiction, to
assert, for the first time, that Baldwin, and not the bank, was
the complainant. It follows that the objection to the jurisdiction is not well taken.
We now come to the merits of the case. The contention of
the counsel for complainant is, that Mrs. Fortier, having by
the authorization of her husband and of the judge of the
Fourth District Court, evidenced by his certificate, bee- enpowered to borrow the money sued for to be used for her
separate benefit and advantage, and to mortgage her separate
property therefor, is concluded by the certificate of the judge,
and cannot be heard to deny that the money was borrowed for
her own use, or to assert that it was borrowed to pay her husband's debts, or for his separate advantage. On the other

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

hand, the counsel for the defendant insist that the money was
in fact borrowed by Mrs. Fortier fdr the use of and to pay the
debts of her husband, which Godchaux, the payee of the note,
well knew, and that the money borrowed was so applied by
the husband, and that she is not precluded by the certificate of
the judge from showing these facts, and that being shown,
they are a defence to the suit.
By article 2412 of the Civil Code of Louisiana of 1825, it
was provided as follows: '"The wife, whether separated in
property by contract, or by judgment, or not separated, cannot bind herself for her husband, nor conjointly with him,
for debts contracted by him before or during the marriage."
This, article is now article 2398 of the Civil Code of 1870.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana., construing it, has repeatedly
decided that a debt contracted by a married woman, whether
separated in property from her husband or not, could not be
enforced against her unless, the creditor established affirmatively that the debt inured to her separate benefit. Dranguet
v. Prudhomme, 3 La. 74; Pascalv. Sauvinet, 1 La. Ann. 428;
Erwin v. .XeCalop, 5. La. Ann. 173 ; Brandgee v. Kew, 7 Martin, N. S. 64; Beauregard v. Her uwbcand, 7 La.. Ann. 294;
X oussier v. Zunts, 14 La. Ann. 15. In the case last cited the
court say: "It is a principle that has come down to us from
the laws of Spain, that he who contracts with a married
woman must show affirmatively that the contract inured to
her advantage. The exception was when the wife renounced
the 61st Law of Toro, but this exception no longer exists."
This article, thus construed, still continues to be the law of
Louisiana, except as modified by the act of 1855, which now
constitutes articles 126, 127, and 128 of the Revised Code of
1870. They are as follows:
"Article 126.. A married woman over the age of twentyone years may, by and with the authorization of. her husband,
and with the sanction of the judge, borrow money or contract
debts for her separate benefit and -,dvantage, and to secure the
same, grant mortgages or other securities affecting her separate
estate, paraphernal or dotal.
"Article 127. In carrying out the power to borrow money

FORTIER v. NEW ORLEANS BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

or contract debts, the wife, in order to bind herself or her
paraphernal or dotal property, must, according to the amount
involved, be examined at chambers by the judge of the district or parish in which she resides, separate and apart from her
husband, touching the objects for which the money is to be
borrowed or debt contracted, and if he shall ascertain either
the one or the other are for her husband's debts or for his
separate benefit or advantage or for the benefit of his separate
estate or of the community, the said judge shall not give his
sanction authorizing the wife to perform the acts or incur the
liabilities set forth in article 126.
"Article 128. If the wife shall satisfy the judge that the
money about to be borrowed or debt contracted is solely. for
her separate advantage, or for the benefit of her paraphernal or
dotal property, then the judge .shall furnish her with a certificate setting forth his having made such examination of the
wifd as is required by article 127, which certificate, on presentation to a notary, shall be his authority for drawing an act of
mortgage or other act which may be required for the security
of the debt contracted, and shall be annexed to the act, which
act when executed as herein prescribed, shall furnish full proof
against her and her heirs, and be as binding in law and equity
in all the courts of this State and have the same effect as if
made by afen'mne sole."

The effect of these articles is simply to establish a new
rule of evidence in cases of loans of money made to married
women.
The cases in which they have been construed by the Supreme Court of Louisiana show clearly that the contention of
the complainant, that the certificate of the judge is conclusive
evidence of the fact that the money lent to a married woman
was for her sole benefit, and that she will not be allowed to
contradict it, cannot be sustained. The construction put upon
these articles is that the effect of the authorization and certificate of the judge was to relieve the creditor from the burden
of proving that the money lent by him to the wife inured to
her benefit, and to cast the burden on the wife to prove that it
did not. City Bank v. Bar'ow, 21 La. Ann. 396, 398.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

In the case of Bcrl v.'.Xaa,. 30 La. Ann. 940, it was held
that prior to the oct of 1855 the burden of proof to bind the
wife was on th~e creditor, but that under that act, when the
judge's authorization had been obtained, the burden of proof
rested on the wife to show that she was not bound.
In Claverie v. Gerodits,30 La. Ann. 291, the plaintiff holding
the note of Gerodias, a married woman, secured by mortgage
on her paraphernal property, executed by the authorization of
the judge, took out executory process thereon. Mrs. -Oerodias
filed an opposition thereto on the ground, among others, that
her note and mortgage were given for the purpose of securing
the debt of the husband to Olaverie. The latter admittedthat
the note was executed by Mrs. Gerodias to enable her husband
to obtain the means of carrying on his trade, "and was given
by him to the respondent," Claverie, "for that purpose to the
knowledge of his wife."
Upon these facts the court said: "The law forbids the 'wife
to become-security of her husband, or to bind herself or property for his debts. Her note for such a purpose in the hands
of the husband's creditor, who takes it knowingly, is uttcrly
void. The act of 185b (now articles 126, 127, and 128 C. C.)
has no application to such a case as is here presented." And
the court affirmed the judgment of the lower court, which decreed the nullity of the mortgage, the erasure of its inscription,
and directed the surrender of her note to Mrs. Gerodias, notwithstanding the fact that the note and mortgage had been executed by virtue of the authorization and certificate of the judge,
as provided in the act of 1855.
In Bath v. -Easc,vlbi &.urct,it was held that when a married woman has, even under the authorization of the judge, executed her note and mortgage on her separate property to secure
it, she may show by way of defence thereto that she gave the
note and mortgage for the debt of her husband, being induced
thereto by her husband and the creditor.
So in HYall v. Wy/e, 31 La. Ann. 734, it was held that the
authorization of a judge to a married.woman to borrow money
and execute a mortgage to secure its repayment does not preclue her from proving that with the knowledge of the creditor

FORTIER v. NEW ORLEANS BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

the mortgage was given to secure an antecedent debt of the
,husband due to him.
These cases show conclusively that the contention of counsel
for the complainant cannot be maintained.
On the other hand, it does not follow that because the money
borrowed by the wife with the authorization of the judge was
used to pay her husband's debts the note and mortgage given
therefor are void and cannot be enforced. To aake such a defence good it must be shown that the creditor knew when he
made the loan that the money was not to be used for the separate benefit or advantage of the wife; for the lender, having in
good faith paid the money to the wife or to another by her
dh'ection, is not bound, since the passage of the act of 1855, to
see that it is used for her benefit. It has been so held by the
Supreme Court of Louisiana.
In JfcClella v. Dane, 32 La. Ann. 1197, the defendantwas a
married woman who had executed by the authorization of the
judge the note and mortgage sued on. She alleged by way of
defence that the note and mortgage were obtained from her
through the influence of her husband, who received the money
for which the note and mortgage were given, and that therefore as to her they were without consideration. In support of
her defence Mrs. Dane offered evidence tending to show that
the money borrowed was subsequently received byher husband
and by him used for his own purposes. This evidence was admitted by the court below, and its admission was declared by
the Suprem. Court to be error. In giving judgment the court
said: "The check representing the borrowed money was delivered to the wife, who indorsed the same and received the
money which it called for, and to require more from tbie lender
in such cases would be to defeat the very object of the law.
. . . Our jurisprudence *is firmly settled on this question,
and it is unnecessary to quote authorities in support of the
proposition that, in the absence of any allegation of fraud
against the creditor himself, married women. are bound, as all
other persons, by their contracts and mortgages, executed
under proper authorization, as required by the law of 1855
(Civil Code, 127 and 128), and cannot be allowed by parol tesvol,. cx -29

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

timony to attempt to disprove the certificate of the judge and
their own authentic declarations in acts of mortgage. Nor will
the law authorize the inquiry into the subsequent disposition
made of the funds borrowed by married women when properly
authorized thereto. The law does not and cannot confer upon
the lender in such circumstances the power and authority towatch over and control the acts of the married woman who
has borrowed money from him, so as to prevent the improper
use of the same."
In the still later case of Dougherty v. Hibernia Inurance
Co., 35 La. Ann. 629, the Supreme Court of Louisiana said:
"Objections founded on the irregularity of the proceedings
before ,the judge and on the use made of the money and
the like, in the absence of fraud or complicity on the part of
the lender, have no force. The jurisprudence is now well settled that in such case the lender is not bound to look behind the
judge's certificate, and is not concerned as to the actual use of
the money after it is paid to the wife or according to her direction." See also Pilcherv. Pugh,28 La. Ann. 494 ; and Hrenry
v. Cuthreauc, 32 La. Ann. 1103.
The Ycsult of these authorities, succinctly stated, is, that since
the act of 1855, when a married woman, with the authorization
of her husband and the sanction and certificate of the judge,
borrows money, the creditor is not bound to show that the
money was used for her separate benefit and advantage, but
the debt may be enforced against her, and her separate property mortgaged to secure iz, unless she shows tnt with the
knowledge or connivance of the lender, the money was borrowed and used, not for her separate benefit, but for that of
her husband.
This conclusion supports the decree of the Circuit Court.
When Godchaux deducted and retained out of the money
loaned on the note and mortgage of Mrs. Fortier, Lti sum of
$1,800 to pay a debt due to himself from her husband, a&' paid
over to her, or by her direction, only the residue, he was acting, so far as the sum just mentioned is concerned, in complicity with the husband and in fraud of the law, and he cannot shield himself under the authorization of the judge. This

FORTIER v. NEW ORLEANS BANK
Opinion of the Court.

sum, with the interest thereon, was properly deducted from the
amount due on the note and mortgage. The $1,200 paid by
Godchaux to the notary, by the direction of Mrs. Fortier, to
clear off taxes, with the interest and costs which were a lien
upon that property mortgaged by her, was applied for her
separate benefit and advantage, and she cannot escape liability
for it. As to the $5,975, the residue of the loan, we are of
opinion that the defendant has not made it to appear affirmatively by preponderance of proof, as she was bound to do, that
the money was borrowed by her with the knowledge or connivance of Godchaux to pay off the debts, or for the use of her
husband. C-odchaux, therefore, having handed to the defendant a check, payable to her own order, for the residue of the
loan, his duty ceased. Under the act of 1855 he was not, as
we have seen, bound at his peril to take care that she applied
the money to her own separate benefit and advantage. So
far, therefore, as the defence to the enforcement of the money
paid by the check rested in the averment that the money borrowed of Godchaux was with his complicity borrowed for the
use of the husband, and not for the separate advantage of the
wife, it must fail.
Complaint is made in behalf of Mr. Fortier that the court
erred in enforcing by its decree a loan of money made by a
national bank on the securi'y of a mortgage; the contention
being that the loan on such a security was unauthorized by the
national banking act, and was therefore void. In the case of
lVatonal Bank v. .latthews, 98 U. S. 621, and .NationalBank
v. W-tney, 103 U. S. 99, this point is expressly decided against
the contention of the defendant, and in the latter case it was
also held that an objection to the taking by the bank of a mortgage lien as security for future advances could only be 'made
by the United States.
It follows from the views we have expressed that
The decree of the Circuit Court must be afflrmned.

