ADAMS COUNTY v. BURLINGTON & MO. RR. CO. 123
Opinion of the Court.

ment, are yet not members of any political community nor entitled to any of the rights, privileges, or immunities of citizens
of the United States.

ADAMS COUNTY v. BURLINGTON & MISSOURI
RAILROAD CO.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF IOWA.
Argaed October 02, 1884.-Decided November 3, 1884.

When a record shows that two questions are presented by the pleadings, one
Federal and one non-Federal, and that the judgment below rested upon a
decision of the non-Federal question, this court has no jurisdiction to review that judgment.

Suit in equity. The facts which make the case are stated in
the opinion of the court.
3JDf. George G. TF'ght and .Xr. F.
plaintiff, in error.

Davis argued for

3tr. T. 2f. Stuart, X'. SamueZ Shllabarger and 3Dr. J.
TVilson, for defendants in error, submitted on their briefs.

f

Mr. CHIEF JuSTioE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity brought by Adams County, Iowa, the
plaintiff in error, on the 23d of December, 1869, against the
Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company, in a State
court of Iowa, to quiet its title to sixty-six forty-acre lots of land.
The county asserts title under the swamp-land act of September
28, 1850, 9 Stat. 519, ch. 81, and the railroad company under
the Iowa land-grant act of May 15, 1856, 11 Stat. 9, ch. 28.
The company, in its answer, denied the title of the county, on
the ground that the lands were not swamp lands within the
meaning of the swamp-land act, and took issue on every material averment of fact in the bill to support a title under that
act. It then set up its own title under the land-grant act.
The petition averred a selection of the lands in dispute, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

swamp lands, by Walter Trippett, county surveyor of thie
county, under the authority of the Secretary of the Interior
and Commissioner of the General Land Office, as well as the'
Governor and Legislature of Iowa, and the report thereof, in
due form, to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, on
the 30th of September, 1854. On account of this selection
and report, it was claimed that the right of the State to a
patent for the lands selected was perfected by the act of March
3, 1851, ch. 117, 11 Stat. 2N1. The railroad company filed
an answer in the nature bf a cross-bill asking for affirmative
relief on the following facts:
'" Petitioner further states that on the 2.5th day of October,
1861, the claim or right of said plaintiff to said lands under
and by virtue of said pretended selection of said Trippett was
submitted to the Comnmissioner of the General Land Office for
final adjudication, and defendant appeared before said Commissioner and resisted the claims of said plaintiff to said lands,
and asserted its rights thereto as lands granted to the State of
Iowa for railroad purposes, and said Commissioner, after full
and careful examination of plaintiff's claim, rejected the same
as fraudulent and unfounded, and afterwards, on the 25th of
October, 1862, said Commissioner certified and conveyed said
lands to the State of Iowa for railroad purposes, under and in
pursuance of act of Congress of date of May 15th, 1856, . . .
and that on the day of
the said State certified
and conveyed the same to defendant in pursuance of the said
act of the Legislature of the said State of date of
1856....
Defendant here avers the fact to be that the said
plaintiff, well knowing that her claims to said lands were
fraudulent and unfounded, did, upon the said decision of the
said Commissioner against her, voluntarily abandon all claim,
right, or interest in said lands, and has, since the date of such
decision and up to the time of the commencement of this suit,
recognized and treated defendant as the owner of said lands;
that the said County of Adams, since the 25th day of October,
1861, has, by numerous and repeated acts, not only abandoned
all claims to said -lands, but has recognized, treated, and acknowledged the same to belong to defendant; that since the

ADAMS COUNTY v. BURLINGTON & MO. RR.CO. 125
Opinion of the Court;.
date of said decision said county has regularly each year (up to
and including the year 1871) listed and assessed said lands as
the land of the defendant, and has, since the date aforesaid,
regularly levied and collected taxes thereon from defendant.
"That the taxes thus levied and collected on said lands from
defendant since the 25th day of October, 1861, would, with the
legal interest thereon, amount to about ten thousand dollars.
Thpt prior to the 25th of October, 1861, the county had as
stned to contract portions of said land to certain individuals
under the pre-emption laws, and some of said pre-emptors had
taken possession of said land and made valuable improvements
thereon, but that plaintiff, after that date, ceased to take any
further notice or control of said land, or attempt in any manner to fulfil their said agreement with said pre-emptors; and
relying upon their title to said lands, and having every reason
to believe, from the acts and conduct of the plaintiff, that she
had acquiesced in the decision of said Commissioner, and abandoned all claim to said lands, defendant contracted with said
pre-emptors, and with the knowledge of the plaintiff, and without any objections being made by said plaintiff, defendant
sold and conveyed by warranty deed parcels of said land aforesaid, and defendant afterwards, and before the commencement
of this suit, sold and conveyed by warranty deed these portions
of said land to different persons, many of whom are now, and
for the last six years have been, in the actual possession of the
same, and have made valuable improvements thereon.
4'That on the 17th day of June, 1869, the said plaintiff, for
the purpose of inducing defendant to bring said lands into
market, made and entered into a written contract, whereby she
expressly recognized defendant's ownership of said lands, and
agreed, in consideration of defendant's bringing said lands into
market and selling the same to settlers, to remit a portion of
the taxes that she had levied thereon, and defendant then and
there paid to said county the sum of ten thousand dollars as
taxes on certain lands, including the land in controversy."
The prayer was "that plaintiff's bill may be dismissed, and
that defendant have and obtain a decree and judgment quieting
their title to said lands, and for costs of this case ;" and, if the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

title of the defendant was not sustained, that there might be a
judgment in favor of the defendant and against the county for
the taxes that have been paid on the land.
Under these pleadings testimony was taken, and the cause
heard in the court of original jurisdiction, where, on the
8th of May, 1878, a decree was rendered dismissing the plaintiff's bill, and "finding that the allegations of defendant's crossbill are true, and that the defendant is entitled to the relief
prayed for; that the lands in controversy

.

.

were duly

certified to the defendant as land inuring to it, as alleged in the
cross-bill; that the defendant b6came thereby the legal owner
of said lands, as alleged in the cross-bill; and that plaintiff has,
since 1862, recognized and treated said defendant as the owner
of said land, as alleged in said cross-bill; and plaintiffjs now,
by such acts and conduct, estopped from claiming the same or
denying the defendant's title thereto." Upon this finding the
decree established the title of the company and quieted it as
against the claim of the county.
From this decree an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court
of the State, where, on the 24th of October, 1879, it was affirmed. Thereupon the county presented to the Chief Justice
of the Supreme Court a petition for-the allowance of a writ of
error to this court. In this petition it was stated that "in the
pleadings, record, judgment and decree

.

.

. there was

drawn in question the rights" of the county under the swampland act, and the act of Mfarch 3, 1857, as well as the construction of the acts making the railroad grant, and that the decision
was against the right claimed by the county. In his certificate of
the allowance of the writ the Chief Justice stated that he found
from the record that the "facts stated in the petition are true."
The case was several times considered by the Supreme Court
before the final judgment of affirmance was rendered, and the
record contains four opinions, filed at different times in the
course of the proceeding, from which it appears, in the most
positive manner, that the decision of the cause in favor of the
company was placed entirely on the ground of estoppel, as set
up in the cross-bill. The original title of the county is nowhere,
in any of the opinions, disputed or denied.

ADA'MS COUNTY v. BURLINGTON & MO. RR. CO. 127
Opinion of the Court.
A motion is made to dismiss the writ to this court for want
of jurisdiction, on the ground that no federal question is involved.
To give us jurisdiction of a writ of error for the review of
the judgment of a State court, it must appear affirmatively,
not only that a federal question was raised and presented for
decision to the highest court of the State having jurisdiction,
but that it was decided, or that its decision was necessary to
the judgment that was rendered. The cases to this effect are
numerous. .Xulrdock v. .ernyms, 20 Wall. 590, 636; Noutetu
v. Gibson, 111 U. S. 200. This record shows that there were
two questions presented by the pleadings, to wit:
1. Whether the county acquired a title in equity to the lands
in dispute under the operation of the swamp-land act, supplemented as it was by the act of March 3, 1857; and,
2. Whether, if it did, it was estopped by its subsequent acts
from setting up that title as against the railroad company.
It may be conceded that the first of these questions was
federal in its character, but we axe clearly of opinion the second was not. A consideration of no act of Congress was
involved in its decision. There was nothing in the swamp-land
grant to prevent the county from surrendeiing the property to
the railroad company if that was thought best. Under this
defence the validity of the original title was not disputed. The
claim was that, in legal effect, that title had been ceded to the
railroad company, and that the county was in no condition to
demand it back. There was no dispute about the federal right
itself, but about the consequences of what had been done by
the parties in respect to it, after the title had passed in equity
from the United States to the county.
To our minds, for the purposes of the present question, the
case- is, in all respects, the same as it would be if the dispute
had been about the effect of an instrument intended as a conveyance of the property from the county to the company.
The controversy is not as to the right to convey, but as to the
effect of what has been done to make a conveyance. That
depends not on federal, but on State law.
It is contended, however, that inasmuch as the alleged com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

promise between the' county and the company included, among
other things, the claim of the county for taxes levied on the
lands, the right to tax the lands before a patent was issued for
them by the United Stats, must have been passed upon by the
court below in the decision which was rendered. Clearly this
is not necessarily so. The company claims nothing under the
taxation. Its rights against the county do not depend on the
validity of the taxes. The right to tax was one of the matters
in dispute between the county and the company, and that was
compromised with the rest. The effect of the compromise
upon the title of the county would be the same whether the
tax was properly levied or not.- It follows, therefore, that tho
decision of the court below on this branch of the case did not
involve the queition of the validity of the title set up by the
county under laws of the United-States.
This brings us to the inquiry whether it appears sufficiently
that the case was disposed of below on this defence. If it does,
the motion to dismiss 'must be granted, and, having no jurisdiction, we cannot pass on the correctness of that decision.
The record discloses that this separate and distinct defence
was made, and that it in no way depended on the validity or
invalidity of the original title of the county. In our opinion it
is'clearly to be inferred from the decree of the court of original
jdrisdiction, which was affirmed in the Supreme Court, that the
decision in faior of- the company was placed entirely on that
ground. So far as the original bill of the county is concerned,
the decree finds in favor of the company and dismisses the bill.
Then, as to the cross-bill, it finds the legal title to be in the
company, and that the county is estopped from claiming the
lands or denying the company's title thereto. This, of itself,
implies that there was, in fact, no decision against any right,
title, privilege or immunity claimed under the Constitution or
laws of the United States, and that the decree rested alone on
the defence of estoppel, which was broad enough to control
the rights of the parties without disposing of the federal question which it was attempted to raise. In other words, it was
adjudged by the State court that the title of the company must
prevail in.
this suit because the county was precluded' by its

NIX v. ALLEN.
Syllabus.

conduct from insisting to the contrary. But if we look to the
opinions, which, under the laws of Iowa, must be filed befdre
a judgment is rendered, and which, when such is the law, may
certainly be looked at to aid in construing doubtful expressions in a decree, it is shown unmistakably that the decision
was put on that ground alone. Gross v. U S. Morgage Co.,
108 U. S. 486-4.
In the -petition which was presented to the chief justice of
the court f3r the allowance of a writ of error, it was stated
"that in the pleadings, record, and judgment and decree there
were drawn in question" the rights of the county under the
swamp-land acts, as well as the construction of the land-grant
acts, and that the judgment was against these rights. The
chief justice, in his allowance of the writ, certified that be
found the statements in the petition to be true, but, if this
certificate is to have any effect at all upon this question, it
certainly cannot be taken as conclusive when the same chief
justice in an opinion on file in the case places the decision entirely on the ground of estoppel.
It follows that we have no jurisdicti6n, and
The motion to diniss is granted.

NIX v. ALLEN.
APpEAL

FRom THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARJKANSAS.
Submitted October 17, 1884.-Decided November 3, 1884.

The exercise of a pre-emption right under the act of September 4, 1841, 5
Stat. 453, by an entry of one-quarter of a quarter section of land, was an
abandonment of the right to enter under that act for the remaining threequarters of that quarter section.
A person who, on the 8th March, 1870, had a title by patent to a quarter of a
quarter section of land and lived in a house erected upon it, and cultivated
the remaining three-quarters of the quarter section without title, did not
reside upon the three-quarters so cultivated, within the meaning of ch. 289,
Acts of Arkansas, 1871, which gave persons then residing upon lands belonging to or claimed by the Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company, or fts
branches, the right to purchase them not to exceed 160 acres.
VOL. cXx-9

