EX PARTE VIRGINIA COMMISSIONERS.
Statement of Facts.

the only matter in issue, for the reasons given by the Supreme
Court of Iowa.
Other errors are assigned upon the ,ecora, relating, however,
to matters of pleading and practice under the laws of the State,
which, as they involve no federal question, are not proper for
our consideration.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa is accordingly
.A

'TX PARTE VIRGINIA COMISSIOINERS.
DRIGINAL.
Submitted October 27, 1S84.-Decided November 10, 18S4.

A writ of mandamus is- not ordinarily granted when the party alleging the

grievance has another adequate remedy, and that remedy has not been exhausted.

This was a motion for a rule to show cause why a writ of
mandamus should not issue. The motion shuwed that the petitioners in their public official capacities constituted the Commissioners of the Sinking Fund of the State of Virginia; that
in a cause pending before the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of. Virginia, a peremptory mandamus had been ordered, requiring them to give to the plaintiff in that cause or his attorney of record '"in exchange therefor dollar for dollar coupon bonds under the act of the General
Assembly of the State of Virginia, approved February 14, 1882,
commonly knoun as the Pliddleberger Debt Law ;" that the
court below certified that "it was shown by the evidence that
the matter in dispute in this cause exceeds, exclusive of costs, the
value of $500, and is less than the value of $5,000 ;" that the
amount of the coupons so directed to be exchanged was in fact
$22,716; that the said certificate was inconsistent with the
judgment and must bi regarded as surplusage; that the judges
of the court below by an order entered of record, refused to
allow the petitioners a writ of error to said judgment; and that
VOL. cxII-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabuk.

the-petitioners had a clear right to such a writ: wherefore the
petitioners prayed for a rule to the judges of the court below
to show cause :why mandamus should not issue commanding
them to allow a writ of error to said judgment, and to fix the
penalty of the bond in error, and to sign a citation on said writ
of error.
.2f'.F. S. Blair, Attorney-General of Virginia, for petitioners.
JMR.

CHEF

JusTicE WA E delivered the opinion of the court.

A writ of mandamus is not ordinarily granted when the
party aggrieved has another adequate remedy. No formal allowance by the Circuit Court of a writ of error from this court
to review a judgment of that court is required. Davidson v.
Lanisr, 4 Wall. 453. The writ issues in a proper case as a
matter of right, but, when sued out, security must be given,
and a citation to the adverse party signed. This security may
be taken and the citation signed by a judge of the Circuit
Court, or any justice of this court. No action of the Circuit
Court as a court is required. It does not appear from the petition that any application has been made to either of the judges
of the Circuit Court to approve security or to sign a citation.
If they should refuse on application hereafter, resort may be
had to either of the justices of this court. It will be time
enough to apply for a mandamus when all these remedies have
failed.
-MIotio'n denied.

EX PARTE CROUCH.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted October 14, 168.-Decided November 10, 1884.

The writ of habeas corpus from this court cannot be used to correct or prevent
possible future errors, in violation of the Constitution of the United States,
by a State court in a cause pending in that court in which the parties and
the subject matter are within its jurisdiction.

