OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. UNION TRUST COMPANY.
IN

ERROR TO

TIE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued October 20. 1884.-Decided November 17, 1884.

The provision in the New York Civil Code that "a person, duly authorized to
practise physic or surgery, shall not be allowed to disclose any information
which he acquired in attending a patient, in a professional capacity, and
which was necessary to enable him to act in that capacity," is obligatory
upon the courts of the United States, sitting within that State, in trials at
common law.
Section 721 of the Revised Statutes, declaring that "the laws of the several
States, except where the Conftitution, treaties, and statutes of the United
States otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as'rules of decision, in
trials at common law in the courts of the United States, in cases where they
apply," relates to the nature and principles of evidence, and also to competency of witnesses, except as the latter subject may be regulated by specific
provisions of the statutes of the United States.
To the question, in an application for insurance upon life, whether the applicant had ever had the disease of "affection of the liver," the answer was
No : H~eld, that the answer was a fair and true one, within the meaning of
the contract, if the insured had never had an affection of that organ which
amounted to disease, that is, of a character so well defined and marked as
to materially disturb or derange for a time its vital functions ; that the
question did not require him to state every instance of slight or accidental
disorders or ailments, affecting the liver, which left no trace of injury to
health, and were unattended by substantial injury, or inconvenience, or
prolonged suffering.
An exception to the modification by the court, in its general charge, of a particular proposition submitted by one of the parties, without stating specifically the modification to which objection is made, is too vague and indefinite.

An action to recover upon a policy of lifeinsurance. The
facts which make the several issues are stated in the opinion of
the court.
.r.

D. C. Brown for plaintiff in error.

.r.

Theeler H. Peckham for defendant in error.

MIR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

CONNECTICUT LIFE INS. CO. v. UNION TRUST CO. 251
Opinion of the Court.
This was an action upon a policy of life insurance in which
a verdict and a judgment were rendered for the plaintiff. The
policy was taken out on the 21st of February, 1878, by the
Union Trust Company of New York for the benefit of the children of William Orton who might survive him. The insured
died on the 22d of April of the same year. In the application,
signed by the trust company and by Orton, the following question (the seventh) was propounded: "Have you ever had any
of the following diseases? Answer (yes or no) opposite each."
Then follows a list of the diseases about which the applicant
was asked-apoplexy, paralysis, insanity, epilepsy, habitual
headache, fits, consumption, pneumonia, pleurisy, diphtheria,
bronchitis, spitting of blood, habitual cough, asthma, scarlet
fever, dyspepsia, colic, rupture, fistulia, piles, affection of liver,
affection of spleen, fever and agiue, disease of the heart, palpitation, aneurism, disease of the urinary organs, syphilis, rheumatism, gout, neuralgia, dropsy, scrofula, small-pox, yellow fever,
and cancer or any tumor. As to colic, fistula, and fever and
ague, the answer was Yes, and as to all the other diseases, iNo.
Being asked, in the same question, to state the number of attacks, character and duration, of all the diseases which he had
had, the applicant answered: "Had fistula in 1871, induced by
intermittent fever; radically cured."
The eighth question was: "Havo you had any other illness,
local disease, or personal injury; and if so, of what nature, how
long since, and what effect on general health?" The answer
was: "Had colic for one day, October, 1877; no recurrence;
general health good."
The fourteenth was: "How long since you were attended
by a physician; in what diseases? Give name and residence
of such physician." The answer was: "October, 1877; for
colic; Dr. Hasbrouck, of Dobbs' Ferry; sick one day."
The fifteenth was: "Is there any fact relating to your physical condition, personal or family history, or habits, which has
not been stated in the answers to the- foregoing questions, and
with which the company ought to be made acquainted ?" The
answer was: "No; nothing to my knowledge."
The sixteenth was: "Have you reviewed the answers to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

above questions, and are you sure they are correct ." The answer was, Yes.
The application concluded in these words:
"It is hereby declared and warranted that the above are fair
and true answers to the foregoing questions; . and it is acknowledged and agreed by the undersigned that this applica-.
tion shall form a part of the contract of insurance, and that if
there be, in any of the answers herein made, any untrue or
evasive statements, or any misrepresentations or concealment of
facts, then any policy granted upon this application shall be
null and void, and all payments made thereon shall be forfeited
to*the company."
Upon the back of the application were several indorsements,
among them the following:
"PRooFs OF DFATH REQUIRED.-Blanks for the several certificates required to be made in proof of death will be furnished
upon request."
The policy purports to have been issued in consideration of
the representations and declarations made in the application,
and of the payment of the annual premium at the time designated therein. It purports, also, to have been issued and accepted upon certain express conditions and agreements, among
which are: "That the answers, statements, representations,
and declarations contained in or indorsed upon the application
for this insurance-which.application is hereby referred to and
made part of this contract-are warranted by the assured to be
true in all respects, and that, if this policy has been obtained
by or through any fraud, misrepresentation, or concealment,
then this policy shall be absolutely null and void."
This action was brought to recover the amount insured-due
notice and satisfactory evidence of death having been given.
The company resisted recovery upon two grounds:
1. That the answers to the seventh, eighth, fourteenth, and
sixteenth questions were false and untrue, and known to be by
Orton, in this: that so far from his general health being good
at the time of the making and delivery of the application and
of the issuing of the policy, he had, for many years immediately
prior thereto, suffered with piles, affection of the liver, and hab-

CONNECTICUT LIFE INS CO. v. UNION TRUST CO. 253
Opinion of the Court.
itual headache, and within less than eighteen months prior to
the application had been seriously ill for weeks, during which
period several physicians attended him; that the illness in October, 1877, continued for some days; that he visited Europe
upon one or more occasions for the benefit of his health, and by
reason of disease was much enfeebled in body; that at the time
of issuing the policy defendant did not know or have reason to
believe that said statements, answers, and declarations, or any
of them, were untrue, but, believing them to be true, issued
the policy; and that by reason of these facts it was null and
void.
2. That in the application it was declared that the statements
therein were correct and true, and that there was not, to the
knowledge of the insured, any fact relating to his physical condition, personal or family history, or habits, not stated in answer
to the questions in the application, with which the officers of
the defendant ought to be made acquainted; yet, he had been
and was subject to and afflicted with the diseases therein specified; had a very serious illness and been attended by several
physicians; was ill in October, 1877, much longer than stated;
and had visited Europe for his health; which facts were within
his knowledge, and were material circumstances in relation to
the past and present state of his health, habits of life, and condition, rendering an insurance on his life more than usually
hazardous, and with which the officers of the company should
have been made acquainted: that these facts were concealed
from, and misrepresented to, the company by Orton, whereby
it was injuriously influenced, and induced to omit such examinations and precautions in reference to his condition and health
as would have prevented the issuing the policy upon the considerations and conditions therein set forth; and that, by reason
of such concealment and misrepresentation, the policy was and
is absolutely null and void.
1. In support of the defence, physicians, who had attended
the insured professionally, were examined as witnesses; and
the first assignment of error relates to the refusal of the court
to permit them to answer questions, the object of which was to
elicit information which would not have'been allowed to go to

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the jury, under section 834 of the Code of Civil Procedure of
New York, had the action been tried in one of the courts of
the State. That section provides that "a person, duly authorized to practise physic or surgery, shall not be allowed to disclose any information which he acquired inattending a patient,
in a professional capacity, and which was necessary to enable him to act in that capacity." It is not, and could not well be,
seriously questioned, that the evidence excluded by the Circuit
Court was inadmissible under the rule prescribed by that section. G'attan v. Mfetropolitan Life Ins. Go., 92 N. Y. 274;
Same v. Same, 80 N. Y. 281; Pierson v. People, 79 N. Y. 424;
Edington v. .Etna Life Ins. Co., 77 N. Y. 564; Edikgtom v. .utual Life Ins. Co., 67 N. Y. 185.
But it is suggested that truth and justice require the admission of evidence which this statutory rule, rigorously enforced,
would exclude, and that it can be admitted without disturbing
the relations of confidence properly existing between physician
and patient; that it would not afflict the living nor reflect
upon the dead, if the physician should testify that his patient
had died from a fever, or an affection of the liver; and that
the rule, as now understood and applied in the courts of New
York, shuts out, in actions upon life policies, the most satisfactory evidence of the existence of disease, and of the cause
of death. These considerations, not without weight, so far as
the policy of such legislation is concerned, are proper to be
addressed to the legislature of that State. But they cannot
control the interpretation of the statute, where its words are
so plain and unambiguous as to exclude the consideration of
extrinsic circumstances. Since it is for that State to determine
thbe rules of evidence to be observed in the courts of her own
creation, the only question is whether the Circuit Court of the
United States is required, by the statutes governing its proceedings, to enforce the foregoing provision of the New York
Code. This question must be answered in the affirmative.
By § 721 of the Revised Statutes, which is a reproduction of
§ 34 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, it is declared that "the
laws of the several States, except where the Constitution,
treaties, or statutes of the United States otherwise require or

CONNECTICUT LIFE INS. CO. t. UNION TRUST CO. 255
Opinion of the Court.

provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision, in trials at
common law, in the courts of the United States in cases
where they apply." This has been uniformly construed as
requiring the courts of the Union, in the trial of all civil cases
at common law, not within the exceptions named, to observe,
as rules of decision, the rules of evidence prescribed by the
laws of the States in which such courts are held. Potter v.
.Tational v. Bank, 102 U. S. 165; V'ance v. CO'anpbell, 1 Black,
427; TIT'iglt v. Bales, 2 Black, 535; Ateeil v. Holbrook, 12
Pet. 84; Sihs v. Jundley, 6 How. 1.
There is no ground for the suggestion that §§ 7121, 858,
and 914 of the Revised Statutes may be construed as relating
to the competency of witnesses rather than to the nature and
principles of evidence. While in some of the cases the question was whether a witness, competent under the laws of a
State, was not, for that reason, under § 34 of the act of
1789, a competent witness in the courts of the United States
sitting within the same State, in others the question had
reference to the intrinsic nature of the evidence introduced.
In ffT1rell v. Holrook the court held the courts of the United
States, sitting in Georgia, to be bound by a statute of that
State declaring, as a rule of evidence, that in all cases brought
by an indorser or assignor on any bill, bond, or note, the assignment or indorsement, without regard to its form, should
be sufficient evidence of the transfer thereof; the bond, bill, or
note to be admitted as evidence without the necessity of proving the handwriting of the assignor or indorser. And in Sinz
v. Lbindley a notary's certificate, held to be inadmissible as
evidence under the principles of general law, was admitted
upon the ground that, having been made competent by a statute of Mississippi, it was competent evidence in the Circuit
Court of the United States sitting in that State.
We perceive nothing, in the other sections of the Revised
Statutes to which attention is called, that modifies § 721,
except that, by § 858, the courts of the United States, whatever may be the local law, must be guided by the rule that
"no witness shall be excluded in any action on account of
color, or in any civil action because he is a party to or inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.,
Opinion of the Court.

ested in the issue tried;" and by the further rule, that, "in
actions by or against executors, administrators, or guardians, in
which judgment may be rendered for or against them, neither
party shall be allowed to testify against the other, as to any
transaction with, or statement by, the testator, intestate, or
ward, unless called to testify thereto by the opposite party, or
required to testify thereto by the court." "In all other re-spects," the section proceeds, "the laws of the State in which
the court is held -shall be the rules of decision as to the competency of witnesses in the courts of the United States in
trials at common law, and in equity and admiralty." As to
§ 914, it is sufficient to say that'it does not modify § 721 in
so far as the latter makes it the duty of the courts of the
United. States, in trials at common law, to enforce--except
where the laws of the United States otherwise provide-the
rules of evidence prescribed by the-laws of the State in which
they sit.
For these reasons, it is clear that the Circuit Court properly
refused to permit physicians called as witnesses to disclose information acquired by them while in professional attendance
upon the insured, and which was necessary to enable them to
act in that capacity.
2. The widow of the insured having been called as a witness'
on behalf of the company, it is contended that the court-erred
in no allowing her to answer this question: ."Did you not
understand from your husband the nature of the disease?"
That question, it is claimed, called for information derived
from the insured as to the nature of any disease under which
he may have been suffering at a particular time prior to his
application. If she was a competent witness, and if -the statements of the insured to her were admissible upon the issue
whether he had concealed any fact in his personal history or
condition with which the company ought to have been made
acquainted, or upon the issue whether he had made fair and
true answers to the questions put to him, still ihe question did
not call for his statements, but only as to what the witness
understood from him as to the nature of his disease. Her
statement of what she understood may not have been justified

COITNECTICUT LIFE INS. CO. v. UNION TRUST CO. 257
Opinion of the Court.

by what the insured actually. said, and may have been nothing
more than the unwarranted deduction of her own mind. The
objection to the question was properly sustained.
3. This brings us to the consideration of questions more
directly involving the merits of the case. The first of these
relates to the refusal of the court to instruct the jury that if
they "believe, on the evidence, that the insured ever had had
affection of. the liver before the presentation to the defendant
of the application for insurance, the policy is void, and the defendant is entitled to a verdict." This instruction was refused,
and the court, among other things, said to the jury, that disease implied a substantial attack of illness, or a malady, which
had some bearing on the general health of the insured, not a
slight illness, or temporary derangement of the functions of
some organ.
The defendant's request for instruction was properly denied,
for the reason that it might have been construed as requiring
a verdict for the company, upon its appearing simply that the
insured, prior to his application, had experienced a slight, temporary affection of the liver, which had no tendency to shorten
life, and all the symptoms of which had disappeared, leaving
no trace whatever of injury to health. The insured was directed to answer Yes or No, as to whether he had ever had
certain diseases, among which was included "affection of liver."
It is difficult to define precisely what was meant by "affection
of liver," as a disease, and the difficulty is not removed by the
evidence of the only physician who testified upon the subject.
While he would ordinarily understand affection of the liver to
mean some chronic disease of that organ, yet it is not, he says,
,strictly a medical term, but a general expression, which, by
itself, may include acute as well as chronic disease of the liver.
He describes it as "a big bag to put many diseases in," and
observes that it "would cover anything in the world the matter with the liver." It seems to the court, however, that the
company, by its question, sought to know whether the liver
had been so affected that its ordinary operations were seriously
disturbed or its vital power materially weakened. It was not
contemplated that the insured could recall, with such distinctvoL oxi-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

ness as to be able to answer categorically, every instance during his past life, or even during his manhood, of accidental
disorder or ailment affecting the liver, which lasted only for a
brief period, and was unattended by substantial injury, or inconvenience, or prolonged suffering. Unless he had an affection of the liver that amounted to disease, that is, of a character
so well-defined and marked as to materially derange for a time
the functions of that organ, the answer that he had never had
the disease called affection of the liver was a "fair and true"
one; for, such an answer involved neither fraud, misrepresentation, evasion, nor concealment, and withheld no information
as to his physical condition with which the company ought to
have been made acquainted. The charge, upon this point, was
in accordance with these views, and no error was committed
to the prejudice of the company.
4. There was evidence before the jury tending to show that
the insured visited Europe in_ 1874 under the advice of Dr.
Baner, a physician, and that he was ill in 1875 as well as in
the month of October, 1876. At the trial the defendant read
in evidence, without objection, the proofs of loss received by it
from the trust company. The proofs were made on forms
supplied by the insurance company. Among them was a
certificate from Dr. Baner, who attended the insured in his last
illness. That certificate was made up of questions to and
answers by the physician. One of the questions required him
to state the remote cause of death ; if from disease, to give the
predisposing cause, the first appearance of its symptoms, its
history, and the symptoms present during its progress. His
answer was: "The fatal attack was preceded by-severe and
protracted mental work, and by several attacks of malarial
fever, accompanied in each instance by considerable cerebral
engorgement." He 6lso stated, in the certificate, that the immediate cause of death was cerebral apoplexy; that he did not
think the insured had any other disease, acute or chronic, or
had ever had any injury or infirmity; and that there was
nothing in his habits, or mode of life, predisposing him to disease, except a tendency-to overwork.
Several instructions were submitted by the company touch-

CONNECTICUT LIFE INS. CO. v. UNION TRUST CO. 259
Opinion of the Court.
/P

ing this part of the case. In the form asked they were refused.
But such refusal would not constitute ground for reversing the
judgment, if the propositions they involved, so far as correct,
were embraced by the charge. The jury were instructed, upon
the whole case, that the insured warranted the truth, in all
respects, of each answer, statement, representation and declaration contained in the application, which was a part of the policy;
that any inquiry as to their materiality, or his good faith, was
removed, by the agreement of the parties, from the consideration of the 'court or jury; that the truth of each answer was an
express condition to the existence of liability on the part of the
company; and that if the answers, or any of them, were, in
fact, untrue, the contract was at an end, although the insured,
in good faith, believed them .to be true. Their attention-was
particularly called to the answer to the eighth question in the
application, in which the insured-responding to the inquiry,
whether he had had any other illness, local disease, or personal
injury-stated nothing more than that "he had colic for one
day, October, 1877; no recurrence; general health good."
The court said: "Illness is a word which may include, properly,
an attack of a less grave and serious character than disease; an
illness may be slight or severe; in either case it is an illness."
Referring also to a question which required the insured to state
any fact relating to his physical condition, personal or family
history, or habits, not already disclosed, and with which the
company ought to be made acquainted, the court-almost in
the language of defendant's eighth request-charged the jury,
that if they believed, on the evidence, "that the trip to Europe
advised by Dr. lBaner, the illness in 1875, or the illness in
1876, or the suffering of several attacks of malarial fever, accompanied by cerebral engorgement (if those attacks occurred,
or either of them), were facts relating to the physical condition
and personal history of the insured, of importance to the ascertainment of the condition of his health at the time of his application, the omission of those facts, or either of them, from the
application, avoids the policy, and the defendant is entitled to
recover." After reviewing all the evidence, the court concluded its charge by instructing the jury that if they found

-

OCTOBER TERA , 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

affirmatively that the insured "did not answer one of these
questions truly, then there is nothing more for you to do except to find for the defendant; if you find affirmatively that he
was guilty of concealment in his answer to the fifteenth question, then you will find for the defendant."'
We are of opinion that the charge-the most important
parts of which we have quoted-was not one of which the
company had any reason to complain; and the plaintiff, having
recovered a verdict, makes no objection to it.
In reference, to that portion of the charge referring to the
statements in the certificate of Dr. Baner, made part of the proofs
of loss, the point is made that the court erroneously instructed
the jury, that they could not, upon that certificate-made
without cross-examination and simply to inform the company
of the death of the insured-find as an affirmative fact that the
malarial attacks therein referred to as the remote cause of
death existed.
Without determining whether this certificate, so far as it assumes to state the causes of the death of the insured, was required by the contract as a condition of the plaintiff's right to
sue on the policy, or whether, under the circumstances of this
case, it was proof of all the facts stated in it, it is sufficient .to
say that the objection that the court, in effect, discredited that
certificate as _rimat facie evidence of the facts stated, cannot
be entertained. No. one of the requests for instructions submitted by defendant covers the precise point now made, nor
was any exception taken, at the time, to that part of the charge
which, it is claimed, refers to the certificate of the attending
physician. The only exception taken by the defendant to the
charge was "to the charge of the eighth proposition, as modified by the court and embraced in his general charge." The
eighth proposition submitted by the defendant was given, in
the words already quoted from the charge, with the modification, that the'jury were to determine, on the evidence, whether
the insured had had the before-mentioned attacks of malarial
fever, accompanied by cerebral engorgement. That modification was entirely proper, since it was the province of the jury
to determine the weight of the evidence. Cvshman v. U S.

GRENADA COUNTY SUPERVISORS v. ,BROGDEN. 261

Statement of Facts.
Life Insuranve Co., 0 N. Y. ', M7. If the subsequent part
of the charge, which is now referred to as discrediting Dr.
Baner's certificate as evidence of the facts stated in it, was regarded at the.trial as a modification of the defendant's eighth
proposition, or as objectionable in itself, the exception taken
should have been more specific. The attention of the court
should have been called to the particular point by something
more definite than the general exception taken. Beekwitk v.
Bean, 98 U. S. 284; .Lincoln v. Claffin, 7 Wall. 132 ; .XhcZVitt
v. Turner, 16 Wall. 362; Beaver v. Taylor, 93 U. S. 46.
No error was committed in overruling the instructions asked
by the defendant, since whatever they contained, that ought
to have been approved, was embodied in the charge to the

jury.
We find no error in the record of which this court can take
cognizance, and the judgment must be
Afirmed.

GRENADA COUNTY SUPERVISORS & Others v.
BROGDEN & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE

DISTRICT COURT

OF THE UNITEi)

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Submitted October 22, 183.-Decided. November 17, 184.

That construction of a statute should be adopted which, without doing violence
to the fair meaning of the words used, brings it into harmony with the Constitution.
A municipal subscription to the stock of a railroad company, or in aid of the
construction of a railroad, made without authority previously conferred,
may be confirmed and legalized by subsequent legislative enactment, when
legislation of that character is not prohibited by the Constitution, and when
that which was done would have been legal had it been done under legislative sanetion previously given.

Suit upon county bonds. Judgment for plaintiff. Writ of
error to reverse it. The facts are stated in the opinion.

