RANNEY v. BARLOW.
Statement of Facts.

RA17N-EY, Administrator, v. BARLOW & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued October 20, 21, 184.-Decided November 3, 1884.

A & B, residents in New York, were owners of one undivided half of a tract of
land in Cleveland. C, residing in Cleveland, was owner of the other undivided half. A & B gave C their power of attorney to sell their undivided
half in a proposed sale to a railroad company. C sold the whole tract for
$500,000, the consideration being $200,00 for the half belonging to A & B,
and $300,000 for the half belonging to C, and A & B received the said con'sideration coming to them. At the trial of an action brought by A & B
against C to recover one-half of the surplus above $200,000 received by
him, there was evidence tending to show that A & B before sale consented
that C might negotiate for the sale of the whole tract, and get what he could
for his own half. if he got $200,000 for their moiety. Held, That a charge
that the plaintiffs were entitled to recover unless the defendant informc 1
them at what price he could sell or had sold his share and they assented
to it, virtually withdrew this evidence from the jury, and instructed them
that nothing but the assent of A & B after the sale could be effectual; and
that it was error.

This was an action at law brought by the defendants in
error, Samuel L. M. Barlow and Charles Day, against the
plaintiff in error, Silas S. Stone. The petition was framed according to the rules prescribed by the code of Ohio, and was
"for money only."

The action, generally stated, was based on the following
averments of the petition, to wit, that the defendant, being the
joint owner in common with the plaintiffs of a tract of land,
and being their agent to take care of and negotiate sales of the
land, either in parcels or as a whole, sold the entire tract for
$0,0.
paid them $20O0(J of the purchase money, and
frudulently retained. .,3o0,000 for himself. The suit a--as
brought to recover $50,000 and interest, that sum being, as the
petition alleged, the share of the plaintiffs in that part of the
purchase money which the defendant had unlawfully and
fraudulently ,etained and appropriated.
The answer of the defendant, de-nied all the charges (,f fraud

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

made in the petition, and alleged that the defendant made the,
sale of the plaintiffs' half of the property by virtue of a power
of attorney authorizing him to sell it for $200,000, and stated
facts showing, as the defendant insisted, that he was guilty of
no fraud in procuring the power of attorney; and that the
plaintiffs, before executing it, were fully advised by the defendant of his purpose to sell his own half of. the land for a larger
price than that for which the power of attorney authorized the
sale of the plaintiffs' half, the defendant' undertaking to pay
all the expenses of bringing about a sale; and that, with full
knowledge of the facts, plaintiffs agreed to the arrangements
for selling the property and executed the power of attorney.
The pleadings and the bill of exceptions, which embodied
all the evidence, disclosed the following facts respecting the
parties below: The plaintiffs, on or before November 6, 1871,
were the owners of an undivided half in common of certain
lots, forming a part of what was known as the Central Tract,
situate in the city of Cleveland, in the State of Ohio, and the
defendant, Stone, was the owner of the other undivided half in
common. For several years previous to November 6, 1871,
and until the sale of the property as hereafter mentioned, the
defendant was the agent of the plaintiffs, having the charge
and management of their estate in said property, with power
to "work up"1 sales of the same, either in parcels or as a whole,
but without power to make contracts of sale or to convey. On
or about November 6, 1871, the defendant, who was a resident
of Cleveland, sent by mail to the plaintiffs, who resided in New
York, a power of attorney, dated November 7, to be executed
by them, which, when executed, would authorize him to sell,
by contract in writing, their undivided half of the real estate
above mentioned for the) consideration of $200,000, of which
$40,000 was to be paid cash down, and the residue in eight
annual payments of $20,000 each, with interest at six per cent.,
to be secured by mortgage on the property sold. The authority
conferred by the power was to expire in sixty days from the
date of the power. In a letter written by the defendant to the
plaintiffs, which enclosed the power of attorney, and which
bore date November 6, 1871, the defendant said, referring to

RA TNEY v. BARLOW.
Statement of Facts.

the power of attorney: "I think I can sell, on the terms therein
set forth, the land therein mentioned to a responsible party,
within sixty days from now, and perhaps by the ffrst of
December next, but, in order to do so, entire secrecy mu t be
observed in regard to the matter, and I must be allow- d to
bring about the sale in my own way." He added: "I advise
the sale and desire an immediate reply. If a sale is made, I
expect to make special terms for my interest." After the
receipt of this letter and the draft of the power of attorney, to
wit, about November 12, the plaintiffs sent their agent, Mr.
Tatlow Jackson, to Cleveland, with a letter to the defendant,
in which they said: "He," Mr. Jackson, "goes at our expresg
request to confer with you in reference to the subject matter of
yours of the sixth instant. You will oblige us by comiaunicating to him as freely as you would to us. The proposition
contained in your letter is of such magnitude as to enjoin the
most thorough canvass and consideration-hence Mr. Jackson's
mission."
There was evidence tending to show that Jackson passed
three days in Cleveland, much of the time in the company of
the defendant; that he was taken by the defendant over, and
shown a large part of, the city, and that the land in question.
was shown to him, and its situation explained by the defendant; and that during that time the defendant repeatedly told
Jackson that he would not sell hig half of the land for the price
he had named in the power of attorney as the price for the
plaintiff's half, but would demand a larger price, and gave, as
reasons why he was entitled to more for his half than the
plaintiffs were for theirs, that he could make a good title at
once, which the plaintiffs, on account of the encumbrances on
their half, could not do; that there would be large expenses
incurred in bringing about a sale, which he expected to pay,
and the paynent of which would compel him to sell other lands;
that he might be compelled, in order to make a sale, to put other
property out of the market by buying it; that he had made
expensive improvements on other property belonging to him in
Cuyahoga Valley, with a view to enhance the value of the
Central Tract, which embraced the property in question; and
VOL. cxf-14

210.

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Statement of Facts.

that the use to which their common property might, if sold, be
put would aepreciate the value of other adjacent real estate on
the Cuyahoga River owned by him.
On November 17, 1881, which, as the testimony tended to
show, was about the close of his visit to the defendant in Cleveland, Jackson wrote a letter to Day, one of the plaintiffs, which
was received by the. person addressed, in,which he said: "I
am confirmed in the opinion that you had best permit Mr.
Stone to do as he thinks best with the Central Tract. I put it
to him that you would prefer to go half-and-half with him in
any sale he might make, in place of putting any valuation on
your half interest. He responded that it was probable that, for
his half interest, he might have to make a trade, which would
bring in some other property belonging to him, making it impossible for such an arrangement, and that he intended to sell
with you-that is, that he is not a purchaser."
Evidence was also introduced tending to show that, on December 1, 1871, Charles Day, one of the plaintiffs, had an interview, in Cleveland, with the defendant, in reference to the
sale of the property, in which interview the defendant told him
that, if the sale was made, he was unwilling to divide the property equally; that if he sold his half he should sell it for more
than the price named in the power of attorney; that he did
not want the power of attorney, unless he was going to be left
perfectly free to manage his half. To which Day replied, that
the power of attorney would come very quick after he got
back to New York; that he was perfectly satisfied and ready
to sell the property; and that, in the same interview, the defendant told Day, as reasons why he proposed to demand more
for his half of the property than he demanded for the plaintiffs'
half, that lie intended to pay the expenses of the sale, that he
had to use land for that purpose, and might have to buy other
land.
On the same day, December 1st, Day wrote to his co-plaintiff, Barlow, as follows: "After a lengthy interview with Mr.
Stone, I am strongly inclined to believe that we had better
authorize him to sell that portion of the Central Tract, 485 lots,
in the manner proposed by him;" and then, after giving his

RANNEY v. BARLOW.
Statement of Facts.

reasons for the opinion, added, "I therefore think it wise to
conform to the terms of his proposition."
Testimony was giving to the jury tending to show that aftec
all this, and about December 7, the power of attorney sent by
the defendant to the plaintiffs, was executed by them and
mailed to the defendant, who received it about December 9.
After receiving from the plaintiffs the power of attor aey, the
defendant, on December 9, 1871, made a written proposition to
the Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati & Indianapolis Railroad
Company for the sale to it of the entire tract of land for 500,000, and added, "For one undivided half of the property I am
prepared to give a good and sufficient warranty deed, free of
encumbrance, and take a mortgage to secure the deferred payments; for the other half, which is slightly encumbered, I am
prepared to give a contract from S. L. Al. Barlow and Charles
Day, who hold the legal title and will speedily clear it of encumbrance, and have consented that the cash payment and the
contract itself shall be placed in the hands of the Society for
Savings until they can make a clear title."
In pursuance of this proposition a contract was executed
bearing date December 16, 1871, by which the plaintiffs, acting
by the defendant as their attorney in fact, sold and agreed to
convey their undivided half of the premises to the railroad
company for the consideration of $200,000, in the instalments
mentioned in the written proposition of December 9, which the
railroad company agreed to pay. The contract was executed
in less than sixty days after the date of the power of attorney, and was in all respects in conformity with the authority
conferred thereby. The defendant, by a contract also dated
December 16, 1871, agreed to convey by a deed of general
warranty his own undivided half of the same premises to the
railroad company for the consideration of $300,000, shL-ty thousand dollars whereof was to be paid on the delivery of the
deed, and the residue in eight annual instalments of $30,000
each. The latter contract contained a provision that unless
the plaintiffs within one year delivered the deed to the railroad
company for their undivided half of the land, the railroad com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

pany should elect whether it would carry out its contract with
the defendant or rescind the same.
There was some evidence tending to show that $200,000 was
a fair price for the plaintiffs' undivided half of the land, and
there was no evidence that when the power of attorney was
executed, the plaintiffs were ignorant of its value.
There was no evidence tending to show that before December 7, 1871, the day when the power of attorney was executed
by plaintiffs, the defendant had received any offer or intimation
from the railroad company that it would pay $500,000 for the
property, or that such an offer had been received by the defendant from any one else.
On January 29, 1872, the railroad company, on a cunt of the
precarious health of the defendant, decided to receive at once
his deed for Lis share of the property. " The deed was executed
and delivered on that day, and the railroad company paid the
defendant $60,000 of the consideration and gave its note,
secured by mortgage, for the residue. In July following the
plaintiffs, having cleared the encumbrances from their half of
the property, executed a deed therefor to the railroad company
and received $40,000, the cash payment of the consideration,
and notes secured by mortgage for the deferred payments.
Upon this state of the evidence the -court, besides other
charges, gave the jury the following:
"It is not enough that the defendant should have written
the plaintiffs, when he applied for the power of attorney, that
he expected to make special terms for himself, or that he should
have told the plaintiffs or their agent that he would not sell for
the price fixed by them, but expected to get more for his share.
He cannot claim and take to himself the benefit of the discrimination in his favor, unless the evidence satisfies you that
he had fully communicated all the facts to the plaintiffs before
he consummated the sale-all the facts known to him in relation to the chances of selling-so as to enable the plaintiffs
intelligently to decide whether they-would consent to the proposed discrimination .in defendant's favor or not. Such would
be the rights of the parties, even if the defendant did not
know or had not reason to-believe, before he accepted the said

RA=NITY v. BARLOW.
Statement of Facts.

power of attorney, and undertook to execute it, that the land
could be sold for more."
The bill of exceptions states that "the jury, having been
charged by the court, retired for deliberation, and, after being
out for the space of about one ddy, came into court and made
a written request to the court for further instructions as
follows:
"' Shall the jury understand the court to charge that the defendant is liable as agent, if it is found that he failed to reveal
any material facts tc plaintiffs relative to the value of the
property and terms of sale?'
"And thereupon the court gave to the jury the further
instruction or charge following, to wit:
"In answer to your inquiry, propounded by your foreman,
I have to repeat that an agent is required by law to deal fairly
with his principals in all things. One contention of the defendant in this case is, that the power of attorney under which
the defendant made the sale of the plaintiffs' interest in the
land, fixed the price and terms of the sale; and that plaintiffs
were concluded by the authority thus given. This would be
true, if the defendant obtained the power after fully and fairly
communicating to them all the knowledge or trustworthy information which he possessed, so that they could as well judge
of the value of the property, and the propriety of selling it on
the terms authorized by the power, as the defendant could
himself do. But if he failed to communicate the facts, and
thereby induced plaintiffs to execute to him the power under
which he acted in making, the sale and conveying the title to
the purchaser, plaintiffs could not be concluded or estopped by
reason of anything contained therein.
"The court further instruct you that if you shall find that
the power of attorney was obtained fairly, and after the communication by defendant to the plaintiffs of all the material
facts and information, as aforesaid, but that he ascertained
afterwards that he could sell the land, the whole of it, at
,$500,000, and that he refused to disclose the price or the name
of the purchaser, but undertook to bring about thesale in his
own way, he was in duty bound to accept the offer of $500,000

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

made by the purchasers, as well for his' principal as for himself; and if he, instead of making the sale for the benefit of
both, sold plaintiffs' part for $200,000 and his own for $300,000,
he is not authorized to retain the excess to himself, but that he
is, in equity and good conscience, bound to share the same with
his principals, unless he 'naae a full disclosure to them of all
the facts material for them to know, and they, with such full
knowledge and for reasons which they deemed .sufficient, consented to the unequal division of the purchase money which
the defendant made of it. If he did not so disclose the material .facts in regard to the value or the amount received, and
dbtain plaintiffs' consent that he might retain three-fifths of
the purchase money, as it is admitted he did, the plaintiffs are
entitled to recover the one-half'of such excess, so received and
retained by defendant, as per my former instructions."
The jury again retired, and, after further deliberation, returhed a verdict for the plaintiffs for $57,944.82, for which
sum, with costs to be taxed, the court rendered judgment
Against the defendant. To reverse that judgment this writ of
error is brought.
The defendant below, plaintiff in error in this court, assigned
for error the charges of the court above recited.
r. J. X. Adwms and R. P. Ranney for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Stvenson -Burke (tr. W'llam B. Sanders was with
him) for-defendants in error.
M . J ST E WooDs delivered the opinion of the court. He
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:

We think there was error in the charges complained of. To
test their correctness we must assume the truth of the facts
which the testimony submitted to the jury tended to prove.
It was the duty of the court to submit to the consideration of
the jury the testimony adduced by the defendant to sustain
the defences set up in his answer, and the charge should have
been based on the hypothesis that the defences which the testimony tended to prove were proven.

The evidence tended to

show that no fraud was practised by the defendant in procur-

RANNEY v. BARLOW.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the power of attorney; in fact, the charge proceeds an this
assumption; it tended to show that the plaintiffs, after full conference with the defendant, consented that he might secretly"
conduct the negotiations for the sale, that he might manage
the sale of the property in his own way, and that he should be
free to dispose of his own half as he pleased; that, in case he
sold their half for $200,000, he might sell his own half for any
price he could get. If the plaintiffs gave their consent in advance of any sale, it was immaterial to them what price the
defendant got for his share of the land, and he was under no
obligation to disclose the price to the plaintiffs and ask-their
consent to retain it. The effect of the charge of the court was
to withdraw from the jury all the evidence tending to show
the antecedent assent of the plaintiffs, fairly obtained, to the
sale made by the defendant, and to instruct the jury that
nothing but their subsequent assent could be effectual. This
was error. Adams v. Roberts, 2 How. 486; Reese v. Beek, 2-4
Ala. 651; Gru.be v. .-Yiehos, 36 Ill. 92; CUappel v. Allen, 38
Missouri, 213, 220.
The charge having assumed that there was no fraud in the
procuring of the power of attorncy, and the defendant having
submitted testinony tending to show that there was no fraud
in his doings after the power of attorney was procured, but
that whatever was subsequently done by him in making the sale
was done with the consent of the plaintiffs given in advance,
it was error to charge the jury that the plaintiffs were entitled
to recover, unless the defendant informed the plaintiffs at what
price he could sell or had sold his share, and they renewed
their consent that he might retain it.
For the error indicated
The judgment qf tte Cireuit Court must be 2'eversed, and the
cautse remanded, with dir'ectionsto grant a new trial; and
it 'is so ordered.

