OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

propriated by Congress, if that be necessary, by another
statute.
It is enough to say that, Congress having the power to pass
a law regulating immigration as a part of commerce of this
country with foreign nations, we see nothing in the statute by
which it has here exercised that power, forbidden by any other
part of the Constitution.
The judgment of the Circuit Court in all the cases is
Aflrmed.

MATTHEWS v. WARNER & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued December 9,10,1884.-Decided December22, 1M.

On the facts in this case it appears that the plaintiff had no real ownership,
actual control, or lawful right to the bonds in suit.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
.2'. WilZia n A. Abbott, for appellant.
Afr. E. R. HZoar and 21r. J. B. Warner, for appellees.
MR. JUsTicE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Circuit Court for the District of
Massachusetts, dismissing the bill of appellant, who was plaintiff below. See 6 Fed. Rep. 461.
The bill alleges that the plaintiff is the owner of one hundred and fifty bonds of $1,000 each of the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company, and fifty similar bonds of the
South Carolina Central Railroad Company, which have wrongfully come to the possession of defendants; that these bonds
are negotiable by delivery, and that defendants are about to
sell them at public auction, or otherwise, and she prays an injunction to prevent this sale and for other equitable relief.

MATTHEWS v. WARNER.*
Opinion of the Court

Defendants deny any ownership or interest of plaintiff in
the bonds and allege that they are holders of them for a valuable consideration, and set out the transaction by which they
obtained the bonds. This answer raises several questions which
we do not think necessary to consider, and a large volume of
testimony is found in the case which, for the same reason, we
do not propose to review here. *
The defendants are trustees under an assignment made by
Thomas Upham for the benefit of his creditors. There passed
to them by the assignment a bond for $250,000, made by Edward Matthews, the husband of plaintiff, and a mortgage on
valuable real estate in the city of New York to secure it.
These were made payable to Natban Matthews, brother of
Edward, and by him assigned to Upham as security for a loan
or loans made by Upham to Nathan Matthews.
It seems to be clear that this assignment was made by the
consent of Edward or by his directions. This was in May,
1875. Some time prior to March, 1877, Edward Matthews,
vho had become embarrassed, desired to take up this mortgage,
and entered into negotiations for that purpose with defendants,
who agreed to an exchange of the bond and mortgage for the
railroad bonds which are the subject of this suit. They accordingly sent Joseph B. Warner, their legal adviser, from
Boston, where they resided, with the bond and mortgage, and
the exchange was made by him as their agent, receiving the
bonds in question at Mr. Matthews' office in the city of New
York. This exchange took place on the 6th day of March,
1877. It appears that the 150 Memphis and Little Rock Company bonds were on that day, and had been for some time
previous, in pos -issionof Morton, Bliss & Co., bankers, as collateral security for the debt of Edward Matthews, who hat
placed them there.
From the very vague and unsatisfactory testimony of Mr.
Brander Matthews, son of plaintiff, and of her husband, EdwardyMatthews, it appears that, at some time prior to the
date of this transaction, but whether a month or a year he
cannot say, Brander Matthews went with his mother to the
office of the Safe Diposit Company and secured a box for his

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

mother's use, of which she took one key and he another. On
this 6th day of March, without consulting his mother, he went
to this box and took out 200 bonds of the South Carolina Central Railroad Company, and going from thence to the office of
Morton, Bliss & Co. he exchanged 150 of these bonds for the
Memphis and Little Rock Company's bonds, and brought them
with the remaining 50 bonds of the South Carolina Company
to his father's office, and in his presence delivered them to Mr.
Warner.
An instrument in writing was there drawn up showing the
terms of the exchange and the purpose for which the bonds
wbre pledged. This instrument is signed Caleb H. Warner
and Charles F. Smith, by Joseph B. Warner, their attorney;
Nathan Matthews, by W. H. Williams, his attorney, and by
Edward Matthews.
Mr. Brander Matthews testifies that he had no authority
from his mother for the use he made of the bonds, nor does he
believe she knew anything about it. Mr. Edward Matthews
supports him in this. It is, however, apparent, that in regard
to these bonds, and to others placed in the box and removeal
from it from time to time, that the mother was rarely, if ever,
consulted. Mr. Edward Matthews testifies that these bonds had
at one time been his bonds, and he says they became his wife's
proper'ty by virtue of assignments which he had made of them
to Watson Matthews, his brother, in trust for Mrs. Matthews.
Two papers are produced which purport to assign to Watson
Matthews the equity of redemption and right and interest of
Edward Matthews to a large list of bonds and other securities
held by parties to whom Edward Matthews had pledged them
for his own debts. One of them is dated April 22, 1876, and
the other May 13, 1876. There is no satisfactory evidence of
the delivery of either of these papers to Mrs. Matthews or to
Watson Matthews. Edward Matthews says they were placed
with other papers in Mrs. Matthews' box in the safe deposit
vault. There is no evidence that Mrs. Matthews ever had either
of these papers, or any of the bonds described in them, in her
manual possession. No evidence that she ever went to the
box or opened'it herself to put anything in it or take anything

MATTHEWS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

out. The instruments speak of the assignments as security for
a debt owing by Edward Matthews to his wife. No evidence
is given of the origin of this debt; nor that Mrs. Matthews ever
had any separate estate of her own, or anything to loan her
.husband. They must have been married a long time, as Brander Matthews, the son, was over twenty-three years old -t the
time of these transactions.
It also appears that Watson Matthews was the brother of
Edward Matthews, and both he -and Brander. Matthews occupied as offices the same rooms in which Edward Matthews did
business.
It is significant also that the bill in this case is sworn to by
one of the solicitors on his belief, and her name is signed by
them andnot by herself.
The only act which she is ever said to have done or performed
in person, asserting a claim to these bonds, is a notice, to which
her name is appended, to the defendants, about a month after
the exchange of the bond and mortgage for the railroad bonds,
in which she says they are her bonds, and forbids them to sell
them. A witness, the clerk of Matthews, says the signature, he
thinks, was written by Mr. Matthews. And it is admitted that
the letter was dictated by him and written in his office.
The plaintiff, who, if she had any just claim to these bonds,
could best hae explained how that claim originated, who
could have told what money or property she loaned her husband, or how he became her debtor, is not sworn as a witness
in the case.
It looks very much to us'as if the box at the safe deposit
vault, with a key in the possession of the son, who occupied
the same office with the father, and in the light of other evidence in the case, was a contrivance by which the hn.sband could
use the bonds as his own when he desired, and assert them to
be the property of his wife when that was more desirable.
We are of opinion that plaintiff never had any real ownership
or actual control or any lawful right to the bonds in suit.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill is aJfi,2rned
for this reason,without examiningother grounds of defence
to the suit.

