GRAME v. MUTUAL ASSURANCE COMPANY.

273

Opinion of the Court.
which the county can escape liability upon them to the plaintiffs, who are boncflde holders for value. Indeed, there is nothing of substance in the defence made by the county beyond
the question of legislative authority for the subscriptions, in
payment of which the bonds in suit were issued, and pa, sed to
the plaintiffs for iron used on one of the proposed roads.
Other questions of minor importanc6 are discussed in the very
able brief of counsel for the county. But they do not, in our
opinion, affect the right of plaintiffs to judgment, and need not
be noticed.
We perceive no error in the record, and the judgment is

GRAME, Executor, ,. IMUTUAL ASSURANCE COMPANY
OF VIRGINIA.
GODDIK, Executor, v. SAMEE.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREMNEE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.
Argued November 18, 1894.-necided November 19, 1884.

Whether the destruction of a building by fire, communicated from buildings
burned by the Confederate forces on leaving Richmond, was covered by a
policy which excepted losses resulting, from riots, civil commotions, insurrections, or invasions of a foreign enemy, is not a Federal question but one
of general law, the decision of which by a State court is not reviewable
here.

This was a motion to dismiss the writs of error on the ground
that no federal question was presented, and that the court was
without jurisdiction.
Jfr. Asslstant Attorney-General 2Ila'y and 311'. George F.
Edmwunds for the motion.
31r. Enwe

Totten, ..Mr. William B. Wfebb, and Mr. John

lToward, opposing.
MR. CfIEF

JUSTICE WAITE

voL. 0x-18

delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

We have no jurisdiction, in these cases. The suits were
brought on policies issued by the Mutual Assurance Society of
Virginia, one to John Grame, and the other to Seymour P.
Vial, insuring certain buildings of the respective parties against
such losses or damages as might be occasioned by accidental
fire or lightning, but expressly excepting from the risks losses
which resulted from riots, civil commotions, insurrections, or
from the invasion of a foreign enemy. The defence was that
the loss was not occasioned by an accidental fire, but that it resulted from a fire purposely set by the Confederate authorities
on the evacuation of Richmond in April, 1865, as a war measure, for the destruction of tobacco and military stores which
were liable to capture by the forces of the United States.
Neither party set up or claimed in the pleadings "any title,
right, privilege or immunity . . . under the Constitution,
or any treaty or statute of, or commission held or authority exercised under, the United States."
On the trial it was conceded that the buildings were destroyed
in the progress of a fire purposely set by the order of the Confederate States Government on the evacuation of Richmond
"in pursuance of its laws and policy to destroy military stores
and tobacco which were liable to capture by the forces of the
United States." The buildings insured were not actually set
on fire by the Confederate authorities, but they caught from a
fire that was so set. On these facts the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia decided that the gociety was not liable under
its policies. In the opinion filed the court said: "It is plain
that this fire, from which the appellants' buildings were burned,
resulted from the act of these military officers, acting under
express orders and by virtue of an act of Congress of the Confederate States of America. Certainly it cannot be said that
the fire which consumed the buildings of the appellants was an
accidental fire or a fire by lightning. The question is, how did
such fire result, and how was it occasioned? If it was occasioned by accident or by lightning, the company is responsible.
It is not responsible if occasioned by or resulted from riots, iisurrection, civil commotion, or the invasion of a foreign enemy."
Then, after considering the facts, it is further said: "I suppose

GRA.E v. MUTUAL ASSURANCE COMPANY.

275

Opinion of the Court.
that 'civil commotion' must necessarily arise where taere is
civil war. It is true there may be civil commotion ithout
civil war, but certainly there cannot be civil war without civil
commotion, and I think no man who lived in the late decade
would say that there was no civil commotion bet' veen 1861 and
1865. But the company not only protected itself against liability for loss occasioned by riots, insurrection, and civil commotions, but against the ' invasion of a foreign enemy.' In the
light of history and of facts, familiar to every man who opens
his eyes and sees material facts before him, is it not plain that.
the late war was a war of invasion, and that it was the invasion'
of an enemy, and that it was the invasion of 'a foreign enemy'?" And again: "Now, many authorities and opinions
might be quoted to the same effect, but, I think, those already
referred to are sufficient to show that the Confederate States
of America were, certainly as long as the war lasted, a separate
and independent government and foreign to the United States
of America."
It is upon these expressions in the opinion of the court, and
others like them, that our jurisdiction is'supposed to rest, but it
must be borne in mind that the only question for decision was
whether the society was liable on its policies for losses which
resulted from such a fire as that in which the insured buildings
were destroyed. The inquiry was not as to the rights of the
respective parties under the Constitution and laws of the United
States, but as to what was meant by certain words used in the.
contracts they had entered into; not whether secession was
constitutional, and the Confederate Government, which grew
out of it, a ]awful government, having authority to order the
fire to be set; but whether that government did so order, and,
if it did, whether the fire which followed was a fire which resulted from civil commotion, insurrections, or the invasion of a
foreign enemy, within the meaning of those terms as used in
the policies sued on; not whether the entry of the forces of the
Uiited States into Richmond was in fact the invasion of a foreign enemy, but only whether it was so in its legal effect upon
the rights of the parties under their contracts. These are
clearly questions of general, not Federal law, and such being

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

the case, the decision of them by the Court of Appeals is not
reviewable here.
The motions to dismiss are granted.

EXCHANGE NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH v.
THIRD NATIONAL BANK OF NEW YORK.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued November 6, 1884.-Decided November 24, 1884.

A bank in Pittsburgh sent to a bank in New York, for collection, eleven unac
cepted drafts, dated at various times through a period of over three months,
and payable four months after date. They were drawn on "Walter M.
Conger, Sec'y Newark Tea Tray Co., Newark, N. J.," and were sent to the
New York bank as drafts on the Tea Tray Company. The New York bank
sent them for collection to a bank in Newark, and, in its letters of transmission, recognized them as drafts on the company. The Newark bank
took acceptances from Conger individually, on his refusal to accept as secretary, bt no notice of that fact was given to the Pittsburgh bank, until
after the first one of the drafts had matured. At that time the drawers
and an indorser had become insolvent, the drawers having been in good
credit when the Pittsburgh bank discounted the drafts : fed, That the
New York bank was liable to the Pittsburgh bank for such damages as it
had sustained by the negligence of the Newark bank.
The Circuit Court having, on a trial before it without a jury, made a finding
of facts which did not cover the issue as to damages, and given a judgment
for the defendant, this court, on reversing that judgment, remanded the
case for a new trial, being unable to render a judgment for the plaintiff for
any specific amount of damages.

The Exchange National Bank of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
brought this suit against the Third National Bank of the City
of New York, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of New Jersey, to recover damages for the alleged
negligence of the defendant in regard to eleven drafts or bills
of exchange indorsed by the plaintiff to the defendant for collection. The suit was tried before the court without a jury. It
made a special finding of facts and rendered a judgment for

