EX PARTE ROYALL.
Opinion of the Court.

EX PARTE BOYALL.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted October 14, 184.-Decided November 10, 1884.

The act of March 27, 1868, 15 Stat. 44, took from this court the jurisdiction to
review on appeal a decision of a Circuit Court upon a writ of habeas cor-

pus. The court has no jurisdiction to review it on a writ of error.

This was a motion for leave to file a petition for a writ of
certiorari. The objects of the writ and the grounds for the
motion are stated in the opinion of the court.
A&. Williarm Z. Rcjall, the petitioner, in person.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The petition which we are asked to grant permission to file
prays for a writ of cedgtorari commanding "the clerk of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Virginia to certify to this court a full, true and perfect transcript of the record, judgment and proceedings had in the Circuit Court," under a writ of habecas corpus, issued by that court
on the application of the petitioner, for the purpose of an inquiry
into the cause of his detention by the Hustings Court of the
city of Richmond for trial upon an indictment found against
him in that court. The Circuit Court refused to discharge the
prisoner, but, on his "statin g that he intended to apply to this
M4R. C=IEF JUSTICE WAITE

.

.

.court

to review the order made by the Circuit Court,"

that court admitted him "to bail, the condition of his bond
being that he should appear here on the first day of the
present term, . . . and if this court should fail to make
any order in the case, then to appear before the . . . Circuit Court .
.
and abide by the further order of that

court."

The petition further prays that this court "may make

all such other orders as

.

.

.

petitioner's case may require,

and as may be necessary to give him the full protection of the
Constitution and laws of the United States. That the cause of
.

.

.

petitioner's unlawful custody may be inquired into,

and that the erroneous judgment of the Circuit Court may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

reviewed and reversed, and

.

.

.

petitioner restored to the

liberty of which he has been illegally and unconstitutionally
restrained."
This court has no jurisdiction; under the form of an appeal
or writ of error, to review a decision of a Circuit Court upon a
writ of habeas coripus in the case of a person "alleged to be
restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution or of
any law or treaty of the United States." Such an appeal was
given by the act of February 5, 1867, ch. 28, 14 Stat. 385, but
it was taken away by the act of March 27, 1868, ch.34, 15 Stat.
44, and has never been restored.
In Ev parto Yerger, 8 Wall. 85, 103, it was held "that, in
all cases where a Circuit Court of the United States has, in the
exercise of its original jurisdiction, caused a prisoner to be
brought before it, and has, after inquiring into the cause of detention, remanded him to the custody from which he was
taken, this court, in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction,
may, by the -writ of habeas corpus, aided by the writ of
certiorar, review the decision of the Circuit Court, and if it be
found unwarranted by law, relieve the prisoner from the unlawful restraint to which he has. been remanded." The jurisdiction is acquired by this court in such a case through its own
writ of hbeas corpus, and, until that is issued, there is no
power to proceed. In the present case no such writ is asked
for, and, as the Circuit Court has not yet remanded the prisoner
to the custody from which he was taken, he is in no condition
to apply for one under the ruling in Y erger's Case. We know
of no authority in the Circuit Court to take a bond from a
prisoner brought before it, by its own writ of ]abeas eorpus, to
appear in this court to answer that writ. It follows that, if we
had before us the record which it is sought to bring up by the
certiorari,we could not proceed to a review of the decision
complained of, and the motion for leave to file a petition for
the writ is
Denied.

