WHITNEY v. MORROW.

Opinion of the Court.
WHITNEY & Another v. MORROW.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
Argued December 2, 18,.-Decided January 5, 1885.

When an act of Congress, confirming a claim to land, contains a proviso that
the confirmation shall not include lands occupied by the United States for
military purposes, it is incumbeut upon one claiming the land by patent
from the United States, !i ter than the act, to show that the land claimed
was occupied for military purposes.
A direct legislative grant of public lands is the highest muniment of title, and
is not strengthened by a subsequent patent of the same land.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
fr. ..Enock Totten., for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was before this court at the October term of 1877.
95 U. S. 551. It is an action of ejectment for the possession
of a tract of land consisting of ninety-four acres and a fraction
of an acre, situated in the borough of Fort Howard, in Brown
County, Wisconsin. The plaintiffs derived their title to the
premises from one Pierre Grignon, to whom, on June , 18'to,
a patent wos issued by the United States. The defendant, in
his answer, sets up an adverse possession of the land in himself
and those through whom he derived his interest, for more than
forty years, under a claim of title, exclusive of any other right,
founded upon a written instrument as a conveyance of the
premises. It was admitted that he was in the possession of the
land at the commencement of the action, and on the trial he
relied, not only upon his adverse possession, but also upon a
legislative confirmation of a claim to it, under the act of February 21, 1823, by Alexis Gardapier, from whom he traced his
title. It appeared on that trial that commissioners under the
act, which revived and continued in force certain previous acts
for the adjustment of land claims in the Territory of 21ichiganlRf11. JUSTiCE FiEI.D

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

which then included Wisconsin-had confirmed a claim to land
presented by said Gardapier and one presented by Pierre Grignon. The confirmations were subject to the condition that the
tracts confirmed did not interfere with certain previous confirmations. On April 17, 1828, Congress confimed the acts
of the commissioners respecting these claims, that is, "confirmed the confirmations," with a proviso, however, that they
should not be so construed as to extend to any lands occupied
by the United States for military purposes. The act also made
it the duty of the register of the land office at Detroit to issue
to the claimants certificates, upon which patents -were to be
granted by the Commissioner of the General Land Office. But
it did not appear on the trial that any patent had ever been
issued to Gardapier. The court held that if, at the time of the
confirmation, the land claimed by him was not occupied by the
United States for military purposes, it operated to vest in him
a perfect title to the land, a legislative confirmation always
operating, unless accompanied with reservations, as a conveyance of the estate or right of the government, to the party
who is in possession of the premises or has an interest in them.
The tract confirmed appeared to have clearly defined boundaries, or, at least, such as were capable of identification. The
question, therefore, whether the land was thus occupied was of
the utmost ponsequence, and the defendant offered, in various
forms, to prove, by witnesses produced for that purpose, that
it was not thus occupied on the confirmation by Congress and
had not been previously; and also that for a period of nearly
forty years the land had been in the actual, open, notorious,
and exclusive possession of Gardapier and parties claiming
under him, and that during that time it had been cultivated,
improved, and built upon without objection from any one. But
the court refused to admit the proof, and also refused an instruction to the jury, which was requested, that, in order to
find for the plaintiff, they must be satisfied that the land was
occupied for military purposes on April 17, 1828, or was reserved for military purposes at that time, or was treated by the
government as thus reserved.
The plaintiff recovered, but for the error in this ruling and

WHITNEY v. MORROW.
Opinion of the Court.

refusal, this court reversed the judgment and ordered a now
trial.
On the second trial, the judgment in which is now before us
for review, no proof was offered of the military occupation,
the plaintiffs relying upon the patent to Grignon, and the
defendant upon the legislative confirmation of the clain to
Gardapier, which operated to perfect his title to the tract
named, including the rremises in controversy, if it were not
excepted by its occupation by the United States for military
purposes. Such an exception, if it existed, should have been
established by the plaintiffs, whose right to the premises depended upon its existence. If the land was thus occupied, the
confirmation did not apply, and it remained public property.
That which was essential to the plaintiff's recovery was not,
therefore, established, nor was any evidence offered for that
purpose. The confirmation to Gardapier and the title which
followed to the tract designated stood unquestioned, and justified the direction given to the jury that they should find for
the defendant.
It would seem that the plaintiffs offered a patent to Gardapier, also issued in 1870, and that its admission was refused.
We cannot see what bearing it may have had, as a copy of it
is not contained nor are its contents stated in the record. It
could not deprive the confirmee of the land confirmed to him
by the act of Congress if that was by specific boundaries, distinguishing and separating it from other parcels, or was capable of identification. If, by a legislative declaration, a specific
tract is confirmed to any one his title is not strengthened by a
subsequent patent from the government. That instrument
may be of great service to him in proving his title, if contested,
and the extent of his land, especially when proof of its boundaries would otherwise rest in the uncertain recollection of witnesses. It would thus be an instrument of quiet and security
to him, but it could not add to the validity and completeness
of the title confirmed by the act of Congress. Zangdeau v.
flanes, 21 Wall. 521; Ryan v. Carter, 93 U. S. '78; Tripp v.
,spring,5 Sawyer, 209, 216.
If there were any difference in the grade of the two convey-

'OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

ances of the government-that by a direct legislative act, and
that by officers acting under provisions of the statute-it would
ceem that there should be greater weight and dignity attached
to the legislative grant as proceeding more immediately from
the source of title than the patent. No impeachment can be
had of the motives of the legislature whereas the motives of
officers employed to supervise the alienation of public lands
may sometimes be questioned, as in proceedings to set aside
their action. Still, if the law be complied with, the title
passes as completely in the one case as in the other. Xaontgomery v. Bevanvs, 1 Sawyer, 653, 677.
Judgment affirmed.

KNICKERBOCKER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
PENDLETON{ & Others.

.

IN ERROR TO THE CIRCm T COURT OF TE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued November 11, 1884.-Decided January 5, 1885.
Policy of iife insurance being conditioned to be void if the annual premium,
or any obligation given in payment thereof, should not be paid at maturity;
and the annual premium being paid by a foreign bill drawn by the party
insured, with a condition that if not paid at maturity the policy should be
void: Held, That the forfeiture was incurred by non-payment of the bill,
on presentment, at maturity, without protest for non-payment, althqugh
protest might be necessary to fix the liability of the drawer. Sermble, if it
had been the bill of a stranger, protest would have been necessary for the
forfeiture also.
Presentment and non-acceptance of the bill before maturity, without protest,
did not dispense with presentment for payment, in order to produce the
forfeiture.
Want of funds in the hands of the drawee was no excuse for not presenting
the bill, if the drawer had reasonable expectation to believe that it would
be accepted and paid.
Preliminary proof of death not required, if the insurer, on being notified
thereof, denies his liability altogether, and declares that the insurance will
not be paid.

