OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabuk.

the-petitioners had a clear right to such a writ: wherefore the
petitioners prayed for a rule to the judges of the court below
to show cause :why mandamus should not issue commanding
them to allow a writ of error to said judgment, and to fix the
penalty of the bond in error, and to sign a citation on said writ
of error.
.2f'.F. S. Blair, Attorney-General of Virginia, for petitioners.
JMR.

CHEF

JusTicE WA E delivered the opinion of the court.

A writ of mandamus is not ordinarily granted when the
party aggrieved has another adequate remedy. No formal allowance by the Circuit Court of a writ of error from this court
to review a judgment of that court is required. Davidson v.
Lanisr, 4 Wall. 453. The writ issues in a proper case as a
matter of right, but, when sued out, security must be given,
and a citation to the adverse party signed. This security may
be taken and the citation signed by a judge of the Circuit
Court, or any justice of this court. No action of the Circuit
Court as a court is required. It does not appear from the petition that any application has been made to either of the judges
of the Circuit Court to approve security or to sign a citation.
If they should refuse on application hereafter, resort may be
had to either of the justices of this court. It will be time
enough to apply for a mandamus when all these remedies have
failed.
-MIotio'n denied.

EX PARTE CROUCH.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted October 14, 168.-Decided November 10, 1884.

The writ of habeas corpus from this court cannot be used to correct or prevent
possible future errors, in violation of the Constitution of the United States,
by a State court in a cause pending in that court in which the parties and
the subject matter are within its jurisdiction.

EX PARTE CROUCH.
Opinion of the Court.

This was a motion for leave to file a petition for a writ of
habeas corpus. The gr9unds for the motion are stated in the
opinion of the court.
AI.

WMlliam I. 1oyall for the motion.

delivered the opinion of the court.
This petition is denied. The general revenue law of Virginia provides that no person shall do business in the State as
a "sample merchant" until he has obtained a license therefor,
on payment of a tax of seventy-five dollars; and that, if he
does, he shall pay a fine of five hundred dollars for the first
offence, and six hundred dollars for each succeeding offence.
Acts of Virginia, 1884, ch. 445, ยง 30, 31, pp. 578, 579. The
petitioner has been informed against, and is now held in custody for trial by ordei of the Hustings Court of the City of
Richmond, for a violation of this law. According to the statements in the petition presented to us, the defence of the petitioner, upon the trial of that case, will be a tender by him, before commencing business, to the proper revenue officer of the
State, of the amount of the required license tax, in coupons cut
from State bonds, which the State when it issued the bonds
agreed should be receivable in payment of all State dues; and
a refusal of the officer to accept the tender and give a proper
certificate therefor, because by a tatute, enacted after the issue
of the bonds, the tax-receiving officers were prohibited from
taking the coupons for this tax. The right of the petitioner to
a writ of habeas corpus from this court is put in the petition on
the ground that the petitioner is detained in custody by the
State court, in violation of the Constitution of the United
States, because the statute which prohibits the officer from accepting the coupons impairs the obligation of the contract of
the State to receive them, and is, on that account, inoperative'
and void, by reason of the provision of the Constitution which
precludes the States from passing such laws.
It is not claimed that the law which imposes the tax and
fixes tho penalty for doing business without its payment is unconstitutional. INeither is it pretended that the Hustings Court
M. CmF JusTiCE WArTE

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

has not plenary jurisdiction for the trial of persons charged
with a violation of the law. The petitioner is, therefore, in
the custody of a State court of competent jurisdiction, and held
for trial upon an information for violating a criminal statute of
the State. He seeks to be discharged by habeas corpus, not
because, if guilty of the charge which has been made against
him, the court is without jurisdiction to hold him for trial, and
to convict and sentence him, but because, as he alleges, he hasa valid defence to the charge, which grows out of a provision
in the Constitution of the United States, aid, for this reason,
he insists he is detained in violation of the Constitution. It is
elementary learning that, if a prisoner is in the custody of a
State court of competent jurisdiction, not illegally asserted, he
cannot be taken from that jurisdiction and discharged on habeas
corpus issued by a court of the United States, simply because
he is not guilty of the offence for which he is held. All questions which may arise in the orderly course of the proceeding
against him are to be determined by the court to whose jurisdiction he has been subjected, and no other court is authorized
to interfere to prevent it. Here the right of the prisoner to a
discharge depends alone on the sufficiency of his defence to the
information under which he is held. Whether his defence is
sufficient or not is for the court which tries him to determine.
If in this determination errors are committed, they can only be
corrected in an appropriate form of proceeding for that pur-'
pose. The office of a writ of habeas corpus is neither to correct
such errors, nor to take' the prisoner away from the court
which holds him for trial, for fear, if he remains, they may be
committed. Authorities to this effect in our own reports are
numerous. Ex partelfatkins, 3 Pet. 202; . parte Lange, 18
Wall. 163, 166 ; .FEjxare Pa7., 92 U. S. 18, 23; ExparteSiebold, 100 U.S. 371,374;.Exparte Fbginia,Id. 339, 343; ExParte
.Rowland,1041 U. S. 604, 612; Ex }arte Cu'ftis, 106 U. S. 371,
375; .Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, 653. Of course,
what is here said has no application to writs of habeas elymcs
cum causa, issued by the courts of the United States, in aid of
their jurisdiction, upon the removal of suits or prosecutions from
State courts for trial under the authority of an act of Congress.
.Deied.

