OCTOBER TERM, '1884.
Syllabus.
MR. C=IF JUSTICE WArTE delivered the opinion

of the

court. lHe stated the facts in the foregoing language and continued:
The judgment below was clearly right. The Columbus,
Chicago &, Indiana Central Company was, in equity, the
owner of the property when the lease was made and when the
Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis Company went into possession under it. The deed executed in February, 1872, pursuant to the contract of purchase, converted the equitable title of
the Columbus, Chicago & Indiana Central Company into a
legal title, which at once, by operation of law, inured to the
benefit of the Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis Company
under its lease. All the rights of William B. Skidmore, as
against- the property, accrued long after those of the Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St. Louis Company and are subject to the
title of that company. Such being the case, it is entirely
unnecessary to inquire whether the Skidmores acquired a valid
title to the property as against the Columbus, Chicago & Indiana Central Company. The Pittsburg, Cincinnati & St.
Louis Company is entitled to the possession, whether that title
be good or bad.
The judgrncnt~'~i 'med.

DAVIES, Collector, v. CORBIN & Others.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Submitted April 14, 1834.-Decided October 27, 1884.

An order awarding a peremptory writ of mandamus which directs the collector of taxes of a county to collect a tax that had been duly levied and extended on the county tax books is a final judgment subject to review when
the other conditions exist.
The power to review the judgment in a proceeding for mandamus to enforce the
collection of a tax to pay all judgment creditors of a specified class, depends
upon the amount of the whole tax ordered to be collected, and not upon
the amount of the judgment debts due to each or any individual petitioner.

Mfotion to dismiss. The facts on which the motion was founded

DAVIES v. CORBIN.
Statement of Facts.

were these: Each of the defendants in error recovered a separate and distinct judgment in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Etstern District of Arkansas against the
The aggregate of all the judgments
county of Chicot.
was much more than $5,000, but the amount due upon each
is not stated. After the judgments were recovered, the several plaintiffs commenced proceedings in the Circuit Court to
compel the county court of the county to levy a tax for the
payment of the amounts due them respectively. The result of
these proceedings was that, after the several writs of mandamus were issued, "by the consent of the relators, and by and
with the approval and consent of the Circuit Court, it was agreed
.
would levy a tax of ten mills
that if the county court
upon the property of said county and collect the same, said tax to
be distributed ff'o ''ata among the judgments so recovered by
the relators and others against said county" in the Circuit
Court, "th i t such levy, collection and distribution would be
accepted by the relators and the other judgment creditors, as a:
sufficient compliance by said county court with the commands
of the said writs of mandamus." The county court carried out
this agreement and levied the tax, which was in due form of
law extended on the tax books and placed in the hands of
Davies, the collector of the taxes of the county, for collection
with the other taxes for that ydar. After the tax book was
delivered to the collector he undertook the collection thereof,
as he was bound in law to do, and proceeded until, "on the 29th
day of January, 1881, being the last day of the January term
of the Chicot County Court, there was filed in open court a
complaint in equity, by one Alice R. Hamlet, against" him,
"setting up among other facts, that she was the owner of certain lands in Chicot County, assessed, for the year 1883, at
$400; that no valid assessment had been made of said lands
for various reasons therein set forth; that the board of equalization for said county, which met on the 19th day of June,
1883, was illegally organized, and proceeded, in violation of law,
to alter and change the assessments of real and personal property turned over to it by the clerk of said county; and averring that assessments were not legally equaliced, and that there

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Motion.

is no valid assessment of property in said county for the year
1883, and that the taxes levied on said assessments cannot be
legally enforced by sale or otherwise, against the objection of
the tax-payers of said county." The complaint further set
forth "the various assessments or rates of taxes levied by the
county court for different purposes for the year 1883, including
ten mills to pay the judgments against said county" in the
Circuit Court. Under this complaint "a temporary restraining
order was made by the Hon. John M&I.
Bradley, judge cf said
court, forbidding" the collector "from collecting any portion
of said ten-mill tax." In obedience to this injunction, the collector stopped the collection of the "ten-mill tax," though he
went on with all the rest.
Thereupon all the relators united in an application to the Circuit Court for a rule on the collector to show caus.e why a peremptory writ of mandamus should not issue commanding him
to proceed with the collection of the ten-mill tax. The collector appeared in obedience to the rule, and for cause showed
that he had been enjoined by the State court from making the
collection. The parties went to a hearing on the application
of the relators and the return of the collector to the rule. The
Circuit Court, after hearing, awarded the writ, and for the reversal of an order to that effect this writ of error was brought,
by the collector. The relators then moved to dismiss the writ
for the following reasons: "First.-Because the said writ of
error is sued out upon an order of said Circuit Court for the
enforcement of its peremptory writ of mandamus, theretofore
duly and regularly issued in accordance with law and the practice of said court, which order is not a ftnal judgment of said
Circuit Court, and is, therefore, not such a judgment, order or
proceeding as can legally be brought to this court by writ of
error, and is not within the jurisdiction of this court. Second.
-And because the amount in controversy does not exceed the
sum of five thousand dollars, wherefore the same is not within
the jurisdiction of this court."
. ,.B. C. Brown, 31r. E. T.Kimball and i1.r.C. P. RedmondZ
in support of the motion.-I. The judgment below was not a

DAVIES v. CORBIN.
Opinion of the Court.

final judgment to which a writ of error lies. Boyle v. Zaclarie,
6 Pet. 648; Piekett's Heirs v. Legerwood, 7 Pet. 144; Evans
v. Gee, 14 Pet. 1; Ames v. Smith, 16 Pet. 303; Brockett v.
Broekett, 2 How. 238; Wylie v. Coxe, 14 How. 1; Connor v.
Peugh's Lessee, 18 How. 394; .Doswell v. De La Lanza, 20
How. 29; .ifo~Crgo v. C]7upman, 20 How. 555; Callan v.
.lfay, 2 Black, 541; Gregg v. Forsyth, 2 Wall. 563; Sparraw v.
Strong, 3 Wall. 97, 103; Bart n v. Forthsyth, 5 Wall. 190 ;
Cooke v. Burnley, 11 Wall. 659, 62.-11. The amount in controversy is not sufficient to give jurisdiction. No tax-payer
will pay on the levy more than $1,500. If not the amount
which each tax-payer has to pay, on this levy, then the amount
which each creditor, separately, will receive from this levy, so
far as value is concerned, fixes the jurisdiction of this court.
clffton, v. Shekon, 1 Black, 494; Rich v. Lambert,12 H ow. 34:7;
8 Pet. 4;
Oliver v. Alexander, 6 Pet. 143; Stratton v. Jais,
&-aver v. Bigelows, 5 Wall. 208; Piving Comp)any v. iujford,
100 U. S. 147; Terry v. Hatch, 93 U. S. 44 ; Chaieleldv. Boyle,
105 U. S. 231; Russell v Stansell, 105 U. S. 303; Parkerv.
.Eo'rill, 106 U. S. 1.
.ifr. A. Z Garland for plaintiff in error, contra.
3h. CHIEF JusmcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
He stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The relators moved to dismiss the writ, because, 1, an order
awarding a peremptory writ of mandamus is not a "final
judgment ;" and, 2, the value of the matter in dispute
does not exceed $5,000, inasmuch as no one of the relators
will be "entitled to receive of the tax collected so much as five
thousand dollars, and no single tax-payer will be required to
pay that amount of tax." A motion to affirm, as allowed by
Rule 6, ยง 5, has not been united, as it very properly might
have.been, with this motion to dismiss.
As to the first objection, it is sufficient to say that the practice of the court has always been the other way. Our reports
are full of cases in which jurisdiction of this kind has been
entertained, and from 1867, when Riggs v. Johnson. County,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

6 Wall. 166, was decided, until now, our power to review such
orders as final judgments has passed substantially unchallenged.
While the writ of mandamus, in cases like this, partakes of the
nature of an execution to enforce the collection of a judgment,
it can only be got by instituting an independent suit for that
purpose. There must be, first, a showing by the relator in
support of his right to the writ ; and, second, process to bring
in the adverse party, whose action is to be coerced, to show
cause, if he can, against it. If he appears and presents a defence, the sho" ings of the parties make up the pleadings in the
cause, and any issue of law or fact that may be raised must
be- judicially determined by the court before the writ can go
oul. Such a determination is, under the circumstances, a judgment in acivil action brought to secure a right, that is to say,
process -to enforce a judgment. The proceeding may be
likened to a creditor's bill in equity, which is resorted to in
aid of execution. The writ which is wanted cannot be had on
application to a ministerial officer. It can only issue after a
judgment of the court to that effect in an independent adversary proceeding instituted for that special purpose. Such a
judgment is, in our opinion, a final judgment in a civil action,
within the meaning of that term as used in the statutes regulating writs of error to this court.
The second objection is, to our minds, equally untenable.
The writ which has been ordered in this case is not like that
in Hawley v. Fairbavks,108 U. S. 543, to compel the levy of
taxes to pay separate and distinct judgments, in favor of several
relators, who, for convenience and to save expense, united in
one suit to enforce their respective rights, but to compel a tax
collector to collect a single tax which has been levied for the
joint benefit of all the relators, and in which they have a common
and undivided interest. As in the cases of Sliields v. 7/anna. ,
17 How. 3, 5, and The Con nemara, 103 U. S. 754, all the relators clain under one and the same title, to wit, the levy of a
tax which has been made for their benefit. They have a common interest in the tax, and it'is perfectly immaterial to the
tax collector how it is divided among them. Ile has no controversy with them on that point; and if there is any difliculty

MELLEN v. WALLACK
Syllabus.

as to the proportions in which they are to share the proceeds
of his collections, the dispute will be among 'themselves and
not with him. le cannot act upon separate-instructions from
the several creditors. Hs duty is to collect the tax for the
benefit of all alike. A payment of the judgment of one
creditor would not relieve him from his obligation to collect the
whole tax. The object of the proceeding is, not to raise the
sums due the relators, but to raise the whole tax of ten mills
on the dollar. As the matter stands, each relator has the right
to have the whole tax collected for the purpose of distribution
among all the creditors. It is apparent, therefore, that the
dispute is between the tax collector on one side and all the
creditors on the other, as to his duty to collect the tax as a
whole for division among them, after the collection is made,
according.to their several shares. The value of the matter in
dispute is measured by the whole amount of the tax, and not
by the separate parts into which it is to be divided when collected. It is conceded that the amount of the tax is more
than $5,000.
T~e Twtion to dismiss is overfzled.

MELLEN v. WALLACH.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREMIE COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued Apr! 24, 18.-Decided NovembQ- 3,1884.

Under a deed of trust to secure 31., covering land in the District of Columbia,
owned by B. and W., as tenants in common, the land was sold to B., in
1873. The amount secured by the deed was $5,000 of principal and
$2,429.02 interest, expenses and taxes. The sale was for enough to pay all
this and leave a sum due to W. for her share of the surplus. The terms of
sale were not carried out, but M. advanced to B. $3,200 more (out of which
the $2,429.02 was paid), and took a deed of trust for $8,200, which was
recorded as a first lien. A deed of trust to secure the amount going to W.
was recorded as a second lien, but.was never accepted by W. Litigation
afterwards ensued, to which M and B. and W. were parties, and in which
a sale of the land was ordered and made in 1881, and -. bought it, for a
sum not sufficient to pay the 7,429.02, with interest, and the subsequent

