OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

KANSAS PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

-

Argued NoVember 4, 5, 1834.-Decided Decembdr 8, 1884.

Under the act of March 3, 1863, 12 Stat. 772, granting lands to Kansas to aid
in the construction of railroads, no title could be acquired in any specific
tracts as indemnity lands until actual selection ; and no selection could be
made of lands appropriated by Congress to other purposes prior to the date
of the selection.
Upon the admission of a Territory into the Union, corporations created under
laws of the Territory become corporations of the State.
In judicial proceedings in courts of the United States to enforce contracts or
rights of property, a corporation is regarded as a citizen of the State creating it.

This was a suit in equity brought up on appeal from an adverse decree of the Circuit Court in Kansas (see 2 McCrary, 550).
The objects of the suit and the facts which make the case are
set forth in the opinion of the court.
.1,f.

.P. l7wer for appellant.

-Mr.Joines Hagerman and fr. J H. Nf Gowan for appellee.
MR. JTsricE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff and the defendant were incorporated by the
Territorial Legislature of Kansas; and the question in controversy relates to land which they respectively claim under
grants from the United States. The plaintiff's original name
was the Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western Railroad Company, and it is thus termed in the act of Congress of 1862
creating the Union Pacific Railroad Company. After the
Territory became a State that name was changed to the Union
Pacific Railroad Company, Eastern Division, and the corpora-

KANSAS PACIFIC v. ATCHISON RAILROAD.

415

Opinion of the Court.
tion was so called in subsequent legislation of Congress until
some time in 1869, when it received its present designation.
The admission of Kansas as a State into the Union, and the
consequent change of its form of government, in no respect
affected the essential character of the corporations or their
powers or rights. They must after that change be considered
as corporations of the State, as much so as if they had derived
their existence from its legislation. As its corporations -they
are to be treated, so far as may be necessary to enforce contracts or rights of property by or against them, as citizens
within the clause of the Constitution declaring the extent of
the judicial power of the United States. It has been expressly
held that they are to be so considered when they have controversies with citizens of other States. And the same course of
reasoning which led to this decision must also lead to the conclusion that in all cases where a federal court can take jurisdiction of controversies between citizens, whether of different
States or of the same State, it will take jurisdiction of like controversies between corporations, and treat them as citizens of
the State under whose laws they were created or continue to
exist.
The Constitution declares that the judicial power of the
United States shall extend to all cases in law and equity arising under it, the laws of the United States, and treaties made
under their authority. The act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470,
invests the Circuit Court with original cognizance, concurrent
with the courts of the several States, "of all suits of a civil
nature at common law or in equity" thus arising, where the
matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value
of $500. The reasons for granting this jurisdiction, and for investing it in the Circuit Courts, are as applicable where the
controversies are between citizens united under a corporate
name, as where they are between citizens in their individual
capacity. A private corporation is, in -fact, but an association
of individuals united for a lawful purpose and permitted to use
a common name in their business, and to have a change of
members without dissolution. As said by Chief Justice Marshall in Providenee Bank v. Bilings, 4 Pet. 514, at p. 562:

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

"-The grant of incorporation is to bestow the character and
properties of individuality on a collective and changing body
of men."
The controversy in this case arises upon laws of the United
States. As far back as Co)Lens v. Frginia,6 Wheat. 264, 379,
decided more than sixty years ago, it was said that a case may
be considered to arise under the Constitution or a law of the
United States whenever its correct decision depends upon the
construction of either. The same thing is expressed by the
statem~nt that a case arises under the Constitution or laws of
the United States whenever the rights set up by a party may
be defeated by one construction or sustained by the opposite
construction. Osborne v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat.
738. Here both corporations claim title to the same land in
Kansas under different acts of Congress, and the decision
depends upon the construction given to those acts. It is, therefore, clear that the court below had jurisdiction of the subject
of the suit and of the parties.
The plaintiff claims under the act of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489,
to aid the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from the
1fJissouri River to the Pacific Ocean, and acts amending or supplementing it. That act granted to the company formed under
its provisions, for every mile of the road, five sections of public
land designated by odd numbers on each side of the line of the
road within the limit of ten miles, which were not sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of by the United States, and to
which a pre-emption or homestead claim had not attached at
the time the line was definitely fixed. It also pro-,ided that
whenever the company -had conirpleted forty consebutive miles
of any portion of the road and telegraph line, and supplied all
necessary equipments and appurtenances of a first-class road,
the President of the United States should appoint three commissioners to examine the same, and if they reported that the
road and telegraph line had been constructed and equipped in
all respects as required, patents were to issue for the adjacent
lands. An -examination was to be had, as each successive
section of forty miles was completed, and, upon a favorable
report of the commissioners, other similar, patents were to

KANSAS PACIFIC v. ATCHISON RAILROAD.

417

Opinion of the Court.
issue. Within one year after its passage the company was
required to file in the Department of the Interior its assent to
the act, and within two years afterwards to designate the general route of its road as near as might be, and to file a map of
the same in that department. The Secretary bf the Interior
was then to withdraw the lands within fifteen miles of the
designated route from pre-emption, private entry, and sale, and
when any portion of the road was finally located he was to
cause the lands granted to be surveyed and set off as fast as
necessary for the purposes mentioned.
On the 2d of July, 1864, an amendatory act was passed
doubling the grant, and extending the limits within which the
lands were to be withcfrawn to twenty-five miles, but declaring
that neither act should defeat or impair any pre-emption, homestead, swamp-land or other lawful claim, nor include any government reservation or mineral lands. 13 Stat. 356. It contained no express words of n~w and additional grant, but provided that the numbers in the act of 1S62 should be stricken
out and larger numbers inserted in lieu thereof. Thenceforth
the act of 1862 is to be read as against the United States and
all parties not having acquired in the mean time paramount
rights, as though the substituted numbers were originally inserted therein. .Xissou', .Ynsas & Texas .Railroad Co. v.
Kan.as Pacifl Rail'oad CO., 97U. S. 491,497 ; unitedStaesv.
Burlington, &e., Railroad Co., 98 U. S. 334. The title to the
increased quantity of land must, with the exceptions mentioned,
therefore, be deemed to have passed to the grantee at the date
of the original act.
That act contemplated the connection of several branch
roads with the main line, one of which the plaintiff was to
construct. It directed the President to designate the initial
point of that line in Nebraska, on the 100th meridian west from
Greenwich, at which the eastern branches were to unite, and
authorized the plaintiff to construct a railroad and telegraph
line from the Missouri River at the month of the Kansas River
at the south side thereof, so as to connect with the Pacific road
of Missouri at that point. In. case the general route of the
main line was located so as to require a departure northerly
VOL. cxn-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

from the proposed Kansas road before it reached that meridian,
the location of that road was to conform to it. The route in
Kansas west of the meridian of Fort Riley to the initial point
mentioned was to be subject to the. approval of the President
after actual survey.
The amendatory act of 1864 enlarged the grants madeto all
the brinches of the main road. As Was said by this court, in
United -States v. Burlington; &e., Railroad Co. 98 U. S. 341:
"All the reasons which led to the enlargement of the original
grant led to its enlargement to the branches. It was the intention of Congress, both in the original and in the amendatory act, to place the Union Pacific Company, and all its branch
companies, upon the same footing as to lands, privileges, and
duties, to the extent of their respective roads, except when it
was otherwise especially stated. Such has been the uniform
construction given to the acts by all departments of the government. Patents have been issued, bonds given, mortgages
executed, and legislation had upon this construction. This uniform action is as potential, and as conclusive of the soundness
of the construction, as if it hadbeen declared by judicial decision. It cannot at this day be called in question."
On the 3d of July, 1866, Congress passed an act enabling
the plaintiff to designate the general route of its road, and to

-file a map thereof at any, time before .the 1st of December,
1866, and providing that after the filing of the map the lands
along its entire line, so far as it was designated, should be reserved from sale by the Secretary of the Interior. It also
provided that the company should connect its line of road and
telegraph with the Union Pacific road at a point not more than
fifty miles westerly from the meridian of Denver, in Colorado.
It is conceded that the plaintiff in due time filect in the Department of the Interior its acceptance of the acts of 1862
and 1864, commenced the construction of its road under them,
completed it within the required time, and complied with the
terms and conditions essential to entitle it to the lands granted;
that on the 10th of January, 1866, it filed with the Secretary
of the Interior a map of the definite location of its road, showing the dates of the actual location of its various parts in com-

KANSAS PACIFIC v. ATCHISON RAILROAD.

419

Opinion of' the Court.
pliance with his instructions; that the road was located along
and contiguous to the lands in controversy before February 4,
1865; that upon that location the road was afterwards duly
constructed; that on February 6, 1866, the location was approved by the Commissioner of the General Land Office; that
by instructions soon afterwards given the odd-numbered sections of land within twenty miles of the road were withdrawn
from sale and reserved for its use; that the railroad along and
adjacent to the lands in controversy was completed and accepted by the President before December 14, 1866, and by his
order the Secretary of the Interior was directed to issue patents
to the plaintiff for the adjacent lands under the grant; that
the lands in controversy in this case are odd sections within
twenty miles of the line of the railroad as th.s constructed
and accepted, and were public lands July 1, 1862, and have
not since been entered under any pre-emption or homestead
law or otherwise reserved or disposed of by. the United States,
unless they are embraced in a grant to the State of "ansas by
virtue of an act of Congress of March 3, 1863, 1, Stat. 772,
under which the defendant claims. If not thus embraced the
title of the plaintiff to them is clear.
By that act Congress granted lands to the State of EKansas
for the purpose of aiding in the construction of various railroads, one of which was to extend from the city of Atchison
via Topeka, the capital of that State, to its western line in the
direction of Fort Union and Santa F6, New Mexico, with a
branch down the Neosho Valley to a point where the Leavenworth and Lawrence road entered it. The lands were thealternate sections designated by odd numbers for ten sections
in width on each side of the proposed road. The grant was
accompanied with a proviso that in case it should appear when
the lines or routes of the road should be definitely fixed that
the United States had sold any section granted or any part
thereof, or that the right of pre-emption or homestead settlement had attached to it, or that it had been reserved by the
United States for any purpose whatever, then it should be the
duty of the Secretary of the Interior to select from the public
lands, nearest to the tiers of sections specified, an equal amount

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Cour.

of land in alternate sections or parts of sections, designated by
odd numbers, not previously sold, reserved, or otherwise appropriated, to be held by the State of Kansas for the like uses
and purposes. The legislature of the State, by an act passed
February 9, 1864, accepted the grant from the United States,
and, in consideration that the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6
Railroad Company would construct the road mentioned, direcfed the governor of the State, whenever any twenty consecutive miles were completed, to convey to that company by
patent the lands granted by Congress' to aid in its construetion, to be selected opposite to and within the limit of ten miles
of the road. On the 16th of the same month the company
accepted the provisions of this act and filed its acceptance with
the Secretary of State. On the 19th of March following, before any route of the road had been designated by the company
or any map of it filed, the Commissioner of the General Land
Office made an order withdrawing from private sale or location, and from pre-emption or homestead entry, all the public
lands lying within ten iniles of lines marked by him on a diagram as "the probable lines" of the road and its branches.
This order was made at the request o' Senators and Representatives in Congress from Kansas, and was approved by the
Secretary of the Interior. On the 1st of January, 1866, the
company fied in the Department of the Interior a map or profile of its road from Topeka to Emporia, adjacent to which and
within twenty miles thereof are the iands in controversy. It
is conceded that afterwards the road was constructed in full
compliance with the act of Congress and the act of the State
of Kansas, and that it was duly approved and accepted by the
proper authorities. When its line was definitely fixed it appeared that of the lafids lying within the limits of ten miles
thereof, many sections and parts of sections had been sold by
the United States, and to many the right of pre-emption and
homestead settlement had attached, and that some had been
reserved by the United States for other purposes, thus greatly
diminishing the quantity which would otherwise be covered by
the grant. To make up the deficiency the Secretary of the
Interior selected the lands in controversy, taking them from

KANSAS PACIFIC v. ATCHISON RAILROAD.

421

Opinion of the Court.
alternate sections designated by odd numbers, nearest the tiers
of sections within the ten-mile limit, but outside of that limit
and within twenty miles of the road. These indemnity lands
were certified to the State by the land department against the
objections of the plaintiff, and the proper officers of the State
in May, 1873, executed a patent of them to the company.
The question, therefore, for determination is, whether the
grant to Kansas, by the act of Congress of March 3, 1863,
covered the title to these indemnity lands. We are clear that
it did not. It granted only alternate sections, designated by
o(1 numbers, within the limit of ten miles, and from them
certain portions were to be excepted. For what was thus excepted other lands were to be ,selected from. adjacent lands, if
any then remained, to which no. other valid claims had originated. But what unappropriated lands would thus be found
and selected could not be known before actual selection. A
right to s6lect them within certain limits, in case of deficiency
within with the ten-mile limit, was alone conferred, not
a right to any specific land or lands capable of identification by any principles of law or rules of measurement.
Neither locality nor quantity is given from which such lands
could be ascertained. If, therefore, when such selection wasto be made, the lands from which the deficiency was to be
supplied had been' appropriated by Congress to other purposes,
the right of selection became a barren right, for until selection
was made the title remained in the government, subject to its
disposal at its pleasure. The grant to the Kansas Pacific Company, by the act of 1862, carried the odd sections within the
limit of ten miles from its road, and by the act of 1864 such
sections withifi the limit of twenty miles. The act of 1862 is
to be construed, as already said, as though the larger number
were originally inserted in it, and, with the exceptions stated, it
must be held to pass the title to the grantee as against the
United States, and against all persons not having acquired that
title previous to the amendment. The grant to Kansas, as
stated, conferred only a right to select lands beyond ten miles
from the defendant's road, upon certain contingencies. It gave
no title to indemnity lands in advance of their selection.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Comt.

By the very terms of the grant to Kansas, as we have seen,
there was excepted from it any sections or parts thereof which
the United States had sold or reserved for any purpose, or to
which a pre-emption or homestead settlement had attached
before the line of the road or its branches had been definitely
fixed. And the Secretary was required to select, for like purposes, outside of the limits of the grant, as much lands, says
the act, "as shall be equal to such lands as the United States
have sold, reserved, or otherwise ap ropriated,or to which the
rights of pre-emption or homestead settlements have attached
as aforesaid." The reservation "for any .purpose" is thus
made to cover not merely a specific reservation in terms for
the uses of the United States, but any appropriation of the
lands by the government.
The line of the road of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe
Company was not definitely fixed until 1866. Until then the
appropriation of lands, even within the limits of the grant,
much less so of lands without them, was in no respect an impairment of its rights. The appropriation outside of those
limits only lessened the number of sections from which the
Secretary might under certain contingencies have the right to
select indemnity lands; it had no other effect. The order of
withdrawal of lands along the "probable lines" of the defendant's road made on the 19th of March, 1863, by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, affected no rights which
without it would have been acquired to the lands, nor in any
respect controlled the subsequent grant. And besides, it only
purported to apply to lands within the ten-mile limit, and the
lands in controversy lie outside of it, although the court
below, overlooking the stipulation of the parties, stated the
fact to be otherwise, an error which probably misled it to its
conclusion.
It follows from the views expressed that the plaintilf, the
Kansas Pacific Railway Company, under the acts of Congress
of 1862 and 1864, by a compliance with all their provisions in
the construction of its road, acquired the title to the lands in
controversy, and has accordingly a right to record evidence of
it in the form of a patent..

423

RICHARDSON v. TRAYER.
Opinion of the Court.

The decree of the court below is rev~rsecd andthe case remanded,
with directions to enter a decree adiudging that the title to
the lands in contrversy passed to the jolaintiff undce' the
acts of Comre,8 of 1862 and 1864; and that the defendant
execute to the plaintifa conveycnce of its claim and interest therein.

RICHARDSON v. TRAVER.
"PEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted November 14, IE.-Decided December 8,184.

H & 31, being owners in common of a tract of land covered by a mortgage to
D, from whom they purchased, agreed to partition, H taking tract 1, T1taking tract 2, and tract 3 being subdivided between them. Il agreed to assame the mortgage tb D, and that H should take his portion free from the
encumbrance. 31 sold his interest to Y, who borrowed from R through his
agents to make the purchase, mortgaged his interest in tract 2 to secure the
money borrowed, and agreed to apply the money borrowed to obtain a release of tract 2 from the mortgage. Instead of doing it hc obtained with it
a release of tract 3. Subsequently with money obtained from sale of lots
in tract 3, and with other money advanced by them, R's agents acquired
the notes secured by his mortgage : .eld, Thatunder all the circumstances
of this case, this was to be regarded as a payment of the mortgage notes, and
that R as against H was not entitled to be subrogated in the place of D, with
the right to enforce the mortgage against tract 2.

This was an appeal from. a decree in equity of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois. The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion
of the court.
31r. FredericC. Ingalls for appellant.
.31'. A. . cCoy for appellee.
the court.
The facts, as shown by the testimony in this. case, are these:
On or about the 19th of December, 1870,Henry J. Traver, the
appellee, and Michael Traver, his brother, bought of John
MRa. CHIEF JusTiE WAITE delivered the opinion of

