OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

FORT SCOTT v. HICKMAN.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Submitted October 17, 1884.-Decided November 3, 1884.
The statute of the State of Kansas (Gen. Stat. of Kansas, ch. 80, art. 8, see.24,
p. 634), providing that, in a case founded on contract, when "an acknowledgment of an existing liability, debt or claim" shall have been made, an
action may be brought within the period prescribed for the same, after such
acknowledgment, if such acknowledgment was in writing, signed by the
party to be charged thereby, requires, as interpreted by- the Supreme Court
of Kansas, that the acknowledgment, to be effective, be made, not to a
stranger, but to the creditor, or to some one acting for or representing him.
An acknowledgment cannot be regarded as an admission of indrbtednesswhere
the accompanying circumstances are such as to repel that inference or to
leave it in doubt whether the party intended to prolong the time of legal
limitation.
A committee of a city council, appointed to consider the city indebtedness,
made a report containing a statement of the assets and liabilities of the
city, and including among the latter a certain issue of bonds called M. bonds.
The report further proposed a plan of compromise to be made with the
holders of city bonds, the proposal being made in the form of a circular
which the committee recommended "to be sent to each person holding city
bonds, except M1. bonds, as to which we make no report." The circular, by
its terms, purported to be addressed "to each person holding bonds of the
city," and requested "each bondholder to express his views fully." The
city council adopted the report of the committee, and ordered the circular to
be sent to the holders of the city bonds ; and it was so sent to holders of
bonds other than M. bonds, but not to holders of the latter : Held, That
neither the note nor the circular was an acknowledgment of the M1.bonds
as a debt of the city, so as to take them out of the statute of limitations.
Where a Circuit Court of the United States, on the trial of an action at law before it, on the waiver of a jury, makes a special finding pf facts, on all the
issues raised by the pleadings, and gives an erroneous judgment thereon,
which this court reverses, it is proper for this court to dircctsuch judgment
to be entered by the Circuit Court as the special finding requires.

This was an action brought by the defendant in error, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kansas,
against the city of Fort Scott, in the State of Kansas, to recover the amount of principal and interest due on 27 bonds, for
$500 each, issued by that city, 12 of which became due on July
1, 1873, and 15 on July 1, 1874. The bonds were coupon

FORT SCOTT v. HICKMAN.
Statement of Facts.

bonds, with interest payable annually, on the 1st of July, at
the rate of 10 per cent. per annum, and were dated July 1,
1871. Each bond contained the heading, "Special Improvement
Bond of the City of Fort Scott, Kansas," and this -tatement:
"Issued in accordance with sections 16 and 17 of an act of the
Legislature of the State of Kansas, entitled 'An Act relating
to the -powers and government of cities of the second class, and
to repeal certain sections of chapter 19 of the. General Statutes
of 1868, approved March 8th, 1871,' and in pursuance of an ordinance of the city of Fort Scott, entitled ' An ordinance ordering the grading and macadamizing, &c., of certain streets
and parts of streets, approved May 19th, 1871.' Countersigned by the city treasurer, this twentieth day of September,
1871."
The suit was commenced July 1, 1880, and was tried by
the Circuit Court without a jury. As to 11 of the 12 bonds,
that court found that all the coupons on them had been paid
on and before July 1, 1873, but no payment of principal or
interest had been made upon any of them since that date, except as stated in its fourth finding. As to the 15 bonds, it
found that all the coupons on them were paid on and before
May 16, 1875, but no payment of principal or interest had
been made upon any of them since that date, except as stated
in its fourth finding. The remaining findings were as follows:
"4th. The court further finds that, as to the remaining bond
sued on herein, being bond number 78, it became due by its.
t~rms July 1st, 1873, and on and prior to that date all the interest coupons thereon had been paid; that, on November 8th,
1875, a payment was made on said bond number 78, of the sum
of $290, and the balaice of said bond remained due and unpaid
at the time of the commencement of this action; that said payment upon bond 78 was made by Donnell, Lawson & Co., fiscal
agents of the State of Kansas, upon the authority of certain
letters sent them by J. H. Randolph, city treasurer of the defendant, written by him in the usual routine of his official duties, but without. any special instruction or knowledge on the
part of the city council of said city; which said letters are as
follows, to wit:

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

'FORT ScoTT, I s., June 10, 1S75.

Mess. DOM'ELL, LAWSON & Co., Hew York.
DEAR Sins: Yours of the 2d inst. at hand. The coupons of
our special improvement bonds are all retired except bonds
Nos. 97 and 107 to 113; the last coupon on these Nos. (all past
due) is not yet in; will give you statement of am't and Nos. of
these bonds due and unpaid by next mail.- You may redeem
any one of these bonds whenever this fund in your hands is
sufficient to do so. Mly remittance of Mlay 26th, of $245, was
all to apply on coupons of bonds issued to the M., K & T. R.
IR. Co., and not $76 of it for special ia. fund, as you state you
have credited, in your letter of June 1st. The Ios. of the
bonds to which these coupons belong are 1 to 7, inclusive.
You will please make the transfer of the $70 to your Fort Scott
City coupon ace't. About what would our city funding bonds
bring in your market, bonds running 10 years, int. payable s. a.
at 10 per cent. p'r. annum.
Resp'y, yours,
J. H. RND-oLPn, City Treasurer.,
' FORT Scor, Ks., Aug. 6th,

Mess. DONNELL, LAwsoN & Co., -Yezv
GENTLEMEN:

1S75.

Y-ork.

I give you below the Nos. of our special im-

provement bonds now unpaid. Nos. 6 to 15, 17 to 22, 24, 30
to 39, 53 to 58, 60 to 80, 83 to 85, 9T, 98, 99, and 104 to 115,
in all 70 bonds of $500 each, all past due. I will be in New
York last of this month, and will call and explain to you the
situation in regard to these bonds, so you may understand the
reason why they are not paid, and that owners of the same
may govern themselves accordingly.
Very resp'y yours,
J. H. RAzROLPIH, City Tea rer.'
'FORT Scor, Ks., Aug. 11th, 1875.
Mess. DONNELL, LAWSON & Co., 2'ew Y ork.
GENTLEMEN: I enclose you herewith d'ft for $500 to apply
on interest due on Fort Scott City special improvement bonds.
If not convenient to apply on interest use to pay on bonds.
Resp'y yours,
J. H. RANDOLPHm'

On November 8, 1875, said fiscal agents paid bond 77 of

FORT SCOTT v. HICKMAN.
Statement of Facts.

this series, and said $290 on said bond 78, they being the only
bonds presented to that date, which payments exhausted the
funds in the hands of said fiscal agents. That the official accounts of the treasurer of said city contain the following entry
of credit to himself: 'August 11th, 1875. By Donnell, Lawson & Co., to pay interest on special improvement bonds,
$500;' which was the moneys remitted by said treasurer in the
letter of August 11th, 1875. Said payments were reported by
the city treasurer in his annual report and approved by the
city council.
5th. The court further finds, that, in July, 1878, the defendant, the city of Fort Scott, Kansas, by its city council, referred
the matter of its financial condition to the finance committee
of said council, which committee made a report in writing to
said council, on the 21st day of August, 1878, which report
was duly adopted and spread in full on the records of the
minutes of said council, and is as follows, to wit: ' Council Proceedings,A'u ust 21st, 1878.
Adjourned regular meeting.
Mayor Cohen in the chair.
The report of the finance committee on the matter of the
city indebtedness was read, and on motion adopted and ordered
placed on file. It is as follows:
To the Hon. -3fayorand Councilmen of the City of Fort Scott,
.Einsas:
We, your committee on city indebtedness, met with and consulted B. P. McDonald, D. P. Lowe, J. S. McCord, J. D. McC16verty, and also J. D. Hill, W. J. Bowden, W. A. Cormany,
members of the board of education of this city, whom the committee thought should be invited, and, after careful consideration, the joint committee unanimously agreed on the plan of
compromise set forth in the following circular letter, which we
recqmmeund be sent to each person holding city and school district bonds, except Macadam bonds, about which latter we make
no report:

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

CITY CLERK's OFFICE, ForT ScoTT, K._-NsAs,

S"ept. 3d, 1878.

DEAn Sin: The city council of Fort Scott address this to
each person holding bonds of the city of Fort Scott, Kansas,
with a view to bring about such an amicable adjustment of the
indebtedness of our city, if possible, as will be fair to-the bondholders in view of our circumstances, and at the same time be
such an one as the city can reasonably expect to be able to
meet.
Nearly all of our county, city, and school district indebtedness- was incurred at or about the year 1870, which was what
would be called our times flush, when money was plenty and
piroperty of ready sale at good figures. In 1870 the assessed
valuation of all kinds of property in the city was $1,445,730, as
shown by the tax roll, whil our assessed valuation for the year
1878 is only $S14,457, being a decline in valuation of $631,273,
or nearly one-half, a decline which cannot be accounted for
upon the basis of the general decline in values, but is doubtless
largely attributable to the excessive burden of our debt and
taxation. For the year just past our levy for all funds in the
city was 5.25 per cent., while this year, had an adequate levy
been made, it would have been nearly 7 per cent., and this, too,
without making any levy for sinking fund purposes to meet our
railroad bonded indebtedness. A careful examination of our
financial condition convinced us that to meet our indebtedness
in its present form, including our share of the county and
school district indebtedness, would, within two or three years,
require a levy of 10 per cent., and should the extreme decline
in our assessed valuation continue, the rate would exceed that
figure.
Our assessed valuation of all kinds of property in the city,
beginning with the year 1870, as shown by the tax roll, is as
follows:
1870 ...... .......... ............... $1,445,730
1871 ................................ 1,421,682
1872 ................................ 1,382,950
1873 ................................ 1,233,624
1874 ................................ 1,386,294

FORT SCOTT v. HICKMAN.
Statement of Facts.

1875 ................................ 1,071,834
18T6 ....................... .........
958,896
1877 ................................
904,368
1878 ................................
814,457

The increase in valuation in 1874 is explained by the fact that
nearly 250 acres of outlying additions were that year annexed
to the city. In the face of this great decline in value, our' indebtedness is rapidly maturing and is yet to be provided for.
The indebtedness of our county in railroad bonds is $300,000,

of which $150,000 are in litigation, and upon which there is
nearly $40,000 of an accumulation. of- unpaid interest, and all
may yet be adjudged a valid indebtedness. The assessed valuation of the county, including the city, this year, is $3,509,164;
the valuation of the city being about one-fourth of that, places
one-fourth of the county's burden upon the city. A statement
of our indebtedness, then, upon that basis, is as follows:
One-fourth co. debt ..........................
City railroad debt .............................
City school district bonds ....................
City bridge and funding bonds .................
City special improvement bonds and accrued interest ..................................
Other sundry indebtedness, about ..............

$85,000
100,000
37,500
41,500
45,000
6,000

Total ............................ $315,000
From this statement it will be seen, that the ratio of our
total indebtedness to our assessed valuation is about 40 per
cent.
Of our indebtedness, our school district, bridge, and funding
bonds bear ten per cent. interest, and for these the city has had
something in the shape of value received. In the matter of our
railroad 7 per cent. bonds, howe~er, both county and city, the
universal sentiment of our people is that we have not been
rightly treated. Each of the railroad companies promised that
their machine shops should be built and located in Fort Scott,
the Uf., K. & T. made a written contract to that effect, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.Statement of Facts.

city railroad debt of $100,000, and a county railroad debt of
$150,000, was created. The bonds were delivered, but the railroad companies have built their shops elsewhere. The A., K.
& T. Railroad, after receiving $100,000 of city and $150,000 of
county bonds, not only failed to comply with its contract, but
started a new town, built its machine shops there, and has since
lent every effort of its great power to foster a rival town within
fifty miles of this place.
Had the railroad companies fulfilled their pledges, Fort Scott
nor Bourbon' County would not now be asking leniency at the
hands of their creditors, our debts would not have been out of
proportion to our valuation,- our people would have been satisfied, our town and county prosperous.
We have incurred the debt, we, have failed to receive the benefits. Both of the railroad companies are bankrupt, and we are
without remedy or hope of redress.
A strong sentiment has always existed in favor of utterly re-.
pudiating our railroad debt, and now that the time approaches
for levying a sinking fund tax to pay that debt, this sentiment
increases. The present bondholders may be blameless as to
the bad faith of the railroad companies, but the result to us
is all the same, and our debt burden in no wise relieved by that
fact.
Our inability to pay such a debt seems apparent, and sooner
or later we know that we must fail. An increase in taxation
means a decrease in value, the refusal of the tax-payer to pay,
the driving out of capital already invested, and the turning
away of those who would otherwise settle here. Realizing
this, we have'this year omitted to make a levy for debt purposes, either principal or interest, and hope, by a statement of
the facts and of our circumstances, together with the safeguards
which we propose for the future, to effect a compromise, which,
while burdensome still to us, yet we know we can meet, and at
the same time give to the bondholder as high a marketable
value as he now has in the paper he now holds. We feel, however, that a difference ought to be made in the two classes of
bonds, and hence we propose to refund the city and school district debt upon the following terms: The city railroad and ma-

FORT SCOTT v. HICKIAN.
Statement of Facts.

chine shop 7 per cent. bonds to be refunded at 50 cts. on the
dollar, into a p0-year 5 per cent. bond, payable at any time
after 10 years, and thl school district funding and bridge 10
per cent. bonds to be refunded into a like bond, at the rate of
75 cts. on the dollar of the present amount of bonds outstanding. This would make the amount of our city and school district debt about 20 per cent. of our valuation, leaving out of
consideration our proportion of the county indebtedness, which,
if considered, would still leave our debt about 30 per cent. of
the valuation.
To effect this compromise we will need-new legislation, and,
in obtaining this, we propose and suggest the following provisions of law, as a protection to the holders of the compromise
bonds against a subsequent over-issue, which might compel a
new compromise, to wit:
A tax levy for interest to be made annually, sufficient to
pay the interest then due. At the end of ten years, one-twen.tieth, or 5 per cent., of the principal to be collected, and for
each year thereafter, until the whole refunded debt is paid or
liquidated.
Making any officer who shall prevent such levy, personally
liable'to any bondholder for the atmount then due, to be recovered in a civil action; making it a misdemeanor, punishable by
fine and imprisonment, for any officer to divert any portion of
the funds so collected to any other purpose than the payment
of these bonds and interest, the fine to be not less than the sum
so diverted.
Making a provision that the aggregate amount of our bonded
indebtedness, when the now proposed compromise is effected,
shall never be exceeded, until the entire amount of the compromise bonds shall be fully paid, ,and making any bonds that
might be issued in excess of that amount absolutely null and
void.
The bonds issued under such a law as this would be absolutely
protected against an over-issue in the future, and, with this
safeguard, would sell, in the aggregate, for more dollars and
cents than the entire amount of our present bonded indebtedness. .

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Faets.

In response to this, we ask each bondholder to express his
views fully, stating the amount and kind of bonds he holds;
and we sincerely hope that a compromise can be fully agreed
upon by the time our legislature meets in January next, so that
the proper legislation may be obtained, and the refunding
bonds issued in time for the making of a levy in 1879.
By order of the city council -of the city of Fort Scott, September 3d. 1878.
, City Clerk.'
At said meeting of August 21st, 1878, said city council also
adopted the following motion, as appears by said records:
'On motion, the city clerk was instructed to have one hundred copies printed of the circular letter, with the report of the
finance committee on our indebtedness, as the city attorney
may direct, to be sent to the holders of our city bonds.'
6th. That, under date of September 3d, 1878, the city clerk
of said city caused to be printed one hundred copies of said
circular letter, each being printed with a dotted head-line in
which to write the name of the person addressed, and sent a
copy of the same to each of the holders of the bonds of said
city except to the holders of said special improvement or
Macadam bonds, but did not send said circular to this plaintiff,
nor to any agent or representative of his, nor to any other
holder of said special improvement or Macadam bonds.
The reason why said city clerk did not send any of said
circulars to any of the holders of said special improvement or
Macadam bonds was because of the directions to that effect
made in the adopted report of the finance committee of said
city council, as set forth in finding No. 5 herein- Each of the
circulars so sent out by said eity clerk were signed by him in
writing, and had the name of the person to whom sent written
in the dotted head-line thereof. Some persons holding bonds
of said city, other than said special improvement or Macadam
bonds, did receive copies of said circular in whicL no name was
iritten in said dotted head-line, but were signed by said city clerk.
7th. That, in 1878, and after September 3d, one Thomas W.
Marshall, of Westchester, Pa., where plaintiff resided, who held
some of the bonds of said city other than said special improve-

FORT SCOTT v. HICKMAN.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

ment or Macadam bonds, received one of said circulars, which
he showed to plaintiff, which was signed by said city clerk in
writin-, over the words 'city clerk' at the end, and one H.
Burkhalter, at Westchester, Pa., who also held some of the
bonds of said city other than said special improvement or
Macadam bonds, received one of said circulars in 1878, which
he gave to plaintiff. Said circular was also received by other
persons residing at Westchester, Pa., who held bonds of said
city other than said special improvement or Macadam bonds.
8th. That the class of bonds sued on herein are described on
their face as ' special improvement bonds,' but were commonly
called 'Macadam bonds' by the holders thereof, and by the
officers of said city, and were issued by said city in payment
for macadamizing certain streets in said city."
On the foregoing findings of fact, the court held, as matter
of law, that the plaintiff was entitled to recover on the bonds
$26,385.23, and to have judgment accordingly, and judgment
was entered for that amount, to bear interest at the rat6 of 10
per cent. per annum. The defendant brought this writ of
error.
-Mr.J D.2eCleverty for plaintiff in error.
Jir,. S F. B own and _3Mr. Wayne .3f'ceagA for defendant in
error.-I. The acknowledgment was sufficient. Elder v. Dyer,
26 Kan. 604, overruling tanson v. Towle, 19 Kan. 273, relied
upon by counsel for plaintiff. If the bonds referred to in the circular were other than the bonds sued upon, the burden of proof
was on plaintiff in error to show it. Wiitney v. Bigelow, 4
Pick. 507. See also Argus Cornpany v. .iayor of Albany, 55
N. Y. 495, Folger, J.-II. The acknowledgment was so made
as to revive the cause of action. The circular, though mailed
to certain individuals, was addressed to all bondholders. Under
these circumstances the ownership of the bond is the criterion
by which to ascertain _the person to whom the notice applies.
See the New York case above cited.-III. The question of the
sufficiency of an acknowledgment is one of general jurisprudence. In determining it Federal courts are independent

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

of the constructions by State courts.

DeIrnow v. Insurance Co.,

14 Wall. 665; Swivt v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1; Mat
18 How. 520; Fenice v. .furdock, 92 U. S. 494.

v. Tarpley,

MR. JUSTICE BLArCHFOrD delivered the opinion of the court.
He stated the facts in the foregoing language and continued:
The declaration of the plaintiff avers the adoption by the
city council of the motion of August 21, 1878, and sets forth
a copy thereof and of the circular letter, and alleges that one
of the circulars was sent to the plaintiff, and one to each of the
other holders of the defendant's bonds; that thus the defendant fully acknowledged and recognized the plaintiff's bonds as
valid and subsisting obligations of the defendant; and that, on
the 8th of November, 1875, the defendant recognized the existence and validity of the plaintiff's bonds by paying to him
that day $290 on account thereof. The answer avers that the
$290 was paid and credited wholly on bond No. 78; that there
is due on-that bond $434, which sum the defendant offers to
pay and brings into court; that more than five years elapsed
after the maturity of the other bonds before this suit was
brought, and it is barred by the statutes of limitation of
Kansas; that the defendant never acknowledged or recognized
the plaintiff's bonds as subsisting obligations, as alleged in the
declaration ; and that the circular was never sent to the plaintiff by the city, or by its clerk, or by any of its officers, and the
plaintiff never received it from the city, or from any party on
behalf of the city. To this answer there is a reply containing
a general denial.
The statute of Kansas in force when this suit was commenced
(Gen. Stat. of Kansas, ch. 80, art. 3, sec. 18, sub. 1, p. 633) provided, that an action on any agreement, contract or promise in
writing could only be brought within five years after the cause
of action accrued, and not afterwards. Consequently, this suit
was barred as to all the bonds, unless saved under tL.a following provisions of the statute.
"In any case founded on contract, when any part of the principal or interest shall have been paid, or an acknowledgment of an
existing liability, debtor claim, or any promise to pay the same,

FORT SCOTT v. HICKMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

shall have been made, an action may be brought in such case
within the period prescribed for the same, after such payment,
acknowledgment, or promise; but such acknowledgment or
promise must be in writing, signed bv the party to be charged
thereby." Id. sec. 24, p. 634, 635.
The construction of section 24 by the Supreme Court of
Kansas, in Elder v. Dyei', 26 Kansas, 604, is that a case may be
taken out of the operation of section 18, in three ways: (1.)
By the payment of part of the principal or interest; (2.) By al
acknowledgment in writing of an existing liability, debt or
claim, signed by the party to be charged; (3.) By a promise of
payment in writing, signed by the party to be charged; that it
is not necessary all these things should co-exist, but only
requisite that one of them should exist; and that it is not necessary the acknowledgment should amount to a new promise.
But it is also held by the same court, in decisions made prior to
August, 1878, that the acknowledgment, to be effective, must
be made, not to a stranger, but to a creditor, or to some one
acting for or representing him. Sibert v. Filder,16 Kansas,
176; Schmucker v. Sibert, 18 Kansas, 104; Ckawson v. .eCunvcs Adm ,20 Kansas, 337.
In the present case, the Circuit Court finds that the committee, in its report, recommended that the circular letter
should "be sent to each person holding city and school district
bonds, except Macadam bonds;" that the report stated that
the committee made no report about M acadam bonds; that, on
the report, the city council adopted a motion instructing the
city clerk to have 100 copies printed of the circular letter, with
the report, to be sent to .the holders of the city bonds; and
that the clerk caused to be printed 100 copies of the circular
letter, and sent a copy of the same to each of the holders of the
bonds of the city, except to the holders of the special improvement or Macadam bonds, but did not send the circular to the
plaintiff, or to any agent or representative of his, or to any
other holder of the special improvement or Macadam bonds.
It is not found that any copy of the circular was received from
the city, or from any one acting for it, by any holder of any
Macadam bond or his agent or representative. The recomVOL cxi-11

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court,

mendation of the committee, and its statement that it made no
report about the Macadam bonds, and the fact that the circular
letter offers no compromise as to those bonds, was a sufficient
reason for not communicating with the holders of those bonds.
In this connection, it may be observed, that by the report of
States v. Poart Scott, 99 U. S, 152, it apthe case of Uikdt
pears that in that case, the city of Fort Scott, at October Term,
1878, contested in this court, its obligation to impose a tax on
,all the taxable property of the city to pay like bonds of the
same issue, claiming that it was bound to levy a tax only on
pioperty benefited, and that this court reversed the decision
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Kansas, which had decided in favor of the city, and against a
holder of Macadam bonds, as to that question. That decision
by this court was announcetd'after the report of the committee
was made, and after the date of the circular letter.
It is plain that the city made no acknowledgment to the
plaintiff. It held no communication with him. It sent no
.copy of the circ lar letter t6 him. It intentionally refrained
from doing so. It had a cogent reason for refraining, in the
decision which had been so made in its favor. He received no
circular letter from the city. Nor did the exhibition to him of
the circular letter by persons who held other bonds than Macadam bonds amount to an acknowledgment by the city to him.
The circular letter states that the city council addresses it to
each person holding bonds of the city, but it also states that
this is done with a view to a compromise, and then it proposes
compromises as to other bonds, not including the Macadam
bonds. So, also, the circular letter, at its close, asks that each
,bondholder will express his views fully, stating the amount
and kinds of bonds he holds. But this applies, necessarily, only
to those who hold bonds which are to be compromised and refunded. There is nothing in the circular letter which makes,
or which evinces any intention of making, an acknowledgment
to holders of Macadam bonds. In view of all this, the placing
in the list, under the heading "A statement of our indebtedness," of the item, "City special improvement bonds and
accrued interest, 45,000," cannot be held. to amount to an ac

FORT SCOTT v. ffICKMAff.
Opinion of the Court.

knowledgment to the plaintiff of any then existing liability to
him on the Macadam bonds he held. It .was merely a statement that the city had issued that amount of special improvement or Macadam bonds, which it classed generally as " indebtedness," which others might claim was valid indebtedness'
against it, but which it carefully omitted from any proposal of
compromise, and said no more about in the circular.
Although an acknowledgment need not, under the Kansas
statute, amount to a new promise, yet the rule is applicable,
that an acknowiedgment cannot be regarded as an admission
of indebtedness, where the accompanying circumstances are
such as to repel that inference, or to leave it in doubt whether
the party intended to prolong the time of legal limitation.
.Roscoe v. Hale, 7 Gray, 274.
1or is there any ground for holding that what was entered
upon the records of the city council is to be regarded as having
been addressed to all the holders of bonds, including the plaintiff, and as having been in that way a sufficient acknowledgment to him, without the sending to him of a copy of the
circular letter. For, that record states distinctly, that no
report is made about Macadam bonds, and that the circular
letter is not to be sent to their holders; and the observations
before made as to the contents of the circular letter, and as to
the circumstances attending what is said in it about the indebtedness on the Macadam bonds, apply with even more force
to this branch of the case. The record, taken as a whole, did
not amount to an acknowledgament to the plaintiff, as a holder
of Macadam bonds. It is not found that the plaintiff ever
knew of the record till after he brought this suit.
The settled doctrine in Kansas, and the weight of authority
elsewhere, is, that statutes of limitation are statutes of repose,
and not merely statutes of presumption of payment. Therefore, to deprive a debtor of the benefit of such a statute,
by an acknowledgment of indebtedness, there must be an
acknowledgment to the creditor as to the particular claim,
and it must be shown to have been intentional. Roscoe v.
Hale,, before cited. "An acknowledgment of an existing
liability, debt or claim," within the meaning of the Kansas

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

statute, implies a meeting of minds, the right of the creditor to
take what is written as an acknowledgment to him, of the existence of the debt, as well as the intention of the debtor, as
deduced from the contents of the writing and all the facts
accompanying it, to make such ackn6wledgment. In Fetzell
v. Bussard, 11 Wheat. 309, 315, Ch. J. -Marshall said: "An
acknowledgment which will revive the original cause of action
must be unqualified and unconditional. It must show positively
that the debt is due in whole or in part." To the same effect
are Bell v. foTorfsom, 1 Pet. 351, 362, and Xoore v. Bank of
Columbia, 6 Pet. 86, 92. In Barlow v. Barner, 1 Dillon, 418,
'this statute of K-ausas was under consideration by Mr. Justice
Miller and Judge Dillon, and the court said: "Courts, by their
decisions as to the effect of loose and unsatisfactory oral admissions and new promises, had almost frittered away the statute
of limitations, and, to remedy this, statutes similar to the one
in force in this State have been quite generally enacted. The
statute of Kansas reqiuires the ackno~vledgment to be in writing
and signed by the party, and the acknowledgment must be of
an existing liability with respect to the contract upon which a
recovery is sought."
The statement of thp city treasurer to the agents of the city
in New York, in his letter of August 6, 1875, that special
improvement bonds of certain numbers, which included those
now sued on, were then unpaid, can avail nothing, for it was
not a letter to the plaintiff or to his agent. The same remark
is true as to the letter of August 11, 1875,-and it remits $500
to apply on Macadam bonds generally.
As to the payment of the $290, it was paid on bond No. 78
only, as is found, no others of the bonds sued on having been
presented to that date. It was not a payment on any other
bond or on the bonds as a whole.
It follows, from these considerations, that the conclusion of
law made by the Circuit Court on the facts found was erroneous. It ought to have rendered judgment for the defendant,
except as to bond No. 78. Its special finding of fa*cts is, under
ยง 649 of the Revised Statutes, equivalent to the special verdict
of a jury, yVris v. Jackson, 9 Wall. 125; C&pelin v. Insurance

BUENA VISTA COUNTY v. I. F. & S. C. RR. CO.

165

. Syllabus.

Co., 9 WalL 461, 467; Insurance Co. v. Folsom, 18 Wall. 237,
249; .Retzer v. Wood, 109 U. S. 185; and, as such special finding
covers all the issues raised by the pleadings, this court has the
power, under ยง 701 of the Revised Statutes, to direct such
judgment to be entered as the special finding requires. In
cases like the present one, the proper practice is to direct a
judgment for the defendant, instead of awarding a new trial.
lYational Bank v. In"urance Co., 95 13. S. 673, 679; Farfield
v. County qf Gallatin, 100 U. S. 47; TWright v. Blakeslee, 101
U. S. 174; People's Bank v. 3ational Bank, 101 U. S. 181;
Warnock v. Davis, 104 U. S. 775; Zincoln v. French, 105 U.
S. 614; Ottowa v. Carey, 108 U. S. 110; _0irkbridev. Lafayette Co., 108 U. S. 208; ]etzer v. Wood, 109 U. S. 185; Canada
Southern, RailroadCo. v. Gebhard,109 U. S. 527; East St. Louis
v. Zebley, 110 U. S. 321. The trial being without error, if the
finding is sufficient, the same judgment is to be given as would
be given on a special verdict. Where the special finding embraces only a part of the issues, as in _Ex' ate .French, 91 U.
S. 423, a different rule prevails. Accordingly,
The Judgmaent of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case
k remanded to that court, with direction to enter a judgment for the plaintif,on, bondio.78,for $500, withproper
interest thereon, less a credit on. said bond, of $290, of the
date of .Yovember 8, 1875; and, as to the other bonds sued
on, to enter ajudgmentfor the defendant, with costs.

BUENA VISTA COUNTY v. IOWA FALLS & SIOUX
CITY RAILROAD COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE'S UPRE_ E

COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.

Argued October 31, 188.-Decide. November 10, 1884.

The right of review of the official acts of the Commissioner of the Land Office
conferred upon the Secretary of the Interior by general laws extends to
acts of the Commissioner under the act of March 5, 1872, 17 Stat. 37, directing him to receive and examine selections of swamp lands in Iowa, and allow
or disallow the same.

