OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

WOODWORTH v. BLAIR & Others.
,&PEAT FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FP" qaE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted October 17, I884.-Decided October 27,1884.

In a suit in equity to foreclose a mortgage from a railroad corporation of its
whole railroad, franchise, lands and property, which have since been put in
the possession of a receiver, an intervening prior mortgagee of part of the
,lands is not entitled to have the amount of his mortgage paid out of the
funds in the hands of the receiver, or out of the proceeds of a sale made pursuant to the decree of foreclosure, subject to his mortgage.

This was an appeal, by a prior mortgagee of a tract of land
occupied by the Chicago and Pacific Railroad Company, from
decrees in a suit in equity to foreclose two mortgages of its
whole railroad. The material facts appearing by the record
were as follows:
On October 1st, 1872, and on November 6th, 1874, the corporation made to a trustee, to secure the payment of its bonds, two
mortgages of all its railroad, right of way, franchise, road bed,
stations.and station houses, depot grounds, and other property,
already or thereafter owned, possessed or acquired through or
by reason of he construction of its railroad. After breach of
the conditions of those mortgagis, the bondholders filed bills
in. equity'for the appointment of a receiver and for the foreclosure of the mortgages,. which were by order of court consolidated as one suit.
Pending that suit, and after a receiver had been appointed
and had taken possession, the appellant fildd an intervening pe.tition. alleging thatfon February 1st, 1872, at the request of the
corporation and for its benefit, she sold and conveyed to Thomas
S. Dobbins, its president, a tract of land in Chicago, in considgration of a certain sum in money, and of ten promissory
notes made by Dobbins, payable in ten successive years,. and
secured by a mortgage from him of the land, which was duly
recorded on September 5th, 1872; that the corporation entered
upon the land and laid tracks upon it, and continued to use and
occupy it until the appointment of the receiver, and the receiver

WOODWORTH v. BLAIR.
Argument for Appellant.

since continued to use it for the benefit of the railroad, and
neglected to pay the notes and interest; and praying that the
amount thereof might be paid out of any funds in the hands of
the receiver, or out of the proceeds of sale under any decree to
be rendered in the case. This petition was referred to a master,
-who reported that the amount due to the appellant was
$59,910.10.
The court declined to order the payment of the appellant's
claim, and dismissed her petition, without prejudice; and in
the principal suit entered a decree for the foreclosure by sale of
the whole railroad, including the road bed, stations and station
houses, depot grounds and other property, without prejudice to
her mortgage.
From that decree the appellant prayed an appeal to this court,
and offered a bond in order to make the appeal a supersedeas.
The court allowed the appeal and approved the bond, and
ordered that the appeal should not operate as a supersedeas or
delay of the sale, but only delay the distribution of so much of
the proceeds of the sale as was necessary to fully secure the
amount due on her mortgage.
The master afterwards reported that a sale had been made,
in accordance with the decree of foreclosure, for the sum of
$916,100; and the court overruled exceptions taken by the appellant to the maste~s report, and confrned the sale. The corporation afterwards paid into court the amount of the bid,
interest and commissions, as required by the decree and by the
statute of TIlinois; and the court found that the corporation
had done what was needful to effect a redemption, and reserved
for further consideration the time and terms on which a delvery of the property to the corporation should be directed.
3fe. fenry Crawfordfor appellant.-It is undoubtedly true
that when the debt secured by a senior lien is not due, and that
creditor is not before the court, a junior encumbrancer may foreclose the equity of redemption as against his own lien, and leave
the holder of the first encumbrance to enforce his rights. But
no case can be cited where a court of equity authorized a junior,
mortgagee to restrict a foreclosure proceeding to the enforce-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appellant.

ment of his olvn lien, when a receiver had taken possession of
the whole property, and a senior mortgagee with a debt matured
,was party to the suit. A court of equity having the parties
before it and the custody and possession of the property, should
adjudicate and determine the amount and order of preference
of all liens, irrespective of their relation of priority to the encumbrance of the original complainants, leaving the question
of payment to be determined by the amount of the sale proceeds. Considering the peculiar nature of railway property,
the proper method to enforce the lien would be by sale of the
whole line, considered as one property, incapable of severance.
The land purchased of the appellants lost its separate charac
ter and became a necessary portion of the whole line, incapable
of being dislocated or sold. Consequently the purchase lien is
enforceable only against the whole railway as a unit. X4ller
v..Dows, 94 U. S. 444, 449; 1eilson, v. Iow_a EasternRailway
Company, 44 Iowa, 71; Brooks v. Railway Company, 101 U.
S. 443; .feyer v. lHornby, 101 U. S. 728; -Daytan, Xenia &
Belpre Railroad Company v. Lewton, 20 Ohio St. 401. The
appellant's superior equity is clear as against the bondholders
under the general mortgage. It is prior in time and stronger
in right. The general mortgage attaches itself only to such
interest in the property as the mortgagor acquires, and if that
property is already subject tc mortgages and liens it does not
displace them. United States v. _NVew Orleans Railroad, 12
Wall. 362; KYetchum, v. St. Louis, 101 U. S. 306. The bondholders having ratified the original transaction with appellant,
cannot now be heard to dispute either the amount or priority
of the debt or its lien on the whole trust property. Bigelow on
Estoppel, 511; _Pfeier v. Sheboygan & Fond Du Zac Railroad
Company, 18 Wis; 155; Farmers' Loan & Trust Company v.
Fisher, 11 Wis. 114, 117 ; Dayton, Xenia & Be pre Railroad
Comrany v. Lewton, 20 Ohio St. 401; Western Pennsylvania,
Railroad Company v. Johnston, 59 Penn. St. 290; liltenberger v. Logansport Railroad Company, 106 U. S. 286, 308.
The court holds by its receiver for the benefit of whomsoever
in the end it shall be found to concern, .Fosdick v. Schall, 99
.U. S. 235, 251; and has cognizance in a suit for foreclosure of

WOODWORTH v. BLAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

a railway, of all questions relating to priority of lien on the
property in litigation. Uitited States v. NYew Orleans Bailroad, 12 Wall. 362. See also Codwise v. Gelston, 10 Johns.
507, 521; Miszwall v. Sampson, 14 How. 52.
.31. .E. Walker for appellees.
Mnr.

JusTion GPAY delivered the opinion of the court. He

recited the facts'in the foregoing language, and continued:
Assuming, as the appellant contends, that her conveyance to
Dobbins, and the mortgage back by him, should be considered
in equity as if made to and by the railroad corporation, no
ground is shown for reversing the decree below.
The appellant's mortgage covered only the tract of land
specifically described therein, and did not affect the title of the
corporation in other lands and in so -nuch of its road as was
not laid over the land mortgaged to her. The case differs in
this respect from the cases cited by her counsel, in which a
mechanic's lien given by statute for work done on part of a
railroad was held to extend to the whole road. Brooks v.
Railway Comjzany, 101 U. S. 443; Xfeyer v. Hor'nby, 101 U.
S. 728.
As a general rule, a prior mortgagee is not a necessary party
to a bill to foreclose a junior mortgage, where the decree sought
is only for a foreclosure of the equity of redemption from the
prior mortgage, and not of the entire property or estate. Je-rome v. "fcCarter, 94 U. S.734. In a suit to foreclose a mortgage of the whole railroad, franchise and property of a railroad
corporation, it would often produce great delay and embarrassment to undertake to determine the validity and extent of all
prior liens and encumbrances on specific parts of the corporate
property before entering a final decree.
The course pursued by the Circuit Court in the present case,
dismissing the intervening petition of the appellant, without
prejudice, and ordering a foreclosure by sale, subject to her
mortgage, of the entire railroad and other p'roperty included
in the railroad, mortgages, to foreclose which the principal suit

OOTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

had been brought, judiciously and effectively secured the rights
of all parties.
The price obtained by the sale oL the railroad and other
property, subject to her mortgage, must have been less than if
they had been sold free of that mortgage; and to order the
amount of that mortgage to be paid out of the proceeds of the
sale would _pro tano benefit the purchaser if the sale was carried out, or the railroad corporation in case of redemption, to
the corresponding detriment of the holders of bonds secured
by the railroad mortgages.
The railroad corporation, after having redeemed its property
from the railroad mortgages, will h-old it subject to any valid
lien of the appellant, just as it did before the proceedings for
foreclosure .were instituted.
.Decree offirrnd.

NEW ORLEANS, MOBILE & TEXAS RAILWAY CO. '.
THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI, ex rel. The District Attorney.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE INITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRIOT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Argued October 15, 184.-Decided October 27, 1M4.

The act of February -Tth, 1867, of the Legislature of Mississippi (Laws of 1867,
882), and the act of August 19th, 1868, of the Legislature of Louisiana (Acts
of La. 1869, No. 28, p. 32), and the act of Congress of March 2d, 186&(15
Stat. ,88), relating to the construction and maintaining of bridges over
navigable waters on the route of a railroad between Mobile and New Orleans,
when taken together so far as the last two may be considered in this case,
do not release the plaintiff in error from the obligation imposed upon it by
the said act of the Legislature of Mississippi to maintain a drawbridge
with a space of sixty feet for the passage of vessels, across the channel of
Pearl River, in its main channel, constituting the dividing line between
Mississippi and Louisiana.

This was a petition for mandamus by the Attorney-General
of the State of Mississippi on behalf of the State, brought in
the courts of that State, and removed to the Circuit Court of

