OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opin on of the Court.

Ames, tending to show that the said charges," on which the
money sued for was paid to him by the administratrix, "were
unconscionable." This evidence was excluded by the court, and
its exclusion is now assigned for error. But it is clear that, if
the plaintiff had no title to the money received by Arrick, the
evidence offered was immaterial and was properly excluded.
We find no error in the record.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the .District of
Columbia is therefore ajfirmed.

UNITED STATES v. FLANDERS & Others.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERNl DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued October 20, I84.-Decided November 3, 1M.

A person appointed and commissioned as a collector of internal revenue, under
the act of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 482, is entitled to the compensation, provided for by § 84 of that act, of a percentage commission to be computed
on the moneys accounted for and paid over by him, from the time he enters on the duties of his office and his services are accepted, and not merely
from the time he takes the oath of office and files his official bond.
A collector of internal revenue appointed under that act is entitled, in a suit
against him on such bond, brought to recover public money collected by
him and not paid over, to have allowed, as a set-off, money paid by him for
publishing advertisements required to be made by § 19 of that act, if the
amount is found to be reasonable and proper, although the item was not
formally allowed or certified by the accounting officers in the Treasury De-

partment or otherwise.

Action against principal and sureties on an internal revenue
bond. The facts appear fully in the opinion of the court.
21r. Assistant Attorney-General )Jfauryfor plaintiff in error.
ibr. J Q. A. Fellows submitted for defendants in error on
hjs brief.

M-R. JUSTICE BLATCHFOIWD delivered the opinion of the court.

UNITED STATES v. FLANDERS.
Opinion of the Court.

This is a suit brought by the United States, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana,
against George S. Denison and the sureties on his bond, as collector of internal revenue for the first collection district of
Louisiana, to recover $4,346.84, as public money which he collected and did not pay over. Three of the sureties defended
the suit, and, gn a trial before a jury, there was a verdict in
their favor, and a judgment accordingly. The United States
have sued out a writ of error.
The answer sets up that Denison, or his estate, is entitld to
further credits than those allowed to him, which claims for
credits he presented to the accounting officers of the Treasury,
but they disallowed them, to the amount of $4,199.74, on ac-.
count of his compensation as collector, and to the amount of
$777, on account of money paid by him for necessary and legal
advertising.
The bill of exceptions sets forth, that there was evidence'
tending to show that Denison was appointed collector by a
commission dated March 4, 1863; that he took the oath of
office, and executed his bond as such collector, on the 15th of
May, 1863, and remained in office until the 11th of December,
1863; that his accounts were adjusted by the accounting officers of the Treasury at various dates subsequent to June 3,
1864, but in these adjustments he had not concurred, and the
proper notice had been given to lay the foundation for the introduction of evidence as to the additional credits claimed; that
he entered upon the discharge of his official duty as collector
on the 11th of March, 1863, and continued so to act until December 11th, 1863; and that his accounts were regularly transmitted monthly, during his whole term of office, and at the end
thereof, and all prior to June 30, 1864. The counsel for the
plaintiffs asked the court to instruct the jury that Denison was
not ntitled to any compensation as collector prior to May 15,
1863, the date on which he gave the bond and took the oath
of office. The court refused to give that instruction, but, instead thereof, gave the following: that the government could
have properly refused to allow Denison, to assume the office of
collector' until he had taken the oath of office and given the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

requisite bond; that for certain purposes he could not be an
pfficer until he had taken the oath and given the bond; but, if
the jury found, that, after he had received his commission, the
government permitted him to discharge the duties of the office,
and accepted of his services therein, prior to the time of his
taking the oath and giving the bond, he was entitled to compensation from the time when he commenced to discharge his
official duties and his services "in the office were accepted by
the government; and, that, it being admitted that he had col16cted the sum of $517,191.28, he was entitled to compensation
at the rate of $833,331 per month during the time he held the
office of collector, counting from the time when, after receiving
his commission, he was permitted by the government to discharge the duties of the office and his services were accepted
therein, although, during a portion of such time, he had not
taken his official oath, nor given his official bond. To this refusal and instruction there was an exception by the plaintiffs.
It is contended that there was error in the instruction that
the collector was entitled to compensation for the time before
he took the oath and gave the bond. His commission was
dated March 4, 1863, and the government permitted him to
discharge the duties of the office, and accepted of his services,
from March 11, 1863. At that time the act of July 2, 1862,
12 Stat. 502, was in force, which provided that every person
appointed to any office of profit under the government, in any
civil department of the public service, except the President,
should, "before entering upon the duties of such office, and before being entitled to any of the salary or other emoluments
thereof, take and subscribe" an oath or affirmation, the form
of which is given. Section 4 of the act of July 1, 1862, 12
Stat. 433, provided that, before any collector of internal revenue
should "enter upon the duties of his office," he slould give a
specified bond, with sureties.
The compensation to which Denison was entitled was at the
rate of $10,000 a year, under section 34 of the act of July 1,
1862, 12 Stat. 445. That section allows the compensation to
the collector "appointed," in full compensation for his services
and those of his deputies. The compensation is by a specified

UNITED STATESv. FLANDERS.
Opinion of the Court.

percentage commission, to be computed on the moneys "paid
over and accounted for under the instructions of the Treasury
Department," the commissions not to exceed $10,000 a year,
in any case. The compensation is given by the statute to the
collector, when appointed, and is based wholly on the amount
of moneys paid over and accounted for. If he is appointed,
and acts, and collects the moneys, and pays them over and
accounts for them, and the government accepts his services
and receives the moneys, his title to the compensation neces-sarily accrues, unless there is a restriction growing out of the
fact that another statute says that he must take the oath "before being entitled to any of the salary or other emoluments"
of the office. But, we are of opinion- that the statute is satisfied by holding that his title to receive, or'retain, or hold, or
appropriate, the commissions as compensation, does not arise
until he takes and subscribes the oath or affirmation, but that,when he does'so, his compensation is to be computed on moneys
collected by him, from the time when, under-his appointment,
he began to perform services as collector, which the government
accepted, provided he has paid over and accounted for such
moneys. This was, in substance, the charge given, and it was
correct.
The counsel for the plaintiffs requested the court to instruct
the jury, that, during the time Denison was collector, the lawdid not provide for the reimbursement to collectors of internal
revenue of any amount expended by them for advertisements;
and that, there being no proof that the Secretary of the Treasury had ever made any allowance to Denison for amounts expended by him for advertisements, nothing could be allowedto the defendants for advertising. The court refused to give
that instruction, but gave the following: that "if, in accordance with the terms of the statute, defendant Denison was required, as collector of internal revenue, to make, and did make,
in certain newspapers, certain advertisements, for which he
was required to pay, and did pay, and if, also, the jury found
that the amounts so paid were reasonable and proper amounts,
he was entitled to a credit for the aihounts so paid by him, although the Secretary of the Treasury had made no allowance

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

to him therefor."

To this refusal and instruction the plaintiffs

excepted.
The 19th section of the act of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 439,
required the collector to give notices, by advertisement, that
duties were due and payable, and to advertise notices of the
sale of articles distrained. The item of $777 for bills for advertising was disallowed by the accounting officers, because
section 34 of the act of July 1, 1862, before cited, after providing for compensation, went on to say that there should also
be allowed to the collector his necessary and reasonable expenses for stationery and blank books used in the performance
of his official duties, to be paid out of the treasury, after being
duly examined and certified by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, and did not include expenses for advertising, and
they were not included until provided for, by amendment, by
the act of -March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 469, which took effect
April 1, 1865. But we are of opinion, that, as the statute
required the advertisements to be made, the collector was entitled to a credit for the reasonable and proper amounts paid
therefor, although such amounts were not formally allowed or
certified. It was submitted to the jury to say whether the collector made and paid for the advertisements, aid whether they
were such as fell within those named in the statute, and
whether the amounts paid for them were reasonable and
proper. The instruction given is not open to the criticism
made, that it submitted to the jury a question of law. It was
not left to the jury to determine whether the advertising for
which credit was claimed was such as the collector was required to make, in the sense that it was left to the jury to
determine what advertisements the law required to be made.
But it must be inferred, that the court explained the statute as
to the advertisements, and the fair meaning of the instruction
is, that it was left to the jury to say whether, in view of the
advertisements which the statute, as explained by the court,
required, those made by the collector were such advertisements,
and were made, and were paid for, and were reasonable and
proper in amount.
In Andrews v. United States, 2 Story, 202, which was a suit

UNITED STATES v. FLANDERS.
Opinion of the Court.

on the bond of a collector of customs, Mr. Justice Story held,
that expenditures, by a collector of customs, for office rent.
fuel, clerk hire, and stationery were properly to be deemed
incidents to the office, and ought, therefore, to be allowed as
proper charges against the United States, and as a set-off in
the suit. In 'that case, the statute required the collector to
keep and transmit accounts of those particular expenditures.
The Treasury Department disallowed them, but the court held,
that the statute contemplated their allowance, and that ,the
collector had a right--to be reimbursed their amount, even
though he did not keep or transmit the accounts of them.
The view taken was, that, if a claim, though not strictly of a
legal nature, was ex xquo et lono due to the defendant, for
moneys expended on account of, and for the benefit of, the
United States, he was entitled to an allowance and compensation therefor, upon the footing of a quantum meruit, under § 3
of the act of March 3, 1797, 1 Stat. 514. That statute is now
embodied in § 957 of the Revised Statutes, which provides that,
in all suits against a person accountable for public moneys, he
may show that he is equitably entitled to credits which have
been rejected. In United States v. Tilki~, 6 Wheat., 135,
144, this court said, of § 3 of the act of 1797, that it supposed
that "not merely legal but equitable credits ought to be allowed to debtors of the United States, by the proper officers
of the Treasury;" that all such credits could be allowed at
the trial of the suit; and that a judgment was required for
such sum only as the defendant, in equity and justice, should
be proved to' owe to the United States. This view was affirmed in (hatiot v. United States, 15 Pet. 336, 370, and in'
Wat]'in&v. United8tates, 9 Wall. 759, 765.
In the present case, the statute required the advertisements
to be made, and there is nothing in it which implies that they
are to be paid for out of the compensation to be allowed, or
that they are not to be reimbursed because they are not named
with stationery and blank books, or because "advertising"
was first inserted in the act of 1865. In section 115 of the
same act of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 488, it was provided, that
the pay of collectors should be paid out of the accruing inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

nal duties or taxes, before they wer4 paid into the Treasury,
and $500,000 was appropriated "for the purpose of paying"
various specified expenses, including "advertising and any
other expenses of carrying this act into effect." This advertising was an expense of carrying the act into effect, and was
aside from the pay of the collector, and was to be paid out of
the Treasury, as an expense. The allowance of it by the accounting officers or otherwise was not a prerequisite to the
right of Denison to have it credited to him in this suit. Colmvbell v. United States, 107 U. S., 407.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is sffrmed.

ELK v. WIL=KIS.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
DISTRICT OF NIEBASKA.
Argued April 28, 1884.-Decided November 3, 1884.

An Indian, born a member of one of the Indian tribes within the United States,
which still exists and is recognized as a tribe by the government of the
United States, who has voluntarily separated himself from his tribe, and
taken up his residence among the white citizens of a State, but who has not
been naturalized, or taxed, or recognized as a citizen, either by the United
States or by the State, is not a citizen of the United States, within the
meaning of the first section of the Fourteenth Article of Amendmentof the
Constitution.
A petition alleging that the plaintiff is an Indian, and was born within the
United States, and has severed his tribal relation to the Indian tribes, and
fully and completely surrendered himself-to the jurisdiction of the United
States, and still so continues subject to the jurisdiction of the United States,
and is a bonafide resident of the State of Nebraska and city of Omaha, does
not show that he is a citizen of the United States under the Fourteenth Article of Amendment of the Constitution.

This is an action brought by an Indian, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Nebraska, against the
registrar of one of the wards of the city of Omaha, for refusing
to register him as a qualified voter therein. The petition was
as follows;

