MORAN v. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of Facts.

can the question be presented in such a proceeding as the
present.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia is consequently
.AJirined.

MORAN, Ex'r of COOPER v. N\EW ORLEANS.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPRE.1IE COURT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted April 15, 184.-Decided November 3, 1884.

A mmicipal ordinance of the city of New Orleans, to establish the rate
of license for professions, callhgs and other business, which assesses and
directs to be collected from persons owning and running towboats to
and from the Gulf of MIexico and the city of New Orleans, is a regulation of commerce among the States, and is an infringement of the pro-

visions of Article I., section 8, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of the
United States.

This was an action to recover a license tax.
The city of New Orleans was authorized by a law of the
State (Acts Extra Session, 1870, p. 37, ยง 12), for the purposes
of the act, "to levy, impose and collect a license upon all persons pursuing any trade, profession or calliug, and to provide
for its collection; and said license shall not be construed to be
a tax on property."
The same act, ยง 21, provides that "all licenses imposed by
the city, not paid on the 31st day of July, shall be seizable,
after thirty days' publication in the official journal," in certain
courts of record in the city; "and upon the prayer of the city,
through its proper representatives, any court of competent
jurisdiction shall enjoin the said person or persons so liable to
pay a license tax, and who shall refuse or neglect to pay the
same, from continuing to carry on such business or profession
until he shall have paid the same and all costs and charges for
the recovery and enforcement of the claim therefor."
The council of the city of New Orleans passed anordinance
"to establish the rate of licenses for professions, calling and

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

other bhsiness for the year 1880," which assessed and directed
to be collected the sums specially set forth, among others".Sec. 39. Every member of a firm or company, every
agency, person, or corporation, owning and running towboats
to and from the Gulf of Mexico, five hundred dollars.
"Every member of a firm or company, every agent, person
or corporation, owning and running job-boats within the corporate limits, fifty dollars."
Joseph Cooper was the owner of two steam propellers, each
measuring over 100 tons, duly enrolled and licensed at the port
of New Orleans, undef the laws of the United States, to be employed in the coasting frade, and employed them as towboats
in taking vessels from the sea up the river to New Orleans and
from that port to the sea.
The city of New Orleans brought its action against him in
the Third District Court for the Parish of Orleans to recover
the license tax under the ordinance, and obtained a judgment
in its favor, which, on appeal, was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State. The writ of error in this case was sued out
by Cooper to reverse that judgment. After entry of the suit
here Cooper died, and the plaintiff in error, as his widow in
community and tutrix of his minor heirs, was admitted to prosecute it.
.Mr. J R. Beekwiah for plaintiff in error.
.Xr. S. P. Blanc, and &Jfr. C. F. Buck for defendant in
error.-This writ of error brings before this court, for review,
only the question-whether the imposition of a license tax on
the calling, trade or occupation of running and operating towboats within municipal limits, and to the Gulf of Mexico, is a
restraint or regulation imposed on commerce, and as such,
violative of the laws-and Constitution of the United States.I. The license tax sued for is not a regulation of commerce and
as such inhibited by the Constitution. Steamboats, ships,
ferryboats, etc., are liable to taxation, as property, at their
home ports. St. Jose~pk v. Saville, 39 Missouri, 460; .iturn v. llays, 2 Cal.590; fNew Albany v. 3feekin, 3 Ind.481;

MORAN v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

-organ v. Parham, 16 Wall. 471; Tilkey v. Pekin, 19 Ill.
160; Hays v. The PaifA .2ailSteamship Co., 17 How. 596;
Hoyt v. Commissoners of Taxes, 23 N. Y. 224; Peoplev. Commissioners of Taxes, 48 Barb. 157; Battle v. .A1ble, OjikAla.
234; Perry v. Torrenee, 8 Ohio, 521. A State tax which remotely affects the efficient exercise of a Federal power is not
for that reason alone prohibited. Railroad Co. v. Perr2 ton,
18 Wall. 5. So a State tax on telegraph companies is
valid. Wediern Union Telegravh Co. v. PRicmrond, 26 Gratt. 1.
See also License Cases, 5 How. 504; IVallcott v. People, 17
Mich. 68; S/ate Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232; 3Tathzan v. Lozislana, 8 How. 73; 8 Wall. 123, 148; Osborne v. .obile, 16
Wall. 479.-H. The enrollment or licensing a vessel confers
upon it no immunity from the valid laws of a State. Baker
v. Wise, 16 Gratt. 139; Smith v. .farylamd, 18 How. 71; YVewport v. Taylor, 16 B. Mon. 699; Conway v.'Taylor, 1 Black,
603. The Federal license is authority to use the vessel, but
confers no exemption from State taxation. A State may even
prohibit a business which is taxed by Congress. Pervear v.
Commonwealth, 5 Wall. 475.
Mz. JusnCE MATT Ews delivered the opinion of the court.
He stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The defence relied on at the trial and overruled was that the
ordinance imposing the license tax was a regulation of commerce among the States, and'therefore contrary to Art. I. ยง 8,
par. 3 of the Constitution of the United States and void.
Whether the Supreme Court of Louisiana erred in overruling
that defence is the single question presented for our consideration.
In the case of Sinnot v. Davenport, 2 How. 227, it was
decided that a law of Alabama requiring owners of steamboats
navigating the waters of the State, before such boit shall leave
the port of Mobile, to file a statement in'writing in the office
of the probate judge of the county, setting forth the name of
the vessel, the name, place of residence, and the interest of
each owner in the vessel, under a penalty for non-compliance,
as applied to a vessel which had taken out a license and was

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

duly enrolled under the act of Congress for carrying on the
coasting trade and plied between New Orleans and the cities
of Montgomery and Wetumpka, in Alabam, was in conifict
with the act of Congress, and was therefore unconstitutional

and void.
Mr. Justice Nelson, delivering the opinion of the court said:
"The whole commercial marine of the country is placed by
the Constitution under the regulation of Congress, and all laws
passed by that body, in the regulation of navigation and trade,
whether foreign or coastwise, is therefore but the exercise of
an undisputed power. When, therefore, an act of the legislature of a State prescribes a regulation of the subject repugnant
to and inconsistent with the regulation of Congress, the State
law must give way; and this, without regard to the source of
power whence the State legislature derived its enactment."
(Page 243.)
And, repeating what was said in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1, on pages 210-214, as to the force and effect of the act of
Congress providing for the enrollment and license of vessels
engaged in the coasting trade, and of the license itself when
issued, Mr. Justice Nelson said:
"These are the guards and restraints, and the only guards
and restraints, which Congress has seen fit to annex to the
privileges of ships and vessels engaged in the coasting trade,
and upon a compliance with which, as we have seen, as full
and complete authority is conferred by the license to carry on
the trade as Congress is capable of conferring."
The act of the Legislature of Alabama in that case was
declared void on the single and distinct ground that it imposed
another and an additional condition to the privilege of carrying
on this trade Within her waters.
Immedfately following that case, argued and decided at the
same time, was that of Foster v. Davenport, 22 How. 244. It
differed from the former in this respect only, that the vessel
seized for non-compliance with the law of Alabama was engaged in lightering goods from and to vessels anchored in the
lower bay of Mobile and th6 wharves of the city, and in towing vessels anchored there to and from the city, and, in some
-

MORAN v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

instances, towing the same beyond the outer bar of the bay
and into the Gulf to the distance of several miles, but was
duly enrolled and licensed to carry on the coasting trade while
engaged in this business. Mr. Justice Nelson, delivering the
opinion of the court, said:
"It is quite apparent, from the facts admitted in the case,
that the steamboat was employed in aid of vessels engaged in
the foreign or coastwise trade and commerce of the United
States, either in the delivery of their cargoes, or in towing the
vessels themselves to the port of Mobile. The character of the
navigation and business in which it was employed cannot be
distinguished from that in which the vessels it towed or unloaded were engaged. The lightering or towing was but the
prolongation of the voyage of the vessels assisted to their port
of destination."
The present case would seem to fall directly within
the rule of these decisions, unless the fact that the ordinance
of the city of New Orleans is the exercise of the faxing
power of the State, can be supposed to make a material difference.
But since the case of Brown v. .1aylaZnd,12 Wheat. 419,
it has been repeatedly decided by this court, that when a law
of a State imposes a tax, under such circumstances and with
such effect as to constitute it a regulation of commerce, eithbr
foreign or inter-state, it is void on that account. Tclegrajk
Clo. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, and cases there cited. In the
State Fi'eight Tax Cases, 15 Wall. 232-276, it was said that
it could not make any difference that the legislative purpose
was to raise money for the support of the State government,
and not to regulate transportation; that it was not the purpose
of the law, but its effect, which was to be onsidered. The
fundamental proposition on the subject was expressed by fr.
Justice Miller, delivering the opinion of the court in Crandall
v. 11,evad, 6 Wall. 35-45, in this comprehensive language:
"The question of the taxing power of the States, as its exercise has affected the functions of- the Federal Government, has
been repeatedly considered by this court, and the right of, the
States in this mode to impede or embarrass the constitutional

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Cont.

operations of that government, or the rights which its citizens
hold under it, has been uniformly denied."
Otherwise unrestrained by the authority of the Federal Constitution, the taxing power of the States extends to and embraces the persons, property and pursuits of their people; although it is not always easy, in particular cases, to draw the
line which separates the two jurisdictions; as may be seen by
comparing the cases of Te State F'reigt Tax, 15 Wall. 232,
and of the State Tax on Railway Gross Receipte, 15 Wall. 284,
and as was said in Osborne v. Xfobile, 16 Wall. 479.
And it is undoubtedly true, as it has often been-- judicially
declared, that vessels engaged in foreign or inter-state commerce, and duly enrolled and licensed under the acts of Congress, may be taxed by State authority as property; provided,
the tax be not a tonnage duty, is levied only at the port of
registry, and is valued as other property in the State, without
unfavoiable discrimination on account of its employment.
Transfpo'rtationm Co. v. Fheeling, 99 U. S. 273 ; iorganv. Parham, 16 Wall. 471; H7ays v. Paflo -Afail Steamship Co., 17
Howard, 596; Wiggins FeFrry Co. v. East St. Louis, 107 U. S.
365.
Bat the license fee in the present case is not a tax upon the
boats as property, according to any valuation. The. very law
authorizing its iml osition declares that it shall not be construed to be a tax on property.
It is said, however, to be a tax on an occupation, and for
that reason not a regulation of commerce. If it were a tax
upon the income derived from the business, it might be justified by the principle of the decision in the case of the State
Tax on It'ilway Gross Receipte; 15 Wall. 284, which shows
the distinction between a tax on transportation and a tax upon
its fruits, realized and reduced to possession, so as to have become part of the general capital and property of the tax-payer.
But here it is not a tax on the profits and income after they
have been realized from the business. It is a charge explicitly
made as the price of the privilege of navigating the Mississippi
River between ,New Orleans and the Gulf, in the coastwise
trade; as the condition on, which the State of Louisiana con-

MORAITv. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

sents that the boats of the plaintiff in error may be employed
by him according to the terms of the license granted under the"
authority of Congress. The sole occupation sought to be subjected to the tax is that of using and enjoying the license of
the United States to employ these particular vessels in the
coasting trade; and the State thus seeks to burden with an
exaction, fixed at its own pleasure, the very right to which the
plaintiff in error is entitled under, and which he derives from,
the Constitution and laws of the United States. The Louisiana statute declares expressly that if he refuses or neglects to
pay the license tax .imposed upon him, for using his boats in
this way, he shall not be permitted to act under, and avail himself of the license granted by the United States, but may be
enjoined from so doing by judicial process. The conflict between the two authorities is direct and express. What the one
declares may be done without the tax, the other declares shall
not be done except upon payment of the tax. In sueh an
opposition, the only question is, which is the superior authority;
and reduced to that, it furnishes its own answer.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is accortingly reversed, and the cause remand d, with directions to
rendei a judgmwent reversing that of the Third .District
Court for the Parishof Orleans, and directingthat court
to render a judgment dismissing the petition of the city qf
New Orleans.
By stipulation of counsel on file, the same judgment. is to be
entered jn the case of -E. V Yorke v. The City of New Orledns,
No. 34, and The .Eclip e Towboat Company v. The City of New
Orleans,No. 35.

