SCHARFF v. LEVY.
Counsel for Parties.

citation, nor with a notice of an application for the allowance
of an appeal, until after the axpiration of sixty days, Sundays
exclusive, from the time of the rendition of the decree appealed
from. In the same affidavit it is stated, however, that the
proctor of the appellees was informed that an appeal bond had
been presented to the Circuit Court for approval within the
sixty days. It is also stated that on the 10th of January, 1884,
an order allowing an appeal was entered nunc pvro tuno as of
the date of the presentation of the bond. An affidavit filed by
the appellants shows, that, on the day the bond was presented
to the Circuit Court, it was approved, allowed and filed in the
cause. As upon this motion it rests upon the appellees to show
that the bond was not accepted ii time, and that has not been
done, the motion to vacate the supersedeas is denied.
In this connection we take occasion to say, that motions of
this kind, made before the record is printed, must be accompanied by a statement of the facts on which they rest, agreed
to by the parties, or supported by printed copies of so much
of the record as will enable us to act understandingly, without
reference to the transcript on file.
Motin denie.

SCHARFF & Another v. LEVY & Another.
Inq ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MfISSOURI.
Submitted November 24, 1884.-Decided December 15, 184.

A case cannot be- removed from a State court under the act of March 3, 1875,
18 Stat. 470, after hearing on a demurrer to a complaint because it did not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Alley v. Nett, 111

U. S. 472, affirmed.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ilfr. Jo, TV. Y*oble and John C. Orrick for plaintiff in error.
.3fr. John P. Ellis and 21r. Jef. Chandler for defendant in
error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHiFr JUSTICE WAITE. delivered

the opinion of the court.

The order remanding this cause to the State court from which
it was removed is affirmed on the authority of Alley v. -rott,
111 I. S. 472, where it was decided that a case could not be
removed from a State court under the act of March 3, 1875,
ch. 137, 18 Stat. 410, after a hearing on a demurrer to a complaint because it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action. To that decision we adhere. The Code of
Civil Procedure of New York, from which State that cause
came, provided that the court might, in its discretion, allow the
party in fault to plead over or amend after the decision against
him on a demurrer. In Missouri, from which State this case
comes, ยง 3518 of the Revised Statutes, 1879, provides that a
plaintiff may amend, of course, with or without costs, as the
court may order. But in Missouri, as in New York, a general
demurrer to a petition or complaint raises an issue of law, which
when tried, will finally dispose of the case unless the plaintiff
amends or the defendant answers, as may be required. "If
final judgment is entered on the demurrer, it will be a final determination of the rights of the parties, which can be pleaded
in bar of another suit for the same cause of action." An issue
of law involving the merits of the action is as much tried on
the hearing of a demurrer in Missouri as it is in New York.'
The fact that in Missouri an amendment may be made or a
plea filed as a matter of course does not affect the principle on
which the right of removal depends.
The demurrer in the present case is not set out in full in the
record, but it is conceded, in the brief of counsel for the plaintiffs in error, that it was "on the ground that the facts stated
did not constitute a cause of action," and that would have been
a fair inference from the entry, " demurrer filed," if the admisAflrmed.
sion had not been made.

