ST. PAUL RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

733

Syllabus.
The judgment of the Supreme Court as to the land in this,
its second class, is correct, whatever may have been its reasons
for it.
It is no answer to this to say that the Secretary of the Interior certified these lands to the State for the use of the
appellant. It is manifest that he did so under a mistake of
the law, namely, that appellant, having made the earlier location of its road through these lands, became entitled to satisfy
all its demands, either for lieu, lands or for the extended grant
of 1864, out of any odd sections within twenty miles of that
location, without regard to its proximity to the line of the
other road. We have already shown that such is not the law,
and this erroneous decision of his cannot deprive the Winona
Company of rights which became vested by its selection of
those lands. Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, SO; Gibson v.
Chouleau, 13 Wall. 92, 102; Shepley v. Cowen, 91 U. S. 330,
340; .Moorev. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530, 536.
We see no prror in the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota, and it is accordingly
Affirmed.

ST. PAUL

& DULUTH

RAILIOAD

COMPANY

v.

UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted December 8, 181.-Decided January 5, 185.

A voluntary transfer of a claim against the United States by way of mortgage,
completed and made absolute by judicial sale, is within the provision, in Rev.
Stat. ยง 3477, that assignments of claims against the United States shall be
void, "unless they are freely made and executed, in the presence of at least
two attesting witnesses, after the allowance of such a claim, the ascertainment of the amount due, and the issuing of a warrant for the payment
thereof."
A transfer of a contract with the United States by way of mortgage, completed
and made absolute by judicial sale, is within the prohibition of Rev. Stat.
3737, that "no contract or order, or any interest therein, shall be transferred by the party to whom such contract or order is given to any other

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
party, and any such transfer shall cause the annulment of the contract or
order transferred, so far as the United States are concerned."
The rulings of the court in Chicago & Northwestern _ailway Co. v. United
States, 104 U. S. 00, and Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway "Co.v.
United States, 104 U. S. 687, maintained.

This case came up on appeal from the Court of Claims.
The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
Yr.J F Farnsworth, for appellant.
.Abr. Solicitor-General, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MATTrEWs delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 8th day of October, 1875, the Lake Superior and
:Mississippi Railroad Company entqred into a contract in wri
ing with the United States, acting by !he Post.r ,er-Geneial,
for carrying the mails between St. Paul and Duluth for a term
of four years, for an agreed compensation of $13,859.97 per
aniun.
On the 20th da of October, 1876, the Post iaste " ineral
gave notice to the company of a reduction in its compensation
at the rate of $2,772 per annum, in accordance with the Post
Office Appropriation Act of July 12, 1876 ; and on the 28th
day of August, 1878, a further decrease -was notified by the
department- under the Post Office Appropriation Act of June
30th, 1878, amounting to $498.96 per annum.
The total, reduction amounted to $12,141.36, of which $3,686.76 was made prior to June 12, 1877, and $8,454.60 after
that dcte. The service rendered during the first period was by
the contractor, the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad
Company; during the latter period, by the appellant, the St.
Paul and Duluth Railroad Company, claiming to be the successor to all rigthts of the former under the contract.
. Its title thereto arises under a judicial sale by virtue of a
decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota, foreclosing a mortgage given by the Lake
Superior and Mississippi Railroad Company to trustees to se-cure its bonds, dated January 1, 1869.

ST. PAUL RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

'35

Opinion of the Court.

This mortgage professes to convey the lands of the mortgagor, to which it was or liaight be entitled under grants from
the United States and the State of Minnesota, and its railroad
constructed or to be constructed, right of way, and all tracks,
bridges, viaducts, culverts, fences, depots, station-houses and
other similar houses, superstructures, erections, and fixtures
held or to be acquired for the use of the railway, or in connection therewith, or the business thereof; also, all locomotives,
tenders, cars, rolling stock or equipments, and all machinery,
tools, implements, &c., and also all franchises connected with
or relating to said railway and said line of telegraph, and all
corporate franchises of any nature, including the franchise
to be a corporation, and all endowments, income and advantages, &c., to the above-mentioned lands, railroad, or property
belonging or appertaining, and the income, rents, issues and
profits thereof.
The decree for sale directs the sale of the mortgaged premises, and a sale thereof was confirmed by the court and a conveyance made to the appellant, a corporation organized by the
purchasers for that purpose, under the laws of Minnesota, on
June 27, 1878.
In respect to the claim of the appellant for so much of the
reduction made by the Post Office Department as relates to
the service performed prior to the sale by the Lake Superior
and Mississippi Railroad Company, it would be governed by
the decision of this court in the cases of the Chicago & .North
IFesterm Railway Co. v. United States, 101 U. S. 680, and the
Chicago, .i lwaukee & St. Paul Railway Co. v. U ited States,
104 U. S. 687, if the corporation with whom the contract was
made were the claimant; but we do not find in the mortgage,
or decree for sale, any terms of description, as to the property
and interests conveyed, sufficient to pass the interest therein of
the original company to the purchasers at the sale.
The same remark applies to the contract itself. The appellant, by virtue of the sale of the railroad and property rights
mortgaged, did not become assignee of the contract between
the United States and the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad Company, and can claim nothing as such in this suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

There are no words of description in the mortgage which include it. The fact that service wdi performed in carrying the
mail, subsequent to the sale, by the appellant, does not commit the government to a recognition of the contract as if made
with it. No such recognition is found as a fact by the Court
of Claims, and it is apparent, from the facts found, that the
Post Office Department treated the service performed by the
appellant as subject to regulation according to the terms of the
act of June 17,1878, which justified the reduction complained of,
If it were otherwise, however, the appellant's case must still
fail.
That part of its claim for services rendered prior to the sale
by the Lake Superior and :Iississippi River Railroad Company
falls within the prohibition of IRev. Stat. 3477, which provides
that, "All transfers and assignments made of any claim upon
the United -States, or any part or share thereof, or interest
therein, whether absolute or conditional, and whatever may be
the consideration therefor, and all powers of attorney, orders,
or other authorities for receiving payment of any such claim, or
any part or share thereof, shall be absolutely null and void,
unless they are freely made and executed in the presence of at
least 'two attesting witnesses, after the allowance of such a
claim, the ascertainment of the amount due, and the issuing of
a warrant for the payment thereof."
In Erwin v. The United States, 97 U. S. 392, it was held
that an assignment by operation of law to an assignee in bankruptcy was not within the prohibition of the statute; and in
Goodman v. Yi black, 102 U. S. 556, a voluntary assignment by
an insolvent debtor, for the benefit of creditors, was held valid
to pass the title to a claim against the United States. But, in
our opinion, the present case is not within the principle of these
exceptions, but falls within the purview of the prohibition. It
is a voluntary transfer, by way of mortgage, for the security of
a debt, and finally completed and made absolute by a judicipl
sale.
If the statute does not apply to such cases, it would be difficult to draw a line of exclusion which leaves any place for the
operation of the prohibition.

PEUGH v. PORTER.
Opinion of the Court.

So, the transfer, by the same proceeding, of the contract itself,
so as to entitle the assignee to perform the service and claim
the compensation stipulated for, is forbidden by Rev. Stat.
ยง 3737, which provides that " no contract or order, or any interest
therein, shall be transferred by the party to whom such contract
or order is given to any other party, and any such transfer shall
cause the annulment of the contract or order transferred, so
far as the United States are concerned."
The explicit provisions of this statute do not require any
comment. No explanation could make it plainer.
Thejudgment of the Court of Claims is ffirmed.
17int , .Pgre.3farquette-Railroad Company v. United States
was also an appeal from the Court of Claims. See 18 C. Cl. 420.
The facts raised the question decided in the second branch of the
foregoing case. Judgment below affirmed, see post, 762.

PEUGH v. PORTER & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREMM COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COL1ThtIA.
Arued December 17, 1884.-Decided January 5, 1.85.

An instrument, by which A, as attorney in fact by substitution, for good consideration, assigns to B an interest in claims to be established against a foreign government in a mixed commission, is valid in equity, although made
before the establishment of the claim, and creation of the fund ; and may
work a distinct appropriation of the fund in B's favor, to the extent of the
assignment, within the rule laid down in Wright v. Bilison, 1 Wall 16.

This was an appeal from a decree in a suit in equity in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. The facts which
make the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mr. Jeremiah X. V lson (Yr. Shellabargerwas with him)
for appellant.
VoL. cxn-47

