'CASES ADJUDGED
fN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED. STATES,
.&T

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.

UNITED STATES v. MORTON .
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAM-S.
Submitted October 15, 1884.-Decided October 27, 188.

The time of service of a cadet in the Military Academy at West Point, from
July 1st, 1865, to June 15th, 1869, is to be regarded as "actual time of
service in the army," -within the meaning of the acts of February 24th,
1831, and June 80th,1882, 21 Stat. 346. and 22 Stat. 118, in computing
his increase of pay "I for each term of five years of service," under § 1262
of the Revised Statutes.

Charles Morfon was appointed a conditional cadet in the
service of the United States on March 6th, 1865, and was admitted as a conditional cadet Qn July 1st, 1865, into the United
States Military Academy at West Point, and received his warrant as a dadet, signed by the Secretary of Wax, in January,
1866, stating that he had been appointed by the President a
cadet of the United States iMilitary Academy, to rank as such
from July 1st, 1865. On the 1st of July, 1865, when he was
so admitted as a conditional cadet, he entered into an agreement, as required by law, bearing that date, and subscribed and
sworn to by him, which stated, that, "having been selected for
an appointment as cadet in the Military Academy of the United
States," he engaged, with the consent of his father, in the event
of his receiving such appointment, that he would "serve
VOL. cXrI.-I

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for AppeUant.

in the army of the United States" for eight years, unless
sooner discharged by competent authority. The instrument
embodied also the oath required by the act of July 2d, 1862,
12 Stat. 502, to be thereafter taken and subscribed by every
person "elected or appointed to any office of honor or profit
under the government of the United States, either in the civil,
military, or naval departments of the public service, excepting
the President of the United States," "before entering upon the
duties of such office, and before being entitled to any of the
salary or other emoluments thereof." Part of the oath was,
"that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am about to enter." He remained at the
Academy from July lht, 1865, until June 15th, 1869, when he
was duly graduated therefrom. He was commissioned as a
second lieutenant in the third regiment of cavalry, to date from
June 15th, 1869, and thereafter as a first lieutenant in the same
regiment, to take effect from September 25th, 1876. He held
the latter position down to March 31st, 1883. He faithfully
discharged the duties imposed on him by these various appointments, being continuously in the service of the United States,
in a military capacity, from July 1st, 1865, to March 31st,
1883. In computing his service pay, he was not allowed credit
for the time he was a cadet at West Point as part of his time
of service in the army. He brought suit in the Court of
Claims, against the United States, in July, 1883, to recover
$169.07, as withheld from him in respect of time between February 24th, 1881, and March 31st, 1883, and, on the foregoing
facts, that court rendered a judgment in his favor for that
amount (see 19 C. Cl. 200), from which the United States appealed.
X>. Solicitorn General, in submitting the case on behalf of
the, appellant, rested upon the opinion of Attorney-General
McVeagh, dated May 14th, 1881, under which the Executive
Departments acted in rejecting the appellee's claim. In this
opinion, among other things, it was said-" The question submitted by you is whether the period passed by a cadet at West
.Point receiving his military and other instruction at that Acad-

UNITED STATES v. MORTON.
Opinion of the Court.

emy is to be computed as ' actual time of service in the army;'
and I have no difficulty whatever in answering this question in
the negative." Attorney-General Cushing said: "We see by
the statute that the internal military organization of the
Academy is for the purpose of military instruction. It is not
Opins. Att'ys-General, 333. If
actualservice in the army."
it had been the intention of Congress to enact that the period
passed by the cadets at West Point should be placed upon the
footing of actual service in the alny, it would have been perfectly easy to have said so by language incapable of being misunderstood; and it seems to me that it is extremely undesirablerto torture the language of Congress in order to find in it,
by relation to some other statute, a technical effect, when the
apt words to express such an intention readily occur to every
unbiased mind. It is very true that the corps of cadets at West
Point constitute part of the army, but it does not follow that
a cadet pursuing his studies at West Point is in actual service
ir the ar2my, within the meaning of the clause in the army appropriation bill; and, if Congress at any time desires to add
this advantage to those already possessed by the young men
who are educated at the public expense at the Military Academy, it will be very easy for it to do so by declaring that the
time passed by cadets at the Military or Naval Academy shall
be computed as "actual time of service in the army or navy;"
but, until language clearly indicative of this meaning is used it
would be, in my judgment, very unwise to endeavor to extract
it from a clause in the army appropriation bill treating only of
the army as in actual service in the ordinary meaning of the
phrase.
Mr. S. S. Henkle for appellee.
:Mi. JUsTICoE BLATCHFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.
He stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
It is provided as follows by § 1262 of the Revised Statutes:
"There shall be allowed and paid to each commissioned officer
below the rank of brigadier-general

.

.

.

ten per centum

of their current yearly pay for each term of five years of ser-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

vice." In the acts of February 24th, 1881, 21 Stat. 346, and
June 30th, 1882, 22 Stat. 118, making appropriations for the
support of the army, under the head, "For jay of the army,"
gross sums are appropriated for, among other things, this purpose: "Additional pay to 6fficers for length of service, to be
paid with their current monthly pay, and the actual time of
service in the army or navy, or both, shall be allowed all officers in computing their pay." The only question for decision
is, whether the time of service as a cadet is to be regarded as
"actual time of service in the army."
The view acted on by the accounting officers of the government in dealing with the officer under § 1262 of the :Revised
Statutes, and § 24 of the act of July 15th, 18110, 16 Stat. 320,
of which § 1262 was a re-enactment, was to allow only for
length of service as a commissioned officer in the regular army.
By § 7 of the act of June 18th,. 1878, 20 Stat. 150, it was provided that officers of the army who had served "as enlisted
men in the armies of the United States, regular or volunteer,"
should be credited with the full time they had served as such
enlisted men, "in computing their service for longevity pay."
Under this statute the. practice was not to regard an officer
who had served as a cadet as having thereby served as an
enlisted mpn in the 'army, 16 Opin. Attys-General, 611;
and the Court of Claims, in Ba1bitt v. The United State, 16
C. 01. 202, supported that view. After the passage of the act
of February 24th, 1881, the accounting officers of the government administered it as not requiring that the time of service
as a cadet should be allowed as "actual time of service in the
army." This was done in pursuance of the advice of Attorney-General McVeagh.
But an examination of the legislation of Congress shows that
the cadets at West Point were always a part of the army, and
that service as a cadet was always actual service in the army.
Cadets are first mentioned in the act of Mftay 9th, 1794, 1 Stat.
366, which provided for organizing, by voluntary enlistment,
a corps of artillerists and engineers, of which a part was to be
thirty-two cadets, ranking as sergeants, but spoken of as
officers. . These were part of the army. By § 6 of the act of

UNITED -STATES v. MORTON.
Opinion of the Court.

July "16th, 1798, 1 Stat. 605, cadets are called non-commissioned officers in the army of the United States, and their pay
is fixed at $10 per month and two rations per day.
By the act of March 16th, 1802, entitled "An Act fxing
the military peace establishment of the United States," 2 Stat.
132, it was provided (§ 1) that the military peace establishment
of the United States should embrace a regiment of artillerists,
of which a part should be forty cadets. By §§ 4'and 5 the pay
and rations of the cadets were fixed. By § 26 provision was made
for organizing a corps of engineers, consisting of officers,-and
ten cadets, whose pay was fixed; and by § 27 the corps was to
be stationed at West Point, New York, and to constitute "!a
military academy," and the officers and cadets were to be
"subject, at all times, to do duty in such places and on such
service" as the President should direct. Clearly, all these
cadets were a part of the army.
By §§ 1 and 2 of the act of Ap1il 12th, 1808, 2 Stat. 481,
additional military forces were to be raised, comprising, in infantry, riflemen, artillery, and dragoons, one hundred and fiftysix cadets, the cadets, (84), to receive the like pay, &c., with the
cadets of the then existing military establishment, and being
classed by themselves and not as either officers or non-commissioned officers, and, (§ 5), to be subject, with the then existing
cadets, to the rules and*articles of war, which had been established or might thereafter, by law, be established.
By § 2 of the act of April 29th, 1812, 2 Stat. 720, entitled
"An Act making further provision for the corps of engineers,"
it was provided that the Military Academy should consist of
the corps of engineers and certain professors. By § 3 it was
enacted that the cadets theretofore "appointed in the service
of the United States, whether of artillery, cavalry, riflemen or.
infantry," or that might in future be appointed, as thereinafter
provided, should not exceed two hundred and fifty, and might
be attached by the President, as students, to the Military
Academy, and be subject to the established regulations thereof;
"that they shall be arranged into companies of non-commissioned officers and privates, according to the directions of the
commandant of engineers, and be officered from the said corps,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

for the purposes of military instruction; that there shall be
added to each company of cadets four musicians; and the said
corps shall be trained and taught all the duties of a private,
non-commission~d officer, and officer, be encamped at least three
months of each year, and taught all the duties incident to a
regular camp; that the candidates for cadets be not under the
age of fourteen nor above the age of twenty-one years; that
each cadet

.

.

.

shall sign articles, with the consent of his

parent or guardian, by which he shall engage to serve five
years, unless sooner discharged; and all such cadets shall be
entitled to and receive the pay and emoluments now allowed
by law to cadets in the corps of engineers." This was the
organization of the Military Academy substantially as it has
since continued.
By § 1 of the act of March 3d, 1815, 3 Stat. 224, entitled
"An Act fixing the military peace establishment of the United
States," it is directed that the corps of engineers, as then established, be retained; by § 4, that the compensation, &c., of the
.cadets and others "composing the military peace establishment" should be the same as prescribed by the before mentioned
acts of 1802 and 1808; and by § 7, that the several corps authorized by the act "shall be subject to the rules and articles of war."
By § 28 of the act of July 5th, 1838, 5 Stat. 260, it was
enacted that "the term for which cadets hereafter admitted
into the M ilitary Academy at West Point shall engage to serve,
be and the sanie is hereby increased to eight years, unless sooner
discharged."
By § 1 of the act of July 28th, 1866, 14 Stat. 332, it was
provided, that the military .peace establishment of the United
States should thereafter consist of so many regiments of artillery, of cavalry apd of infantry, "the professors and corps of
cadets of the United States Military Academy," 4nd such other
forces as should be provided for by that act, "to be known as
the army of th United States." This enactment remained in
force, and is reproduced in §1094 of the Revised Statutes, which
says that "the army of the United States shall consist of,"
with other constituents, "the professors and corps of cadets of
the United States Military Academy."

, UNITED STATES v. MORTON.
Opinion of the Court.

From this review of the statutes, it cannot be doubted that,
before the passage of the act of July 28th, 1866, as well as
afterwards, the corps of cadets of the Military Academy was a
part of the army of the United States, and a person serving
as a cadet was serving in the army; and, that the time during
which the plaintiff in the present case wa . serving as a cadet,
was, therefore, actual time of service by him in the army.
The practical construction of the requirement of the act of
1838, that the cadet should engage to serve for eight years,
shown by the fact that the form of the engagement in this
case was to "serve in the Army of the United States for eight
years," is a circumstance of weight to show that the government, from the beginning, treated the plaintiff as serving in the
army. The service for which he engaged began on the 1st of
July, 1865, and the eight years ran from that time. That being
his status, the acts of 1881 and 1882, in speaking of "actual
time of service in the army," cover the time of his service as
a cadet.
In United Stats v. Tyl~e, 105 U. S. 2414, it was held that
an officer retired from active service, who was declared'by
statute to be a part of the army, who could wear its uniform,
whose name was required to be borne on its register, who might
be detailed by his superior officers to perform specified duties,
and who was subject to the rules and articles of war, was in
the military service; and that the increase of pay given for each
term of five years of service, by § 1262 of the Revised Statutes,
and by § 24 of the act of July'lSth, 1870, 16 Stat. 320, from
which that section was taken, applied to the years so passed in
the service after, as well as before, retirement. Under the
statutes involved in the present case, a cadet at West Point is
serving in the army as fully as an officer retired from active
service is serving in the army, under the statutes which apply
to him so far as the question of longevity pay is concemed.
Thejudgment of the Court of Claims is affirmed.

