OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Insurance Co., 111 Mass. 92, 110; Brink v. Hanover Fire Insurance Co., 80 N. Y. 108; May on Insurance, ยง 468, 469.
1 The preliminary proof of loss or death required by. a policy
Is intended for the security of the insurers in paying the amount
insured. If they refuse to pay at all, and base their refusal
upon some distinct ground without reference to the want of
defect of the preliminary proof, the occasion for it ceases, and it
will be deemed to be waived. And this can work no prejudice
to the insurers, for in an action on the policy the plaintiff would
be obliged to prove the death of the person whose life was insured, whether the preliminary proofs were exhibited or not.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
remanded with directions to award a new trial.

POWER & Another v. BAKER & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TEE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Submitted November 24, 1884.-Decided December 15, 1884.

Motions to vacate a supersedeas, and other motions of that kind, made before the
record is printed, must be accompanied by a statement of the facts on which
they rest, agreed to by the parties, or supported by printed copies of so much
of the record as will enable the court to act understandingly, without reference to the transcript on file.

This was a motion to vacate a supersedeas.
.X.

:. H

Davidson for the motion.

Mr. -EdwardG. Rogers opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

Neither the record in this case, nor the part thereof on which
this motion depends, has been printed, and the appellees have
neglected to state in their motion papers the facts as presented
by the transcript on which they rely. An affidavit has been
filed to the effect that the appellees were not served with a

SCHARFF v. LEVY.
Counsel for Parties.

citation, nor with a notice of an application for the allowance
of an appeal, until after the axpiration of sixty days, Sundays
exclusive, from the time of the rendition of the decree appealed
from. In the same affidavit it is stated, however, that the
proctor of the appellees was informed that an appeal bond had
been presented to the Circuit Court for approval within the
sixty days. It is also stated that on the 10th of January, 1884,
an order allowing an appeal was entered nunc pvro tuno as of
the date of the presentation of the bond. An affidavit filed by
the appellants shows, that, on the day the bond was presented
to the Circuit Court, it was approved, allowed and filed in the
cause. As upon this motion it rests upon the appellees to show
that the bond was not accepted ii time, and that has not been
done, the motion to vacate the supersedeas is denied.
In this connection we take occasion to say, that motions of
this kind, made before the record is printed, must be accompanied by a statement of the facts on which they rest, agreed
to by the parties, or supported by printed copies of so much
of the record as will enable us to act understandingly, without
reference to the transcript on file.
Motin denie.

SCHARFF & Another v. LEVY & Another.
Inq ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MfISSOURI.
Submitted November 24, 1884.-Decided December 15, 184.

A case cannot be- removed from a State court under the act of March 3, 1875,
18 Stat. 470, after hearing on a demurrer to a complaint because it did not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Alley v. Nett, 111

U. S. 472, affirmed.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ilfr. Jo, TV. Y*oble and John C. Orrick for plaintiff in error.
.3fr. John P. Ellis and 21r. Jef. Chandler for defendant in
error.

