UNITED STATES v. GREAT FALLS MFG. CO.

645

Syllabus.

operative to prevent those who hold the reissue in suit, whether
in respect to the time before or after the extension, from being
heard to allege that persons who use machines with a stationary
die D and a movable bunter* E infringe the claims of the reissue. The disclaimer was one of the fact of invention. It
could not lawfully be anything but a disclaimer of the fact,
either of original invention, or of first invention. It was not
merely the expunging of a descriptive part of the specification,
involving only the propriety of inserting such descriptive part
in the specification, but it was a disclaimer of all claim based
on such descriptive part, because the claims were made to cover
such descriptive part, by the words "substantially as described,"
in the two claims. The question of fact is not open now as to
whether Allen invented at any time the stationary die D and
movable bunter E, or as to whether it was, or is, or could be,
a mechanical equivalent for the movable die D and stationary
bunter E, because those questions are concluded by the dis,Plaimer.
It is conceded by the plaintiff, that, if by the operation of
the disclaimer, it is estopped to say that a stationary die D and
a movable bunter E are the equivalent of the movable die D
and the stationary bunter E, the defendant does not infringe.
[e decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, with costs to the.
united sates Cartridge Cornjamy, on bota apyeals, and
the case is remanded to that court, with direction to ditmiss

the ill, with costs.

UNITED STATES v. GREAT FALLS MANUFAOTUR'L\TG COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued December 1, 1,W4.-DecIded December 2, I554.

Where property to which the United States asserts no title, is taken by their
officers or agents, pursuant to an act of Congress, as private property.
for the public use, the government is under an implied obligation to-make
just compensation to the owner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
Such an implication being consistent with the constitutional duty of the government, as well as with common justice, the owner's claim for compensation is one arising out of implied contract, within the meaning of the statute defining the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, although there may
have been no formal proceedings for the condemnation of the property to
public use.
The owner may waive any objection he might be entitled to make, based upon
the want of such formal proceedings, and, electing to regard the action of
the government as a taking under its sovereign right of eminent domain,
may demand just compensation for the property.

This was an appeal from a judgment in favor of the Great
Falls Manufacturing Company, a corporation of the State of
Virginia, for the sum of $15,692 as compensation for all past
and future use and occupation by the United States of certain
land, water rights and privileges claimed by that company,
and all consequential damages which it may legally assert by
reason of the execution of a certain one of the plans adopted
by the government for supplying the cities of Washington and
Georgetown with water.
The case made by the finding of facts is, in substance, %s
will be now stated:
On the 31st of August, 1852, Congress appropriated $5,000
to enable the President to cause the necessary surveys and estimates to be made for the best means of supplying those cities
with good and wholesome water. 10 Stat. 92, ch. 108. In
execution of that act, Presideiit Fillmore transmitted to Congress the report of General Totten, of the Corps of Engineers,
recommending the construction of an aqueduct from the Great
Falls of the Potomac, situated in the State of Maryland, about
-sixteen miles distant from Washington. The Great Falls form
a series of rapids extending for about one-half or three-fourths
of a mile, in the course of which the river falls about seventy
feet; from which to the tide-level at Washington there is a
further fall of about seventy feet. Just above these rapids is
Conn's Island, lying near the Maryland shore, and distant
about 1,400 feet from the Virginia shore. At its head, qxtending up the stream, are several small islands called the Cyclades, separated from each other and Conn's Island by narrow
channels. On the Virginia side, is a body of land known as

UNITED STATES v. GREAT FALLS MIFG. CO.

647

Statement of Facts.
the Toulson Tract, extending along the river from a point opposite the middle of Conn's Island to a point below the Great
Falls, and running back a distance of about half a mile. A
considerable pordon of it is elevated ground, well adapted to
the construction of mills and manufactories, which may be
supplied with water power from the river, and by canals, races
or other artificial water ways. Before the construction by the
government of the dam and other works to be presently referred to, Conn's Island divided the Potomac River into two
unequal channels, about ninety-eight per cent. of the water
passing through the Virginia channel, and two per cent.
through the Maryland channel, at low stages; the total flow
at low water being estimated at about 1,065 cubic feet per
second, or 700,000,000 gallons daily. Of these lands, water
rights and privileges, the Great Falls Manufacturing Company
claimed to be the owner, at and prior to the before-mentioned
appropriation of $5,000.
On the 3d of March, 1853, Congress appropriated, "to be
expended under the direction of the President of the United
States, for the purpose of bringing water into the city of
Washington upon such plans and from such places as he may
approve, one hundred thousand dollars : friovi kd, that if the
plan adopted by the President should require water to be
drawn from any source within the limits of Maryland, the
assent of the legislature of that State should first be obtained."
10 Stat. 206, ch. 97.
On the 3d of May, 1853, the legislature of Maryland passed
an act giving her assent to the purchase by the United States
of such lands and to the construction of such dams, reservoirs,
buildings and other works, within her limits, as might be required under any plan adopted by the President for supplying
Washington with water. That act provided that, if the United
States could not agree with the owners for the purchase of
land, earth, timber, stone or gravel required for the construction of such works, or in case the owner thereof should be a
ferne covert or under age, non compos mentis, or a non-resident,
"it shall, nevertheless, be lawful for the United States to enter
upon such lands and to take and use such materials, after hay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

ing first made payment or tendered payment for the same at
the valuation assessed thereon," in the manner prescribed in
that act; also, that before the act should take effect, the United
States "shall agree to such conditions as the Chesapeake and
Ohio Canal Company may consider necessary to secure the
canal from injury in carrying into effect any plan that may be
adopted for supplying the city of Washington with Water as
aforesaid."
Then followed certain appropriations by Congress for the
purpose of executing the said plan: $250,000 "for continuing
the work on the Washington Aqueduct," act of March 3, 1855,
ch. 175, 10 Stat. 664; $250,000, or so much thereof as was
necessary, "for paying existing liabilities for the Washington
Aqueduct, and preserving the work already done from injury,"
act of August 16, 1856, ch. 129, 11 Stat. 86; and $1,000,000
"for continuing the Washington Aqueduct," act of March 3,
1857, ch. 108, 11 Stat. 225.
By an act entitled "An Act to acquire certain lands needed
for the Washington Aqueduct, in the District of Columbia,"
appioved April 8, 1858, 11 Stat. 263, ch. 14, it was, among
other things, provided:
I "Whereas it is represented that the works of the Washington aqueduct, in the District of Columbia, are delayed in consequence of the proprietors' refusal, in some cases, to sell lands
required for its construction at reasonable prices, and because
in othdr cases the title to the said land is imperfect, or is vested
in minors or persons non compos mentis, or in a feme covert,
or [in persons] out of the District of Columbia; and whereas
it is necessary for the making of said aqueduct, reservoirs,
dams, ponds, feeders, and other works, that a provision should
be made for condemniiig a quantity of land for the purpose:
Therefore,
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That it
shall and may be lawful for the United States, or its approved
agent, to agree with the owners of any land in the District of
Columbia through which said aqueduct is intended to pass for
the purchase or use and occupation thereof; and in case of dis-

UNITED STATES v. GREAT FALLS MFG. CO.

649

Statement of Facts.
agreement, or in case the owner thereof shall be a feme covert,
under age, non compos, or out of the District of Columbia, on
application to a judge of the circuit court of said District, the
said judge shall issue his warrant, under his hand, to the marshal of the said District to summon a jury."
The rest of the act was limited to mere details.
On the 12th of June, 1858, the further sums of $800,000,
and so much of the $250,000 as was not used under the act of
August 18, 1856, were appropriated "for the completion of the
Washington Aqueduct." 11 Stat. 323, ch. 154. Thereafter,
on the 27th of July, 1858, proceedings were commenced by the
United States, before a justice of the peace in Maryland, for
the assessment of the damages which the dam of the Washington Aqueduct proposed to be constructed at the Great Falls
should cause to the appellee, of which the latter had due notice.
The damages were assessed at $150,000; but, in November
of the same year, the inquisition, -upon the application of
the United States, was set aside by the Circuit Court of
Montgomery County, Maryland, and another one was ordered. But there wis no further prosecution of these proceedings.
By an act approved March 3, 1859, 11 Stat. 435, ch. 84, the
dams, aqueducts, water-gates, reservoirs, and all improvements
connected therewith, constructed or to be constructed by the
United States for the conveyance of water from the Potomac
River, above the Great Falls, to the cities of Washington and
Georgetown, were directed to be placed by the President "under the immediate care, management, and superintendence of
a properly qualified officer of the United States Corps of Engineers to be appointed by him, who shall act under the Department of the Interior," &c.-his decision "to be subject only to
appeal to the Secretary of the Interior."
On the 25th of June, 1860, Congress appropriated the sum
of $500,000 for the aqueduct, "to be expended according to the
plans and estimates of Captain Meigs and under his superintendence." 12 Stat. 106, ch. 211.
On the 20th of November, 1862, articles of agreement were
executed between the Secretary of the Interior, in the name of

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

the United States, and the Great Falls Manufacturing Company, wherein was recited the claim of the latter for compensation for the use by the former of certain lands and water
rights at the Great Falls, the- cost that would ensue to both
parties from any further delay in the settlement of their differences, and the anxiety.of the government to prosecute the work
in question; and whereby such claim was referred to arbitrators, one of whom was the late. Benjamin R. Curtis, with
power to examine into, decide upon, and award such compensation, if any, as the claimiant may be entitled to for the use and
occupation of said land and water rights, and all consequential
damages that the company might legally claim by reason of
the execution of the several plans adopted by the government
in the location and construction of the dams and other works of
the Washington Aqueduct. Pursuant to this agreement, the
United States and the claimant appeared by counsel before the
arbitrators, witnesses were examined, and documentary evidence
was submitted by the respective parties.
At the hearing, the Great Falls Manufacturing Company filed
with the arbitrators a specific description of the lands to which
they asserted title, and which they claimed would be affected
by the improvements made, or proposed to be made. The
United States filed the specifications of their proposed plans of
operations, being four in number. The arbitrators made an
award in writing on the 28th of February, 1863, all the costs
and expenses of which, including $12,000, the amount of compensation charged by them, were paid by the Secretary of the
Interior out of the appropriations for the completion of the
Washington Aqueduct. By the award it was determined that
the amounts to which the company was entitled, as compensation and damages for the use and occupation by the United
States of the land, water rights and privileges claimed by it,
were as follows: If the first plan of improvements was catried
into execution, $63,766; if the second $50,000; if the third,
877,200; if the fourth, $15,692. The fourth plan involved the
construction of a dam of masonry from the Maryland shore to
d ou's Island, and gave the United States the right to deepen
the channel on the Maryland _ide of Conn's Island near its

UNITED STATES v. GREAT FALLS MFG. CO.

651

Statement of Facts.
head, so as to supply the aqueduct with whatever quantity of
water the dams would yield.
The claimants presented to the arbitrators title deeds and
proofs showing a valid title in it to the Toulson Tract, Conn's
Island, and the Cyclades. Objections were presented and urged
on behalf of the United States, but the arbitrators held the title
of claimants to be valid and satisfactory. No other title than
that of claimant was asserted.
The conduit through which the water supply of the city of
Washington is drawn was completed on the 5th of December,
1863.
On the 4t1 of July, 1864, Congress appropriated the sum of
$150,000 "for the purpose of constructing the dam of solid
masonry across the MAaryland branch of the Potomac River,
near the Great Falls, and for constructing the conduit around
the receiving reservoir, and for paying ecisting liabilities qnd
expenses, engineering, superintendence and repairs of said aqueduct." 13 Stat. 384, oh. 244.
On the 30th of July, 1864, the United States entered into a
contract for the construction of that dam, and, proceeding to
construct it, took possession of so much of Conn's Island as was
required for the purpose of securing the dam and making a permanent abutment for it. And on July 28, 1866, the further
sum of $51,687 was appropriated "to complete the dam in the
Potomac River at the head of the aqueduct, from the shore to
Conn's Island, with cut stone." 14 Stat. 316. The dam so
constructed was about 1,176 feet long. It extended from a
point on the Maryland shore, just below the feeder or mouth of
the aqueduct, across the channel between Falls Island and
Conn's Island, to its abutment on the latter island, closing the
Maryland channel of the river entirely across. It was constructed substantially in conformity with the fourth of the
alternative plans presented to the arbitrators by the United
States. Conn's sland, in connection with the M aryland shore
and the dam, formed such a basin as was necessary for the purpose of supplying the aqueduct, having its upper end open to
receive the flow of the water as needed. There was no other
island or natural formation which could be utilized for forming a

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appellant.

suitable basin without carrying the aqueduct much farther up
the river. So that if that island was not used it would be
necessary to incur the expense of a larger aqueduct and to carry
the dam across to the Virginia shore, either above or below the
island, or build some structure to take the place of the island.
From any point belQw the rapids the elevation was insufficient to admit of the distribution of water by aqueduct; but
there was sufficient elevation for that purpose from any point
above them. The uses of the aqueduct required the entire flow
of the water in the Maryland channel in the low stages of the
river. The water drawn through it was distributed in the
cities of Washington and Georgetown -for the use of the govermnent in its buildings,, navy yard, fountains, &c., and for the
municipal and domestic uses of the said cities and their inhabitants. The cost of the present dam was $771,250, while that of
the aqueduct was nearly $4,000,000.
It was also found as a fact that the value of the water for
the uses to which this was applied was derived from its elevation, which would admit of its flow or descent through the city ;
and when found at sufficient elevation to admit of being distributed by its natural flow, it possessed great value, and was
paid for by cities, when taken from the control of private owners, according to its value.
Upon this state of facts, the Court of Claims found, as a conclusion of law, that the claimants were entitled to the judgment
from which the present appeal was prosecuted. See 16 C. C1.
160.

.r. Sol'.citowe- Generaland M'. ok S. Blair for appellant.Neither the President, nor the Secretary of the Interior was
authorized by any statute to contract for lands required for the
dam; that the words of the statutes conferring a power to
contract are limited to land required for the aqueduct proper.
But even if such authority existed, the statutes conferred upon
the P resident or Secretary no power to bind his own official
discretion as to price, &c., by delegating that discretion substantial!y to third.persons. He might have taken information,
through Mr. Curtis and the other referees, or in any other way,

UNITED STATES v. GREAT FALLS MFG. CO. 653
Opinion of the Court.

and might pay for such information; but he had no power to
substitute their judgment for his own. The award, therefore,
if it can be called an award, did not bind the Secretary or,
consequently, the United States. No matter what its words
were, a subsequent positive assent thereto by the Secretary
was necessary to give it the force of an agreement. Ut Pes
magis valeat, the award in th-, case is to be read as being
merely information to the Secretary upon the question of
value. That this was indeed the actvial understanding of both
parties at the time of the delivery of the award, is suggested
by the very recent date of the amended claim.--Under the acts,
the decision of the Attorney-General upon the title was necessary, before the claimant could recover. The claim of the defendant in error proceeds upon the theory of a contract of purchase and sale. It is submitted that if this had been a contract
between private parties, the onus of producing and showing
valid title would rest upon the vendor, and therefore would
have to be alleged and proved in any suit depending upon the
existence of such title; and also thatin a suit for the price, an
actual delivery of title-deeds, or the doing of something equivalent to delivery (tender, or the like), is indispensable. Also,
that in conveyances to the United States, there is by statute
no equivalent for a title pronounced valid by the AttorneyGeneral; and, a circumstance which perhaps adds no legal
force to the above proposition, although otherwise it is impressive, these parties expressly recognized that principle. The
United States cannot be compelled to accept of an estate by
estoppel, whether by judgment or otherwise; supposing (what is
not admitted) that this record is competent to convey that.
They require and should have a title good againsi the world,
not merely against the claimant.
311,. Benjainhi, F. Butler.(31>. Charlee F Peck was with
him) for appellee.

M .. JusTicE IIARLAK delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The articles of agreement of Kovember 20, 1862. between

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the Secretary of the Interior and the Great Falls Manufacturing Company, made ample provision for the protection of the
public interests; for, the right was reserved to the party dissatisfied, to proceed by suit in equity in the proper court of
this District, for the purpose of having the award set aside or
changed, and of obtaining such a decree, subject to review by
this court, as was just and equitable. There is no doubt of the
good faith of the effort of the parties to accommodate their
differences, or that it was of the highest importance to the
government that the obstacles should be removed to the successful completion of the work, upon which large sums had
been expended. In the opinion of the court below, and in the
arguments of counsel, the authority of the Secretary of the
Interior to make the government a party to that agreement is
discussed. But, in the view we take, it is unnecessary to determine that question. Our decision may be satisfactorily placed
on other grounds.
I From the report and documents transmitted to Congress by
President Fillmore, it appears that, in the judgment of the Engineer Department, the best mode of supplying the cities of Washington and Georgetown with wholesome water, was by an aqueduct from the Great Falls of the Potomac; also, that such a plan
necessarily involved the construction of a dam at that point in
the river. Ex. Doc. (Senate) No. 48, pp. 2, 35, 48, 32d Cong.
2d Sess. By the annual report, under date of December 4,
1863, of Mr. Usher, Secretary of the Interior, Congress was
informed that "certain parties-having from time to time made
claim to heavy damages for the diversion of the water from
the Potomac River," his immediate predecessor, "with a view
to settle and end this claim, entered into an agreement of arbitration with the claimants." The parties referred to were the
present claimants, as appears by the agreement of arbitration,
by the official documents submitted to Congress, and by the
proceedings in the courts of Maryland for an assessment of the
damages which the proposed dam should cause to the Great
Falls Manufacturing Company. The Secretary said: "Pursuant to this agreement, the arbitrators met from time to time,
and finally submitted their award, by which they adjudged in

UNITED STATES v. GREAT FALLS MFG. CO.

655

Opinion of the Court.

favor of the claimants upon each and all of the plans and
modes submitted to them, being three [four] in number, for
the construction of the dam across the Potomac, and also
$12,000 for their own fees as arbitrators, and $761.84: for the
expenses of arbitration. The sums being large, I did not feel
justified in applying the existing appropriation for the completion of the aqueduct to the payment thereof, preferring to
submit the whole matter to Congress for its determination. It
appears from the report of the experienced engineer in charge
of the work, as must be obvious to every observer, that an
ample supply of water for the use of the cities of Washington
and Georgetown, for many years to come, can be obtained
from the Potomac by the erection of a tight darn, edtending
.from the 2.faryland shore to Conn8s bland, to a height which
will give a head of six feet in the aqueduct, and yield a daily
supply of 65,000,000 gallons," etc. After expressing the opinion that such a dam could not work injury to the proprietors
of the water rights claimed at the Great Falls, the Secretary
recommended that a reasonable sum be appropriated to pay
the expenses of the arbitration, and that the .cost previously
estimated of a dam across the main channel be diminished to
that of the proposed dam over the east channel.
In conformity with that recommendation, Congress, by the
act of July 4, 1864,made the appropriation of $150,000 for the
purpose of constructing the proposed dam of solid masonry,
and for paying the existing liabilities and the expenses connected with the engineering, superintendence, and repairs of
the aqueduct. Immediately thereafter a contract was made
for the 'construction of that dam. In his next annual report,
under date of December 5, 1864, the Secretary informed Congress that the work upon the dam and the aqueduct required
the expenditure of the additional sum of $51,945. For that
amount an appropriation was promptly made. With the Secretary's report was transmitted to Congress that of the engineer in charge, who stated that "the question of land damages
and water rights at the Great Falls still remains unsettled."
The dam was completed to its present height in 1867, and is
used as an indispensable part of the system by which the cities

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

of Washington and Georgetown have been supplied with water.
Beyond doubt, the land and the water rights and privileges in
question have for nearly twenty years been held and used by
officers 'and agents of the government, without any compensation whatever having been made therefor to the claimant. By
what authority have they appropriated to public use the property of the claimant ? The answer to this question will determine whether the present demand of the claimant arises out of
an implied contract, and, therefore, enforceable by suit against
the United States in the Court of Claims.
It seems clear that these property rights have been held and
used by the agents of the United States, under the sanction of
legislative enactments by Congress; for, the appropriation of
money specifically for the construction of the dam from the
Maryland shore to Conn's Island was, all the circumstances
considered, equivalent to an express direction by the legislative
and executive branches of the government to its officers to take
this particular property for the public objects contemplated by
the scheme for supplying the capital of the nation with wholesome water. The making of the improvements necessarily involves the taking of the property; and if, for the want of formal
proceedings for its condemnation to public use, the claimant was
entitled, at the beginning of the work, to have the agents of
the government enjoined from prosecuting it until provision
was made for securing, in some way, payment of the compensation required by the Constitution-upon which question we
express no opinion-there is no sound reason why the claimant
might not waive that right, and, electing to regard the action
of the government as a taking under its sovereign right
of eminent domain, demand just compensation. Kohl v.
rnited States, 91 U. S. 367, 374. In that view, we are of
opinion that the United States, having by its agents, proceeding under the authority of an act of Congress, taken the property of the claimant for public use, are under an obligation,
imposed by the Constitution, to make compensation. The law
will imply a promise to make the required compensation,
where property, to which the government asserts no title, is
taken, pursuant to an act of Congress, as private property to

UNITED STATES v. GREAT FALLS MFG. CO.

657

Opinion of the Court.
be applied for public uses. Such an implcation being consistent with the constitutional duty of the government, as well
as with common justice, the claimant's cause of action is one
that arises out of implied contract, within the meaning of the
statute which confers jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims of
actions founded "upon any contract, express or implied, with
the government of the United States."
This case is materially different from Lanaford v. United
States, 101 U. S. 341. That was an action in the Court of
Claims against the United States to recover for the use and
occupation of certain lands and buildings to which the claimant asserted title. It there appeared that, throughout the whole
period of such occupation and use, the title of the claimant
was disputed by the government, and that possession was
taken and held by its agents in virtue of a title asserted to be
in the United States. The jurisdiction of the Court of Claims
was attempted to be sustained upon the ground that the
government, in taking and using the property of an individual,
against his consent and by force, could not, under the relations
between it and the citizen, commit a tort, but was under an
implied obligation, created by the Constitution, to pay for the
property, or for the use of the property so taken. This proposition was held to be untenable under the facts of that case,
for the reason that, wbile individual officers of the government
might be guilty of a tort, if- the property so held by them was
in fact private property, yet, if the government never recognized
the property as private property, taken by its agents for public
use, it could not be held liable for its value as upon implied
contract. In the same case it was said: " Weare not prepared
to deny that when the government of the United States,
by such formal proceedings as are necessary to bind it,
takes for public use, as for an arsenal, custom-house, or fort,
land to which it asserts no claim of title, but admits the
ownership to be private or individual, there arises an implied
obligation to pay the owner its just value. It is to be regretted that Congress has made no provision by any general
law for ascertaining and paying this just compensation. And
we are not called on to decide that when the government,
VOL. cxii--42

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

acting by the forms which are sufficient to bind it, recognizes
the fact that it is taking prvate property for public use, the
compensation may not be recovered in the Court of Claims.
On this point we decide nothing."
The question thus reserved from decision is substantially the
one now presented. In the present case there were, it is true,
no statutory proceedings for the condemnation of the claimants property rights. Such proceedings, as has been stated,
were instituted by the United States in one of the courts of
Maryland, in which the property rights of the claimant were
expressly recognized. But they were abandoned. One reason,
perhaps, for such abandonment was that, in the judgment of
the officers of the United States, a fair assessment of damages
could not be had in the mode prescribed by the Maryland
statute. Be this as it may, it is clear, from the record, that
the government did not assert title in itself to this property,
at the time it was taken.
Having abandoned the proceedings of condemnation, the
proper officers of the government, in conformity with the
acts of Congress, constructed the darn from the Maryland
shore to Conn's Island, the doing of which necessarily involved the occupation and use of the property, as contemplated in w¢hat was called the fourth plan for bringing water
from the Great Falls to Washington and Georgetown. In
such a case, it is difficult to perceive why the legal obligation
of the United States to pay for what was thus taken pursuant to an act of Congress, is not quite as strong as it would
have been had formal proceedings for condemnation been resorted to for that purpose. If the claimant makes no objection
to the particular mode in which the property has been taken,
but substantially waives it, by asserting, as is done in the petition in this case, that the government took the property for
the public uses designated, we do not perceive that the court is
under any duty to make the objection in order to relieve the
United States from the obligation to make just compensation.
In reference to the title which the government will acquire,
as the result of this suit, there would seem to be no difficulty.
The finding of the court is that the claimant exhibited to the

TORRENT COMPANY v. RODGERS.
Statement of Facts.

arbitrators a valid title to the lands in question. It does not
appear that the company has ever parted with that title; and
the 'finding is that no title except that of the claimant is
asserted.
What has been said is sufficient to dispose of the case, and
m ord,red.
requires
Anr affrmtznce of thejudgment. It so

TORRENT ARMS LUMBER COMPAN-Y v. RODGERS.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Argued November 25, 1834.-Decided December 2, 1884.

A reissue of a patent, applied for with unreasonable delay, and for the purpose of enlarging the specification and claims, in order to include within the
monopoly an invention patented after the original patent was granted, is
void as to the new claims.

This was an action at law brought June 25, 1879, by Alexander Rodgers, the defendant in error, against The Torrent and
Arms Lumber Company, the plaintiff in error, to recover damages for the infringement of reissued letters patent for "a new
and improved machine for rolling saw-logs," dated July 15,
1873, granted to Rodgers as the assignee of Esau Tarrant, the
original patentee. The lumber company pleaded the general
issue, with notice that, among other things, it would give in
evidence, and insist in its defence, "that the said patentee and
his assignee, the plaintiff, unjustly obtained the reissued patent
for matters and principles embraced in such reissue not included
in the original patent or specification therefor, and for what was
in fact invented by another, to wit, John Torrent, of the city
of Muskegon, who was using reasonable diligence in adapting
and perfecting the same;" that John Torrent "made his application for a patent therefor on January 29, 1873, and his
patent was granted August 12, 1873, and the plaintiff and his
assignee had knowledge prior to the application for such reissue of the aforesaid application for patent by the said John

