OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

Ch. 125; Camp v. Coxe, 1 Dev. & Bat. (Law), 52; lThller v.
Tate, 4 B. Mon. 529; Powell v. William, 14 Ala. 476; Car.penterv. Bowe ,42 Mississippi, 28; Linnville v. Bell, 47 Ind.
547.
But whether this be the established rule or not, it requires no
authority to shoW that a sale of the mortgaged premises, upon
a judgment recovered on a part of the notes secured by the
mortgage, does nQt preclude the holder of other notes secured
by the same mortgage from proceeding to foreclose it. A sale
on such a judgment could only affect the equity of redemption,
and would leave the rights of the holder of other notes secured
by the mortgage unaffected.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court erred in dismissing
the bill.
5he deeree must therefore be reversed,and the causeremanded
for suchfwtrther proceedings in conformity with this opinion as the case may require.

MORRIS & Others, Executors, v. &MoILLIN& Others,Administrators.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT Or THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued November 5, 6,188i.-Deeided November 17, 1884.

The patent granted to John J. McMillin, April 16,1867, for an improvement in
applying steam power to the capstans of steamboats and other crafts, was,
in effect, for the application of the power of a steam engine to a vertical
capstan, by means of the same well-known agencies by which it had been
previously applied to a horizontal windlass: it did not involve the exercise
of invention, and is therefore invalid.
The late reported cases decided in this court, holding patents to be invalid for
want of invention, cited.

The bill was filed against the appellants to restrain the in'fringement of letters patent granted to John S. Mcmillin, one of
the appellees, dated April 16, 1867, for "a new and useful improvement in applying steam power to the capstans of steam-

MORRIS v. MoNILLIN.
Statement of Facts.

boats and other crafts." The invention as described generally
in the specification consisted "in connecting the capstan with
the freight-hoisting engine or other engine of steamboats by
means of shafts and cog wheels, so as to operate the capstan by
steam power instead of hand power, as has been generally used
heretofore."
The specification then proceeded:
"The following is the descriptive part of tho specification,
which will be readily understood by reference to the accompanying drawings, in which the same letters refer to like parts
in each:
A is the deck; A' the boiler deck; B the capstan; C the
hoisting engine; F the wooden framework of the engine; P
the engine shaft; FE the hoisting rollers, connected with engine shaft by the cog wheels a and b ; G is a vertical shaft extending from the hold of the boat to the cargo-wheel shaft g.
With the latter it is connected-the bevel wheels e d; IT is a
horizontal shaft in the hold of the boat at the middle bulkhead,
extending from the vertical shaft G to the capstan B. With
the former it is connected by the bevel wheels e,f,and with the
latter by the bevel wheels g A. The capstan is permanently
fastened to its shaft J. The vertical shaft G is so arranged
that it can be lifted or lowered by means of a set screw ,
whereby the bevel wheels c ( and ef can be set out or in gear
at leisure, interrupting or establishing the connection with the
engine. YK are the bearings of the shaft; i i are hooks,
which can be taken off and the cargo-wheel shaft lifted aside,
so that any of the hoisting rollers may be disengaged."
"The operation is as follows, viz.: When the engine is set in
motion the same is communicated by the described shafts and
wheels to the capstan. The line is thrown over the capstan as
usual, and one man to pay off the line and another to attend
the engine are all the hands necessary in the operation."
The claim was as follows:
" Rotating a capstan placed on deck of a boat by means of
an auxiliary engine, and capstan and engine are placed forward
of the steam boilers of said boat, substantially as hereinbefore
described and for the purposes set forth."

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.

246

Opinion of the Court.

rl

0

*qh

MORRIS v. MoMIILIN.
Opinion of the Court.

The first application for the patent sued on was filed July 23,
1855. Its claim was for "the application of the steam power
'of a hoisting or other engine of steamboats, or other crafts, to
the capstan, by communicating the power of the engine to the
capstan by means of the shafts G and H, and the bevel wheels
q, d, e,f,g, ht, or by any other means." This application was
rejected.

On February 7, 1856, the application was amended

by striking out the claim originally made and substituting the
following: "I do not claim the application of steam power to
the capstan as a principle, but what I do claim is: the arrangement and combination of machinery employed to communicate
rotary motion to the capstan from the hoisting or other engine
of steamboats and other crafts, namely, the shafts G and H,
and the bevel wheels e, d, e,f, g, and A," &c. This amended
application was also rejected, and no change therein was made
until February 4, 1867, when it was stricken out, and the claim
of the patent sued on was substituted by way of amendment.
During all this time the drawings and specifications of the first
application remained unchanged, and are embodied in the letters
patent.
One of the defences relied on by the appellants to defeat the
patent was that it was invalid for want of novelty and patentability. Upon final hearing the Circuit Court rendered a decree for the complainants, and the defendants appealed.
.,.

Rowland Cox for appellants.

-M. IF. Baewell gnd

r. G. H Cr4sty for appellees.

ALR. JUSTrcE WOODs delivered the opinion of the court.
He
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
We are of opinion that the patent is open to the fatal objection that the device covered thereby did not, in view of the
state of the ait, involve the exercise of invention, and was therefore not patentable.
The simply wdrking of a capstan by means of steam is not
claimed, but, in the amended specification filed February 7,
1856, is expressly disclaimed. The capstan and the auxiliary

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

engine are both old, the device, consisting in an arrangement
of shafts and cog wheels by which the power of the engine is
applied to the capstan, was, as averred in the answer, in common public use in flour and grist mills, and cotton and woollen
factories, long prior to the alleged invention of McMillin. The
testimony shows that both capstans and auxiliary engines have
been commonly placed forward of the boilers of the boat, and
that, as early as the year 1847, an auxiliary engine had been
used for rotating a windlass, both the engine and the windlass
being forward of the boilers.
In view of these facts, which are either matters of common
khowledge or well established by the evidente, the only field
of invention left for the patent to cover was the application, by
the old and familiar arrangement of shafts and cog wheels, of
the power of an auxiliary engine to a capstan instead of a windlass. A capstan differs from a windlass in this respect only,
that its barrel or shaft is vertical, while that of the windlass is
usually horizontal. It is lain, therefore, that no such ingenuity as merited the issue of a patent was required for-this improvement, but only the ordinary judgment and skill of a trained
mechanic.
The following cases illustrate the grounds upon which we
base this conclusion:
It was said by Mgr. Justice Bradley, in delivering the judgment of this court in Atlantic TWorks v. Brady, 107 U. S. 192:
"The process of development in manufactures creates a constant demand for new appliances which the skill of ordinary
head workmen and engineers is generally adequate to devise,
and which, indeed, are the natural and proper outgrowth of
such development. Each step forward .prepares the way for
the next, and each is usually taken by spontaneous trials and
attempts in a hundred different directions. To grant to a single
party a monopoly of every slight advance made, except where
the exercise of invention somewhat above ordinary mechanical
or engineering skill is distinctly shown, is unjust in principle
and injurious in its consequences."
In Pennsylvania Railroad v. Locomotive Truck- Co., 110
U. S. 490, Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the court, declared

MORRIS b. McMILLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

it to be the result of the decisions of the court that "the application of an old process or machine to a similar or analogous
subject, with no change in the manner of application and no
result substantially distinct in its nature, will not sustain a patent, even if the new form of result has not been before contemplated."
In Hailes v. Tan TFarrnoer,20 Wall. 353, where the patentee
had taken a fire-pot from one stove, a flue from another, and a;
coal reservoir from the third, and had put them ifto a new
stove, where each fulfilled the office it had fulfilled in its old
situation, and nothing more, the patent was held void for want
of invention.
In the case of Pillivs v. .Detroit,]11 U. S. 604, the patentsued on was for an improvement in street and other highway
pavements. The improvement consisted in using round blocks
of wood, formed of the sections of small trees, set vertically
upon a foundation of- sand or gravel, and filling the spaces between the blocks with sand or gravel. The court said that the
use of blocks, such as were described, set vertically, was old,
that the foundation was old,-and the use of filling between the
blocks was old, and that the"only thing left for the patent tp
cover was the bringing together, in the construction of a pavement, of these three old and well-known elements; and held
that this did not require invention, and that the patent was
void. See also Hotchkiss v. G'teenwood, 11 How. 248; Phillips v. Page, 24 How. 164; Smith v. Yfichols, 21 Wall. 112;
Dunar v. Nlyers, 94 U. S. 187; ileald v. Rice, 104: U. S. T,37,
754-56.
Upon the ground stated, we think the letters patent upon
which this suit is based are void. The decree of the Circuit
Court, by which the patent was sustained, must therefore be
reversed, and
The cause remanded with directione to dismiss the bill; and
it is so ordered.

