CHICAGO & MILWAUKEE RAILROAD v. ROSS. 37
Statement of Facts.
sale is directly involved, as we are informed by counsel, in
distinct suit upon our docket, not yet reached.
The decree mudt be reversed, and the cause remanded, with
directions to the court below to set aside the decree from
which this appeal is prosecuted, and to order the sale, in
satisfaction of the complainants' demands, and in such
,mode as may be consistent with the practice of the court
and with law, qf lot 7 outside of the part upon which the
building known as the Palace .farket stands.

CHICAGO,

MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL
COMPANY v. ROSS.

RAILWAY

IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Argued April 14, 1834.-Decided December 8, 14.

A railroad corporation is responsible to its train servants and employ6s for
injuries received by them in consequence of neglect of duty by a train con-

ductor in charge of the train, with the right to command its movements,
and control the persons employed upon it.
A conductor of a railroad train, who has the right to command the movements
of the train and to control the persons employed upon it, represents the
company while performing those duties, and does not bear the relation of
fellow-servant to the engineer and other employ~s of the corporation on the
train.

This was an action brought by a locomotive engineer, in the
employ of the plaintiff in error, defendant below, to recover
damages for injuries received in a collision which was caused
by the negligence of the conductor of the traifi. The facts
and circunstances connected with the injury are set forth in
the opinion of the court. At the trial below, several questions
arose whose determination by the c'ourt below was assigned as
error and which were argued here. For the purposes of the
opinion it is only necessary to notice the two following portions of the charge to the jury, each of which was excepted
to:

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

(1) "It is very clear, I think, that if the company sees fit to
place one of its employ6s under the control and direction of
another, that then the two are not fellow-servants engaged in
the same common employment, within the meaning of the
rule of law of which I am speaking." ,
(2) "By this general order, gentlemen, as I understand and
construe it, the company made the engineer, in an important
sense, subordinate to the conductor."
The order r~ferred to in the second clause was as follows:
"Conductors must, in all cases, while running by tel9graph or
special orders, show the same to the engineers of their trains
before leaving stations where the orders are received. The engineer must read and understand the order before leaving the
station.l3
Judgment for plaintiff, to reverse which the defendant, as
plaintiff in error, sued out this writ.
.21r. John W. Cary for plaintiff in error.-The court erred in
charging the jury that the plaintiff and the conductor were not
fellow-servants or co-employ4s engaged in the same general
business. This charge was prior to the decision of this court
in Randall v. Baltimore &, Ohio Railroad,109 U. S. 478, and
is in direct conflict with it. That wa§ an action by a brakeman for an injury received through the alleged negligence of
the engineer of another train of the same company.. The
court say: "1Nor is it necessary, for the purposes of this case,
to undertake to lay down a precise and exhaustive definition
of the general rule in this respect, or to .weigh the conflicting
views which have prevailed in the courts of the several States;,
because persons standing in such a relation to one another as
did this plaintiff and the engineman of the other train, are
fellow-servants, according to the very great preponderance of
judicial authority in this country, as well as the uniform course
of decision in the House of Lords, and in the English and Irish
courts.

.

.

They are employed and paid by tie same master.

The duties of.the two bring them to work at the same place
at the same time, so that the negligence of one in doing his
.work may injure the other in doing his work. Their separate

CHICAGO & MILWAUKEE RAILROAD v. ROSS. 379
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.
services have an immediate common object, the moving of
trains." The rule now established in England, and generally
in this country, is, that the term "fellow-servant" includes all
who serve the same master, work under the same control, derive authority and compensation from the same source, and are
engaged in the same general business, though it may be in
different grades and departments of it.
fonder v. Baltimore
& Ohio Railroad (o., 32 Maryland, 411 ; Wilson v. .Merery, L.
R. 1 H. L. Sc. 326; Columbus & indanapolis Railroad v.
Arnold, 31 Ind. 174; TWarner v. E'ie Railway Co., 39 N. Y.
468; Hard v. Vt. & CanadaRailroad,32 Vt. 473, 480. The
fact that the injured servant was subordinate to the negligent
servant, and under his control, makes-no difference. Wharton,
Law of Negligence, § 229; Wood, Mastei and Servant, § 437;
Cooley on Torts, 543-4; Sherman & Redfield on Negligence,
§ 100. It is true that the States of Ohio and Kentucky seem
not to have followed this rule; but the general current of authorities, both in this country and in England, is as above
stated. We cite the following from the great mass of authorities on the subject: Zaning v. Y Y. C.
B..P.Co., 49 N. Y.
521, 528; .LYalone v. Hathaway, 64 N. Y. 5, 8; Crismm v.
Babbitt, 81 N. Y. 516; Lawler v. Androscoggin R. R. Co., 62
Me. 463; Blake v. laine Central R. R. Co., 70 Me. 60; Lehigh Valley Coal Co. v. Jones, 86 Penn. St. 432; Brown v. WFinona & St. Peter R. R. Co., 27 Minn. 162; Petersonv. Coal &
.fining Co., 50 Iowa, 673 ; Vilson v. .3-erry,above cited. The
cases of S1ater v. Jewell, 85 N. Y. 61; Robertson v. Terre
Haute, &c., Railroad,78 Ind. 77 ; and Chicago, St. 1. & 1Y.
0. Railroad v. Doyle, 8 Am. & Eng. R. iR. Cases, 171, are especially in point. See also Xick. Cent. P. P. v. Smithson,
45 Mich. 212; Clark v. St. Paul & Sioux City R. P.,
28 Minn. 128; Ladd v. NTew Bedford R. R., 119 Mass.
412; and -Naylor v. Chicago & .5. IF. Rail'road,53 Wise.
661. In the latter case the court say: "Hence, if the servant, knowing the hazards of his employment as the business is conducted, is injured while employed in such business,
he cannot maintain an action against the master for such injury, merely because he may be able to show that there was a

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

safer mode in which the business might have been conducted,
and that had it been conducted in that mode he would not
have been injured."
-Yr. Enock Totten for defendant in error.
Mr.. JUSTIOE FrELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in the court below is a citizen of Minnesota, and
'by occupation an engineer on a railway train. The defendant
in the court below, the plaintiff in error here, is a railway corporation created under the laws of Wisconsin. This action is
brought to recover damages for injuries which the plaintiff sustained whilst engineer of a freight train by a collision with a
gravel train on the 6th of November, 1880. Both trains belonged to the company, and for' some years he had been employed as such engineer on its roads. On that day he was in
charge of the engine of a regular freight train which left Minneapolis at a quarter past one in the morning, its iegular
schedule time, and had the right of the road over gravel trains,
except when otherwise ordered. At the time of the collision,
one McOlintock was the conductor of the train, and had the
entire charge of running it. It was his duty under the regulations of the company to show to the engineer all orders which
he received with respect to the movements of the train. The
regulations in this respect were as follows: "Conductors must
in all cases, when running by telegraph and special orders, show
the same to the engineer of their train before leaving stations
where the orders are received. The engineer must read and
understand the order before leaving the station. The conductor will have charge and control of the train, and of all persons
employed on it, and is responsible for its movements while on
the road, except when his directions conflict with these regulations, or involve any risk or hazard, in which case the engineer
will also be held responsible."
When the freight train left Minneapolis on the morning of
November 6, 1880, there was coming toward that city from.
Fort Snell: g, by order of the company, over the same road, a
gravel train, termed in the complaint -a wild train, that is, a

CHICAGO & MILWAUKEE RAILROAD v. ROSS. 381
Opinion of the Court.

train not running on schedule time any regular trips. The
conductor, McClintock, was informed by telegram from the
train dispatcher of the coming of this gravel train, and ordered
to hold the freight train at South Minneapolis until the gravel
train arrived. South Minneapolis is between Minneap6lis and
the place where the collision occurred. The gravel train hadbeen engaged for a week before in hauling in the night gravel
to Minneapolis from a pit near Mendota, for the construction
by the company of a new and separate line of railroad between
St. Paul and Minneapolis, and the freight train had, during this
time, been stopped by the conductor, on orders of the train dispatcher, upon side tracks between Minneapolis and St. Paul
Junction, for the passage of the gravel train. But on the night
of November 6, 1880, he neglected to deliver to the plaintiff
the order he had received, and after the train started he went
into the caboose and there fell asleep. The .freight train of
course did not stop at the station designatedy but continuing at
a speed of fifteen miles an hou, entered a deep and narrow cut
300 feet in length, through which the road pqssed at a considerable curve, and on a down grade, when the plaintiff- saw on
the bank a reflection of the light from the engine of the gravel
train, which was approaching from the opposite direction at a
speed of five or six miles an hour, and was then within about one
hundred feet. He at once whistled for brakes and reversed his
engine, but a collision almost immediately followed, destroying
the engines, damaging the cars of the'two trains, causing the
death of one person, and iaxiicting upon the plaintiff severe and.
permanent injurids, for which he brings this action.
On the trial the conductor of the gra'el train testified that
at the time of the collision he was under orders to run to South
Minneapolis regardless of the plaintiff's train; that having
twelve cars loaded with gravel, his train stalled before reaching the cut where the collision happened; that he then separated his train in the middle, took six cars to Minnehaha Station,
went back -with the engine for the other six cars, and was coming with them through the cut when. the collision occurred;
that the gravel train had run in the night about a week, and'
that when he could reach Minneapolis before the starting time

OCTOBER TERN. 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

of plaintiff's train he ran without orders, otherwise upon orders,
and had met or passed plaintiffs train at the same place about
every night during the week.
It is evident from this brief statement that the conductor on
each train was guilty of gross negligence. The conductor of
the freight train was not only required by the general duty
devolving on him, as one controlling its m6vements, to give to
its engineer such orders as would enable him to avoid collision
with other cars, but as we have seen, he was expressly directed
by the regulations of the company, when running by telegraph
or special orders, to communicate them to him. Had these
regulations been complied with, the collision would have been
avoided. The conductor of the gravel train allowed it to be
so overloaded' that its engine was incapable of moving it at
one portion of the road before reaching the cut; and when, in
consequence, he was obliged to leave half of his cars on the
track while he took the others to Minnehaha, he omitted to
send forward information of the delay or to put out signals of
danger. Having, for the week previous, passed the freight
train at nearly the same place on the road, he must have
known that by the delay there was danger of collision. Ordinary prudence, therefore, would have dictated the sending
forward of information of his position or the putting out. of
danger signals. Had he done either of these things the collision would not have occurred.
The collision having been caused by the gross negligence of
the conductors, the question arises whether the company is
responsible to the plaintiff for the injuries which that collision
inflicted upon him.
The general liability of a railroad company for injuries,
caused by the negligence of its servants, to passengers and
others not in its service is conceded. It covers all injuries to
which they do not contribute. But where injuries befall a
servant in'its employ, a different principle applies. Having
been engaged for the performance-of specified services, he takes
upon himself the ordinary risks incident thereto. As a consequence, if he suffers by exposure to them, he cannot recover
compensation from his employer. The obvious reason for this

CHICAGO & MILWAUKEE RAILROAD v. ROSS. 383
Opinion of the Court.
exemption is, that he has, or, in law, is supposed to have them
in contemplation when he engages in the service, -and that his
compensation is arranged accordingly. He cannot, in reason,
complain if he suffers from a risk which he has voluntarily assumed, and for the assumption of which he is paid. There is
also another reason often assigned for this exemption-that of
a supposed public policy. It is assumed that the exemption
operates as a stimulant to diligence and caution on the part of
the servant for his own safety as well as that of his master.
:Much potency is ascribed to this assumed fact by reference to
those cases where diligence and caution on the part of servants
constitute the chief protection against accidents. But it may
be doubted whether the exemption has the effect thus claimed
for it. We have never known parties more willing to subject
themselves to dangers of life or limb because, if losing the one,
or suffering in the other, damages could be recovered by their
representatives or themselves for the loss or inJury. The dread
of personal injury has always proved sufficient to bring into
exercise the vigilance and activity of the servant.
But however this may be, it is indispensable to the employer's exemption from liability to his servant for the consequences of risks thus incurred, that he should himself be free
from negligence. He must furnish the servant the means andappliances which the service requires for its efficient and safe
performance, unless otherwise stipulated; and if he fail in that
respect, and an injury result, he is as liable to the servant as he
would be to a stranger. In other words, whilst claiming such
exemption he must not himself be guilty of contributory
negligence.
When the service to be rendered requires for its performance
the employment of several persons, as in the movement of railway trains, there is necessarily incident to the service of each
the risk that the others may fail in the vigilance and caution
essential to his safety. And it has been held in numerous
cases, both in this country and in England, that there is implied in his contract of service in such cases, that he takes
upon himself risks arising from the negligence of his fellowservants, while in the same employment, provided always the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

master is not negligent in their selection or retention, or in
furnishing adequate materials and means for the work; and
that if injuries then befall him from such negligence, the master
is not liable. The doctrine was first announced in this country
by the Supreme Court of South Carolina in 18411, in Murray
v. S. C.Railroad Co., 1 Mculan, 385, and was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of Massachusetts the following year in Farwell
v. Boston and Woreester Railroad Co., 4 Met. 49. In the
South Carolina case a fireman, whilst in the employ of the
company, was injured by the negligence of an engineer also in
its employ, and it was held that the company was not liable,
the court observing that the engineer no more represented the
company than the fireman; that each in his separate department represented his principal; that the regular movement of
the train of cars to its destination was the result of the ordinary performance by each of his several duties; and that it
seemed to be on the part of the several agents a joint undertaking where each one stipulated for the performance of his
several part; that they were not liable to the company for the
conduct of each other, nor was the company liable to one for
the conduct of another, and that as a general rule, when there
was no fault in the owner, he was only liable to his servants
for wages.
. In the Massachusetts case, an engineer employed by a railroad company to run a train on its road was injured by the'
negligence of a switch-tender also in its employ, and itwas held
that the company was not liable. The court placed the exemption of the company, not on the ground of the South Carolina decision, that there was a joint'undertaking by the fellowservants, but on the ground that the contract-of the engineer
implied that he would take upon himself the risks attending its
performance, that those included the injuries which might befall him from the negligence of fellow-servants in the same
employment, and that the switch-tender stood in that relation
to him. And the court added, that the exemption of the master was supported by considerations of policy. "Where several
persons," it said, "are employed in the conduct of one common
enterprise or undertaking, and the safety of each depends on

CHICAGO &

hWII
AT-KEE RAILROAD v. ROSS. 385
Opinion of the Court.

the care and skill with which each other shall perform his
appropriate duty, each is an observer of the conduct of the
others, can give notice of any misconduct, incapacity or neglect of duty, and leave the service, if the common employer
will not take such precautions and employ such agents as the,
safety of the whole party may require. By these means the
safety of each will be much more effectually secured than
could be done by a resort to the common employer for indemnity in case of loss by the negligence of each other." And to
the argument, which was strongly pressed, that though the
rule. might apply where two or more servants are employed in
the same department of duty, where each one can exert some
influence over the conduct of the other, and thus, to some extent, provide for his own security, yet, that it could not apply
where two or more are employed in different departments'of
duty, at , distance from each other, and where one can in no
degree control or influence the conduct of another, it answered,
that the objection was founded upon a supposed distinction, on
which it would be extremely difficult to establish a practical
rule; "When the object to be accomplished," it said, "is one
and the same, when the employers are the same, and the several persons employed derive their authority and their compensation from the same source, it would be extremely difficult,
to distinguish what constitutes one department and what a
distinct department of duty. It would vary with the circumstances of every case." And it added, "that the argument
rests upon an assumed principle of responsibility which does
not exist. The master, in the case supposed, is not exempt
from liability because the servant has better means of providing for his safety, when he is employed in immediate connection with those from whose negligence he might suffer, but
because the irplied contract of the master does not extend to
indemnify the servant against the negligence of any one but
himself; and he is not liable in tort, as for the negligence of
his servant, because the person suffering does not stand towards
him in the relation of a stranger, but is one whose rights are
regulated by contract, express or implied." 4 Met. 59, 60.
The opinion in this case, which was delivered by Chief JusVOL. cxf-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tice Shaw, has exerted great influence in controlling the course
of decisions in this country. In several States it has been followed, and the English courts have cited it with marked commendation.
The doctrine of the master's exemption from liability was
first. distinctly announced in England in 1850 by the Court of
Exchequer in .uutchinson v. York, lewcastle & Berwick
Railway Co., 5 Exch. IR.343. Priestley v. Foster,3 A. & W. 1,
which was decided in 1837, and is often cited as the first case
declaring the doctrine, did not directly involve the question as
to the liability of a master to a servant for the negligence of a
fellow-servant. In that case a van of the defendant in which
the plaintiff was carried was out of repair and overloaded and
consequently broke down, and caused the injury complained
of; but it did not appear what produced the defect in the van
or by whom it was overloaded. The court in giving its decision against the plaintiff observed that if the master was liable,
the principle of that liability would "carry us to an alarming
extent;" and in illustration of this statement said that if the
owner of a carriage was responsible for its sufficiency to the
servant, he was, under the principle, responsible for the negligence of his coach-maker or 'harness-maker or coachman, and
mentioned other instances of such possible responsibility to a
servant for the negligence of his fellows, concluding that the
inconvenience of such consequences afforded- a sufficient argument against the application of the principle to that case. The
case, therefore, can only be considered -as indirectly asserting
the doctrine. At'any rate, the Hutchinson case is the first one
where the doctrine was applied to railway service. There it
appeared that a servant of the company who, in the discharge
of his duty, was riding on one of its trains, was injured by a
collision with another train of the same company, from which
his death ensued; and it was held that his representatives could
not recover, as he was a fellow-servant with those who caused
the injury; and the court said that whether the death resulted
from the mismanagement of the one train or the other, or of
both, did not affect the principle. The rule was applied at the
same time by that court to exempt a master builder from lia-

CHICAGO & MILWAUKEE RAILROAD v. ROSS. 387
Opinion of the Conrt.

bility for the death of a bricklayer in his employ caused by the
defective construction of a scaffolding by his other workmen,
by reason of which it broke and the bricklayer at work upon
it was thrown to the ground and killed. Wigmore v. Jay, 5
Exch. 354.
The doctrine assumes that the servant causing the injury is
in the same employment with the servant injured, that is, that
both are engaged in a common employment. The question in
all cases therefore is, what is essential to render the service in
which different persons are engaged a common employment?
And this question has caused miuch conflict of opinion between
different courts, and often much vacillation of opinion in the
same court.
In Barton.mhl Coal Co. v. Reid, and the Same Comany v.
.3foGuire, reported in 3d Alacqueen H. L. Cases, 266, decided
in 1858, the parties injured were miners employed to work in
a coal pit, and the party, whose negligence caused the injury,
was employed to attend to the engine by which they were let
down into the mine and brought out, and the coal was raised
which they had dug; and it was held that they were engaged
in a common work, that of getting coal from the pit. "The
miners," said the court in the latter case, "could not perform
their part unless they were lowered to their work, nor could
the end of their common labor be attained unless the coal
which they got was raised to the pit's mouth, and of course at
the close of their day's labor the workmen must be lifted out
of the mine. Every person who engaged in such an employment must have been perfectly aware that all this was incident
to it, and that the service was necessarily accompanied with
the danger that the person entrusted with the machinery mighiy
be occasionally negligent and fail in his duty." Lord Chancellor Chelmsford, who gave the principal opinion in the latter
case, referred to previous cases in which the master's exemption
from liability had been sustained, and said: "In the consideration of these cases it did not become necessary to define with
any great precision what was meant by the words 'common
service' or 'common employment,' and perhaps it might be
difficult beforehand to suggest any exact definition of them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

It is necessary, however, in each particular case to ascertain
whether the servants are fellow-laborers -in the same work,
because, although a servant may be taken to have engaged to
encounter all risks which are incident to the service which he
undertakes, yet he cannot be expected to anticipate those which
may happen to him on occasions foreign to his employment.
Where servants, therefore, are engaged in different departments of duty, an injury committed by one servant upon another, by carelessness or negligence in the course of his peculiar
work, is not within the e emption, and the master's liability
attaches in that case in the same manner as if the injured servants stood in no such relation to him." The Lord Chancellor
also commented upon some decisions of the Scotch courts, and
among others that of Ifcllaugkhtor v. The Caledonian Railway Co., 19 Court of Sess. Cases, 271, and said that it might
be "sustained without conflicting with the English authorities,
dn the ground that the workmen in that case were engaged in
totally different departments of work; the deceased being a
joiner or carpenter, who, at the time of the accident, was engaged in repairing a railway carriage, and the persons by whose
negligence his death was occasioned, were the engine driver
and the persons who arranged the switches." And in the
same case ILord Brougham, after, mentioning 'the observations
of a judge of the Scottish courts that an absolute and inflexible rule releasing- the master from responsibility in every case
where one servant is injured by the fault of another was utterly
unknown to the law of Scotland, said that it was also utterly
unknown to the law of England, and added: "To bring the
c.,e within the exemption there must be thic most material
qualification, that the two servants must be men in the same
common employment, and engaged in the same common work
under that common employment."
Later decisions in the English courts extend the master's exemption from liability to cases where the servant injured is
working under the direction of a foreman or superintendent,
the grade of service of the latter not being deemed to change
the relation of the two as fellow-servants. Thus, in WilVnov.
WI-ty, L. IR. 1 H. L. Sc. 326, decided by the House of Lords

CHICAGO &- MILWAUKEE RAILROAD v. ROSS. 389
Opinion of the Court.
in 1868 on appeal from the Court of Sessions of Scotland, the
sub-manager of a coal pit, whose negligence in erecting a
scaffold which obstructed the circulation of air underneath,
and led to an accumulation of fire-damp that exploded and injured a workman in the mine, was held to be a fellow-servant
with the injured party. And the court laid down the rule
that the master was not liable to his servant unless there was
ngligence on the master's part in that which he had contracted
with the servant to do, and that the master, if- not personally
superintending the work, was only bound.to select proper and
competent persons to do so, and furnish them with adequate
materials and resources for the work; that when he had done
this he had done all that he was required to do, and if the persons thus selected were guilty of negligence, it was not his
negligence, and he was not responsible for the consequences. In this case, as in many qthers in the English courts, the
foreman, manager or superintendent of the work, by whose
negligence the injury was committed, was himself also a workman with the other laborers, although exercising a direction
over the work. The reasoning of that case has been applied
so as to include, as contended here, employvs of a corporation
in departments separated from each other; and it must be admitted that the terms" ' common employment," under late decisions in England, and the decisions in this country following
the Massachusetts case, are of very comprehensive import.
It is difficult to limit them so as to say that any persons employed
by a railway company, whose labors may facilitate the running of its trains, are not fellow-servants, however wdely separated may be their labors. See Holden v. Fitcliburgt Railroad Co., 129 Mass. 268.
But notwithstanding the number and weight of such decisions,
there are, in this country, many adjudications of courts of great
learning restricting the exemption to cases where the fellow-ser.
vants are engaged in the same department, and act under the
same immediate direction ; and holding that, within the reason
and urinciple of the doctrine, only such servants can be-considered as engaged in the same common employment. It is not, howeyer, essential to the decision of the preeAt controversy to lay

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

down a rule which will determine, in all cases, what is to be
deemed such an employment, even if it were possible to do so.
There is, in our judgment, a clear distinction to be made in
their relation to their common principal, between servants of a
corporation, exercising no supervision over others engaged with
them in the same employment, and agents of the corporation,
clothed with the control and management of a distinct department, in which their duty is entirely that of direction and
superintendence. A conductor, having the entire control and
management of a railway train, occupies a very different position from the brakemen, the porters, and other subordinates
employed. He is in fact, and should be treated as, the personal
representative of the corporation, for whose negligence it is
responsible to subordinate servants. This view of his relation
to the corporation seems to us a reasonable and just one, and it
will insure more care in the selection of such agents, and thus
give greater security to the servants engaged under him
in an employment requiring the utmost vigilance on their
part, and prompt and unhesitating obedience to his orders.
.The rule which applies to such agents of one railway corporation muisi apply to all, and rhany corporations operate everyday several trains over hundreds of miles at great'distances
apart, each being under the control and direction of a conductor specially, appointed for its management. We know
from the manner in which railways are operated that, subject
to the general rules and orders of the directors of the companies., the conductor has entire control and management of the
train to which he is assigned. ie directs when it shall start,
at what speed it shall run, at what stations it shall stop, and
for what length of time, and everything essential to its successful movements, and all persons employed on it are subject
to his orders. In no proper sense of the terms is he a fellowservant with the firemen, the brakemen, the porters and the
engineer. The latter are fellow-servants in the running of the
train under his direction; as to them and the train, he stands
in the place of and represents the corporation. As observed
by Mr. Wharton in his valuable treatise on the Law, of Negligence: "It has sometimes been said that a corporation is

CHICAGO & MILWAUKEE RAILROAD v. ROSS. 391
Opinion of the Court.

obliged to act always by servants, and that it is unjust to impute to it personal negligence in cases where it is impossible
for it to be negligent personally. But if this be true it would
relieve corporations from all liability to servants. The true
view is, that, as corporations can act only through superintending officers, the negligences of those officers, with respect to
other servants, are the negligences of the corporation." § 232
a. The author, in a note, refers to Brickner' v. -Vew York
Cen t'al Railroad Co., 2 Lansing, 506, decided in the Supreme
Court of New York, and afterwards confirmed in the Court of
Appeals, 49 N. Y. 672; and to Malne v. Hathaway, 64 N. Y.
5, decided in the latter court, in which opinions are expressed
in conformity with his views. These opinions are not, it is
true, authoritative, for they do not cover the precise points in
judgment; but were rather expressed to distinguish the questions thus arising from those then before the court. They in
dicate, however, a disposition to engraft a limitation upon the
general doctrine as to the master's exemption from liability to
his servants for the negligence of their fellows, when a corporation is the principal, and acts through superintending agents.
Thus, in the first case, the court said: "A corporation cannot
act personally. Tt reqaires some person to superintend structures, to purchase and control the running of cars, to employ
and discharge men, and provide all needful appliances. This
can only be done by agents. When the directors themselves
personally act as such agents, they are the representatives of
the corporations. :r7ey are then the executive head or master.
Their acts are the acts of the corporation. The duties above
described are the duties of the corporation. When these directors appoint some person other than themselves to superintend and perform all these executive duties for them, then such
appointee, equally with themselves, represents the corporation
as master in all those respects. i -ndthough, in the performance of these executive duties, he ihay be, and is, a servant of
the corporation, he is not in those respects a co-servant, a colaborer, a co-employe, in the common acceptation of those
terms, any more than is a director who exercises the same authority." Page 516.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

And in .Afalone v. -latltaway, in the Court of Appeals,
Judge Allen says: "Corporations necessarily acting by and
through agents, those having the superintendence of various
departments, with delegated authority to employ and discharge
laborers and employgs, provide materials and machinery for
the service of the corporation, and generally direct and control under general powers and instructions from the directors,
may well be regarded as the representatives of the corporation, charged with the performance of its duty, exercising the
discretion ordinarily exercised by principals, and, within" the
lmits of the delegated authority, the acting principal. These
acts are in such case, the acts of the corporation, for which and
for whose neglect the corporation, within adjudged cases, must
respond, as well to the other servants of the company as to
strangers. They are treated as the general agents of the corporation in the several departments committed to their care.'?
64: N. Y. 5, 12. See also Corcoran v. Holbrook, 59 N. Y.
517.
In Li?Te .-3iami Railroad Co. v. Stevens, 20 Ohio, 415,
the Supreme Court of Ohio held that where a railroad company placed the engineer in its employ under the control of a
conductor of its train, who directed when the cars were to start,
and when to stop, it was liable for an injury received by him
caused by the negligence of the conductor. There a collision
between two trains occurred in consequence of the omission of
the conductor to inform the engineer of a change of places in
the passing of trains ordered by the company. Exemption
from liability was claimed on the ground that the engineer and
conductor were fellow-servants, and that the engineer bad in
consequence taken, by his contract of service, the risk of the
negligence of the conductor; and, also, that public policy forbade a recovery in such cases. But the court rejected both
positions. To the latter it *ery pertinently observed, that it
was only when the servant had hhself been careful that any
right of action could accrue to him, and that it was not likely
that any would be careless of their lives and persons or
property merely because they might have a right of action to
recover for injuries received. -"If men are influenced," said

CHICAGO & MILWAUKEE RAILROAD v. ROSS. 393
Opinion of the, Court.
the court, "by such remote considerations to be careless of
what they are likely to be most careful about, it has never
come under our .observation. We think the policy is clearly
on the other side. It is a matter of universal observation that,
in any extensive business where many persons are employed,
the care and prudence of the employer is the surest guarantee
against mismanagement ,of any kind." In Railway Co. v.
.Kear'y, 3 Ohio St. 201, the same court affirmed the doctrine
thus announced, and decided that when a brakeman in the employ of a railroad company, on a train under the control of a
conductor having exclusive command, was injured by the carelessness of the conductor, the company was responsible, holding
that the conductor in such case was the sole and immediate
representative of the company upon which rested'the obligation
to manage the train with skill and care. In the course of an
elaborate opinion the court said that from the very nature of
the contract of service between the company and the employes, the company was under obligation to them to superintend and control wvith skill and care the dangerous force
employed, upon which their safety so essentially depended.
"For this purpose," said the court, "the conductor is Omployed, and in this he directly represents the company. They
contract for and engage his care and skill. They commission
him to exercise that dominion over the operations of the train
which essentially pertains to the prerogatives of the owner; and
in its exercise be stands in the place of the owner, and is in the
discharge of a duty which the owner, as a man, and a party to
the contract of service, owes to. those placed under him, and
whose lives may depend on his fidelity. His will alone controls everything, and it is the will of the owner that his intelligence alone should be trusted for this purpose. This service is
not common to him and. the hands plced under him. They
have nothing to do with it. His duties and their duties are
entirely separate and distinct, although both necessary ioproduce the result. It is his -o command, and theirs to obey and
execute. No service is common that does not 'admit a common
participation, and no servants are fellow-servants when one is
placed in control over the other."

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

In Louisville & fN'ashville .Raiboad Co. v. Collins, 2
Duvall, 114, the subject was elaborately considered by the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky. And it held, that in all those
operations which require care, vigilance and skill, and which
are performed through the instrumentality of superintending
yet
agents, the invisible corporation, though never actually, is.
always constructively present through its agents who represent
it, and whose acts within their representative spheres are its
acts; that the rule of English courts, that the company is not
responsible to one of its servants for an injury inflicted from
the neglect of a fellow-servant, was not adopted to its full extent
in that State, and was regarded there as anomalous, inconsistent with principle and public policy, and unsupported by
any good and consistent reason. In commenting upon this
decision in his Treatise on the Law of Railways, Redfield
speaks with emphatic approval of the declaration that the
corporation is to be regarded as constructively present in all
acts performed by its general agents within the scope of their
authority. "The consequences of mistake or misapprehension
upon this point," says the author, "have led many courts into
conclusions greatly at variance with the common instincts of
reason and humanity, and have tended to interpose an unwarrantable shield between the conduct of railway employes
and the just responsibility of the company. We trust that the
reasonableness and justice of this construction will at no distant
day induce its universal adoption:" Vol. 1, 554.
There are decisions in the courts of other States, more or less
in conformity with those cited from Ohio and Kentucky, rejecting or limiting, to a greater or less extent, the master's exemption from liability to a servant for the negligent conduct
of his fellows. We agree with them in holding-and the present case requires no further decision-that the conductor of a
railway train, who commands its movements, directs when it
shall start, at what stations it shall stop, at what speed it shall
run, and has the general management of it, and control over
the persons employed upon it, represents the company, and
therefore that, for injuries resulting from his negligent acts, the
company is responsible. If such a conductor does not represent

CHICAGO & MILWAUKEE RAILROAD v. ROSS.

395

Opinion of the Court.
the company, then the train is opetated without any representative of its owner.
If, now, we apply these views of the relation of the conductor of a railway train to the company, and to the subordinates
under him on the train, the objections urged 'to the charge of
the court will be readily disposed of. Its language in some
sentences may be open to verbal criticism; but its purport
touchi.- the liability of 'the company is, that the conductor and
engineer, though both employ~s, were not fellow-servants in the
sense in which that term is used in the decisions; that the
former was the representative of the company, standing in its
place and stead in the running of the train, and that the latter
was, in that particular, his subordinate, and that for the former's negligence, by which the latter was injured, the company
was responsible.
It was not disputed on the trial that the collision which caused
the injury complained of was the result of the negligence of the
conductor of the freight train, in failing to show to the engineer
the order which he had received, to stop the train at South
Minneapolis until the gravel train, coming on the same road
from an opposite direction, had passed; and the court charged
the jury, that if they so found, and if the plaintiff did not contribute to his injury by his own negligence, the company was
liable, holding that the relation of superior and inferior was
created by the company, as between the two in the operation
of its train; and that they were not, within the reason of the
law, fellow-servants engaged in the same common employment.
As this charge was, in our judgment, correct, the plaintiff
was entitled to recover upon the conceded" negligence of the
conductor. The charge on other points is immaterial; whether
correct or erroneous, it could not have changed the result; the
verdict of the jury could not have been otherwise than for the
plaintiff. Without declaring, therefore, whether any error was
committed in the charge on other points, it is sufficient to say
that we will not reverse the judgment below if an error was
committed on the trial which could not have affected the verdict. Brobst v. Brock, 10 Wall. 519. And, with respect to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

negligence of the conductor of the gravel train, no instruction
was given or requested.
Judgment affirmed.
AIR. JUSTICE BRADLEY,

Justices

dissenting.

GRAY, BLATCHFORD and myself dissent
from the judgment of the court. We think that the conductor
of the railroad train in this case was a fellow-servant of the
railroad company with the other employ6s on the train. We
think that to hold otherwise would be to break down the long
established rule with regard to the exemption from responsibility of employers for injuries to their servants by the negligence
of their fellow-servants.
MATTHEWS,

BATCHELOR v. BRERETON & Another.
APPEAL FRO21 THE SUPRMIE COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued November 14, 18.-Decided December 1, 184.

S, the wife of B, joined with him in a deed to H of land of B, in trust for
the use of S, during her life, and, at any time, on the written request of
S, and the written consent of B, to convey it to such person- as S might
request or direct in writing, with the written consent of B. Afterwards,
B made a deed of the land to W, in which H did not join, and in which
B was the only grantor, and S was not described as a party, but which
was signed by S and bore her seal, and was acknowledged by her in the
prol, r manner : Held, That the latter deed did not convey the legal title to
the laud, and was not made in execution of the power reserved to S,

The question in this case related to the proper distribution of
the proceeds of the sale of a parcel of land in lot 9, in square
455, in the city of Washington, under a decree of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia.
William H. Brereton and Samuel Brereton (also hereinafter
.called Samuel Brereton, Junior,) being tenants in common of
the JUnd, Samuel and Sarah A., his wife, executed to Peter
Hannay a deed dated September 29, 1859, of the land in ques-

