OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

SNYDER v. UNITED STATES.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIlE

DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted November 4,1884.-Decided November 17, 1884.

A genera] verdict, upon an information in several counts for a single forfeiture under the internal revenue laws, is valid if one count is good.
A verdict which speaks of "evaluating," instead of "valuing," is not therefore
insufficient to support a judgment.

This was an information in several counts under section 3372
of the Revised Statutes, for the forfeiture of the tobacco,
machinery, tools and materials in a tobacco manufactory, for
violations of the internal revenue laws. The property was
released upon the claimant's giving a bond to abide the final
decree. The claimant demurred to the information as not setting forth any facts warranting the seizure or forfeiture of the
property. The demurrer was overruled, the claimant filed an
answer, and upon a trial a verdict was returned in this form:
"We, the jury, find a verdict for the government, evaluating
the goods and machinery seized at a sum of one thousand dollars." The claimant moved, in arrest of judgment, that several of the counts were insufficient, and that the verdict was
general upon all the counts, and was vague and uncertain, and
not responsive to the issue. The motion was overruled, and
judgment rendered for the United States, and the claimant sued
out a writ of error.
-It. J D. Rouse and AD'. William Grant for plaintiff in
error.
ADt. Assistant Attorney-General Alaury for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
ie
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
Informations under the revenue laws for the forfeiture of
goods, seeking no judgment of fine or imprisonment against

LABETTE COUNTY COM-MIS'RS v. MOULTON.

217

Syllabus.
any person, are not strictly criminal cases, in which the decisions of the Circuit Court axe final, unless a division of opinion
is certified; but they are civil actions, of which this court has
jurisdiction in error, without regakd to the sum or value in dispute. Rev. Stat. § 699; Pettigrew v. United States,'97 U. S.
385. Yet, as has been expressly adjudged, they are so far in
the nature of criminal proceedings, as to come within the rule
that a general verdict, upon several counts seeking in different
forms one object, must be upheld if one count is good. Clifton
v. lUnitM States, 4 ]low. 242, 250. As one of the counts in this
case is admitted to 'be good, it is unnecessary to consider the
objections taken to the other counts.
The verdict, though expressed in bad English, clearly manifested the intention and finding of the jury upon the issue submitted to them, and the court rightly gave judgment upon it.
Rev. Stat. § 954; Parks v. Turner, 12 How. 39, 46; Lincoln
v. 1r'of C'o., 103 U. S. 412.
Judgment cs/jb'm¢d.

LAETTE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS & Others v.
UNITED STATES ex 'el. MOULTON.
LN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Submitted October 24, 1,84.-Decided November 17, 1884.

Mandamus will lie against county commissioners to compel steps to enforce a
judgment recovered against an incorporated township within the county,
when the law casts upon them the duty of providing for its satisfaction, and
when mandamus is, in other respects, the proper remedy.
Under the statutes of Kansas referred to in the ease and opinion, it was the
duty of the county commissioners to make the proper levy of a tax for
payment of bonds of a township in the county issued in payment of a subscription to railroad stock. The assent and concurrence of the trustee of
the township was not necessary.
One writ of mandamus against all officers concerned in the separate but cooperative steps for levying and collecting a tax is the proper and effective
remedy to enforce its collection.

