OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

reversed, with directions-unless such jurisdiction, upon the
return of the cause, shall be made to appear-to remand the
suit to the State court. Coal Co. v. Blatchford, 11 Wall. 172;
gardner v. Brown, 21 Wall. 36; Ribon v. Railroad Co., 16
Wall. 446 ; .Knapp v. Railroad,20 Wall. 117 ; race v. American Ins. Co., 109 U. S. 278; 3tan,1fehd Railway Co. v. Swan,
111 U. S.379, 381-2; American Bible Society v. Price,110 U.
S. 61; Barney v. Latham, 103 U. S. 205; Blake v. XfoZfim,
103U. S.336.
It iss0 ordered.

ST. PAUL & SIOUX CITY RAILROAD COMPAINY &
Another v. WINONA & ST. PETER RAILROAD COMPANY.
'IN ERROR TO THE S1UhREM

COURT OF THE STATE OF MINES6TA.

Argued December 18, 19, 18.-Decided January 5, 1885.
In grants of lands to aid in building railroads, the title to the lands within
the primary limits within which all the odd or even sections are granted,
relates, after the road is located according to law, to the date of the grant,
and in cases where these limits, as between different roads,, conflict or encroach on each other, priority of date of the act of Congress, and not
priority of location of the line of road, gives priority of title.
When the acts of Congress in such cases are of the same date, or grants are
made for different roads by the same statute, priority of location gives no
priority of right ; but where the limits of the primary grants, which are
settled by the location, conflict, as by crossing or lapping, the parties building the roads under those grants take the sections, within the conflicting
limits of primary location, in equal undivided moieties, without regard to
priority of location of the line of the road, or priority of construction.
A different rule prevails in case of lands to be selected in lieu of those within
the limits of primary location, which have been sold or pre-empted before
the location is made, where the limits of selection interfere or overlap.
In such cases neither priority of grant, noi priority of location, nor priority of Construction, -gives priority of right ; but this is determined
by priority of selection, where the selection is made according to law.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.

ST. PAUL RAILROAD v. WINONA RAILROAD.

721

Opinion of the Court.

Xr. E. C. Palmer for plaintiff in error.
.[r. Thornas WiVsom for defendant in error.
maLEP. delivered the opinion of the coi rt.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Minnesota, and a motion is made to dismiss it for want of jurisdiction.
It will sufficiently appear in the 6pinion on the merits, that
the rights asserted by both parties are founded on acts of Congress, and require the construction of those acts to determine
their conflicting claims. The motion to dismiss, therefore, cannot prevail.
The source of this controversy is to be found in the act of
Congress of March 3, 1857, 11 Stat. 195, making grants of
land to the Territory of Minnesota and the State of Alabama
to aid in the construction of railroads. The first section of this
statute-the important one in the case-is as follows:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and H~ouse of Relresentatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That
there be and is hereby granted to the Territory of _Minnesota,
for the purpose of aiding in the construction of railroads, from
Stillwater, by way of Saint Paul and Saint Anthony, to a point
between the foot of Big Stone Lake and the mouth of Sioux
Wood River, with a branch via Saint Cloud and Crow Wing,
to the navigable waters of the Red River of the north at such
point as the Legislature of said Territory may determine;
from St. Paul and from Saint Anthony via Minneapolis to a
convenient point of junction west of the Mississippi, to the
southern boundary of the Territory, in the direction of the
mouth of the Big Sioux River, with a branch via Faribault to
the north line of the State of Iowa, west of range sixteen;
from Winona via Saint Peter, to a point on the Big Sioux
River south of the forty-fifth parallel of north latitude; also
from La Crescent, via Target Lake, up the valley of Root
River, to a point of junction with the last-mentioned road,
east of range seventeen, every alternate section of land, designated by odd numbers, for six sections in width on each side of
MR.JUsTICE

vOL. Cxr--46

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

each of said roads and branches; but in case it shall appear
that the United States have, when the lines or routes of said
roads and branches are definitely fixed, sold any sections, or any
parts thereof, granted as aforesaid, or that the right of preemption has attached to the same, then' it shall be lawful for
any agent, or agents, to be appointed by the Governor of said
Territory or future State, to select, subject to the approval of
the Secretary of the Interior, from the lands of the' United
States nearest to the tiers of sections above specified, so much
land in alternate sections, or parts of sections, as shall be equal
to such lands as the United States have sold, or otherwise appropriated, or to which the rights of pre-emption have attached
as aforesaid; which lands (thus selected in lieu of those sold,
and to which pre-emption rights have attached as aforesaid,
together with the sections and parts of sections designated by
odd numbers as aforesaid and appropriated as aforesaid) shall
be held by the Territory or future State of Minnesota for the
use and purpose aforesaid; Provided, That the land to be so
located shall, in no case, be further than fifteen miles from the
lines of said roads or branches, and selected for and on account
of each of said roads or branches; Provided furtkr , That
the lands hereby granted for and on account of said roads and
branches, severally, shall be exclusively applied in the construction of that road for and on account of which such lands are
hereby granted, an4 shall be disposed of only as the work progresses, and the same shall be applied to no other purpose
whatsoever; And provided further, That any and all lands
heretofore reserved to the United States, by any act of Congress, or in any other manner by competent authority, for the
purpose of aiding in any object of internal improvement, or
for any other purpbse whatsoever, be and the same are hereby
reserved to the United States from the operation of this act,
except so far as it may be found necessary to locate the routes
of said railroads and branches through such reserved lands, in
which case the rights of way only shall be granted, subject to
the approval of the President of the United States."
The Territory of Minnesota accepted this grant and conferred the right to the lands which came to it by means of its

ST. PAUL RAILROAD v. WINONA RAILROAD.

723

Opinion of the Court.
provisions on certain railroad corporations, which failed to perform their obligations to the State; by reason of which, and
by the foreclosure of statutory mortgages, the State rasumed
control of the lands. It is unnecessary to pursue the various
steps by which it was done, but it may be stated shortly that
the right to build one of the roads mentioned in the act of
Congress, and to receive the lands granted in aid of the enterprise, namely, from St. Paul dtnd St. Anthony, by way of Minneapolis, to the southern boundary of the State, in the direction of the mouth of the Big Sioux River, became vested in
the St. Paul and Sioux City Railroad Company, the plaintiff
in error in this case.
A similar right in regard to the road to be built from'
Winona via St. Peter to a point on the Big Sioux River, south
of the forty-fifth parallel of latitude, and to the lands granted
by the act in aid of it, became vested in the Winona and St.
Peter Railroad Company, the defendant in error.
These companies have complied with the terms of the grant
by Congress and by the Minnesota Legislature, and c(mpleted
the construction of the roads which they undertook to build.
They have also each of them, received large quantities of the
land appropriated by'the act of March, 1857, and by subsequent acts on the same subject, and, at one point where the
lines of the two roads crossed, so thaf the grant of lands to
each of the roads ran into the other's limit, the conflict has
been settled by adopting the principle of an equal undivided
interest in the lands so situated.
The present controversy has relation to another part of the
general course of these'roads, where the lines of their location,
not approaching each other so close that the limits of six miles
lVithin which the alternate six sections are to be first sought
for interfere with each other, but so close that the fifteenmile limits, under the act of 1857, of selection for lands sold
or pre-empted do overlap each other, as do. also the limits of
the extension of the grants under the acts of 1864 and 1865, to
be hereafter considered.
It is in regard to the lands to be selected under all these
grants, and chiefly in regard to the claim of the St. Paul Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

pany, that, in search of its deficient lands in place (using that
phrase for lands within six miles of its road), which had been
disposed of before its location, it can, within its limit of fifteen
miles under the original act, or its twenty miles under the subsequent acts, make those selections of odd-numbered sections
within the six-miles limit of the Winona Company, that the
present controversy arises.
The Secretary of the Interior, after a contest before the
department between the parties to the present litigation, certified to the State of Minnesota, on May 14, 1874, a large
quantity of lands, of odd-numbered sections, within the sixmiles limit of the Winona road, as land properly selected by the
St. Paul Company, to make up its deficiencies of lands within its
own six-miles limits, and also to make up its deficiencies within
the twenty-miles limits before referred to. A small part of
these lands was within the fifteen-miles limits of the Winona
road, and not within its six-miles limit.
Thereupon the Winona Company brought the present suit,
in the proper court of the State, to have a declaration of its
rights in the'lands described in a schedule attached to the bill,
as against the St. Paul Company and others, and to restrain
them from receiving a patent, or other evidences of title to the
lands, from the goiernor of the State.
The local court granted relief, but whether to the full extent
of the prayer of plaintiff we do not know, for, while the judgment of that court is before us, with a specific description of
the pieces of land which it declares to be rightfully owned by
the Winona Company, the schedules referred to in the original
petition are not in the record. From that judgment the St.
Paul Company appealed to the Supreme Court of the State,
where it was affirmed, and then prosecuted this writ of error
to that judgment of affirmance. See 26 M inn. 179 ; 27 Minn.
128.
The judge of the District Court for Blue Earth County, in
which the case was first tried, made an elaborate finding of
the facts on which his judgment was rendered, and also an
amended finding, and by these, so far as any controversy on
the facts arises, the Supreme Court of Minnesota was governed,

ST. PAUL RAILROAD v. WINONA RAILROAD.

725

Opinion of the Court.

and so is this court. These findings of fact are very full, and
are intended to meet several aspects of the case, some of which
are, in our view, immaterial to its decision.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota divides the lands in controversy in the suit into four classes, only the first two of
which are in controversy here, namely:
First. Those lying without the six, but within the fifteen,
miles limit of the defendant (the St. Paul Company), and
within the six-miles limit of plaintiff (the Winona Company).
Second. Those lying without the six-miles limit of each
company, within the fifteen-miles limit of plaintiff (the Winona
Company), and without the fifteen, but within the twenty
miles limit of the defendant (the St. Paul Company).
The decision of that court gave the lands embraced in both
these classes to the Winona Company, and the St. Paul Company assigns for error here that it is entitled to both classes.
The act of March 3, 1857, is of the class of acts which this
court has repeatedly held to be a grant in rasenti. Its language is "that there be, and hereby is, granted to the Territory of Minnesota . . . every alternate section of land
designated by odd numbers, for six sections in width on each
side of said roads;" and though the roads may not be located
through these lands for several years, whenever the location is
made the alternate odd-numbered sections are thereby ascertained, and the title then perfected relates back to the statute;
and as to all such sections, or parts of sections, not sold, or to
which a pre-emption right has not attached at the time of this
location, the title is valid from the date of the act. There are
perhaps other lands reserved by the United States and otherwise excepted out of the grant which do not pass, but these
are not material to the decision of the present case.
In this act of March 3, 1857, and in the earlier act of May
15, 1856, granting lands to the State of Iowa for railroad purposes, and perhaps in other similar acts, Congress has, in a
single statute, made provisions for several different roads, with
different places of beginning and ending, and running in different directions. These roads have, in every instance, been built
by different corporations, organized under State laws, having

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

no other connection with each other than this common source
from which the lands are received, and the rights and duties
arising under these acts of Congress and the acts of the State
on the same subject.
In each and all of these cases the date of the title and the
source of the title are the same, because they arise under the
same act of Congress. It results from this that no priority of
title can be obtained by the earlier location of the line of the
road, provided this be done within the time limited for the forfeiture of the grant. Though one of the corporations to which
the right to build a road and receive the grant has been given
may locate its road two or three years earlier than another company authorized to build another road under the same grant,
there is no priority of title nor any priority of right to the
lands found in place within the six-miles limit by reason of this
earlier location.
As we said before, the title to the alternate sections to be
taken within the limit, when all the odd sections are granted,
becomes fixed, ascertained and perfected in each case by this
location of the line of the road, and in case of each road the
title relates back to the act of Congress. 7ikssouri, Kansas
& Texas Railroad Co. v. Kansas PaiA Railroad Co., 97 U. S.
491, 501; -an Thyck v. Knevals, 106 U. S. 360; Cedar Rapids
Co. v. erring, 110 U. S. 27; Grinnellv. Railroad Co., 103 U.
S. 739. In cases where these lines of road do not cross each
other, nor the limits within which the lands in place are found
do not cross or overlap, nor the limits within which lands in
lieu of those sold or pre-empted are to be selected, this is a
matter of no consequence.
But in the administration of these land grants of the same
date, it has more than once occurred that, by reason of the lines
crossing each other or the exterior limits of the lands intlAce
coming so near as to overlap, the question of priority of right
has arisen.
In such cases it has been insisted very earnestly that priority
of location gave priority of right to all the lands coming within
the six-miles limit of the road first located. Such is the argument of plaintiff in error in this case; and while there is here

ST. PAUL RAILROAD v. WINONA RAILROAD.

*127

Opinion of the Court.

no lap or collision of the six-miles limit of these two roads as
located apd constructed as to lands now in question, it is much
insisted that, the appellant's road having been first located, this
carries with it the identity of the limits within which indemnity lands may be selected for those sold or pre-empted within
its own six-miles limit; and as this indemnity limit extends
over a part of appellee's six-miles limit, it is urged that this
selection, though made years after both roads are located and
built., is a right paramount to any right the appellee has within
that limit, unless it be the road-bed and right of way.
It is on this ground that the appellant here insists upon its
right to enter the six-miles limit of the appellee's road wherever
its indemnity limit of fifteen miles and its extension limit of
twenty miles overlap the six-miles limit of the latter, and, to the
exclusion of the appellee, select there all the odd-numbered sections to which that company would otherwise be entitled.
We do not think this proposition is sound. It has been the
practice and usage of the land department, when these conflicting lines relate to the limits within which the designated alternate odd-numbered sections are to be found, to hold that the
respective companies take the lands so situated in undivided
moieties, without regard to the date of location of the lines of
road. The parties to this litigation adjusted the conflict where
their roads crossed on that basis, and the principle is a necessary
result of the rule that no priority of right is secured by priority
of location. We entertain no doubt of its soundness.
It follows from these principles that the decision of the
Supreme Court was right that the lands embraced in its first
class, namely, those found within the six-miles limit of the
road of the plaintiff below, the Winona Company, and without
the six-miles limit of the defendant, were definitely fixed and
ascertained to belong to the former when its line was located,
and could not be taken to supply deficiencies in the grant of
the other company, whether its road was located first or last.
A careful examination of the list of lands decreed by the
court to be the property of plaintiff below, demonstrates
that much the larger proportion of the lands in controversy,
probably nine-tenths of them, belong to this class, and are found

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

within the limits of the Winona Company's six-miles primary
grant.
It is also to be remarked that this includes all the lands in
controversy lying east of the west line of range thirty-nine (39).
With regard to the lands of the second class, as classified by
the Supreme Court, the decision depends upon the right of
selection by the respective parties, or of the State for them, for
lands not found within the six-miles limit and the twenty-miles
limit when their respective roads were located.
By the act of 1857 these selections could only be made within
fifteen miles of the line of the road, and the court says that the
lands, which it now classifies together in this second group, are
within the fifteen-miles or indemnity limit of the Winona road,
and are not within the fifteen-miles or indemnity limit of the St.
Paul road, but they are within the twenty-miles limit of the
latter road.
In regard to these lands, the court held that the right of the
Winona'Company was superior, under the act of 1857, to the
St. Paul Company's claim, under the act of 1864, and that the
latter had no other claim.
This act of 1864,13 Stat. 72, was one which, by its title, was
passed to give to the State of Iowa lands in aid of a road from
McGregor, on the Mississippi River, to the western boundary
of the State, and another road from Sioux City to the Minnesota line in the county of O'Brien. To this State was given
the alternate sections, designated by odd numbers, for ten sections on each side of these roads. As the Sioux City road was
probably intended to meet the road from St. Paul and St.
Anthony towards the mouth of the Big Sioux River, at the
line between the two States, Congress by the seventh section
enlarged the grant to this latter road to make it equal to that
of the Iowa roads. This section reads as follows:
"S.c. 7. That there be, and is hereby, granted to the State
of Minnesota, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of
a railroad from St. Paul and St..Anthony, via Minneapolis, to
a convenient point of junction west of the M ississippi, to the
southern boundary of the State, in the direction of- the mouth
of the Big Sioux river, four additional alternate sections of

ST. PAUL RAILROAD v. WINONA RAILROAD.

729

Opinion of the Court.
land per mile, to be selected upon the same conditions, restrictions and limitations as are contained in the act of congress
entitled ' An act making a grant of- land to the territory of
Minnesota, in alternate sections, to aid in the construction of
certain railroads in said territory, and granting public lands,
in alternate sections, to the state of Alabama to aid in the construction of a certain railroad in said state,' approved March
third, eighteen hundred and fifty-seven: Provided, That the
land to be so located by virtue of this section may be selected
within twenty miles of the line of said road, but in no case at
a greater distance ther6from." 13 Stat. 74.
By the act of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 526, it was enacted
that the grant of lands to the State of M innesota to aid in the
construction of railroads, of March 3, 1857, "shall be increased
to ten sections per mile for each of said roads and branches,
subject to any and all limitations contained in said act and
sub3equent acts, and as hereinafter provided," thus placing all
the other Minnesota roads on an equality in that respect with
the one from St. Paul and St. Anthony to the Iowa State line.
This statute also requires that the first proviso to the first section of the act of 1857 be so amended as to read, that the land
so located shall in no case be farther than twenty miles from
the lines of said roads, and said lands shall in all cases be indicated by the Secretary of the Interior. It also provides that
nothing herein contained shall interfere with any existing
rights acquired under any law of Congress heretofore enacted
granting lands to the State of Minnesota to aid in the construction of railroads.
There is nothing in either of these statutes which indicates
or requires that the six-miles limit of the original grant is to be
enlarged, so that within a limit of ten miles all the odd sections fall immediately within th grant on the location of the
road. Such language was used in the fourth section of the act
concerning the Union Pacific IRailroad in 1864, only a few
weeks later than the act of that year, now under consideration.
There it was enacted that the words of the act of 1862 should
be so changed as to change the original limits, and include
within that grant the sections added to it by the amendment

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

of 1864. United States v. Burlington & .lissauri .RiverRailroad Co., 98 U. S. 34.
In addition to this significant fact, both the acts of 1864 and
of 1865 speak of the additional sections to be selected, a word
wholly inapplicable to lands in place, which are not ascertained
by selection, but are fixed and determined by the location of
the line of the road. The act of 1865, which is to be considered
inpari materia on this point, provides that these lands shall
be indicated by the Secretary of the Interior.
What this word indicated means may admit of some doubt,
but taken in connection with the other two statutes, and other
aets granting lands to aid in the construction of railroads, it
probably means no more than what is expressed in the act of
1857, namely, that the selections of lieu lands shall be made by
the governor or his agent, and approved by the Secretary.
We think, therefore, that these additional lands granted to appellant, under which it claims the right to go into the limits of
appellee's primary grant, are lands to be selected, and that some
selection on the part of appellee, or for its benefit, must be
shown. As to the lands in the second class of the Minnesota
Supreme Court, it is found as a fact, by the amended finding,
in which the attention of the court was specially turned to that
matter, that no selection of any of theim was ever made by defendant below, or by any one for that company. The language
of the court in its supplementary finding of facts is:
"Neither the State nor the defendant, nor any agent of the
State or of the defendant, ever selected for the defendant, or
on account of the location or construction of its line of road,
any of the lands in controversy in this action lying west of the
west line of range (37) thirty-seven."
As all the lands in controversy lying east of this.line are included in the first class as being within the plaintiff's six-miles
limit of land in place, and as no selection on behalf of defendant has ever been made of any of the lands west of that line,
these two facts would seem to dispose of the whole controversy.
For while the inferior court so far modified its first finding,
namely, that both parties did on the 23d day of May, 1872,
present lists of all the lands in controversy to the local district

ST. PAU-L RAILROAD v. WINONA RAILROAD.

731

Opinion of the Court.
land officers as selections under their respective grants, as to
say that uo selections were ever presented by defendant for
any lands west of range thirty-seven, it left the fact that lists
of selection for these latter were presented byplaint?.f to stand,
and also of the paymeni of the office fees, and that the lists
were certified to the depaptment. There was then a selection
of the lands included in this class made by plaintiff or for its
benefit on the 23d of May, 1872, and no selection of them ever
made by or on behalf of defendant.
The time when the right to lands becomes vested, which are
to be selected within given linits under these land grants,
whether the selection is in lieu of lands deficient within the
primary limits of the grant, or of lands which for other reasons
are to be selected within certain secondary limits, is different
in regard to those that are ascertained within the primary
limits by.the location of the line of the road. In Ryan v.
Railroad Co., 99 U. S.. 382, this court, speaking of a. contest
for lands of this class, said: "It was within the secondary or
indemnity'territory where that deficiency was to be supplied.
The railroad company had not and could not have any claim
to it until specially selected, as it was for that purpose ;" and
the reason given for this is that ': when the road was located
an I maps were made the right of the company to the odd sections first named'became fixed and absolute. With respect to
the lieu lands, as they are called, the right was only a float,
and .attached to no specified tracts until the selection was
actually made in the manner prescribed."
The same idea is suggested, though not positively affirmed,
in the case of Grinnell v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 39.
In the case of the Cedar Rapid Railroad Co. v. Herring,
110 U. S. 27, this principle became the foundation, after much
consideration, of the judgment of the court rendered at the last
term. And the same principle is announced at this term in
the case of the KIansas Pacfte Railroad Co. v.-Atchison, Topek-a & Santa F Co., ante, 414.
The reason of this is that, as no vested right can attach to
the lands in place-the odd-numbered sections within six miles
of each side of the road-until these sections are ascertained

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

and identified by a legal location7f the line of the road, so in
regard to the lands to be selected within a still larger limit,
their identification cannot be known until the selection is made.
It may be a long time after the line of the road is located before it is ascertained how many sections, or parts of sections,
within the primary limits have been lost by sale or pre-emption.
It may be still longer before a selection is made to supply this
loss.
The plaintiff in error insists that the map of its line of road
was filed in 1859. The court of original jurisdiction finds that,
up to the time of the trial in October, 1878, a period of nearly
tiventy years, no selection of these lands had ever been made
by that company, or any one for it. Was there a vested right
in this 'ompany, during all this time, to have not only these
lands, but all the other odd sections within the twenty-mile limits
on each side of the line of the road, await its pleasure? Had
the settlers in that populous region no right to buy of the government because the company might choose to take them, or
might, after all this delay, find out that they were necessary
to make up deficiencies in other quarters ? How long were
such lands to be withheld from market, and withdrawn from
taxation, and forbidden to cultivation ?
It is true that in some. cases the statute requires the land
department to -withdraw the lands within these secondary
limits from market, and in others the officers do so voluntarily.
This, however, is to give the company a reasonable time to
ascertain their deficiencies and make their selections.
It by no means implies a vested right in said company,
inconsistent with the right of the government to sell, or of any
other company to select, which has the same right of selection
within those limits. Each company having this right of selection in such case, and having no other right, is bound to exer".cise that right with reasonable diligence; and when it is
exercised in accordance with the statute, it becomes entitled to
the lands so selected. The unascertained float then becomes a
vested right to an identified tract of land.
In this case, and for these reasons, priority of- selection
secures priority of right.

ST. PAUL RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

733

Syllabus.
The judgment of the Supreme Court as to the land in this,
its second class, is correct, whatever may have been its reasons
for it.
It is no answer to this to say that the Secretary of the Interior certified these lands to the State for the use of the
appellant. It is manifest that he did so under a mistake of
the law, namely, that appellant, having made the earlier location of its road through these lands, became entitled to satisfy
all its demands, either for lieu, lands or for the extended grant
of 1864, out of any odd sections within twenty miles of that
location, without regard to its proximity to the line of the
other road. We have already shown that such is not the law,
and this erroneous decision of his cannot deprive the Winona
Company of rights which became vested by its selection of
those lands. Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, SO; Gibson v.
Chouleau, 13 Wall. 92, 102; Shepley v. Cowen, 91 U. S. 330,
340; .Moorev. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530, 536.
We see no prror in the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota, and it is accordingly
Affirmed.

ST. PAUL

& DULUTH

RAILIOAD

COMPANY

v.

UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted December 8, 181.-Decided January 5, 185.

A voluntary transfer of a claim against the United States by way of mortgage,
completed and made absolute by judicial sale, is within the provision, in Rev.
Stat. ยง 3477, that assignments of claims against the United States shall be
void, "unless they are freely made and executed, in the presence of at least
two attesting witnesses, after the allowance of such a claim, the ascertainment of the amount due, and the issuing of a warrant for the payment
thereof."
A transfer of a contract with the United States by way of mortgage, completed
and made absolute by judicial sale, is within the prohibition of Rev. Stat.
3737, that "no contract or order, or any interest therein, shall be transferred by the party to whom such contract or order is given to any other

