OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

UNITED STATES v. WADDELL & Others.
ON CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Submitted October 14, 188.-Decided November 3, 1834.

§ 5503 Rev. Stat. is a constitutional and valid law.

.sxparle YarrougAe, 110
U. . 651, affirmed.
The exercise by a citizen of the United States of the right to make a homestead
entry upon unoccupied public lands watch is conferred by § 2289 Rev. Stat.
is the exercise of a right secured by the Constitution and laws of the United
States within the meaning of § 5 503 Rov. Stat.
An information which charges in substance that a citizen of the United States,
made, on a given day at a land office of the Un ited States a hbmestead
entry on a quarter section of land subject to entry at that place, and that
afterwards, while residing on that land for the purpose of perfecting his
right to the same tnder specified laws of the United States on that subject,
the defendants conspired to injure and oppress him and to intimidate and
threaten him in the free exercise mid enjoyment of that right, and because
of his having exercised it, and to prevent his compliance with those laws ;
and in the second count that, in pursuance of the conspiracy they did upon
said homestead tract, with force and arms, fire off loaded guns and pistols
in his cabin, and did then and there drive him from his home on said homestead entry ; and in the third count that the defendants went in disguise
on the premises when occupied by him, with intent to prevent and hinder
the free exercise of and enjoyment by him of the right and privilege to make
said homestead entry on lands of the United States secured to him by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, and the right to cultivate and
improve said lands and'mature his title as provided by the statute, states
the facts with precision so as to bring the case within § 5508 Rev. Stat.
The certificate of division contained two questions which this court decided,
and a third whether the demurrer below was well taken. No ground of
demurrer was assigned which raised any question except the two decided,
but the record disclosed a grave constitutional question which was not
argued or suggested by counsel. Held, That the case should be remanded,
with answers to the two questions, and for further proceedings.

information charging a conspiracy to violate a law of the
United States. .The proceedings, and the facts which make
the case, are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
li'. Solielor-Generalfor plaintiff in error.
3f-. Joseph TF 3fwrtin for defendants in error.

UNITED. STATES v. WADDELL.
Opinion of the Court.
M1iz. JUSTICE IMIILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case arises on a criminal information filed by the District
Attorney of the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas in the Circuit Court for that District.
The defendants demurred to the information, and, on consideration of the demurrer, the judges of that court were
divided in opinion on three questions, which they have certified
to this court, as follows:
"1. Whether § 550S of the Revised Statutes is a constitu,
tional and valid law.
"2. Whether the information in said cause charged any
offence under said § 5508 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States or against any statute of the United States.
"3. Whether the demurrer to said information was well
taken and should be sustained.".
The first and second counts of the information undertake to
set out a conspiracy of the defendants, under § 5509, to deprive
or hinder Durrell Lindsey, a citizen of the United States, of the
right to establish his claim to certain lands of the United States
under the homestead acts, namely, §§ 2289, 2290, and 2291 of
the Revised Statutes.
And the third count, without charging a conspiracy, states
that defendants went upon the land of the United States,
occupied by said Lindsey as a homestead, with intent to prevent and hinder him from residing upon and improving said
land and maturing the title to himself to said homestead entry,
a right secured to him by the sections of the Revised Statutes
aforesaid.
The first -question certified to us, as to the constitutional
validity of § 5508 o, the Revised Statutes, was answered
in the affirmative by the unanimous opinion of this court in
Ya2,b'rouyg's Case, 110 U. S. 651. It is not deemed necessary or appropriate to add to what was there so recently said
on that subject. The first question must therefore be answered
affirmatively.
Does the information charge any offence under that section?
The section reads thus:
"If two or more persons conspire to injure or oppress,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

threaten or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United States, or because of his having
so exercised the same; or if two or more persons go in disguise
on the highway, or on the premises of another, with intent
to prevent or hinder his free exercise or enjoyment of any right
or privilege so secured, they shall be lined not more than five
thousand dollars and imprisoned not more than ten years; and
shall, moreover, be thereafter ineligible to any office, or place
of honor, profit, or trust created by the Constitution or laws of
the United States."
The substance of the first two counts of the information is,
that Burrell Lindsey, a citizen of the United States, made, on
the 30th day of December, 1882, at the United States land
office at Little Rock, a homestead entry on a quarter-section
of land subject to entry at that place. That afterwards, to
,it, on the 10th day of lanuary, 1883, while residing on and
cultivating said land for the purpose of perfecting his right to
the same, under the laws of the United States on that subject,
namely, §§ 2289, 2290, and 2291 of the Revised Statutes,
the defendant conspired to injure and oppress him, and to intimidate and threaten him in the free exercise and enjoyment
of that right and because of his having exercised it, and to prevent his compliance with those laws; and in the second count,
that, in pursuance of this conspiracy, they did, upon said
homestead tract, with force and arms, fire off loaded guns and
pistols in the cabin of said Lindsey, and did then and there
drive him from his home on said homestead eniryo.
,The third count charges that the defendants went in disguise on said premises, while occupied by said Lindsey, with
intent to prevent and hinder the free exercise of and enjoyment
by him of the right and privilege to make said homestead
entry on lands of the United" States secured to him by the
Constitution, and laws of the United States, and the right to
cultivate and improve said land and to mature his title, as provided by the statute already referred to.
It seems clear enough that the allegation of a conspiracy to
prevent Lindsey from exercising the right to make effectual

UNITED STATES v. NVADDELL.
Opinion of the Court.

his homestead entry, and the acts done in pursuance of that
conspiracy, and the going in disguise to his house for the same
purpose, are stated with reasonable precision so as to bring the
case within section 5508, if the right which he was exercising
was one within the meaning, of that section and within the
constitutional power of Congress to protect by this legislation.
In reference to this latter qualification, the statute itself is
careful to limit its operation to an obstruction or oppression in
"the free exercise of a right or privilege secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States, or because of his having
exercised such rights."
The protection of this section extends to no other right, to
no right or privilege dependent on a law or laws of the State.
Its object is to guarantee safety and protection to persons in
the exercise of rights dependent on the laws of the United
States, including, of course, the Constitution and treaties as
well as statutes, and it does not, in this section at least, design
to protect any other rights.
The right assailed, obstructed, and its exercise prevented or
intended to be prevented, as set out in this petition, is very
clearly a right wholly dependent upon the act of Congress
concerning the settlement and sale of the public lands of the
United States. No such right exists or can exist outside of an
act of Congress. The Constitution of the United States, by
Article IV., section 3, in express -terms vests in Congress "the
power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations
respecting the territory or other property of the United States."
One of its regulations-the one under consideration-authorizes a class of persons, of whom Lindsey is one, to settle upon
its land, and, on payment of an inconsiderable sum of money
and the written declaration of intent to make it a homestead,
he is authorized to reside there. By building a house and
making other improvements on it and residing there for five
years consecutively, which, under the statute and under that
alone, he has a right to do, and paying the fees to the officer
necessary to its issue, he acquires a patent or title in fee to the
land.
Put his title is dependent on continued residence of himself

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

or family. By the original entry he acquires the inchoate but
well-defined right to the land and its possession, which can
only be perfected by continued residence, possession, and cultivation for five years. His right to continue this residence
for five years for that purpose, is dependent upon the act of
Congress. His right. to the patent, after this is done, rests
exclusively on the same foundation.
Tlie right here guaranteed is not the mere right of protection against personal violence. This, if the result of an ordinary quarrel or malice, would be cognizable under the laws of
the State and by its courts. But it is something different from
that. It is the right to remain on the land in order to perform
the requirements of the act of Congress, and.according to its
rules, perfect his incipient title.
Whenever the acts complained of are of a character to prevent this, or throw obstruction in the way of exercising this
right, and for the purpose and with intent to prevent it, or to
injure or oppress a person because he has exercised it, then,
because it is a right asserted under the law of the United
States and granted by that law, those acts come within the
purview of the statute and of the constitutional power of Congress to make such statute. In the language of the court in
.Excarte Ya6vrrough: "The, power arises out of the circumstance that the function in which the party is engaged, or the
right which he is about to exercise, is dependent on the la.s
of the United States. In both of these cases it is the duty of
that government to see that he may exercise this right freely,
and to protect'him from violence while so doing, or on account
of so doing."
This language is as applicable to the present case as it is
to that.
It would indeed be strange if the United States, under the
constitutional -provisions we have cited, being the owner of un,settled lands larger in area than the most powerful kingdoms
of Europe, and having the power "to dispose of and make all
needful rules and regulations respecting this territory," cannot
make a law which protects a party in the performance of his
existing contract for the purchase of such land, without which

UNITED STATES v.- WADDELL.
Opinion of the Court.

the contract fails, and the rights, both of the United States and
the purchaser, are defeated.
This view requires the second question also to be answered
affirmatively.
With regard to the third question, we have some difficulty in
deciding what precise point of law the judges of the Circuit
Court differed upon, and what they referred to us for decision.
Did they mean to ask, is there any reason whatever why this
information shall be held bad? Or did they mean to inquire
whether it was bad for either of the two other matters we have
discussed? Or did they refer it to this court to decide whether
it ivas bad for any of the reasons found in the demurrer to it
filed in the case?
It has been repeatedly held in this court that the object of
the statute authorizing such certificates is to present some one
or more well-defined, clear-cut questions of law which arise in
the progress of the case in the Circuit Court, and on which the
opinions of the judges holding it or them are opposed. The first
two questions suggest, in each of them, such a point very clearly.
The third does not. It leaves us to -wander over the whole
field of conjecture for any possible objection to the information,
without pointing to any distinct proposition of law on which
the judges divided. De Wolf v. Usher, 3 Pet. 269; Sadler v.
Hoovei', 7 How. 646; Tilsav.Barnuem, 8 How. 258 ; Daniels
v. Ptail'oadCo., 3 Wall. 250; llaveneyei v.ITowac County, 3 Wall.
294 ; Ward v. Chamberlain, 2 Black, 430.
If we look beyond the certificate of the judges to the demurrer itself, we find no ground of demurrer assigned which
raises any other question than the two we have discussed. The
demurrer is in the following language:
"Unted States
v.
.DavidTaddell et als.

o
No 959.

"Come the defendants, by their attorney, and demur to the
information herein fied against them, and for cause thereof
say:
"1st. The matters and things alleged therein do not constiVOL. cxi.-6

82

OCTOBER TERM , 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tute any offence against the laws or sovereignty of the United
States.
"2d. Said information does not allege any offence of which
this court has jurisdiction.
"3d. Because said section 5508, so far as it may attempt to
impose penalties and inflict punishment for the lawlessness and
violence set forth in said information, is in violation of the
Constitution of the United States and void.
"14th. And because said information is in other respects informal, is insufficient and defective.
"Wherefore said defendants pray judgment of said information, and that the same may be quashed, &c.
"JOSEPH W. MARTim, AUt'y/or ef'ts."
Nor has the counsel for the United States, or for the defendants, suggested in their briefs or otherwise any other question
or proposition of law besides the two we have already decided.
The pertinency of these remarks will be seen when we observe that § 5508, after defining the punishment of those convicted under it, by fine and imprisonment, adds: "And (they)
shall, moreover, be thereafter ineligible to any office, or-place
of honor, profit or trust created by the Constitution or laws of
the United States." When we bring this language, which is
not the sentence of the court, but an indelible disgrace affixed
to the party convicted, by the declaration of the law itself, into
direct connection with the language of the fifth article of
amendment of the Constitution, namely, that "no person shall
be held to answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime,
unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury," there
does arise a very serious question whether this crime is not
made an infamous one by the language of the statute, and cannot, therefore, be prosecuted by information.
The question is a very imp 0rtant one. It has not been argued before us or even suggested by counsel. We see no reason
to believe that it was in the minds of the judges, nor any evidence that they would have been opposed in opinion on it if it
had been suggested to them.

WNIISON v. ARRICK.

83*

Statement of Facts.

Under these circumstances we think it the true course toremit the case to the Circuit Court with the answers to the two
other questions, that the question whether the case can be prosecuted by information may be there raised in an appropriate
manner; and for such action, as to counsel and the court may
appear best.
The first and second questions are answered afrmatively,
and the case
Remanded to tiw Circuit Courtfo''fwrtherproeeding.

WILSO , Adm'r, v. ARRICK, Adm'x.
IN ERROR TO TE

SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT O

COLUBMBIA.

Argued October 16, 1884.-Decided October 27, 1884.

In the District of Columbia, a debt due the estate of an intestate, collected
by an agent of the administrator, is an administered asset, and cannot be
recovered of the agent by an administrator de blnis non of the estate,
appointed by the court after removal of the administrator.

Horatio Ames, whose administrator de anis non brought
-this suit, died in January, 1871. On some day not shown by
the record, but prior to April, 1873, his widow, Charlotte L.
Ames was appointed administratrix, with the will annexed,,of
his estate. There was claimed to be due the estate, from the
United States, a large sum of money for cannon furni shed, which
was satisfied by payments made in April, 1871, and in January,
1873. In May, 1878, Mrs. Atoes filed her account, in which
she charged herself with the sunt of $39,955 as received by her
from the'United States on acqount of the claim of the estate,
and took credit for three payments, amounting to $33,574.36,
made to Clifford Arrick, the intestate of the defendant, for
which vouchers were filed, signed by him. Exceptions were
filed to the account by Oliver Ames, a brother of Horatio Ames.
Before the exceptions were heard, the court, on January 9th,
1875, removed Mrs. Ames for having failed to comply with an
order of the court requiring her to give an additional bond, and

