BRADSTREET COMPANY v. HIGGINS.
Counsel for Parties.

which commanded the mayor to swear Sellwood and Spinnage,
that they sued this too soon; for a mandamus ought not to go
until the officer has refused to do the act and his duty; or at
least that there was some person who had right to have the
thing done to them; which was not in this case, because they
were not yet elected. That this was to sue a mandamus quia
timet, and, like the case of an original bearing teste, before the
cause of action accrued. But per Holt, Chief Justice, it willbe well enough in this case, because they are acts depending
the one upon the other; first, they ought to elect him, and then
the mayor ought to swear him. And the writ was held good
and the return disallowed, and a peremptory mandamus was
granted."
We are of opinion, therefore, that there is no error in the
judgment of the Circuit Court, and it is accordingly
A 2 wrmed.

BRADSTREET COMPANY v. HIGGINS.
IN ERROR TO THE CMCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF

ISSOURI.

Submitted October 27, 1884.-Decided November 17,1884.

When the jurisdiction of this court for review of the judgments and decrees of
circuit courts depends upon the amount in controversy, that amount is the
sum shown by the whole record, including counter-claims, and not by the
claims set up by the plaintiff only. HUiltonv. D ckinson, 108 U. S. 165, affirmed.

This was a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, it being alleged that the amount in controversy was not sufficient
to give jurisdiction. The facts are stated in the opinion of the
court.
.3fr. T1.Hallett Philli ps (Mr. Carles I. Dobson was
with him) for the motion.
Xr. Yenry Wise Garn'ett,opposing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This record shows that Higgins, the defendant in error,
brought suit against the Bradstreet Company for $8,000, the
price and value of certain property of his which the company
had appropriated to its own use. The answer of the company
contained, 1st, a general denial of the allegations of the petition;
2d, a counter-claim of $1;10418 for moneys collected by Higgins
for the use of the company and not paid over; and, 3d, a counter-claim of $1,833.42, the expenses of the office of the company at Kansas City over its receipts, which Higgins, as superintendent of the office, was bound to pay. Higgins in his reply
admitted the first counter-claim, and consented to its being
applied as a credit upon the demand for which his suit was
brought. As to the second counter-claim, his defence was, in
effect, that the legitimate expenses of the office at Kansas City
while he was superintendent, which he was bound to pay, did
not exceed its legitimate receipts. Upon these issues a trial
was had, which resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor of
Higgins for $3,333.92. Upon the trial a bill of exc6ptions was
taken by the company, from which it appears that evidence
was introduced by the company "tending to show that the
legitimate expenses of the Kansas City office exceeded its legitimate receipts during the time plaintiff acted as its superintendent in the sum of $61.10, including plaintiff's salary of $100 per
month as expenses." This writ of error was brought by the
company, and Higgins now moves to dismiss because the
value of the matter in dispute does not exceed $5,000.
In HZilton v. Dickinson, 108 U. S. 165, it -. as decided, on full
consideration, that our jurisdiction for the review of the judgments and decrees of the circuit courts, in this class of cases,
depends on the value of the matter in dispute here, and that it
is the actual matter in dispute, as shown by the whole record,
and not the ad da mnum alone, which governs. Here the recovery against the compahy was less that $5,000, and that, according to all the cases which were fully collected and commented
on in M[llton v. Dickinson, is not of itself enough to give us
jurisdiction. The right of the company to bring the case here,
therefore, depends on the jurisdictional effect of its various

MR. CEF

HANCOCK v. HOLBROOK.
Syllabis.

counter-claims. As the first of these claims was admitted by
Higgins in his reply, there could not have been below, and
there cannot be here, any dispute about that. The conclusive
presumption upon the record is, that the amount of this claim
was credited upon the sum found due from the company for the
property about which the suit was brought, and the verdict
and judgment given only for the balance remaining after that
deduction was made. As to the second, the record shows that
while the claim in the pleadings was for $1,833.42, the evidence
introduced in support of it only tended to prove that there was
$61.10 due from Higgins on that accunt. The dispute in this
court, therefore, according to the record is, 1st, as to the right
of Higgins to retain his judgment against the company for $3,333.92, and 2d, as to the right of the company to recover $61.10
from Higgins. As these two sums combined do not make
$5,000, it is clear we have no jurisdiction, and the motion to
dismiss must be granted. Had it not been for the statement in
the bill of exceptions, which, in effect, limited the counterclaim to the amount which the evidence tended to prove, the
case would have been different, for then it would have appeared
that the company might have been entitled to recover the whole
amount of $1,833.42, after defeating the entire claim of Higgins, thus making the apparent value of the matter in dispute
here in excess of our jurisdictional requirements. As it is,
however, we can look only to the statement in the bill of exceptions of what the amount in dispute under this claim actually was.
.Dimised.

HANCOCKv . HOLBROOK & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued November 4, 1884.-Decided November 17, 1884.

When a cause commenced in a State court, and removed to a circuit court, is
brought to this court, and it does not appear on the face of the record that

