OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

BOND & Another v. DUSTIN.
IN ]ERO]TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Ar6ued December 3.1884.-Decided December 22, 1884.
In an action at law, submitted to the decision of the Circuit Court by the parties waiving a trial by jury, in which the record does not show the filing of
the stipulation in writing required by section 649 of the Revised Statutes,
this court, upon bill of exceptions and writ of error, cannot review rulings
upon the admission or rejection of testimony, or upon any other question of

law growing out of the evidence ; but may determine whether the declaration is sufficient to support the judgment.
The filing of a stipulatidn in writing, waiving a jury, under section 649 of the
Revised Statutes, is not sufficiently shown by a statement in the record, or
in the bill of exceptions, that "the issue joined by consent is tried by the
court, a jury being waived," or that "the case came on for trial, by agreement of parties, by the court, without the intervention of a jury."
A motion in arrest of judgment can only be maintained for a defect apparent
upon the record, and the evidence is no part of the record for this purpose.
A statute of a State, providing that a verdict returned on several counts shall
not be set aside or reversed if one count is sufficient, governs proceedings
in cases fried in the Federal courts within that State, and is applicable to
judgments lawfully rendered without a verdict.

This was a writ of error to reverse a judgment of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois
for the defendant in error in an action of assuifpsit brought by
him against the plaintiffs in error, and tried by that court without a jury.
The declaration contained two special counts on bills of exchange, the one for $2,500 and the other for $4,000, drawn
upon the defendants by one Falconer, their agent, at their instance and for their benefit, and indorsed by the payees to the
plaintiff; as well as common counts in the sum of $10,000 for
money lent, money paid, money had and received, interest for
the use of money due, and upon an account stated. The defendant pleaded non a.sunmpsit, and denied the signatures of
the instruments set forth iithe first two counts.
The record stted that the parties came by their attorneys

"and the issue joined by consent is tried by the court, a jury

BOND v. DUSTIN.
Opinion of the Court.

being waived, " and that the court, having heard the evidence
and arguments, "finds the issue for the plaintiff, and assesses
his damages at the sum of $7,173.42; whereupon the defendants enter their motion for a new trial and in arrest of judgment,
which, being heard by the court, is overruled," and judgment
rendered for the plaintiff for that sum and costs.
The court allowed a bill of exceptions, which began with the
recital, "the above cause coming on for trial, by agreement of
parties, by the court, without the intervention of a jury ;" and
which stated all the evidence introduced by either party; the
objections taken by the defendants to the admission of some of
the evidence introduced by the plaintiff ; the finding and judgment of the court; a motion of the defendants for a new trial,
because the court heard incompetent testimony against the defendants' objection, and because the judgment was against the
law and the evidence; the overruling of that motion; the sub
sequent making and overruling of a motion in arrest of judgment; and that the defendants excepted to the admission of
the evidence objected to, and to the overruling of the two
motions.
The errors assigned and argued were to the admission of evidence at the trial; to the overruling of the motion in arrest of
judgment; and to "giving judgment against the plaintiffs in
error upon the contracts alleged and proved, because upon the
pleadings and evidence it did not appear that the court had
jurisdiction to hear and determine an action brought by the
defendant in error on said contracts, or any of the same."
. t. Nicho7~a. P. Bond for plaintiffs in error.
-'r. H. S. Greeie for defendant in error submitted on his
brief.
MR. JUSTICE GiAY delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts as above stated, and continued :
The first question to be determined is how far this court,
upon this record, has authority to consider the alleged errors.
.By the act of March 3, 1865, ch. 86, § 4, re-enacted in the
Revised Statutes, it is provided that issues of fact in civil

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opiniou of the Court.

cases may be tried and determined by the Circuit Court without the intervention of a jury, whenever the parties, or their attorneys of record, file a stipulation in writing with the clerk of
the court waiving a jury; that the finding of the court upon
the facts shall have the same effect as the verdict of a jury;
and that its rulings in the progress of the trial, when excepted
to at the time and presented by bill of exceptions, may be
reviewed by this court upon error or appeal. 13 Stat. 501;
Rev. Stat. §§ 649, 700.
Before the passage of this statute, it had been settled by repeated decisions that in any action at law in which the parties
waived a trial by jury and submitted the facts to the determination of the Circuit Court upon the evidence, its judgment
was valid; but that this court had no authority to revise its
opinion upon the admission or rejection of testimony, or upon
any other question of law growing out of the evidence, and
therefore, when no other error appeared on the record, must
affirm the judgment. Guild v. Fr'ontin,18 How. 135; .Kelsey
v. Foryth, 21 Hlow. 85; Campbell v. Boyreau, 21 How. 223.
The reason for this, as stated by Chief Justice Taney in Campbell v. Boyreau, was that "by the established and familiar rules
and principles which govern common-law proceedings, no question of law can be reviewed and re-examined in an appellate
court upon writ of error (except only where it arises upon the
process, pleadings, or judgment, in the cause), unless the facts
are found by a jury, by a general or special verdict, or are admitted by the parties upon a case stated in the nature of a
special verdict, stating the facts and referring the questions of
law to the court." 21 How. 226. Even in actions duly referred by rule of court to an arbitrator, only rulings and decisions in matter of law after the return of the award were reviewable. Thornton v. Carson, 7 Cranch, 596, 601; Alexandria
Car2l v. Swann, 5 How. 83 ; York & Cumberlaznd Railroadv.
MA1-yers, i8 How. 246 ; ILeckers v. Fowler, 2 Wall. 123.
Since the passage of this statute, it is equally well settled by
a series of decisions that this court cannot consider the correctness of rulings at the trial of an action by the Circuit Court
without a jury, unless the record shows such a waiver of a jury

BOND v. DUSTIN.
Opinion of the Court.

as the statute requires, by stipulation in writing, signed by the
parties or their attorngys, and filed with the clerk. Flanders
v. Tweed, 9 Wall. 425 ; Reeaney v. Case,12 Wall. 275 ; Gilmam
v. Illinois & . 1i.ssippi Telegraph Co., 91 U. S. 603, 614;
31adison County v. Tflarren, 106 U. S. 622; Alexander County
v. Kimnball, 106 U. S. 023, note. In Flanders v. Tweed, Mr.
Justice Nelson quoted the passage just cited from the opinion
of Chief Justice Taney in Caimnbell v. Boyrau., and said that
when a trial by jury had been waived, but there was no stipulation in writing, no finding of the facts, and no.question upon
the pleadings, the judgment must, according to the course of
proceeding in previous cases, be affirmed, unless under very
special circumstances this court otherwise ordered. 9 Wall.
429, 431.
The most appropriate evidence of a compliance with the statute is a copy of the stipulation in writing filed with the clerk.
But the existence of the condition upon which a review is allowed is sufficiently shown by a statement, in the finding of
facts by the court, or in the bill of exceptions, or in the record
of 'the judgment entry, that such a stipulation was made in
writing. Kearney v. Case, 12 Wall. 283, 284:; Diekinson v.
Platers'Bank, 16 Wall. 250. So it has been held that a written consent of the parties, after a trial by jury has begun, to
withdraw a juror and refer the case to a referee, in accordance
with a statute of the State, authorizing this course, is a sufficient stipulation in writing waiving a jury; and that when the
court has authority to refer a. case upon consent in writing only,
an order expressed to be made "by consent of parties," that
the case be referred, necessarily implies that such consent was
in writing. Boogher v InsralneeCo., 103 U. S. 90. See also
United States v. Harris,106 U. S. 629, 634, 635. And since the
statute, as before, a judgment upon an agreed statement of facts
or case stated, signed by the parties or their counsel, and entered of record, leaving no question of fact to be tried, and presenting nothing but a question of law, may be reviewed on error. Sujervisors v. .Kennieolt, 103 U. S. 554; United States v.
.Ma8o1, 16 Pet. 291; Burr v. Des Afoines Co., 1 Wall. 99;
Canpbell v. Boyreaw, above cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

The record before us contains nothing to show thatr-tnere was
any stipulation in writing waiving a jury. T1'b Circuit Court
had authority to try and determine the cage, whether the
waiver was written or oral. In the finding of facts and in the
judgment there is no statement upon the subject. The only
evidence of a waiver of a jury is in the statement in the record
that when the case came on for trial "the issue joined. by consent is tried by the court, a jury being waived;" and in the
recital at the beginning of the bill of exceptions, "the above
cause coming on for trial, by agreement of parties, by the court,
without the intervention of a jury." The case cannot be distinguished, in any particular favorable to the plaintiffs in error,
from those of [acison 6unty v. Wharren and Alexaner
County v. Kimball, above cited, the ]atest adjudications upon
the subject, both of which came up from the same court as the
present case. In one of those cases, the statement in the record
was "the parties having stipulated to submit the case for trial
by the court without the intervention of a jury;" and, in the
bill of exceptions, "said cause being tried by the court without
a jury, by agreement of parties." In the other case, the statement in the record was in the very same words as in the case
at bar; and in the bill of exceptions was in these words: "upon
the trial of this cause before the iHon. S. H. Treat, sitting as
Circuit Judge, a jury being waived by both parties."
The necessary conclusion is that this court has no authority
to consider the eyceptions to the admission of evidence at the
trial.
The attempt to sustain the motion in arrest of judgment, by
an argument that the evidence was insufficient to warrant a
recovery in this action, fails for the same reason, as well as because a motion in arrest of judgment can only be maintained
for a defect apparent upon the face of the record, and the evidence is no part of the record for this purpose. Carterv. Bennett, 15 How. 354.
The plaintiffs in error further contend that neither of the
special counts sets forth any cause of action, and that the finding and judgment, being general, and not limited to the common counts, should therefore be set aside. This objection, so

MEMPHIS RAILROAD CO. v. COMMISSIONERS. 609
Syllabus.

far as it touches the sufficiency of the declaration to support
the judgment, is fairly presented for the determination of this
court, within the rule laid down by Chief Justice Taney in
Campbell v. Boyreau, and by Mr. Justice Nelson in Planders
v. Tweed, as already stated.
But, by the law applicable to this case, the objection cannot
be sustained. By the common law, indeed, a general verdict
and judgment upon several counts in a civil action must be reversed on writ of error if only one of the counts was bad. But
Lord Mansfield "exceedhigly lamented that ever so inconvenient and ill founded a rule should have been established," and
added, "what makes this rule appear more absurd is that it
does not hold in the case of criminal prosecutions." Grant v.
.Astle,2 Doug. 722, 730; Snyder v. United States, ante, 216.
In Illinois it has been changed by statute, providing that "whenever an entire verdict shall be given on several counts, the
same shall not be set aside or reversed on the ground of any
defective count, if one or more of the counts in the declaration
shall be sufficient to sustain the verdict. Illinois Rev. Stat.
1874,ch. 110, § 58. That statute governs proceedings in cases
Rev. Stat.
tried in the Federal courts within that State.
§ 914; Townsend v. Jemison, 7 How. 706, 722; Sawin v. Kenny,
93 U. S. 289. And the rule thereby established must be applied to judgments lawfully rendered without a verdict. As
the common counts in this declaration are indisputably good,
the sufficiency of the special counts need not be considered.
Judgment affirmefZ.

MEMPPIS

& LITTLE ROCK RAILROAD COMPANY
v. RAILROAD COMMISSIONERS.

IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKASAS.
Submitted November 25, 18S4.-Decided December 22, 1S84.

A statute exempting a corporation from taxation confers the privilege only on
the corporation specially referred to, and the right will not pass to its successor unless the intent of the statute to that effect is clear and express.
voL. cxn--39

