OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

ment rendered in a State court, because first actually levied as
against one claiming under an execution out of the District
Court of the United States, which had a priority of lien by reasonWe,
of having
been first issued.
therefore,
now determine that the plaintiff in error
does
not hold the legal title of the premises in controversy, as against
the defendant in error, claiming under the marshal's sale and
the decree of the District Court; and we decide nothing beyond
that. The other questions, argued at the bar-whether the
forfeiture decreed by the District Court operated to transfer
the whole title of the premises against all claimants; whether,
if it operated only upon the interest of the owner at the time
the alleged offences were committed, subject to all valid liens
then existing, nevertheless, those liens were transferred to the
proceeds of the sale, and the claimants were bound at their
peril to intervene in their own behalf in that proceeding; or,
whether the sale, as made, passed the legal title, subject to all
cxisting liens, including those sought ineffectually to be enforced
by the proceedings under which the plaintiff in error*claims;
and whether, in that event, these may be enforced against the
laud or present owners, and if so, in what mode-we have
passed by without considering, as not necessary to the decision
of the case.
The judgment of the Circuit Court isqaffrmed.

EAST TEIN-ESSEE, VIRGINIA .& GEORGIA RAILROAD CO. v. SOUTHERN TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF AL A AIA.
Submitted November 10, 1 8A.-Decided November24, 16.

Rilton v. Diccin.son, 108 U. S. 16, again affirmed.
The Circuit Courts of the United States, taking jurisdiction of a proceeding to
enforce a remedy given by a State statute, can act only in accordance with
the statute creating the remedy, and are possessed only of the powers con-

E. TENN., VA. & GA. RR. CO. v. SOUTH. TEL. CO.

307

Statement of Facts.
ferred by it on the State courts: and this court will modify a supersedeas
granted by a Circuit Court of the United States in such a proceeding, in
order to make it conform to the powers eonferred upon State courts in that
respect.

This was a motion to dismiss a writ of error for want of
jurisdiction; or, if that should be denied, to modify the supersedeas.
Sections 1930, 1931, 1932 of the Code of Alabama give telegraph companies incorporated by other States a "right of way
over the lands, franchises and easements of other persons and
corporations, and the right to erect poles and establish offices,
upon making just compensation as now provided by law."
Sections 3580 to 3600, inclusive, prescribe the mode in which
such a company may appropriate private property within the
State for its uses. Application must be made therefor by petition to the Probate Court or to the Circuit Court of the
proper county, both of which courts are invested with jurisdiction for that purpose. The proceedings in the court
after the filing of the petition are to be in em, and must
"conform as nearly as may be, except as herein otherwise
provided, to the proceedings in -ewn in the admiralty courts,
and be conducted according to the rules of such courts so
far as practicable." See. 3581. Provision is then made for
notice of the filing of the petition to the owner of the property
(see. 3583) and for the empanelling of a jury, "who, under the
direction of the judge, shall well inquire, and true assessment
make, of the damages and compensation which the owner
shall be entitled to have for the appropriation,
; and the assessment of compensation for any
right of way shall be made irrespective of any benefit from
any improvement proposed by the petitioner." Sec. 3586.
"The owner . . . may intervene in the cause for his
interest therein, and evidence may be offered on either side:
but no delay in the assessment to be made by the jury shall be
caused by any controversy or evidence in respect to the title or
ownership of the land, or of any part thereof." See. 3581.
"The verdict . . . shall be immediately entered in
proper form upon the minutes of the court, to be kept for such

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

causes, and the amount thereof for each parcel shall constitute
the compensation to be paid therefor, as hereinafter directed,
before the appropriation thereof shall be made by the petitioner." Sec. 3589. It is specially made the duty of the
court to speed the cause. See. 3590. "An appeal to correct
errors of law only may be had, if applied for within three
months after the assessment, to either the Circuit Court of the
same county or the Supreme Court;

but no appeal

shall, during the pendency of it, prevent or hinder the petitioner from occupying the land involved therein, and proceeding to work thereon; but the petitioner, before doing so, shall
pay into the court, for :the person or persons entitled thereto,
the amount of damages and compensation by the jury therefor
assessed." Sec. 3593. The amount assessed may be paid.to
the person entitled thereto or to the clerk of the court. Sec.
3594.

The Southern Telegraph Company, a New York corporation, being desirous of erecting a line of telegraph from
Montgomery, Alabama, by way of Selma to Meridian, in
the State of Mississippi, filed in the Probate Court of Montgomery County, Alabama,'an application for the proper proceedings under the Code to enable it to acquire the right of
way for that purpose along a line of railroad in Alabama
operated by the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Rail-road Company from Selma to the Mississippi State line. Upon
this application being made the necessary notices were served
on the railroad company to appear on the 10th of April, 1884,
and a jury was summoned for an inquiry into the amount of
compensation to be paid the company for the appropriation
sought. On the day named the railroad company intervened
for its interest and showed cause agaiust the appropriation,
and averred in its intervention that the value of the property to be appropriated was $12,000, and that this was the
proper measure of the. compensation and damages it was
entitled to if the prayer of the petition should be allowed.
On the same day the railroad company filed in the Probate
Court a petition for the removal of the cause to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Middle District of Alabama,

E. TENT., VA. & GA. RR. CO. v. SOUTH. TEL. CO.

309

Opinion of the Court.
on the ground that the value of the matter in dispute exceeded
tha sum of $500, and the telegraph company was a citizen of
New York and the railroad company a citizen of Tennessee.
Under this petition a removal was effected and a jury empanelled in the Circuit Court of the United States "to inquire,
and true assessment make, of the damages and compensation" the railroad company was entitled to have for the appropriation. The compensation was assessed by the jury
at $500, and this amount, as well as the costs, was paid to
the clerk of the court. Thereupqn a judgment was entered
that the telegraph company have and enjoy "the rights, ways
and easements claimed in the petition."
From that judgment this writ of error was brought. The
telegraph company moved, 1, to dismiss the writ because
the value of the matter in dispute did not exceed $5,000,
and, if that motion was not granted, then, 2, that the supersedeas herein might be modified so as to allow it to occupy the
right of way involved in the proceedings, and to work thereon
pending this writ of error.
.3fr. T. A. Guntr and Mr'. H.

C. iSempl

for the motion.

-Mr. Gaylord B. Olark opposing.
MR. CHEF JusTICE WA=rE delivered the opinion of the court.
He stated the facts in the foregoing language, and cohtinued :
The value of the matter in dispute in this court is the difference between the amount of compensation claimed by the railroad company on its intervention and the amount assessed by
the jury. Hiltoi v. Dik,'inon, 108 U. S. 165. There is nothing in the record to show that the alleged value of the property
is not the true measure of the compensation to be assessed. As
this amount is $12,000, and the jury allowed only $500, it follows that the value of the matter in dispute is sufficient to
give us jurisdiction.
This is a proceeding under the statute of Alabama to ascertain the amount of compensation to be paid the railroad company for the appropriation of its property to the uses of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

telegraph company. That is the single question to be settled.
The remedy is statutory only, and every court which takes
jurisdiction for its enforcement is limited in its powers by the
.statute under which alone it can act. It must be assumed for
all the purposes of the proceeding that the telegraph company
has the right to make the appropriation, and that as soon as
just compensation is made it may enter on the property and
put up and work its lines. -It is a proper exercise of legislative
power to provide a way in which the amount of compensation
shall be ascertained where the parties are themselves unable t6
agree. In Alabama this is to be done by-a jury empanelled
in a Probate Court or in a Circuit Court. The .legislature
might have made the action in'these courts final, and not subject to review on appeal or writ of error. If that had been
done, the assessment of the jury, when recorded in the proper
court, would settle finally the amount of compensation to be
paid for the appropriation, unless the assessment should be set
aside for fraud or other sufficient cause in some appropriate independent proceeding instituted for that purpose. IBut it has
been provided that an appeal may be taken "to correct errors
of law only," the effect of which shall not be, however, to prevent the appropriating company from taking immediate possession and proceeding with its works on payment into court of
the sum allowed by the jury.
The courts of the United States, on the removal of the proceeding from the Probate Court, were clothed with no greater
power in the premises than the courts of the State would have
possessed if their jurisdiction had been preserved. It follows
that, as an appeal from the Probate Court to the State Circuit
Court, orlto the Supreme Court, would not have operated to
prevent the telegraph company from taking possession of the
property appropriated, and erecting its wires pending the appeal, the supersedeas on a writ of error from this court to the
Circuit Court of the United States should be limited in the same
way. This provision of the statute is by no means an unusual
one, and was intended to prevent delays in the progress of a
public work ,while the parties were litigating in the higher
courts as to the correctness of a preliminary assessment of com-

OGDENSBURGH RAILROAD v. N. & L. RAILROAD. 311
Syllabus.

pensation to be paid an owner of property taken for the public
use accorling to the forms of law.
[he motion to dismiss because the value of the matter in dipute does not exceed $5,000 is denied; but it is ordered
that the supersedeasITon the writ of errorfrom this court
shall not, during the pendencyj of the writ, Irevent or
hinder the telegraph company from occupying the prerises appropriatedfo, its use and proceeding to erect and
operate its line of telegraph thereon, after it has Paid
into the Circuit Courtfortheperson or corporationentitled
thereto, the amount of damages and compensation assessed

by the jury empanelledin the Circuit Court.

OGDENSBURGHI & LAKE CHAM-PLAIN RAILROAD
COMPANY v. NASHUA & LOWELL RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAT

FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES F'OR

THE DISTRICT OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Submitted October29, 184.-Decided November24, 1884.
Four parties made an agreement respecting transportation of freight. The
parties of the first part were carriers by water to Ogdensburgh. The parties
of the second part were made by the agreement trustees to hold and apply
certain moneys raised for the purpose. The parties of the third part were
owners in severalty of lines over which it was proposed that the freight
brought by party 1 to Ogdensburgh should pass in transit to Boston. ',The
parties of the fourth part were owners of a line of railway between Ogdensburgh & Lake Champlain over which the freight would pass to rcael the
roads of party 8. The agreement, among other things, provided that party
3 should pay to party 2in semi-annual payments apart of the gross receipts
derived from the transportation of this freight, and further that "the party
of the fourth part ill, in case it shall be necessary to secure the regular
and efficient running of said steamers to and from Ogdensburgh, when called
upon by parties of the second part, advance from time to time sums not
exceeding in all $600,000, to be used by said parties of the second part for
the same purposes as said semi-annual payments, and to be pro tanto in lieu
thereof, and to be repaid out of said semi-annual reservation as hereinafter

