SUPREME COURT.

DANJEL F. STIOTHER, PLAINTIFFIN ERAOR V. JOHN

B. C. LucAs,

DEFENDANT.

Ejectment for two lots of ground in St. Louis, Missouri. The plaintiff )iad brought
an ejectment, which was before the Court on a writ of error, in 1832, and the
judgment in favour of the defendant was affirmed. 6 Peters, 763. lie afterwards
brought another action, of ejectment for the, same land. By the Court-Had this
case been identical with the former, as to the merits, we should have followed the
deliberate opinion delivered therein; but as one judgment in ejectment is not conclusive on the right of either -possession or' property in.the premises in controversy, the plaintiff has a right to bring a new suit; and the court must considethe case, even if it is in all respects identical with ho former, though they-may
hold it to be decided by the opinion therein given. It is otherwise whenth e
second case presents a plaintiff's or defendant's right, on matters of law or fact,
matefial to its decision, not before appearing in the record; it then becomes the
duty of the Court to decide all pertinent questions arising on the record, in the
same manner as if the case came before them for the first time, save such as arise
on evidence identical as to the merits. In this case, we deem it a peculiar duty;
.enjoined upon us by the nature of the case, the course of the able and learned
arguments as to the law of Spain and her colonies, in its bearing on the interest;
ing question before us, together with a view of the consequences of our final
decision thereon. Were we to leave any questions undecided which fairly arise
on the record; or to decide the cause on points of minor importance only; the value
of the premises wduld justify future litigation; '~vhich no court of chancery might
think proper to enjoin so long as new and material facts could be developed, or
pertinent points of law remain unsettled.
The sti.te of Missouri was formerly a part, of the territory, first ot rrance, next of
Spain, then 9 f France, who ceded it to the United States by the treaty of 1803,
*in full propriety, sovereignty and dominion, as she had acquired and held it; 2
Peters, 301, &c.: by which this government put itself in place of the former
sovereigns, and became invested with all their rights, subject to their concomitant
obligations to the inhabitants. Both were regulated by the law of nations, according to which the rights of property are protected, even in the case of a conquered
country; and held sacred and inviolable when it is ceded by treaty, with or Without any stipulation to au6h effect; and the laws, whether, in writing, or eidenced
by the usage and customs of 'the conquered or ceded country, continue in force
until altered by the new sovereign.
This Court has also uniformly held that the term "1grant," in a treaty, comprehends
not only those which are-made in form, but also any concession, warrant, order or
permission to survey, possess or settle, whether evidenced by writing or parol, or
presumed from possession; and that in the term "laws," is included custom and
usage, when oce settled; though it may le "comparatively of recent date, and
is riot one of those to 'the contrary of which the memory of man runneth not,
which contributed so much to make up the common law code, which is so justly
venerated."
No.principle can be better established by the authol y of this Court, than " that the

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

411

[Strother v. Lucas,]
acts of an officer, to whom a'public, duty is assigned by his' king, within thb
sphere of that duty, are prima facia taken to be within his, power." IThe principles on hicA it'rests, are believed t6 be too dneply founded in' law and reason,
ever to be successff~lly assailed. He who would jeontrovert a grant execu-tl by
the lawful authority, with all the solemnities required by law, takes on himself
the hurthen of showing that the officer has transcended the powers conferred
upon him; or that the transaction is tainted with fraud."
Where the act'of an officer to pass the title to land according to the Spanish law,
is done contrary to the written order of the king, produced at tho trial, withut
any explanation, it shall be presumed that the poWer has not been exceedea; that
the act was done on the motives set out therein; and according to some order
known to the king and his officers, though not to his subjects: and courts ought
to require very full proof, that he had transcended his powers, before they so
determine it."
Even in cases of c9nquest, the conqueror does no more than displace the sovereign,
arid 'assume dominion over the country. " A cession of territory is. never under.
stood to be a cession of the property of the inhabitants. The king cedes only
that which belongs to him; lands he had previously granted, were not lis to cede.
Neither party could so understand the treaty. Neither party could.consider itself
as attempting a wrong to individuals, condemned by the whole civilized world.
'The cession of a territory' should necessarily be understood to pass the sovereignty only, and not to interfere with private property."
No construction of a
treaty, which would impair that security to private property, wl.ich the laws and
usages of nations would without express stipulation have conferred, would seem
to be ad'isible further than its positive words require. " Without it ,tlib title of
individuals would remain as valid under the new goveriment, as they were tinder
the old; and those titles, at least so far as they were consummate, might be
asserted in the courts of the United States, independently of this article."
The laws of Spain as to the disposition of the royal domain in Louisiana, while
Louisiana was held by Spain.
In the treaty of cession of Louisiana no exceptions were'made, and his Court has
declared that none can thereafter be made'. 8 Peters, 463. The United States
must remain content with that which, contented them at the transfer, when they
assumed the precise position of the king of Spain. The United States have so
remained, as appears by their laws. By the acts of 1804, 1805, 1807, and 1816,

they recognised the law%, usages, and customs of Spain to be legitimate sources
of titles; and, by th(- act of 1812, confirmed to the inhabitants of St. Louis, and
ether villages, according to their several right or rights of common thereto, .the
rights,- titles, and claims to town or villtIge lots, out lots, common field lots, and
commons, in, belonging or adjoining to the same, which titles depended on parolf
grants and local customs. The same recognition extended to grants to actual
settlers, pursuant to such laas, usages and customs; to acts done by such settlers
to obtain a grant of lands actually settled, or persons claiming title thereto, If the
settlement was made before the 20th December, 1803.
The unwritten law of Louisiana, before the cession of the territory-to, the United

States.
In favour of long possession and ancient appropriation, every thing which was dohd

shall be presumed to have been rightfully done; and though it does not appear t&
have been done, the law will presume that whatever was necessary has been done.
A grant may be made by a law, as well as a patent puosuant to a lawt and a con-

SUPREME COURT.
[Strather v. Lucas.]
firmation by a law, is as fully to all intents and purposes a grant, as if it contained
in terms a graht de noeo.
The acts of the commissioners appointed to adjust and settle land titles in Louisiana,
under the acts of congress authorizing and confirming the same, are concludive
a to all titles to lands, which have been-confirmed according to the provisions of
the different acts of congress on the subject.
It is inconsistent with all the acts of congress which have organized boards of commissioners for adjusting land titles, the proceedings of the board, and the laws
which have confirmed them,-that the confirmations of the pommissioners shall
enuro to any other uses, or to any other person, than the person or persons claiming the confirmation: it would defeat the whole object of these laws, and intioduce
inflaite public mischief; were the Court to decide that the confirmations by the
conm issioners and congress, made expressly to those who claim by derivative
titles, did not operate t6 their own use.

IN error to the district court of the United States for the district of

Missouri.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error, exhibited the following statement of the case:"This was an action of ejectment brought by Daniel F. Strother, of
Kentucky, against Jno. B. C. Lucas, of Missotgri) to recover a tract
of land particularly described in the declaration, as follows: "Lying
and being in the city and county of St. Louis, state of Missouri,
containing two arpents in breadth, by forty in depth, or eighty superficial arpents, French measure; one of which arpents by forty was
granted to one Rene Kiersereau and his heirs, by the prbper autho-

rity; and the other, to wit, the northern of said two arpents, was
originally granted to one Gamache and his heirs; aod which said
twoarpents by forty are bounded on the north by a forty arpent lot,
ofiginally granted to one Louis Bissonet; and on the south by a forty
arpent lot, originally granted to one John Baptiste Bequette; and
which said two forty arpent .lots, so above bounded, have been confirmed by the authority of the congress of the United States to the
legal representatives of the.said Rene Kiersereau, and Gamache, respectively."
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and the cause was tried
at the September term, 1835, when there was a verdict for the defendant, and judgment rendered thereon; to reverse which this writ
of error is prosecuted.
By the evidence, it appears that in 1764, the post of St. Louis, in
Upper Louisiana, was first established by the French, under M.

JANUARY TERM, 1838,

413

[Strother v. Lucas.]

Laclede. In May, 1770, the Spaniards, under the treaty of 1762,
took possession of St. Louis, and Upper Louisiana. Between the
year 1764, and 1772, divers grants of land in Upper Louisiana were
made by the French and Spanish authorities, respectively., Amongst
those grants were some forty or fifty, containing each from one arpent
by forty, to four arpents by forty, located in the prairie immediately
west of the then village of St. Louis, and extending some distance
north and south of it. These lots extend westward to the uniform
depth of forty arpents, being parallelograms whose-opposite sides are
on the north and south, forty arp-nts in length; and on the east and
west from one arpent to four arpents.
Some time in the year 1772, a survey was made, as above described, of these lots, by Martin Duralde, the authorized surveyor of
the post of St. Louis.
About that time a fence was established -on the eastern boundary
of the above range of lots, which separated them from the village,
and what was called the commons; there was no division fence, nor
any fence on the western boundary; the lots were contiguous to each
other; but each lot was held separately, and cultivated separitely, by
its proprietor or occupant, who was bound by the regulations of the
post, to keep the fence in front of his lot (or of whatever number of
lots he occupied,) in good repair.
The surveys so made by Duralde, were entered in a book called
the Livre Terrein.
Amongst the lots so surveyed and entered, are the two lots in
question, described and bounded as in the declaration in this cause.
The surveys so entered, and the grants by virtue of which said
surveys were made, Were solemnly recognised and affirmed by the
Spanish lieutenant governor, Don Pedro Piernas; and by his predecessor, the French commandant, S'Ange de Bellerive.
The entry in the Livre Terrein, No. 2,-p. 68, which contains this
recognition of said grants and surveys, has been printed by authority
of congress, and is to be -found in Gales & Seaton's American State
Papers, vol. 3, p. 677. In the entry in the Livre Terrein of the
survey of Gamache's arpent, the grantee is called "Joseph" Gamache. This was a mistake, as is shown fully by the evidence in
the cause. It is conclusively proved that the name of Gamache, the
grantee, was John Baptiste Gamache, and that no such man as "Joseph" Gamache, existed at that time in-Upper Louisiana.

414

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

The defendant admits upon the record, that the grantee, Gamache,
was known as well by the name of John Baptiste Garnache, and of
Baptiste Gamache, as Joseph Gamache; but the fact, as proved in
evidence, .is that his name was John Baptiste Gamache, and none
other.
Immediately after the grants so made to Kiersereau and Gamacne,
they togjk possession of their respective lots, and'commenced the cultivation thereof, as acknowledged owners and proprietors, by virtue
of said grants and. surveys. John Baptiste Gamache continued to
occupy and cultivate' until about January, 1773, when Louis Chancellier took possession; and Rene Kiersereau until about the year
1780, when the said Louis Chancellier succeeded him in. the occupation and cultivation of his lot. Louis Chancellier continued in
possession and cultivation of both these lots, claiming the same as
proprietor thereof by purchase from tlie original grantees, until his
death, in April, 1785. Previous to his death, on his marriage with
Marie Louise Dechamp, a marriage contract was executed between
him and said Marie Louise, by which a communaute, (partnership)
according to theSpanish law, was enacted between them.
On the death of her husband, the said Louis Chancellier, the wid-w,
by virtue of her rights under the communaute, was in lawful posses-sion of the common property of herself and husband, and, consequently, of the two arpents by forty in question. On the 8th June,
1785, an appraised inventory "of all the property, moveable and
moveable, which is ascertained to belong to the said deceased,
(Louis Chancellier,) and to his wife, Dona! Louise Dechamp," was
made in due, foxm bf law, by the lieutenant governor, Don Francisco
Cruzat.
In this inventory, the two arpents in question are described by
their metes and bounds; that is to say, "two arpents and a half of land
in the prairie, bounded on the one side by land of Bequette, on the
other by land of Mr. Bijou." The names of Bijou, or Louis Bissonet, are admitted and proved to mean the same individual.
On the 1 th June, 1785, a petition was presented to the lieutenant
,governor, by said widow and Charles Tayon; the guardian of the property of the infant son of said Louis Chancellier and Marie Louise,.
praying that said property "in their possession," should be sold at
public sale; and on the same day, in pursuance of said petition, an
order of sale was made; and on the day following, to wit, the 12th

JANUARY TERM, 18j8.
[Strother v. Lucas,]

June, 1785, the lieutenant governor, Cruzat, proceeded to sell the property described in the inventory, and did actually sell a considerable
quantity, thereof; and amongst other property, the two arpents described as above, were sold and adjudicated to the said Marie Louise
Chancellier, for-the sum of one hundred and fifty-five livres.
At the Eame sale, on the same day, was also sold the slave Fidel,
belonging to said estate and described in the inventory, to one tIyacinthe St. Cyr,'whose security for the payment of the purchase money, (two thousand one hundred livres,) was Adgust Choteau; the
former signing by his mark in the margin of the sale, the latter signing his name in full thereon. The first article sold was said Fidel,
and the sixth vas the two arpents in question. The sale is declared
to have been made at the dwelling of said widow, "in whose possession are all said goods," (" bienes" in Spanish, which means
"property" generally). Afterwards, by order of the 14th June, 1785,
the sale was suspended for want of competent purchasers, and the
balance unsold ordered to be delivered to the widow at the valuation, on condition that she be charged with the same on final partition between her and her son.
On the 8th June, 1786, on petition by the said widow and guardian, a partition was ordered to be made between the widow and
said infant; and accordingly an account and partition was made,
whereby it appears that said widow was charged with the sum of one
hundred and fifty-five livres, being the price of said two arpents by
forty, by her purchased at the sale of her husband's property. It
appears that the balance coming to'the minor, amounting to six thou..
sand three hundred and thirty-four livres, seven sous, six deniers,
was duly paid over to his guardian; said Charles Tayon, and the sum
of three thousand dollars, (including said lots, valued at one hundred
and fifty-five livres,) duly paid to said widow.
This final settlement and partition was made on the 13th day of
September, 1787, in pursuance of the decree of the governor general, Don Estaban Miro, bearing date 25th February, 1787, all which
is set out at large upon the record.
Thus it appears, that in pursuance of a final decree made by the
supreme authority in Louisiana, the widow of Louis Chancellier was
declared and adjudged to be the lawful owner and possessor of the
said two arpents, bounded as described in the declaration in this cause;
and that the judgment of partition and 'final settlement so made, in

SUPREME COURT.
[Strothdr v, Lucas,]

lavour of said Maria Louisa Chancellier, bears date the 13th day of
September, 1787.
In addition to the above proof of the title of Marie Louise Chancellier to said two lots, the plaintiff gave in evidenhe:1st. An authentic deed of exchange between Jno. B. Gamache,
and said Louis Chancellier; bearing date 23d January, 1773, acknowledged and executed in presence of Don Pedro Piernas, lieutenant
governor of Upper Louisiana; whereby said Jno. B. Gamache, as
original grantee of said one by forty arpents, conveys the, northern
half thereof to said Louis Chancellier, in'exchange.
2d. An authentic deed, dated 6th April, 1781, acknowledged in
presence of Francisco Cruzat, lieutenant governor of Upper Louisiana, whereby Marie Magdalene Robillard conveying to said Louis
Chancellier, one arpent by forty, bounded by Jno. B. Bequette, and
by Jno. B. Gamache's arpept, being the same granted to Rene Kiersereau. In this deed is signed the name of Rene Kiersereau, as
"assisting witness;" and his name also as a party witness, is mentioned in the body of the-deed.
It is in evidence that no other man than the grantee existed in
Upper Louisiana of the name of Rene Kiersereau; and that Marie
Magdalene Robillard,'was the wife of said Rene. Besides this, the
signature of said Rene Kiersereau to this deed is duly proved; as is
also that ofI the lieutenant governor to this deed, and also to that of
Jno. B. Gamache. It is fully proved that said Rene Kiersereau
ceased to occupy or cultivate his lot, from the year 1780; and that
Louis Chancellier immediately succeeded him in the possession and
cultivation thereof- and, as above stated, remained in possession till
his death, in April, 1785.
In September, 1788, the widow of Louis Chancellier intermarried
with one Joseph Beauchamp, and removed to St. Charles, about
twenty miles from St. Louis, on the left bank of the Missouri river.
Some time after the removal of said Beauchamp and wife to St.
Charles, (about 1790,) Hyacinth St.' Cyr, the same who purchased
the slave Fidel at the sale of Louis Chancellier's property, entered
upon the two arpents in question, and commenced the cultivation of
the same by permission of said Marie Louise; which permission,
according to the testimony of said Marie Louise, was given by hey
said second husband, Joseph Beauchamp: and accoi ding to the testimony of Madame St. Cyr, the widow of said Hyacinth St.
Cyr, the

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

syndic authorized said St. Cyr to odcupy and cultivate, and that
afterwards her husband had his deeds from Kiersereau and Gamache,
as her husband told her.
In 1797 or '98, the eastern -and only fence of those forty arpent
lots fell down; and they again became a wilderness, unoccupied and
uncultivated by any body, until some time in the year 1808, when
the defendant took possession of them, and enclosed a part of the
eastern end thereof, under a deed of conveyance from Augustus Choteau, the same Who signed as security for St. Cyr, on the margin of
the record of sale of Chancellier's property, as before stated.
In 1815, under the act of congress of 1812, the above two lots
were confirmed to the legal representatives of the original grantees;
and in said confirmation, the recorder makes special reference to
Livre Terrein, No. 2, pages 11 and 12, in which the surveys in
favour of Kiersereau and Gamache are recorded.
In 1816, byaqt of congress of the 29th April, 1816, sect. 1, the
aforesaid confirmations are ratified.
The plaintiff then gave in evidence a deed of conveyance from
Augustus Gamache, the survivor of the two sons and heirs of John
B. Gamache, of his estate, whatever it might be, in said one by forty
arpents granted to his father, John B. Gamache, to Basil Laroque
and Marie Louise Laroque his wife. Basil Laroque was the third
husband of said Marie Louise, the widow of Louis Chancellier.
The plaintiff then gave in evidence deeds of conveyance duly acknowledged from said Basil Laroque and Marie Louise, of the said
two by forty arpents to George F. Strother, and a 'deed from said
Strother to plaintiff.
Here the plaintiff closed his case, arid the defendant then gave in
evidence:
1st. Two deede , bearing date same day, the 23d October, 1783,
the one purporting to be a conveyance by said Rene Kiersereau to
said Hyacinth St. Cyr, of the one by forty arpents granted to said
Rene Kiersereau; the other purporting to 1e a deed from "1Joseph"
Gamache, of the one by forty, arpents granted to Gamache; and
which deed is signed Batis
Gamache.
In both those deeds it is recited, that for several years previous to
their date said St. Cyr had been in possession, and was then in possession of the lots in question.
The defendant then gave in evidence certain proceedings, dated
VoL. XII.-3 G

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

in 1801, in the matter of Hyacinth St. Cyr, a bankrupt; by which it.
appears, that amongst the property sold by the syndio on that occasion, "'two arpents of land in the first prairie of St. Louis, near the
tower, by forty arpents in depth, bounded on the one side by the
widow Bissonet, and on the other by Mr. Hortiz," were adjudicated
to Mr. Auguste Choteau for twelve dollars.
The defendant then gave in evidence extracts from the proceedings of the board of commissioners, of which board said defendant
was a member; purporting to be a confirmaion of said two arpents
by forty to Auguste Choteau, as assignee of Hyacinth St. Cyr"
assignee of said original grantees.
He also gave in evidence a deed, dated 11 th January, 1808, from
said Auguste Choteau and wife to said defendant, purporting to
convey, in fee, to said defendant, said two arpents by forty; " of
which forty arpents have originally been ceded to Rene Kiersereau,
and the other forty arpents have been originally ceded to Joseph
Gamache, the whole bounded by a tract of land originally conclded
to John B. Beguette, and by another tract originally conceded to
Louis Bissonet; the whole belonging to us, (the said Choteau and
wife,) as having become the purchasers of it at the public sale of
the property of Mr. Hyacinth St. Cyr."
The defendant then read to the jury certain extracts from the proceedings of the board of commissioners, of which'he was a member;
by which it appeared that the said board met at St. Charles on the
3d of August, 1807, and held their session there until the 8th of the
same month and year.
The defendant lastly read in evidence an extract from the record
of a judgment in an action of ejectment for said lots, in, the district
court of the United States, in which the said Daniel F. Strother was,
plaintiff, and said John B. Lucas was defendant; and there closed his
case in defence.
The plaintiff, in reply,, proved by extracts from the records of the
board of commissioners, that the defendant was a member of the
hoard before which Auguste Choteau filed his claim as assignee of
St. Cyr, assignee of the original grantees; arAd that while said claim
was pending, and before any action of the board was had upon it,
Lucas being still a member'of the board, took the deed of conveyance aforesaid, of the l1th January, 1808, from said Auguste, Choteau.
It is admitted on the record, that the plaintiff is a citizen of Ken-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strothep v. 'Lucas.]

tucky, and that the premises in dispute are worth more than two
thousand dollars.
The case being closed on each side, the plaintiff then moved the
court to instruct the jury as follows:
1. rhat there is evidence before the jury of the possession and
title of Rene Kiersereau and John B. Gamache, as absolute owners
and proprietors of the two forty arpents lots described in the declaration.
A. That there is evidence before the jury of the possession and
title of Louis Chancellier, as owner and proprietor of the two forty
arpents lots in question, as assignee of said Rene Kiersereau and said
John B. Garache, respectively.
3. That there'is evidence of the actual possession after the death
of'said Louis Chanceliier by his widow, said Marie Louise, of said
two forty arpents lots, claiming the same as' absolute owner thereof.
4. That the plaintiff has established his title as assignee of Marie
Lou~ise Chancellier, to the estate and interest vested in her and her
heirs, in and to the two forty arpents in question.
5. That the deed' givea in evidence by plaintiff from Auguste
Gamache to Bazil Laroque and Marie Louise, his wife, enures to
the benefit of the plaintiff.
6. That if the jury shall be of opinion from the evidence, that
Hyacinth St. Cyr originally obtained possession of the lots in question, as tenant of Marie Louise, the widow of Louis Chancellier, or
by virtbe of a permission to occupy and cultivate, given to said S4.
Cyr, by the syndic of the village df St. Louis; the lossession of St.
Cyr, so obtained, shall be taken by the jury as, in law, the possession
of said Marie Louise.
7. That the confirmations of the board of commissioners, on the
23d July, 1810, of which the defendant was a member, could, at
most, only operate as a quit-claim by the United States in favour of
the Priginal grantees; and could not decide the question of derivative
title, under said original grantees.
8. That the mere fact of the land described in the confirmation to
Choteu, and the land described in the confirmation given in evidence by the plaintiff, and the declaration being identical, does not
-entitle the defendant to a verdict in his favour.
9. That no forfeitore or disqualification has accrued against Madame Marie Louise, the widow of Louis ChancQllier, or against her
assigns, under any act of congress, whereby she or they are barred

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

from asserting their legal and equitable rights to the lots in question
before this court.
Which instructions were given by the court.
The plaintiff also moved that the following instructions be given
to the jury:
1. That the sale, and partition, and final decree, of which duly certified copies have been-given in evidence by the plaintiff, establish the
title of the widow of Louis Chancellier, Madame Marie Louise Des
Champs and her heirs, to the land described in said sale and partition, as sold and allotted to her, part 'of which said land consists of
the two arpents -by forty in the declaration described, bounded by
Bijou on the one side, and by John B. Bequette on the other.
2. That independently of the title of Rene'Kiersereau and John
B. Gamache, there would be sufficient evicence before the jury to
establish a title by prescription in Louis Chancellier and his heirs,
and Marie Louise, his widow and her heirs, to the two forty arpents
described in the declaration.
3. That Hyacinth St. Cyr took no title by prescxiption in and to
said lots.
4. That if the jury shall be of opinion that Hyacinth St. Cyr had
notice of the sale of said lots to Marie Louise by the proper Spanish
authority, as given in evidence by the plaintiff; the possession of said
Hyacinth St. Cyr of said arpents, was not such as could be adverse
to said Marie Louise, or could create an estate by prescription in
favour of said St. Cyr.
5. That if the jury shall be of opinion from the evidence that St.
Cyr was a purchaser at the public sale of the property of Louis
Chancellier, or signed his name, or made his mark as purchaser on
the margin of said sale; these facts are prima facie evidence that said
St. Cyr had notice of the title of said Marie Louise as purchaser at
said sale of the lots therein described, as §old to her,
6th. That the deeds given in evidence by the defendant from Rene
Kiersereau, bearing datethe 23d of October, 1793, conveyed nothing
to St. Cyr; being made by a person out of possession, and whose conveyance for the same land by another person to Chancellier, was
upon record, and who, therefore, was guilty of the crime. of "Estelionato," punishable by fine dnd banishment, by the Spanish law then
in force.
7th. That the leed .iven in evidence by defendant from Joseph
Gamache to Hyacinth St. Cyr, dated 23d October, 1793, is void, on

JANUARY TERM, 18j8.

42i

[Strother v. Lmcas.]

the ground of '"Estelionato, ' in Batis Gamache, supposing that he
made the deed: 2d, on the ground of uncertainty in the deed itself, in
this, that it purports to be a'deed of Joseph Gamache, and is signed
Batis 4 Ganache.
8th. That Apiguste Choteau took no estate' by prescription in
either of said forty arpent lots in question.
9th. That there is no evidence of possession, whatever, adverse or
otherwise, by Auguste Choteau, of said two forty arpents lots, or of
any, part thereof.
10th. That if the jury shall be of opinion, from the evidence before
them, that the said Auguste Choteau bid notice' of the public sale
of said lots to Madame Marie Louise Chancellier, his possession or
claim to said lots under Hyacinth St. Cyr is fraudulent and void. as
against said Marie, Lofaise and her heirs and a~signs.
11th. That the' certified copy of the proceedings and sale by the
syndic in, the matter of Hyacinth St. Cyr,.'a bankrupt, is not evi.dene either of St..Cyr's title to either of the lots in questicn, or
that the same were sold by said syndic to said Auguste Choteau, as
part of said St. Cyr's property.
12th. That the defendant has shown no title by prescription under
.the Spanish or civil law, or by the statutes- of limitation; (in bar of
plaintiff,) unaer the Anglo-American laws to the lots in question.
13th. That the title of the defeidanf, as assignee of Auguste Choteau, is vitiated by the fraud' which vitiates the title of Choteau and
of St. Cyr.
14th. That the deed from Auguste Choteai and wife to Lucas, of
the lots in question, dated 11th January, 1808, is void for fraud; if in
the opinion of the jury it was a sale and conveyance to Lucas of' a
claim and interest pending before said Lucas himself for adjudication.
15th. That if, in the opinion of the jury, the claim was pending
before Lucas as commissioner when he bought it, the adjudication
or confirmation of it on the 23d July, 1810, by the board of conmissioners, of which Lucas'was a member, is fraudulent and void at
law and in-equity.
16th. That neither the statute of limitation, nor the Spanish law of
prescription can avail the defendant, Lucas, independently of' the
possession of St. Cyr and Choteau.
17th. That the orders of survey given in evidence by the defendant, and made by hims'lf and his.two colleagues in., favour of
'Auguste Choteau, bearing dat.6 June'10, 1811, was fraudulent and

SUPREME, COURT.
fStrother'v. 'Lcca.)

void; if the jury shall be of opinion, from the evidence that the
claims therein ordered to besurveyed- had been sold to said defendant by said Choteau previpus to the date of said order, and while
said claims were pending' for adjudication before said defendant, as
order mentioned.
a member of the board f comnissioners, in said
S18th. That if any penal effect resulted from any act of congress to
Mad. Chancellier and her assigns, or to the legal representatives' of!
Rene Kiersereau and J. B. Gamache; the act of congress of January!
1831, entitled "1an act further supplemental to the act entitled an act
making further provisions for settling the claims to lands in the territory of Missouri,' passed the thirteenth day of ,June, one thobsand
'eight lhiindred and twelve'; remits the parties to their original legal
and equitable rights and titles, as if no such. penal acts bad ever been
in force.
19th. That upon the case made by plaintiff he is entitled to a verlict for all that part of the two forty arpents lotq inquestion, situated
west of 7th street, in St. Louis, and all the lots east of 7th street, according to the-admissions of defendant as above.
20th. That in this case there is no law or binding ordinance of the.
Spanish government, by which Madame Chancellier and thpse claiming under her could be deprivedj according to the state of the evide*ce in this case, of Whatever title she acquired to the land in
question, under tle purchase made of it by heras the property of
her husband.
21st. That if the jury believe from the evidence that St. Cyr
ceased to cultivate and be in actual, possession of the premises indis-,
pute from 1797 or. 1798, prescription ceased to run in his favour,
and that of those who claim under him from that time.
Which instructions the court refused to give; but instructed the
jury in relation to the 'matters referred to in the first instruction
above refused: "that the sale, and partition, and final decree, the
record of which certified copies have been given in evidence by the
plaintiff, did pass the title of Louis Chancellier, mentioned in said proceedings of sale, such as it was at the time of his death, or such 'as it
was in his heirs at the time of said sale to Madame Marie Louise5 his
widow,,mentioned in said proceedings, and her, heirs'to the lands
described in said record of sale and partition, as sold and allotted to
her."
And further instrinted the jury, in relation to the matters mentioned in the fifth instruction above refused: "that if the jury should

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

be of opinion that St. Cyr, under whom the defendant claims, was a
purchaser at said public sale of the property of said Louis Chancel-,
lier, or did sign, his name or ,make his mark on the margin of the
record of said sale; these facts, or either of them, is evidence proper
for them to consider in ascertaining whether said St. Cyr hdd notice
of the said title of -said Marie Louise as purchaser at the said sale of
the lots described in the record thereof as sold to her.:'
And further instructed the jury in relation to the matters referred
'to in the eleventh instruction above refused: "that the certified copy
of the proceedings and sale by the syndic of the property and estate
of St. Cyr as a bankrupt, was not evidence of a title to said St. Cyr to
the lots in question, or either of them."
And further instructed the jury in, relation to the matters referrecd
to in the twelfth instruction above -refused, and to the statutes of
limitation referred to in that refused instruction: " that the defendant had shown no title to the lots in question, nor any bar to the
plaintiff's recovery under any statute or statute's of limitation."
And further instructed the jury in relation to the matters referred
to in the sixteenth instruction above refused: "that the statute of
limitations could not avail the defendant Lucas, either with or independent of the possession of St. Cyr."
And 'further instructed the jury in relation to the matters referred
-to in the eighteenth instruction above refused-: "that 'although the
act of congress of the 31st of January, 1831, referred to in said refused instruction last mentioned, does not'remit the penalties as in
that refused instruction is-supposed by the plaintiff;, yet, that in fact
no penal effect results from any act of congress which bars or stands
in the way of plaintiff's recovery in the present action, or which in
any manner affects his title, or evidence of title, undpr, or to be derived from said acts,, or any of them, under the admissions of the
parties in the present case."
The -counsel for the plaintiff excepted to the opinion of the court
in refusing to give the several instructions; as well as to the opinion
of the court in giving the instructions which they did give.
The defendant then moved the court to instruct the jury as follows:
ist. That if the jury find from the evidence tlhat Hyacinth St.
Cyr, and those lawfully claiming under him, have possessed the two
arpenta by forty, surveyed for Gamache and Kiersereau, without in-

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

terruption, and with claim of title for thirty years, consecutively, prior
to 1818, the plaintiff is not 'entitled to recover in this action.
gd. If the jury find from the evidence, that Hyacinth St. Cyr, and
those lawfully claiming under him, possessed, the two lots 'inthe
declaration mentioned for ten years, consecutively, prior to ahd until
the 23d day of July 1810;'and that the lands confirmed to Auguste.
Choteau on that day are the'sam'e lands in the declaration mentioned, the plaintiff cannot recover in this action.
3d. If the jury find from the evidence that the defendant possessed
thelots of land in the declaration mentioned for ten'years, consecutively, prior to the Ist of October, 1818, the plaintiff cannot recover
ind this aoion.
Which iiistructions the court gave to the jury, with the further
instruction; "That the possession mentioned must be an open and
notorious possession; arid that if they should find, such possession, it
gave title under, and acc6rding to the Spanish or civil law, which
,was in force in Upper Louisiana at the' date of the treaty by which
Louisiana, was -acquired by the United States; and remained in foiee
and unabr'ogated by-any law of the district of Louisiana or of Missouri'down to a period as late as'October, 1818. That the posseisibn
of.ten oi thirty years would give a title, the one'period or the other,
according to the circumstances under which the possession was obtained. That the ten years possession which would give a prescriptive title, must be a possession under a purchase made in good faith;
and where the purchaser believed that the person of whom he purchased had a good title; and where the owner of the title prescribed
against resided in the same country during the said ten years. That
if the "jury believe fromr the evidence, that the possession of St.
Cyr, under whom the-defendant claims, was obtained under a purchase made by him in good faith, and under. the belief that the peeson of whom he purchased had a-good title; and that the pdssession
of Choteau, under whom the defendant claims, was obtained in like
manner, and under a purchase made with the like belief; and that
they had the possession mentioned in the second. instruction asked
for 'on the part of the defendant; and that the said Marie Louise was
in the country during the said ten'years: the plaintiff 6annot recover
in this' action."
And 'further instructed the jury in relation to the possession mentioned in the fhird instzluction asked for on the part of the defendant,
"that to make the possession there mentioned a bar to the plaintiff's

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother v. Lucas.1-

recovery in the present action, the possession of the defendant must
have been obtained under a purchase, where he believed that, the
person of whom he purchased had a good- title; and that the said
Marie Louise was in the country during the said ten years, which,
unless the jury believe, they cannot find for the defendant upon such
possession."
To which opinion the plaintiff excepted.
Afterwards the judge, of his own motion, further instructed the
jury as follows:
That-the possession which the said Louis Chancellier had at the
time of his death passed to his heirs, and afterwards to his widow,
the said Marie Louise, under 'the .purchase made by her at the said
public, sale of the estate of the said Louis, and that the possession of
the gaid Marie Louise would be presumed to conti. -in her and her
heirs, until an adverse possession was shown; and woulu continue in
her, her heirs or assigns, until an adverse possession was 4ctually
taken.
And. further instructed the jury, that if they should find from the
evidence that said St. Cyr took possession, or was in possession of
the lands in controversy, or iny. of them, under the said Marie
Louise, or as her' tenant, his possession, so taken or held, would be
the possession of the said Marie Louise, and would not be a possession in St. Cyr, available by him or those claiming under him, under
the law of prescription mentioned. But, that if the jury should be
ofopinion that said St. Cyr came to the possession of the land in
controversy, not as the tenant of the said Marie Louisei or under

her, but under a claim and title adverse to her, such adverse claim
and possession would constitute a possession upon which a prescription, by the Spanish or civil law referred to, and then in force,
yould begin to run in favour of him, and those claiming under him,
if such possession was actual, open, and notorious; and that such
possession, so commenced, would constitute' and preserve to said St.
Cyr, his heirs or assigns, a possession, available under the law of
prescription referred to, notwithstanding said St. Cyr, or those deriving title from him, should leave the actual possession, or cease to
occupy and cultivate, if that abandonment of the actual possession,
occupancy, or cultivation, was with the intention to return, and without any mental abandonment of the possession.
And further instructed the jury, that if they should be of opinion
from the evidence, that Rene Kiersereau, under whom the parties
Voyr. XII.-3 H

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

claim,. did attest the sale of the lot in controversy, which both
parties,.,in the present case, claim under him, alleged to be made
by Marie Reno Robillia to said Louis Chanellier, by becoming
a siibscribi'ng Witness to the ihstr'ment of sale in"'evidence on behalf of .the plaintiff, 5nd purporting.to be signed .by said Marie
Reno Robillia, and that said Rene Kiprsereau, at the. time of .becoming such subscribing witness, was the husband of said Marie
Reno, the title of said Rene Kiersereau wopild, from his presumed
assent to said sale, and presumed receipt of the consideration expressed in said instrument as the husband of said Marie Renno,
in presumption of law, pass by said sale to Louis Chancellier. That
the subscribing witnesses to a sale in writing, made before a notary
or other officer acting as such, are presumed to have been.. informed
of the contents of the written instrument of siale, because, by the
civil or Spanish law referred" to, which was in force in Louisiana,
it was the duty of the n6tary oi other officer to make known to the
witness, as well as to the parties, the contents of the writing which
they "attested and subscribed. But that the jury would coi sider,
from the evidence, and the circumstances in eyidence, in this case,,
-whether the said Rene, being the; husband of the -said Marie Reno,
did become the subscribing witness to said instrument. And if they
should be of opinion that he did not, oT. that the same is fraudulent,,
as against him, his title was not passed by the alleged sale. That if
the jqry find that the title of said Rene Kiersereau did pass by said
sale to said Louis Cbancellier, and that the land so acquired by him,
and also the, land derived by the plaintiff under said Gamache, are
the said lands mentioned in the declaration; they will find a verdict
for the plaintiff for those lands, or, so much thereof as are described
in the leclaration: unless they find that the title has been lost by
him, or those under whom he claims by prescription, according to
the principles already stated by the court.
And further instructed the jury, that if they should find from the
evidcence, that the residue of the land mentioned, in the declaration,
or any part thereof, was in the possession of Louis Chancellier at the
time of his death, and that he and those, claiming under-him had
such possession for thirty years, consecutively, they would find for
the plaintiff, for such residue, so possessed; unless they should find
that his right,, so acquired; had been lost by prescription, under an
adverse possession, according to the principles already stated.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother v. Luoas.]

The case was.argued by Mr. Lawless and Mr. Penton for the plaintiff in error: and by Mr. Geyer aid Mr. Jones for 'the defendant.t
In support of the assignment' of errors in this case the plaintiff'A
counsel contended:
.1.That the lots in question constituted a propeity in the granteea
tJaereof, and their heirs or assigns; which was protected'and guaiantied 'by the treaty of cession of Louisiana. b France to the Tfnitedl
States.
g. That pt the date of the treaty of cession: of Louisiana by France
to the United States,. the lots in question' were Vested, by title oftthe
highest order, in Marie Louise, the widow of Louis Chancellier; who
died in April, 1785.
3. That the original grant of said lots, respectively; has not only
been vested, by title of the highest order, in Marie Louis% as far as
said title could be given by'the supreme power in Louisiana, while
a province of Spain; but hassince, been confirmed by the government
of the: United States to sai& origiinal grantees and their, legal represenitatives.
4. That ,at the date of saiOl confirmation by the.United States, ,the
said Marie Louise, the 'widow ,of Louis Chancellier, was, the true
assignee and legal representative of the said original grantees..
5. That thetitle of said Marie Louise and of said original graotees
is now fully vested in the plaintiff.
6. That the title' of the plaintiff, as assignee of Marie Louise, the
widow of Louis Chancellier, to the lots in question, has' been fully
inade out and established by the evidence in this cause; and has not
been:invalidated'or'rebutted by the defendant, either by showing a
better title'under th6 original grantees, or by showing a title in him
by prescriptioni or limitation, or forfeiture, or escheat; or by establishing any ,&hr title adierse to that of plaintiff.
Mr. Justice BALDWIi4 delivered the opinion of the Court:
The' Dlaintiff brought an ejectment in the district court of MisThe reporter has been most kindly furnished with the arguments of Messrs.
.Lawless and Beniton, the counsel for the plaintifi, which has'been prepared, by Mr.'
lawless vih great ability and learning. It Was his wish and.intention to insert it Iin
the' report of the case, had 'he received the argument for the defendant in time. The
argument. for the plaintiff will be found In the "Appendix ';" 'where will also be
found the argument for the defendant, should it b&received before -thecompletion of
this 7olume.

SUPREMEF COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

souri, to recover possession of two pieces or tracts of land, formerly
common field lots adjacent to the village, and now part of the city of
St. Louis; g verdict and judgment was rendered- for the defendant,
on which the plaintiff brought his *rit of error. The whole merits
of the case have been brodght before u, by the whole evidencegiven
at the trial, and forty-three instructions asked, refused, or given,
spread out in the record; which present a case of great interest, as
well in reference to the value of the property in controversy, as the
principles which are necessarily irnvolved in its decision.
Both parties claim under Rene Kiersereau, and John B. Gamache;
each of whom were in possession of one of these lots, at a very early
period after- the founding the village of. St. Louis in 1764, while
Louisiana was under the dominion of France, though she bad ceded
it to Spain two years before by the secret treaty of Fontainebleau.
Spain took possession of the province in 1769-70, from which time
she held it till she ceded it to France in 1800; the laws of Spain were
established in it, but the title of those who had received grants from
the local authorities, or made settlements, either in the villages or on
the public domain, before the actual surrende of the province by
'France, were respected. Accordingly it appears, that in 1772, the
following instrument was executed between the French and Spanish.
governors, which is found in the 3d Vol. Am. State Papers-Public
Lands, ahd is of the tenor and purport following:
Translation of a French document marked C., published in the third
volume of the American State Papers-Public Lands, p. 67,"truly
ahd faithfully made and written by me, Robert Green how, translator of foreign languages in the departmept of state of the United
States.L-Washington, February, 26, 1838.
Cadastie* formed by me, Martin Duralde, surveyor, appointed
by Mons. Don Pedro Piernas, captain of infantry, and lieutenant
governor of the establishments and other dependencies of the Spanish
government' of the Illinois, and deposited in the archives of the said
government 'in form' of proces-verbal, to serve to designate the
various tracts of larid granted in the name of.the king to the inhabitants of this post of St. Louis; as well by title [deed] as by verbal
consent,' by the chiefs who have governed them from the foundation
Note by the translator.-A cqdastre is an official statement of the quantity and
value of real property in any district, made for the purpose of justly apportioning
the taxes payable on such property.-R. G.

JANUARY TERM, 1838

429

[Strother v. Lucas.]

[of the government] to this moment, which I have surveyed; and
which, after the exchanges, cessions or sales which may have been
made of them, for the convenience or advantage of each person, are
actually in the possession of the persons hereinafter named, agreeably
to their own attestations and reciprocal acknowledgments, situated in
the prairies contiguous to this same post, in the order and according
to the directions detailed as follows:.
I thus attest it by my signature, and by the unanimous acknowledgments of all the abovementioned proprietors, assembled at this
moment,'with the approbation of my said Sr. Don Pedro Piernas, in
the chamber of the government, to serve as mutual witliesses, and'to
affirm the fact, some by their signatures, the others, from not being
able to sin, by their declarations in presence of Messrs. Don Pedro
Piernas, the abovementioned lieutenant governor, and Don Louis St.
Ange de Bellerive, retired captain and first predecessor in command
of this said post, both serving, to wit: the latter, to certify by his
signature, in'his said quality, and in virtue of the power confided to
him, that he had granted either by title [deed] or verbally he abovementioned lands, in the name of his majesty (the king of France);
and my said Sr. Piernas,,to approve, confirm and ratify likewise, by
his signature, in his actual character of lieutenant governor, whereby
he is provided with the same power of granting [conceder] the possessions allowed to be good [aecord~es]* by mysaid Sieur de St.
Ange,'and specified in the body of this cadastre, which I deposite,
containing sixty-eight pages of Writing, including the present, in the
archives of this g6vernment, to be there preserved fotever, and to
serve for the uses, the assurance, authenticity and testimony of all
therein set forth, at St. Louis, on the twenty-third of May, in the
year one thousand seven hundred and seventy-two.
M. Duralde,
Amable Guyon,
Laclede ILiauest,
Sarpy,
Dodie,
Cotte,
A. Conde,
St. Ange,
Rene Kiersereau,
Pedro Pi4nas.
Becquet.
M. P. Leduc, T. B. C. L. T.
St. Louis, January 7, 1812.
True extract from the Livre Terrein, Book N. 2.
Note by the translator.-The French word conceder means to grant ; accorder,
among many significations, of which to grant is bne, has that of acknowledging or
declaring any proposition to be good or true; and from the context, such appears to
be its sense in the paper here translated. R. G.

$UPEME COURT.
[Stfother v. Lucas.]

Pursuant to this most solemn act, surveys were made of the lots
fespectively claimed and possessed by Kiersereau and Gamache, by,
the public surveyor, and entered of record on the land book of the
province; and they continued in the quiet enjoyment of the lots from
that time, as they had previous y held them according to tha laws,
usages,and customs of France, while "under the government of the
province Of the Illinois.
The plaintiff-claims the prenises in controversy under and in right
of Kierseieau and Gamache,'by the follo.wing chaiii of title.
1 By a deed made in 1781, from Maile Magdalena Robellar, the
wife of Rene -Kibrsereau, to Louis Chancellier, conveyifng one of the
lots in question, (being the One. owned by Kiersereau,) containing
one arpent in front, by forty in depth, to which, as the plaintiff alleged,
Kiersereau was an assisting witness, 'whereby his right passed to the
grantee of his' wife, accotding to the law of Spain, in force in the
province.',. The consideration was f6ur hundred livres, equal to eighty
dollars.
2. By
deed of exchange, made in 1773, between Chanc'ellier
and Gamache, whereby the latter. conveyed to 'the former one-half
of his lot, being ,one-half arpen t in front by forty back) in exchange
for an ox; and'a half fron. a pent,.by ,the same depth, which'Chancellier had; owned before.
Both deeds were executed in the hall of the government, in the
presence of the'local governor, and signed by him. The witnesses
of assistance' to'the lattei were, Xf. iDuralde, the surveyor general, and
Alvarez, a srgednt in the garrison; to the formr the witnesses of
assistance were, a§: named. in the concluting clause of the deed,
" Rene Gueircero," and in the attestation, "Rene. Kirgeaux," and
Louis Rover.
3. By a deed tromone of the heirs, of Gamache, conveying to
Basil and Marie Lohie Laroque (formerly Madame Chancellier,) his
right in a id to the remainining half of Gamache's lot, for the consideration of one dollar. This, de6d bears date. 22d June, '1827.
4. By deeds from Laroque, and w'ife, inae in March,187 and
September, 1828, conveying to George'F, Strother, the two arpents
by forty,.to which she claimed right under Gamache, Kiersereau, and
Chancellier, 'in coisideration of three hundred dollarq.
5. By deed from George F. Strother to Daniel F. Strother, t.he
plaintiff, dated July, .1827, conveying the premises in controversy to
him for the consideratioAi of three hundred dollars.

JANUARY TItRM, 1898.
[Strothpr v. Lucas.]

The title of Laroque and-wife is thus deduced:
Louis Chancellier took possession of the lots conveyed to him as
before,, held and cultivated there till his death, in 1785; when, by a
judicial proceeding' beforethe lieutenant governor, in.his judicial capacity, conducted in conformity with the laws of Spain, the whole
estate of Chancellier was inventoried, and apprised by sworn appraisers; the result of which- was, thata final adjudication was. made
in 1787 by the governor, which was signed by him and the parties
concerned, who consented thereto. By this adjudication, the real
and personal estate of Chancellier, after, the payment of,his debts, was
divided between his widow and their only child, accqrding to the,
laws of distrilution in the prdvince; the one and a-half arpents were
allotted to the widow at one hundred and'fifty-five livres, equal to
thirty-one dollars, for the sixty arpents, being fifty-'one cents per
atpent: the half arpent was, also allotted to, her at eight livres, equal
to one, dollar sixty cents for the twenty arpepts, being eight cents
per arpent; which is a little more than four-fifths of the English acre,
the proportion between them being as one .hundred of theformer to
eighty-five of the latter.
Madame Chancellier married again in 1787 or' 8, about two and
a-half years after Chancellier's death, and immediately removed
with her husband, oneBeauchamp, to St. Charles, a village about
twenty or twenty-fiye miles from St.- Louis; where she continued
to reside, without making any claim to-the lots, till about 1818:
.and no suit was brought to recover possession theteof till the present
plaintiff prosecuted his claim, under her right,.in the, case betwen the'
same parties, reported in 6 Peters, 763.
Waiving, for the present, the consideration of a question raised
at the trial, whether Rene Gueircero, or Rene Kirgeaux, was the real
and true Rene Kiersereau, the, rightful owner of part of the property
in controversy between the parties, or anotber person,,we are clearly
of opinion, that Madame Chancellier, in 1787, had a good title to the
forty arpents formerly, owned by Kiersereau, and the twenty arpents
conveyed in exchange by Gamache to Charieelliei, in siich right, arid
by such tenure aswas given and prescribed by the laws of Spain,
and the province, which will, be hereafter considered; and that we
cannot now questionthe validity of those acts of the local governor,
whether acting in his political or judicial capacity, for reasons hereafter to be given.
As to the twenty arpents held by Gamache, there is'no written

432

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.'

evidence that his right thereto was ever conveyed in whole or part,
before 1827, to the plaintiff, or any person under whom he claims;
nor is there to be found in the record, any other evidence of any
right thereto in Chancellier, unless it may have been by possession or
mere claim. We- find in the inventory and appraisement of his estate, in 1785, that the sixty arpents were then in wheat, valued at
six hundred livres, equal to one hundred and twenty dollars, or
two dollars per arpent, with the crop in the ground; and the twenty
arpents, valued at fifteen livres, equal to three dollars, or fifteen cents
per arpent; also that the whole- eighty arpents were allotted to the
widow, by the final adjudication in 1787. This is, undoubtedly,
evidence of a claim by Chancellier, and its recognition by the local
authorities, of its rightful existence, so far as it extends, coimpetent
for the court below, and jury, to consider. But, for the present, we
shall take these proceedings, and any possession by Chancellier, as
not operating, per se, to divest the lawful title of Gamache to the
twenty arpents, such as it was under the laws of Spain, the acts of
the local. authorities, and his possession and cultivation pursuant
thereto. Whether there is any evidence in the record which -an
have that effect, will be a matter for future consideration, should it
be deemed important.
Thus taking the plaintiff's title, we proceed to state that of the defendant, who claims inder and in right of Hyacinth St. Cyr, who,
about 178$, took possession of the two lots, and continued to cultivate the front thereof for ten consecutive years, till 1798, 99, when
the fence having been destroyed, the lots remained open till 1808.
St. Cyr claimed in'virtue of a parol sale by Madame Chancellier to
him, after the adjudication, byhis possession delivered to him by the
local officer, charged with the supervision of the common field lots
of the village; agreeably to the local laws, its usages and customs,
conformab)y to the laws of Spain, together with' his uninterrupted
cultivation as aforesaid.
2. By two deeds, one from Kiersereau, the other from Gamache,
both dated 23d October,. 1793, both originials, found among a great
number of deeds in the aneient archives of the country, delivered and
handed over to the'recorder of St. Louis county, after the cession in
1803, and both executed by the parties, in the presence of, and
signed by the governor, with the attestation of two witnesses of assistance. Each deed conveys the lot owned by tho grantor, with a
clause of warranty, reciting' St. Cyr as having been in possession

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother v..Lucas.]

several years; that of Kiersereau being for, the coitsideration of five
hundred andtwenty-five, and that of Gamache, for three hundred
livres; equal to one hundred and sixty-five dollars for both.
3. By the following eitries on the Land Book, containing the record of the official 'survey for Rene Kiersereau, "1793, St. Cyr, 1
Arpent;" ania the following on the survey of "Joseph Gamacbe,
1793; St. Cyr, 1 Arpent; name of said Gamache is Baptiste, instead
of Joseph;" 'which 'entries must be taken to denote, that, St. Cyr then
claimed the lots under the parties for whom the original surveys
were made and recorded.
4. By a judicial proceeding against St. Cyr, as a bankrupt, had
before'the lieutenant governor, in his judicial capacity, in 1801, by
which the two lots were seized, appraised by sworn appraisers 'at
ten dollars, and sold to Auguste Choteau, as the property of St. Cyr,
at the church door, at the conclusion of high mass, for twelve dollars, payable in peltries at the current price, 'in April, 1802; for
which one Sanguinet was security. The whole proceeding in the
sale: was executed in the presence of the witnesses of 'assistance; one
of whom was the suryeyor ,general; the appraisers, St. Cyr, the 'syn,
'die, and the lieutenant governor, who all signed the proceedings.
5. By the proceedings of the board of commissioners of the United
States, for adjusting land titles in Missouri, in 1809, and 10, by
Which it appears that'Choteau filed'his claim to these lots in 1806,
according to the acts of congress, as the assignee of St. Cyr, assignee
of Rene Kiersereau, and Joseph Gamache. He produced to the
board the concessions for the same, registered in thd Livre Terrein,
plots of the surveys, copies of the deeds from Kiersereau and Gamache, to St. Cyr, with a certified -copy of the proceeding of bankruptcy against him, by which Choteau became the purchaser of the
two lots; and that the board, consisting of Mr. Penrose andBates,
confirmed the lots to Chpteau, according, to the recorded surveys in
the Land Book, No. 2, folio 11.
6. By a deed from Auguste Choteau to the' defendant; d4ted in
January, 1808, conveying him the two lots in question, for the consideration of four hundred and fifty dollars.
7. By the confirmation of the, rights,'titles and claims to town or
village lots, out lots, common field lots, aind commons, adjoining or
belonging to the town of St..Louai§, and 'others, which have been
inhabited, cultivated, or possessed, prior to the 20th December, 1803,
Vo1

XIT.-31

SUPREME' COURT.
[Strother v. Luoas.]

to the inhabitants thereof, according to 'their several right or rihts
in common thereto.
8, By the actual continued possession of the two lots by the dfendant, from 1808 till the trial, as then admitted-by the plaintifE
Waiving at present the question which. arose below as to the identity of the Gamache who conveyed to St. Cy r in 1792, with' the
Gamache who was the owner of.the lot, on account of the name of
"Joseph Gamache," being in the granting part of the deed, and the
mark of "Baptiste Gamache" at the foot, with the mark of Hyacinth
St. Cyr, as has been done in relation to the similar objection to the
deed from M. M. Robillar to Chancellier, in 1781; we are 'cleatly
of the opinion, that the title of the defendant put be held valid
unless the plaintiff has sustained some of his Objections thereto, by
the law, or the facts of the case, as.they appeared 'from the evidence,
on which the instructions of the court musM be taken to be fou'nded,
as the subject matter, to which a reference is necessarily made by
the counsel in the court below.
When this cause was before us in 1832, it was decided on the
case, as made out by the plaintiff on' the 'trial; the defendant offered
no,evidence; and neither court'did or could decide on the rights 'of
the parties, as they may' depend on the record , written and parol
evidence, presented for consideration in the' present record. Had
'this case been identical with the former, as to the merits, we should
have followed the deliberate opinion' delivered therein; but as one
judgment in ejectment is not conclusive on the. right of either possession or properiy ii dihe premises in controversy, the plaintiff has a right
to bring a new suit;' and the court must consider the case, even if it
is in all respects identical wjththe former: though they may hold
it to be decided by the opinion therein given. It is otherwise, when
the second case: presents a plaintiff or deferidant's right, on matters
of law or fact, materialto its, decision,.not appearing in 'the record
before; it then becomes the duty of the Court to decide all pertinent
questions arisifig on the .record, in the same manner as if the 'case
came before them for the first time, save such as ,'arise on evidence
identical as to the merits. In this case, we deem it a peculiar duty,
enjoined upon us by the nature of the case, the course of the able
and learned arguments as to. the law-of Spain and her colonies, in its
bearing on the interesting question before us; together with a view
of the consequences of our final decision thereon. Were we to leave
any questions undecided which fairly arise on the record, Qr to de-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother V.LucasJ

cide the cause on points of minor importance only, the Value of the
premises would justify future litigation; which no'court of chancery
might. think proper to enjoin so long as new and material facts could
be develop~d, or.pertinent points of law remained unsettled.
There is another consideration- of imnpeious consequence in relation to the rights of property claimed by virtue of public or private
grants,, of, sales by judicial process,. by formal deeds, or informal
writings by pai'ol agreements, or by possession alone, for long time,
in all parts of the country; especially those new and flourishing, and
most emphatically, when the' property was originally held under
the laws and usages of a 'oreign government; and above all, in such
a case as this.
By the recora evidence before us of judicial sales, wlch, by the
admitted laws of Spain, transfer to ithe vendee both title, and possession in virtue of adjudication, which, after the lapse of fifty-one years
after 'one such sale, and thirty-seven .ofthe other, we must, on every
principle of law take, as importing absolute verity in all things
contained in such record; and not suffer it to be questioned. It appears by a record thereof,, that the right of Chancellier was sold in
1787, for thirty-two dollars and sixty cents; and of St. Cyr, in 1801,
for twelve dollars; the aggregate of both sales being only forty-four
dollars sixty cents,, a sum not sufficient to pay the printing in this
case. What -thevalue of, the premises now is, or may be in future,
cannot well be known; but as the law of this case is the law' Of all
similar ones now existing, or Which may arise, it is our plain duty
to decide it on such principle. That while we do as'the law enjoins,
respect ancient titles, possession and appropriation, give due effect
to legal presufnptions, lawful acts, and to the general and local laws,
usages, and customs of Spain and her colonies; we do not adjudge a
title to be in either party,. which rests on. acts incompetent tc vest,
transfer, or hold property, in opposition to that party in whom the
right exists, by the laws of the land, and established rules and 15rinciples, which vest property and regulate its transmission and enjoyment.
The state in which the premises are situated was formerly a part
of the territory, first of France, next of Spain, then of France, who
ceded it to the United States by the treaty of 1803, in full propriety,
sovereigbty and dominion, as she had acquired and held it; 2 Peters,
301, &c.: 'by which this government put itself. in place of the former
sovereigns, and became invested with all their rights, subject to their

SUPREME COURT
[Strother v. Lucas.]

concomitant obligations to the inhabitants. 4 Peters, 512; -9 Peters,
734; 10 Peters, 330, 335, 726, 732,,736. Both were regulated by
the law of nations, according to whien the rights of property are
protected, even in the case of a conquered country, and held sacred
and inviolable when it is ceded ky treaty, with or without any
stipulation to such effect; and the laws, whether in writing, or
evidenced by the usage and customs of the conquered or ceded country, continue in force till altered by the new sovereign. 8 Wheat.
589; 12 Wheat. 528, 535; 6 Peters, 712;-7 Peters, 86, 87; 8 Peters,
444, 465;' 9 Peters, 133, 734, 747, 748, 749; Cowp. 205, &c.; 2
V~s. jr. 349; 10 Peters, 306, 330,'721, 732, &c. This Court has defined property to be any right, legal or equitable, inceptive, inchoate,
or, perfect, which before the treaty with France in 1803, or with
Spain. in 1819, had so attached to any piece or tract of land, great
or small, as to affect the conscience of the former sovereign, " with
a'trust," and make him a trustee for an individual, according to the
law of nations, of the sovereign himself, the local usage or custom of
the colony or district; according to the principles of justice, and rules
of equity. 6 Peters, 709, 714; 8 Peters, 450; 9 Peteis, 133, 144,
1.37; 10 Peters, 105, 324, 331, 35, 36. The same principle has
been applied by this Court, to the right ofa Spanish town, as a municipal corporation, 10 Peters, 718 to 736; passim, 144, 734, 736;
10 Peters, 105, 324, 331, 335, 336., Vide also i Ves. seh. 453;' 2
Bligh, P. C. N. S. 50, &6.
This Court has also uniformly held that the term grant, in a treaty,
comprehends not only those which are made in form, but also aiy
concession, warrant, order or permission to survey, possess or settle,
whether evidenced by writing or parol, or presumed from possession;
(vide the cases last cited,). 8 Peters, 466-7; 9 Peters, 152, 17.0; 10
Peters,, 331-40; S. P. -10 Peters, 718, &c.; and that in the term laws,
is included custom and usage, when, once settled.; ihough it may be
"comparatively of recent date, and is not one of those to the contrary of which the memory of man runneth 'not, which contributed'
so much to make up the common law code, which is so justly venerated." 9 Wh. 585. Its evidence consists in the sense and :understanding of parties in their contracts, which are made 'with reference to sudh usage or custom: for the custom then, becomes a part
of the contradt, 'and may not improperly be considered the law of
the contract, and it rests on the same principle 'as the lex loci. "All"
contracts are to be governed by the law of the place where they

JANU'ARY TERM, 1838.

437

[Strother v.' Lucas.]
are to be performed; and this law may be, and usually is proved as
matter of fact." The rule is adopted for the purpose of carrying into
effect the intention and understanding, of the parties. 9,Wh. 588;
S. P. 12 Wh. 167-8, 601; 5 Wh. 369; 6 Peters, 715, 771; 8 Peters,
372; 9 Peters, 734-5; 10 Peters, 331, 712, 724-9, 730; as universally 'Understood and admitted, 9 Peters, 145, by the people of the
vicinage, 5 Wh. 384; as considered'by the public for years, 10 Peters,
722; 11, Peters, 53; and a right so acquired is as inviolable as if it
was founded on a written law. 9 Peters, 145. 'It exists by' a common right, which means a right by common law; which is.called
right, and sometimes common right, or the laws and customs of
England, the statutes and customs of the realm; and what is properly the common law, is included Within common right, Co. Litt.
142, a. b. It is, so called because-it exists in all the subjects by the
common law, an universal custom; and is thus distinguished'from the
same right, claimed by 4 local custom in favour of the inhabitants of
i particular place, 6 Peters, 715; -and by an exclusive private . ight,
in one or more individuals, by a prescription in their own favour.
Co. Litt. 1.13, b.; Wood Inst. 4, 0 7 D. C. D. 93; ,1 Bl. Com. 75,
263. The common, right of 'the subject existed before any prescription, Mo. 574-5; 2 Wils..299; it must be set up as such, and not by
prescription, Willes, 265- "for a man shall not prescribe in that
which the lawof common right gives," Noy. 20: for the common
law is the best. and most common birthright that the subject hath,
for the safeguard and defence of his rights of person and property,
Co. Litt. 142, a.
Every country has a common law of usage and custom, both local
an4 geperal, to which,the people, especially those of a conquered or
ceded one, cling with more tenacity than to their written laws, and
all sovereigns respect them. The people of Kent contended with the
conqueror of England, till he confirmned their local customs and
te~pure, which continue to this day; and history'affords no instance
where the people have subnmitted to their abrogation without a struggle; as was ihe case in Louisiana, when they found that the laws of
France and the custom of Paris were about to be superseded by those
of Soain; vide 1 'Partid. preface; White, 206.
No principle can be better es'ablished by, the authority of this
Court, than "that the 'acts of an officer, to whom a public duty i'
assigned by his king, within the sphere of that duty, are prima facia
taken to be within his power.", "The principles on which it rests, are

SUPREM&. COURT.
[Strother v. LuCas.]

believed to be too deeply founded in law and reason, ever to be sueeessfully assailed., He who would controvert a grant executed by the
lawful authority, with all the solemnities required by law; takes on
himself :the burthen of showing, that the officer has transcended the
powers conferred upon him, or that the transaction is, tainted with
fraud' 8 Peters, 452-3--5, 464; 9 Peters, 134, 734-5; S. P.'6 Peters,
727,&c.; and cases cited: 10 Peters, 331; S.P. I Paine, 469-70.- The
same rule applies to the judicial proceedings of local officers, to pass
thetitle of land according to the course and practice of the Spanish
laW in that province (West Florida), '8 Peters, 310. Where the act
done is contrary to 'the written order of the king, produced at the
trial, without any explanation, it 'shall be presumed that the power
has not been exdeeded; that the act was done on the motives set out
therein;. and according to some order known to the king and his
officers, though not to his subjects. 7 Peters, 96; 8 Pet. 447,451-4-6;
' and courts ought to require very full pioof, that he had transcended
his powers, before they so determine it." 464; '9Peters, 734. Infollowing the course of the law of nations, this Court has declared that
even Iin cases of conquest, the conqueror does no more than displace
'the sovereign, and assume dominion over the-country. 7 Peters, 86;
(10 Peters, 720, 729-39,:passim). "A cession of territ6ry is never
understood to be aicession 'of the property of ihe'hilhabitants. The
king cedes only that which belongs to him; lahds he had previously
granted, were not his,to cede. Neither party couldso understand the
treaty. Neither party could eonsider itself as attempting a vrong
to individuals cbndemned by the whole civilized world. ' The cession of.a territory', would necessarily be understood to pass the sovereiguty only, and nf to interfere with private 'property." lb. 87.
No construction of! a treaty, which Would- impair that security to
private property, which the laws and usages of nations would without express stipulation have conferred, would seem to be admissible
further than its positive words require. "Without it, the title of individuals would remain as valid under the new government, as they
were under the old; and those titles, at least so far as they were consummate, might be'asserted in the courts of the 'United States, indeperidently of'this article." lb. 88; 6Peters, 741-2; S. P. 9 Peters 133.
The"terms of a treaty are to be applied to the state of things then
existing in the ceded territory, 8 Peters, 462: in that which had beer
held by Spain, thewhole power of granting and confirming titles haa,
the coloby the royal order of ,1754, been transferred to officers in,

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

hies, the commandants. of posts, and local authorities, who acted in
their discretion as the sole judges of the- manner, condition, or consideration, in, on, or for which they conferred the right of property,
as officers and competent authorities to exercise the granting power.
Such officers were in all the colonies; they made grants of all grades
of title, as well in rewards for services as favours, or for the benefit
of the. country, as they pleased; being.persons autlorized by the
king -to grit lands, "he was not willing to expose the acts of his
public and confidential officers, and'the title of his subjects acquired
under those acts,to that strict and jealous scrutiny, whit a foreign
government, ititerested against their validity, would apply to them, if
his private instructions or particular authority were to be required
in every case; and that he might therefore stipulate for that full (eviden'ce) to the instrument itself, which is usually allowed to instruments issued by the proper officer." 8 Peters, 449-50, to 458, 475,
488-9;'7 Peters, 96; 9 Peters, 134, 169, 734; 10 Peters, 331; S.P.
6 Peters,727, &c.; White'sComp. Sp. Laws, 218,249. Such a grant
under a general power, would be considered as valid, even if the
power to diSavoW"it existed until actually disavowed. 8 Peters, 451.
No such disavowal has 'ever been known to the Court, in 'any of the
numerous cases which'have been before us, arising under the treties
of 1903 and 1819; and the assiduous researches of Mr. White have
brought'none to his knowledge. 8 Peters, 458; 10 Peters, 332;
White's Comp. 9; from which it may be reasonably presumed that
none exist.
Treaties are the law of the land, and a rule of decision in all
courts. 2 Peters, 314; 9 Peters, 133. Their stipulations are binding
on the United States; in that of 1819, there is a present confirmation of all grants made before January, 1818, with the exception of
only three, which had been previously made, and were expressly
omitted, on Which this Court make these remarks. "While Florida
remained a province of Spain, the right of his catholic majesty, acting in person or by his officers, to distribute lands ?.cording to his
pleasure was unquestioned. That he was in the constant exercise of
this right, was well known. If the United States were not content
to receive the territory, charged with titles thus created, they ought
to have made, and they would have made such exceptions as they
deemed necessary. They have made these exceptiins. They have
stipulated that all grants made since the 24th of January, 1818, shall
be null and void. The American government was content with the

SUPREME

our ,

[Strother v. Lucas.]

security which tfiis stipulation afforded, and cannot how demand
farther and additional grounds. All other concessions made by his
catholic majesty, or his lawful authorities, in the cedqd territories,
are as valid as if the cession had not been made!' 8 Peters, 463,
464; S. P.) 9 Pdters, 734; 6 Peters, 741-2; 7 Peters, 88. By the
treaty of 1803,. there was a stipulation inter alia, that the inhabitants
of'the ceded territory shall be maintained and protected in the free
enjoyment of their liberty, property, and the religion they profess;
as to which, this is the language of this Codrt.
"That the perfect inviolability and security of property is among
9 Peters, 133; S. P., 10
these rights, all will assert and maintain."
Peters, 718, 722, 736. What was to be considered "as property,
under this stipulation, was, as held in the United States v. Smith, to
depend on this question, " whether,,in the given case, a court of
equity could, according to its rules, and the laws of Spain, consider
the conscience of the king to be so affected by his own, or-the acts
of t e lawful authorities of the province, that he had become a trustee for the ilaimnt, and held the land7 claimed by an equity upon-it,
amounting to a severance'of so much from his'domain, before the
loth 'of March, 18Q4, in Missouri, and the 24th of January, 1818,in
Fldrida; the periods fixed by the law (of congress) in one case, and
the treaty in the other." -10 Peters, 330, 331, 722, 36, S.P.
It is next in order to consider, what were the laws of Spain as to
the disposition :of the royal domain, in Louisiana, while she held it.
By the royal ordinance of 1754, it is ordained,, for 'he reasons set
forth in the preamble; 1. That from the date thereof, the power of
appolnting sub-delegates for selling lands, and the uncultivated parts
in the king's dominions, shall belorg 'exclubively to the local authorities, being, his officers in the colonies. 8 Peters, 451. 2. The
officers to whom' jurisdiction for the sale of lands shall be sub-delegated, shall proceed with mildness, gentleness, and moderation, with
verbal, and not judicial proceeding, in the case of lands possessed
by the Indians, or which' they may require Xor labour, tillage, &c.
3. In regard to the lands of communities, and those granted to the
towns for pasturage' and common, no change 'shall be made; 'the
towns shall be maintained in.possession of them; 'those seized, shall
be-resto,.ed, and their extent enlarged accdrding to the wants of the
population; nor shall severe strictness be used, towards those persons
who are in possessiori according to the requirements of the laws.
4. Those who have bien in possession of lands, by acts not ibn-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

firmed before 1700, may retain free possession thereof without molestation. If persons have not warrants, their proof of long possession shall be held as a title by prescription. If they have not
cultivated the lands, three months shall be given, or whatever tinge
may be thought sufficient; and notice shall be given, that if they fail
to cultivate the lands, they shall be given to those who shall lodge
information thereof, under the same condition of cultivating theip.
White's Comp. 50, 51.
Towns may be founded on prescribed conditions, for which definite rewards are given. White's Conp. 34, 59, The founder shall
contract to grant to each person who joins the settlement, building
lots and pastures, and lands for cultivation, proportionate to what he
will agree to improve. White, No: 62. A town containing ten married men, with an extent of territory proportioned to what is stipulated, may elect from among themselves, ordinary alcaldes, and officers of the council. White, No. 63. The territory granted to the
founder of a settlement, shall be thus distributed. They shall lay out
for the site of the town, whatever may be necessary sufficient exidor,
and abundant pasture for the cattle of the inhabitants) and as much
besides for that which shall belong to the town proprias. 'Of the balance of the tract, the founder to have one-fourth, and three-fourths
to be equally divided among the settlers. White, No. 66. 'The lots
to be distributed by lot amongthe settlers, beginning with those adjoining the main square, the remainder to be reserved to the king, to
give as rewards to new settlers or otherwise, at his will, and a plot of
the settlement to be made out. White, No. 67. Commons shall be
reserved, and the remainder laid out for cultivation, in tracts equal
in number to the town lots, to be drawn by lot. White, No. 70. If
accident should prevent the completion of the settlement in the term
prescribed, the settlers shall incur no forfeiture or penalty,, and the
governor of the district may extend the term according to the circumstances of the case. White, No. 73. There shall be distributed
among the settlers of the villages, I0ts and la.ids, varying in size and
extent, according to their rank and merit, and after living and labouring therein four years, they may sell them as their own property.
White, No. 74. No persons shall have lands in ope settlement, if
they possess lands in another, unless they have left their fcrmer, and
removed 'to their new residence, or resided in the first for the four
years necessary to entitle them to the fee simple right, or have relinquished it for not having fulfilled their obligations. White, No. 75.
VOL. XII.-3 K

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v.:
Lucas.]

The lots shall be built upon, the houses occupied, the arable lands
divided, cleared, worked 'nd planted, and those destined for pasture,
sockedwithin' a limited time, or the grants shall be forfeited, with a
penalty. White, No. 76. The distribution: shall be made by the governors, under the'advice of the council of the villages. White, No.
78, (Vide Document of 1772.) All to whom lands shall be distributed, shall, within three months, take possession, &c., under penalty
of forfeiting the land, that it may be vacated and forfeited to some
other settler; so as to the settlements and improvements they may
hold within the villages. White, No.'81; (Vide also, 1 Partidas,423;
2 Partidas, 338, 339, 373, 440.)*
Definition of regimiento, regidor, alcaldes, &c. in the laws of the Spanish empire
of the Indies.
In the administration of the laws, in civil and criminal matters, and the regulation
of the police, the settled territories of the Spanish empire of the Indies were divided
into a number of sections, differing in extent; over each of which was placed a royal
officer, appointed for a limited period by the supreme council of the Indies. The
larger sections were termed provinces, or more dproperly gobernaciones or overnments, and were superintended by governors, who were also in many parts commandants and captains general, that is to 'gay, exercisifg military and political
sway. The sections of lesser extent, but often of great iniportance, from comprising
some capital or other large city, were termed corregimientos,and their, chiefs were
called corregidors. The smallest or least important of these separate jurisdictions
were placed under the direction of an alcalde mayor. In places in which resided an
audiencia, or high court of justice, the president 6ras sometimes the administrator in
chief of the law and police.
The .seats of administration, or capitals of these divisions, were generally the
lal test towns in them, from which the section in almost every instance took its
name. In every capital of a jurisdiction, was a council called the ayuntamiento or
eabildo;'theayuntainiento is, strictly speaking, the council, and thfe cabildo, the place
of its meeting; the two words are, however, indifferently used to convey both significations. This municipal council was composed, in the first place, of anuinber of regidores, never exceeding twelve, who composed the regimiento; the office of regidor
was held for life; that is to say, during the pleasure of the supreme authority; in
most places it was purchased; in some cities, however, the regidores were chosen by
persons of-the district, who were .allowed to vote, and were styled capitulares. In
places in which no governor resided, the regidores -chose for two years, one or two
persons who were not in the employ of the government, as alcaldes ordinariOs,or
magistrates who held their courts and administered justice in all the cases in which
a governor could decide; tfiey had seats -nd votes in the ayuntamiento, except when
a governor or corregidor happened to be present. The chief of the district had a
seat, but no voice in the ayuntamiento; the standard bearer, or alfarez, had of right a
pre-eminent place and a vote.
Thus the ayuntamiento or cabildo consisted 6f the governor, corregidor or alcalde
mayor of the place, the alfarez, the alcaldes ordinarios, and the regimiento, or body
of regidores.
The word syndick does not appear in the recapilacion or official compilation of the

JANUARY TERM, 1538.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

For the purpose of ascertaining what lands belonged to the king,
it was ordered that the owners of,, land should exhibit to the officers,
laws of the Indies. The Spanish dictionary of'the academy, and the French authors
on jurisprudence, agree in defining it to mean the person: charged with the care, defence, and advancement of the interests of a community. In France, at present, the
trustee who holds the property of a bankrupt, is styled lesyndic.
With ,regard to the words propios or proprios, exidos or egidos and depesas.
When a town was founded in Spanish America, certain portions of ground formed
propios, were laid off and reserved as the unaienable propprty of the town, for the'
purpose of erecting public buildings, marketsi &c , or to be used in afty other way,
rnder the direction of the municipality for the advancement of the' revenues or the
prosperity of the place. There werr.also reserved in the vicinity, certain spaces of
ground for commons or public pasturage, which were called depesas: and vacant
spaces for exorcise, and for thrashing corn or other general uses, called oxidos. The
difference between the protios on the one hand, and the depesas and exidos on the
other, was that the latter were intendqd for specific purposes, and coutld not be appropriated to any others; while the municipality might convert the propios to the uses
which it should judge most convenient,
With respect to the measures of ground called fanegas and huebras.
The dictionary of the Spanish academy, the highest authority on the mere signifi.
cation of words in thatlanguage, defines a fanega to mean as much ground as a fanega
(a measure equivalent to a little more than a bushel and a half) of wheat will serve
to sow; adding that it is generally considered equal to four hundred estadales (or
spaces of eleven Spanish feet) square. Kelly, in his Cambist, makes a fanega or
fanegada equal to fiye thousand five hundred square yards, or about an acre and a
third.
The huebra is designated by the same dictionary as being as much ground as two
oxen can plough up in a day.
On the subject of caballerias and. peonias, I can only give my translation of the law
defining them.
Translation of Law 1st,

itle 12th, Book 4th, of the Recapilacion de Leyes de Indias.
Madrid;1781.
That lands and lots are to be given to new settlers 'and Indians to be assigned to
them; and what are meant by peoia and caballeria; D. Fernando V. in Valladolid,
June 18, and August 9th, 1513, Chap. I. The emperor, D. Carlos, on the 28th of
June, 1523, and in Toledo on the 19th of May, 1525. D. Philip the Second, in his
chapter of Instructions at Toledo, May 25th, 1596.
In order to encourage our vassals in the discovery and settlement of the Indies, and
that they may live with that comfort and convenience which we desire [for them]:
It is our. will, that houses, building-lots, lands, caballerias and peonias may be and
shall be assigned to all who may go as settlers of new lands in the villages and towns
to which they may be directed by the governor of the new settlement, making a distinction between gentlemen of family, and labourers, and those of lesser degree and worth;
and that these [houses, &c.] may be increased in extent and in quality, according to
the services of such settlers, in order that they may attend to the cultivation of the
soil, and to raising of cattle; and after they shall have dwelt and laboured on these
[houses, &c.] and resided in the said settlements four years, we grant them -power,
thenceforward, to sell and otherwise use them, agreeably to their own will as their

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

appointed, for thb purpose their titles to lands, estates, huts, and
cabellerias; who, after confirming the possession of such as hold the
same by virtue of good and legal titles, or by a just prescription,
shall restore the remainder. No'. 84. Officers
were ordered noi to
alter the acts of their predecessors with -regard to lands admitted to
composition, and to leave the holders thereof in quiet possession;
and those who have encroached, and held more than they are entitled to, shall be allowed to pay a moderate composition, and new
titles shall be issued to them. Where titles to land have been issued by- officers who were not authorized, and have been confirmed
in council, the holders of letters of confirmation are ordered to retain them, that they may be confirmed in their possession within the
limits prescribed; and, as regards their encroachments beyond the
limits, they are entitled to the benefits of this law. No. 85.
Those things which the king gives to any one, cannot be taken
from him by the king, or any one else, without some fault of his;
he shall dispose of them at his will, ag of any other things belonging
to, him. White, 82, No. 11. When the justices and regidores of a
bwn property; and likewise agreeably to their quality, the governor or whoever may
hold our faculty, mdy [or shall] assign Inians to them, in the distribution which he
may make, in order that they may avail themselves of the term of service, and- the
proficiencies of such Indians, according to the rates and rules established.
The same Ordinance 104, 105 and 106, on the subject of Settlements.
And as it may possibly happen that in the assignment of the lands there may be
doubts with regard to measures: We declare that a peonia comp rises a lot fifty feet
wide, and . hundred long; a hundred fanegas of land for cultivation of wheat or
barley; ten of Indian com; two huebras of land for a garden, and eight for planting
other trees growing in drier lanC. pasture ground for ten breeding sows, twenty cows,
five horses, a hundred sheep, and twenty goats. A caballeria is to consist of a lot
one hundred feet wide by two hundred long, and in all other respects equal to five
peonias; that is to say, five hundred fanegas of ground for cultivation of wheat or
barley, fifty of Indian corn; ten huebras of land for garden; forty for other trees growing in more barrep land; pasture ground for fifty breeding sows, a hundred cows,
toenty horses, five hundred sheep, and a hundred goats. And we order that the
assignment be made in fprm, so that all may participate in the gpod, and the
middling, and in that which is neither, as regards the portion t6 be allotted to each.
According to the dictionary of the Spanish academy, a peonia means the portion
granted to'a foot-soldier of spoils taken, or lands conquered in a war; and a caballeria
is a portion granted on such occasions to a horse soldier. By the above law it would
seem, that gentlemen or perrqns entitled to bear arms. (escuderos) were to be'allowed
the share of a horseman, and persons of lower degree were to share as foot soldiers.
The fanega appears to be strictly a measure, withoutany reference to the quantity of
seed to be sown on the ground; and so does huebra.

'JANUARY

TERM, 1838.

445

[Strother v. Lucas.]

city, town, or village, have made, and continue to make ordinances
for their officers and 'functionaries, and superintendents of the limits
and commons in the country, as for other matters which are of the
resort of the judiciary and regidores, (or capitulores,) the auditors
and alcaldes are not to interfere therein, except by appeal, and in
case of damages. White, 83. No grants 'shall be made of tHe~rights,
revenues, or municipal domains of villages; and all grants thereof
made by the king, shall be void. Ib. Vide, 10 Peters, 720, 24, &c.
There shall be commissioners in each village, to superintend the affairs thereof connected with the municipal taxes and domains, and
the management thereof, to be composed of alcaldes and regidores;
and, if thoughi proper, of the general attorney and recorder, (Procurado Sindico General.) Where there are no municipal taxes, these
commissioners shall attend to the best management of the municipal
domains; and where there are such taxes, of both. White, 88. The
superintendent of the settlement shall select the tracts, and locate the
houses of the settler; if any part of the tract belonging to the settlement is proper for irrigation, it shall be proportionably distributed;
each settler shall open the channels- for irrigation, and contribute
equally to their.repairs. White, 105. Landmarks shall be erected
between each lot, trees planted along the dividing line, a record of
distribution among the settlers shall be made, containing the number
of tracts, the names of the settlers to whom allotted, giving each a
sheet or plot of his tract, which shall be his title in future, to remain
in his possession, to be consulted without the necessity of resorting
to the record itself. White, 106, pp. 40. No. 81.
These are some of the many royal orders which relate to the general domain of the king, and to settletnents or villages, in each of
which there were municipal councils and officers, who made and
executed their regulations of police. 10 Peters, 723, 4. One branch
of which was confided to a syndic regidore, or other supervising officer, to enforce the village ordinances. White, 108, 9, 10, 11, 12,
13, 15, 16. These, with the regulations of the local officers of the
king, composed the written law of the colony or village, accordingly
as the subject matter thereof was general or local; besides which,
,theare was an .unwritten law of three kinds. "Use, custom, and the
common law." Use is defined to be "that which has arisen from
those things which a man says and does, and is of long continuance,
and without interruption;" the requisites to the validity of which
are prescribed. "Custom is the law or rule which is not written,

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Mcas.]

and which men have used for a long time, supporting themselves
by it in the things and reasons with respect to which they have exercised it; on which definition are founded three axioms."
1. "That custom is intr6duced by the people, under which name
we understand the union or assemblage of persois of all description, of that cquntry where they are collected. 2. That it derives
its authority from the express or tacit consent of the king. 3. That
once introduced, it has the force of law. To establish a custom, the
whole, or greater part of the people ought to concur in it. Ten
years must have. elapsed among-persons present, and twenty at least
among persons absent In default of this. continuance, it shall be
proved by two sentences of judges, or judgments given upon or according to it; one sentence suffices, when given on a question whether that custom exists, and the judge determined that it did.' Customs are general, or particular; the latter respects a specific thing,
a particular person, or place; or with respect to the whole, of certain
persons or places; general, with respect to specific acts of all the inhabitants 'of the kingdom, and may destroy. the law; but a particular
custom in any province or seignory, has only this effect in that di8trict or part where it hath been exercised. "A fuero (forum,) is an
use and custom combined, and has the force of law." White, 60, 1.
Such are the laws, usages, and customs of Spain, by which to ascertain what was property in the ceded territory, when it came into
the hands of the United States, charged with titles originating thereby; creating rights of property of all grades and description. In the
treaty of cession, no exceptions were made, and this Court has declared that none can thereafter be made. 8 Peters, 463. 'The United
States must remain content with that which contented them at the
transfer, when they assumed the precise position of the king of
Spain. The United States have so remained, as appears by their.
laws. By the. acts of 1804, 2 Story, 939; of 1805-; lb. 966, of 1807;
Ib. 1060, 62, of 1816; 1b. 1604; they recognised the laws, usages,
and customs of Spain? to be legitimate sources of titles; and, by the
act of 1812, 2 Story, 1257, confirmed to the inhabitants of St. Louis,
and other villages, according to their several right or rights of common thereto, the rights, titles, and claims to town or village lots, out
lots, common field lots, and commons, in belonging or. adjoining to
the same, which titles depended on parol grants and local customs.
The same recognition extended to grants to actual settlers, pursuant to such laws, usages and customs; to acts done by such settlers

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

to .obain a grant of lands actually settled, or persons claiming title
thereto, if the settlement was made before the 20th December, 1803.
Such claims when made in virtue of a warrant or order of survey, or
permission of the proper Spanish officer, were confirmed,-if actually
inhabited and cultivated on-that day, 2 Story, 966; and the permission
shall be presumed, on proof of a continued habitation and cultivation
for three years prior to the 1st October,'1800, though the party may
not have it in his power to produce sufficient evidence of such permission. lb. 1018. Thus connecting the law of nations, the stipulations of the treaty, the laws, usages and customs of Spain, the acts of
congress, with 'the decisions of this Court; we arc furnished with sure
rules of law, to guide us through this and all kindred cases, in ascertaining what was property in the inhabitants of the territory, when
it was ceded. As all the supreme laws of the land, the constitution,
laws and treaties, forbid the United States to violate rights of property thus acquired, so they have never attempted it; -but the state
of the province required that sdme appropriate laws should be passed, in order to ascertain what was private, and what public property,
to give repose to possession, security to titles depending on the evidence of facts remote in time, difficult of proof, and in the absence
of records or other writings. These facts, too, on which the law of
usage and custom, the transmission of property by parol, the performance of acts in pais, on which the right depended, were to be
developed from the few survivors of the settlers of an ancient village,
of whom, as appears from the record, but few could read or write:
whose occupations were in the trade with Orleans; Machinad,.and
the Indian tribes, who attended little to village concerns, and still less
to village property, when, on a public sale, its price was eight cnts
an arpent; and what would now be a splendid fortune, would not, fifty
years ago, be worth the clerk's fee for writing the deed which conveyed it, and was therefore passed from hand to hand by parpl, with
less formality than the sale of a beaver skin, which a bunch of wampum would buy. The simple settlers of St. Louis then little thought
that the time would ever'come, when under a stranger government,
the sales of their poor possessions, made in the hall of the government, at the church door after high mass, entered on the public,
archives, as enduring records, of their most solemn transactions,
would ever be questioned by strict rules of law or evidence. Still
less did such a race of men, as the boatmen and hunters of the west,
who by mutual agreement gave one thing, and took another, whether'

SUPREME COURT.
. [Strother v. Lucas.]

land or peltry, on a fair exchange by a, shake of the hand, ever
imagine that a common field lot would ever be worth, when lying
waste, a pack of furs, or that no evidence of its sale would be admissible, on a question of whose it was, unless by deed. When there
was but one Kiersereau and one Gpmache in the village, if was little
dreamed of that a principality in value, would depend for its ownership on the question, whether the one wrote his name Kirceraux or
Kirgeaux, or to the mark of the other was affixed the name Joseph.
Batis, or J. B. Gamache. Well was it said by one of the witnesses at
the trial," there were few people; it was'not as it is now." Record,
page 88.
Congress, well -aware of the state of the country and villages,
wisely and justly went to the extent, perhaps, of their poWers, in
providing for the security of private rights, by directing all claimants to file their claims before a board, specially appointed to adjust
and settle all conflicting claims to lands. They had in view another
important object; to ascertain what belonged to the United States, so
that sales could be safely made; the country settled in peacE, and
dormant titles not be permitted either to disturb ancient pos.ession; to give to their holders.the valuable improvements made by
purchasers, or the sites of cities, which had been built up, by their
enterprise; vide 10 Peters, 473. Accordingly we find, that by various acts, the time of filing such claim is limited; after which
they are declared void, so far as they depend on any act of congress;
and shall not be received in evidence in any court, against any person claiming by a grant from the United States.* 2 Story, 968,1061,
1216, 1260, 1301.
These are laws analogous to acts of limitations, for recording
deeds, or, giving effect to the awards of commissioners for settling
claims to land under the laws of the states; the time and manner of
their operation, and the exceptions to them, depend on the sound
discretion of the legislature, according to the nature of the titles, the
situation of the country, and the emergency which calls for their
enactment" Reasons of sound policy have led to the general adoption of laws of both descriptions, and their validity cannot be questioned. Cases may occur, where the provisions of a law may be
such as to call for the interposition of the courts; but these under
consideration do not. Vide 3 Peters, 289-90. They have been uniformly approved by this Court, in 12 Wh. 528-29, 537-39-43, 6012; 6 Peters, 771-72; 7 Peters, 90 to 93, passim; and ought to be

JANUARY TERM; 1838.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

considered as settled rule of decision in all cases to which they
apply.
Having reviewed the, written law of the case, we must next
examine what was the unwritten law of the place, which can appear
only from the evidence in the record, as to the usage, custom or
fuero, and is most manifest. 1. In the most solemn act of 1772, by
the two governors, in the presence of all the officers of government,
the people of the villige, and recorded together with all proceedings
under it at large, in the land book of the district, with the surveys
entered on sixty-eight pages. What those proceedings were, will
appear in the document before referred to in.'general, and the copies
from the entries in the land book, in relation to each lot, contained
in the record. 2. In the deeds executed in the presence of the
governor, and witnesses of assistance specially selected to attest the
sale; as by the common law they were called to attest the livery of
seisin on a feoffment, 8 Cr. 244, &c.; and the entries of the names of
the purchasers in the margin of the survey of the property sold,
recorded in the land book of the village.
3. In the adjudications made by the governor in a judicial capacity, making a sale of the property of Chancellier and St. Cyr, by
judicial process, set out at length in the record, and most solemnly
attested.
4. By the evidence in the record, showing beyond doubt, that
there has been an universal acquiescence .bythe political authorities
of the district; the municipal council and officers of the village, as
well as the inhabitants, in all these acts, testified by the q'uiet possession' held under them from 1772. The document of that year is
not only to be considered as the ancient muniment of the titles of
the villagers, but as an authentic and conclusive recogntion of the
local custom, in relation to some important facts, illustrating the
local law of the place, when taken in connection with the testimony
of the witnesses
I6 that solemn act there is this clause, "to serve to designate the
various tracts of land, granted in the name of the king (of Spain) to
the inhabitants of this post of St. Louis, as well by title (deed) as by
verbal. consent, by the chiefs who have governed them from the foundation (of the government) to this moment." In alluding to acts
done under the governor of the territory under France, is this clause;
"the latter to certify by his signature, in his said quality, and in virtue
of the power confided to him, that he had granted, eithei by title,
VoL. XII.-3 L

SUPREME 'COURT.
•[Strother v. Lucas.]

(deed) or verbally, the abovementioried lands in the name of his majesty" (the king of France).
This attests the meaning of the word grant, under both governments, to be inclusive of verbal ones, which were equally valid as
those by deed; and as the title passed from the king to the people
in this way, so we find by the uncontradicted te.stimony of several
witnesses, that it passed from one to another in the same way, without writing, when the land Was of small value. It appears, also,
from the evidence, that there was an officer in the village, called by
the inhabitants a %yndick,and in the Spanish laws a regidore;
whose duty and authority were, to see that the common fences of the
forty arpent lots were kept in repair. He would direct them to be
inspected; and if they were fonnd out of repair, Would direct the
owner of the lot, in front of which it was defective, to make the,
repairs: if theownor was on a journey the syndick would have the
repairs made, and make the owner pay his share on his return;
otherwise he would give, the land to another person, who. would
make the share of the fence.
This was a regulation in villages, by the authority of the commandant and municipal authorities, in conformity with the laws of
Spain; vide 10 Peters, 725, 31; it applied as well 'to village property as to the large grants of the royal domain; and itappears by
the regulations of O'Reilley, Gayoso, and Morales, that from 1770
till the cession in 1803, it was of universal application throughout
Louisiana. White, 205, to 216, passim.
Such were the laws, usages and customs of Spain, in relation to
the grants, transfers and tenure of village property. There remains
one other rule which must be applied to this case, unless the evidence in the present record, which was not in the former, may lead
to a different result; we mean the opinion of this Court, in the case
between the same parties, claiming the same property. Vide' 6 Peters, 763, 7.
Before We consider the instructions on which the plaintiff has assigned his errors, the points decided in that case will be taken in the
order of the learned judge, who delivered the opinion of the Court.
1. On the handwriting and identity of Rene Kiersereau, who, as
alleged, was one of the witnesses of-assistance to the 'deed of 1781,
from M. M. Robillar, his wife, to Louis Chancellier, as to which the
court below had rejected certain depositions, which was assigned for
error;' and the objection overruled, for this reason: "The record

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
,[Strother v. Lucas.]

does not show that the judge was called upon'to dxpress any opinion;
with respect to the legal effect anl operatiofi of thedeed; or that the
plaintiff had not the full benefit of its being his (Kiersereau's) deed.
And, indeed, it would seem from the course of the trial, that it was
so considered; or, at all events, the cQntrary does not appear from
any question presented to the Court on the subject,." 6 Peters, 768.
Had the same question been presented now, as it was then, we
should not have hesitated.to have expressed an entire concurrence
with that view; but as it now comes up on a new state of facts, it deserves further consideration; especially as a, similar question occurs
as to the identity of Gamache, who conveyed to St. Cyr in 1793.
Both quesfibns are so similar, that they may be taken together in
two aspects. 1. As questions of fact. 2. Of law.
1. It is admitted that Rene Kiersereau was the owner of one of
the lots in controversy as is apparent on the document of 1772, to
which-his name is affixed as one of eleven inhabitantsi. including 'the
Fovernor, tfie political and municipal officers of the village, who
could write their names, which, according to evidence, contained
two hundred'and fifty. persons. Whetheri he *as the same person
who was the witness to the deed from his wife, and (as we'shall assume,) the grantor of'the lot, was a pure question of fact for the jury,
on the whole evidence on that subject; so it was as to the identity,
of Gamache, as to whom there is the following admission on the
record. " It was also admitted, that Joseph Gamache, for whom the
survey of one of the tracts of land, of one by forty arpents, was made,
was known as well by the name 6f Jean Baptiste Gamache, and of
Baptiste' Gamache; as Joseph Gamache;" which also appears by
his deed to Ch'aneellier. Mark
of John Baptiste Gamache, Joseph
Gamache, in the survey in the land book. Batis
Gamache in his
deed to St.'Cyr', ar.d Baptiste Gamache, in the margin of the survey.
Before'the court could give any instruction to the jury, as to the
,identity of either Kiersereau, or Gamache, "they must have been
satisfied, on that subject, that there was, nothing in (the parol) evidence, or any fact which the jury could lawfully infer therefrom,"
that they were or were not the owners of the resplctive lots. If
there was any exidence which conduced to prove the fact, "the Court
must assume it to have been proved; for it is'the exclusive province.
of the jury to decide what facts are proved by competent evidence,"
to judge of the credibility of the witnesses, ai)d the weight of their
testimony, as tending more or less to prove the fact relied on. "As

SUPREME COURT.
[trother v. Lucas.]

these were matters with which the court could not interfere, the
right to the instruction asked, must depend on the opinion of the
court, on a finding by the jury in favour of the defendant, on any
matter which the evidence conduced to prove, giving full, credence
to the witnesses produced by him, 'and discrediting those' of the
plaintiff. Ewing v.- Burnett, 11 Peters, 50, :51, 52; S. P. U. S. v.
Laub, 1838, 12 Peters.
2. In this case,'we think that neither question was one of fact entirely; the manner in which the deeds.were executed, the possession
taken and held under-them by Chancellier, of one; and' St. Cyr, ofthe
other; its notoriety to the authorities, and the people of the village,
with the natur'e of the possession, the.situatioh and state of the common field lots, and their cultivation within one common enclosure,
regulated by a special police, with the other circumstances of the'
case; Vide 11 Peters; 523; incline us -strongly to this conclusion.
That 'after .this lapse of time, the legal presumption of the: validity Of
both deeds, would. attach .by the maxim, that i'n fayour of long-pos-,
session and ancient appropriation, every thing which was done shall
be presumed to have been rightfully d6ne; and 'though it does not
appear to have been done, the law will presume that whatever was
necessary, hasJ been done. 2 Peters, 760 and-cases cited.:
The next-point decided in the former case,.was on an objection
made by the defendant's counsel, that the plaintiff had not such a
legal title as to sustain an ejectment; which.was overruleds 6 Peters,
768; 69. And we think very properly, in. accordance with the leading case of Simmes' Lessee v. Irvine, 3 Dall. 425, 54; thd .authority
of.which remains unquestioned. -ItWas objected that the confirmation
by the board of commissioners to Choteau, was'void, because the defendant was at the time one of the board, and claimed the property
by a deed from Cho.teau, before the confirmation; it was overruled,
because it did not appear that he sat at the, board at the time: Ib.
768. The same objection has been much pressed now; with the additional reason, that the defendant was also a: judge of the superior
court of the territory; but as the confirmations in the record show
that he was not present, and we think the ojectionnot good in law,
we fully concur with the. ddcision of this point in the former, case.
After recapitulating the evidence as it appeared in the then record,
the court, observed: "From this statement of the case, according to
the plaintiff's own showing, there is a-regular deduction 'of title or
claim from the persons for whom the lots 'wre surveyed to'the de-,

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

fendant. But it appears that these persons, Kidrsereau and Gamache,
sold their claim', twice; (Gamache one-half) in the first place, to
Louis Chancellier, under whom the plaintiff claims; and in the second
place to St. Cyr, under whom the defendant claims. If these title
papers were to be considered, independent of the acts of cobgress,
and the proceedings of the commissioners, the plaintiff being prior
in point of time, would prevail so far as depended upon the deduction of a paper title, and independent of the question of possession.
"It becomes necessary, therefore, to inquire how far the acts of congress apply to, and affect any part of these title papers." The Court
then, referring to the acts of 1805 and 1807, and to the evidence,
held, that as there was no evidence that.Madame Chancellier had eve4
filed her claim, or the evidence thereof, pursuant to the law, and the
instruction of the court complained of, was on the effect of the confirmation under the law; the plaintiff could derive no benefift from it;
6 Peters, 772; which we think was the correct result of the then
case. A different case is now presented on this subject
The plaintiff gave in evidence two opinions of the recorder of
land'titles of St. Louis county, confirming to the representatives of
Gamache and Kiersereau fhe forty. arpent lot of each, aid directed
each to be surveyed; but did not 0flbr the confirmations to'Chioteau
by the hoard of commissiotiers, which were given in evidence by
the defendant. The plaintiff claimed under the former, the defendant under the latter; that-of the plaintiff 'Will be first considered.
By the 8th sec...of the act of 1812, 2 Story, 1260, the recorde" of
land, titles was invested with the same powers, and enjoined, to perform the same duties, as the board of commissioners, (which wa,
then dissolved,) in relation to claims which might heffiled before th(
1st December, 1812; and the claims which have been heretoforc
filed, but not acted on by the commissioners; except that all his decisions shall be subject to the revision of congress. He was directed to report to the commissioner of the land office, 'a list of all such
claims, with the, substance of the evidence in support thereof, his
opinion, and such remarks aS he may, think proper, to be laid before
congress at their next session. By the act of 1813, the time for 4ling
claims was extended to 1st January, 1814. '2 Story, 1306, 1384-5,
under which acts the recorder made the confirmations relied on by
the plaintiff on the 1st November, 1815, which vkas confirmed by the
2d sec. of the act of 1816. 3 Story, 1604. But these confirmations
cannot avail the plaintiff as a claimant tuader ihese or any 6ther acts

SUPREME COURT.
[3trother v. Lucas.]

of'congess, for the following reasons: 1. That the authority of the
recorder of lard titles was, by the expressoterms of the acts of 1812
and '13, confined' to ,those claims on-which the board'of commissioners had not previously ated; from which it follows, that after the
coInmissiopers have'made a confirmation of a specific claim, the action of the recorder is either merely cumulative, and so inoperative;
or'if adverse, merely Void, as an assumption and usurpation of power
in a case 'on which he bad not jurisdiction, nd his action must be.a
mere iullity. Here the commissioners .had decided on the idontical
claim in 1809-10; congress'had made'a general confirmation of all the
claims of the then inhabitants of St. Louis, of their title to the cornmtion field lots in 1812, When the defendant was an inhabitant there.of, and in actual possession of those in'controversy; and by the act
it was ponided, that it should not affect any confirmed- claim's to,
the saine lands. Surveys were directed to be made, plots thereof
made out, and transmitted to the general land office and recorder of
.landtitles. 2 Story, 1257-8. As the act directed no further steps
to be taken, the title became complete, and the recorder thenceforth
ceased to have any power over' the confirmed lots, save to perform
the ministerial acts directed by law, as the ordinary duties of his
office. If congress 'could, it never did give him any authority to
supervise either the acts of 'the commissioners, or the confirmations
of the law.
2. We(must, then,thke the defendart, as one holding the premises
in 'contrqversy, by a grant from'the United States, and as their
grantee, entitled to all the protection of the laws appropriate to the
case. The unanswerable reasoning of this Courf, in Green v. Liter,
'the principles of law on which it is founded, with the admitted authority with which it has been received, save'the necessity of any reference to any other source f6r i'ts support. 8 Cr. 244-49. That a grant
may be made by a law, as well as a patent pursuant to a law, is undoubted, 6 Cr. 128; and a confirmation by a law, i's as fully to all
intents and purposes a grant, as if it contained in terms a grant de.
novo. The plaintiff, therefore, is-brought within the two provisions
of the laws;, that by Madame Chancellier not having filed her claim
within the time limited by law,'she could 'not set up any claim under
any-act of congress, or be permitted to give any evidence thereof in
any court, against a person having a grant from the United States,
under the confirmation of the commnissioners, and the act of 1812.
The plaintiff has contended, that the act of 18311 has released him

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother v. Lucas].

from th(,.e provisions, and all jenalties imposed by any act of congress. This act was a .supplement.to the act of confirmation of June,
'1812; 2 Stqry, 12'57-8; by the first section of which the titles of the
inhabitants were confirmed according to their private right or rights,
in common thereto, as has been Atated before. By the 2d section, all
town, outI, and common field lots, included in the surveys, therein
directed, not rightfully owned or. claimed by any individual, or held
in common, belonging to the towns or villages, or reserved by the
president for military purposes, werexieserved to the towns:and villages for the support of schools. In order to ascertain what lots were
owned or claimed by individu .ls, the recorder was by the 8th section
empowered to act on claims filed before 1st December,'1813, ashas
been seen,,and those before filed and undecided. The time for presenting such claims was further enlarged by the acs of April 1,
1814; 2 Story, 1410, 1429-30; and certain confirmations were made
by congress in those act's.. Under this authority the recorder, made
his report, which appears in the 3d vol. State Papers-Public LTnds,
p,314. His proceedings were confirmed by the 2d section of the
act of April, f816; 6iStory, 1604-5. Then comes the act of 1831, the
first section of which enacted, I-That the United States do'relinquish
'to the inhabitants of St. Louis, &c., all their right, title and inierest,
to the town Pr village lots, out lbts, common field lots, and commons
in, adjoining, or belonging to the towns and villages, confirmed to
them, respectively, by the act of 18 "2; to be'held by the inhabitants
in full property,'according to their several tights therein, to, be regulat6d or disposed of for the use of the inhabitants, according to the
laws of Missouri." By the second section, the United States relinquished their right, title, and interest,, in and to the town, out, and
common field lots, in the state of Missouri, reserved for schools by
the act of 1812; and provided that the same shall be sold or disposed
of, or regulated for the same purposes, in such manner, as may be directedby the legislature of the state. 4 Story, 2220. It is most obVious that this act, so far from 6pening the confirmation of the commissioners, in 1809-10, and of the act of 1812, or relieving the plaintiffs
from- the: effct thereof, is a new confirmation of the private and
common rights of the inhabitants, and cannot aid the plaintiff; the
purposes 6f this case do not require, us to give it anyfurther conside.ration. For, these eeasons, we feel constrained to cbme to the same
conclusion on this record, which the Court did on the former; the
plaintiff can' neither have any benefit from any act of congress, or

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

give evidence oi his claim, against the defendant, claiming by grant
from the United Statem.
The .next position of the Court in the former case was, that
Madame Chancellier having slept upon her claim till 1818, muit be
constdeted as having abandoned it; to which' we not only'entirely
assent, as this point, appeared then, but as 'still clearer now, by the
liew evidence. It was testified at the trial, that Madame Chancellier
bad made a verbal sale of the two lots to St. Cyr; the crodibility of,
the witness,.and the weight of his, testimony, were matters exclusively for the jury; and we cannot say that they did not find for the
defendant on that ground; it was competeb1t evi'dence, conducing to
prove that fact; and if the jury found the fact accordingly, we have
only to consider its consequences. Assuming, as we must, that the
fact' of such sale is established, it is immaterial whether such sale
pas!P6d the title or not; it was, when taken in connexion with the
other circumstances of thelcase, powerful if not conclusive evidence,
that she had abandoned as well the possession as the right to the lots
in controversy, without the intention to reclaim either; that St. Cyr
took and held possession in good faith; and with good faith purchased from Kiersereau and Gamache, which he might lawfully db
to complete his title. If it was a fact, then the continued possessioh of St. Cyr and the defendant, entitled the latter to all th6 benefit
of the $panish, law of prescription, whether of thirty, twenty, or ten
years, according to the rules laid down, as taken form the Recapilacion and Partidas, in White, 68-9. The destruction of the common fence of the common field lots, in 1798-9; was a sufficient
excuse for'St. Oyror Choteau, not continuing the actual possession
and cultivation of their lots, until the other owners would join in rein 1804,. with the
building the fence. The change of government
consequent uncertainty of titles, was a reason for leaving the lots
open, which ought not to be overlooked; that,there was no actual or
intended abandonment by St. Cyr, might well 'have been found by
the jury, from the judicial sale to Choteau in 1801; or by him, from
the sale, to the defendant in, 1808. On these facts, the laws of Spain
would consider the possession as continued, from 1798 to 1808; and
if the opinions of this Cburt have any bearing on the question of
possession, abandonment, or legal presficption of a rightful title,
those to be found in Green v. Liter, 8 Cr. 244, &c.; Barr v. Gratz,
4 Wh. 213, 233; Pr. Soc. v. Pawlett, 4 Peters. 480, 504-6; ClarL
v. Courtney, 5 Peters, 354-5; Barclay V'. Howvell, 6 Peters, 513;

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

U. S. v. Arredondo, lb. 743; Ellicott v. Pearl, 10 Peters, 442; Ewing
v. Bernet, 11 Peters, 51- 3; U. S. v. Mitchell 9,,Peters, 734-5,760;
New Orleans v. The U. S. 10 Peters, 718-19, &c. are most full and
eoncldsive.
The plaintiffs have relied much on the allegation, that St. Cyr took
possession as the tenant of Madame Chancellier, or her husband,
l.eauchamp, in 1788, or under an agreement that he should keep up
the fence while he occupied the lots. The only evidence ot this
fact was by her in her testimony, in which -she stated it in general
terms: on her cross-examination, she stated that Beauchamp had told
her so; whereupon, the court directed the jury to reject her evidence. Whether the jurydid so or not is not material; they were
not bounat to credit her; they might not believe her; and we cannot
presume that they did, or hold that they ought. II Peters, 50, 51,
There is another fact in evidence, which leads to the same results.
'It was testified at the trial, that St. Cyr was put into possession by
the syndic, pursuant to the village regulations, because the fence
had not been kept up after.the death of Chancellier. 'The jury were
the jtidges of this fact; ,andfrom their finding, we must presume that
it was proved, and hold the law to be accordingly; that no taint of
bad faith can attach to the conduct of St. Cyr, by any notice lie may
have had of the title or claim of Madame Chancellier; it was consistent with her title, that she should hold it- by the established village tenure, subject to the municipal, regulatiohs, which were authorized by the laws, usages, and customs of the coun try and place. It
is evident, that the law which gave a title in fee to a village lot, by a
continued residence of four years in a house, neither did or could
apply to a common field lot, used only for cultivation or pasturage,
the owner of which could derive no advantage from his mere right
of property, if he adjoining owners did not keep the common fence
in repair, or pay the syfidic for doing it. That suc regulations
were authorized by the written law of Spain- in royal orders, and by
the unwritten law of use, custom and fuero, has been seen; and that
such usages and customs were valid; that localusage and custom, in
relation to municipal regulations, was not the law of the villages
only, but of the metropolis of the. province; and equally bifiding ,as
the local-law4; is clearly established by the able and unanimous
opinion or this Court, in New Orleans v..The United Statts, .10
Peters, 712, 716, 724, 730, 731.

Another principle laid down by the Court in the former case,
VoL., XII.-3 M

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

meets our entire-approbation; "that the justice and law of- the, case,
growing out of such a length of possession, are so manifestly with
the judgment iih the court below, if we look at.the whole evidence
on the record, that-we feel disposed to give the most favourable interpl'etations to the instructions of the court" 6 Peters, 772.
There remains but one otlher point, on which the Court gave their
opinion in the, former case, Which was then made by the plaintiff's
counsel in their Argument, and has been strongly urged in this case,
that the conlirmation of the commissioners enured to plaintiff's'use.
The reasons assigned for this position are, that the only object of
the acts of congress being to ascertain what property had bEen acquired by individuals before the cession, the commissioners were to
act only on original claims, and by confirming the right of the original.
owner, to leave the derivative right under him entirely open b tween
adverse claiinant& The Court were before of opinion that thh view
of the case could'not be sustained;' and we are now of opinion, that
it is inconsistent with all the acts of congress, Which have organized
boards of commissioners for adjusting land titles, the proceedings of
the board, and the laws which have confirmed hem.
By these laws it is provided, that the originalgrant shall be
recorded; but all other conveyances and deeds shall be deposited
with the register or recorder of deeds, to be by them laid before the
commissioners. Vide 2 Story, 967, 968. The same provision is
contai*ned in the numerous laws on this subject, which, are noticed
and reviewed in' the opinions of this Court; 12 Wheat. 525 to
543; 6 Peters, 718, &c.,; 7 Peters, 89, 90, &c..; showing that this
distinction between the evidence of original and derivative'rights to
land, has been uniformly observed by congress, and the .Court, The
confirmations of the commissioners in the present case are, to the
person who made and proved his claim before them; and from the
reports of all the boards, as published in the State Papers,-R-Public
Lands, 3 vol. passim; it has been uniformly done, and the acts of congress,. Confirming them, have been in general terms of reference to
such reports. Vide a Story, 1410, 1,430; 3 Story, 1604. It'would
defeat 'the whole object of these laws, -and introduce 'infinite public
mischief, were we to decide that the..confirmations by he commissioners and congress, made expressly to those who .claim by detivatiVe titles, did not operate to their own .ue.
It has been seen, that the confirmation of titles to village lots in
Missouri, 2 Story, 151, 1258, is, in express terms, "to the inhabi-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother v.Lucas.]

tants of the village," acerding to their ",several right or rights in
common thereto." So in the act of 1831, the lots confirmed by the
act of 1812, are "to be held by the inhabitants of the said towns and
villages in full property, according to their several rights therein."
These laws necessarily admit of but one construction; and if we regard their terms, the object manifest on their face, and the effects
evidently intended by congress, the position of the plaintiff's counsel
is utterly untenable.
We now proceedt0 consider the instructions asked by the plaintiff
and- refused by the court, as well as those given as modifications of
those asked by plaintiff, and those given by the court on the prayer
of the defendant.
Plaintiff's instructions.
1. That the sale, partition, and final decree, relative to the :estate
of Chancellier, established the title of his wife to the premises in
controversy, which the court refused; but instructed the jtry, that
they passed the title thereto, such as it was, vested in ,Chancellier,
to her; to.which we think there can be no well founded objection, as
no law was produced by which such a decree could operate as a new
grant of a right of property to the vendee. If none existed in the,
person as whose estate it was so sold, it was a transfer of an'existing
title;,and not in its nature or effect an original grant.
2. That independent of the title of Kiersereau and Gamache, there
was sufficient evidence before the jury to estabiish a title, by prescription in Chancellier and his heirs; which, instruction-could not
be given without usurping the province of the jury to decide on the
sufficiency of the evidence. 9 Peters, 445. No instruction was
asked as to its competency; and the onelasked, was, therefore, properly refused.
3. That St. Cyr took no title by prescription. This was a mixed
question of law and fact: to have given such instruation would have
been an assumption by the court, that there was no such fact
legally inferrible from the evidence, which would have bi'ought St.
Cyr within the law of prescription. There was not only evidence
of such facts given to the jury, but from their finding, we must take
the parol sale by Madame Chancellier to him, the usage and cus.
tom of the village, to authorize the syndic to put him in posseso
sion; and that he was, pursuant thereto, so put into possession, to rbe.
facts which would give to his possession the protection of prescription.

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

4. If the jury are of opinion that St. Cyr had notice of the sale to
Madame Chancellier, his possession could not be adverse, or an
estate in him by proscription. If St. Cyr purchased from her, or
was put into possession of the lots on account of her default in not
'repairing the fence, a. noti-e of her claim was a matter of course, and
could not impair his right by possession, or the subsequent purchase
from Kiersereau and Gamache.
5. That if St. Cyr was a purchaser at the sale of Chancellier's
estate, or put his name or mark as such on the margin thereof, these
facts are prima facie evidence, that he had notice of her title; to
which the court answered, that this was proper evidence for the jury
to consider, in deciding whether he had notice, and refused the instruction as asked; which we think was correct. But on the facts
referred to under the third instruction, notice was wholly immaterial, as it could not taint his purchase with fraud.
6. That the deed from Kiersereau to St. Cyr, in 1793, who had
before conveyed to Chancellier, by deed on record, conveyed nothing
to him, and that the penalties of the crime of estellionato, by the
Spanish law, were thereby incurred. 7. The same objection is made
'to the deed to St. Cyr from Gamache; and 8. That the deed purported to be a deed of Joseph, and was signed Batis Gamache x his
mark.
The foregoing facts fully justify the court, in their refusing such
instrqction as to the effect of both deeds; and as to the deed from
Gamache, the only question was one of identity and fact for the jury;
which reasons equally apply to the 8th, 9th and 10th instructions.
11. That the sale by the syndic of St. Cyr's property, was no
evidence of his title to the lots, or that such sale was made. The first
part of this instruction was given,'and properly, for the reasons given
in the first instruction; the latter part was properly refused, because
the proceeding wa;. a judicial one of record, which is, per se, evidence
of the facts set forth, and cannot now be called in question. 8 Peters, 309, 310.
12, 13 and 16. These instructions depend on the facts of the case,
and could not have been given without interfering with the province
of the jury; the court charged faVourably to the plaintiff in part of
the 12th and 16th; that defendant had shown no title or bar to the
plantiff under the act of limitation.
14, 15 and 17. These instructions were founded on the official

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

situation of the defendant before alluded to, and were properly refused under the decision of the court in the former case.
The 18th instruction is founded on the act of 1831, before noticed,
which for the reasons heretofore given, could not avail the plaintiff;
and he cannot complain of the refusal of the court to give it as asked;
as they did instrutt the jury, that no penal effect resulted from any
act of congress, which bars or stands in the way of plaintiff's recovery, though it would have been good ground of an exception by
the defendant, had a verdict been found against him.
The 19th, 20th and 21st instructions depended on the court
assuming, that the facts relied on by the plaintiff were established by
the evidence,'and taking from the jury the right of deciding what
facts were proved; the court were therefore right-in refusing to instruct as requested. The instructions asked by the defendant, and
given by the court, were founded on the evidence in the cause, relating to the possession of St. Cyr, and those claiming under him; and
the consequent right of the 'defendant by prescription, as a bar to the
plaintiff's right of recovery. We think they were fully justified by
the evidence, especially with the qualifications laid down by the
court, as to the nature of such possession, and of the title under
which it was held, as appears in their further instruction to the jury.
"That the possession mentioned must be an open and notorious possession, and that if they should find such possession, it gave title
under, and according to the Spanish or civil law,-which was in force
in Upper Louisiana at the date of the treaty by which Louisiana was
acquired by the United States, and remained in force and unabrogated by any law of the district of Louisiana or of Missouri, down to
a period as late' as October, 1818. That the possession of ten or
thirty years would give a title, the one period or the other, according to the 'circumstances under which the possession was obtained.
That the ten years' p6ssession which would give a prescriptive title,
must be a possesson under a purchase made in good faith, and where
the purchaser believed that the person of whom he purchased had a
good title, and where thb owner of. the title prescribed against resided in the same country during the said ten years. That if the
jury believe from the evidence, that the possession of St. Cyr, under
whom the defendant claims, was obtained under a purchase made by
him in good faith, and under the belief that the persons of whom
he purchased, had a good title, and that the possession of Choteau,
under whom the defendant claims, was obtained in like manner and

462

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

under a purchase made with the like belief, and that they had the
possession mentioned irx the second instruction asked for on the part
of the defendant, and that the said Marie Louise was in the country 4ring the said ten years, the plaintiff cannot recover in this
action."
And further ixstructed the jury, in relation to the possession mentioned in the third instruction asked for on the part of the defendant:
"that to make the possession there mentioned a bar to the plaintiff's
recovery in the presefit action, the possession of the defendant must
have been obtained under a porchase, where iebelieved that the
person of whom he purchased had a good title, and that the said
Marie Louise was in the country during the said ten years; which,
unless the jury believe they cannot find for the defendant upon such
possession.
These rules appear to be in conformity with the laws of Spain,
as extracted from the books of established authority in Mr. White's
Compilation, p. 6 8 to 71; and this Court has never laid down stricter
or perhaps as strict ones, on questions of prescriptidn, whicht they
have decided according to the rules of the common law.
To the remaining instructions no exception appears to have been
taken, and cannot, therefore, be considered: they were made the
subject of a motion for a new trial, and are not cognizable in error.
The judgment of the court below is consequently affirmed, with
costs.
Mr. Justice CATRor4:
The plaintiff moved the court to instruct the jury as follows:1. That there is evidence before the jury of the possession and
title of Rene Kiersereau, and Jno. B. Gamache, as absolute owners
and proprietors of the two forty arpent lots described in the declaration.
That there is evidence beforc Ehe jury of the possession and title
of Louis Chancellier, as owner and proprietor of the two forty arpent lots in question, as assignee of said Rene" Kiersereau, and said
J.B. Gamache, respectively.
That there is evidence of the actual possession, after the death of
said Louis Chancellier, by his widow, said Marie Louise, of said two
forty arpent lots, claiming the same as absolute owner thereof.
That the plaintiff has established his title as assignee of Marie

JANUARY TERM, 1836.

463

[Strother v. Lucas.]

Louise Chancellier, to the estate and interest vested in her and. her
heirs, in and to the two forty arpents in question.
That the deed given in evidence by plaintiff, from Auguste Gamache to Bazil Laroque and Marie Louise, his wife, enures to the
benefit of the plaintiff.
That if th. jury shall be of opinion, from the evidence, that Hyacinth St, Cyr originally obtained possession of the lots irquestion,
as tenant of Marie Louise, the widow of Louis Chancellier, or by
virtue of a permission to occupy and cultivate, given to said St. Cyr
by the syndic of the village of St. Louis, the possession of St. Cyr
so obtained" shall be taken by the jury as in law the possession of
said Marie Lotaise.
That the confirmations of the board of commissioners, on 23d July,
1810, of which the defendant was a member-,could at most only
operate as a quit claimA by the United States in favour of the origihal grantees, and could not decide the question of derivative title
under said original grantees.
That the mere fact of the land described in the confirmation to
Choteau, and the land described in the confirmation given in evidence by the plaintiff, and the declaration, being identical, does not
entitle the defendant to a verdict in his favour.
That no forfeiture or disqualification has accrued against Madame
Marie Louise, the widow of Louis Chancellier or against her assigns,
under any act of congress; whereby she or they are barred from asserting their legal and equitable rights to the lots in question before
this court.
Which instructions were given by the court.
Instructions asked by the plaintiff, and partly refused by the court.
1st. That the sale and partition, and final decree, of which duly
certified copies have been given in evidence by the plaintiff, establish
the title of the widow of Louis Chancellier, Madame Marie Louise
Deschamps, and her heirs, to the ;land described in said sale and
partition a's
sold and allotted to her; part of which said land consists
of the two arpents by for~ty in the declaration described, bounded !y
Bisou, on the one side, and by J. B. Bequette, on the othei.
2d. That independently of the title of Rene Kiersereau, and J. B.
Gamache, there would be sufficient evidence before the jury to establish a title by prescription in Louis Chancellier and his -heirs, and
Marie Louise, his widow, and her heirs,.to the two forty arpents described in the declaration.

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

3d. That Hyacinth, St. Cyr took no title by prescription in and
to said lots.
4th. That if the jury shall be of opinion that Hyacinth St. Cyr
had notice of the sale of said lots to Marie Louise, by the proper
Spanish authority, as given in evidence by the plaintiff, the possession of said Hyacinth St. Cyr of said arpents was not such as could
be adverse to Marie Louise, or could create an estate by prescription
in favour of said St. Cyr.
5th. That if the jury shall be of opinion, from the evidence, that
St. Cyr was a purchaser'at the public sale of the property of Louis
Chancellier, or signed his name, or made his mark as purchaser on
the margin of said sale; these facts are prima facie evidence that said
St. Cyr had notice of the title of said Marie Louise, as purchaser at
said sale of the lots therein described, as sold to her.
6th. That the deeds given in evidence by defendant to, Rene Kiersereau, bearing date the 23d of October, 1793, conveyed nothing to
St. Cyr; being made by a person out of possession, and whose conveyance for the same land to another person, to Cbancellier, was upon
record, and who therefore was guilty of the crime of "Estellionato,"
punishable by fine and banishment, by the Spanish law then in
force.
7th. That the deed given in evidence by defendant from Joseph
Gamache to Hyacinth St. Cyr, dated 23d October, 1793, is void on
the ground of "Estellionato" in Batis Gamache, supposing that he
made the deed; 2d, on the ground of uncertainty in the deed itself,
in this, that it purports to be a deed of Joseph Gamache, and is
signed Batis Gamache t his mark.
8th. That Auguste Choteau took no estate by prescription in either
of said forty arpent lots-in question.
9th. That there is no evidence of possession whatever, adverse or
otherwise, by Auguste Choteau, of said two forty arpent lots, or any
part thereof.
10th. That if the jury shall be of opinion, from the evidence before them, that the said Auguste Choteau had notice of the public
sale of said lots to Madame Marie Louise Chancellier, his possession
or claim to said lots under Hyacinth St. Cyr is fraudulent and void
as against said Marie Louise, and her heirs and assigns;
11th. That the certified copy- of the proceedings and sale by the
syndic, in the matter of Hyacinth St. Cyr, a bankrupt, is not evidence either of St. Cyr's title to either of the lots in question, or that

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

same were sold by said syndic to said Auguete Choteau, as part of
said St. Cyr's property.
12th. That the defendant has shown no title by prescription,'under
the Spanish or civil law, or by the statutes of limitation, (in bar of
plaintiff,) under the Anglo American laws, to the lots in question.
13th. That the title of the defendant, as assignee of Auguste Choteau, is vitiated by the fraud which vitiates the title of Choteau and
of St. Cyr.
14th. That the deed from Auguste Choteau and wife, to Lucas, of
the lots in question, dated 11th January, 1808, is void for fraud; if,
in opinion of jury, it was a sale and conveyance to Lucas of a claim
and. interest pending before said Lucas himself for adjudication.
15th. That if, in the opinion of the jury, the claim was pending
before Lucas, as commissioner, when he bought it, the adjudication
or confirmation'of it on the 23d July, 1810, by the board of commissioners, of which Lucas was a member, is fraudulent and void at
law and in equity.
16th. That neither the statute of limitations, nor the Spanish law
of prescription, can avail the defendant, Lucas, independently of the
possession of St. Cyr and Choteau;
17th. That the orders of survey given in evidence by the defendant, and made by himself and his two colleagues in favour of Auguste Choteau, bearing date June i0th, 1811,, was fraudulent and
void; if the jury shall be of opinion, from the evidence, that the
claims therein ordered to be surveyed, had been sold to said defendant by said Choteau, previous to the date of said order; and while
said claims were pending for adjudication before said defendant, as
member of the board of commissioners in said order mentioned.
18th. That if any penal effect resulted from any act of congress, to
Madame Chanc'llier and her assigns, or to the legal represehitatives
of Rene Kicrsereau and J. B. Gamache, the act of congress of
January, 1831, entitled, "an act further supplemental to the act,
entitled; an act making further provisions for settling the claims to
landp in the territory-of Missouri, passed the thirteenth day of Jupe,
one thousand eight hundred and twelve," remits the parties to their
original and equitable rights and titlrs, as if no such penal act had
ever been in force.
-19th. That upon the case made by the plaintiff, h9 is entitled to a
verdict for all that part of the two forty arpent lots in question, situVoL. XI,--3 N

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

ated west of Seventh street, in St. Louis, and all the lots east of
Seventh street, accordijig to the admissions of defendant as above.
20th. That in this case there is no law or binding ordinance of the
Spanish government, by which Midame Chancellier, and those claiming under her, could be deprived,, according to the state of the evidence in this case, of whatever title she acquireA 1o the land in question, under the purchase made of it by her as the property of her
husband.
21st. That if the jury believes, from the evidence, that St. Cyr
ceased to cultivate and be in actual possession of the premises in dispute, from 1797, or, 1798, prescription ceased. to run in his favour,
and that of those who claim under him from that time.
Which instructions the court refused to give; but instructed the
jury in relation to the matter, referred to in the first instruction above
refused: " that the pale, and partition, and final decree, the record of
,which certified copies have been given in evidence by the plaintiff,
did pass the title of Louis Chancellier, mentioned in said proceedings of sale, such as it .was at the time of his death,,or such as it was
in his heirs at the time of said s'ale to Madame-Marie Louise, his
widow, mentioned in said proceedings, and. her heirs, to the lands
described in said record of sale and partition, as sold and allotted to
her.
And fprther instructed'.the jury, in relation to the matteirz mentioned- in the fifth instructioA above refused: "that if the jury should
be of opinion that St. Cyr, under whom the defendant claims, was a
purchaser at said public sale of the property of said Louis Chanceltier, or did sign his nanme or make his mark on the margin of the record of said sale: these facts, or either of them, is evidence proper
for them to consider in ascertainingwhether said St. Cyr had notice
of the said title of' said Marie Louise, as purchaser at the said sale of
the lots described in the record theieof as sold to her."
And further instructed the jury, in relation to the matters referred
to in the eleventh instruction above refused: "that the certified copy
of the proceedings and sale by the syndic, of the property and estate
of St. Cyr as a hankrupt,,was not evidence of a title to said St. Cyr
to the lots in question, or either of them."
And further instructed the jury, in relation to the matters referred
to in the twelfth instruction above refused,.and to the statutes of limitation referred to in that refused instruction: "that the defendanx

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

bad shown no title to the lots in question, nor any bar'to the plaintiff's recovery under any statute or statutes of limitation."
And further instructed the jury, in relation to the matters r~ferred
to in the sixteenth instruction above refused: "that the statute of limitations could not avail the defendant, Lucas, either with or independent of the possession, of St. Cyr."
And further instructed the jury, in relation to the matters referred
to in the eighteenth instruction above refused: "that although thb
act of congress of the 31st of January, 1831, referred to in said refused instruction last, mentioned, does not remit the penalties as in
that refused insti'uction is supposed by the plaintiff; yet, that in fact
no penal effect results from any act of congress which bars or §tands
in the way of plaintiff's recbvery in the present action; or which in
any manner affects his title or evidence of title, under, or to be derived from said -acts, or any of them, under the'admissions of the parties in the present case."
The first instruction refused, could not be given in the form it
was asked, because it would have concluded-the cause' as to fact and
law. The explanations given by the court were proper.
The second and third asked the. court to pronounce on the facts.
The fourth asked the court to declare, that if St. Cyr had notice
of Madame Chancellier's purchase, his title could not be confirmed
by prescription. St. Cyr, and those claiming under him, could have
prescribed notwithstanding such knowledge, bad the possession been
continued a sufficient length of time. On this point, the charge of
the districf judge, in- response to the instructions asked by the defendant, is substantially accurate.
The explanirion of the fifth instruction asked, is highly favourable to the plaintiff.
The sixth asked the court to instruct the jury that Kiersereau was
not in possession when he made the deed,; and therefor8 it was void.
If St, Cyr was in lawful possession for himself, no forfeiture could
follow by the conveyance to him; -and this depended on the fact
whether St. Cyr was lawfully in possession. How the civil law was,
in 1793, in cases of conveyances, where the lands were.claimed and
holden in actual possession, adversely'to the grantor and grantee at
the time the deed was made; is immaterial, and is not decided.
The seventh, eighth and ninth instructions asked, propose. to re.
fer to the court for decision, questions of fact, pertaining to the
jury.

SUPREME COURT.
[Strother v. Lucam.]

The tenth assumes that Choteau's possession was void, if he' had
notice of the sale to Madame Chancellier This by no means follows. He might have possessed in good faith, notwithstanding; of
which the jury were, to judge. But if the possession was in bad
faith, still its continuance for thirty years by Choteau and those,
from whom he derived it, and the subsequent continuance thereof
by Lucas, would have authorized the prescription.
The eleventh and twelfth instructions asked were given; and
th thirteenth asked the court to. charge on the fact, and to declare
to the jury there was fraud: a principal matter they were called on
to try.
The fourteentli, fifteenth and seventdenth instructions are the same
that were in the cause previously before this Court; when it was
decided, that Lucas could purchase under the circumstances indicated. The point is not deemed open to invesjigation: such is the
opinion of my brethren who decided that cause, and with which I
concur.
The sixteenth asks a charge on the fact, how Lucas held possession, and the length of its continuance.; and was properly refused.
The eighteenth was correctly explained by the district court.
The nineteenth proposes, in effect, that the 'caiise be decided by
the court. 'Had the instruction been given, it would have withdra.wn from the jury the determination of the facts.
To the twentieth, it may be answered, that by the laws of Spain,'
Madame Chancellier's title might have been prescribed against.
The twenty-first is correctly answered by the district court. The
judge said to the jury.: "That if they should find from the evidence that said St. Cyr took'possession, or was in possession of the
lands in controversy, or any'of them, under said Marie Louise, or as
her tenant, his possession so taken or held would be the possession
of the said Marie Louise; and would not be a possession in St. Cyr,
available by him 'or those claiming under him, under the law of prescription mentioned. But, that if the jury should be of ,opinion,.
that said St. Cyr came to the possession of the lan"'in controversy,
not as the tenant of the said Marie Louise, or'under her, but under
a claim and 'title adverse to her; .such adverse claim
and possession
would constitute a possession upon which aprescription, by the Spanish or civil law referred to and then in force, would begin to run in
favour of him, and those claiming under him, if suci possession was
actual, open, and notorious; and that such possession so commenced,

JANUARY, TERM, 18$8.
[Strother v. Lucas]

would constitute and preserve to said St. Cyr, his heirs or assigns, a
possession available under the law of prescription referred to; notwithstanding said St. Cyr, or those deriving title from him, should leave
the actual possession or cease to occupy and cultivate, if that abandonment of.the actual possession, occupancy, or cultivation was with
the intention to return, and without any mental abandonment of the
possession."
Instructions asked .by defendant, and given by 'the court:
1st. "That if the jury find from the evidence that Hyacinth St.
Cyr, and those lawfully claiming unde him, have possessed the two
arpents by forty, surveyed for GCamache and Kiersereau, without interruption, and With claim of title for thirty years, consecutively,
prior to October, 1818,,the plaintiff is not entitled to' recover in this
action.
2d.- "If the jury find from the evidence that Hyacinth'St. Cyr,
and those lawfully claiming under him,'possessed the two lots'in the
declaration mentioned, for ten years, consecutively, prior to, and until
the 23d day of July, 1810, and the lands confirmed to Auguste
Choteau on that day, are the same lands in the declaration mentioned; the plaintiff cannot recover in this action.
3d. " If the jury'find 'from the evidence that the defendant possessed the lots of land in the declaration mentioned for ten years,
consecutively, prior to the first of October, 1818, the plaintiff cannot
recover in this action."
Which instructions the court gave to the jury; with the further
instruction "That the possession mentioned must be an open alid
notorious possession; and that if they should find such possession,
it gave title under, and according to the Spanish or civil law, which
was in force in Upper Louisiana at the date of the treaty, by which
Louisiana was acquired by the United States; and remained in force
and unabrogated by any law of the district of, Louisiana or of Missouri, down to a period as late as October, 1818. That the possession of 'ten or thirty years would give a title, the one period or the
other according to the circumstances u'nder which te possession waF
obtained. That the ten years' possession which would give a prescriptive title, must be a possession under a purchase made in good faith;
and wvhere' the purchaser believed that the person of whom he, purchased had a good title; and where the owner of the title prescribed
against resided in the same country during the said ten years. That
if the jury believe from the evidence, that the possession of St. Cyr,

SUPREME, COURT.
[Strother v. Lucas.]

under whom the defendant claims, was obtained under a purchase
made by him in good faith, and under the belief that the persons of
*hom he purchased had a good title; and that the possession of Choteau, under whom the defen'dant claims, was obtained in like manner
and under a purchase made with the.like belief; and that they had
the possession mentioned in the second instruction asked for on the
part of the defendant; and that the said Marie Louise was in the
country during the said ten years, the plaintiff cannot recover in
'this action."
And further instructed the jury, in relation to the possession mentioned in the third instruction asked for on the part of the defendant: "that to make the possession there mentioned a bar to the
plaintiff's recovery in the present action, the possession of the defendant must have been obtained under a purchase, where' he believed that the persons of whom he purchased had a good title,,and
that the said Marie Louise was in the countiy during the said ten
years; which, unless the jury believe, they cannot find for the :d.
fendant upon such possession."
The.-foregging instructions given for the defendant, with the explanations, are substantially correct.
This is the whole ease; in the affirmance of the judgment in
which, I concur, for the reasons here stated. But there are, various
principles introduced into the preceding opinion, the accuracy' of
which I very much doubt. Furthermore: it is apprehended they
are foreign to the case -presented by the record; and it is feared
their introduction iJto it, may lend them a sanction they do not deserve, and embarrass the infeiior courts, and this Court, in future, in
the numerous -controversies now depending, and likely to arise on
the titles of Florida, Louisiana, Missouri, Arkansas and Wisconsin,
involving ,he application and construction 6f the laws of France and
Spain: and 'hence this separate opinion has been filed.
Mr. Justice WA&YwE stated that he dissented from 'the opinion of
the Court, delivered by jMr. Justice Baldwin. He was authorized to
say that Mr. Justice M'Kinley concurred with him in opinion.
The title-to the lots was in Chancellier at the time of his death. St.
Cyr obtained a title by fraud, and. by fraud he continued in possession.
Choteau's claim is not such as divested the title of Chancellier,
according to the Spanish law.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

47T

[Strother v. Lucas.]
Mr. Justice M'L AN dissented.
Mr. Chief Justice, TANEY did not sit.in this cause, having been
of counsel for one of the parties.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the district court of the United States for the district of Missouri; and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here adjudged. and ordered by. this Court, that the judgm at.of
the said district 'court in this cause be, and the -same. is hereby.
affirmed, with cnsts.

