SUPREME COURT.

Ex PrATE EMILY

-T. AND

MATILDA POULTNMY, COMPLAINANTS 7.

THE CITY OF LA FAYETTE,/SHIELDS, ET AL.

A ubOpmna

in chancery was issued in the circuit court of the United States tbrthe
Louisiana district, on-the 15th of July, 1837, returnable to the next term of the
court'to beholden in November. Some of-the defendants appeared, and an affidavit was filed, statio'g that upwards of two hundred persons were named as defendants in the bill, and that owing. to~the epidemic in New Orleans and at La:
Fyette, and the absence of many of the defendants, it'
had been impossible for the
defendants to prepare for a defence to the bill; fqr this and for other reasons, an
extension of the tim9 for their appearance was essentiafly necessary for their proper
defence, .&c.: and that. the application was not made for delay. The circuit
6ouri, on this affidavit, laid a rule on the compjainants to show cause why the defendants should not be allowed, to the next term t6 make their, appearance and
defence; and that in the mean time no further proceeding should be had in the
case. The solicitors for the complainants, moved that the cause should be placed
on the rule '4ocket of the court, that the complainants might proceed in'the causb,

according to the chancery practice.

This motion was over ruled by the circuit

court. The: complainants mo .Yed the Supreme Court for a rule on thecircuit-court
to sh ,cause why a mandamus, in the nature of a procedendo, should not issue,
commanditig the court, to send the case to the rule',docet of the court. By the
Court-We can preceive nothing in the proceedings of the circuit court to warrant the rule to show cause, which has been asked for in behalf of the complainants; on the' contrary,judging from the dvidence contained in the record, the
conduct of the 'court in relation to thd cause in question, appears to have been
strictly conformable to the practice and principles of a court of equity.
The statementg contained in a petition- addressed to the Supreme Court, asking for
-a rule to show cause 4vhy a mandamusr, in the nature of a writ of procedendo,
should not be "ssued," not b~ing verified by-affidavit;, they cannot, under the decisions and practice of the court, be considered.
Every 6ourt of equity possesses the power to mould its rules in relatibn to the time
and manner of appearing and answeripg, so as to prevent the rule from working
injustice. And it is'not only in the power of the court, but it is its duty to exerj
cise a sound discretion upon this subject;. and to enlarge the time whenever it
shall appear that the purposes of justice require it. The 'roles in chancery proceedings in the circuit courts, prescribed by this Court, do not, and were not intended to deprive the courts of the United States of this well known and necessary power.

.ON a motion, by Mr. Crittenden, for a rule on the judges of the
circuit court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, for a rule to show cause why a mandamus, in the nature of
A writ of procedendo, should not issue, &c.

JANUARY- TERM, 1-838.
[Ex parte Poultney v. The 'City of La Fayette et al.]
TANEr delivered the opinion 6f the

Mr. Chief Justice

473
Court:

This case comes before us upou'a Iiotion on the part of 'the complainants, for a rule upon the judges of the circuit court for the eastern district of Louisiaina, to shoi; cause why a mandamus, 'in the
nature of a writ- of procedendo, should not 'issue from this Court;
commanding' the circuit court to "remand -this suit' to the rule
docket of the court, so that, the' complainants may proceed ther~iII
according to chancery practice."
The copy of the record upon which this motion is founded, shows.
that -a bill in equity was fired in the circuit 'court, by the above
named complainaits, against the above named defendants, on the
15thof July, 1837; and that subpmria thereupon issued, returnable
to the next term of the circuit court, to be*holdenon the third, Morfday in November, in the same year. On the returr 'of the subpmnas, some of the defendantsappeared; and an, affidavit was. filed
on behalf of a great number of them, stating that upwards of two
hundred' persons were named as defendants in the bill; that ot'ing
to the 'epidemic which had prevailed in' the city of N~w Orleans
and city of La: Fayette, and the absence of many persons, and the
recent service of the process upon many of the defendants, it 'had
been impossible for the greater part of them, until within a.short
time before, to take the steps which they deemed necessary to their
defence; that they had but recently been able to, engage, counsel,
and had been informed by them,.that it was wholly out of their
power, with a due regard to the rights of their clients, to ascertain
the facts necessary to enable them to, decide -upon the nature and
mode of defence at that term; that there was some uncertainty as
to the proper' mode of pro qeeding in equity in the circuit court, on
account of recent decisions on the subject; and that on account of
the great importance of the matters to be tried, an extension of time
for' the appearance of the defendants was essentially necessary to
their proper defence, and to obtain the ends'of justice; and' that the
affidavit was not made for .dqlay, but solely for the ends of justice.
Upon this affidavit, the court laid a rule upon the complainants to
show cause on the' next day, the 21st of November, why the defendants should not be allowed until the first day of the next term to
make their appearance and defence; and in the meantime that nO further step or proceeding be had in the case.
On the 15th of December, at'the same term, the complainants, by
their solicitors, movel the court "to enter an order, directing the
'VOL.XII.-3 0

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Poultney v. The City of La Fayette et al.]

clerk of the court to place the cajuse upon the rule docket of the,
court, so that the complainants might proceed in the cause according
to the chancery practice."
This motion was overruled by the court.
It does not appear whether the time asked. for by the defendants
was given or not; nor is there any further order or proceeding in
the case, in the certified copy of the record from the circuit court,
filed here by the complainants. An attested copy of, a rule of proceeding in civil cases, adopted by the circuit court on the 20th of

November, 1837, accompanies the record; but it does not appear that
any thing has been done or omitted to be done under this rule, in the
suit nowv in question.
The, statements contained in the petition addressed to this Court,
not being verified by affidavit, they cannot, under the decisions and
practice of the Coidrt, be considered in the matter before us.
We perceive ,nothing in the proceedings of the circuit court to
warrant the rule to show cause which has been asked for in behalf of the complainants. On the contrary, judging from the evidence
contained in the record, the conduct of the court in relation to the
cause in question, appears to have been strictly conformable to the-practice and principles of a court of equity.
The particular object of the motion made by. the complainants in
the circuit court, is not distinctly stated. It did not ask for any specific order or process, but appears to have been made in opposition
to the previous motion of the defendants for time to answer. And,
from the terms used in the motion of the complainants, we suppose
they desired the court to deny the motion of the defendants, and to
allow the complainants, to proceed at the rules to be held by the clerk,
without any extension of the time to answer.
The rules of chancery practice, mentioned in the motion of the
complainants, must, of course, menan the rules prescribed by this
Court for the government of the courts of equity of the United
States, under the act of congress of May 8, 1792, ch. 137, s. 2; which
ate undoubtedly obligatory on the circuit courts. But if the order
had been made pursuant to the motion, And the case transferred to
the rules, under the direction of the clerk, the time asked for by the'defendants, would, in effect, have been refused; and under the 6th
rule of practice prescribed for the circuit courts, the complainants
would have been entitled to proceed on their bill as confessed, if thedefendants did not appear and file their answer within three months
after the day 'of appearance limited by these rules. We think the

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

475

[Ex parte Poutltney v. The City of La Fayette et al.]

court did right in refusing'this motion. Every court of equity possesses the power to mould its rules in relation to the time and manner of appearing and answering, so as to preyent the rule from
working injustice; and it is not only in the power of the court, but
it is its duty to'exercise a sound discretion upon this subject, and to
enlarge the time, whenever it shall appear that the purposes of justice
require it. The rules prescribed by this Court do not.snd were
not intended to deprive tie courts of the United States of this well
known and necessary power; and the facts stated in the affidavit before referred to, certainly presented a case in which it was proper
to exercise it.
In expressing our.opinion on the conduct of the court, we ao not
mean to intimate that a mandamus would have been the proper.
remedy, if we had found that the court had fallen into error. It is
not our purpose, on this occasion, to express any opinion as to the
cases in which it would be fit for this Court to exercise such a
power. In the evidence exhibited by the complainants, we perceive
no just ground of complaint .against the decision of the circuit court,
and have therefore felt it to be our duty to say so; but at the same
time, to refrain from expressing any opinion upon questions which
do not belong to the case.
The motion for the rule to show cause why a mandamus should
not issue, is therefore overruled.

On motion for a rule on the judges of the circuit court 'of the
United States for the eastern distrit of Louisiana, to show cause, &C.
On consideration of the motion made in this cause, on a prior day
of the present term of this Court, to Wit, on Monday, thbfifth day of
February, A. D.'1838, by Mr. Crittfenden, of counsel for the peti-5
tioners, fpr a rule on the judges of the circuit court of the United
StaLes for the eastern district of Louisiana, to showcausewhy a writ
of mandamus should not be awarded to them directed, commanding
them, the said judges, to make an order remanding the above suit
to the rules docket of the said circuit court, so that the, petitioners
therein may proceed according to chancery practice, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon had; it is now here ordered and
adjudged, by this Court, that the said motion be, and the same is
h.rreby overruled.

