JANUARY TERM, 1838.

MARTHA BRADSTREET, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR v. ANSON THOMAS.
The demandant, a subject of the king of Great Britain, instituted an action by writ
of right, in the district court for the northern district of New York, against the
defendant, a citizen of New York. In the declaration, there was no averment that
the defendant was a citizen of New York. The defendant pleaded to the first count
in the declaration, and demurred to the second and third counts; the demandant
joined in the demurrer, and averred that'the defendant was a citizen of New York;
In the subsequent proceedings in the case in the district court, and afterwards in
the Supreme Court, no exception was taken by the defendant, that there was no
averment in the declaration, that the defendant was a citizen of the United States;
and not until the case came a second time before the Supreme Court, to which it
was now brought by a writ of errror, prosecuted by the demandant in the writ of
right. The defendant moved to dismiss the writ of error, for the want of an'averment of the citizenship of the defendantin the declaration. The court overruled
the motjon.
The district court was not bound to recelve the averment of the citizenship of the defendant in the joinder in demurrer; and c]early ought not to have received it,
if it
had been objected to by the tenant. But he has waived the objection, by failing to
make it at an earlier stage of the cause: and after the proceedings which have
taken place in the district court, and in this Court; and when the cause has been
so long continued, and allowed to proceed in the same condition of the pleadings
and averments, it would be unjust to the demandant to dismiss it upon this mere
technical informality. The pleadings, in fact, contain all the averxhents required
by the decisions of this Court, to give jurisdiction to the conrts of the United
States; and as they appear to'have been acquiesced'in by the tenant, and regarded
as sufficient in the district court, and were not objected to in this Court, wlhen the
case was here on the application for a mandamus; the informality cannot be relied
on now to dismiss the suit.

WRIT of error to the district court of the nortlhern district.of New
York.
Mr. Beardsley moved to dismiss the writ of error, it not being
stated in the writ or declaration, that the defendant was a citizen of'
the state of New York. The plaintiff is an alien) and this is stated in
due form; but nothing is said of the citizenship of the defendant.
The constitution of the United States giveg jurisdiction to the
courts of the United States, when an alien is a party, who sues a defendant, a citizen of the state in which the suit maybe brought; and
it has been expressly decided, that both parties must be stated, descriptively, in the pleadings. And where, as in this case, jurisdiction depends on the character of the parties, the averment of character

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet v. Thomas.]

is not matter of' form, but of substance, it may be traversed; and in
that eent, must be proved like any other material fact. Cited, 5
Cranch, 303; 4 Dallas, 12; 3 Dallas, 382;. and 1 Cond. Rep. 170,
where all the cases are collected in a note.
There is no averment of the value of the property in either count
of the plaintiff's declaration; although it appears from the bill of exceptions, to have been of the value of two thousand dollars. There
is, however, no doubt of the right of the party to prove the value of
the property to be such as will give the right to a writ of error: this
is not now taken as an objection to the proceeding to bring the case
before this Court. The objection, so far as respects the point of value,
is ihat the court below had no jurisdiction; there being no averment
that the property was worth: more than five hundred dollars. The
defendant relies on the absence of the necessary averment of the
citizenship of the defendant, as a sufficient ground to dismiss the
writ of error, the district court of New York not having had jurisdiction to entertain the cause.
.Mr. Meyer and Mr. Jones for the defendant.
The motion t9, dismiss the writ of error, is founded on the allegation that there is no averment of the citizenship of the defendant;
although, that the plaintiff is a subject of the king of Great Britain,
is stated in the writ.
It is too well established to permit it to be controverted, that an
alien cannot sue in the courts of the United States; unless the fact of
alienage is stated, and the defendant is stated to be a citizen of the
state in which the suit may be instituted. This is under the provision of the constitution of the United States, and under the judiciary act of 1789. It must apnear in the proceedings in the case,
that such is the relative position of the parties.
In this case, there is An averment of the citizenship of the defendant, and this will be found in the plaintiff's joinder in demurrer;
where it is distinctly and explicitly averred, that the defendant is a
citizen of the state of New York, and a resident in the northern district of that state. The defendant had demurred, and the plaintiff
joined in the demurrer; accompanying this with an averment of the
defendant's citizenship and residence. The question before the Court
is, whether this is sufficient.
No objection to the insufficiency of the averment, or to its location,
was made on'the trial of the cause. Thd parties had been before this

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Bradstreet v. Thomnas.]

Court on a former occasion, 7 Peters, 634, and after argument, a
mandamus was issued to the judge of the district court, under which
the case was restored to the docket; and after which the trial took
place. In none of those proceedings was an objection made to the
absence of the averment of the citizenship of the defendant, in the
early part of the pleadings.
It is not known why the averment of the citizenship may not be
postponed by the consent of the parties to the latter part of the pleadings. The fact of the alienage of the plaintiff, and of the citizenship
of the defendant, was well known, and therefore the objection was
not taken.. Had it been taken in the early stage of the case, an
amendment would have been moved, and would have been admitted.
There is no rigid rule which requires the averment of citizenship
to have a particular locality. No rule which requires a party to exhibit his case in any particular part of the pleadings. A party may
change his case by averments, if his opponent does not except to
them. This shows that there is no judicial requirement as to where
they shall appear, if no dissent is given by the opposite party. So,
too, defects in pleading may be cured by implications from the
pleadings of the opposite party. 1 Chitty on Plead. 710; 1 Chitty,
467-68. These authorities show, that if in the course of the pleadings facts appear, the court will consider them as facts, upon which
they may judicially act.
For the honour of the common law, it will not be said that it does
not aid the party in exhibiting his case. Why else are new averments allowed? There is no rule as to the locality of averments; And
no rule which requires the matters to be stated in the early part of
the pleadings on which the court are permitted to proceed in the
cause.
Many cases have been adjudged in the circuit, and in the Supreme
Court, as to the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, dependent on the character of the parties; but ii4 no one of them is it
settled, where the averments on the subject shall appear.
In the case of Montalet v. Murray, 4 Cranch, 46; q Cond. Rep.
19, while it is decided, that to give jurisdiction, the character of the
parties to the suit must appear on the record; it is no where said on
what part of the. record there shall be this description. If it appears
on any part of the record, that the parties are such as to give the
court jurisdiction, this is a full compliance with the requisitions of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstr~et v. Thomas.]

constitution, and the act of congress. All the exigencies of the law
are complied with.
After a trial and verdict, the party is not allowed to except to the
jurisdiction of the court, even in a case in which the court had not jurisdiction. It iq too late; 4 Wash. C. C. R. 483. A case may be submitted to the court, on a statement of facts, and have all the substance
of a case presented on formal special pleadings. The only object of
the pleadings, is to exhibit the case. This shows the court does not
look at forms, if the substance is preservel. In this case, the Court
cannot but see that the parties are within their jurisdiction.
How is it as to the tenant in the case before the Court? and
what will be his situation if strict rules are applied to him? As a
general principle, a'plea to the jurisdiction should be put in before a
plea to the merits; and the question of jurisdiction is supposed to be
waived by a neglect to plead it. 4 Mason's C. C. R. 434; 3 John.
Rep. 105; 1 Paine, 594. Cited also, 11 Peters,_85, as to the mode
and time of pleading to jurisdiction.
This Court has always reluctantly exercised its power to dismiss a
case for want of jurisdiction. The cases are numerous to show this.
In every such case which has been dismissed, there has been a want
of an averment; and no proof of the citizenship of, the party. But
in this case there is an averment, and the defendant does not deny its
truth. He. holds back after the suit is brought; he subjects the
plaintiff to all the expenses of prosecuting his action; he submits to
havethe cause brought up to this Court, and to the action of this Court
on the case by a mandamus to the district judge; to a trial; to a bill
of exceptions and verdict; to a writ of error to this Court: and now,
without a denial of the fact averred, that he is a citizen and resident
of the western district of New York, he asks that the case shall be
dismissed. Cases cited in the argument: 8 Wheat. 421; 1 Mason's
C. C.,R. 360; 1 Paine, 410; 6 Cranch, 267.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
A motion has'been made-by the defendant in error to dismiss this
case, upon the ground that the averments necessary to give jurisdiction to the courts of the United States do not appear in the record.
The decisions which have heretofore been made on this subject, render it proper that the circumstances under which this motion comes
before the Court should be stated.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Bradstreet v. Thomas.]

A writ of right was brought in the district court for the northern
district of New York, to recover certain lands situated in the state of
New York. The demandant, in her declaration, avers that.she is an
alien, and a subject of the king of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland; but does not aver that the tenant is a citizen of the
state of New York, or of any other state of the United States. The
suit was brought to Japuary term, 1825,at which term the tenant appeared, and prayed leave to imparle until the next term; "saving
all objections as well to the jurisdiction of the court as to the.writ
and count."
The case was continued from term to term, until August term
1826, when the tenant put in the usual plea to the first count, and
demurred to the second and third; setting down special causes of demurrer. The demandant joined in the mise on the plea, and joined in
the demurrer; and, in her joinder in demurrer, she averred that the
defendant was a citizen of the state of New York. The want of this
averment of citizenship in the counts was not one of the causes of
demurrer assigned by the tenant. The demu'rers were 'decided.
against the demandant at August term, 1827; and, further proceed"ings were had which it is unnecessary to state here, 'and the case
continued until August term, 1831, when the defendani moved the
court to dismiss the suit for-want of jurisdiction: assigning as thb
foundation of this motion, the want of an averment of the pecuniary
value of the lands demanded in the counts filed by the demandant.
The court sustained the motion, and dismissed the suit. But at
that time no objection to the jurisdiction was made on account of
the omission to aver the citizenship of the tenant.
In 1832, this dismissal:of the suit was brought before the Supreme
Court, and a rule laid on the district court to show cause why the
case should not be reinstated in that court: and at January term,
1833, a peremptory mandamus was issued by this Court, commanding the district court to reinstate the suit, and "to , proceed to try
and adjudge according to the law and right of the case, the said writ
of right and the mise therein joined." The mandamus was obeyed
and the cause reinstated, and the mise tricl and found against the
demandant; and judgment entered against her at November, 1837.
The case is now before us upon a writ of error on this judgment;
and a motion is made to dismiss the case, upop the ground that
neither the district Court nor this couk cohild have jurisdiction of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Bradstreet v. Thomas.]

suit; because the demandant is an alien, and there is no averment
that the tenant was a citizen of New York.
The above statement of the proceedings makes it evident that the
dismissal of the suit, upon this ground, at this time, would be a surprise upon the demandant, who has been prosecuting the suit for
many years; most probably under the impression that the averment
of citizenship contained in her joinder in demurrer, was cpnsidered
by this Court and by the district court, to be a sufficient compliance
with the rules of pleading established by the decisions of this Court.
For the averment in question was received in the district court without objection; and, indeed, would seem to have b~en regarded as sufficient by that court; because when the suit was dismissed there,
upon the ground that the counts did not contain proper averments to
give jurisdiction, no notice was taken.of the wani of this averment
in the counts,.nor any objection to the place where it had been inserted in the pleadings; and when the case was brought before this
Court, on the application for the mandamusthe fault in the pleadings now charged, was not noticed by the court in the opinion deliVered, and does not appear to have been brought to their attention
by. the counsel for the tenant. 7 Peters, 634. The demandant
might, therefore, reasonably have supposed that. the Court deemed
the averment sufficient; because certainly the mandamus would not
have been issued, commanding the district _court to reinstate the
case, and procee.d to try it; unless this Court had been of opinion
that a sufficient cause was presented by the pleadings to give jurisdiction to the district court.
The principle on which this averment has been required is purely
technical. But the rule has been established by the decisions of this
Court, and we do not mean to disturb it; und the proper place for
the averment is undoubtedly in the declaration: of the plaintiff in the
cause.
The district court was not bound to receive it in the joinder in
demurrer; dnd clearly ought not to have received it, if it had been
objected to by the tenant. But he has waived the objeqtion, by failing to make it in an earlier stage of the causer and after the proceedings which have taken place in the district court, and in this Court;
and.when the cause has been so long continued and allowed to proceed in the same condition of the pleadings and avefments, it would
be unjust to the demandant to dismiss it upon this mere technical

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Bradstreet v. Thomas.]

informality. The pleadings, in fact, contain all th6 averments required by the decisions of this Court, to give jurisdiction to the
courts of the United Stdtes; and as they appear
to have been acquiesced in by the tenant, and regarded as sufficient in the district
court, and were not objected to in this Court when the case was
here on the application for a mandamus; we do not think the informality can be relied on now, to dismiss the suit.
The motion is therefore overruled.

VOL. XII.-I

