SUPREME COURT.

EX PARTE, CHARLES F.

SIBBALD, APPELLEE V. THE UNITED

STATES, APPETLANTS.
On an appeal from the superior court of East Florida by the United States, the decree of-the court of East Florida was in part affirmed; the title of Sibbal, the
appellee,,to whom the grant of land had been made by the Spanish governof, before the cOssioh of'Florida, having been deemed Valid by the Supreme Court. The
decree, of the Supreme Court directed the surveyor of public lands in East Florida to do all things enjoined on him by law, in relation to the lands in the surveys
made for the grantee. The case was renanded to the superior court of East
Florida, for 'the execution of this decree; The mandate of the Supreme Court for
th execution of'the decree of the Supreme Cdurt, was directed to the superior
court.of ,East Florida; and the surveyor of public landswould not make the surveys of the, lands in the grant, according.to the decision of the Court, the mandate
n othaving been issued to him. A petition was presented to the Court by Sibbald,
stating these act, and asking the Court to order that a mandate be made out, di-.
recting the surveyor of. public 'lands to do all required of him in relation to the
surveys of the lands 9f, the grantee, in conformity 'vith the decree of the Conrt:
and also to the superior court of East Florida, directing the court to cause: further
to be done therein what of right and according to law and justice, and in conformity to the decree of the Court, ought tq be done. By the Couit -Had it appeared;
that a mandate more special than the 'one which was sent would have been necessary, it would have been 'ordered.
The Court is bound to grant a mandate
which will suit the case, The maAndate which is annexed to the petition, was issued by the clerk, directed only to the. court below, and no direction is given, to
the jsurveyor. It is, therefore, no execution f the final decree of the Supreme
Court; and as it remains unexecuted, it is not too late to have it done; and requires no new order or decree in'any way modifyirig that which has been rendered.
The clerk was ordered to make out a certificate of th6 final decree ofthe Court be.
fore rendered; and also, a mandate according to such final decree, the opinion of
the Court in the case, and on the petition.
Appellatepower is exercised over the proceedings of inferior courts, not on those of
the appellate courts. The superior court have no power to review tieir decisionsi
whether in a case at-law or equity. A finai decree in'Phancery is as conclusive as a
judgment at law. Both are conclusive on the rights of the parties thereby adjudicated. No principle is better settled, or of more universal application, that no
court can reverse or apnul its own final decrees or judgments for errors of fact or
law after the term in which they have been rendered, unless for clerical mistakes;
or to reinstate a cause, dismissqd by mistake: from which it follows, that no change
or modification can be nYade which may substantially vary or affect it, in any material thing. Bills of ieview. in cases of equity, and writs of error, coram vobis,
at law, are exceptions.
When the Supreme Court have executed their pnwer in a case before them, and
their final decree or judgment requires sbme further act to be done, it cannot issue
an execution, but will send a special mandate to the court below to award it.
,
Whatever was before the Court and6is disposed of is considered finally settled.

JA1UARY TERM, 1838.

489

[Ex parte Sibbald v. The United states.]

The inferior court is bound by the decree, as the law of the case; and must carry
it into execution according to the mandate: they can examine it for no other purpose than execution; or give any other or further relief; or review it upon any
matter decided on appeal, for'error apparent;, or intermeddle with it further than to

settle so mnuch as has been remanded.
After a mandate, no rehearing willbe granted: and on a subsequent appeal, nothing
is brought up but the proceeding sutbsequ~nt to the mandate.
If the special mandate directed by the 24th section of the judiciary act is not obeyed,
then the general power given to "all tie courts of the United States to issue any

writs which are necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and
agreeable to the principles and usages of law," by the 14th section of the judiciary
act, fairly arises; and a mandamus or other appropriate Writ will go.

Mr. Clarke, for: Mr. Sibbald, moved to reform the mandate issued
by the Court, in this case, at January term, 1836, so as to conform
the same to the opinion given by the Court at that time; or to
issule a mandate to the surveyor general of the districtof East Florida, to-do those acts and things Which -he is commanded to dQ by,
the judgment of this Court, and which are enjoined on him by law.
_He cited 10 Peters, 313;.3 StorV's Laws U. S 1962; 9 Peters,
171; 10 Peters-100.
The petition on which the motion wasfmade, stated:
That at January term, 1836, of the Supreme Court-of the United
States, the, case .of the United States, appellants v. Charles F. Sibbald-, appellee, was argued .and determined itt favour of said Charles
F. ,Sibbald; and thereupon the following, decree was given, to wit:"On consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this Court, that the decree, of the said superior- court, confirming
the title of the petitioner to the ten thousand acres on Trout creek,
be, and the, same is hereby affirmed; and that the residue of the decree of the said superior court be, and the same is hereby reversed
and annulled. And this Court, preceeding to render such decree as
the said superior court ought to have rendered, doth order, adjudge,
and decree, that the claim" of the pettioner to the land embraced in
the surveys of four thousand acres, and of two thousand acres, as returned With and contained in the record, is valid; aid that-the same
be, and is hereby confirmed. And it is further ordered, adjudged,
and decreed by this Court, that the surveyor of public lands in the
easterh district of Florida, be, and he is hereby directed to do, and
catqse to be done, all the acts and things enjoined on- him by law, in
relation to the lands within said survey. And that the said cause be,
VOL. XII.-3 Q

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Sibbald v. The United States.]

and the same is hereby remanded to the said superior court to cause
further to be done therein, what of right, and according to law and
justice, and in conformity to the opinion and decree of this Court,
ought-o be done."
Vide 10 Peters, 324.
Your petitioner further represents, that he made application, by
his solicitor, to said superior court of East Florida, to execute the
mandate aforesaid; and which mandate he now exhibits in this Court,
together with the opinion of the judge of said superior court, declining to execute said mandate, according to the requirements of your
petitioner, for want of power or authority under said mandate.
Your petitioner further represents, that by the opinion 'and judgment of this honourable Court, he considered two points as clearly
settled, to wit: first, that he was entitled to the full complement of
sixteen thousand acres, acce -ding to his original grant. Secondly:
That he had an 'inherent privilege to direct or point out where other
locations should be made, in case the survey or surveys made for
him, was interifered with by older and good claims.
Your petitioner further represents, that after said mandate wag
issued, and its execution demanded; it was clearly ascertained that
-there were divers interferences with older surveys, so s' to prevent.
him from obtaining his full amount of lands; unless the 'deficiency
were made up to him by otheir locations, "to be pointed out. It will
be seen by the.opinion of the judge of tsaid -superior court, that he
declined so to direct said surveys, according to his construction of
said mandate.
Your petitioner further sets-forth, that in the decree of said Court,
the surveyor general of East-Florida was ordered and directed to do
certain acts, and make the surveys therein ordered; but that no such
mandate has been directed to said surveyor. He therefore prays
that said niandate may be issued, in such terms as in the opinion of
the Court may be right and proper.
Your petitioner therefore humbly prays your honourable Court to
amend the error in said mandate as to conform to the judgment of the
court; and that full apd complete execution thereof may be had.
The petition was sworn to by Charles F. Sibbald, before a justice
of the peace of.the county of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
On the 7th of March, 1838, the counsel for the petitioner filed the
following suipplemental petition.

JANUARY TERM;I1838.

491

[Ex parte Sibbald v. The United States.]

The supplemnental petition of said Charles F. Sibbald, respectfully
represehts:
That by reference to the judgment of the Court, as set forth in 10
Peters, 324, it was "ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the surveyor of publiclands in the eastern district of Florida, be, and he is,
hereby di'rected to do, and cause to be done,'all the acts and things
enjoined on him by law, in relati6f to the lands within said survey.."
And it was further ordered, adjudged, and decreed: "That the said
cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said superior court,
to cause further to be dore therein, what of right, and according to
law and justice, and in conformity to the opinion, and decree of this
Court, ought to be done.'
Your petitioner respectfully represents, that by the said judgment
and, decree, certain duties were imposed ,upon the surveyor of the
public lands, as well as upon the said superior court; but that the
mandate of this Court as made out by the clerk, is made to the judge
of the superior court only, and none is directed to said stirveyor;
which your petitioner considers not to be an execution of, oq in conf6rmity with th judgment of this Court.
Thefduties of a surveyor are prescribed by the 6th 'and il-th sees.
of the act of congress of 1834, 3 Story, 1962. And by a'n act of
23d May, 1828, are made applicable to cases in Florida. 4 Story,
2126, sec, 6; and.6 Laws U. S. 68, sec. 6.
The duties of the judge of the superior court are defined by the
1st see. of said act of 1824, 3 Story, 1960.
Your petitioner, therefore, respectfully prays that the mandate of
the Court as rendered, be made out by the clerk in conformity tothe
judgment of the Court, and that it be so done as to direct the said
surveyor, by a mandate tc him, to do, or cause to be done, all the
acts and things enjoined on him by law, in relation to the lands
within said surveys. And also to direct the mandate to the superior
court, to cause further to be done therein what of right, and according tp law and justice, and in conforqiity to the opinion and decree
of this Court, ought to be done.
'Mr. Justiee BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the Court:
The matter of the original and supplemental petition of the party
is founded, on a final decree of this Court in the case of the United
States v. Charles F. Sibbald, which is reported in the lOth vol. Peters' Reports at large, in p. 313, 325; in which latter page will be

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Sibbald v. The United States.]

found the final decree and mandate therein made; the substance
whereof isfully set out in the petitions now before us.
Before we proceed to consider the. matter presented by these pe titiors, we think proper to state our settled opinion of the course
which is prescribed by the law for this Court to take, after its final
action upon a case brought within its appellate jurisdiction; as well
as that which the court, whose final decree or judgment has been thus:
verified, ought to take.
Appellate power is exercised over, the proceedings of inferior
courts, not on those of the appellate court. The Supreme Court
have no power to review their decisions, whether in a case at law or
in equity. A final decree in chancery is as conclusive as a judgment
at law.

1 Wheat. 355; 6 Wheat. 113, 116. Both are conclusive on

the rights of the parties thereby adjudicated.
No principle is better settled, or of more universal application,
than that no court can reverse or annul its own final decrees or judgments, for errors of fact or law, after the term in which they have
been rendered, unless for clerical mistakes; 3 Wheat. 591; 3 Peters,
431: or to reinstate a cause dismissed by miptake, 12 Wheat. 10:
from whibh it follows, that no change or modification can be made,
which may substantially vary or affect it in any material thing.
Bills of review, in cases in equity, and writs of error, coram vobis, at
,law; are exceptions which cannot affect the present motion.
When the Supreme Court have executed their power in a cause
before them, and their final decree or judgment requires some further act to be done, it cannot issue an execution, but shall send a
special mandate to the court, below to award it. 24 sect. Judiciary
Act, 1 Story's Laws, 61. Whatever was- before the Court, and is
disposed of, is considered as finally settled. The inferior court is
bound by the decree as the law of the case; and must carry it into
execution, according to the mandate. They cannot vary it, or examine it for any other purpose than execution; or give any other or
further relief; or review it upon any matter decided on appeal for
error apparent; or intermeddle with it, further than to settle so much
ois has been remanded. 1 S. C. 194, 197; 1 H. & M. 557; 3 Menif.
228. After a mandate, no rehearing will be granted. It is never
done in the House of Lords; ,3 Dow. P.C. 157: and on a subsequent
appeal, nothing is brought up, but the pr6ceeding subsequent to the
mandate. 5 Cranch, 316; 7 Wheat. 58, 59; 10 Wheat. 443.
If the special mandate directed by the 24th section, is not obeyed

JANUARY TERM, 1838,
[Ex parte Sibbald v. The United States.]

or executed, then the general power given to "all the courts of the
United States to issue any writs which are necessary for thp, exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the principles
and usages of law;" by the 14th section of the judiciary-act; fairly
arises, and a mandamus, or other appropriate writ will go. 1
Story, 5 .
In the original cause, the now petitioner claimed sixteen thousand
acres of land, which had been surveyed in three tracts of ten, four,
and two thousand acres. The court below confirmed his title to
the tract of ten thousand acres, surveyed at the place called for in
the grant; but rejected his claim to the two others, surveyed elsewhere, by their final decree, which concluded thus: "And it is further ordered, adjudged and decreed, that the said claimant have
leave to survey the whole number of acres called for in his grant, at
the place designated in the same; provided vacant lands of sufficient
extent may be obtained at that place."
The effect of this decree was to confirm the title to the whole
quantity of sixteen thousand acres called for in the grant, if so much
could be found vacant at the place called for; but to prohibit the survey of the deficiency at any other than the place designated; whereby
the claim was reduced to ten thousand acres.
On an appeal to this Court, the petitioner's claim was confirmed
to its full extent of sixteen thousand acres, according to the three
separate surveys in the record; the decree below was affirmed as
to the ten thousand, and reversed as to the two other surveys of four
and two thousand acres respectively; and a mandate ordered accordingly.
In order to ascertain the true intention of the decree of confirmation, and consequently of the mandate, and its effect; that part of the
decree below which was affirmed, must be taken in connection with
the petitipner's title, and the construction of it by this Court. Both
courts confirmed the title to the whole quantity claimed: the difference between them was as to the two small surveys, which the court
below rejected on their construction of the grant: being of opinion,
that by its terms, the whole quantity must be surveyed in one place.
This Court, construing the grant differently, held, that by its terms,
it authorized surveys at places other than the one described; and that
after surveying all that was vacant there, the quantity found deficient might be surveyed where the grantee designated. This was
done, as appeared by the evidence; surveys were made by the proper

SUPREME COURT
[Ex parte Sibbald v. The United States.]

officers, and without objections by the Spanish governor, These
were the surveys confirmed by this Court, at the place referred to
in the plots in the record. Vide 10 Peters, 323, 324. There ian,
therefore, be no difficulty in understanding the mandate in this respect. It gives to the surveys of four and two thousand acres, the
same validity as if they had been made for the land specified in the
grant; as the "equivalent" of what could not be found vacant at the
place called for in the grant. In the decree of the court below, the
proviso, itVacant lands, of sufficient extent can be obtained at that
place;, must be referred to the decree :of this Court affirming that
part of the decree, in conformity with the opinion, as to the "equivalent," for such portion of the whole quantity as was hot open to
appropriation when-the ten thousand acres were surveyed.
To make up such "equivalent," consistently with the declared
opinion of the Court, the party must have the right of filling up his
claim in some mode, or he will obtain a less quantity than has been
,confirmed to him by our final decree; which the law declares shall
be" final and conclusive between the parties, who were the-United
States and the petitioner. 3 Story L. 1961. The latter must, therefore, have his sixteen thousand acres somewhere.
By the eleventh section of the act'of 1824, pi'ovision is made for
the ease; in enacting, "That if in any case it should so happen,
that the lands, tenements or hereditaments, decreed to any claimant
under the provisions of this act, shall have been sold by the United
States, or otherwise disposed of; or if the same shall not have been
heretofore located; in each and every such case the party may enter
the like quantity," &c. &c. 3 Story, 1963. 'This section applies
to each of the three surveys, provided that either comes within its
prbvisions, by its appearing that any part thereof cannot be obtained
pursuant to our decree.
By the sixth section of the same act, the duties to be performed
after a final decision in favour of the claimant, are' prescribed; the
clerk of this Court is to give a copy of the decree under the seal of
the Court to the party, who shall deliver it tW the surveyor of the
state or territory, who shall cause the land to be surveyed, and a
plot. thereof to be made out and returned to the land office; wjhich
shall entitle the party to a patent. %Story, 1962. This section applies to confirmations, where there is no interfering claim, so'that
nothing remains to be done by the court below; but when the case
comes under the eleventh section, then the surveyor, and the court

JANUARY 'TERM, 1838.
[Ex parte Sibbald v; The' United States.]

belbw must both act: the one to ascertain what portion of either of
the confirmed survey comes within its provisions; and the other to
decide on the return of the surveyor, how much land, if any, is to
be entered at the proper land office. In such cases, the court below
acts under our mandate to execute our decree on those matters
which remained for their future action; which is to be done ifi the
same manner, por tanto, as when -the whole case was originally before it, in the first instance; according to the provisions of the first
section of the act, with this exception; that they cannot act on any
question of. the title of the party to the, full quantity confirmed, 6r
decide against the validity of the surveys which have been confirmed
by this Court., So far as our final decree goes, it must be taken to
be conclusive.
On receiving the mandate, the court below must "deterline all
questions arising (in its execution) in relation to the extent, locality,
and boundaries of the said claim, or other matters connected therewith, fit'and proper to be heard and determined;- and 'may,at discretiop, order disputed facts to be found by a jury; and otherwise
proceed as directed in. that section." 3 Story, 1961. By this reference, to the law the meaning of the mandate of this Court directed
to the surveyor, commanding him to do and perform the acts enjoined on him by law; and to the court below, "to cause further to
be done therein, what of right, according o :law and justice, in conformity to the opinion and decree of this Court, ought to be done;"
[is evident.]
In Mitchell v. The United States, where the Court apprehended
that some difficulty might occur, a special mandate was made out
on great deliberation. 9 Peters, 761-2. In the United States v.
Soulard, one was made to meet the case, 10 Peters, 105-6: and had
it appeared from the record, in the case between the United States
and the petitioner, that a mandate more special than the one, made
out would have been necessary, it would have been done. The one
ordered is, in substance, the same as those; and with the references
now made, will meet the prayer of the petition, which we feel bound
to grant, for the reasons set forth. The mandate which is annexed
to the petition, was issued by the clerk, directed only to the court
below, and no direction is given to the surveyor; it is therefore no
execution of our final decree: and as it thus remains unexecuted. it
is not too late to have it done, and requires no new order or decree,

496

SUPREME COURT.

LEX parte Sibbald v. The United Sthtes.j
in any way modifying that which has been rendered in the-reported
case.
It is theretore ordered, that the clerk -)f this Court make out a
certificate of the final decree heretofore rendered in the case of the
United States v. Sibbald; and also a mandate according to: such final
decree, the opinion of the Court in that case, and on these petitions.

OA consideration of the motion made.in this cause by Mr. Clarke,
of counsel for the appellant, on- a prio day of the present term of
this Court, to wit, on Saturday, the 10th day of February,,A. D.
1838, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon had, it is now here
considered, ordered and adjudged'by this Court, that the clerk of
this Court make out a certificate of the final decree heretofore ren
dered -in the case of the United States v. Sibbald; and also a mandate according to such final decree, the opinion of the Court in that
case, .and on this petition.

