204

SUPREME COURT.

JAMES GALOWAY, JUNIOR, APPELLANT V. HENRY

R.

FINLEY AND

DAVID BARR, APPELLEES.
C. B., a man resident in Ohio, as an officer in the Virginia line, during the revolutionary war, was entitled to ajquantity of military land in the state of Ohio.. Warrants for the land were issued to him, and were 'surveyed, located, arid. patented.
In 18,5, the heirs of C. B. sold part of these lands to G., who went into possession
of them. He soon afterwards discovered that the. patent for these lands issued
afer the decease of C. B., and was consequently void. the land had been recogjimsed .for forty years, asrthe property of C. B. and -his heirs, and the title in them
deemed valid. G., on makinga discovery of the defects in the patent, entered
and located the land for himself. Held, that G. could not be permitted to avail
himself of this defect in the title, while standing in the relation of a putchaser,
to defeat the agreement to purchase, made -with the heirs of C. B. Under the
most favourable ciTcumstances, he could only have it reformed; and the amount
advanced to perfect the title, dedubted' from the unpaid purchase money. Where
the purchaser, instead of claiming from his vendors the cost of entering and surveying the lands, the defect in the title to which had become known to him
through h's purch"6, claims to hold the land as his own, under the title acquired
by his entry and survey; and asks a court of equity to rescind the contract of purchase; a court of equity will oech,,e giving,him its aid to obtain the expenses of
the warrants and surveys taken out by him tor the land, and set -up against the
rights of his vendors.
It is An established rule in equity, thit when the vendor of land has not the power
to.miake atitle, the vendee may, before the time of performance, enjoin the payment of the purchase money, until'the ability to comply with the agreement is
shown; but then the court will give a reasonable time to procure the title, ifAt
appears probable that it may be protcured.
In reforming a contract for the sale of lands, equity treats the purchaser as a trustee
.for the vendor, because he holds fnder the vendor; and acts done to benefit the
title by the Vendor, when in possession of the lands, enure to the benefit of him
under whom the possession was obtained, and through whom the knowledge that
a defect in the title existed.was "derived. The vendor and vendee shared in the
relation of landlord and tenant; the vendee cannot disavow the vendor's title.
A patent for hJnds'issued after the decease of the patentee, passes no title to the
lands; there must be a grantee before thle grant can take effect.
The acts of congress of 1807, and the subsequent acts relative to the titles to military lands, were intended to remedy,'ny defects in the patenting the lands in the,
name of the warrantee, who might have been deceased at the .timq of the emanation"of the patent; and to secu re the title to the lands to the heirs of the patentee.
The statute is general, including by name ill grants, not distinguishing between
void and valid; and the plainest rules of propriety and justice, require, that the
courts'should not introduce an exception, the legislature having made none.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States, for the western district of PennsylVania, in the third circuit.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

265

[Gall6way v.'Finley et al.]The appellant filed his bill on the 19th of October, 1835, stating,
that on the 11th of March,; 1835, he entered into an article of agreement with David Barr' acting -as attorney for his wife, Elizabeth
Julia -Ann, who thereby became a party to the same. The agreemerit stated that Charles Bradford, late of Pennsylvania, obtained
for his services as an officer-in the Virginia continental line, a land
warrant, N'o 4467, for 2666 acres of land, which was entered, surveyed, and patented in three surveys in the Virginia military district, in Green and Brown counties, in the state of Ohio. That
Charles Bradford died intestate, leaving four children, two of whom
died without issue, and intestate, leaving Henry R. Finley, and
Elizabeth Julia Ann, his onily surviving heirs. 'Elizabeth Julia Ann
married John Finley, and died, leaVing two children, Henry, and
Elizabeth Julia Ann, who are the only hirs of their mother,- and
are entitled to one undivided half of the' said military land. That
Henry R. Finley, and Elizabeth -Julia Ann, the wife of David
Barr, sold to the complainant an undivided moiety of the two surveys in Green county,.in consideration of an agreement to pay eight
thousand dollars; of Which one thousand dollars was paid, and n'otes
given to Henry R. Finley, -and to the wife of David Barr, for the
residue due,-payable in equal instalments, in one, two, and-three years;
viz., on the first of January, 1837, 1838, 1839. The defendants, and
the wife of Barr, dovenanted that they were the persons they represented themkelves to be, and that they were seised and- possessed
of a good legal title to the lands they sold to the complainant; and
bound themselves, their heirs,, &c., to make him,his heir , &c., a
g6od. title in fee simple, as soon as he should pay the purchase money.
That defendants asserted they had in possession the evidences of the
title of defendant, Finley, and the wife'of Barr, to the tla; and that
a -letter of 'attorney had been executed and acknowledged by. Barr's
•wife to himself, authorizing him to sell and convey her title in the
land; that they had then just discovered that they had not brought
these papers with them, and to induce appellant to lose the contract,
promised to send him the papers as soon as they should return
home: confiding in the existence of the papers; and the promise to
forward them to him, he concluded the agreement. The complainant says he paid down -the one thousand dollars, and one hundred
and four dollars; the latter credited on the last note. That since the
date of the contract, Barr's wife has died. intestate, and without issue, being a minor at her death. That defendants have not pro.
VOL. XIL.-2 L

'SUPREME COURT
[qalloway v. Finley et al.]

duced their title papers, nor letter of attorney. That defendants
cannot perform their contract, nor make a good title to the land., because Charles Bradford died in 1789; and the'lands were entered in
his name, on the 19th of April, i793; and the tract of one thousand
acres was surveyed the 14th of February, 1794: and the survey of
the tract of twelve hundred acres, was made the 24th of March,
1794: the entries and surveys being made about four years after
his death.
The complainant, averring his readiness to perform, prays that the
article of agreement may be deemed annulled and cancelled; that the
money be refunded, with inthrest, and the notes enjoined, and the
collection restrained; and for general relief.
The defendants, Finley and Barr, on the 19th of January, 1830,
answered jointly, admitting the contract as stated in the bill, and that
H. R. Finley, and Elizabeth Julia Ann Barr, wife ofLDvid Barr, were
the'children, and sole heirs of Elizabeth Julia Ann Finley, daughter
of Charles Bradford, and entitled, as such, to a moiety of the lands
inquestion; and that they told the appellant they had, in Pennsylvania, eviddnce tliat defendant, Finley, and the wife- of defendant,
Barr, were the heirs of Elizabeth Julia Ann Finley; all which they
assert to be true, and can prove. The defendants deny that they represented they had in possession any title papers, or any evidence
except that which would prove the heirship of defendants, Finley,
and the wife of Barr. On the contrary, they told the 'complainant
they lad no title papers, and that they had'only recently been in-,
formed of the existence of the land; and that the defendant, Finley,
and the wife of Barr, had any title thereto. The complainant told
defendants he had loAg known that the heirs of Elizabeth Julia Ann
Finley were entitled to one undivided half of said lands; that lie had
a record of their names; had made inquiries for them: that. he had
beeni anxious to buy the interest of. defendant, Finley, in the lands;
as he, the complainant, had sold the said lands, and bound himself to
give good titles, and he feared some other person would purchase
the interest of the defendant, Finiey, and his sister, and give him
trouble., The complainant stated at the time, that he knew all about
the title; and that if defendant, Finley, and his sister, Elizabeth Julia
Ann Barr, were the children of Mrs. Finley, he was satisfied as to
their right to the lands. Defendants admit that they agreed to forward to appellant evidence that defendant, Finley, and his sister,
were children of Mrs. Finley, and meant to do so; but the death of

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Galloway v. Finley et al.]

Mrs. Barr, caused it to be neglected. The defendant, Finley, denies
representing to appellant that Mrs, Barr haa, executed a letter of attorney to her husband, and that defendants had only-then discovered
that it had been left behind: he admi-s that he might have tojd appellant that Mrs. Barr was willing that her husband should sell her
interest. The defendant, Barr, admits he represented that his wife
was willing he should sell her interest; and that a letter of attorney
had been prepared to that effect, and left behind; but he denies r~colleetion of saying it had been executed and acknowledged, and that
he supposed he had the same with him, and had then only discovered
be had left it behind. He admits he promised to forward the power,
but the death of hiswife prevented this being done.
The defendants deny intention or attempt to induce appellant to
enter into contract, and, pay his money thereon, by fraudulent representations. They admit th payment of one thousand dollars, and
one hundred and four dollars, as stated'in the bill; and that Mrs. Barr
died a minor, without issue and intestate; but aver that her death did
not affect their right to comply with the contract, as the interest of
Mrs. Barr vested at her death in defendant, Finley; who has been,
and is willing to fulfil it They deny all fraud and combination, and
aver and will prove, that they made the contract in perfect good
-faith, believing that defendant, Finley, and Mrs. Barr had a legal
iight to a moiety of the land: the knowledge of their right chiefly
came from appellant. But they deny that at the time of making the
contract, they had any knowledge of the date of the entry or survey,
.or of the date of C. Bradford's death: they allege, the, first intimation
they had that the land was entered and surveyed after his death, was
derived from the bill. They admit, from information, &c.since the
bill was filed, that'they believe the said lands were entered and surveyed at the times mentioned in the bill, and since the death of Bradford; who died about the time mentioned in the bill. The defendant,
Finley, avers, that as soon as he was apprized of the facts mentioned
in the bill, as to the date of entry and survey, he made inquiries as
to the facts, and being satisfied that they were true as alleged in the
bill, he proceeded without delay to the surveyor's office in Chillicothe, to get information to take steps to procure an entry" of said
lands, that he might fulfil said contract; which he is ready and anxious to comply with. But he was surprised when he ascertained that
the appellant, a few days before, on the 26th September, 1835, fraudulently, and as defendant alleges, for the purpose of putting it out of

SUPREME COURT.
[Galloway v. Finley et al.J

the power of defendants to domply' with theircontract, and to defraud the defendant, Finley, out of his land's, had entered the same
lands under surveys No. 2277 and No. 227b, mentioned in'the
agreement; as certified copies of the entries made by appellant, and
made part of the answer, will prove.
The defendants aver, that the complainant, having made these
entries to further his designs, immediately filed this bill without intimating objections to their title; although defendant, Finley, had met
and conversed with him at Pittsburgh, after the entries -were made,
and before the bill was filed. The defendants allege, and will prove
that the lands were duly entered, surveyed, and patented in the name
of Charles Bradford, by virtue of which the defendant, Finley, and
his said sister, at the date of contract were, as the heirs of Mrs. Finley,
deceased, daughter of Charles Bradford, deceased, entitled equitably
and justly to the undivided half of said lands, and had good right to
sell. and convey. By the death of Mrs. Barr, a minor, without issue,
her-right vested in.the defendant, Finley, as sole surviving heir of
Mrs.-Finley; and being so entitled, he avers his power, readiness, and
willingness to make a perfect title to the appellant for an undivided
moiety of the lands, on the fulfilment of the contract by him. The
,defendants aver that any title which the appellant may have acquired
by his entry of September 216th, i835, shall be taken" to enure to the
benefit of them, for whom he holds the'lands in trust for fulfilment
of the agreement; and they.pray that the bill may be dismissed, &c.
In February13th, 1837, the appellant filed his amended bill, stating
that besides the money he had paid defendants on account of the contract, he released to them hig interest.to an undivided half of survey
No. 4456 for 4661 acres, for the consideration of I ve hundred dol:lars. That when he made the contract with the defendants, he believed that they had a perfect title to the lands they sold him ; was
ignorant that the entries, &e. had been made in the name of _man
not in being; and that it was not for a considerable time afterwards
he came to a knowledge that the land was vacant, and that the defendants had no power to make him a title, and that the lands were
subject to entryby a holder of a Virginia militarywarrant. He had
previously purchased an undivi ed half of the same lands, and paid
i large consideration. Deeming it right to protect his interest in
premises, on the 26th September, 1835, he caused entries No. 13,696
for i208 acres, and No. 13,697 for 1000 acres, to be ma e; and on
the same day causea surveyh to be lade and returned, which were

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Galloway v. Finley et al.]

recorded 28th September, 1835. He refers to attested copies filed
with the answer. The appellant charges the fact, that the lands being
wholly vacant and unappropriated, he has invested hijmself with the
best tltle to the same.
He prays that the defendants may answer, and also as in his origi.nal bill: or if it shall'be found that defendants, or either of them, had
a good title to the land, and still have a right, to the same, and have
authority to make a valid conveyance, then the appellant is ready,
and tenders the full and- perfect completion of the contract on his
part. And he prays for general relief.
A separate answer was made to the amended bill by David Barr;
and filed Febrdary 25th, 1837.
He admits the deed of release of the appellant's interest in survey
No. 4456, qnd that the consideration named -inthe deed was five
hundred dollars; but denies that that sum was the true consideration,
averring that one hundred and four dollars and thirteen cents, credit'ed on one of the notes as mentioned in the original bill, was the true
consideration. The defendant avers, that at the time of making the
contract, both defendants denied Galloway's claim to this survey, andset up the entire right to the same to be in Finley and his sister, then
living; and that it was not considered nor formed any part of the
contract; but after the contract was executed, Galloway urged aclaim,
at least for the taxes he had paid on the survey. This defendant
agreed, in consideration of the release, to refund ihe taxes paid by ere.diting the amount on the note, The sum of five hundred dollars was
inserted at the instance of Galloway, t0 induce his wife, as he said, to
sign the deed. The defendant, Finley, had nothing to do with this
transaction. As to appellant's belief that Finley and his sister had a
good title, the defendant says that the complainant represented to
them'that he knew all about their title. The defendadft supposes that
the appellant became acquainted with the facts that the entries and
surveys had been made in the, name of a dead man, after the date of
the will of Bradford had* been communicated to him. He cannot admit, that the appellant has l4y the entries, &c. in his own name, invested himself with the best and only title to the lands. The defendant
d.-iies that the lands were vacant and unappropriated at the time apt
pbllant entered them; but they had before been appropriated under
warrants of Bradford, under whose. entry, &c. Finley and his sister
had'acquired a good title, and had good right to sell and convey the
same. He prays that the bill may be dismissed.

SUPREME COURT.
[Galloway v. Finley et a].]

The cause was tried on the 26th of May, 1837; and the court
decreed that the bill of the complainant should be dismissed.
The complainant prosecuted an appeal to this Court.
The case was" submitted to the Court on printed arguments, by
Mr. Corwin and Mr. Mason for the appellint; and by Mr. Fetterman for the defendants.
For the appellant the following points were made:
1. Galloway was not obliged by any 'principle of law or equity,
to put the defendants in a situation to comply with their contract.
Therefore he was not bound to assist them in procuring a title where
none existed before.
2. Nor could mere silence and non-interference be imputed to him
as a delinquency, for which his rights under the contract might be
injuriously affected.
3. But Galloway did interfere. For when he discovered that the
defendants had no title whatever to the land they had sold him, and
that it was vacant, and might be appropriated, at any-moment, by
the first warrant holder who should come to the knowledge of that
fact; he entered it in his own name.
.4, Was this act on the part of Galloway an interference inconsistent with any duty imposed on him by the relation of vendor and
purchaser then existing between himself and defendants? Was it a
breach of good faith towards them, that ought, on admitted principles, to deprive-him of the aid of a court of equity?
5. It appears from the pleadings, that Galloway had purchased,
prior to the date of his contract with the defendants, an undivided
moiety of the land in controversy, which he had afterwards sold and
bound himself to convey by a good title; that he was urgent in his
solicitations to purchase the interest of the defendants, from an apprehension as he said of having trouble, should they sell to any other
person. Hence, it is maintained, that complainant had, as he asserts
in his amended bill, a -" right to protect his own interest in the premises," by making the entries he did the 26th of September, 1835.
6. Galloway had no authority to re-locate the warrantof Bradford,
either in hi own name, or in that of the heirs oT Bradford.
But i-f he had such authority he was not bound to exercise it, and
could not have done so without first returning to the general land

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
. [Galloway v. Finley et al.]

office the patent for cancellation; and then of inpurring the risk of
acquiring a doubtful title.
7. He could nbt have delayed to make the entries at the time he
did, without the hazard of losing the whole land; which he had
already twice purchased.
8. It was certainly lawful for Galloway to secure, in the mode he
has attempted to do, the undivided-half of these lands which he had
long before purchased and conveyed away. To accomplish this onject he was compelled to enter the whole, inasmuch as he could not
enter an undivided part of the land,
9. Ought the acts of Galloway, in appropriating these tracts of land
to himself, to enure to the benefit of the defendants? The parties
were not tenants in common; because the entire interest, if any thing,
was vested in Galloway. But neither party had any interest legal
or equitable; and there can be no tenancy in common of a mere,
nonentity.
10. Unless Galloway was somehow disabled from doing what was
lawful for all the world besides, he has undoubtedly acquired an
equitable title to at least one undivided half of the lands. And as to
the other moiety, he has an equity that ought to be protected; as the
defendants, having no title themselves, can lose nothing by the acts
of Galloway, unless it'should be a chance or Mtere possibility.
11. In determining upon questions of title, mere possibilities are not
regarded; the court must govern itself by moral certainty. When A
considerable or rational doubt exists, notwithstanding the better
opinion, in the judgment of the court is that a good title can be
made; a court of equity will not compel a purchaser to take the title.
2 Hoven. on Frauds, 24, 25, and cases there cited.
i2. Where the vendor has in reality no interest in the subject of
the sale though he believed he had, the contract will be set aside.'
2 Hoven. on Frauds, 13.

13. A decree may be obtaincd oy a vendee to have a purchase contract delivered up, on the ground of the defective title of the vendor.
2 Hoven. on Frauds, 24.
i4. It is very properly admitted in fhe argument on the other
side, as the law undoubtedly is, that entries made in the name of
dead men, are null and void. But it is insisted, at the same time,
that such entries are protected by the proviso to the act of the 2d of
March, 1807, as against all entries made subsequent to the passage

SUPREME COURT.
[Gallowa v. Finley et al.)

of that, act,
authority.

The contrary can- be maintained( both by reason and

Mi. Corwin and Mr. Mason for the appellant.
The complainant has sought the aid of the Court in this case, to
rescind a contract, for the sale of real estate. The facts necessary to
be considered are few, and in general admitted by the pleadings'of
the parties. The complainant alleges that he puichased of defendants the undivided moiety of 2200 acres of land lying in the Virginia
military reservation, in Ohio; for which he was to pay, about eight
thousand dollars, in payments, the last of which would become due
in'
1839. That-he paid one thousand dollars'at the, time of completing the, purchase, on the 11th of March, 1835. That he'also- advanced at that time, the -further sum of one hundred and four dollars,
to enable the defendants to pay taxes due from them on other lands
in Ohio. These facts are admitted by the answers of the defendants.
It is alleged by complainant, and admitted inthe answers, and by
the printed argument of d6fendants' counsel, that' complainant had,
previously ta-the date of his contract with dqfendants purchased of
one Finley Bradford, a co-heir with the defendants, the other moiety
of the same land now in controversy. It isalleged by complainant
and not denied by the defendants, that a controlling motive for entering into the contract of purchase with the defendants, arose out of the
fact of his having sold parts of the land purchased of Finley Bradford, and bound himself to make titles under such sales to the purchasers. The complainant insists that at the time he purchased
(March, 1835,) neither defendants of whom he purchased the last,
nor Finley Bradford, their co-heir, of whom he purchased the first
half of the 2200 acres of land, had any title thereto either in lhw or
equity. That-the land has been since appropriated by a valid entry
and survey made in September, 1835, in, another and better right;
and thus he fairly comes before the court to ask a decree for the
rescission of the contract; on the ground of a failure, or total want of
consideration moving *fromthe defendants to him.
Upon this state of facts, two general propositions are to be established:
1. That defendants had no title either in law or equity to- the land
sold by them to the complainant.,
2. That the land had been fairly appropriated'by anotbei, under

JANUARY TERM, 188,

273

jGalloway v. Finley et alI,

valid entry and surveys,. go that defendants never can mnake a title
for"it.

The facts necessary to be known,.in order to test the validityof
the'title under which the defendants claim, are all undigputed in the,
pleadings. The history of titles, in what is properly calledthe Virginia military district in the state of Ohio, is too well understood by
the Court to justify its recital here. The territory, between the Little Miami- and Scioto rivers,.in Ohio, was set apart by: the state of
Virginia, to satisfy military bounties-granted by her for services rendered in the revolutionary war. By .the terms of cession of the territory north-west of the river Ohio, when the warrants for. these
bounties should be satisfied, the remainder of the territory, (if any,)
between the two rivers just mentioned, belonged to the United States;
and became A part of the natibnal domain., Charles Bradford, under
Whom defendants claim, it is admitted on all hands, held a warrant
whioh authorized him to appropriate two thousand tw6.hundred acres
of land, in this territory. And the question arises, whether any land
whatever has been appropriated by virtue of this warrant.
It is admitted that Charles Bradford, the owner of this warrant,
died'in Washington county, in the state of Pennsylvania,.in the year
1789. The entries ofthe land, by.virtue of-he warrant in question,
-were made in the name of Charles Bradjbrd,in 1793, and the surveys were executed in his name in 1794. It is also admitted, that a
patent has issued in his name; but when, is not shown by'the record.
Thus, it is shown; that the entries were made and the surveys exe-Puted four years after the death of the proprietor of the warrant, and
in his name. Did these proceedings attach to tne specific property
now in controversy, any right in favour of defendants, which is ivalid
either in law or equity? We do not feel ourselves at liberty to consider the proposition thus stated, as one open for discussion before
this Court. It is only necessary to say here, that we consider it in
all respects, as perfectly-identical with the principle fully discussed
and settled by this Court, in the' ease of Galt 'nd-others v. Galloway,
4 Peters, 332; and MfDonald v. Smalley ad others, 6 Peters, 26,1.
It will be borne in mind by the Court, that although the property
in question is situated within the limits and territorial jurisdictioil of
Ohio, and would, therefor'e, be subject, in the hands of .ndividuals, to
the legislation of that state, in all things affecting its transfer by deed
or devise; yet as,a part of the piublic domain, the mode of acquiring
right to it, and separating it from the mass of'public lands, is to bLJ
Voe.. XII.-,,2 M

SUPREME COURT.
[Galloway v. Finley et al.]

prescribed by the laws of Virginia; and such regulations as the United
States' government have, from time to time, since the cession of Virginia, thought proper to make concerning it.
If, however, the Court should suppose -that the question of law under consideration, could in any degree be affectedby the "lex loci rei
site," it will be found, that the highest judicial tribunal of Ohio has,
settled this question, in exact conformity to the law as laid down by
this Court. In the case of. Wallace's Lessee v. Saunders, 7 Ohio R.
179, the court, without a dissenting opinion from either of its four
judges, declare, that an entry of Virginia military lands in Ohio,
made in the nime of an individual, not living at the time, is not
merely defective, but that it is, as this Court have said, a mere nullity; that it leaves the land open to be taken up by any one holding a
warraht, as though no attempt at appropriation had ever been made.
It is proper hereto consider whether Bradford's entry, being void,
as has been shown, is made valid by the act of congress, of the 2d of
March, 1807, which has been continued in force, by various reenactments, up to the 31st of March, 1832: which last is still in
force.
The proviso in all these acts, which is supposed by defendants'
counsel to protect the entry of Bradford, under'which they-claim, is
in these words: "Provided that no locations as aforesaid; within the
abovementioned tracts, shall, after the passage of this act, be made
on tracts of land for which patents have been previously issued, or
which had been previously surveyed; and every patent whicdb may,
nevertheless, be obtained for land located contrary to the provisions
of this section, shall be considered as~null and void." See 7th Vol. U.
S. Laws, 516; U. S. Laws, 8th vol. 531.
It is conceded by the defendants' counsel, that the proviso in question was intended to protect from interference "defective entries and
patents; and that this has been the uniform construction placed
upon it by the courts of the countr . We agree with this exposition
of the law, and adr.it that if the entry and survey of Bradford were
merely defective and not void, that they are protected by the act of
congress, and the subsequent entry of Galloway is void. The case
of Doddridge v. Thompson, 9 Wheat. 481, is an authority to show
that the act in question was passed, as the Court there say, "to cure
defects" in titles alreadyacquired.
This Court has determined, that the proviso in the act of 1807
does not prote6t a survey against locations, where the entry on which

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Galloway v. Finley et al.l

275

such survey was made had been withdrawn. Taylor's Lessee v.
Myers, 7 Wheat. 23. In the case of Lindsey v. Miller, 6 Peters,
666, the Court declare that void enlries and void surveys are not protected by the proviso in question. In commenting on the case of
Jackson v. Clark and others, repprted in 1st Peters, 628, the Court
say, that they "gave effict to the act of congress in that case," because the survey was not void, but merely defective. 6 Peters, 677.
If entries and surveys made in the name of dead men are voidare mere nullities, and leave the land upon which they are made
open to subsequent location, as this- Court has decided, in the case
cited from 4 Peters, 332, and 6 Peters, 261; and as has been also
decided in Ohio Rep. 7th vol. page 173, then it follows, that the act
of congress relied upon by defendants, cannot protect the land in
question, from the entry of Galloway made in September, 1835. We
refer the Court here to the case in Ohio Rep, 7th vol. page 173, as
an express authority upon this very point. The effect of the proviso,
in the act of 1807, upon an entry in the name of one not in life at
the time, is there considered, discussed and decided by the court.
We consider that as settling th6 law of this case, so far as the proposition now under discussion affects it.
Having arrived, we hope satisfactorily, at the conclusion that Bradford's entry, being originally a nullity, left the land 'in question a part
of the Virginia reservation, open to. any holder of a warrant to locate;, we come to consider whether it has been appropriated by-another, in such manner as to withdraw it forever from the power of thedefendants.
The entries and surveys of Galloway are set forth in the record,
andadmitted to be made on proper war~nts, and by competent authority. Thus far it seems quite impossible to resist the conclusion,
that the land in question was vacant land, up to September, 1835;,
and if Galloway's entry is good for the purpose of appropriation at
all, it remains to inquire-whether such entry shall enure to his own,
or another's benefit.
It is insisted by defendants' counsel, that the relation of vendor
and vendee, which subsisted between comlilainant and defendants,
created a trust which obliged Galloway, as trustee for defendants, to
-u.se the original warrant of defendants' ancestor, which by his death
desceded to his heirs, for the purpose of appropriating the two surveys in question. It will be admitted, we are sure, that on this
branch of the cane, it is incumbent on the defendants to show:

SUPREME COURT.
[Galloway v. Finley et al.]

Ist. That the contract between them and complainant, by necessary
implication, devolved this duty on the latter.
2d. That in September, 1835, When it-was discov-ered by both
parties that the land in question was vacant; it was. elearly in the
powerof Galloway to make at that time a valid legal entry, by virtue
of the original warrant of Charles Bradford,. deceased.
If either of these positions are dodbtful, or clearly ascertained
against the defendants, then the Court 4re left no alternative but to
give full effect to Galloway's entry made in September, 1835- for his
benefit.
On the first proposition, it becomes necessary to inquire, to what
extent the vendee of real estate may be said to stand in the relation
of trustee to his vendor.. The rule we conceive to be laid down very
accuratelyin %Sugden'sVendors, page 162. It is there stated, that
"equity considers the vendor.-as a trustee for the purchaser of the
estate-sold, and the purchaser as a trustee of the purchase money for
The same principle is. in substance determined in
the vendor."
Greer v. Smith, 'I Atkyns, 572, and in Pollifexen v. Moore, 3d
Atkyns, 272. Thus it appears, that the mutual trusts imposed'on
vendor and vendee of real estate' by courts of equity, are nothing
more than the'duty of performirig, in good.faith, the stipulations of
their agreement. The vendor is charged.with the duty of conveying,
as he has agreed to do, the estate; and the vendee is, in equity, held
bound to pay the purchase money, As he has agreed to do. Hence it
follows, that complainant-was' not bound by any principle of"equity
to put the defendants in a situation to comply with their contract;
money or services, to
he was noi surely bound to assist them with'
enable them to make a title to the land they had. sold; he was not.
bound to. inform them that the land was vacant, because the entry on
their warrant, made in the name of, and after the death of Charles
Bradford, was void. It cannot be pretended, that silence or inaction
on his part, would deprive him of the aid of this Court, on the pre-.
tence that because he had said, or'done nothing, he had therefore
acted in bad faith towards the defendants. On the contrary, the law
is, that the vendors (the defendants in this case) were bound to the
complainant for the knowledge in tbrec-elves, of all-these things.
They expressly covenant "that they are scised and possessed of a
,good and sufficient title to the priemses hereby stated to be sold by
them to the said James Galloway, jr."
They took upon themselves to know; that they had: the title ahA

JAN4UARY TERM,

838.

277

[Galloway v. Finley et al-j

right io the thing sold, and in addition to the legal obligation to that
effect, they givq an express covenant to the complainant on that
subject. That the law'obliged them to know their right, or forfeit
their contract, we refer the Court t6 the case of Allen v. Hammond,
11 Peters, c)3; and Hitchcock v. Giddings; Daniel's Exchequer Rep.
1, there referred to, and, approved by this Court. In the case just
cited, on page 72,. Mr. Justice M'Lean, in delivering the opinion of
the Court, says.,." The-law on this subject is clearly stated in~the case
of Hitchcock v.'Giddings1, Daniel's Rep.. 1; where it is- said, 'that- a
vendor is bound to know, that he. actually has that. Which he professes to sell, and even, though the subject matter of the contract be
known -to both parties to be liable to a contingency which may destroy it immediately, yet, if the contingency has already hippened,
the contract-is void.' " The same principle is. in substance to be
found in'2 -Hovenden on Frauds 13.
Let us apply the principle of the cases just referred to, to the present. The defendants were bound to kn.ow that they had "a good
legal fitle" to the land sold; they covenanted with complainAnt in
March, 1835, to that effect, and.in those words: they received from
the complainant 'ne thousand one hundred -and -four dollars on this
contract. Seven months aftei this, (in September, 1835,) the complainiant learns, that defendants had no title whatever to the land thus
sold, and the defendants adnit that they had none at that time: was
not this coniract void in law,'and would it not have been so adjudged
had the -case been then presented? If so, had not Galloway.a right
to treat it as the, law treats it, as void, and act accordingly. In the
.case of Allen v. Hammond, the Court say: "if the subject matter
of the contract be known to both parties as liable to a contingency
Which may destroy it immediately' yet if the contingency has already'
happened, the contract is void." Here'the fact, perhaps unknown
to both parties, that is, the death of Charles Bradford before the
entry, was what destroyed the right to the land sold; it had happened,
and therefore the contract was void the moment it was eoecuted.
Galloway being thus, in September, 1835, divested in law of all
obligation to defendants under, this contract, and the land in question
being vacant, he has in good faith made it his own by entering it on
his own warrant; or, in other words, he has purchased it of the owner,
and the only owner, with his own funds. He has left the warrant in
the hands of Bradford's heirs just where he found it, unsatisfied, and
unlocated. He has by his entry deprived them of nothing which

SUPREME COURT.
[Galloway v. Finley et al.]

they had before his entry. Their warant is as good in the law, and
worth as much, now as it ever was! It will buy two thousand two
hundred acres of land any where in the Virginia reservation. If that
territory is exhausted, the faith of a sovereigr state is pledged to make
good the deficiency; and if that duty, as some Say, be transferred
to the United States, no one can doubt the ability or the disposition
on'their'part to give full indemnity in money or lands to all bona
fid holders of such warrants. Let us suppose, that instead of military land the defendants had soldto complainant congress land, say
section No. 10, in a given township, and range. Suppose the complainant possessed, no matter how, of eight hundred dollars in cash,
belonging to defendants. The complainant, looking after his title to
the l0th section, finds that it has never. been entered or bought by
any one, in any way, but is open to ,entry at one dollar and twentyfive cents per acre. Would an court imagine that itthen became
the duty of the complainant to take the money of the defendant in his
hands, and buy of the government the 10th section in defendant's
name; or could it be conceived within his province as vendee of a
tract of land- at any time, to seize the money or property of the
vendor, to make good the title which he had contracted for. Such
is the case, as contended for by the'defendants here. The defendants,
indeed, knew that such a warrant, as would appropriate'the land -in
question, was said to exist; but the Court will bear in mind, that
neither thewarrant nor the patent, if in existence, were then, or are
now, eitherin the hands of complainant, or any one for his use. And
this brings us to consider, secondly; whether it is shown by deferidants, that Galloway in September, 1835, had'it in his power to locate
the original warrant of Bradford on the identical land in questim at
that time, so as to make it certain that by such act he would be able
to obtain a legal title without litigation to the land in question.
In the first place, the Court will remember that the warrant was
not in :our possession; that we had bought and paid'for one undivided
half of the 2200 acres of Fielding Bradford, who seems to have had
just claim as heir, to one-half of the warrant. In the second place, a
patent had issued for the identical land in controversy, which seems
not to be-in the poss~ssion, of either party. We maiitain, that an
assignment of the warrant, by the heirs of, Bradford, was indispensable to enable us to enter it in complainant's name. But'if it be
said that our contract for the land supposed to be entered, by it is
equivalent in'law to an assigninent to this we answer, that such entry

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Galloway y.Finley et ah]

would not be g6od against one holding the warrant with an assignment, without notice of our purchase. Such an assignment may
have been made by Fielding Bradford, or by defendants, at any time
since 1789; for from that day to this the warrant has been capable of
"such transfer, never having been lawfully located, at least so far as
we are informed, by the facts in this cause. Surely, then, the Court
will not say that complainant was bound, for the benefit of defendants, to run this hazard; and thus, in the event of his failure to make
the warrant a good foundation for 'his entry, lose the whole land
which he had fairly bought, le~ving himself to be charged with that
very "imala fides," towards those who had bought of him under
his purchase from Fielding Bradford, to whom it is.admitted he had
bound himself to make good legal titles. Nor could the defendant'
enter "an urldivided moiety" of the 2200 acres: he must, in order
to make the contract of defendants good' have entered the whole;
and hence it became necessary to have command of the whole warrant. Defendants only claim one-half; and what disposition-may
have been made by the other heir of Bradford of his portion, is not
shown to the Court, nor is it presumed to-be known by complainant.
It is unknown to the Court, and so far as we know, to the parties,
whether Fielding Bradford is living or dead. His half of the warrant' if he is dead, descended to his heirs at law! Who are they?
Where are they? Are they minors or adults? All these questio.ns
at once arise when Galloway is asked, in September, 1835, to use this
warrant for the purpose of obtaining a clear legal title to this land.
If any doubt existed as to his right so to do, or as to the probability
of such act being good, to hold the land and obtain a patent without
litigation, then it is clear, the Court will not bold that he was bound
t6 incur such risk. Having bought one undivided half of the 2200
acres, and sold, (as he avers, and as is admitted,) on the faith of that
purchase; every obligation of good faith and correct morals impelled
him to make sure that which was necessary to enable him to comply
with his own engagements.
But a patent had.'issued for the land. We insist that no entry
could be valid by. virtue of the warrant, the use of which caused that
patent to issue, till the patent itself wos produced and cancelled. We
refer the Court to the usage of the general land office, as laid down
in the letter from the Solicitor of that bureau, which we have appended to our argument, showing the difficulties which would have
attended an attempt at re-location of the warrant belonging to

280

SUPREME COURT.
[Galloway v. Finley et a.]

Bradford's heirs, by Galloway
If the title was in doubt whieh
was- thus.to be derived, then the Court will not say that-he was
under obligation to make an'y effort td, secure the land' through
that channel. See 2d Hovenden on Frauds, .24-5, and cases there
cited.
It becomes a question of primary importance, under this state of
things, whether Galloway was bound (after the discovery that defendants had no title to the land; and that ii was then vacant,) to
noLilfy defendants, by writing to Pennsylvania, and gi ving them an
Opportunity to search for the warrant; to itistitute an inquiry for
the patent, which must be 'delivered up and cancelled; to. find
Fielding Bradford, if'living, qr his heirs, if he should have died;
and, after.obtaining all these prerequisites, t6 come 'to (Chillicbthe, in
Ohio, and enter the lind in their own names. Because he did not
do this, he is charged with not only overreaching the defend~nts, but
also himself.
To ascertain his duty in such an exigency, we must look at all his
liabilities and all the circumstances; for, from a correct view of
these are the moral and equitable obligations of men always derived.
It is a matter of history that the holders of warrants, since 1830,
have been in the habit of laying them on all lands subject to entry,
by reason of the previous entry b'eing void as in this case. Many,
valuable farms, long cultivated and p9ssessed under entries and surveys made in the nameof.one -dead at the time, have been'taken
from the possessors by subsequent entries. - We mean no 4isparagement to that officer, when we assert that'the register himself,
has been in the habit Of acertaining such eases, and buying warrants,
and locating them on lands thus situated. When, therefire, Gallo.way ascertained this to be the situation of the land he had bought;
when he looked to those to whom he had sold on the faith of such
purchase, to whoni he was bound'to make titles; when he saw that
this land, thus vacant, was at the mercy of the many speculators
who'abounded in that quarter in search of such lands; how -could
he, in good conscience, let an hour pass without placing himself
and hi vendees at rest as to'the title? Had he sent a courier to
advise the defendants, before he returned, the land would have been
entered,. and thus he would forever lose one-half of it already paid
for, and forfeit' his contracts with all to whom he had sold; whilst
the defendants could gain nothing by this idle and dilatory proceeding.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

281

tGalloway v. Finley et al.]

The only course an honest man could take under such circumstances, was that pursued by complair'ant: with his own funds he
proceeded to makq:osure of 'the title necessary to fulfil his own contracts. He boughtiand paid for the whole, and for one-half of it he
has paid twice. Shall all this sacrifice on his part now enure to the
benefit of those, who have led him into difficulty, from which, he has
been obliged to extricate himself with his own means, through ignorance oftheir right to that which they professed to own, but Which
in fact was not theirs.
But if the complainant had been the trustee of the defendants,
constituted by deed to hold for them the very land in question; we
contend that he had, under the circumstances, a right to purchase
and hold -it.
The law is 'settled, we believe, that where, by a judicialdecision,
the property held in trust is found to be owned-by another, then the
trustee may lawfully purchase the -property and hold it in his own
right. This doctrine is founded in reason ahid equity; when the
fiduciary character is terminated for want of an object, the' trust is
at ars end. Hovenden on Frauds, 474-5, 482. Here the land as
ich the supposed trust existed, by the judicial determination of
to
other cases identical with this, was known to all who knew the law,
to be vacant land, and to -be owned, not by individuals, but by the
government. In September, 1835, by the. laws of the land, it was
not the property of defendants; and therefore no trust in their favour
can be raised on a contract concerning it.
'Inthis vie'v of the subject, the parties,, if either had any equity,
stood precisely equal. Neither had -any right to the land, in law
or equity. If the complainant has appropriated it-by Valid entries
first, he is the owner, and must hold it against all the world. If
the possession and ownership of warrants give an equitable right to
land, then complainant had equal right with defendants. The latter,
in September, 1835, owned a warrant, or part of it, calling for 2200
acres'of land in that district; complainant had also a warrant for that
quantity; he entered his, and thus obtained a legal right to the specific land, better than the defendants' equity, if such it may be called.
In this view of their rights, the Well established doctrines apply with
full force in favour of complainant. Between equitable claimants, he
who has precedency'in time has advantage in right. Fitzsimmons
v. Ogden' et al. 7 Cranch, 2.
Having disposed of the question of right, we think proper to subVOL. XII.-2
N

SUPREME COURT.
[Galloway v. Finley et al.]

mit an observation to the Court as to the effect of a refusal to rescind
the contract. Complainant prays a rescission; and if that cannot be
granted, a confirmation of the title. What compensation can the
Court make for the money expended in his second purchase. The
land is held by virtue of Galloway's entry; if he is confirmed in
this, and the contract still enforced, surely he is to be paid for his
warrant. At what price is this to be estimated? If hi. expenditure
enures to defendants' benefit, he should be allowed the amount of
that expenditure on his contract? What is that amount? It would
seem" to be quite impossible by a decree to compel Galloway to withdraw his entry, and go to the Tegister's office, and make an entry on
Bradford's warrant in the name of Bradford's heirs. To'enable the
Court to see the equity of such a decree, it was incumbent on the defendAnts to show the Court whether this warrant he in existence, and
where it is; that it has not been assigned in whole or in part by any
of the persons to whom it passed by descent; that it is not in whole
or in part in the hands of a bona fide holder by transfer, as above
suggested, so as to make it impossible' to appropriate land with it.
Defendants should also show that this last could be done now, upon
the instant, so that the land may not be subjected to that result which
inevitably awaits it; an entry in the meantime by a third person, so
soon as Galloway's entry: is declared invalid. They should show
that the patent is at band, to be canceld as the regulations of the
land'office require, before any new title can be allowed to exist in
its inceptive form, under the old warrant. It was the total want of
all these requisites to any safe and sure proceding of the kind; all
of which resulted from the ignoiance of the defendants of that title
which they assured the complainant they had, and which by law
they were bound to -know they had; itWas this accumulation ol
doubt surrounding the title, which might have been, by possibility,
created with the aid of Bradford's warrant, which made it not merely
'the privilege but'the duty of complainant to reject it altogether; hnd
for his own security, to rely on his own funds, to repurchase of the
government what he had in vain sought to obtain through the defendants' rights.. Th. Court cannot fail to see how great a perversion of language it would be to apply the phrase employed by LordNottingham in Maynard's case, to the conduct of complainant in
this. It is said in that -case, that equity will not aid one who "over-.
reaches himself." The idea of- a reasonable being setting himself
to work to praotice knowinrly a fraud on himself, wnich seems the

JANUARY TERM, isms.

28s

tGalloway v,Finley et al]
true and only definition of the phrase, is not according -to any established notion of human conduct so clearly possible, as to admit it
amongst those plain andsimple elemnent~ry truths which compose the.
great body of chancery law. It might naturally enough, however,
suggest itsqlf to a mind perplexed'and mystified as his lprdship's no
doubt was, by the tortuous expedients of one of the parties in that
case, td gain an undue advantage. But as there is no sin~ilarity between the facts of that case and this, so there is no propriety in applying afly'rule of that case to the present. Instead of "overreaching himself," the complainant in this case, when he made his
entry, stood exactly in the condition of a bona fidi purchaser,fin&
ing his title not merely in peril, but utterly gone. He was compilled to protect himself. His is the case which a court of,equity will
protect against "a creditor, or an heir, or the fatherless." Sugden's
Vendors,,723. His own warrant and his own entry, were the only
plank he could seize in the shipwreck, to which tie culpable ignorance of the defendants as to their, own rights had exposed him.

Mr. Fetterman for the defendants.
To form a correct opinion upon the. questi6n, whether the complainant, in this case, does present himself under circumstances which
impose on a court of conscience obligations to give him its aid, it
wil l be 'useful to take a general view of that system of lan'd titles,
which has been introduced into the Virginia military district, in the
state of Ohio, within which the land in controversy lies. That systein of law being made up of usages, and growing out of cinrcumstances, both of. which are pectiliar to itself, and out of the range of
treatises on- common law and. equity, the bar of Pennsylvania have
had little o.ccasion 'to make themselves acquainted with even the leading features and outlines of those military titles.
So far as my limited knowledge will enable me, I will attempt a
concise statement of the seyeral steps by which a military title is
perfected. Upon proof to the executive of Virginia, by a person
that he is entitled to bounty lands, un'der the law of that state, for
revolutionary services in the Virginia line, on continental establishment; the -governor issues his warrant, which is a mandate to the
principal surveyor of the military district,directing him to survey
for the person entitled to the bounty, the quantity of land specified
in the warrant. 'The warrant does not direct what partictilar tract
of land shall be surveyed; and hy usage, the owner of the warrant,

SUPREME COURT.
[GallQway v. Finley et.al.)

or his agent, has a right to direct the principal, surveyor to survey
the warrant; that is, the number of acres called for by the warrant,
in one or more tracts,on any lands within Lhe.district he shall desig-

nate, not previously appropriated to the, satisfaction of some other
warrant, The specification of the particular tract or tracts selected
in satisfaction of the warrant, is made in a book kept by the principal
surveyor, called "The Book of Entries or Locations." The entry
or location, is a mere entry or statement in the book aforesaid, of the
quantity of land entered; the number of the warrant which it satisfies in whole or in part; the name of the person for whom the entry
is made, together with a general description of the locality of the
land entered. Any description which can be reduced to certainty
by a subsequent survey, is, sufficiently certain and specific; next follows the survey of the entry, which must conform to the oalls of the
entry; a ertified copy of the warrant, entry, and survey on them, is
forwarded to 'Washington city, to the commissioner of the general
land office of the United States, upon which a patent issues in conformity with the survey,
The owners of these warrants, for the most part, resided in Eastern Virginia, several hundred miles from- the district;. and the lands
were chiefly taken up, in satisfaction of them, at an early day, while
the- district was a wilderness: consequently, the whole business -of
making entries.or selections of land, was by agents. These agents
were generally deputy surveyors, appointed by the principal surveyor'to make surveys for him as his deputies. They, therefore,
held the double relation of agents foi" the owner of the warrants, and
deputies of the principal surveyor Every holder of a warrant
would naturally seek to get the best lands unappropriated. To effect
that'object, men who had, acquired an intimate knowledge of the localities' of the distric.t, such as hunters, Indian spies, &c,, ,ere sought
after. This class of men took up the business of surveying, and became the deputies of the principal surveyor. The business of selecting land, and making entries and .surveys for owners of warrants,
fell almost entirely into the hands of this class of men.
There were no lawyers among thepr. This system of titles and
of Iaw, was not therefore marked out -byjudges, and lawyers; but
by plain, practical woodsmen, and surveyors, who were ignorant of
law as a science, The property of a large and rich country, is based
upon their transactions. Courts, therefore, have inquired i to their
usages, and have, sustained their proceedings, wherever they were

JANUARY TERM,.1838.
[Galoway v. Finley et al.]

not in conflict with established principles of law, which the ministers of justice were bound to obey. These deputy surveyors were
ignorant of the princinles of the common law, "-that to vest a title t3
land, either legal or equitable, there must be a person in esse to
take." -It was the common opinion of all locaters, that if the entry
and survey were made in the name of the soldier to whom the warrant issued, that was sufficient; without going into the inquiry whether he was dead or alive. As a consequence of this general, error,
a vast rjumber of entries in the military district,,both in Ohio and
Kentucky, were made in the names of deceased persons, to whom
,.rarrants had issued. It is obvious, that such entries must have been
made in ignorance of the law or the facts, as, in every conceivable
case, there was every inducement.to make 'a valid entry; and no
motive can be conceived for themaking of a void one. This subject
attracted the attention of the Kentucky legislature, as early as the
year .1792. As it was known these entries were numerous in. that
state, and' intended to be bona fide appropriations of the land entered,
in all instances, a quieting ac. was passed in that year; which declared that lands granted to deceased persons, should descend to their
heirs or devisees. Morehead and Brown's Statutes of Kentucky,
vol. 1,,779; Littell's Laws, vol, 1, 160. This 'defect, seems not to
have. come to the knowledge of the locaters in Ohio, who continued
the same mode of location till 1830; when the Supreme Court of the
United States decided that an .entry in the name of a deceased per.son, Was a nullity. Gait et al. v..Galloway, 4 Peters, 332. Same
doctrine affirmed; M'Donald v. Smalley et al. 6 Peters, 261. By
those decisions, the entry in the name of Bradford, in the present
case, would be a nullity, were no law of congress affecting-it not appicable to those cases. My present purpose is to treat the entry in.
the name of Bradford, as a Dullity; as though this, and the two
cases above referred to, were precisely the same in facts and circum'.
stances. The entry, then, in the name of Bradford, being a nullity,
it follows, of course, that the warrant issued in his nam remained
unsatisfied, and is so to this day; and that the warrant, on the death
of Bradford, descended to the heirs of' Bradford Kerr v. Moore, 9
Wheaton, 570; and not to his administrators.
Consequently, the heirs of Bradford, on discovering the invalidity
of the entry, had nothing to do but to re-enter the warrant on the
same land, and acquire a:valid title. In this way, they could have
readily cured the defect, if any in the title of the land in question ;

286

SUPREME COURT.
[Galloway v. Finley et al.1

for, up to the time of the entry: made by the complinant, in'Septenmber, 1835th-e.land remained unappropriated, according to complainant's own showing. That the respondents had it in their power
to cure the. defect in their title, also ajpears by .the complainant's
own .showing, and. by his own conduct; and it was to prevent their
doing so, that the complainant kept the defect from the knowledge
of. the respondents, until he had effected an entry of the land in his
own name. Had not Galloway entered this land, but filed his bill
for revision of contract, for defect of title, would not the Court have
said it is in the power of defendants to perfect their title, and they
should have an opportunity of doing so? And how came heI pos.sessed of facts which- enabled'him to detect the flaw in theif title?
As again appears, by his own showing, through the respondents.
They communicated to him the date of the death of Bradford; on
comparing which with the date of the entry, he being an old locater,
and a party to the suits of Gait v. Galloway, and M'Donald v. Smalley
et al., knew full well 'the' defects of the title; and equally well did
he'lnow that the respondents were ignorant of. the defects. When
therefore, through the respondents, and in consequence of their contract With him, he became acquainted with this technical fliw in
their titlei of which they wer6 totally ignorant, what-was he bound
in equity and good conscience -to do? Had he a right to use that
information, so acquired, to defeat their title; and to put it out of
their power to comply with the contract with him? I think he was
bound, by every principte of honesty and fair dealing, to have point,
ed out the defect to them, that they might. remedy it; a matter. so
easy'for them to-effect;) before they would have had to make him a
title,, which, by their contract, they were Dot hound to do till January, 1839. 'If he was not morally bound to point out the defects. to
them, he'certainly had no right to do any act Which would 'prevent
their making him a title at the time stipulated.
I take it to be a well settled principle, both in law and equity, that
an obligee shall do no act to obstruct or prevent the obligor from
complying with his covenants; and if he do,:the obligor shall be
thereby discharged from its performance. Ballow 'v, Tucker, 1
Pickering's Rep. 287; Co. Lit. 206; and Bacon's Abridgment, Tit.
Condition; 5 Viner's Abr. Condition, 242, &c. And when a complainant comes'into a court of equity, liable to such' an imputation,
it is certain that the court will not grant him its aid, but will leave
him to his remedy at law, if any he have, or is entitled to.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

287

[Gall6way-v. Finley et al.]

Tlat in this case the complainant has, knowingly and dishonestly,
done an act which deprives the respondents of 'the legal power to
comply with their covenant to convey a good title; there can be no
doubt resting'upon the mind of any one who will carefully examine
the transactions as disclosed by the bills and answers. The Statute
of Kentucky, before referred to, M'orehead and Brown, vol. 1, 779;
Littell's Law, vol. 1, 160, 1792; shows, that the title was void by.
reason of a technical rule of law. Yet they are bona fide titles, which
in equity had a claim to protection..
lence the passage of that act.
The words of that act.are as follow: "Whereas, in some instances,
grants have issued in the names of persons who, were deceased prior
to the date of the grant, aid cases of the same tiature may happen in
future; Be it enacted, That in all such cases, the land conveyed shall
descend to the heir, heirs, or devisees; in 'the same manner that it
would do had the grant issued in the lifetime of such decedents."
This act, though itslanguage extends to the healing of titles where
the patent only issues before the death of the patentee, yet the courts
of Kentucky have, by a series of decisions, extended 'the equity of
the act to cases where-the entry and warrapts bore date subsequently
to the death of patentee. Hamsford, v. Mineler's Heirs, 4 Bibb's
Rep. 385; M'Cracken's Heirs v.Beall et al. 1 Ky. Rep. 208 Bowman v. Violely, 4 Monroe's Rep. 351; Adams'v. Logan, 6 Monroe,
177; Lewis v. M'Gee, 1 Marsh'all, 200; Speere v. Fisback, I Mar-shall, 356.
A recent act of congress, passed May 18th, 1836, entitled "An act
to give effect to patents for public lands, issued in the names of deceased persons, provides, that in all cases where patents.for public
lands have been, or may be .issued in pursuance of any law of the
United States to a person who had died, or who shall hereafter die
before the date of such patent, the title to the land desigilated therein
shall enure to, and become vested in, the heirs, devisees or assignees
of such deceased patentee; as if the patent had issued to the deceased
person during life; and the provisions of said act shallbe construed
to extend to patents for la)ids within the Virginia military districi in
the state of Ohio."
It is apparent, f-om the provisions of thb foregoing act, and prom
the fact that congress saw fit to pass it, that that enlightened body
considered 'as did the legislature of Kentucky nearly a half 'century
befote,, such titles, though void in law, entitled to protection, as Jbona
fide; and but for the act of the complainant in this case, in entering

SUPREME COURT.
[Galloway v. Finley et Ql.1

the landsinidispute,.these respondents, beyond all doubt would, by
virtue, of the aforesaid" act of congr'ss, havehad secure4 to them a
perfect legal title' to said land; and I shall "endeavour to show that
they have such-a title vested in them, by Virtue of said act of congress, noqtwithstandifig the dishonest and fraudulent efforts of the
complainant-to depti'ye them of that title-of that hereafter, when
'Ishall have distosed of the ease, so far as it rests upon -equitable
principle. Anct- it is not my purpose here to discuss the question,
"whether Galloway could,- undar the "ircumstances, recovei in a
court-of law, on the covenants of these rispondents in their contract
with him;" whatever maybe his right in a court of law. It is very
cleat to my mind- that a court of equaity will leave him to resort to
his legal remedies, if any he has; and will not afford him itsaid, to
enable him to reap the fruits of'an attempt to overreach the respond
ents. It is a leading principle of eqtity,.that a court of chaxicery,
when called on for specific aid, exercises its 'discretion whethee' it
will interposp;- and will in no case interfere when the party seeking
its aid-has practised any unfairness. H-e muit come into court-with
clean hands. This principle isas old-as the chancery law itself--as
long ago as Sergeant Maynard's case, Freeman, Chancery Reports, 1,
new edition, lord Nottingham, id delivering the judgment of the
court, said "that as this court suffers no man to overreach another, so
it helps no man who has overreached, himself, without any practice
or contrivance of his adversary." 2 Freeman, 106; 3 Swanston, 652,
Maynard v. MIorely
Again, "in equity a party is not. at liberty to set up a legal defence,
which grew out of l is own misconduct," 2 Hovenden on Frauds, 16;
Morse v., Mentz, 6 'Maddo4ks, 25. Surely, if sudh a legal defence
could not be set up, mudh less could it be made a ground for relief
by a complainant. It s also a familiar rule in equity, "that he who
comes into court for assistance, must do equity." Rowe v. Wood, 1
Jac. &Walker's Rep. 333; . Hov. on Frauds, 41. ".The interposition
of courts of eqtiity is governed by our anxious 'attention to the claims
of equal justice; and therefore it may be. laid down as an universal rulp, that they will not interfere, unless the .;.laintiff will consent
to do that Which the justice of the ease requires to be done." Fonblanque's Equity, note A. page 190, ch. 4, sec. 41: Phila. ed. 1831.
Now it may be asked, what does the justice of this case require of
the conplainant? The Court will prescribe such terms to him as justice shall require; and those terms will be, I conceive, that he shall
-

JANUARY TERM,' 1838.

289

F'inlby et al.]
[Galloway ',
pay to the respondents the contract price of land, agreeably to his
contract. And that the respondents convey or assign to hire, out of
theuunsatisfied warrants belonging to them, a number-of acres, equal
to the quantity contracted to be conveyed to him by them, and which
out of their power to convey. Both jarties will then
he has put it,
stand as they would have, done had the complainant not interfered,
and respondents re-etitered and perfected their title.e. A vendor is entitled tSpecific performance, though he have no title atthe Sale. if
,
he can make one before the master's report. -10 Vesey, jr. 315; 14
V esey,jr. 205. There are many cases iri which, though courts refuse
specific- performance, yet they will not rescind contracts. 1 Wheat.
196; see also 2 Story's Equity, 88, and the cases there referred to.
This, I take it, would be fair and equitable, were the courts authorized and disposed to interfere in granting relief in any shape.
But if 'I have a correct view of the case, aid the principles which
should govern it, no relief whatever can be. granted., A decree of
dismissal of the bill, with eosts to the respondent, is all that can be
done, and that on the ground that complainant asks the aid of'the
Court to enable him to overreach the respondents; and that is all
that I can discover he does seek.
I have thus far discussed the case, on the hypothesis that the title
of the respondents was null and void. I shall now endeavour to
show that though it was so in its inception, the law has come to their
relief, and made that a valid title, which at one tiwe was'declared by.
courts to b6 a nullity.
And the entry made by Galloway in September, 1835, is null and
void, on the ground of its being an illegal interference with the
rights and title of the respondents, in violation of an express prohibition of law.
Up to the year 1807, the patent granted in the name of -Bradford,
a deceased person, was a mere nullity; it is conceded in the authorities already cited. Afid any person holding o military warrant,
might have entered the land it covered.
But since the 2d March, 1807, it is believed the lands covered by
ihe warrants in the name of Bradford, have not been open to the entry of any other person, or liable to be covered by any other war-rant.
On the 2d of March, 1807, congress passed an act, the 1st section
of which extended to owners of military warrants a further term of
three years to complete their locations; which act had the following
VOL. XII.-2 0

SUPREME COURT.
[Galloway v.-Finleyet al.]
.proviso: "Provided that
no, locations as aforesaid, within the
mentioned tracts,'shall, after-the passing of-this act, be made onabovetracts

of land for which patents had previously been issued, or which had
been previously surveyed. And any patent which, may. nevertheless
be obtained for land located contrary to the provisions of this section,
shall be considered as null and void."
In May, 1826, 7 vol. Laws f U. S. 516, congress passed an act
extending the tinieAfor making locations till 1st of June, 1832. The
3d see. of that act contains the prohibition of the act aforesaid of
1807; and extends that prohibition to United States' lands, which the
act of 1807 did not do.
On the 31st of March, 1832, congress passed another act,-extending locations for seven years. It being an extension of the act of
R0th df March, 1826, o0fcourqe has the prohibiting claim as to military lands; and is now in forceq.
'In the case under consideration, there Was both a survey and patent;
and it furnishes a case clearly within the pt0vision referred to. That
the proviso could have been intended only for Valid surveys and patents, is idle to suppose; such needed no protecting legislation. The
proviso was ifitended to protect lands defectively located and patented, no doubt; and so the Supreme Court of'the United States have
decided. Doddridgo v.-Thompson, 9 Wheat. 481. In that case the
Court say: "The records of this Court show, that many controversies
were produced in that county by the mode of locating and surveyihg
military lands, which fiad beep adopted under the laws of Virginia;
and it is not unreasonable to 'suppose that congress, when giving- furthe. time to make locations and surveys, might be disposed to cure
the defects in titles already acquired, and to prevent second locations
on lands already located. The words of the proviso, too, are adapted to the saving of private rights."
In the case of Doddridge v. Thompson, the defendant atte mpted to
protect his title ubder the proviso of the act of 1807, on the ground
that the survey of the plaintiff was made in 1810, after. the passage of
that act. But the Court decided that the proviso was not 'applicable
to sales of land at the United States' land offices; and was intended
to 'embrace only military surveys and patents. Besides, the prohibition was only as against locations, and the facts of the case did not
show but the location was made previous to the passage of the act of
1807; andin the absence of proof on that subject, the Court would
presume that the location was made previously in support of the

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
(Galloway v. Finley et al.]

patent of plaintiff. The reasoning of the Court in this case, plainly.
shows, that had the defendant's title been one of military origin, and
the location of the -plaintiffs been after the passage of the act of
March, 1807j his (the defendant's) title must have prevailed by reason of the proviso aforesaid.
In the case under consideration, the title of the respondents is of
military origin; and the location, survey and patents, all bear date
previous to-the passage of the act'of 2d Mqrch, 1807.
The title of the complainants is also of military origin, and his location and survey are both since the passage of the act of March 31st)
1832, now in force, and containing the proviso of the act of-2d of
March, 1807. It is not easy, therefore, to conceive how the loca.tion of the complainant, made on 26th of September, 1835, can possibly escape the operation of the proviso of the act of March, 1807,
and the prohibition contained therein. Tt~e location. of the corn:
plainant's comirtg within that prohibition, then, as I humbly conceive
it clearl does, it must be null and v.oid. And the title of the respondents being thereby freed from the embarrassments of Galloway's entry, is by the healing operation of the act of,18th May,
183.6, made good and valid. It may not be amiss to remark' here,
that so vigilint has congress been in protecting defective title$ acquired, bona fide, that after the decision in the case of Doddridge and
Thomps, , in which the Court decided that the proviso of the at
of 1807 did not extend to lands under the United States' survey; in
the very next renewal'of the extension of time for making locations
in military lands, the prohibition was made to extend to lands within
the disfrict sold by the United States.
The decisions in the cases of Galt v.v Galloway, and M'Donald v.
Smalley and others, (which have no doubt been relied upon by the
complainanti to sustain him in his illegal and unjust course of conduct in this case, beii:g a party to both those cases,) can have no
bearing on this case. The facts in this case are so widely varying
from'the facts of those cases, as to render them entirely inaplicable.
In those cases the party holding title under the entries made in
the name of the deceased person) could not avail himself of th 'benfits of the proviso to the act of 1807; as the entries and surveys in
each case, by both parties, were made previous to the passage of that
act.
In Galt v. GMloway, Galt's entry was madein August, 1787, 4
Peters, 333, and the withdrawal in 1805, five years after Galt's

SUPREME COURT
rGalloway v..
Finley et al.]

death, and two years before the passage of the act of"1807. In
M'Donald v. Smalley et al., M'Donald claimed under an entry made
24th August; 1787, in the name of David Anderson; at which time
Anderson' was proved to have been dead. The defendants, Smalley
et al'., claimed under aa entry on some land, made the 19th' of FebTuaryl.1793, ;n thename of Stephen T. Moron, and a,patent to Morou,
in 1796, and beforQ a patent issued on M'Donald's entry. These
cases, therefore, not coming within the provision of the act of 1807,
do not conflict, in the least, with the 'opinion of the Court in the ease
of Doddridge v. Thompson, as to the intent of congreps, and the healing operation of the act of 1807; nor with the doctrines I contend for
in this case. The patent to Charles Bradford, the ancestor of respondents, purports to vest in'
him a legal title to the land in controversy.
If the act of 1807, and subsequent acts of congress referred to, embrace
this case, as I think has been clearly shown they do; (and th~emoro
so, since being healing and remedial 'acts, their prq.iisions are to be
construed liberally;) then the benefits of' those acts enure to the heirs
or deiisees of said Bradford. If the title be cured at all by those
acts, it is so far cured as to make it a legal title; for The patent must
convey a legal title, if it pass any, of consequence, if the patents to
Charles Bradford convey a legal title, the title ctf the respondents is
a good and valid legal 'title, to the extent they covenanted to convey.
And the ground of complaint on the partof Galloway is gone: and
hid bill must be dismissed, with costs.
I find nothiag in the argument, or in the 'authorities cited" in the
argument in the circuit court, to shake my confidence in the legal
title of the respondents, as cured by the acts of March, 1807, and
May, 1836.
The case of Dunn v. M'Arthur, decided in July, 1836, so far as the
recqrd of the decree discloses, has no bearing upon the question.
The ease as stated by the gentleman, might be considered as of some
weight. But is ie warranted in his statements by the records. Thc
decree was taken pro confesso, pnd of course assumed as true all the
allegations made in the bill, The bill undoubtedly contained the
allegation, that the entry, location, and patent were void, having been
made, in the name of a deceased person; and at the time of the filing
of that bill, (which is evident from the record must have been prior
to the act of May, 1836,) there is as little doubt that the entry, location and patents, were null and void. But by the act of May-, 1836,
they were made -good and valid; and had that act been known and

JANUARY TERM. 1838.
[Galloway v. Finley et al.]

relied upon at the time of the entering of the decree, it is manifest a
different decree would have been the result. It does not appear, that
the act of May, 1836, was at all relied upon, or that its existence was
known; and it is fairly presumable that it was not known, as the
decree was entered but a few (lays after its passage, and the cause was
suffered to go off without any defence. I take it, therefore, that the
act of May, 1836, was not in question; and the decision or rather
decree,-for there was no decision of consequence, has no application
to the case under consideration.' It could not, any how, be taLen as
of any -force in the garbled state in which it appears. Had the point
been decided, as stated by the complainant's counsel in the circuit
court, a full record would have been produced; and this Court would
not have been asked to rely upon the bare statement of counsel.
The case of Blight's Lessee v. Rochester, 7 Wheat. 548, does not
impugn the doctrine, that an obligee or covenantee has no right to do
any-act to prevent his'obligor or covenantor complying with his obligation or covenant. The question in that case was one of estoppel.
The doctrine of estoppel does not apply to this case, nor does the
question at all arise. I am unable to discover the least analogy between that case and this. Had the contract squght to be rescinded
in this case never been entered into, but an action of ejectment
brought by these respondents against Galloway; and in defence of
stich action Galloway had set up his subsequent entry, and -the defective entry and survey in the name of Charles Bradford, to defeat
the plaintiffs' title.; and in answer to that defenrce the plaintiffs had
insisted upon Galloway's recognition of Charles Bradford's title by
his purchase from one of the heirs of Charles Bradford, (Finley
Bradford of whom he purchased an undivided moiety,) and claimed
that he shotuld be thereby estopped from dijuting the legality of
Charles Bradford's title; then the case cited fror- 7 Wheaton might
have hAd some application. But that is not this case. I do not
deny that after the vendee has recei-ed his deed, and all the title the
vendor can give, he may have the right.of purchasing in other interests to fortify his title. But he shall not be permitted, before he
has received a deed, to procure an outstauding title; and then claim to
have his contract rescinded because by his own act he has put it out
of the power of the vendor to comply with his covenant or agreement. The utwost he could claim under any circumstances, I apprehend, wuld be to have the amount paid for the outstanding title
deducted, from the uurchase money due: to make it a ground of an-

SUPREME COURT.
[Galloway v, Finley et al.1

nulling the contract and avoiding the payment of the purchase money
entirely, would be monstrous injustice: such as I, believe a court of
equity will never sanction or listen to.
If it is. at all doubtful wllether the respondents have the legal title
in ordinary cases, it is presumable that Galloway would have applied
to the courts, either state or federal, within whose jurisdiction the
land lies; and who woul& be considered competent at- least, in the
first instance, to make a proper application of the principles of the
tex loci rei sit--. ,1
He, however, has thought proper to resort to another tribunal, and
from their decision he has appealed to the highest tribunil of the
Union. To that tribunal the defendants in error also come, confiding
in the justice and honesty of their case; believing that the great judicialcouncil of the nation will continue to administer justice in equity:
and who, although the decree they may make may not settle the
controversy, so far as regards the title to the land itself, will yet, by
their opinion in this case, reaffirm the great and well-settled principles vf the law of equity that must govern this controversy in all its
bearings; wherever pursued, and wherever determined.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the Court.
The bill alleges.that complainant, on the I 1th of March,'1835,
purchased from Henry R. Finley, and David Barr, who acted for
himself and wife, the sister of defendant, Finley, the moiety of two
tracts of land lying in the state of Ohio; one for one thousand two
l4undred, and the other for one thousand adres, founded on a warrant
for two thodsan' Ax hundred and sixty-six and one-third acres, obtained by Ch.i'les Bradford, as an officer in the revolutionary war,
in the Virginia gontinetal line. That Finley, and the wife of Bart,
were the heirs of their mother; who derived by descent a moiety of
the landsfrom her father, Clio4es Bradfo-d.
Galloway agreed to pay eight thousand dollars for the moiety of
the two tracts, part in hand, and the balance by instalments; the last
of which was to fall due on the first of January, 1839. And Finley
and Darr, covenanted with complainant to convey the moiety of the
lands contracted for, in fee, so soon as he paid the purchase money.
It is also alleged Finley and Barr promised, at the' time the agreement was made, to forward from Pennsylvania, where they resided,
to Galloway, who resided in Ohio, the title papers, apdl- the power of
attorney, authorizing Barrito, contract for his wife.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

295

[(alloway v. Finley et al.]

That after the date of the contract, the wife of Barr died, a minor,
intestate, of course, and without issue.
As grounds of relief, it is averred that the title papers were not
forwarded, nor the power produced. But, 'principally,, that after
making the contract, the complainant discoyered Charles Bradford,
the grantee, had died in 1789; and that the lands were entered, surveyed, and granted in his name, in 179 3 and 1794.

Finley and Barr, by theif answer, admit the contract to have been
made as stated; deny that title papers were to be furnished by them;
admit they promised to forward the power, and the death of Mrs.
Barr, but allege respondent Finley was her sole heir; admit Charles
Bradford died in 1789%and that the lands were entered and surveyed in 1793, 94,'and afterwards patented in his name.
The respondents, howeyer, mainly rely for their defence on the
fact, that, on the °26th of September, 1835, the complainant, Galloway, entered the two tracts of land, the moiety of which was agreed
to be conveyed, in his own name, and, as they allege, without their
knowledge, and with the fraudulent intent of depriving the heirs of
Bradford, of it; and thereby to render it inpossible for them to
comply with their contract. And the defendant, Finley, for himself,
and as heir of his sister, offers to comply with the agreement.
It is urged,-the entries, surveys, and grants in the name of Charles
Bradford, after his death, were void. Suppose the fact to have been
so when the agreement of March, 1831, was'made, and that the
lands were subject to appropriation when Galloway entered them, in
September, 1835, then the rule applies--" That if a vendee buys
up a better title than that of the vendor, and the vendor was guilty
of no fraud, he can only be compelled to refund to the vendee the
amount of money paid for'the better title." Learey v. Kirkpatrick;
Cooke's Ten. Rep. 211; 1itchell v. Barry, 4 Hayne's Ten. Rep. 13G.
In reforming the* contract, equity treats the purchaser as a trustee
for.the vendor,.because he holds under the latter: and acts done to
p(:fect the title by the former, when in possession of the land, enure
to the benefit of him under whom the' possession was obtained; and
through whom the knowledge that a defect in the title existed, was
'derived-. The vendor and vendee stand in the relation of landlord
and tenant; the vendee cannot disavow the vendor's title. 3 Peters,
48; 2 Marshall's Ky. Rep. 242; 5 Yerger's Ten. Rep. 398. This
case furnishes a fair illustration of the propriety of the principle.
Charles Bradford was a non-resident; that he had died before the

SUPREME COURT.
.[Galloway v, Finley et al.]

lands were entered and granted, was unknown to Galloway until he
obtained the information through the heirs of the grantor, after the
sale; for forty years the title had been deemed valid, and the defect
was exposed by the production of his will, aad the'endorsements of
its probate, in 1789. The fact, thus ascertained, was confidential, in
its character is between the parties to the contract; and Galloway
could not be':permitted to avail himself of it whilst standing in the
relaion of a-purchaser, to defeat the agreement: under the most fa.voufable circumstances, he could only ,have it reformed, and the
rnipnt advanced to perfect the title deducted from the unpaid purchase money, But this is not the attitude the complainant assumes
by the' bill first filed. He claims an entire rescission.
On the 20th of May, 1836, pending the suit;-congress passed an
act, 4 Story's Ed. 24, 36 to give effdct to patents issued to deceiased
persons; which provides, " that grants issued to persons who had
previously died, should enure to and become vested in the heirs of
such deceased liatentee, as if the same had issued to the deceased
person during his ife; and that the provisions of the act should be
construed to extdnd to patents for lands Within the Virginia military
district, in the state of Ohio."
That the legal title to the lands patented in the name of Charles
Bradford, vested in his heirs by force of the act i cannot be denied.
9 Cranch, 43"' 2 Wheat. 196. Grant, then,, all that is claimed for
the complainant; still his entries of September 1835, conferred a
mere equity, and the defendant, Finley, holds the fee: and the complainant, by raising the warrants from his entries, will have sustained
damage only to the amount of the, officer's fees: or, take it the other
way, and compel 'Finley and Barr to compensate for the warrants,
then of' course they would be entitled to them, and the effet be the
same. Had Galloway's entries been valid, 'and had he acted in good
faith as regards. the defendants, by giving notice of the means used
to perfect the titles; and had'he sought by the bill, what in equity
and conscience he was entitled to as compensation, a court of chaficery could not have refused relief: but he invokes aid to defeat the
entire contract, and nothing less, in sanction of acts intended, from
his own showing, to deprive the complainants of their money and
lands; thus assuming an attitude before the Court, and asking its active aid,,under circumstances, that, were he a defendant, and set up
like claims, it would be difficult to say he could be compensated: as
a complainant, he surely cannot be heard.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Galloway v. Finley et al.]

Then as to the loss of the warrants and fees: it having been the
clear duty of the appellan't to enter the lands for the benefit of his
vendors, and only to have demanded compensation for expense and
trouble: and he having entered for himself; a court of equity must
decline to assist him,'(in the language-ofIMr. Justice Story,2 Story's
Eq. 8,) to escape from the toils which he has studiously prepared to
entangle-others: it must be left to him to get rid of his entries, and
secure the benefit of his warrants. The act of congress having'conferred 'on the defendant, Finley, the legal title, equity will not tale
from him his legal advantage. 1 Wheat. 196; 2 Story's Eq. 88;
Sugden on Vendors, 365, 375, 7th ed. If Finley-has the title, and'
can perform the contract on the 1st day of January, 1839, when the
last payment falls due, thig is all the law can require of him. Yet
it is an established rule in equity, that where the vendor has not the
power to make title, the vendee may, before the time of performance,
enjoin the payment of the purchase money, until the ability to comply with the agreement for title is shown; Royer v. Patton, 1 Ten.
Rep. 258: Ralston v. Miller, 3 Randolph's Va. Rep. 44; but then the
court will give a reasonable time to procfre the title, if it appears
probable, on reference, that it may be procured. Frost v. Bronson)
6 Yerger's Rep. 36, 40.
By an amendment to his bill in October, 1836, the complainant
sets forth his entries of 1835, and the surveys thereof, and again
prays a rescission of the contract of March, 1835. "or, that if the defendants at the date of the contract, had a' good and perfect title to
the piemises they contracted to convey, and authority to perfect
their agreement; then the complainant is ready, and tenders a completion of the contract."
The only allegation in the amended bill, varying the case is, that
at the time the agreement was entered into, complainant was ignorant
that the patents for the lands had been made in the name of a person
that was dead. The respondents admit the fact: but state that complainant derived his first knowledge of its existence from a sight of
Chai'les Bradford's will, lfter he made the agreement. It seems
respondents were, at that time equally igr rant, not knowing, or
having overlooked the dates of the entries and patents. If complainant had not 'entered the lands, then he would have been entitled to
a rescission of the contract; had no title been acquired by the defendants, through the medium df congress.
The principal ground relied on for relief being, that the patents
VOL. XII.-2 P

SUPREME COURT.
[Galloway v. Finley et al.]

were-void, because made after Charles Bradford's death;-we will
proceed to examine it. That a patent thus made~passes no title, is
true in the nature of things; there must be a grantee befQre- a grant
can take effect; and, so this Court held, ih Galt v. Galloway, 4 Peters, 345; and M'Donald v. Smalley, 6 Peters, 261. Yet this is not
the question presented; it is, whether the appellant was permitted
to enter the lands purporting to have been granted to Charles Bradford, notwithstanding his deat0? And this depends upon'the act of
1807, ch. 34, and others, continuing the provision up to the date of
Galloway's entries. The time for locating Virginia military claims
for services on the continental establishment, between the Little
Miami and Sciota rivers, had expired; and by the act, congress extended the time. But on reopening the land office, the following
exception was introduced: "Provided, That no locations as. aforesaid, within, the abovementioned tract, shall, after the passing of this
act, be rpade on' tracts of l;nds for which patents had previously
ben issued, Pr which had been previously surveyed; and any patent
which, may nevertheless be obtained for lands located contrary to
the provisions of this section, shall be considered- null and void."
It is insisted, for appellant, that the section had 'reference to imperfect, and not'void titles. The legislature merely affirmed a principle,
not open to question, if this be the true construction. Had an effective patent been issued, the governmeAt would not have had any
title remaining, and a second grant would have been void -of course.
Something more,.undoubtedly, was intended than the protection of
defeetiye, yet valid surveys and patents; this is not denied, but the
argument insists only irregularities were intended to be covered.
It is difficult to conceive how an irregularpatent could exist, unless it passed no title. -We will not perplex the decision with supposed cases of irregular surveys, but examine the act of congress, And
ascertain its effect as regards the grant in the name of Charles Bradford. It is fair upon its face, and we will -not look behind it for
irregularities. 7 Wheat. 214. The death of the grantee is an extrinsic fact,, not impairing 'the equity of the' claim as against the
government. His heirs had an interest in common in the military
district, with all similar claimants. The truth of the position is unquestionable. 'Jackson v. Clarke, I Peters, 635; Neal v. E. T.
College, 6 Yerger's Rep. 79, 190. T he defects, of all others most
common, in the military grants of Kentucky, Tennessee, and Ohio,
were, where the soldier had died, and the entry) survey and grant

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

299

[Galloway v. Finley ei al.]

had been made in the liame of the-deceased. In his name the warrant almost, uniformly issued'; who the heirs were, was usually unknown to locators, and disregarded by the officers of government
when perfecting titles. In Tennessee and Kentucky, proVision was
made at an early day, that the heir should take by the graqt; and
why should we presume congress did not'provide for the protectioi
of his claim to the lands purporting tc have been granted; when the
legislation of the federal government was, of necessity, controlled
in this respect, by the experience- of members coming from states
where there were military lands? The statute is general, including
by'name all grants, not distinguishing between void and valid; and
the plainest rules of propriety and justice-require that the courts
should not introduce an exception, the legislature having made none.
1 Peters, 636, 638;- Martin & Yerger's, Ten. Rep. 361.
But it is insisted this Court did make an exception in the cause of
Lindsey v. Miller, 6 Peters, 666 and which should- be followed.
What Was that case? A grantee from the government sued a defendant in ejeetment, claiming, in the military'district of Ohio, by virtue
of an elder entry and survey; and the question was, whether the
junior patent to plaintiff was void, because made contrary to the act
of 1807. The defendant's entry, by mistake, had been founded on a
warrant for services, not in the continental line, but in the Virginia state line; a claim not subject to be satisfied in the Ohio
-military district. 7 Wheat. 1. The location and survey were therefore mere nullities; and the Court very justly held, thatcongress did
not, by the act of 1807, contemplate such claims, and that they were
not within the purview of the act. But had the claihiant been entitled to the satisfaction of his warrant in the military district, in
common with others, for whom the government held as trustee; the
case might have been very difteonI, even hiad the entry and survey
been invalid. Congress had the power in 1807, to withhold from
location 9 ny portion of the military lands; and having done so, in
regard tiy that previously patented in the name of Charles Bradford,
the complainant, Galloway, had no right to enter the same. His locati6n being void, it follows, the- act of 20th May, 1836, vested the
title to a moiety in the defendant, Henry R. Finiey, exempted from
any influence of the ett'ics.

The decree of the ircit court is therefore affirmed, and the bill
ordered to be disrnissed(.

