SUPREME COURT.

JAMES

WHITE, PLAINTIFF V. HIIgAM TuRK, JAMES VAUGHAN, AND
WILLIAM GRANT.

The intention of congress, in passing the act, authoiizing a division of opinion of
the judges of the bircuit eourts of the United States to be certified to the Supreme
Court was, that a division of the judges of the circuit court, upon 'a single and
material point, in the progress of the cause,.should be certified to the Supreme
Court for its opinion; and not the whole cause. When a certificate of division
brings up the whole cause, it would be, if theCourt should decide it, in effect,-the
exercise of original,, rather than appellate jurisdiction.
The case of the United States v. Banby, 9 Peters, 367, c._ted and approved.

ON a certificate of division from the circuit court of the United States

for East Tennessee.
Coxe for the plaintiff.-No counsel appeared for the defendants.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the Court.
Mr. Justice M'KINLEW delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a case certified to this Court from the circuit court of the
United Statesfor the eastern district of Tennessee.
A petition was filed by the defendants, Vaughan and Grant, stating
that a judgment hpd been rendered in that court, in favour of the
plaintiff, against the said Turk, at the October term, 1834, for the
stim of eight hundred and ninety-three aollars sixty-seven cents;
that said Turk had been arrested-upon a ca. sq., issued upon said
judgment, and that the other two defendants had become his sureties
in a bond, with condition that he should make-his personal appearance at the court-house in Kno6xville, on the second.Monday of
October next thereafter; then and there to pay a debt recovered by
James White,. in said suit against said Turk, for eight hundred and
sixty-six dollars, twenty-one and a half cents, take the oath of insolvency, or make a surrender of his property, as prescribed by the
laws of the state;.otherwise, the bond to remain in full force and virtue: that this bond, together with the ca. sa. had been returned to
said court at its October term, 1835, and judgment rendered thereon

JAMNU4RY TERM, 1838.
[White v. Turk et al.]

against all the .defendants; upon a motion, and without notice to them
of the motion. For reasons stated in the petition, they prayed for
and obtained a supersededs.
At the, October term, 1836, of said court, "on a motion being
made to set aside the judgment, for the reasons assigned in the petition; and on the ground that the statutes of the state of Tennessee,
referred to in the petition, and under which ehe bond was taken,
and the judgment on it rendered, on a part of the insolvent laws
of the state, and carjnQt apply to proceedings on an execution
i~sued from the federal court; and on a full consideration of the
subject, the opinions of the judges were opposed on the following
points."
"First,.whether the omission to name in the bond the sum called
for in the execution, and the naming. of a different sum does not
vitiate it? Secondly, whether the omission to state in the bond
the court before which the defendant is to appear, take the oath of
,insolvency, or surrender his property, does not vitiate it? Thirdly,
whether th& omission to set out in the bond, the writ of execution,,
or refer -to it, does not vitiate, it? Fourthly, whether the proceedings authorized by the statutes of the state -6f Tennessee, passed
in 1824, chap. 17; and in 1825, chap. 57, can apply to the federal
courts? Fifthly, whether, on account of the above defects, the bond
is not void; and the proceedings on it, under the above statutes, consequently, a nullity?"
The intention of congress, in passing the act under, which this
proceeding has taken place was that a division of the judges of the
circuit court, upon a single and material point, in the progress of
'the.cause, should be certified to this Court, for its opinion; and not
the whole cause. The certificate of the judges, in this case, leaves
no doubt that the whole cause was submitted to the. circuit court,.
by the motion to set aside the judgment on the bond. -And, had
the court agreed in opinion, and rendered a judgment upon the
points submitted; it would have been conclusive of the whole rhatter'
This certificate, therefore,
in controversy between 'the parties.
-brings the whole cause before this Court; and, if we were to decide the questions presented, it Would, in effect, be the exercise of
original, rather than appellate jurisdiction. United State,. v. Bailey,
9. Peters' Rep. 267; Adams, Cunningham and Company v. Jones,
decided at the present term of this Court.

240

SUPREME COURT.

[White v. Turk et al.]
For these reasons, the cause is remanded to the circuit court,
this Court not having jurisdiction of the questions, as stated.
Mr. Justice BALDWIN dissented

This cause came on to bp heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of East
Tennessee, and was argued by counsel. On ,consideration whereof,
it is the opinion of this Court, that the wbole case has been certified
to this Court; and as it has been repeatedly decided by this Court, that
the whole case cannot be adjourned on a division of the judges, the
Court cannot decide this case in its present form. Whereupon, it
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this Court, that this cause
be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, for
further proceedings to be had therein, according to law and justico; this Court not having jurisdiction over the case, as stated.

