84

SUPREME COURT.

JOHN M'NWEL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. LOWELL HOLBROO.
in an action on four promissory notes, one of which was drawn by the defendant, in
favour of the 'plaintiff, and the others were drawn by the defendant,.in favour of
other persons who had-endorsed them to the plaintiff, parol evidence was properly
admitted that the defendant acknowledged that he was indebted to the plaintiff, in
the amournt of 4,he' notes, and offered to confess judgment, in the course of a negotiation with the plaintiff's counsel, although the negotiation- fell, through; and
although no proof was given of the handwriting or signatures of the endorsers of
the notes. This case does not come within the reason or principle Qf the rule
which excludes offers to pay, made by way of compromise upon a disputed claim;
and to buy peace.
The court is not bound to give any hypothetical direction to the jury; and to leave
them to find a fact, where no evidence of'such fact is offered, nor any evidence
from which it can be inferred.
The admissions of a defendant, that he is indebted to the plaintiff on promissory notes,
when prQved by competent testim6ny, are sufficient evidence of the transfer of
negotiable paper, without proof of the handwriting of the payer. Whether the
evidence was legally competent for that purpose, or not, is a question for the
court, and not for the jury; in the absence of all contradictory testimony.
By the act of the legislature of Georgia, of 15th December, 1810, the assignment or
endorsement of a promissory note is made sufficient evidence thereof, without the
necessity of proving the handwriting of the assignor. The judiciary act -of 1789
declares that the laws of the several states; except when the constitution, treaties,
or statutes of the United States require otherwise; are to be rules of decision, in the
cburts of the United States, in trials at common law, where they apply. The Court
does not perceive any sufficient reason for construing this act of congress so as to
exclude from its provisions those statutes of the several states, which prescribe
rules of evidence in civil cases, in trials at common law.
The object of the law of congress, was to make the rules of decision of the courts
of the United States the same with those of thd states; taking care to preserve the
rights of the United States, by the exceptions contained in the section of the
judiciary act. Justice to the citizens of the United States iequired this to be done;
and the natural import of the woods used in the act of congress, includes the laws
in relation to evidence, as well as the laws in relation to property.
The Court refused to allow ten per centum per annum, interest, as damages for suing
out the writ of error, in this case, on the amount of the judgment in the circuit
court, under the 17th rule of the court. The case was not considered as one
where.the writ of error was sued out merely for delay.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States, for the district of
Georgia.
In the circuit court of the United Statesi for the aistrict of Georgia,
Lowell Holbrook instituted an action on four promissory notes; one

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[M'Niel v. Holbrook.]

of which was drawn by the plaintiff in error, in favour of Lowell
Holbrook, and the three other notes were drawn, in favour of other
-persons, who had endorsed the same over to Mr. Holbrook. An
affidavit of the agent of the plaintiff, stating that the defendant, John
M'Niel, was indebted to Lowell Holbrook in the amount of the
said notes, was filed with the declaration. Issue beigg joined in"the
suit, the plaintiff to support the action, without having proved the
handwriting of the drawer of the notes, or of those-who had endorsed
three of the notes to him, offered'the testimony of W. W. Gordon,
Esq. the counsel of the plaintiff, to prove "that John M'Niel had
repeatedly, and as late as November 1st, 1835, admitted his indebtedness upon those promissory notes; and, at the -same time, offered
to confess a judgment for the amount of principal and interest, upon
certain terms, by which he was to be allowed time for the payment
of part. The negotiation continued until November 3d, 1836; and
then was only not completed, from the inability'of John M'Niel to
pay the cash, which be bad in the first instance offered.'," The defendant objected to the admission of this evidence, and insisted that
the acknowledgment was
only- an offer by the defendant to buy his
I
peace, by a compromise made in the course of a negotiation, .for the
settlementof the claim of Mr. Lowell Holbrook; which said compromise and negotiation having failed, the acknowledgment could not
be given in evidence, to sustain the claim of the plaintiff. The defendant also objected to the evidence; as the plaintiff had declared
against -the defenhdant as epdorser of promissory notes alleged to
"havebeen made by certain persons to him, he was bound to prove
the endorsement of the notes by the said persons; and-the court could
not dispense with the proof of the endorsements. The court refused
to give the instructions, as asked by the defendant; and instructed
.the jury, that the evidence offered and. admitted was sufficient to
entitle the plaintiff to recover against the defendant.
The jury having found a verdict for the plaintiff, according to the
instructions of the court, and judgment having been entered thereon;
the defendant prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was submitted to the Court by Mr. King: who also
moved the Court to allow damages to the defendant in error, at the
rate of ten per centum per annum, according to the 17th rule of the
Court; which allows such damages, when a writ of error is sued out
for delay..

SUPREMEI COUAT.
[M'Niel V. Holbrook.]

Mr. Chief Justice TAW.V delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes up, upon a writ of error directed to the circuit
court for the district of Georgia.
An action of 4ssumplit was brought in that court by Lowell Holbrook against John M'Niel, to recover the amount of four piomissory n6tes made by the -defendant;, one of them payable to Lowell
Holbrook, and three to other persons, who had endorsed them to
thesaid Holbrook, who was~the plaintiff in the court below.
The plaintiff ceclared on the promissory notes; and did not insert
in the decIarafion' any of 'the usual money couits. The defendant
pleaded the genpral issue; and at the trial of the case, the plaintiff.
offered to prove, by a competent witness, "that Sohn M'Niel had repeatedly, and as late as -the first of Nbvember, (the trial took place
on. the 11th of: that month) admitted his indebtedness, upon these
four 'promisgory notes; and at that time offered to confess a judgment
for the amount of prIncipal and interest, upon certain terns, by
which, he was to be aUlowgd time for the payment of part. The negotiati n' continued untilthe third of November, and was then only.
not completed from John M'Niel's inability to pay the cash, Which
he-had in the first ihstance offered', The counsel for the defendant
objected to the admissibility of this evidence, upon the ground-that
it was merely, an offer, on the: part of the 'defendant' -to buy his
peace; in the course of a. negotiation for. the sittlement of the claim'of
the pbiintiff, which had failed. The objection was:overruled by ,the
eourt, and the eVidence given to the jury. 'The defendarnt excepted
to this opinion of.the court.'
The notes, (which were endorsed In blank) together with the evidence above stated, was tho only testimony given in the cause.
The plaintiff offeied no evidence to prove the handwriting of the.
drawer or endorsers; and no evidence was offered by the defendant.
The defendant thereupon' nioved the court to.Instruct the jury:
1st. That the evidence given on the, part of-the plaintiff, was not sufficient to entitle him to recoyr on the three notes, on which he,
had declared as endorsee; without proving the endorsements of the
payees mentioned in the said notes. 2d, That if the jury believed
the acknowledgment abovementioned to have been made by the defendaht, in the course of'a negotiation with the plaintiff, or his attorney, for. a compromise, which had failed; and -for the purpose of
buying his peace 'by such compromise; that such acknowledgment
was not sufficient to entitle the plaintiff to recover on the three

JANUARY TERM, 1838,
[MINiol v. Holbkook.]

notes, on which he sued as endorsee, without proving the endorseinent of the payees. A third prayer was also' mide,,.whieh is. the
same in substance with the. first. The court refused to'.give/the instructions asked for by the defendant, and, direetedthe Pry,thatthe
evidence was sufficient to entitle the plaintiff to -recoveiL To-these
opinions and to the instruction of the court,the'defenda./t e-xcepted;
and the case has been brought here for the revision of this Court.
We think the circuit court was.right. in admitting tbe evidence
above stated. There does not appear to-have been any dispute between the parties, as to the amount due on the notes,;nor as.to the
plaintiff's right to receive it. The negotiation as disclosed in the
testimony, was altogether concerning the time of payment, and not
in relation to'the amount to be paid; and the defendant, in the course
of that negotiation, admitted the debt; and offered to confess judgment for it in the suit then pending, provided time.wao given to hii
for the payment of a part. This was'the' acknonledgment:ofa fact
by the defendant, and- not an offer to. buy'his peace, and we tbink
the testimony was properly, received; although -the admission was
made pending a -negotiation to enlarze the time of payment. The
case does not come within ,the reason or the principle which ekteludes offers to pay, made by, way of compromise upon a disputed,.
claim, and to buy peace.
We 'concur, also, with the circuit court, in the instructions given
to the jury after the testimony was admitted. The 'plaintiff was in
possession of the'. notes endorsed in.blank. The admission of the
defendant of his liability fo the amount, and his offer to confess a.
judgment, was.an admission of the plaintiff's right to the money due
on the notes; and, consequently, wasan acknowledgment that he was
-the maker of the notes, and that- they had been legally transferred to
the plaintiff. There could, therefore, be no necessity for proving
the endorsements; because that proof would have established nothing
more than what had already been proved by the admissions of
the defendant.. For, he could.'not have been indebted to the plaintiff on these notes, unless he was the maker of them, and unless
they had also been legally transferred tb'the plaintiff.
This view of -the subject- disposes of the first and third instructions, asked for by the defenaant.
As relates to the second prayer, the court would unquestionably
have 'been bound to give it, if there had been any testimony from
which the jury could have inferred that the admission in question

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Niel v. Holbrook.]

was made as an offer of compromise, and to buy his peace. But we
see nothing in the evidence from which such an inference could
have been drawn. There does not appear to have been any negotiation concerning the amount of the debt, or the plaintiff's right to receive it; and the court is not bound to give an hypothetical direction to the jury; and to leave it to them to find a fact, where no
evidence of such fact is offered, nor any evidence from which it can
be inferred. Such being the case here, we think the court did not
err in refusing this direction.
The same reasoning applies to the direction which the court gave.
If there had been any evidence conducing to prove the fact insisted
on by the defendant, the jury were certainly the proper judges of its
sufficiency; and the court could not, without encroaching on the province of the jury, have instructed them on that point. But there
was no contradictory testimony, nor any question 'in relation to'the
credibility of the. witness.' The facts as stated by him were not controverte-; and in this state of the evidence, the counsel for the defendant, in his third prayer, moved the court to instruct the jury,
that the acknow'ledgment so proved was not sufficient to entitle the
plaintiff to recover, without proof of the endorsements of the payees.
The point thus presented to the circuit court, wag upon the legal
suficiency of the evidence; the counsel for the defendant insistifig,
that notwitnstanding the admissions of the party, that he owed the
money on the notes, and his offer to confess a judgment to the plaintiff for the' amount, yet the law required the plaintiff to go further,
and to prove the endorsements of the payees, before he. could entitle
himself to recover. In other words, the point was raised, whether
the admissions of a defendant, when proved by competent testimony,
are sufficient evidence of the transfer of negotiable paper, without
proof of the handwriting of the payee. It is in answer to this
prayer, that the court instructed the jury that the evidence was sufficient. The question submitted to the court, was a question of law;
scription, to establish a particular fact. And whether it was Iegally
and turned upon the legal sufficiency of evidence of a certain desufficient for that purpose or not; or whether the law'required higher
or different evidence; was a question for the court, and not for the
jury. The point had, in effect, been decided by the opinion of the
court on the defendant's first prayer; and was properly and correctly decided.
There is another ground upon which, we think, that the court

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

89

[M'Niel v. Iolbrook.1

were right in refusing to instruct the jury, that it was incumbent on
the plairtiff to prove the endorsement on the notes purporting to
have been made by the payees. By an act of the lgislature of
Georgia, passed on the 15th of December, 1810, Prince's Digest of
the Laws. of Georgia, p. 144, it is enacted, "that in all 9ases brought
by any endorsee or enqlorsees, assignee or assignees, on any bil.l,
bond, dr note, before any court of law or equity, in this state; the
assignment or endorsement, without regard to the form thereof, shall
be suifficient evidence of the transfer thereof; aind the said bond, bill,
or note shall be admitted as evidence, without the necessity of proving
the handwriting of the assignor or assignors, endorser or endorsers;
any law, usage or custom to'the contrary notwithstanding."
In a suit, therefore, in the state courts, there would have been no
necessity for proving the handwritings of the endorsers; ,and the
endorsements themselves would have been prima facie evidenice that.
the notes in question had been transferred to the plaintiff; he being
in possession of the notes, and the endorsements of the payers
appearing thereon in blank.
The 34th section of the judiciary act, establishing the courts of
the United States, (1789, ch. 20,) provides, "that the laws of the
several states, except where the constitution, treaties, or statutes of
the United States shall otherwise require or provide, shall be regatdid
as rules of decision in trials at common, law, in the courts of the
United States, in cases where they apply."
We do not perceive any sufficient reason for so construing this
act of congress as to ex'clude from its provisions those statutes of the
several states which prescribe rules of evidence, in civil cases, in
trials at common law. Indeed, it would be. difficult to, make the
laws of the state, in relation to, the rights bf property, the rul6 of
decision in the circuit courts; without associating with them the laws
of the same state, prescribing the rules of evidence by which the
rights of property must be decided. How could the courts of the
United States decide whether property had been legally transferred,
unless they resorted to the laws of the state to ascertain by what
evidence the transfer must be established? In some cases) the laws
of the states require written evidence; in others, it dispenses with it,
and 'permits the party to prove his case by parol testimony: and what
rule of evidence could the courts of the United States adopt, to decide
a question of property, but the rule which the legislature of the state
has prescribd? The object of the law of congress was to make the
'VOL., XII.-M

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Niel v. Holhrook.]

rules of decisionsin the courts of the United States, the same with
those of the states; taking care to preserve the rights of the United
States by the exceptions contained in the same section. Justice to
the citizens of the several states%required this to be done; and the
natural import of the words used in the act of congress, includes the
laws in relation to evidence as well as the laws in relation to property.
We think they are both embraced in it: and as, by a law of Georgia,
the endorsement on these notes was made prima facie evidence, that
they had been so endorsed by the, proper party, we think the circuit
court were bound to, regard this law as a rule of evidence. It dispensed with the proof which the defendant insisted bn; .and the
circuit court, on that ground, were right in refusing the prayers, of
the defendant, which required proof of, these endorsements. Upo.n
the production.,of the notes, the plaintiff was entitled to recover
without the aid of the parol evidence; which is the subject of all the
defendant's exceptions. For this reason,:independpntly of tL e principles herein before stated, we think the judgment of the circuit court
below, ought to be affirmed.
The defendant in error has moved the Court to alloW him ten per
cent. damages, under the 17th rui -of the court, which provides, that
when a writ of error shall appear to have been sued out merely for'
delay; damages shall be awarded at the "rate of ten per cent.: per
annum, on the amount of the judgment. We do not consider this
case as " one of that description: and therefoie, award nothing more
than the ordinary interest of six per cent.
This cause came, on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United'States for the district of Georgia,
andwas.argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is adjudged
and ordered by this Court, that the judgment.of the said circuit court
in this cause be, and. the same is hereby affirmed, with costs and
damages, at the rate of six per centum per annum.

