SUPREME COURT.

JoHNv M'KINNuEY

WILLIAM M'CONNELL AND

KAY MOSS,

PLAIN-

TIFFS IN ERROR V. ,JOHN CARROLL.

To give the 3upremd Court of the United States jurisdiction, under the twenty-fifth
section of the judiciary act, in a case brought from the highest court of a state,
it must be. apparent in the record, that the'state court did decide in favour of the
validity of a statute of the state, the constitutionality of which is brought into
question onthe writ of error. Two things must be apparent in the record; first,
that some one of the questions stated in the twenty-fifth 'section, did arise in the
state court; and secondly, that a decision was actually inade thereon by the same
section.
court, in the manner required by the
Where one of three parties, plaintiffs in a Writ of error, dies, after the writ of error
is issued, it is not necessary to make thp heirs and representatives of the deceased,
parties to the writ of error; 'as the cause of action survives to the two other plaintiffs in error.

IN error to the court of appeals of the state of Kentucky.
This case was argued by Mr. Jones for the plaintiffs in error, and
by Mr. Woodward for the defendant. The argument was upon points
upon which the Court expressed no opinion; as on consideration of
the case, it was found not to be within the jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court; to which it had been removed by a writ of error to the court
of appeals of Kentucky. The arguments of the counsel are not,
therefore, inserted in the report.
Mr. Justice MIKINLEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment of the court of appeals of Ken*
tucky, affirming a judgment of the Jessamine circuit court.
The heirs of John Moss recovered a judgm6nt,.in ejectment, against
the defendant in error, in the said' ircuit court, at the October term,
1815, for a tract of land in Jessamine county; and, at the same term,
commissioners were appointed, in conformity with.the act of the 31st
of January, 1812, concerning occupying claimants of lands, to value
At the last term of this court, the death of John McKinney, one of the plaintiffs,
was suggested, and the cause continued for revivor; under the mistaken opinion that
he was the only plaintiff. On inspectioh of the record, it appears that there are two
other plaintiffs; and, as the cause of action survives to them, the revivor is unnecessary.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

67

[John M'Kinney et al. v. John Carroll.]

the land in coltroversy, the improvements thereon, &c. At a subsequent term of the court, the commissioners made their report; and,
among other things, reported the improvements on the land to be of
the value of one thousand six hundred and ninety-eight dollars. At
the October term, 1819, bf the said'circuit court, an the motion of
the defendant, judgment was rendei'ed in his' favour, against the plaintiffs in ejectment, for'said sum of one thousand six hundred- and ninety-eight dollars. And, on the 25th day of October, 1819, the plaintiffs
in error, as sureties of the plaintiffs in ejeetment, executed a'bond to
the defendant, with condition to pay said sum of one thousand'six
hundred and'ninety-eight dollars, -in two equal annual. instalments,
with interest, as authorized by said act;. which bond had, by law, the
force of a judgment; and execution was authorized to be issued thereon, as in ease of replevin bonds.
On the 7th day of pecember, 1821,,an execution issued'on the bond,
against the plaintiffs in error; who, availing themselves of the benefit
of a statute, then) in force, replevied the debt for two years more.
When execution issued against them, on .the replevin bond, they applied to the judge of said circuit court, for a writ of error coram vohis; and in their petition assigned, in substan6eI.hese errors: first,
the act of the"31st of January, 1811, co hcerning occupying claimants
of lands, i~s
a violation of the compact between Virginia and Kentucky, and a violation of the constitution of the United States; and
'therefore the bond and other-proceedings, under it, are void: second,
but one bond was given for both instalments, whebv there should have
been, a bond given for each instalment: third, but one execution issued
for both instalments, when tjhere shoold have been air ewecution issued
for each instalment: fourth, the law 'under which the replevin bond
was given, is a violation of the constitution'of Kentucky, and a violation of the constitution of the United States; and, therefore, the bond
is void.- fifth, the whole-proceedings'are erroneous, wanting form and
substance.
The judge of the circuit court awarded the writ of error coram vobis,'.on the 15th, day'of March,' 1824, returnable to the next term of
said circuit court. -At which term; on the 28th day of April, 1824,
by judgment of the court,'the writ of error coram vobis was dismissed. From this judgment, the plaintiffs in error appealed to the court
,of appeals; and assigned, there, the following errors: ,first, the court
erred in giving judgment upon the several mattersand errors alleged
in the petition (or the writ of. error coram vobis, and the assignment

SUPREME COURT.
v. John Carroll.]
[John MA'Kinney et al.

of errors therein contained: second, the court ought to have quashed
the said execution, bond, &c. as prayed for in the petition and writ
of error coram vobis. Upon the hearing of the cause, the court of
appeals affirmed the judgment of the circuit court.
The jurisdiction of this Court over this cause, was not questioned
at the bar; but the question appears necessarily to arise on the record,
and must therefore be decided by the Court. The 25th section of the
judiciary act of 1789, confers appellate jurisdiction on this Court, from
final judgments and decrees, in any suit in the highest court of law or
equity of a state, in which a decision of the suit could be had; where is
drawn in question the validity of a treaty, or statute of, or an authority
exercised under the United States, and the decision is against their
validity: or where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or
an authority exercised under any state, on the ground of their being
repugnant to the constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, and
the decision is in favour of their validity: or where is drawn in question the construction of any clause of -the constitution, or of a treaty,
or statute of, or commission held under, the United States, and the
decision, is against the title, right, privilege or exemption set up or
claimed by either party.
In this case, two statutes of Kentucky have been drawn in question, on the ground of their repugnance, to the constitution of the
United States.' But, whether the court of appeals decided in favour
of their validity, will depend first, upon, whether the questions arising under those statutes were not, or might have been, decided upon
the authority of the state laws, without involving their validity under
the constitution of the United States; and, secondly, whether the record of this case shows that the court did decide in favour of their
validity.
A question arose at the bar, whether the judgment of the circuit
court, in favour of the defendant, and against the plaintiffs in ejectment, was before'the court of appeals, on the trial there. ,The counsel
for the plaintiffs in error, insisted that it was; and, therefore, a proper
subject of examination in this Court. The plaintiffs in error were not
parties to the judgment of the circuit court. They became parties, in
the. record, by being the sureties of the plaintiffs in ejectment, in the
improvement bond; which was subsequent to, and, in fact, the fruit
of that judgment. The appeal which they took, was from the judgment of the circuit court, upon the writ of error coram vobis; and
the errors which they assigned, in the court of appeals, limited the

JANUARY- TERM, 1838,
[John M'Kinney et al. v. John Carroll.]

inquiry before that court, to the correctness. of that judgment. But,
independent of these grounds, the statutes of Kentucky, tegulating
the writ:of error coram vobis, limit'.its operationi expressly, to errors
arising subsequent to the judgment of the inferior court.. M (orehead
& Brown's Digest, 1554, 1555.
The first error assigned, in the petition for the Writ of error coram
vobis, draws in questioft the validity of the act of the 31st of January,
1812, concerning occupying claimants of lands; 0n the groind that it
i in. derogationof the compact between Virginia and Kentucky, and
repugnant to the constitution of,the. United States. Neither the plain.tiffs in ejactment, nor the defendant, appear to have raised this question, in any part of the proceedings between them.. The plaintiffs in
ejectment did not sign the improvement bond, and were not,theg6fore, parties to the suit in the court of appeals; and, consequently, are
not.parties here. They, and they alone, had a right to object to the
judgment bf the circuit court against.'thdm, and in favour of the defendant, and the proceediigs under it; on the ground that the act of
the 31st of Janqary, 1812, wab unconstitutional. ;By that act, they
were deprived of the rents and profits of their land,. while in the occupation of the defendan and c6mpelled to pay him for all improvements which he had made thereon. And this is the ground' of the
decision of this Court, in the case ,of Green & Biddle, 8 Wheat..1;
which was relied on by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error. The
plaintiffs in error werethe mere sureties of the plaintiffs in ejectment,
for the money adjudged to the defendalit, for his improvements. The
bond which they signed, was a voluntary act; and apart of the means
provided by the said law, to enable the defendant to obtain satisfaction of his judgment. The validity of the proceedings, so far as they
were concerned, did not depbend uponthe constitutionality of the act
concerning occupying claimants of land; and therefore they'had no
right to complain of it.
The fourth error, in the petition, draws in ,question the validity of
the statute of Kentucky, authorizing- defendants to give Teplevin
bonds, payable in two years, upon the 'plaintiff's failing to causeto
be endorsed on his execution, that he would take the notes of certain
banks specified in the act in discharge thereof. Had the plaintiffs in
error 'paid the amount of the execution, which issued against them,
on the improvement bond, in money, as they were bound to do, this
question would never have arisen. Having availed themselves of the
benefit of the credit extended to them by that act, and delayed the

70

SUPREME COURT.
[John MI'KInney et 41. v. J hniCroll.]

defendant in error, in the payment of the debt they had'thus volun'tarily again aosumed, upon tbemsieives; is it proper, that at the end of

four years, they should 'permitted to 'come into cqurt, and set!.asioe
the whole proceedings against them, Orq the abstract principle_ that
the statute under whidh they had taken plAce, violated the constitution:
of the United States,?,
The court of appeals of Kentucky has decided, that a replevin
,bod can not be set aside at 'the instance of the debtor, on the ground
that the law under which it was givenLwaS unconsttutionaL Let it
be conceded, says the court, that the. constitution of te'United
States,. or of this state, is violated by the Iaw in question; 'whose rights
are infringed-by it,? Certa ily not those of the debtor, for the law is
passed anid operates exchioively for 'his be'nbfit Small & Carr V.
Hodgen, 1 Lit.'R, i6. And in a subsequent case, the purchaser qf a
tract of land, under an execution sale, on a' credit -of one year, at-,
tempted toset aside the bond, which he had given -for the purchase
xhoney; on the grbund that,the law, under which the sale had' been
made, And the 'bond had 'been execiated, violated the!constitution of
the United States. On the authority of the -above .case, the court
refused"t9 set aside the bond and sale. 'Rudd & Miller v. Schlatter
& Gilman; 1 Lit. R. 19..
Upon-this view of the case, it may be fairly presumed, that the
court of appeals.'decidei' upoi some, or all of the grounds here stated;
and that it did not decide in favour:of the validity of the statutes referred to. -But to give this court'jurisdietion, it is nbt sufficient to
show, that the ,ourt below might have dpcided in favour of the
'validity of these statutes, or either of them; it must be apparent,'!n
the record, that the courtdid so decide. In the eases of Crowell v.
Randell, and Shoemaker v. Randell, 10 Pet. R. 391, the co urt went
into a revipw of all the cases, which it had -previously decided, under
the authority of the 25th section of thejudiclary act of 1789.
In'delivering the opinion 'of the Cotift,". Mr. Justice Story says:
" In the interpretation of, this section of the act of 1789, it has been
uniformly held, that to give this Court appellate. jurisdiction, two
things should have occurred and te apparent in the record: first,
jhat,,some one of the questions, stated in the section, did arise in the
court below; and secondly, that a decision was actuilly made thereon
by.the same court,,in the 'same manner required' by the section., If
both of these do not appear in the record, the ,appellate jurisdiction
fails. It is not sufficient to show, that 'such a question might have

JANUARY TERMO 1838.

71

[John M'Kinney et al. v John Carroll.]

occurred, or such a decision might have been made, in the court
below. 'It must be demonstrable, that they did exist, and were
made."
As it no where appears, in the record of the cause under consideration, that the court of apppals, of Kentucky, did decide in favour of
the validity of either of th statutes drawn .in question before it; but,
on the contrary, it appearing to be reasonably certain, that its. judgment was rendered on all the questions presented for its adjudication, on the authority of the state laws; this Court has, therefore, no
jurisdiction of this ease.
The writ of error must be dismissed.

On consideration of the suggestion and motion made by Mr. Jones,
,of counsel for the plaintiffs in error; in this cause, on a prior day of
the present term of this Court, to wit: on Thursday, the 11th day of
January, it is the opinion of this Court, that it is unnecessary to make
the heirs and representatives, of John M'Kinney, whose death has
been suggested on the record, parties to this writ of error; as the
cause of action survives to the tWo other plaintiffs in error.

This cause came on'to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the court of appeals for the state of Kentucky, and was argued
by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is, the opinion-of this Court,
that this-Court has not jurisdiction in this cause; whereupon, it is
now here ordered and- adjudged by this Court, that this writ of
error be, and the same is hereby dismissed for the want of' jurisdiction. All of which is hereby ordered to'be certified to the said court
of appeals, under the seal of this Court.

