JANUARY TERM, 1838.

Ex

PARTE BENJAMIN STORY, IN THE MATTER OF Lo-uiSE LIVING-

STON, EXECUTRIX

OF EDWARD LIVINGSTON,

DECEASED,

APPEL-

LANT V. BENJAMIN STORY.
A bill of exceptions,.is altogether unknown in chancery practice ; nbr is a court of
chancery bound to inscribe in an order book, upon the application of one of the
parties, an order which it may pass in a case before if.
The Court refused to award a mandamus to the district judge of the district of
Louisiana, commanding him to sign a bill of exceptions tendered to him, and to
command him to have inscribed, by the clerk of the court, on the order book of
the court, an order passed by him, in a ease which was before him under a mandate from the Sdpreme Court of the United States, requiring'hirn to do and to
have done certain matters to carry into effect the decree of the Supreme Court,
in a case which had been brought before the Court by appeal from the district of
Louisiana.
At the time when a decree was made in the district court of Louisiana in a case before it, the complainant was dead. The executrix 'was afterwards admitted, by
the district court, to become a party to the suit, and prosecuted an appeal to the
Supreme Court, where the decree of the district court was reversed on the merits;
and the case was sent back to the district court on a mahdate, requiring the decree of the Supreme Court to be carried into effect. The decease of the plaintiff
before the decree, and his having left other heirs besides the executrix, were offered,
in the form of a supplemental answer to the original bill, to the district court,
when acting under the mandate of the Supreme Court i to show error in the proieeagain before the Supreme
ceedings of that court, with a view to bring the
Court, in order to have a re-examination and a reversal of the decree of the court.
The district court refused to permit the evidence of the-matters alleged'to be en.
tered on the records of the courtor to sign a bill of exceptions, stating that the
same had been offered. The Court said, in the case of Skillern's Jxecutors v.
May's Executors, 6 Cranch, 267, it was said, " as it appeared that the merits of the
case had been finally decided in this Court, and that its mandate required only
the execution of the decree, the circuit court was bound to carry that decree intc
execution, although the jurisdiction of the Court was not alleged in the pleadings."
In the case now before the Court, the merits of the controversy were finally decided
by this Court, and its mandate to the district court required onlythe execution o,
the decree. On the authority of this case, the refusal to allow the defendant to
file a supplemental answer and plea, was sustained.'

THE case of Louise Livingston, executrix of Edward Livingston,
deceased, was before this Court at the January term, 1837, on the
appeal of Mrs. Livingston, as administratrix, against Benjamin Story,
from the district court of the United States for the eastern district of
Louisiana. 11 Peters, 351.

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Story.]

The decree of the district court of Louisiana was reversed, and
the case was sent back to that -court on a special mandate from this
Court.
Mr. Crittenden, for Benjamin Story, now presented to this Court
a petition, on behalf of Mr. Story, stating,:That there is pending against' him, in the court of the United
Slates-of the ninth circuit and eastern district of the state of Louisiana, a:certain suit in chancery, in the name of' Louise Livingston,
which suit was 'originally instituted in the name of Edward Livingston.
"That during the present term of the court, your petitioner moved
the court to abate or dismiss said cause, upon the grounds that Edward Livingston had departed this life, before the rendition of the
decree dismissing this bill. That upon the hearing of said motion,
your petitioner introduced a witness for the purpose of proving the
time of the' death of Edward Livingston, whose evidence was rejected by the court; to which opinion an e6ception was taken, and
a bill of-exceptions prepared, which stated truly the facts, a copy of
which accomlpanies this petition.
Upon its presentation, the judge remarked, that. he'would sign no
bill of exceptions unless he was convinced he was bound to sign one.
Upon being subsequ'ently importuned upon the subject, he stated, if
he signed a bill of exceptions, he must give the reasons at length for
his Opinion. He has' been again and again importuned, and unsuccessfully, on the subject.
That on this day your petitioner's .c6unsel'presented -to the court
the annexed answer, &c. and desired that it might be placed upon
the files in the cause. But the court refused permission to file the
same. Thereupon the annexed bill of exceptions was tendered 'to
the judge, which. bill truly stated the facts; but the judge refused to
sign the same, or make. it a part of the record.,.
The court was-then moved to direct the clerk of the court to state
the facts upon the order book; but the court refused to suffr any
notice to be taken of this matter, as a part of the proceedings in
the court; stating, at the same time, that he considered a mandamus
to be the true remedy; and alleging no other reason for not signing
the bill of exceptions, or suffering notice to be taken of the presentation of the answer on the record.
Thus far your petitioner is denied the opportunity of having the

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

341

[Ex parte Story.]

said decisions of the court revised, or of having the records of the
court to speak the whole truth. Your petitioner annexes a full
transcript of the proceedings in said case since it was remanded.
Forasmuch. as your petitioiier is Without other remedy, he prays
your honourable body to award to him a writ of mandamus, in nature
of a writ of procededco, to compel the judge, the Hon. P. K. Lawrence, to sign said exceptions; and to permit the said record to speak
the truth.
Your petitioner prays for whatever else in the premises that the
circumstances of the case will require."
The facts stated in the petition were verified by an affidavit, by
Mr. Chinn, the counsel for the petitioner, in the circuit court.
The following is a copy of one o1 the bills of exception referred
to in the foregoing petition:
LIVINGSTON)

v.

On motion to strike the cause from the docket.

STORY.

Be it remembered, that on the trial of this motion, the defendant,
Story, introduced Henry Carlton as a witness, and offered to'provre
by him, that Edward Livingston, the former complainant herein, departed this life on the -day of
-- , and before the trial and
decree in this court, at the spring term, 1836; and also, that Ed(vard
Livingston left living a daughter and heir at the time of his death,
who is still living. To the admissibility of all of- said evidence, the
complainant's counsel objected, and the court sustained the objection;
and would not permit said witness to be examined, or the testimony
of the foregoing facts, or either of them, to. be inquired into. To
which opinion of the court the defendant excepted, and prays that
his exception may be signed, sealed and enrolled, which io done.
The motion was opposed by Mr. Key, the counsel fop Mrs.! Livingston.
Mr. Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
In this case, a mandamus has been moved for okbehalf of Benjamin Story, to. the circuit 'court for the ninth circuit for the eastern
district of Louisiana.
The facts in the case are as follow: Edward Livingston, in his

SUPREMt COURT.
FEx parte Story.]

lifetime, filed a bill on the equity side, of the district court for the
eastern district of Louisiana,, against Benjamin Story; and at the
hearing of the dause, the court decided against the complainant, and
dismissed the bill This decree was passed.June 3d, 183'6. - On the
Ist of October, 1836, Louise Livingston filed a petition in the. district court, stating, that Edward .Livingston had 'died after, the suit
was decided, andhad by his wi l appointed her sole- executrix, and
proying leave t6 make herself a party, in. order to -appeal to this
Court. A copy of the will of E'dward Livingston was filed with
this petition, by which it appeared that she was the sole executrix.
Louise Livingstpn was accordingly -permitted to become a party, and
by her solicitor, appeared in -the. district court as complainant in the
character of executrix, and appealed to this Court; where the-cause
was heard at Janhary.term, 1837, and the decree 9f the district court
reversed, and the-casesent back, with a mandate from this Court-to
the court b.elpw, directing the further, proceedings -to be had in that
court.
It appears by the petition for the mandalnus, (which is verified by
affidavit,) and by the copy of the record from the court below which
aecompanies it, thft the mandate from this Court was ,filed in the-district court, March 2d, 1837; and proceedings were accordingly had
under the orders :of the district court, to carry into execution the directions contained in the mandate. Afterwards, the case'having
been transferred to' the circuit court, under the act of congress cr ating additional circuits, the defendant, on the 20thof Novembei,
1837, obtained h rule on the complainant to show cause why the bill.
should not be dismissed, or the suit -abated, upon the ground that Edward Livingston, the complainant in the original bill, died before the
hearing and decree in the district court in 1836; and also, because
the suit had not been-regularly revived by his executrix, the present
complainant, and could not be revived, inasmuch as she claimed as
devisee. On the 18th of December, 1.837, the rule abovementioned'
was. discharged; and the testimony offered to prove the facts alleged
as the fqundation of the rule rejected by the court. The defendant,
on the day last mentioned, further moved that he be permitted to
give evidence that Edward Livingston had left other heirs besides
Mrs. Louis6 Livingston, which motion was also overruled by the
court. The defendant thereupon tendered a bill of exceptions to
these opinions, hut the -eourt-refused to sign it. The defendant afterwards prayed leave to file. "a supplemental answer and plea," in

JANUARY ,TERM, 1838.

343

[Ex parte Siory.]

which he averred that Edward Livingston, the original complainant,
died on the 23d of May, 1836, which was some days before the decree of the district court dismissing his bill; and'also averred, that
he left a daughter, who was still living, and had an interest in the
subject matter in controversy; and plead the death of said Ed Ward
Livingston in abatement of the proceedings; and further insisted that
the suit had never been revived by Louise Livingston, who appears
as complainant; and that the daughter of Edward Livingston was a
necessary party; and that the court could not entertain jurisdiction
because she was not a party. The court refused to receive this
answer, or to permit it to be filed. The -defendant thereupon tendered another bill of exceptions, which the court refused to sign.
The defendant then moved the court to direct the clerk to state the
facts upon the order book, but the court-refused to suffer any notice
to be taken on the record of this proposition to file the supplemental
answer and plea; and a mandamus is now moved for, to compel the
judge to sign the exceptions, and to correct the record-, so as to make
the answer which defendant proposed to file, and the refusal of the
court to receive it, appear. on the record as a part of the proceedings.
We think there is no sufficient grounds for this application. A bill
of exceptions.Is altpgether -unknown in chancery practice; nor is a
court of chancery bound to inscribe in an order book, upon the application of one of the parties, an order *hich it may pass in a case
before it; and the facts which the defendant stated in the supplemental answer and plea which he offered, furnished no ground of defence
in the circuit court; when acting under the mandate of this Court,.and
carrying its directions into execution., In the case of Skillern's-Executors v. May's Executors, 6 Cranch, -267, this Court said, that as it
appeared that the merits of the case had been finally decided in this
Court, and that its mandate required only the execution of its decree;
the circuit court was bound to carry that decree into execution,
although the jurisdiction of the court was not, alleged in the pleadings. In the case' now before the Court,'the merits of the controversy were finally decided by this Court, and its mandate to the district court required only the execution of its decree. The case,
thereforte, comes within the principle of Skillern's Executors v.
May's Executors, and the facts stated by the defendant cannot, in
this stage of the proceedings, form any defence against the execution
of the mandate; and consequently he was not deprived of any legal

344

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Story.]

or equitable ground. of defence by the refusal of the court to suffer
him to file the supplemental answer and plea which he offered.
The motion for the rule to show cause, is therefore refused.

On motion for a- mandamus to the judge of the circuit court of the
United States for the eastern district of Louisiana. On consideration
of the motion made in this case by Mr. Crittenden, on a prior day
of the present term of this Court, to wit: on Saturday the 17th day
of February, A P. 1838, for a writ of mandamus in the nature of a
writ of procede lo, to compel the judge of the circuit court of the
United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, to sign the bill of
exceptions tendered to him .by the counsel for the appellee in this
cause, and to permit the record of the case "to speak the truth,' and
of the arguments of counsel thereupon had as well in support of, as
against the motion; it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
Court, that the said motion be, and the same is hereby overruled.

