SUPREME COURT

AMos

KENDALL,

POSTMASTER

GENERAL ONeTHE UNITED STATES,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. THE UNITED STATES, ON THR RELATION
OF WILLIAM

B.

STOKES ET AL.

Contracts for carrying the mail of the United States, were made by S. & S., with
the postmaster general of the United States, out of which certain allowances and
credits were made in favour of S. & S., by that officer; and the amount of the
same was passed to the credit of S. & S., with the general post office. The
successor of the postmaster general struck out the allowances and credits in the
accounts, and thus a large sum of money was withheld from the contractors. S.
& S. presented a memorial to congress; and an act was passed, authorizing and
directing the solicitor of the treasury of the United States to settle and adjust the
claims of S. & S., according to the principles of equity; and directing the postmaster general. to credit S. & S. with whatever sum of money the solicitor should
decide should be due to them. The solicitor of the treasury made a decision on
the claims of S. & S., and communicated the same to the postmaster general; who,
thereupon, carries to the credit of S. & S. a part, but refused to credit Lpart of
the amount allowed by the solicitor. S. & S. applied to the President of' the
United States, who referred the subject to congress; and the senate of the United
States determined that no further legislation on the subject was necessary, and
that the decision of the solicitor of the treasury ought to be complied with by the
postmaster general. The postmaster general continued to withhold the credit.
S. & S. applied to the circuit court of the United States for the District of Co.
lumbia, for, a mandamus, to be directed to the postmaster general, commanding
him to credit them with the amount found to be due to them from the United
States, according to the decision of the solicitor of the treasury. A peremptory
mandamus was finally ordered, and the postmaster general brought the case before
the Supreme Court, by a writ of error. By the Court-It has been considered by
the counsel on the part of the postmaster general that this is:a proceeding against
him to enforce.the performance of an official duty, and the proceeding has been
treated as an infringement on the executive department of the government; which
has led to a very extended range of argument on the independence and duties of
that department; but vhichb, according to the view taken by the Court of the
case, is entirely misapplied. We do not think the proceeding in this case interferes, in. any respect whatever, with the rights and duties of the executive ; or that
it involves any conflict of powers between the executive and judicial departments
of the government. The mandamus does not seek to direct or control the postmaster general in the discharge of his official duty, partaking, in any respect, of
an executive character ; but to enforce the performance of a mere ministerial act,
which neither he nor the President had any authority to deny or control. The
judgment of the circuit court was affirmed.
By the act of congress directing the solicitor of the treasury to adjust and settle the
accounts of S. &. S., the postmaster general is vested with no discretion or control over the decision of the solicitor; nor. is any appeal or review of that decision
.provided for by the act. The'terms of the submission was a mattdr resting entirely in the discretion of congress; and if they thought proper to vest such a

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]
power in any one,and especially as the arbitrator was an officer of the government;
it did not rest with the postmaster gencral to control congress, or the solicitor, in
that affair. It is unnecessary to say how far congress might have interfered
by legislation after the report of the solicitor: but if there was no fraud or miscon.
duct in the arbitrator; of which none is pretended or suggested; it may well be
questioned whether S. & S. had not acquired such a vested right as to be beyond
the power of congress to deprive them of it.
The right of S. & S. to the full amount of the credit, according to the report of the
solicitor of the treasury, having been ascertained and fixed by law; the enforcement of that right falls properly within judicial cognizance.
It was urged at the bar, that the postmaster general *as alone subject to the direction4
and control of the President of the United States with respect to the execution of
the duty imposed on him by the law under which the solicitor of the treasury
acted; and this right of the President was claimed as growing out of the obligation
imposed upon, him by the constitution, to take care that the laws be faithfully
executed. By the Court-This doctrine cannot receive the sanction of this Court.
It would be vesting in the President a-dispeusing power, vhich has no countenance
for its support in any part -ofthe constitution ; and is asserting a principle, which,
if carried out in'its results to all cases faling within it, would be clothing the
President with a power to control the legislation of congress, and paralyze the administration of justice.
To contend that the obligations imposed on the President to see the laws faithfully
executed, implies a power to forbid their execution; is a novel construction of the
constitution, and is entirely inadmissible.
The act required by the law to be done by the postmaster general is, simply to credit
S. & S. with the full amount of the award of the solicitor of the treasury. This is
a precise, definite act, purely ministerial; and about which the postmaster general
has no discretion whatever. This was not an official act in any other sense than
being a transaction in the department where the books and accounts were kept:
and was an official act in the same sense that an entry in the minutes of the Court,
pursuant to ar order of the Court, is an official act. There is no room for the
exercise of discretion, official or otherwise; All that is shut out by the direct and
positive command of the law; and the act reqiired to be done is, in every just
sense, a mere ministerial act.
The common law,as it was in force in Maryland when the cession of the part of the
state within the District of Columbia was made to the United States, remained in
force in the district. The writ of mandamus which issued in this case in the district
court of the District of Columbia, must be considered as it was at comirpon law,
with respect to its object a*nd purpose; and varying only in the form required by the
different character of the government of the United States. It is a writ, in England,
issuing out of the king's bench, in the name of the king, and is called a prerogative writ, but considered a Wkrit of right; and is directed to some person, corporation, or inferior court, reqdiring them to do some particular thing, therein specified, which appertains to their office, and which is supposed to be consonant to
right and justice : and where there is no other adequate, specific remedy, such a
writ, and for such a purpose, would seem to be peculiary appropriate to the present
case. The right claimed is just, and established by positive law; and the duty
required to be performed'is clear and specific ; and there is no other adequate
remedy.
The cases of M'Intire v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 504 and M'Cluny y. Silliman, 6 Wheat.

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United'States.]
349, have decided that the circuit c6urts of the United States in the several states,
have no power to issue a mandamus against one of the officers of the United
States.
The result of the cases of Mclntire v. Wood, and M'Cluny v. Silliman clearly Is, that
the' authority to issue the writ of mandamus. to an officer of tha United States,
commanding him to oerform a specific act, required by a law of the United
States, is within the scope of, the judicial powers of the United States, under the
constitution: but that the wholO of that power has not been communicated by
law to the circuit courts ofthe United States in the several states. It is a dormant
power, not yet called into adtion and vested in those courts. And there is nothing
growing out of the official character of a party, that WilI exempt him' from this writ;
if the act to be performed is merely ministeriaL
It is-a sound principle, that in every well-organized government the judicial. powers
should be co-extensive, with the legislative; so far, at least, as they'are to he enforced by judicial proceedings.
There is, in the District of Columbia, no division of powersbetween the general and
state governments. Congress has the entire control over the district fbr every
purpose of government; and it is r6asonable to suppose, that in organizing a judidial
epartment in this district'all the judicia power necessary for the purposes of
government would be vested in the courts of justice. The circuit courtin the
district is the highest court of original jurisdiction; and, if the power to issue a
mandamus in such a case as that before the Court exists in any court, it is vested
in that court.
At thp date of the act of congress establishing the government of the' District of Colurobia, the common law of England was in force in Maryland; and df course
remained' and continued in force in the piart of the:district ceded by Maryland to
the United States: The power to issue a mandamus in a proper case, is a part.of
the common law; and it has been fully recognised as in practical operatlon in a
case decided in the court of that state.
The power to issue the writ of mandamusis, in England, given to tne king's bench
only, as having the general supervising power over all inferior jurisdictions and
officers; and. is co-extensive with judicial power. And the same theory prevails
in the state governments of the United, States, where the common law is adopted,
and governs in the administration of justice; and the power of issuing this'writ is
generally confided to the highest court of original jurisdiction.
There can be n 4 doubt but that, in the state of Maryland, a writ of mandamus might
be issued to an executive officer commanding him to )erform a ministerial'act required of him by the laws : and, if it would lie in thaL state, tner6 can be no gbod
reason why it should not lie in the District of Columbia, in analogous cases.
The powers of the Supreme Court of the United States, and of the circuit courts of
the United States to issue writs of mandamus, granted by tlie.14th section of the
judiciary act of 1789, is only for the purpose of briqging the case to a final judgment or decree, so that it may be reviewed. The mandamus does not direct the
inferior court how to proceed, but only that it must proceed, according to its own
judgment, to a final determination; otherwise it cannot be reviewed in the appellate court. It is different in the circuit court of the District of Columbia, under
the adoption of the Ilaws of Maryland, which included the common law.
The power of the cirduit court of the District of Columbia to exercise the jurisdiction to issue a writ of mandamus to a public officer 'o do an act required of him
by law, results'from tle 3d section of the. actof congress, of February 27, 1801;

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]
which declares that the court and the judges thereof shall have all the power by
law vested in the circuit courts of the United States. The circuit courts referred
to were'those established by, the act of February 13th, 1801. The repeal of that law,
fifteen months afterwards, and after the circuit court for this district had been
Qrganized, and had gone into operation, under the act of 27 February, 1801; could
not, in any nianner, affect that law any further than was provided by the repe ling act.
It was not an uncommon course of legislation in the states, at an early day to adopt,
by reference, British statutes; and this has been the course by legislation in congress, in mnany instances, when state practice and state process has been adopted.
And such adoption h~is always been considered. as referring to the law existing
at the time of adoption : and 'no subsequent legislation has ever been supposed
to affect it; and such must, necessarily, be the, effect and operation of such
adoption.
No court can in the ordinary administration of justice, in common law proceedings,
exercise jurisdiction over a party unless he shall voluntarily appear, or is found
within the jurisdiction of the court, so as to be served with process. Such process
cannot reach the party beyond the territorial jurisdiction of the court. This is a
personal privilege, Which may be waived by appearance; and if advantage is to
be taken of, it, it must be by plea, or some other mode, at an early'stage of the
cause.

IN error to-the circuit court of the United States in the District of
Columbia, for the county of Washington.
On the twenty-sixth day of May, 1837, William B. Stokes, Rich,ard C, Stockton, Lucius W, Stockton,.and Daniel Moore, presented
a petition to the circuit court.of the District of Columbia, for the
county of Wasbingtoo, stating, that under contracts duly and legally
made 'by,them with the late William T. Barry; then postmastei general of the United States, and duly authorized by lair, they were
entitled to certain credits and allowances on:their contracts for the
transportation of the mail of the United States,; that the credits and
allowances were made and given to them .on their contracts, and
amounts of money actually paid on such accounts; that,some time
in 1835, William, T. Barry resigned 'his. situation as postmaster
general, andAmos Kendall was appointed to the office; that after
he had entered on the duties of his office, he uindertook to re-examine
the contracts entered into by his predecessor, and the credits and
allowances made by him; and ordered and directed the allowances
and credits to be withdrawn, and the petitioners recharged' with
divers payments they had' received.
The petitioners state that, they, vere 4issatisfied with these ptoceedings of Amos Kendall, a postmaster general; and, believing he had

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

exceeded his authority,,and being unable to adjust their differences
with him, they addressed a memorial to the congress of the United
States. A copy of the memorial was annexed to the petition.
The memorial stated, at large, all the circumstances which the petitioners considered as affecting their case; the proceedings of the
postmaster general in the matter; and the heavy grievances done to
the memorialists by the course adopted by the postmaster general.
They ask such proceedings on the part of congress as its wisdom
and justice may direct.
The petition states that congress passed an act, which was approved
by the President of the United States on the 2d of July, 1836, which
act provided, " that the solicitor of the treasury be and he is hereby
authorized and directed to settle and adjust the claims of William B.
Stokes, Richard C. Stockton, of Maryland, and Lucius W. Stockton,
and Daniel Moore, of Pennsylvania; for extra services performed
by them, as contractors for carrying the mail, under and by virtue
of certain contracts therefor, alleged to have been made and entered into with them by William T. Barry, late postmaster general
of the United States; and for this purpose to inquire into, and
determine the equity of the claims, of them, or any of them,, for
or on account of any contract or additional cohtract with the said
postmaster general, on which their pay may have been suspended by
the present postmaster general; and to make them such allowances
therefor, as upon a full examination of all the evidence may'seem
right, according to the principles of equity; and that the said postmaster general be, and he is hereby directed to credit such mail contractors with whatever sum or sums of money, if any, the said solicitor shall so decide to be due to them for or on account of any such
service or contract; and the solicitor is hereby authorized to take
testimony, if he shall judge it to be necessary to do so; and that he
report to congress, at its next session, the law and the facts upon
'which 'his decision has been founded: Provided, the said solicitor is
not authorized to make any allowance for any suspension, or withholding of money by the present postmaster *general for allowances
or overpayments made by his predecessor,. on route number thirteen
hundred and seventy-one, from Philadelphia to Baltimore, for carrying the mail in steamboats, when it was not so carried by said Stockton and Stokes, but by the steamboat company; nor for any suspension or withholding, of, money as aforesaid, for allowances or overpayments made as aforesaid, for carrying an express mail from Balti-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

529

[Kendall v. The United States.]

more to York or Lancaster; nor for any suspension or withholding
of money, as' aforesaid, for allowances or overpayments, made as
aforesaid, on route nfimber thirteen hundred and ninety-one, from
Westmintster to M'Connerston, as described in the improved bid;
nor for any suspension or withholding of money, as aforesaid, for
allowances or overpayments, as aforesaid, on the route from Baltimore to Wheeling, for running a certain daily line to Hagerstown and
Wheeling, from the first of September, eighteen hundred and thirtytwo, to the first of April, eighteen hundred and thirty-three, when
the line referred to only run tri-weekly; nor for any suspension or
withholding of money, as aforesaid, for allowances or overpayments,
made as aforesaid, on the route from Baltimore to Washington, under
the contract of eighteen hundred and twenty-seven: but nothing in
this proviso shall prejudice any application they may make, hereafter, in reference to these routes, if they shall think it proper to
make such application."
The petition states, that in pursuance and in t._;ecution of this act,
Virgil ,Maxcy, being solicitor of the treasury, did proceed to examine
adjust and settle the said claims: and on the 12th day of November,
1836, did make, out and transmit to the said Amos Kendall, postmaster general, in part, his award and decision upon certain items of
said claims so referred to him; and on the 23d of November, 1836,
he communicated to the postmaster general his decision and award
on the residue of the claims of the petitioners.
The decision of the solicitor of the treasury of the 1,2th of December, 1836, after stating the particular items of account, from which
the balances arose, was as follows:
"I, therefore, in pursuance of the authority conferred on me, by
the aforenientiofted act of congress, make, allowai~ce to said Richard
C. Stockton, for his said clains up to the 1st of April, 1835, of the
above sum of eighty-three thousand two hundredl and seventy-eight
dollars.
I, also, by virtue of the same authority, make allowance to said
Stockton, for his said claims for extra services, from the 1st of April'
to 31st of December, 1835, of the said sum of, twenty-six thousand
eight hundred and sixty-two dollars.
A claim for interest having been made, I have postponed the consideration of it until the equity'of the other claims of the gentlemen
VOL. XII.-3 X

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

named in the title of the act, shall have been inquired into and determined."
On the 22d of November, 1836, the solicitor made a final award,
which was also communicated by him to the postmaster general.
That award, after setting forth the items of the accounts presented
and established in 'the judgment of the soliitor of the treasury
against the United States, was,:.
"I ha've examined the evidence touching the above claims, and
find due to the petitioners, or to Richard C. Stockton, the following
sums: For additional daily mail to Washington, thirty-four thousand'
two hundred dollars. For compensation for carrying the mail in the
,spring of 1831, between'Baltimore and Philadelphia, and for other
services connected therewith, less two hundred and ninety-four dollars, the sum of eleven thousand seven hundred and ninety-seven
dollars and sixteen cents. Claims for interest, four thousand eight
hundred and thirty-six dollars and eighty-nine cents; one thousand
six hundred and sixty-four dollars and seventy cents, and three hundred and ninety-two dollars and thirty-four cents."
The petitioners state, that under, and by virtue of the award of the
solicitor of the treasury, they bechme entitled, to have the sum of
one hundred and sixty-two thousand seven hundred and twentyseven dollars and five cents carried to their Credit; or at least, after
allowing some deductions therefrom made by the saidsolicitor, with
their assent, the sum of one hundred and sixty-one thousand five
hundred and sixty-three dollars and eighty-nine cents, as the amount
of principal and interest due to them by the terms of the award and
decision.
But the said postmaster general, although fully notified of the premises, and after a considerable delay, only sokfar obeyed and carried
into execution the said act of congress and said award, as to direct and
cause to be carried to the credit of the petitioners, the sum of one
hundred and twenty-two thousand one hundred and one dollars and
forty-six cents, which said last mentioned sum of money has been
accordingly paid or credited to the petitioners" and he has from
that time, and does still refuse, omit, and neglect, notwithstanding
the provisions of said act of congress, and the said award and decision
of said solicitor of the treasury, so made, communicated and reported,
as aforesaid, to pay, or credit to the petitioners the residue of the
said sum so awarded, being the sum of thirty-nine thousand four
hundred and sixty-two dollars and forty-three cents; or to credit or

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

pay to the petitioners, or either of them, the. interest upon the said
balance so unjustly and illegally withheld.
The petition states, that after the refusal, omission, or neglect of
Amos Kendall, to execute his duty, by obeying the act of congress,
in passing the amount awarded'to his credit; the petitioners communicated, the facts of their case to the President of the United States,
requesting him to cause the said act of congress to be executed: who
thereupon, transmitted the same to Amos Kendall, the postmaster
general; and having received a reply to the same, stating why he
had thus refused to comply with the award; and suggesting an application to congress for further legislation. The president, in December, 1836, transmitted this reply to the petitioners; and in his communication says: "It appearing that there is a difference of opinion
between the solicitor and the postmaster general, upon the extent of
the reference under the law to the solicitor, the postmaster general
having yielded to what he believes to be all that was submitted by
the law to the solicitor's decision, and paid the same. But, congress
being now in session, and the best expounder of the intent and
meaning of their own law, I think it right and proper, under existing circumstances, to refer it to that body for their decision. I deem
this course proper, as the difference in opinion about the extent of
the submission, under 'the law, arises between the head of the post
office department and the solititor of the treasury; and, as it appears,
the solicitor has reversed, in part, his decision and award."
The petitioners, in consequence of this correspondence, presented
to congress a memorial; which, in the senate, was referred to the
.committee on the judiciary.
The petitiof refers to the reports of the judiciary committee of
tne senate, of January 20th, 1837, and February 17th, 1837, and to
the correspondence between the postmaster general and the chairman of the committee: copies of which are annexed to the petition.
The concluding part of the report of the judiciary cQmmittee, of
January 20th, 1837, was as follows:
"That congress intended the awaru of the solicitor to be final, is
apparent from the direction of the act, ' that the postmaster general
13e, and he is hereby, directed to credit such mail contractors with
whatever sum or sums of money, if any, the said solicitor shall so
decide to be due to them,' &c. If congress had intended to revise
the decision of the solicitor, the postmaster general would not have
been directed to make the payment, without the intervention or fur-

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

ther action of congress." Unless it appeared, which is not suggested
by any one, that some cause exists which would vitiate or set aside
the award between private parties before a judicial tribunal'; the
committee cannot recommend 'the interference of congress to set
aside this award, and more especially as it has becn made by a high
officer selected by the government; and the petitioners hve been
subjected to the trouble and expense of irivestigating their claims
before a tribunal created by congress itself.
"It appears that since the award was made by the solicitor, the
postmaster general has paid to the petitioners the sum of one hundred and twenty thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight dollars and
thirty cents, leaving the balance of forty thousand six hundred and
twenty-five dollars and fifty-nine cents unpaid of the sums awarded
in favour of the petitioners. From the view which the committee
have taken, the conclusion -at which they have arrived is, that the
whole amount decided to be due, and owing to the petitioners, by
the solicitor of the-treasury, ought to be paid to them out of the
funds of the post office department; aicording to the directions of
the act, enti 'ed ' An act for the relief of William B. Stokes, Richard C. Stockton, Lucius W. Stockton, and Daniel Moore;' and that
no further action of congress is necessary; therefore, the committee
recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
"Resolved,'That the postmaster general is fully warranted in paying, and ought to pay to William B. Stokes and others, respectively,
the treasury."
the full amount of the award of the solicitor of
The report of February 17th, 1837, on the message of -the president of the United States, of the 15th February, 1837, with the.accompanying documents in relation to the claims of Stockton and
Stokes and others, contain the following:
" The committee have considered the documents communicated,
and cannot discover -any cause for changing their opinion upon any
of the principles advanced in their former report upon this s.ubject;
nor the correctness of their application to this case.. They therefore
recommend the adoption of the resolution heretofore reported by
the committee."
The petition to the Court proceeds to state, that the principal
ground of the refusal, neglect, and omission of the postmaster general. to execute and obey the act of congress, and to give the petitioners credit for the full amount of the award of the solicitor of the
treasury; was, as represented by him, that the said solicitor had trans-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

533

[Kendall v. 'the United States.]

cended the authority created and conferred on him by the act, in so
awarding and deciding, whereas the contrary is the fact; and the
solicitor, on 'being apprized that a doubt existed as to the extent of
his authority, he did submit the said question.to the attorney general
of the United States, to obtain his opinion. The opinion Of the attorney Anet:ai, confirmed the construction of the law given by the solicitor of the treasury.
The petition proceeds to state, that the "petitioners conceiving
and believing that they are and have been entitled to the whole sum
so awarded by the said solicitor passed to their credit on the books
of the post office department, and to receive the amount which, after
the said ,entry,should appear justly due to them, with legal interest
upon the balance; have applied to the said Amos Kendall, postmaster
general, as aforesaid, to have the said credits, so entered, and the said
moneys so paid, which he has.continually refused, and stilf refuses
and neglects to do: and the congress of the United States will not
pass any other or further law, as it is believed, merely because they
have already passed one sufficient to neet the case; so that the only
means of obtaining the money which is jusfly due to the petitioners, is, by application to your honourable Court.
"Wherefore, your petitioners do respectfully pray that your honours, the preinises considered, will award the United States' -writ
of mandamus to be directed to the said Amos Kendall, postmaster
general of the United States, commanding him1. "That he Shall fully comply.with, obey, and execute, the aforesaid act of congress, of July 2d, 1836; by crediting your petitioners
with the full and entire sum so awarded, as aforesaid, in their favour,
by the solicitor of the treasury, as aforesaid; in conformity with said
award and decision.
2. "That he shall pay to your petitioners the full amourit so
awarded, with interest thereon, deducting only the amount which
shall be ju,§tly charged,or chargeable to your memorialists against
the same.'?
On the 26th May, 1837, the district court of-the county of Wash*ington made a rule in the case, on the motion. of the relators, by
their counsel: "That the said Amos Kendall, postmaster general of
the United States, show cause on Thursday, the first of June next,
why the said writ of mandanius should not issue, as prayed. by the
said memorialists; and that a copy of this order be served on the
said Amos Kendall, postmaster.general, as aforesaid."

-,UPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

A copyof the rule was served ,-s directed, and was so certified
by tl. marshal of the"District of Columbia. Afterwards, on.the
7th of June, 1837, on the motion of the relators, by their counsel;
the court *rdered a mandainus, nisi, to issue, directed to the postmaste geieral; which writ was issued on the same day.
The mandamus, nisi, after statingthe proceedings which had taken
place in the case, proceeded as follows: "Therefore you are hereby
commanded and enjpined, that immediately after the receipt of this
writ, and without dlay,,,you do fully comply -with, obey,-and execute on your part, the aforesaid act of congress, of, 2d July', 1836
by crediting said mail contractors with the full and entire sum so
awarded and deeided, as aforesaid, to he due to them by the solicitor of the treasury, according to the true intent and meaning of
the said award and decision; so that complaint be not again made to
the.laid'eircuit court: and that you certify perfect obedience to, and
due-executionof this writ to the said circuit epurt, on Saturday the
tenth day of June instant; or that you do at ten o'clock of that day,
show cause to' the said Court, why you have n4t so done as comn ended.'"

On the 1Oth of June, 1837, the relators, by their counsbl; and
'Amos Kendall,.by. h s counsel, appeared- in court; and further time
was" given, -rmotioti, to Amos Kendall to file his answer.
On the 24th day of June, 1837, the answer of the postmaster general was filed.
The answer contained the following causes "for declining.obedience to the order of the court;" with a full argument upon each
of th6m:
First. "It is doubted wlhethe, under the, constitution of the
United States, it confers on, the judiciary department of the go
vernment, authority-to control the executive department in the rexereise of its functions, of whatsover character.
Second. "If,, according to the constitution, the, circuit court jor
the District of Columbia might be clothed by law toissue a mandamusin such a case, no such power has been conferred upon them by
the act of congress.
Third. "If, by- the constitution, congress can clothe the courts
with authority to issue'writs, of-mandamus against executive officers,
aq such; and if they Rave vested the general power in this court
by law; this is not a case in which that power can be lawfully exercised.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall f,The Uited States.]

Fourth. "The court have ordered the postmaster general to perform a legal impossibility."
To this answer .of the postmaster.general, the opinion of the ittorney general of the United States on the whole of the case, and
sustaining the views of the postmaster general, was annexed.
On the 13th July, 1837, the circuit court ordered a peremptory
mandamus, to be directed to the postmaster gen~ral, to be issued.
The postmaster general prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr. Key and by Mr. Butler, the ,attorney general, for the plaintiff in error; and by Coxe and Mr. Johnson for the defendants.
Mr. Key, for the appellant:
The recprd presents a case of conflict between two of the gret
depositories of the powers of government given by the constitution.
The judiciary has assumed a power which the executive departmient resists. It is a power hitherto unknown to the judiciaryhitherto exercised by the executive alone, without question.
It is avast power. It annihilates one great department of the government in one of its appropriate functions, if. not all the departments; and vests, to a very considerable and undefined extent, all
power in another.
The court below denies that there, can be any such conflict. It has
not only assumed the power, but fortified it by the doctrine that it is
to be unquestioned and irresistible. When the court speaks, "it is
in the name of the United States," "it is the sovereign power that
speaks," and " commands the proper executive officers to execute
that judgment."
And this'doctrine, it is thought by the court, cannot be opposed "without invoking principles which tend to set the
executive authority above the restraints of law."
As the court has therefore not' merely assumed the powpr, but assumed it as a sovereign, making the assumption the proof of its supreinaey;, this doctrine, as to the effect of the assertion of the power,
may be considered as necessarily connected with that which relates
to its nature *and validity • and certainly, if such is the effect of the
power, it ought to be considered in such an inquiry.
We hold, that this doctrine, as :tothe effect of the power, is as indefensible as that which led to its exercise; that where the sentence of
a court is -brought to any other independent tribunal, to be carried

S5,36

5UPREMFI COURT.
LKefidall v. The United States.]

into execution, preliminary questions, from the nature of things, must
present themselves to such othertribunral, which it alone must decide
for itself; those questions are.: IS this sentence I am -asked to execute,
within or be ond the jurisdiction of the court pronouncing it? Is it
pron6unced judieliall. or extra-judicially ? If the former, further
inquiry is inadmissible,for it is to be obeyed; if the latter, unnecessary, for it is a nullity. We hold this principle as applicable to all
the distinct ibdependent departments of our government. We hold
that to prescribe limits to power is idle, if 'the holder is to be the
sole and unquestionedjudge of What the limits are,; if his possession of the power is conclusively roved by its assertion, he has unlimited power: and if any of the depositories of power under our
constitution-are placed on such an eminence, it is ,strange that the
framers of that instrument should have thought it necessary to make
it so complicated. For, if a safe depository of such a power was
four)d, the great 'secret was discovered; and the government might
have been made extremely simple.
He did not understand any'writer upon the constitution as having
sanctioned such a doctrine. On the contrary, he should show the
very highest authority for a directly contrary doctrine, that occa!sional conflicts and encroachments upon each other's sphere of powers
by the different departments of -the government, were exppcted to
arise; and, that it was thought a matter of security, that each was left
to the independent maintenance of its own rights, and bound by
duty to resist the invasions of the others.
Here' then is a conflict, an4 the parties to this conflict stand on
%round,of perfect equality; and the question is, where is the power,
ini dispute?
That bne of the partiesis a judicial tribu'nal, gives it no superiority.
It must show'its jurisdiction by something more than assuming it.
It it can show no other warrant *for it, its sentence is a nullity.
Yet it must be admitted, there is a presumption in favour of the
judiciary in such a contest. And it is a just one, arising from a
proper respect for judicial proceedings; andi a persuasion that as the
usurpation of power is the most unbecoming, obit is least of all to be
expected there,.
Vet nothing human is infallible, and it. may be found there. A
court vmay mistake in deciding upon the dxtent of its own powers, as
on any other, question., It may honestly believe jt has the power it

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendallv. The United Sta es]

assumes; and such no doubt was the case with tie court where this
controversy has arisen.
The executive department of the government, upon whom this
power was exerted, has felt bound to question it. IIt has used, the
means which the constitution aid the laws have given it to deterraine'the course which, under such circumstances, it ought to take;and cannot believe'that it would be justified in abandoning its duties
tothe power and control of .any other department.
We assert, theroefore, that judicial encroachment is 4s liable ,to
question as legislative or executive; and this power in%every department to defend itself4 arid'assert its own, indepehdence, we contend :is.the undoubted doctrine of the constitution. Certainly the
constitution has assigned"limits to the powers of all the departments!
and leaves each within its sphere independent. Certainly it is-silen't
as to any such poweeibeing vested in either,,aswould enable it without question, to encroach upon the powers of the others. He cited,
to show not only that it was competent for the executive department
of ,the government to resist, but that it was its duty to resist any encroachment by the judiciary': Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch, 269; 1
Wilson, 407, 410, 411; 'Federalist, 51, No. 34; 2 .Story, on the
Constitution,.-22, 23, 24; 3 Story, 458, 459; Elliot's Debates, Mr.
Madison's Speech, 378; Speech of Mr.. Ames, 397; .2 Dllas 410; 5
Wheat. App. 16; Patterson v, United States, 2 Wheat. 226.
He was gratified that the contest was brought here. Here, where
all encroachments upon the constitution would' be brought to the
same impartial test; where this high tribunal would'watch with
double vigilance, and rebuke with all its dignity, judicial encroachment; and he trusted it would be seen that this instance of judicial
wrong, would here receive judicial correction.
They would show, he thought, in this appeal, a case in which the
circuit court had assumed, for the first time, a power that had not
been and could not be given to it. He charged it as no wilful ujurpation; and believed. it to be only a most unfortunate dud' a most extraordinary error of judgment
That power, as appears from its application by the court and from
their:own statement of it, amounts to this: "The power to direct
and compel by mandamus the official'action of ,every public offrcer
wherein individual rights are concerned."
Such appears to be the principle from . the case to which it has
VoL. XII.--3Y

538

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

been applied. What is that case? He referred to the petition of the
relators to the court; t6 the act of congress foP their relief; 'their letter to the President; the President's letter to the relators referring
their complaint to congress; and -their memorial thereupon to congress.
These documents, exhibited by the relators themselves, show-that
when the postmaster general refused to allow them a further credit
on the award, they called on the:President, under his constitutional
power to take care that the laws'were faithfully executed, to require
the postmaster general to execute this law, by giving them the further credit required. And that, when the President took the case intq
consideration, he referred it to congress to pass an explanatory act;
and that one house of congress, the'senate, took up the case: and in
the anhe
petition;- will not pass any further law, as there
is already a sufficient one."" Now, this is the case of the relators by
their own showing. Where is it? Certainly r ot before the postmaster general. They appealed from his decision to the President;
and he referred it, as he had a right to do, to congress: aid the
relators acquiesce in this reference, and present their petition to
congress, and say, in their petition to the court, "that congress will
not pass another law ",
To whom, then, snould the mandamus go? if to any. The postmaster general was discharged of the case. It should go to congress,
,or to the President.
2. The court below say, "every public officer, who neglects or
refuses to perform a mere ministerial duty, whereby an individual
is injured, is legally responsible to that individual, in some form or
other; and a mandamus is one of the mildest forms of action that
can be used:" making the liability to action, which should of itself
prohibit the power of mandamus, the test of its correctness. They
say "every public officer," including the President.
Mr. Lee, in Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 149, says not though
the Court, in that case, say, "it does not depend on the office, but the
nature of the offence. As to the President, see judge Story's Constitutional Law, 3d, vol. 419; where it is stated that he is amehable
to no civil process, to an officer of any department, to the speaker
of the house of representatives, should he refuse to sign a lw. The
court asserts its right., to interfere with all those ,officers, as to their
acts of "nere ministerial duty.-'
Now, the remedy hyrmadamus isjust as applicable to their acts

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kiendally. The United States.]

of discretionary duty. So it appears in all the bbks on the subject
of mapdAmus. So in 19 John; Rep. 259. So this Court, in 9 Peters, 604,
When a'court has the power to order a mandamus, it goes,. by its
supervising authority to an inferior; and goes, and ought to go, as
well to enforce the discharge of discretionary duties as ministerial
duties: with this only difference, that the command g6es,,in the one
case, to 'do the prescribed ministerial act; and in the other, to proeeed and exercise the discretion, and do the act in the waythat discretion may direct it. , So that a mandamus is as applicable to
discretionary, as to ministerial acts; and in this case, if any mdfndamus could issue, it should have been, not to enter the 'particular
credit required, but such Icredit as the postmaster general should
consider the award of the solicitor authoi'ized:' for this would not
be a mere ministerial act, but one' requiring the exercise of discretion. It is the same as giving judgment oh an award, which
surely requires discretion. 9' Peters, 603, 604; 5 Binney, 104,
107.,

Ftirther: the principle of the court sanctioning this interference
with the officers of other Aepartments, "whenever individual rights
are concerned;" is official action, in which the public, as well as the
individual, are concerned. It waa not so.considered in Marbury v.
Madison. , That case only meant to allow it whereA here was'no
public, but only. an individual interest concerned.
The postmaster general, was to execute a law of congress affecting
individuals, and also affecting the' public.. That e cecution first required.of him to, examine the solicitor's award, and-'the act of congress, arid see if it was "so" awarded; that is, according to the terms
of the law. Then, whatever was "so" awarded, he was to credit in
his department, officially, so as to bind the government.
They were, therefore, -executive acts; and it is admitted, in the
court's opinion, ",that the, President was bound to see when he performed this act, and that he did it faithfully." But the court holds,
that this power of tha President gives him no o(her control over the,
officer than to see that he acts honestly, with proper motives; without any power to construe the law, and- see that the executive action
conforms to it: that is, the President is only to see to that which
he can never see, at least with certainty, the motives 6f his sabordindte; Ond is not to see to the conformity of the executive action to
the law prescribing it; which is the very thing he should se :, and can

540

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The Uniited Sttes.]

see, and for which he io responsible. This is quite inconsistent with
every opinion of every writer upon this subject; as in letters of Pacificus, 556, 557, 559'; Wilson, 404; Chief Justice Marshall's argument on thecase of Jonathan Robbins,.5 Wheat. Rep. 16 ; Judge
Story, 3 Com. 414.

Not only is it the President's duty to see -how the laws are executed: he is invested ;With discretion as to when they are to be
executed. All the laws of congress are to be -executed; but not at
one and the same time. - Some depend on. others. Some must be
postponed, and some executed with despatch. Various circumstances may occur to delay-the execution 'of a law; circumstances
which the executive department-alone can know. This'is stated'in
judge .ohnson's opinion in the Cherokee, case, 5 Peters, 1 ; and by
the Court, in 1 Wheaton 1.
Now the circuit court assumes to direct and control all executive
officers, in all these respects. It therefore assumes the power described, as "the power, to .direct and compel, by mandamus, the
official action of every public officer, wherein, individual rights are
concerned;" and that, where the President is admitted, in reigard to
such official action of the officer, to ,be bound by his constitutional
duty, to see that the Dfficer does it faithfully, and to determine when
he shall do it.
The attorney' general has defied, in, hi's opinion, that such a power
can be given to the courts. That denial we now maintaim
It cannot be -given to the courts, because it necessarily interferes 'with ttib power of control given by 'the constitution to the
P'resident. "Whenever a controlling power or power of appeal is
exclusively lodged in any person or, corporation, the. courtwill not
grant a mandamus. This is the case of visitors of colleges, or others
of Opiritual foundation." Rex v. Bishop of Chester, 1 Wil. 206 ;.'Rex
V.:;Bishop of Ely, 2 Term Rep. '290.
It,is impossible here to question the controlling power of' the
President over the postmdster general, as to the duty 'to which he is
to be compelled by this proceeding. Here is an act of congress,'
relating to the public money, and requiring the postmaster' general
officially to do a certain act ip relation to it. As to this act, the
President is 'b6und 'to have it executed. And 'the President, on
whom this responsibility is /ast, 'is armed by the constitution' with
full powers to enable him., to have it fully and faithfully executed'.

JANUARY- TERM, 1838.

541.

[Kendall v. The. United States.]

For if the postmaster general will not execute it as the President
thifiks 'ittight to be executed, and the President acquiesces in this
imperfect execution of it, then he violates his duty in having the
laws executed. If the postmaster general should think that he is
the judge, and that he ought not.to execute it as the President thin ks
it ought to be executed, he should resign; or the President should
remove him,'and appoint another, who will execute it.
The Pesident, therefore, on whom the responsibility of seeing
the laws faithfully executed plainly rests; has, under the constitution,
full power to fulfil the duty cast upon him, .and control the postmaster general in the execution of this act of congress. Therefore,
according to -the principle -above referred tW,'the court eannot interfere by mandamus.
Further: The nature of this control, and the consequences of affirming the power of the court thus to interfere with it, will show
the unreasonableness of the -doctrine.
What becomes of the President's responsibility to have the laws
of congress faithfully executed? Here is a law to be executed. The
President is about to have it done as congress meant it should be
done; but the circuit court of the District of Columbia,, intertose,
and command, by mandamus, that it shall be done otherwise. He
is impeached for. not doing it; or for doing it wrong. Can he de,fend himself by showing the mandate of the court?
And if the controlis with the court, ought they, not to be responsible for the execution of .the laws.? And are they?. And shall that
power, which is charged with the duty of executing the laws of congcess, beirresponsible ?
Again: It has'been shown that the constitution'casts'this, duty on
the President; makes him responsible, and, arms him with powers
to fulfil it. Not so, in either respect, as to the court. If they assume the duty, it is, by inference, from their power to try cases in
law and equity. No responsibility is pretpnded; for, no matter how
wrong. they may decide& thre is no ,responsibility for mistakes of
judgment. And they are armed with no powers to carry out what
they may command; it is-brututn fulmen.
Suppose a peremptory mandamus to be the result in this case. It
goes againstAmos Kendall, postmastcr general of the United .States.
He refuses obedience. They send an attachment for contempt.. It
goes against Amos Kendall,,(as before,) postmaster general of the

SUPREME COURT.
United States.

[Kendall v. The United States.]

He is brought before them, and committed. I4
then, the postmaster general of the 'United States is in jail, is he still
posimaster general? Or is his office vacant, and. must the President
appoint 'another? Certainly, if the controlling power is with the
court, this is what should be done; they would thus have the power
of removal. And they also ought to have the power of' appointment; for if they havc. the controlling power, they might get, (inthe
same way they get that,) °by inference, all power necessary to make
the controlling power effectual, so as to.. appoint such a successbr as
would carry their commands into effecf, in opposition to-that pfthe
President. If the court cannot do this, they would then see that
they had Undertaken to command what they had no legal power to
enforce'.
Is it not more wise and dignified for a court to decline giving a
command, which tbey see no law -has given them the necessary
power to enforce,; /and wait till they are invested with all the power
necessary to attain the end in view? Must not every:court declipe
a jurisdiction which the laws have not given thlem power to enforce?
If it be said that the President would be wrong, and arbitrary in
thus.resisting the court; the plaintiff says: that would depend upon
eertamiing where was the first wrong. If th. court uurped power,
ought not 4he President'to use his constitutional power'to resist it?
The late Chief Justice Marshall, in the case of Jonathan' Robbins, 5
Wheat. App. 16, says, that in such a case, it is thd duty: of the Pre'sident to resist; so says general Hamilton, in Pacificus; and Judge
Washington, as to the district court,' in 2'Wheat.
It may furtlier be supposed,. that the postmaster general, on receiving the peremptory mandamus, takes'another course. The command is to entep the credit to the relators for the amount awarded.
Suppose he enters it, in his own handwriting, as done by him, not in,
virtue of his office as postmaster general of the United States, but as
done -by command of' the circuit court, and so return's to the writ?
Would the court hold this a performance? And- then, What effect
would be given to the'entry in "he post office'? Would they pay a
credit appearing to be allowed only on the authority of the circuit
court? And if the paying officer refuses to pay, would'the court
enforce the payment?
Here, as to this matter of enforcing payment, whatever the' compliance may be with the present command, the court say they 'are
in doubt. Well may they doubt a power to. take the public money

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

out of the treasury, and make the United States suable in, this case'
of law or equity. But they doubt; and ought not the doubt, wheither they could arrive at the end, stop their setting out? What purpose is to be answered by having an entry made in a book, if ii may
remain there as a dead letter? If it is to be read and treated as an
entry made by an authority which is disputed; and , hich cannot be
enforced ?
The circuit court denied all this right of control in the President.
If he sees the iriferior executive officers acting honestly, he can look
no further. .'How, or when"they execute a law, are things he has no
concern with. It is impossible to sustain this 'position. The post
office, as established by congress, is an executive department of the
government.. The law of congress is conclusive- as to this; fdr it
gives him powers which could not be given according to the constitution, if he was not the head of an executive department.
As the'head of a' department that officer is, therefore, subject to
the power of the Presideht; "to call upon him for his opinion in
writing, upon any matter appertaining to the duties of his office."
This implies, plainly, that he is, as to these duties of his office, subject to the. President's control. For why should he. give any account of his opinions upon matters appertaining to -those duties, if he
is independent of the President? And why should the President
have the power of requiring such opinions as to his duties, but to ascertain how he means to execute these duties; and to enable him,'if
he finds he is about to execute alaw, or discharge any of his official
duties improperly, to direct and dontrol, and, if necessary, remove
him from office?
Arid this is' declaimed against as arbitrary power. It seemed to.
him directly the contrary. The President appoints these officers,
and can remove them at pleasure. This all admit. He administers
the affairs of government through them; and the presumption is, that
they will execute the laws and the duties of their respective departments, in the manner he approves. Now, who does not see that if
he can have his will this done by his subordinates, and escape all
censure and responsibility for what is dcoile wrong, by saying it was
done by them, and that they were independent of his control; his
power would be far more arbitrary, and more dangerous, than if they
were made subject to his control, and he responsible for their acts. The framers of our constitution were wise enough to see this, and
they have left him no ground for such an excuse; and the'people

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. TheUnited States.]

have always held him to this respon~ibility; and the opponents of
every administration have always charged the chief magistrate as
openly and distinctly .with the alleged wrongs of his subordinates, as
if their acts were purely his; and the supporters of no adninistration have ever pretended td defend, the President from any of the
alleged errors of his administration, on the ground that they were
not hjs acts, but the acts Of independent subordinates. And as long
as the government shall'last, this is the true constitutional giound,
and the ,only safe one on which those wJio administer it, must stand:
and was it not so, we should have the English maxim, that the king
can. do .rowrong,! made applicable to the ,President.
if the act in question affects the political powers of the President,
as giVen by the.constitution, the opinion in the case so much relied
on of Marburv v. Madison, is conclusive as to this control,; and
against the powerof congress to take it from the President and con:
fer it elsewhere. One of the: political powers or duties of the President, as given by the constitution, is to see that the laws are.faithfully executed; and both the late Chief Justice, in the chse of
Tohathan tobbins; .andMr. Hamilton, in the passage referred to, "a
the letters of Pacificus; say, that he, must ascertain. what the law
,means "must judge of it for' himself." The opinion in Maribury v,
Madison shows that there may be laws in the execution of which
thepublic is not directly interested, where only individual rights are
concerned. And such is the case mentioned of an individual's right
to a- copy of'a paper, on paying for it,.and the other 'similar cases
given in illustration of the principle. There are cases inwhich individual interests alotie are concerned, and therefore affect not the
political powers of the President.. But all lawB which affect the public, are political; and the execution of those laws, their faithful execution, as he thinks they ought to be executed, the President must
see to. And such are, all the 'cases given in 'that opinion, as illustrations of executive acts, wherein the control belongp to the President.
If it be said, as it has been in the court below, that this is an act
which affects only individual interests; we say the credit requited to
be entered in the, relators' account, which account must be stated as
having the credit,'makes a sum of money due to them which must be
paid out of the treasury; and therefore the execution of this act aff~ets
the public interest.
There are many reasons why such a control ought to belong to the
executive. and not to the courts. And first, the pover ought to be

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

545

[Kendall v. The United States.]

left with the executive, because from the organization of the government it has always exercised, it. It has length of time, continued
possession, and long and uniform usage to plead 'for it. This command, if it issues from the Court, is the m'st ihistance of such interference. The same lapse of time and continued usage that gives this
claim to the executive, should bar the judiciary. It seems hardly
possible to conceive how any court should possess such Ajurisdiction
for near forty years, and never be called on to exercl,vit till now.
How has it happened that all the claimants in such cases, and all the
lawyers tAnd courts of the United States sh6uld be ignorant of it ?
It cannot be said no such case has occurred, for every claim made
upon the government, and disallowed by the executive officers,
,might have been brought before the courts, as is the present one.
In the next place, the executive ought to have this power, because it
is executive in its nature. The executive is fitted to execute it, and
artped with means to execute it. It can always execute, it, (as executive' power always ought to be executed,) promptly, uniformly, and
in the time and manner that the public interests may require; and as
its means may enable it. The contrary of all thisik the case with
the courts. They are unfitted to wield'this power, because they
have not the, information of' the state of the executive, department;
its duties; the means within its control; and the variotus circumstances which may obstruct and delay executive action. And they
cannot get this information; for even if they bad a right to call for
it, they have not the time, unless they neglect their ordinary judicial
business, to acquire this kowledge of executive affairs.
Then the executive, when t has the necessary means, and it is
desirable to do-so, can act promptly. But the courts are trying .'Ca
case in law or equity," and that is a business which is never done
very promptly. Judicial robes are not the garments for quick action. Where the judgment or decree comes, it seems to be conceded there is an appeal to this Court, at the application of either the
claimant or the officer 1s this appeal to suspend the, execution of
the law, or the act of executive duty required.? If not, what is the
worth of the proceeding; and if it is, what lay not be the consequences of the delay?
Again, the executive acts uniformly throughout the Union; if that
department directs the action, all executive acts will be performed
alike; all the laws will be executed in the same way,
But. if the courts assume the power, they may (as they often do'
VoL. XI.-3 Z

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. Thd United Stgtes.]

differ with each otlier. A law may be :directed by the court in one,
state, to be' executed in one way; and, by the court in another state,
in another manner. It is true their differences may be settled by
appeal to the Supreme Court; but could d government be endured,
all whose laws or whose executive action, at the claim of any individual whb may conceive his interests affected, were liable to be
suspended till their judicial differences were investigated and decided ?
And further, if The inferior executive officers are subjected to this
double control, viz., that of the President and of the courts, bow are
they to serve these two masters? And if their commands differ,
which is to prevail?
The case of Marbury v. Madison, shows there can be no such
thing as this double control. It distinctly states that the act of dutysought to be commanded by the mandamus in that case, was one in
relation to which the President had no control over the officer: and
it as'distinctly admits that Where the officer is, in relation to the duty
sought to be enforced, at all subject to the control or direction of the
President, there the Court has no power to command him. In Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 209, the Supreme Court says: "It seems
that a power, to regulate implie, in its nature full- power over the
thing to be regulated, and excludes necessarily the action of all
others that would perform the same -operation in the same thing,'
Now, if the power to regulate is thus necessarily exclusive of all
other regulating power, a fortiori; a power to execute must be exclusive of all other executive power.
Let it be supposed that the act of congress now in question, provided, in the very words'of the constitution, "that the President
should see that this law was faithfully executed by the postmaster
general."
Would not this provision have given the control to the
President? And could the court, in that case, have interfered? And
is not the provision in the constitution, as effectual as it would have
been in the act?
The power in question cannot be given to the courts, because,
from the nature of the power, being the execution of a law which
concerns the nation, it is political ;power; 5 Peters, 20 and 30; and
belongs to the executive departm~ent;. has alwdys been exercised by
it, and never by the courts; is fit-for the executive, and unfit for the
courts; and being, therefore, executive power, belongs to that department. The executive power is vested in the President, and can-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendlall

.r.

547

The UWited States.]

not be vested elsewhere. Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304, 316,,320;
3'Story's Corn. 451, 340, 414.
Again,. it cannot be given to: the courts, because it is not judicial
power.
What power can be given, according to the constitution, to the
judiciary? Certainly none 'but what is properly judicial power
Can the power of supervising executive officers, and directing them
how and when they are to'perform executive acts, be judicial power?
There are -two remarkable instances of the judiciary declining to
exercise powers conferred 'Upon them. One, arose from the act of
cdngress authorizing the circuit eQurts to report to th.e secretary
,of the treasuy, the' names of persons entitled to be placed on the
peti&sion rolls. The opinions of the judges are in 2 Dallas, 409.
They thought this was not properly' of a judicial nature ; and that,
therefore, congress could not 'constitutionally confer it on the courts.
There is certainly no ,comparison as to the judicial iature of the
two powers, between the examination into a claimant's right to a
pension under the' laws of the, United States, and reporting its determination to the secretary of the treasury; and the power now in,
question. If this is prop'erly of a judicial nature, it will be difficult
to account for the nicety of the judges in declining the power given
by the act referred to.
The other instance, is mentioned by judge Story, in a notes in
page 420, v6. 3,'on Const. Law; and .refers to 5 Marshall's Lifg fWashington, 433, 441. It there appears that General Washington, as Prdsident, before he proceeded to the execution of the
treaty with France, of 1778, called upon the Supreme Court to expound it, and direct how it should be executed; and they declined
doing so, on'the ground that they could give no opinion but judicially,
in a case regularly brought before them.
Novy,'if tle judiciary has this supervising power over executive
acts, and can direct'the officers how they are to discharge them on
,the application of ay person, interested; it is strange, that when the
executive' calls upon the Court for its direction, it should be incompetent to give it. Can any reason be given, why an individual
claiming the benefit of executive action from an officer should
receive the aid of the court; and the officer when he asks it, be rbfused?
Nor are we left to conjecture what is judicial power. The con-

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

stitution defines it.

It says, "the judicial, power shall extend to all

cases in law and equity arising under the constitution, the laws of
the United States, and treaties," &c. A great deal, no doubt, has
been accomplished in the way of deriving powers from the constitution, in the way of construction; but the ingenuity that shall
acquire for the ftourts, from the power to try cases in law and equity,
the power to send any public officer to jail, unless he will discharge
his executive duties in the way the courts shall prescribe to him,
will very far exceed any thing that has yet been Attempted. It
does riot seem likely that the framers of this instrument were aware
that there could be a case in law or equity, that could be brought to
so strange a conclusion; otherwise, some provision would probably
have been made for supplyfing the place of the imprisoned officer.
And, as the officer, in such a case, whose disobedience, if it was conscientious, would not be guilty of an unpardonable offence, and ought
not to be imprisoned for life; some limitation would, probably, have
been attached to the period of his confinement.

But the court thinks ther'e should be little scruple in assuming
this authority, and no objection in submitting to it. 'That, "' as it can
only be 'used in cases where a duty is to be performed, and wlere
it is. still in the power of the officer to perform it, the cases cannot
be very nurherous."
With submission to the coutt, Mr. Key said, he coUld'not but
think otherwise. Let it be ornce established, that whenever a public
officer will not do what an individual, claiming 'inder "a particular
act of congress," or', "the general principles of law,". (for to this extent, according to Marbury. v. Madison, the doctrine goes,) may
require of him, this Court may take cognizance of the case, and
compel the officer to do the act; and the cases for such -interference
will be innumerable.
What are most of the cases brought before the legislature at
every session of congress, but claims of"this description? Claims
arising for compensation for services rendered, or losses sustained;
and claimed under some " particular act of congress," or " the
general principles of'law," and which the officers of governmefnt
have refused to allow, All the claims spoken of'by judge Story, in
his Commentaries, pages 538, 539,,540, 541, are of this description;

and are spoken of as being without this or any other remedy: and
have always, by all, been so considered.
What is the present case but a claim arising under a particular act

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

of congress ? And Was it not the same before this particular act of
congress of the last session was passed? Was it not originally a
claim for services under a contract with the postmaster general,
under the post office laws, a particular act of congress? When it
was disallowed, might not the ,claimants have brought it here as well
under one act as another? as well under thd post office law, without.
going to c6ngress, and getting the special act under which they now
claim, if they had onry'known of this supervising jurisdiqtion of the
court they now invoke. And if this is a tase now for the exercise
of this jurisdiction by the circuit court, and was so when the claimants carried it, in their ignorance , to congress; what claim can there
be, affecting individual rights, that arises under "an act of congress," or under " the general principles of law" where the public
officers disallow it, or refuse or delay to, act on it, that is not also
such a case?

The court speak in, their opinion of this. remedy by mandamus
against public officers, commanding them how and when they are to
perform their executive functions, .as the "mildest" and the "bdst"
form of proceeding; and think, that "the 'officers will be. less harassed by it than'by the usual forms.of action" for injuries to individuals. -Itwould certainly be not only the- mildest and the best,
and the least harassing to the officers, but quite agreeable provided
they should think it their dfity not to do their duty, but to let the
court do it for them, and obey their commands: -but, if they should
think it their duty to act and think for themselves, and that the
court had nq right to think and act for them, 'and that' what the
court commanded was contrary to their duty, and. should do their
duty,. and not the command of the court; then it would not be so
agreeable a remedy; unless they should, think retirement in a prison,
during the pleasure of .'the court, more agreeable than the cares of
office.

He would beg leave tO ask the Court to compare what is thus
said, with What was said here in the case of M'Cilun v. gilliman, 0
Wheat. 605. This Court thinks exactly otherwise of this remedy;
as being (even if the laws allowed it) the worst and the most harassing, and in avery way the most improper. And whatever the officers might think of'a remedy that seems so pleasant to the court,
the public might not find it agreeable to be paying officers their
salaries. for attending to their business, while they were enjoying this
"o.tium cum dignitate" under the sentence of a court.

SUPREME CORT.
[Kendall v. Thi United States.]
The e'rcuit court relies, on passages' extracted from Marbury v.
Madison as a refutation 'of the attorney, general's' opinion, denying
the power of congress to give the power claimed in this instance to
the courts; and these dicta are'bssqomed as settled decisions, and also
is their' chief, if not sole authority for assuming the powerl,
That there Are some expressionsin that case that,,seem to favour
some of the positions taken by the circuit court, may be admitted.
That they sanction.,their assumption of the jurisdiction, we deny.
How far are they exarnin~able? Are they authoritative decisions?
We respectfully say not. If not touching the point in'controversy,
nor .necessary -for' its'decisibn, they may be examined, And this
Court has decided that therek are such expressions in that case. Attoiney General's Opinioli, 29; 'Cohens'v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 399,
400; What was the point to be decided? The co nstitution~lity of
the law of congress was the first question; -and the point of jutisdiption thus arising' and being settled against the jurisdiction, all
else is dietuin, and extrajudicial. Every thing 'else then' is" examinable..
In Cohens v. Virginia,6 Wheat. 399, 400, it is admitted that there
ared'idta'iin that case, and one of them very near to the point de'cided is overruled.
Ii Wheelwright v. Columbia Ins. Co. 7 Wheat. 534, anotheris
rejected. Another at the cldse of page 167, 1 Cranch, is directly op,
posed by the argument'in Jonathan Robbins' case, in, page 16 of App..
to 5 Wheat.; and not reconcilable with 9 Wheat. 819, and'6 Peters,
465; and another (that which states the remedy by action as making
a mandamus improper) is directly repudiated by the circuit court in
their opinion in this case.
Marbury v. Madison, therefore,: settles no other question than
that which arose as to the jurisdiction. And the whole course of the
court, and its settled and repeatedly declared doctrine is, that any
opinions given on the merits of a case where a question as to jurisdiction arises, (unless where 'the jurisdiction is affirmed,) ar6 hot
only dicta, but extra-judicial. The fblqowing cases will Snow the
strongest expressions of the .ourt against entering upon any questign, until that of jurisdiction- is' so decided as to make their consideration necessary to the determinatiom of the cause. 2 DalI. 414; 5
Marshall's Life of Washington, 443; Unifed-'States v. Moore, 3
Mason,
Cranch, 172; 'Bradley v. Taylor, 5 Cranch, 221; Wilson v.:
1 Cranch, 91'; Osborn v. The Bank of U. Si 9 Wheat.; Cherokee Na-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

551

[Kendall v. The United States,]

tion v. Georgia, 5 Peters, 15, 21, 31, 51; Ex parte Crane, 5 Peters,
200.
If the case of Marbury v. Madison had been regarded by the
circuit court as authoritative throughout, it would have supported
the attorney general's opinion. The act sought to be enforced in
Marbury v. Madison is plainly distinguished from the one now in.
question. There, ah executive action had ceased, nothing official
was to be done; and Mr. Madison was merely the holder of a paper
to which the relator was entitled by his appointment , whether he received the commission or not. He was appointed *by the signing
and sealing of the commission. "No other solemnity (say the court)
is required by law; no 'other act is to be pcrformed or done on the
part of the governnent. All that the executive can do to invest the
person with his office is done." So that whether he got the commnis'sion or -not, he had the office without it.
There was a case, then, in which, as the Court understood it, (and
whether correctly or not is immaterial,) there was no executive act to
be done. " It respected a paper, which, according to. law is'upon
recoi'd, and to a copy of which the law gives a right on the payment
of ten cents."
It is an act on which "individual rights' dependl."
This is the description of the nature of the act which the Court say
may be thub enforced. Certainly, nothing like this can be said of
the act now sought to be enforced here.
But this is not all, The Court contrasts with this act they have
thus described as fit to be enforced by mandamus, other acts, in relation to which it admits there can be no such proceeding. What
are they? They will be,found a perfect description of the act now
sought to be enforced. The Court say, page 166, "By the constitution of the United States, the Presidenf is invested with certain important political powers, &c.; to aid him in the performance of these
dutie he is authorized to appoint certain officers, Who act by his authority, and in conformity with his orders. In such cases, their acts
are his acts," &c. Here is a fair description of the act now sought
to be enforced by the postmaster general. Among the important political povWers vested in the President, one of the most important is
to see that the laws be faithfully executed;' and consequently this law
that the postmaster general is now to be made to execute. That officer has been appointed by the President, to aid him in his duty of
having the'laws faithfully executed, by executing those that belong
to his department. His acts are therefore the President's acts. And

552

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v,The UnitedStates.]

this act, (unlike the act to be enforced in Marbury v*.Madison,) is
'ne which falls within the political po'wers invested in the President.
Againit: is said offhese acts which cannot be. enflrced, that "the
subjects are political. They respect the nation, not individual rights,
and,-being intrusted to the executiv,*the decision of the executive
is.conclusie," 166. Now the execution of a law of'cougress, in
which the public is interested, is political; it respects the nation,
not individual rights solely.
Here is a strong mark Of distinction between the act in this case,
and the act to be enforced in .Marbury v. Madison. In this ease,
an entry of a credit is to be made in the books of the nation against
the nation. It, Of -course) respects the nation. In that case the act,
the, delivering of the commission the officer being already appointed without, it, and .entitled. to his office without it, did 'not respect
,the nation, but the in lividual only. That this is the meaning of the
Court; that, When they say "they respect the nation, pot indi vidual
rigbts," they man not individuel rights solely, is obvious from
another pasge in page 170. The Court say, "that it may be considered by some as an attempt to intrude into the cabinet, and to intermeddle with thie prerogatives of the executive. It is scarcel'y
necessary'for the, Court to disclaim all pretensions to such a jurisdiction: An extravagance so excessive and absurd, could not have been
entertained'for a moment. The province of the Court is, solely, to
decide on-the rights of individuals; not to inquire how the executive.
or executive officers perform duties' in which they haVe .a discretion.'
It seemed to himimpossible to. avoid seeing the likeness between
the acN described'by- the Court, as those in which it could not iiiterfJre, and the act now s6ught to be enforcea in this case; and the unlikeness between the acts described by the Court as proper for the
exercise'of the powet, and the-act now in question, and sought to 'be
enforced against the postmaster general. If the liability to impeach,nent is considered, it seems clear that in relation to'any laws reipecting the public, (thotgh they may also, respect individual rights,)
the President may be impeached for malexecutipn. Could the courts
then assume the direction of the execution of 'such a law, and the
President be still so liable?
Such cases would conic here. And yet the Chief 4ustice would
preside on the trial of the impeacbment,:who would, have tried the
question as to how the law should be executed here..

JANUARY TERM,

8S.

[Kendall v. 'The United tateg.]

A concluding remark as to this case may be 'made here; 'though
applicable to the remaining question as to whether congress has
given the circuit court this jurisdiction.
When was the jurisdiction, if ever, givenf? It is said, in 1 01,
bfore'the. case of Marbury v., Madison. The circuit, court haA
the jurisdiction then, if it'has if now; and this, Courtwasn ot un cquainted with its jurisdiction, nor were the learned and- experienced
counsel of Marbury. It is asked, why, wheii ever3 question of law
necessary for his success was settled hb; this Court, was not the application made there then? But, is it possible to believe that this
Court would'then have discussed these questions, if it had believed
the case could have been. taken before the Circuit court, so as, in,
effect, to have tried for the circuit court, questions of which it could'
not itself take cognizance?
He thought he' had now shown that the power in question wks
executive power, n6t judicial; and that, by 'the constitution, it belongs to the prasident and could not be given by congreostp the
courts.
Butif he had not succeeded in this, he thought he might at least
insist, that,'as it was a power hitherto' exercised by the executive
department, and notby the courts, and as he thought it must be a&mitted .to be more fit for the executive than the' judiciary, it ought
not to be assumed by the courts as given by inference, by construing
generil words in an act, as having, in the court's opinion, that meaning. A clear, distinct positive law, admitting of no reasonable doubt
as to its meaning, ought to be the sole warrant for the exercise of
such authority. He was sure there was no' such warrant here, no
such, clear, plain grant of the power to the court; and for this he
could appeal to the learned court below, and to the able and ingenious counsel' for the' relators;, one, or the other of whom, 'undoubtedly had failed to see it. For this case had been attended by this
most remarkable circumstance: That the court, were invited to assume this jurisdiction 'by the relators" counsel, as appears in their
printed arguinent (now before him) upon grounds, all of which the
court: considered to be insufficient; forthey adopted none of them;
and this could hardly have happened where the power was clearly
given. And the court then assumed the jurisdiction upon a ground
which did. not appear to'the opposite counsel, as of any account; for
their argument contains not'a hint of it; and this, to6, could hardly
VOL. XIL-4 A

554

SUPREME COURT.

The United Ptates.]
have happened where[Kendallv,
the power was clearly given.

So that he had,
it in his pbwelto say (what he never remembered to have had it in
his power to say in any case before, and What seemed to him almost
to supersed6 the necessity of saying any thing else,) that the grounds
upon which the jurisdiction was claimmed by the counsel, are insufficient,'according to the opinion of the court; and the ground upon
which it is assumed by the court, insuffipient, according to the opinion of the counsel.
,Surely he might say, in such a state of things, that this was a,
power not clearly given by a law; and not even clearly got by construction.
In the printed argument for the relators, he observed that the
to,
fifth section of the act establishing this court is not 'once referred
as giving the jurisdiction in question; the'third section is alone relied on, as referring to the act of 13th February, 1801, considered,
though'repealed as to the other circuits, as being 9till in force here.
The court, in its opinion, although this act of 13th Februar-y is recognised as unrepealed here, say not a word signifying their taking
the jurisdiction under any of its provisions; but rely exclusively'on
the fifth -section-of the act :establishing the court. Yet, he admitted
it was possible,'(though certainly in the highest degree improbable,)
true ground of the jurisdiction assumed, might have escaped
theresearches
that
all the
of the counsel and. of the court, in the first instance;,
and only be discovered finally, when 'all other grounds appeared
unavailable. He. would only -say that if this should prove to be successful, the relators were most fortunate litigafits.
They presented their claim to the remedy they sotight on one
ground, (the thirdlsection of the act Iof 27th February, 1801, refering to the act of the 13th February,,1801.)' And, the court, having
previously, decid'ed in United States y. Williams, that they could not
assume any jurisdiction on that grouad, Mssume it on. andther, (the
fifth section; and appear to pjace their decision on the difference between the terms. case and &uit.) This was being very'fortunate.
But this was' not all.. The ground' on which the court, asshme it,
viz, this difference between case and' suit,-is found to be opposed
-by the Supreme Court, in 2 Peters'464; and Judge Story, 3 Coim.
507.
Ana then the relators' counsel light upon another ground for sustaining the jurisdiction asqumed, viz: the words "concurrent with

JANUARY TERM, 1'898.
(Kendail v. The Unitod'Stttei.]

the courts of the several states," which are, found ,n the eleventh
section of the judiciary act; and r considered aslimitingthe jurisdiction of the other t circuit courts, the"absence of which words from'
the fifth section of the act of 21th February, 1801, are held to, invest.
the circuit court of this district with the jurisdiction in question.
He should not think this ground required any particular examioation wasit not that it appeared now to be the only one on Which
,thisjurisdiction could be expected to stand.
Heshould proceed, therefore, 'to examine b0th the third and fifth
sections, of the act of 27th February, I801,' establishing'the -circuit
court of this district;:under one of Which it is incumbent for th
relators to show the jurisdiction they haye invoked to be given..
It is settled by the cases of Wood v. M'Iotyre, 7 Cranch, 504,
and M'Cluny v. Silliman, 6 Wheat. 598, and 1 Paine, 453, that this
jurisdiction is 'not given to the othpr circuit courts by the eleventh
section of the judiciary act. Therefore, it must be shown, that one
or th other of these sections gives a broader jurisdicion to,the circuit court of this district, than is given by the judiciary act to the
other circuit courts.
First, as to the third sectioni This gives to. the .court and .the
judges thereof, here) the: same powers then v ested by law in 'the
other' circuit, courts and, the judges thereof; an.d the argument is,
that as the att of 13th February, 1801), (since repealed by. the act -of
March 8th, 1802,) was then in force, all the jurisdiction then vested
by. the act of 13th February, 1801', was vested in this. Court: and
that as the act of March 8th, 1802, only repealed the act of 13th
February, and not the act of 27th February,,1801; all the jurisdic.
tion thus given by: that act to this court, was unaffected by .thp
repeal.
It admits of several answers :
First, This section sh~tld be expounded, according to the plain
intent of congress, to give the court and its judges here the 'same
powers with the other circuit courts not at any. particular time,'but
at all times.
Second. The act of-8th March, 1802, not only repeals the act-of
13th February, 1801, but re-enacts the judiciary act of '1789; and
that re-enactment repeals all laws iniconsistent with the act of 1789,
thus re-enacted; and consequently all such parts of. the act of 27th
February, 1801, as gave, by reference to the.act of 13th February,
powers differing from those givqn by the act of 1789.

SUPREME. COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

tut if this act was unaffected by the act of 8th March, 1802, the
eqnstruction attempted to *begiven to this section, could not be sustained. We are referred by it to the act of 13th February, 1801, for
the powers of the courts. Must we not look for that section in it
which relates to the powers of the courts? We find such an one,
and it refers us again to the act of 1789, So that the powers then
vested by the act of 27th February, 1801, in this court, are the powers given by the act of 1789. And that act, it is conceded, has been
settled as giving neither power nor jurisdiction to issue a mandamus
in such a case.
When, then, ,we are sent to the act of 13th February, for the
powers of the court, and the judges, can we pass by the section that
relates expressly to'that subject, and'go to the one that relates. to the
jurisdiction'of the courts.- If there Was no section to be found in the
act of 13th February relating to powers, there might be some little
excuse for saying that you might go to the section providing the
jurisdiction; but, as therd is a distinct section giving powers, you
can, by no rule of construction, go to any other.
And it is a fallacy to say powers and jurisdiction mean the same
.thing; for if they might have such a meaning elsewhere, they cannot 1here, 'in an act which contains a distinct section for -each. In
each of those acts, that of 1789, that of 13th 'February, and of the
27th February, there are distinct sections; one giving powers, and
the other jurisdiction. And if in this act, the third section; by giving powers gave also jurisdiction, as pretended, why should the fifth
section give jurisdiction over again? Such a construction strikes the
latter section out of the law.
And they do not mean the same thing; jurisdiction refers to the
n
cases and persons over'wh9m
the court is to have cognizance; and
powers,-to the means given to exercise' its jurisdiction. And this
distict -and precise meaning, is manifestly that in which the -terms
are -used in all these acts.
If such a construction could be sustained, and the circuit court in
this 'district, by thus having the, powers given by the act of 13th
February, could be considered as thus having the jurisdiction given
by that act, and that jurisdiction was as extensive as is cbntended,
how are we to account for its never having been exercised; for its
being discoveted'only now, that this court has a jurisdiction denied
to all theother courts?, NQ case has been brought here of its exercise; though hundreds of caseslike th6 present are now before con-

JANJARY 'TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

gess, which the claimants have never imagined they could bring
before this or any other court. And no instance of the exeicise .of
any jurisdiction under this act of 13th February, can be shown in
the circuit court. 'And on the contrary, the circuit court in December. term 1834, in the case of The United States v. Christina
Williams, when this third section was brought before them, after
argument in a deliberate written opinion, as we show in judge
Cranch's notes of the case, disclaimed, expressly, all jurisdiction
under it; saying: "this court talkes its powers under the third section, not its jurisdiction."
The court below, therefore, was right in rejecting this grotnd
thus presented by the relators" counsel, for taking the jurisdiction;
and in saying, as they do in their first opinion after the first argument, "the court takes itspowers by the third section, but its jurisdiction by the fifth."
2dly. It remains now to be seen, whether the court has been more
fortunate in selecting the fifth section as'their grqund, and their only
ground for assuming the jurisdiction.
Here, as it is admitted to be settled that the eleventh section of
the judiciary act does not give this jurisdiction, it must be shown
by our adversaries, that there is a difference between that section;
ani'd the fifth of the act of the 27th February, §o that the jurisdiction
denied by the one, is given by the other.
Comparing these two sections, omitting all immaterial terms, we
find that by the eleventh section of. the judiciary act, the circuit
courts of the United States are to take cognizance of all suits in law
or in equity, "concurrent with 'the courts of the several states."
'And, by the fifth section of the act of 27th February, the circuit
court of this district is to take cognizance of all cases in law and
equity% As it is now not questioned, but that by 2 Peters, 464,
and 3 StOry's Coin. 507, it is settled that there isno difference between the terms "case" and "suit;" the only remaining difference
rests on the words, "concurrent with the courts of the several
states," contained' in onb statute, and omitted in the other. And
the jurisdiction isnow assumed by the court below, on the force of
these words alone.
This obliges the court to mantain these two propositions:
1. That these words limit the jurisdiction of the circuit coutts, to
such suits, or cases in law, or equity,-as the courts of the several.
states then had cognizance of: and,

SUPREME COURT.
[Kenidall v. The United States.]

2d, That the courts of thie several states 'had no.jurisdiction of
cases in law or equity-, arising ulnder the constitution and laws .ofthe
United States; of which two propositions, the only. difficulty, is to
say which is the most untenable. .1Trom them, however, they con,
clude. that the United States' circuit courts have' no jurisdiction in
eases of law-'and equity, arising under the constitution and laws of the
U-nited States. And this; they think, must have been the ground
upon which this Court, in the two cases 'referred to,-have denied the
jurisdiction of'the circuit courts to issue- a mandainius to an executive
officer. He would undertake to deny both the. premises fromwhich
this conclusion, was drawn. Thaf this Cburt laid down no sueh preraises, and- drew no such conclusion;, wasobvious from the cases referred-to,.
1., Did congress mean, by these 'words, to confine the jurisdiction
of the United States' circuit courts to'such cases of law and equity,
as the courts of the several states then had cognizance of?
What is the language? They shall take cognizance of all cases in
law or -equity, " cowcurrent 'vith the courts of the several states.'
:And this means, it is said, that they shall take cognizance, not of all
eases in law or equity, but of such only as the courts of the- several
states then had cognizance.
This,was surely a strange mode of expressing such a meaning.
The argument is,' that as, they were to take a jurisdiction concurrent
with the state. courts, congress meant they should only take what
the state courts then had; and that the positive words, that'they slall
take cognizanceof "all. cases in law or equity," are to be controlled
by 'the inference' 'arising from 'the others. But, surely the court
should have construed the law so as to give more effect to the express words, than to, the' inference; and say, they must take jurisdictionof "all eases in law or equity," (a jurisdiction which. congress could give,) by force of those &xpress'words; and the words
"concurrent with the courts of the.several states," are to operate to
show that congress meant not to give the jurisdiction exclusively (as
they'could have done,) of'the state courts. ''It is clear, that if congress did. not mean this, but intended what the court below has sppposed, it would have been easy to have said, instead of ."all .cases,"
&c., "such cases," .&c., as. those state courts had cognizante of.
The judiciary act shows in this, and several other sections, that congress did intend to give some portions of jurisdiction to the United
States''coufts, exclusively of state courts, and other 'portidus concur-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

rently with the state courts; and the constitution has been always so,
construed, as to admit the power and the propriety' of doing so by
congress. 'This- is the interpretation of that part of the constitution
given by General Hamilton, in the eighty-second letter of th6 Federalist; and by this Court, so also. in Cohen v. Virginia, 396, 397,419.
Cited, Bank v. Devaux, 5 pranch, 85; 3, Story's Com'. 619,.620,'
621,.622; and Houstoh v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 27, 28; 3 WheaLt.221;
1 Kent, 539, 96, 97,342, 43) 319.
The language, therefore, used by congress does not admit of such
a construction.
And if the act could be codstrued with this restriction of thg circuit courts to the jurisdiction of the :state courts; it may be asked,
does it mean all of them;- and :if
not, which? For we all know they
greatly differed.
This law, it is known, was reported by a committee of congress,
composed of eminent professional- mn, many of whom had assisted
in torming the constitution, and one of whom was from each state.
They, therefore, well kiew the great differetices of jurisdiction with
which the different states had invested their tribunals: and if-the irttention was that the United States' courts should have the same jurisdiction that was given to the courts of the states where they were
respectively held; then it would follow, that the federal courts would
not have the same jurisdiction every where, but would differ with
each other as the state courtsdid.
Congress cannot be supposed to have meant that: and it is' settled
that they did not so' mean tlat their 'jurisdicti6ns every Where are
the same. Livingston v. Story, 9 Peters) and the casca there cited;
and Federalist, No. 82.
The Federalist,,No. 82, shows that 'all these _couits have in all
the states the same legal and equitable jurisdiction, without any reference to, the varying jurisdictions of the state courts. The first
proposition then, that the United States'- courts'took only the juris.'
diction of the state courts cannot be shstained.
Not' is the court below sustained in their second propbsitiori, that
the courts of the states have no jurisdiction of cases in law or equity,
arising under the constitution and laws of the United
States.
,
of the
It would be most strange if it was so; for the constitution
United .States, art. 6, see. 2, declares that" this constitution, and the
laws of th'eUnited States- which shall be made in pursuance thereof,,
and al treaties, &c., ehall be the suprerhe law of the Jand; and the

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v; The United States.]

judges'in every'state shall'be bound thereby,-any thing -in the constitution or laws of any state to the contrary,'notwitnstanding."
Now, if any state court, having, by the laWs-of the state, jurisdiction
over'all cases of law and equity, should be applied to, to take jurisdiction in a case -of law or equity arising under the constitution or a
law of the Uoited'States, which is binding on them as their supreme
law, on what possible ground could they decline the jurisdiction?
A case in law or equity may undoubtedly arise
under this constitution, or a law of cohgress, or a treaty made 'in'
pursuance, of its authority, as well as under any other law; and if so, all courts ,having
jurisdiction in cases of law and equity, must entertain the case.
When a case is said. to arise under the constitution or a law of the
United States, is settled in' Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 378: and
what are all the cases where the right of appeal is given by thejudiciary.act to this Court from the. state courts, but casesarising
under
the constitution and laws of the United States,?
Not a word from the Court, nor fromany writer upon the.constitution, or the jurisdiction of our courts, has been mentioned as giving
any countenance to this new construction. They appear never to
have entertained an. idea of, this limitation'upon the circuit courts.
He' would refer to the 15th chapter, of Sergeant's Constitutional
Law, 2d edition, 123; 3 Wheat. 221; 4 Wheat. 115: and the act of
congress'of 26th of-May, 1824, establishing the courts of Florida,
which recognises the circuit courts as having by the judiciary act
jurisdiction of cases arising under the constitution and' laws of the
United States. See American Ins. Co. v. Canter, 1 Peters, 511.
According to the.two propositions maintained by the court below,
it would follow that cases' in law and equity, arising under the laws
and constitution of the United States, could not be tried any where:
for the Court say the state courts could'rot try them, and the United
States' courts have onlythe same'jurisdiction, that is, no jurisdiction
over such cases;
Neither of these propositions, therefore, can be sustained. And if
they could,, still it would be necessary for the court below to show
that this claim of the relators was a case in law or.equity."
What is a case in law or equity?
"If B." says the Court's opinion,. "a resident of this district is
indebted to A. upon. a-prnmissory note, this Court has jurisdiction of
the case."
He apprehended something more was necessary than a note's be-

JANUARY TERM,-1838,
[Kendall v. The United States.]

ing due, betweeh such parties, to constitute a case at law or equity.
Thist'ourt, in Osborn v. The Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat.,

819, prescrine other requisites. " That power, the judiciary, is
only capable ot acting where the subject. is submitted to it by a party,
who asserts his rights in the f6rm ptescribed by law. It then becomes 'a,case:'" and Judge Story, in his Commentaries, vol, 3d; page
507, reter'ring to this case, says: " It is clear, that the judicial department is authorized to exercise jurisdiction, &c., Whenever any question shall assume such a orai that the judicial power is capable of
acting on it. When it has assumed such a form it then
becomes 'a
case;' and then, and not till then, the-judicial power attaches to it.
In other words,. a case'is a suit in law or equity, instituted according
'to the regular course of'judicial proceedings." So, 2 Peters, 449;
6 Peters, 405; '5Wheat. App. 16; 6 Binney, 5. So that before A
can make a case in law or equity out of the promissory note'which
B, owes him, he must submit it to the Court,' and assert his right,
"in a form prescribed by law." And if he cannot find a law prescribing a form by which he is to assert his. rigl4t, he -canvot have a
case in law or equity.
No aoubt A. can find such -a law, and therefore, he may have a
case. But where do the relators find any law prescribing a form, by
which they may require an executive officer to be compelled to discharge a duty devolved on him by law? If it be said by a mandamus,
under the 14th section of the-judiciary law, as a writ necessary to enable the Court to exercise Its jurisdiction; it is answered by'M'Cluny
v, Sillimian..

Congress has not prescribed a form by which
partiesy who have
rights to have bfficial acts, in; which they are interested, performed
by the public officers on whom "the laws'have devolved'such duties," may'turn these rightg into cases at law or equity between them
and the officers, and submit them as pontroversies to the courts.
Judge Story says, 3 Com. 541: " Congress have never yet acted
)upon the subject, so as to give judicial redress for any non-fulfilment of contracts by the national government. Cases of the most
cruel hardship and intolerable delay, have already Occurred;" &c.
Again. "He is- disposed to think that some mode ought to be
'provided, by which a pecuniary right against a state or against the
United States might be ascertained, and established by the judicial
sentence of some court; and when so ascertained and established,
VOL. XII.4

B

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

the payment might be enforced from the national treasury by an absolute 'appropriation."
Can it he possible that the learned judge was mistaken in all these
views? That these cases of'hardship and delay need not have occurred?. That adequate remedies in the courts, or at least in this circuit cOurt are to be found, where they wilt be recognised as cases in
law or equity? That the inability to sue the government, is to be
obviated by enforcing execution without suit against the officer, and
calling this pocess of execution a suit?
The section of the'judiciary act which gave to this Court the authority to issue writs of mandamus, shows that congress did not consider claims calling for that remedy as cases in law or equity; and
further shows, that congress meant to give that sort of jurisdiction
only to'this high tribunal, and not to the inferior courts.
Much is said in the opinion qf the court belo%€ as'to the distinction between the m-inisterial and discretionary acts of the executive.
officers. He did not admit that this was a true test of 'the jurisdiction by mandamus. In Curtis.v. The Turnpike Co., in 6. Cranch,
235, the,act to be done by the clerk was merely ministerial; and this
Court thought that as there was no act giving the circuit court jurisdiction over the act, it had no power to control him. Why, if the
court could not control its own clerk in a ministerial act, could it
control, in a similar act, the head of another department?
But can the act sought to be enforced, be considered a merely
ministerial act? If compared with the illustrations given in Marbury v. Madison, it would seem not. Griffith v. Cochran, 5 Bin.
87, decides that where an officer has to examine a contract, and be
guided by that'and a law in reference to it, (similar to which are the
duties of the officer here,) it cannot be held as a mere ministerial
act; and is not to be enforced by a mandamus. The same case, as
also judge Winchester's opinion, in the American Law Journal before referred to, shows that if the act is to be followed by taking
money out of the treasury, it cannot be enforced by mandamus.
Judge Tilghman remarks, "we have no right to do that indirectly
by mandamus, which we have no power to do directly; and we
might as well be called on to issue a mandamus to the state treasurer
to pay every debt which is claimed by an individual from the
state'," page 105.
It has been said that injunctions have been allowed by the circuit
court, addressed to the treasury officers.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

563

[Kendall v. The. United States.]

This has only been done in cases where the funds enjoined (as in
the .claims under, the French treaty) were not the public funds, but
moneys held by the, officers, in trust for the claimants. The circuit
court has always put its right to interfere exclusively on this ground;
and the government, in the time of Mr. Gallatin and ever since, has
denied as to the public money, anypower of the judiciary so to interfere. An opinion of: Mr. Wirt, when attorney general, expressly
denies such power' to 'the courts.
And the court below held, some years ago, the same opinion. In
*the case of Vasse v. Coniegys, MS.,34, they saiol; "the fund is in
the treasury of the United States. Can this be said to be within the
jurisdiction of this court? The officers of'the United States, holding
public money as money of the United States, are not accountable to
any body but the, United States; and, are not liable to a suit of an
individual on aec 6 unt of having such money in their hands."
It does not seem easy to reconcile this-with -the Jurisdiction now
assumed.
There remains another objection to the mandamus. There was, by
action against the officer, another 'specific remedy. 3 Burr, 1266; 1
Term Rep. 296; 21 Bin. 361; 2 Leiglh, 168; 2 Cowen, 444; 1 Wend.
325.

Ifi Marbury v. Malison the principle 'of these cases is recognised;
and it is said, if an action of detinue would lie, the mandamus "would
be improper." And this is again sanctioned by what is said in the
conclusion of this Court's opinion, in M'Cluny v. Silliman.
Yet the court below have oyerruled all these cases-' theiir own decision in United States v. The Bank of Alexandria; and say, that the
officer's being posibly unable to pay the damages that might be recovered in "an ction, prevents his liability to an action from being
sudh a remedy as should forbid the mandamus. As there can be no
action that isnot subject to such a contingency; it follows, contrary
to all these cases, that\a mandamus is allowable, although the officer
is also subject to an action.
If what has been said, sWould make it even only doubtful whether
the court below has the jurisdiction, Judge Iredell in,2 Dall. 413, and
Judge Baldwin in Ex parte Crane, 5 Peters, 223,'would show, in
Arery strong language, the impropriety and danger of assuming a jurisdiction which has slept ever since it was given, till the present
occasion.

SUPREME COURT..
[Kendall v. The United States.]

Coxe, for the defendants in error:
The facts and history of this case, as disclosed in'the record, are
peculiar. The questions which it presents are of the highest interest, as well as importance. It involves a large amount of property
which the relators believe belongs to them, by as perfect a right as
that by which any property can be held; and which has been unjustly and illegally withheld from their possession. It involves the
examination of the proceedings of a high functionary, under the
blighting influence of xhich a vast amount of personal suffering
has been endurea; and which has 'already brought to a premature
grave, one of the parties on the record. It involves general questions as to the rights of the citizen, in his pecuniary transactions
with the government, between .whomand himself contract stipulations subsist. It involves a consideration of high and heretofore
unknown powers, claimed as belonging to public officers, in withholding their action in cases where specific duties are imposed on
them by positive statute; and of immunities' asserted in regard to
them, when private rights are violated, and the injunctions of the
law disregarded. It involves a consideration.of the extent of legislative power; and of the means by which that authority may be enforced. It involves the nature, character and extent of judicial
power, under our institutions; and indeed, whether the judiciary be,
or not, a co-ordinate and independent department-of the government.
It involves the true interpretation of some of the most important
clauses in the constitution; the essential principles of all free governments,' and especially of our own peculiar institutions.
Nor are these matters, thus forced upon our consideration, limited
either in their application to the individuals who are parties on this
record, to the particular territory under whosm local jurisdiction this
case has arisen, or to the particular period in our history which 'is
now passing. They embrace every citizen of this vast republic;
they are co-extensive with our geographical limits; they will retain
all their interest and all their importance, so long as our fabric of
government shall live,, and our constitution continue in existence.
A brief 'eview of the history of. this case is essential to a correct
presentation of the proper subjects to be discussed. It originated
in an illegal' act of the present postmaster general; who undertook
to reverse the acts of his predecessor in office; to annul contracts
which he had made; to withdraw credits he had given; to recharge
moneys which he had paid. This proceeding has been declared by

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

565

[Kendall v. The United States.]

this Court to be illegal, and beyond his authority U. States v.
Fillebrown, 7 Peters, 46.
Congress' on the memorial of the relators, referred the adjustmertt of their claims to the solicitor of the treasury, and made' the
award of that functionary conclusive. 'He made his award: the
'postmaster general assumed the right to reverse the decision; and to
set at defiance the act 'of congress, which imposed upon him the_
plain duty of. executing it. The attorny general,. called upon for
his official opinion on the question in which' the postmaster represented the solicitor as having misconstrued the act of congress, aid
tbereby transcended his authority, concurred, with the solicitor in.
his interpretation of the law; and his opiilion is treated .with worse
than contempt. The judiciary committee of the senate, .fter-full
consideration; and. the senate, by an unanimous vote; ratify and,
sanction the action of the solicitor; yet this insubordinate inferior
still hangs out the flag of defiance. The judiciary .interpose; *their
mandate is disregarded, and language highly menacing in its character employed; in the intelligible intimation, that their process may
be -stricken dead, in the hands.of the marshal, by dismissing him
from-office, for the simple reason that he has performed, or is about
', perform, his positive duty.
Throughout therefore,.it appears, that tbis fynctionaryhas arrayed
'himself -in an attitude of hostility against all the, authorities of th4
government, with which he. has been brought in contact; And the
official interference by the district attorneyand attorney generallin
this proceeding, conveyed the first information that he was sustained
in any partof his course by any official influence.
Another. singular feature io. the case is, that the allegations. made
by the relators are substantially admitted to be true. The validity
of the original contracts under which the services were rendered,
is not denied.; the extent and value of those services, is not controverted;, the -construction of the, act of congress, is not qiestioned;
the obligation to pay the money, is not put in issue. The postmaster
general concedes all these points; but plants himself on the single
ground,. that however clear may be our rights, however just may be
the debt, however precise the injunctions of the act of congress, the
law cannot reach, him: that the claimants still have no other remedy
than such as he .may graciously please to extend,,or than may be
found in the power of the executive to remove him from office. He
insists, that notwithstanding the act of congress for their relief, and

566

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United, StMes.]

the award mane by thesolicitor, the parties 'stand, precisely as,they
did before they went to congress. Substantially, thisCourt is asked,
by the plaintiff in-error, to expunge the, act of congress frbm the
statute book; and' tottreat the proceedings of the' solicitor as a nullity.
Independently of.them, 'we had the sane remedies which it is contended we now h v we might then have supplicated the postmaster
general to dd as justice; wp might then haveinvoked the power of
the ,execittive,to see that the fhw should be faithfully executed.
The ques inn is thus breught within a' narrow scope. Isthere any
power in the judiciary ofI our country to reach such a case of, adknowledged wrong; and to enforce again'st this party the performance of an unquestionajle duty,?
In discussing this.case, it Will be attempted to maintain the followingpropositions; which 'will be found to comprehend every thing
essential tobring us to-a correct conclusion:
-J. That. upon, the general, principles of the law governing' this
particular form of proceeding, 'and in tle absenci of any objections
derived from the' pro~isions of the constitution or-acts of congrpss,
this is a proper case for x2mandamus.
"2. That the oonstitution does authorize congess' to vest in the
courts of the United States,, power to 'commandthe officer to whom,
the writ was directed" to perform, the act which 'he was required to
perform.
3.That congress has, "in fact, exercised ,this authority, by conferring. on the -circuit court of this district. power.t6 award the
mandamus, in the present case.
Before proceeding to discuss these propositions,, it may not be
irrelevantto' remnark., generally, that the return of the postmaster
general, in this case, is defective in all the essential requisites of a
good plea. No one fact is averred in such a form as to admit of
being traversed, or to' sustain an action for a false. return. .The 'return'to a mandamus should be as precis ,inits averments as any
.form of plea, or even an indictment. 10 Wend'. 25..
1. 'Isthe remedy b mandamus the. appropriate remedy in ,the'
present case?
The relators havea clear, precise right, absolute and unconditional,
secured by an act of congress; and this right i's withheld by an oflicerespecially charged by-law with the performan6e of an act essential, to that right. ' Is there any other specific, adequate, appropriate

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
.Kendall

v. The United States.]

legal remedy? It none, then upon the principls which govern this
form of proceeding, a mandamus will lie.
It has been argued -that such other remedy exists: 1. By personal pction against the delin~quent oficer. 2. By indictment, if he
has violated the law. 3. By petition to the executive, whose business it is to see the laws faithfully executed; and who can exercise
in case of recusancy, his constitutional function of dismissing the
party from office.
Neither of these furnishes such a remedy as the law regards.
Neither of them puts the party in possession of the right which is
withheld. If a civil suit be instituted, it must be a special acti6n on
the case, in which damages may be recovered to the extent of the
injury actually sustained by withholding the right; but after the recovery, the right to the specific thing remains perfect and unimpaired. This tight is not extinguished by such recovery; and as long
as it is withheld, the party may continue to institute new suits, and
recover fresh damages. In an indictment, the public wrong only is
punished; the private injury is unnoticed. The fine goes into the
public treasury; the imprisonment of the delinquent leaves the private right unaffected. 2 Binney, 275; 4 Barnw. & Ald. 360; 6
Bingh. 668; 10 Wend. 246.
We are, however, told, that the peculiarly appropriate remedy provided for the citizen in such a case, is to petition the executive to
command the performance of the act; and if his command is disobeyed, to removehe insubordinate officer from his office?
Is this in the language or spirit of the law, a specific, adequate,
and appropriate legal remedy ? A petition, which is addressed to
the -grace of the executive; which may be disregarded and put in the
fire, at the pleasure of the functionary to whom it is addressed;
which, if granted, will not secure redress of the wrong, but at the
utmost only punish the wrong-doer.
This doctrine, that an American citizen whose rights bave been
violated by a public functionary; whose property is withheld in opposition to the clear requisitions of a positive statute, has no remedy
but by petition to the executive; is a monstrous heresy, slavish in
the extreme. It has no ground of support in, the language of the
constitution, or the spirit of our instittions. The annunciation of
such a doctrine ifh England, was made, more than a century since, the
basis of one of the articles of impeachment exhibited against lord
Somers: 14th article of impeachment, 14 Howell's State Trials.

568

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

These are not, however, the grounds upon which the plaintiff in
error himself rests. He -denies that the ,mandamus is the appropriate
remedy: 1. Because he has a discretion -under the law; and where
the officer has a discretion, no mandamus lies. 2. Because the writ
can only issue, in cases'in which it is necessary; .not as a means of
obtaining jurisdictiofn over a case, but as a means of exercising a
jurisdiction already vested.
In any' sense in which the doctrine advanced in the first objection can be made applicable to the case at bar, the position assum6d
is.unfounded. In the general language in which it is expressed, it is
denied.
It does not follow from the fact, that a discretion is vested in an
officer, that therefore no mandamus, will lie. If a statute empower
an officer or an individual to do a particular act, but leaves it'exclusively to his discretion whether to perform it or not, no mandamus
will he to compel its performance. " ,"however, he is directed to
do an act, but he has a discretion to perform it in either of two ways,
a mandamus,will lie to compel him to exercise his discretion; and
having..done that, to perform the duty in the mode'which he :had
selected. If, for instance, tme act of cbi'gress for the relief of the
relitors, had directed the postmaster "general to pay them the full
amoiint awarded in gold or in silver, at his discretion; a mandamus
would lie to compel him to determine in which metal he would pay:
and having decided that to enforce the actual payment. -Such is the.
,doctrine of'all: theeases. 5 Wend. 122, 144; 10 Wend. 289,; 13
Picker. 225; 3 Dall. 42; 1 Paine, 453. In order to' bring himself
within the correct principle of the law upon this subject, the postmaster general must show that under the act of congress he was
auiaslrized to give the credit claimed, or to withhold it at his
pleasure..
His argument is, that because he must examine the provisions of
the law, and the award of, the solicitor, and compare them together
to see whether. the latter is within the power delegated by the former; he must exercise judgment, and conseqttently possesses a discretn. Because some preliminary examination- may be necessary
in order to ascertain' the precise duty which is enjoined; does the
obligation to perform it, When ascertained, become less imperative?
If in order-to know, distinctly, what is his duty, it be necessary to
examine one statute or fifty, one Section or many, the'simple statute,
or, in onnexion with that, an aiward made under it; is wholly imma-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United Staies.l

terial, a sheriff has the same discretion in the service of all process;
yet his act is purely ministerial,.and fie may be enforced to execute
the Writ placed in his hands.
2. A mandamus can be issued only as a means of exercising a
jurisdiction already vested; not for the purpose of obtaining jurisdictiohi. The argumentupon this! point is so singularly deficient in
precision, that it is somewhat difficult to determine its exact scope.
He says the circuit court has no original jurisdiction to adjtdicate
upon claims of contracts upon his department. From this proposition he deduces the inference, that all the jurisdiction which can be
exercised must be of an appellate character. Then, from the fact
that the act of congress makes the award final and conclusiv¢e, with
no 'power of revisal or reversal vested any where, he reaches the
conclusion that the court possesses no appellate jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction which has been exercised is not of that original
kind which is thus denied to exist; for no action has been instituted
against the department, for the purpose of adjusting the claims of the
contractors: the existence.and extent of those claims had been already determined by the special tribunal to which the power was
confided.
No attempt has been made to subject that decision to the review
of the circuit court, so as either to reverse or change it. The appellate power, therefore, which he denies, has never ,.een claimed by
or forthe court; such high power has been claimed and exercised
by himself alone. The eircuit court assumes the conclusive character of the award: the object of this proceeding is to enforce, not to
annul; to execute, not to reverse.
The result then of this inquiry is, that the case is one in Which
the remedy by mandamus is the appropriate remedy, according to
the general principles of law. governing that writ. 1 Cranch, 163,
167, 168, 169; 5 Bac. Abr. (new Loud. edition,) 261; 2 Brock. 11.
Further illustration of this position will be found in the subsequent
parts of the-argument.
3. Unless, then, some constitutional objections fatal to our claim
can be presented, or some deficiency in the provisions of the law'to
meet the case exist, the circuit court has not erred in awarding the
mandamus. It is, however, objected, that under the constitution no
such power can be vested in the judiciary.
This objection, as presented in the return, is, with characteristic
modesty, put forth in the shape of a doubt. " It is doubted whether
VoL. XII.-4 C

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

under the constitution of the United States, it confers on the judiciary department of the government authority to control the executive departmefit in the exercise of its functions, of whatever character."
It appears to be assumed in the objection, as thus, presented, that
the jurisdiction claimed on behalf of the judiciary, is a power of control over the executive department. Much of the argument employed in this case has been directed against the mere figments of
the imagination of this high functionary.
The mutual independence of the three great departments of the
government is assumed throughout our entire argument. That each
is to act in the performance of its appropriate'functions, uncontrolled
by either of the others; that each possesses all the powers necessary
to the full and complete exercise of its own authority; if denied in
any part of this case, is denied only by the postmaster general, and
by his counsel.
The language of the constitution in describing
the extent of the
judicial power is large and comprehensive. Art. 3. sec. 2. It comprehends all cases in law or equity, arising under-the constitution and
Iaws of the United States. No limitation is expressed,,no exceptionmade in favour of any description of case; any character of party; or
any occupant of office. No individual is in terms exempted from
this jurisdiction, in consequence either of the office he may hold, or
the character of his act. The judicial power embraces all the cases
enumerated in the 3d article of the co'nstitution. 1 Bald.',545. A
case aff&cting the postmaster general, or the President, is still a case
under the constitution. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 379.
It must be obvious,,that the question immediately under discussion, involves rather an inquiry into the extent of legislative than of
judicial authority. It is not what has congress designed to do; but,
under the constitution, what may it do.
The postmaster general, and the department of which he is the
head, are the creatures of legislative power. Art. 1. s. 8. i. 7, of the
constitution, confers upon congress the power to establish post offices
and post roads. All the legislation of congress upon the subject is
under this clause. All offices of the United States, except in cases
where the constitution otherwise provides, must be established by
congress. 2 Brockenb. 101.
If congress may, thev, cieate the office, prescribethe doties of the
officer, determine what he may do, and prohibit him frofi doing

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]
other things; may not the same power constitutionally declare to
whom he shall be responsible, and confer authoi°ty where it pleases
to enforce such responsibility?
Such has been the uniform action of congress,, and its validity has
never yet been questioned., The act of September 22, 1789, 2.L.U.
S. '53, s. 1, which erected the department, provides that the postmaster general shall be subject to the direction of the President in
performing the duties of his. office. The act of Feb. 2, 183t. :newly
organizing the department, and places the district attorneys, in relation to certain duties, under the control: of the postmaster general.
By the act of Febrbary 20, 1792, 2 L. U. S.245, s. 4, the postmaster
general is to render his accounts to the secretary of the treasury; and
to this extent is subject to the authority of that functionary. By the
24th section of the same act, he is made responsible for certain omissions, and certain moneys are recoverable from him. By the very,
terms of the law he is made amenable to the jurisdiction of courts.
Are these provisions, one and all, unconstitutional? If not, how
can the eonstitutibnal power of the' same legislature to invest its
courts with authority to direct the officer to act, as well as to punish
him for not acting, be denied?
The argument of the postmaster general, dind of the attorney general, assumes that the post office department is an essential part 6f
the executive department of the government;. and from this position
infers the want' of the jurisdiction claimed. The assumption has
been shown to be inaccurate: but even if true, it is not easy to perceive the connection between the premises and the conclusion.
We are referred to the debates in the convention, to show the
anxiety of that body to preserve separate and distinct the three great
departments. I will, in return, refer to the 47th and to the succeeding numbers of the Federalist, for a correct exposition of this maxinA
of political philosophy, and its practical adoption in our constitution.
Starting from this basis, the constitution is appealed to; and by the
aid of some interpolation and some extravagant interpretation, we are
told substantially, if not in terms:
1. That the clause in the constitution which provides that the
executive power shall be vested in the President, actually confers
upon him all that power which, in any age of the world and under'
any form of government, has been vested in the chief executive
functionary; whether king or czar, emperor or dictator.
2. That the clause which imposes; 'upon the executive the duty of

572

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]'

seeing that the laws are faithfully executed, contains another large
grant of power.
3. That, as a'means to the performance of this duty, he is invested
with the power of appointnent to'and removal from office
4. That the power of appointment
'iemoval carries with, it the
power to direct, instruct, and control every officer over whom it may
b kxercised,.as to the manner in which he shall perform the duties
of his office.
My observations upon these, points shall be few, and brief.
The first proposition was; perhaps, for the first time distinctly advanced by General Harmilttcn,.in his Letters of Pacificus, No. 1, p.
535. A great and revered authority, but subject to occasional error.
It was fully answered by Mr. Madison in, the Letters of Helvidius, p.
594, &c., and has since remained dormant. .The second is pow for
the first timebbroadly asserted. Its dangerous tendencies-its hos,ility to every principle of our institutions, cannot be exaggerated.
'The true signification of this part pf the constitution, I take to be
simply this, tat the President is authorized' to employ those powers
which are expressly entrusted to him to execute those laws which
he is empoWered to administer; or, in the language of the late Chief
Justice, he is at liberty to employ any means which the constitution
and laws place under his control. 2 Brockenb. 10.
.The third proposition is a palpable and unwarrantable interpolation of the constitution. The fourth, if the power claimed is derived
from the power of appointment, would makb the judges dependent
upon executive diktation; if 'from that power and -that of removal,
eonj6intly, would make it the true theory of theEnglish constitution,
that the king-, might instruct, direct, and control the lord chancellor
in the performance of his judicial duties. It Would make him the
keeper of the chancellor's conscience.
The right to command, direct and control, involves the correlative
duty of obedience. No officer can be criminally or civilly punished
for obedience to the lawful command of a superior, which he is bound
to obey. This doctrine, then, asserts the entire irresponsibility of
all officers, except to this one superior.
One of the practical inferences from these premises is, that the
judiciary departmeft cannot execute its own judgments; a proposition
distinctly avowed by'the postmaster general in his, return, p. 127geneial,.
8.q9, and asserted, in terns equally distinct, by the attorney
in p. 152.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

,The attorney general presses this argumnient still further, and, froni
the absolute inability of the courts to execute their judgment in ihe
case of a peremptory mandamus, without the consent of the executive department," considers the inference as clear, that no court.has
the capacity "to issue such.a writ." How obvious is the inference,
if this be correct, that the courts can issue no process, and exercise
no jurisdiction of any description. If this process, to use the expression of the postmaster general, may be "struck dead" in the
hands of the marshal, by dismissing him from office; may not every
capias, and. summons, and subpcena, and attachment? The law, however, has provided, that in case of regnoval from office the marshal
may, nevertheless, proceed to execute the process then in his hanIds.
While adverting in this argument, to questions rather of -Political
than of legal science, it is somewhat surprising that these learned
gentlemen have overlooked one peculiarly important in the consideration of this subject. A maxim fully embodied in our institutions,
recognised by every commentator on the con titution, whether
judicial or political. This Court has, upon more than one occasion,
laid down the position, that the judicial power of every well organized government must be co-extensive with the legislative and
executive authority. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 354, 382, 384;
Osborn v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 818.
The true and sound constitutional doctrine upon this subject is,
that Whenever the legislature may constitutionally create an office,
and prescribe its duties and its powers; they may make the incumbent responsible to tlie judiciaryfo the faithful performance of those
duties.
When the legislature may rightfully conimarid an act to be done
by a publicofficer, they may confer upon the judiciary the power. to
enforce its performance, or to pur.ish its omission. In fact, the judicial power is never exercised except for the purpose of giving effect
to the will of the legislature. 9 Wheat. 866.
Jf,,then, there.be any limitation to, or any exception from this
general rule, or the coffnprehensive language of the constitution in
conferring the judicial power, let it be shown in the instrument
itself. Such is the doctrine of this Court in Cohens v. Virginia,.6
Wheat. 378; and in Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, at this term. If
there be any exception embracing this party, excluding him from the
jurisdiction of the court, let it be shown. If he is entitled to any
exemption, let him exhibit his right.

SUPREME COURT.
LKendall v. The, United States.]

In examining the .constitution for any such exemption, we are
naturally led to that part of this instrument which defines and prescribes the extent of the judicial power, and to that which creates
the executive department. In neither can it be discovered. On
the cpntrary, the constitution, at least by powerful implicatioh,
recognises the executive officers as subject personally to the judicial
power.
So far as the ground upon which this exemption is claimed has
been presented, it seems to be derived from the official character of
the partr called. -upon to perform the auty enjoined, and from the
character of the -act which he is required to execute. 1This is not,
however, to be found in any provision of the constitution, or in the
genius of our government.
That executive officers, as such, are amenable to courts of justice
for their official acts, would almost seem too plain for. argument.
Such has ever been the law in Efigland. In that country, exeniption from legal process is confined exclusively tothe monarch, and
certain portions of the royal family. Yet anciently, when' writs
were in general mandatory to the party, the kingmight be sued as
a private, party, the form being Pracipe Henrico, Pxegi Anglim. 5
Bac: Abr. 571; Gwil. Edit. Prerog. E. 7; 43 E. 3.2 . To the extent
to which it existed, in England al any time, it was a privilege, part
of the royal prerogative, purely personal and incommunicable. Another branch of the same prerogative existed, under which the king
granted writs of protection to such of his swbjects as ,he might have
occasion to employ in the public service,- exempting them from
arrest Com. Dig.' Prerog. D,.78, 79, 80, 81, 82. This was personal
and temporary. With these eAceptJons, wholly inapplicable to the
present times and to our institutions, no such principles as the postmaster general invokes ever existed in England; and since the
revolution in 1688, it is believed no writ of protection has been
issued.'
Frequently, before, and uniformly since that great event in English
history, jurisdiction "has been exercised by the various courts of
England over the highest dignitaries of the realm, in relation to
their official acts, through the instrumentality of such writs as were
adapted to the particular cases that occurred, without distinction.
Offices are forfeitable for malfeasance, an for nonfeasance; and.
this forfeiture enforced by a criminal pros tion. In 2 Salk. 625,
will be found' a short note of lord BellamOpt's case, who was prose-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v, The United States.]

cuted for an official act as governor of the the'n province of New
York. In Mostyn v. Fabrigas, Cowp. 161, 11 Harg. St. Tr. 162,
Lord Mansfield held, that an action might be sustained by a nativ6
of Minorca; emphatically, as he says, against the governor of that
island for an act of official misconduct. In this country, such cases
are numerous. Hoyt v. Geiston is familiar to this Court. Livingston v. Jefferson, was a ease in which the defendant was sued for an
act done by him as President of the United States. 1 Brock. 203.
The recent cases of Tracy v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 80, and Elliott
v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 137, are also cases of this description.
Such jurisdiction is in terms recognised by the constitution in
the clause relating to impeachment, and is distinctly admitted in
various acts of congress. It is not necessary here to advert to more
than one or two instances. The post-office act of 1792 has been already cited; but the act of Feb. 4, 1815, (4 L. U. S. 786,) in some
of its provisions, recognises the amenability of the public officers of
the United States, whether civil or military, to the judicial tribunals,
even of the states, for their official acts.
To a certain e tent, this responsibility, is conceded in the return
on'record, p. 151. This concession is a virtual surrender of the entire case; unless the postmaster general, while acknowledging his
general responsibility, shall insist upon and sustain a special exemption from this particular process. He admits that the court possesses
the power to punish him if he does wrong,, but denies that they can
compel him to do right. A capias will lie notwithstanding his high
office: this power may be constitutionally vested in the courts. A
habeas corpus will lie, if a citizen is wrongfully imprisoned by the
highest dignitary; and an action be sustained for the illegal arrest.
Damages may be recovered for an illegal act, or an injunction issue to
restrain it. This particular remedy by injunction is given by express
statute,,in certain cases in which the United States is a party. Act of
May 15, 1830;. 3 Story, 1791 : and its validity recognised by this
Court in United States v. Nourse, 6 Peters, 470; and impliedly in
Cathcart v. Robinson, 5 'Peters, 264; in Armstrong v. United States,
1 Peters' C. C. R. 46; 9 Wheat, 842, 843, 145; 1 Baldw. 214, 215.
If all 'or either of these writs may issue, why not a mandamus?
So far as authority goes, we have the legislative opinion on the question in the judiciary act of 1789, expressly conferring this power
upon this Court; and the force of this.authority is not weakened by
the circumstance that the unconstitutionality of that provision was

576

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. the United States.]

subsequently decided. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137, contains
the deliberate opinion of this Court on the very point; and although
the authority of that decision has been questioned by Mr. Jefferson,
in his private correspondence; yet before a legal tribunal little
*eight can or ought to be attached to his opinion.
The full authority of that case has been recogni-sed by all the distinguished commentators; by Dane, Story, and Kent; by this Court,
in M'Intire v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 504; M'Cluny v. Silliman, 6 Wheat.
598; and in Ex parte Crane, 5 -Peters 190. In no-one judicial decision; in the elementary treatise of no jurist; is the authority Qf that
case upon' this point impugned or questioned.,
But the attorney general supposes that this process is applicable
only to inferior magistrates; that. it grows out of a general supervisory jurisdiction; and he finds no instance in England of its being di,
rected to any officer of the executive department. The circuit court,
in its opinion, while partially falling into the same error of fact, yet
'distinctly avoids the erroneous inference of the attorney general.
This is, however, a clear mistake; and it is matter of great arid just
surprise, that it should have been committed. It would not, however, be very material if no direct precedent could be produced; for
to employ the language used in 10 Mod. 49, 54, if there be no pricedent in which the writ has bden issued in such a case, it is because no such cas9 has ever before been presented to a judicial tribunal, and no precedent can be found'ip which it has been denied.
'But the precedent and authorities in fat'our of this, and analogous
proceedings, are numerous, both in ancient and modern days.
Neville's case, Plowd. 82, was; in all its essential features a
mandamus to the officers of the exchequer, commanding them to pay'
a certain sum of money out of the royal treasure. Wroth's case,
Plowd. 458, was another ease. of the same character. The validity.
of such .writ is expressly recognised in F. N. B., Hale's edit. 121, F.
Writs of mandamus ancienily lay to the escheator, 5 Bac. Abr. 258;
Dyer, 209, 248. The whole proceeding in enforcing payment of
debts due by the sovereign-to the subject) is exhibited in the Banker's
case, 14 How. St. TA1; which is one of themost remarkable'and
interesting cases, as well judicially as politically, to be found in
English history. In Vernon v. Blackerly, Barnard, 377,'399, it was'
considered by the cancellor as the proper remedy. In Rankin v.
Huskisson, in 1830, 4 Simon, 13; and in Ellis v. Lord Grey, in
1833, 6 Simon, 214; the analogous process of injunction was award-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall. v., Th6 United States.]

ed to the highest public functioxiaries 'in Great Britain, commanding
them -to do' what the plaintiff in error contends, 'no -court can do.
And iii TheKing v. The Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, in
1835, the whole court of king's bench concurring, a mandamus was
aiwarded to those high officers, commanding them to do what this
party is required to do.
Is the American citizen less favoured by law than a *itish subject? Are the officers of ihis g 6 vernment clothed With loftier powers,
and do they. possess 'higher attributes than thqse with which the
prime minister of the British crown, and his immediate associateA
are invested.
Is there any'thing in the character of'ourinstituions which can
create a difference? Such is not the doctrine in the great state of
New York; 0 Wendall,'26, in the case of a mandamus to'the canal
'commissioners, charged with the interest and management of the
great works of internal improdier
ent. In Pennsylvanix, the 'same
law prevails, 2 Watts,. 517: in, Kentucky; Craig v. Register of the
Land Office, 1 Bibb. 310; Hardin v..Register, &c.,i ° Lit. Sel.'Ca.,
28; Commonwealth v. Clark, 1 Bibb. 531; -Divine v. Harvey, 7.
Monroe, 443: In Ohio, Ex partec.Fenuer, 5 Ham. 542; an4d,,6: Ohio
Rep. 447; , and the only case cited as. contravening' oui', goundf
1
Cooke, 214, is a decisive authority to.show that such also is'the law
of'Tennessee.
But,'after the extensive and recent precedents. set b' this Courtis
it possible further to question the constitutional power of. eorgress
over this subject? What are the cases of U. States v. Arredondo, 6
Peters, 763; U. States '*. Huertas, 9 Peters, 172, 73;' Mitchel v. tT.
States, 9 Peters; 762; Soulard v. U. States, 10 Peters, 105; U. States
v. Seton, 10 Peters, 311 ; Mackey v. U. 'Stateg,_ 10 Peters, -42; Sib-;
bald v. U. States, 10 Peters, '313? Each and every of'these eake
recognises the authority of the judiciary, under an act of. congresS,
to issue its mandate to aL ministeriaf officer commandiiig the performance of a ministerial act.
3. The only remaining question for discussion is, has eornress, in
this particular instance, authorized the issuing of this writ, and eier,
cised its' constitutional power?
To determine this question, reference must be'had to the: law organizing the circuit court of this district. The act of 27th February,
' 1801, Davis's' Laws, 123, contains three sections bearing upon this.
point.6f inquiry. The firist'section provides, that the' laws of the
VOL. XI,--4 D

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The. United States.]

state of Maryland, as they now exist, shall be and continue in force,
in that part of the said district which was ceded by that state to the
United States, and by 'them accepted. The third section provides,
that there shall be a court, which shall be called the circuit. court,
&c. And the said court, and the judges thereof, shall have all the
powers bylaw vested in the circuit courts, and the judges of the
circuit courts of the United States. The fifth section provides that
said court shall have cognizance of all cases inlaw or equity between
parties, both or either of which shall be resident, or be found within
said district. The words of the clause conferring jurisdiction, will
be found as compreh'ensive as those employed in the constitution; and
ifI have been successful, in showing that congress may confer such
authority, the fifth section shows that, it has, been, in fact, granted.
There are nowords of exemption or limitation which can apply
to the case at bar.
The attorney general argues,,1. That the decisions of this Court,
in M 'ntire v. Wood,.7 Cranch, 504, and inM'Cluny v. Silliman, 6
Wheat. 598, show, that beyond the District of Columbia, the courts
of the United States'can exercise no such jurisdiction. '2. That the
circuit court erred in supposing thait the provisions of the act'of 27th
February, 1801, extend the 'owers of the circuit court in this district, beyond those of the other
circuit courts.
After quoting the language of the judicial act of 1789, in relation
to ci'r~uit courts ifi general, he' institutes a comparison between that
and the act of,. February, 1801)'and insists that there exists no substantial diffekence between them; and that the inferences deduced
from the langpagetof this Court, in MIntire v.Wood, are not only
erroneous; but that they have been- repudiated in M'ChIny v,Stillman.
1. The cas6 of M'Intird v. Wood, came before this Court on -a
certificate of a division of opinion from the circuit court of Ohio; and
it was decided that the circuit court had no jurisdiction to issue a
mah'damus to-the register of the land office. That decision rested
upon the provisions of the eleventh section of the apt of 1789, which
was held not to confer the jurisdiction, claimed; but the Court expressly say, that had that section covered the whole
ground of the
constitution; in other words, vested all the power which the constitution authorized, the result would have been different. Aware that
the language of that section was thus restrained, and that of the 27th
February, 1801, was unlimited, we regarded the-case so triumphantly

JANUARY TERM, i838.
[Keidall
av.The United S'tats.]

cited against us; as an authority in our favour. - In 2 Wheat. 369, the
question.,whether
same case under another, name, presented
state court could award the mandamus desired. In 6 Wheat.598, .it
camae' again before this Court presenting both questions. On this
occa'sibn, th" ease of" M'Intire v. Wood is 'r&examined, and its doc'
trines ,reaffirmed; ijand the very question now at bar, was adverted
to in; the opinion of the'Court, and our "view of it sustainedl This'is
again co'ifirmedby thesubscqqient language of the Court,where it is
observed:-,BUt when, in the case of Marbury v. Madison, and that
of M'Intire v. Wood, this' Court decided 'against the exercise of that
power, the idea' never presented itself to any ,one, that it was not
within the sco e of the judicial powers of the United States,Nalth6ugh
not vested by law in the courts (ofthe general governmdnt"
-2. There is, in our judgment, a broad and essential ifferance between the provisions of the two statutes. The attorney general
biings thetwo_ enactments into juxtaposition, compares their phrastagebra equai
of aion
ology, and treats the t-o laws afterthe- s
tion.
The 11th section.of the judciary ,act of 1789, provde4s that "4the
with th
circuit: courts shall hate origihal eognii,anee .oencurrent
courts of the, several states, of' all suits of a civil nature at common
law or in equity,,' &c., The 5th. sectiop of thl act of'i$th F rtary,
1801, ena a,that ,"thesaid ,court.shall, have cognizance of all cases
in'law and equity,"',&dj
It may b'reiaxked:
. The Subject matter 'of the two -laws is essentially. different.
The'object of: the first law was to organizeand create courts purely
federal in thei -character, and therefore limited'both as to the subjects-and parties over which they. might take cognizance; the object
of the other was t ,provide a tribunal to administer not only the
laws, of the 'United States, but the 'Maryland laW which was in terms
retained, and without distinction as to the parties.
•2.The act of 1789 was designed to comprehend all' he courts of
the Union; the Supreme, the cireitit, and the' distrint courts. The
first wa to be organized;, but the extent of its jurisdiction, as. conferred by the constitution could neither be enlarged nor diminished.
.the

The other courts Were to be organized, and between them was to be
apportioned and distribited such portion of the- residue of the judi
cial power of the sovereign, as it pleased to vest in them respec .
tively.

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. TheUnited States,]

By the 14th section of this act, the power ta issue a mandamus in
a case like the present, is, in terms, given to the Supreme Court In
interpreting the language, it is immaterial that this. was afterwards, in
Marbury v. Midison, held to be unconstitintional. Ex parte Crane,
5 Peters, 208. The express grant to'the one'court, excludes. the idea
of an implied grant to another tribunal to. exercise'the same authority.
3. Anotler. distinction is striking and important ,The laws of
Maryland are expressly continued in force; allthe rights and remedies furnished and sanctioned by those lawg' are-preserved. By those
laws, a mandamus would lie to a public officer comihanding the performance of a ministerial duty. This is, to a certain extent, conceded
by the attorney gene'al, page 148. This concession is a virtual iecognition of an essential difference between the -two courts.
In making this concessioh, however, he denies its application to,
offlcers of the United 'States, because no such writ could be 'addressed to them' under the laws of Maryland. This exception annihilates the admission, because all officers within this district, even
the lowest officers of a corporation, derive their authority from acts
of congress.
'The distinction attempted to be drawn is fallacious. If the 'courts.
of Maryland possessed the' jtrisdietion over an officer of that'commonwealth, the transfer of sovereignty would not vest the same
power 'in the courts of the district. If 'the power over the. Maryland officers terminated by, the cession, and that over officers deriving
their existence from congress did not arispe; the courts of~the district
do not succeed, to the powers of the Maryland 'courts: noi do tie
citizens 'of the district preserve those rights aid retain the same
remedies to which'they were entitled before the cession.
The effect of a cession of sovereignty is misapprehended. The
same laws are preserved, the same rights continued, and there exist
the same remedies for enforcing them. Therelations between'.the'
subject and the sovereign, are the same; the parties between whom
these relations subsist are different.
This.-admits of various illustrations. An inhabitant of Florida, be-.
fore the acqtisition of that territory by the .United States, owed allegiance to the king of Spain; he would have incurred the guilt and
punishment of treason, had 'he borne arms under the 'United States
against Spain. Since the cession he owes'the same allegiance to his
new sovereign, and would incur the same penalty were he to aid

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

Spain against the United States. The law is-unchanged, but the parties are changed.
So take the history of the mandamus, as given by the attorney
general in his opinion. The colonial courts did not succeed to the
jurisdiction over the same officeis as Ithe king's bench possessed,
nor do the state courts. Our courts exercise a jurisdiction analogous
to that of the king's bench, and issue a mandamus in analogous cases,
to persons holding analogous relations. This is our argument.
3. The 11th section of the judiciary act, confers upon the circuit
courts no other jurisdictiqn than such as may be issued concurrently
by, the state courts. The design and policy of this provision, and
the true meaning of this enactment may be found in 1 Kent, 395,
&d.; 3 Story:on Cnst. 619, &c. As no jurisdiction was or could be
conferred by congress on the state courts, the reference to them was
merely to furnish a standard by which to measure that of the circuit
courts held within theii territory.
It is then a fatal objection to thejirisdiction of a circuit court un'der the 'act of 1789,:that a state court could not take cognizance of
the case. That jurisdiction is still further limited, by being restricted.to particular persons. No such limitations are found in the act
of 1801. Upon this Court is conferred general jurisdiction over all
cases in law and equity. Until a special act of congress conferred
the jurisdiction, the postmaster general could not sue in the other
circuit courts; they had no jurisdiction over cases arising under the
patent laws or qopyright laws, as such. But over all these cases the
circuit court of this district always possessed and exercised jurisdiction.
The circuit courts, under the act of 1789, could not entertain ju
risdiction of cases merely on, account of their character or brigin;
they could not issue writs of mandamus or quo warranto to operate
upon officers or courts of the Union, because over such cases the
state courts had no concurrent jurisdiction.

The circuit,. court of

this district has from its origin exercised this'juridiction.
4. It is.said that,in the circuit court a difference existed between
the counsel and the court, is to the grounds upon which this jurisdiction was claimed'. To a certain extent there was some difference.
Independently of the grounds that have been mentioned, I asserted
it as derivable from the 3d section of the act, which confers upon
the Court all the powers vested by law in the other circuit courts.

582

SUPREME COURT.

[Kendall v. The United States.]
The only ,law then in existence referring to them, was the act of
13th February, 1801, which was afterwards repealed.,
It was intimated by the court, that it derived its powers from the
3d, and its'jurisdiction from the 5th sections.- Strictly :speaking,
powers are not jurisdiction; theformer are the means by which the
'latter is exercised. But in ordinary parlance, they are often employed indiscriminately; and. in all cases, the one implies the other.
Wherever jurisdiction is conferred, power to exercise it is implied;
wherever power is granted, it is for the purpose of exercising jurisdiction. The word power is that which is alone employed in the
constitution; and in the acts of 1789 and 1801, cognizance is used
as an equipollent expression.
It is not very, important to which section we,especially refer. If
this be a case in laW or equity, and either of the parties has been
found here; it is a case over which the jurisdiction of the circuit
'
court rightfully extends. If it be nbt '4a case," what is it that is the.
subject. of discussion. It is the claim of a legal right, pursued in
court by an appropriate legal process. Should.any doubi exist as to
the true construction of the act of 27th February, it should operate
in favour of the jurisdiction; for if this Court was right in Martih
v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 329-30, in asserting that it was an imperative
duty in congress to vest in some tribunal or another all the judicial
power of the Union; no implication can be admitted to exclude any
class of cases,, where the words of the statute are sufficiently compre-.
hensive to, embrace it.
Mr. Butler, attorney general, in reply:
It has been correctly said, by the learned counsel for the defendants' in error, that all the facts alleged in the petition are admitted in
the return. On the relators' own showing, it was believed that the
mandamus could not legally be issued: the retfirn, therefore, set up
no traversable matter of fact; but merely stated objections, in point
of law, to the relators' application. It was substantially a demurrer
to the petition. The authority and duty of the court to issuethe
writ on the case stated by the relators, were therefore, the only
questions in the, court beldw; they are the only questions here.
They are purely questions of law; and they neither require, nor
authorize, any investigation. of the merits of the orjgt1ial controversy.
And yet the- learned counsel have felt themselves at liberty tQ indulge in reiterated and -unsparing censures of the plaintiff in erro04'

JANUARY TERM, 183s.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

not only irrelevant to the points to be decided, but founded on matters, in some cases not contained in the record, and in others, directlyrepugnant to it.
For example: The official action of the plaintiff in error in suspending the extra allowances made to the relators, by his predecessor, has been denounced as downright usurpation; illegal in itself,
and cruelly oppressive: with how much justice, let the very words
of the relators tell us. In their first petition to congress, after
stating the extra allowances made to them, they go on to say;
"that their account being unsettled in the books of the department, when the present postmaster general came into office, he
considered himself bound, in the adjustment of their accounts, to
reject any credits for the allowances thus made to them, for this
extra duty. Irihis construction of the post office laws, he also felt
himself without any iegal authority to adjust the claims, and make
any eompensation for these, services; and' further, considering that
there had been no legal sanction for the allowances thus made to
your mnemorialists, he felt bound, by his duty, to stop the regular
contract pay of your memorialiets, till the sums they had thus received from the department, (and which he considered as over payments,) were refuhded to the government. Those views, thus
entertained by the postmaster general, Of the post office laws, and
of the powers and duties of that department, were, at the request of
your memorialists, submitted to the decision of the attorney general
of the United States. They refer to his opinion, accompanying this
memorial, by which it appears, that he concurs in -his view of these
legal questions with the postmaster general.: so that no other remedy
is left to your memorialists, in a case, as they conceive, of very
peculiar har'dships, except thatwhich is intimated in a passage of
the attorney general's opinion, and expressed in reference to this
and similar claims, in the conclusion of the postmaster. general's
report to your honourable body." The remedy referred, to was an
appeal to congress, to whose favourable consideration the case was
recommended by both those officers. The injustice of the complaints on this head is still further aggravated, by the fact, forming
part of our public history, that the allowances in qLestion, and others
of the liko nature, had been the subject of investigation by congress;
and however ancient the practice, or innocent the motives, in which
they originated, had been conceded on all hands, to be wholly
illegal.. This entirely' distinguished the case from that of Fille-

SUPRE9ME-COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

brown,' 7Peters,*46, cited by the other side.: where it was held
by this Court, that the secretary of the 'navy had legal power to
make the allowances then in question. Under these circumstances,
the accounts of the relators 'being unsettled,'and the allowances not
actually paid, the plaintiff in error might well .think it his duty to
confine the credits of the relators to suth items as were authorized
by law; and to refer any claims not so authorized to the dccision of
congress, On the case stated by him. to the attorney general, his
course was sustained 'by that officer; and the relators in their, application to congress, did not attempt to question either the legality-o
his conduct, or the pprightness of his motives.
Equally groundless and repugnant to the record were the assertions,
the plaintiff in4 error, had set at defiance- the act of eonIgress, "that
and the
authority of the. solicitor: had treated with
contempt
the opinion of the attorney general, on the construction of the law;
or had ever given out 'the monstros pretension, that the relators
"have no other remedy than such as he may gra'ciously please to.
extend, or that may be found in, the power of the executive to remove him from office,'.' &c. &c.
It appears by-the record, that the suspended allowances. amounted
to one hundred and twenty-two thousand one hundred and one dollars and forty-six cents, being for services prior to April, 1835. -The
claim for these allowances,. until'aft6r the act of congress, constituted
the'whole subject of controversy. When the subject came, before.
the, solicitor, the relators claimed a large additinal suni, (fort thousa'hd six hundred and twenty-,five dollars,) -for similar allowances
after April, 1835, and until the end of December, in that year, the.
period when the contracts expired. It certainly was not strange
-thatthe. plaintiff in error should doubt as to the intention, of congress to give the relators this -additional sum. When has. it-'b fore
happened that a party whose claims have been rejected by a department, has obtained from congress a, law, covering not only the sum
'in dispute, but authorizing a claim for' a large additiopal amount?
Congress, however, have the power to pass such. a law; and if they
think that justice requires it they should undoubtedly do so.. -.This,
the solicitor thought they had done, in the present' case. On this
point, he requested the opinion of the attorney general. ' That officer
concurred with him. He thought with the solicitor and, still thilyk,
that the words 'employed in. the at 'gave ,the solicitor. -auth6rity to
decide on claims on tlie "conh'aets described in -the' law; for. services

JANTT4RY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States,]

after as well as before April, 1835. The plaintiff in error, who had
not been consulted as to this reference, complained'of the miinner in
which it was made; 'and also questioned the( solicitor's right to call
for the opinion. In this latter objection he proved to be correct;
thp act of May ,29th, 1830, which authorizes the solicitor of the
treasury to !a k the opinion of the attorney general, referring exclusively to "suits, proceedings, and prosecutions," under the care of
the solicitor, by virtue of his general official duty. This did not
occur eitler to the solicitor, when he made the reference, or to the
attorney general, when he answered it; but was afterwards admitted
by both: and it certainly may well shield the plaintiff in error from
one of the charges made against him, that of contemning the opinion
bf the law officer. And, besides, one of the mivin grounds on which
he relied was, that in truth there was no contract in the case; and if
he was right on this question of fact, then neither the opinion nor
the law sustained the award.
S far from setting' congress at defiance, he expressly declares, in
his letter to the President, of the 27th of December, 1836; "that
inasmuch as congress is now in session, the most appropriate resort
is to loat ,body for an explanatory act, which, if it confirm the opinion of the solicitor, I will implicitly obey." 'Again, in his letter to
the President, of the 31st of January, 1837, after saying that the
balance cannot be paid without further legislation; he adds, that " if
congress thinks proper to require the payment, it will be his duty
to make it." The same willingness promptly to obey the direction
of congress, if' by an explanatory act or joint resolution, they should
require the payment of the balance, is reiterated in the return to the
mandamus. It is true, that he has not deferred tb the report of a
committee of the senate, nor even to a resolution of that respectable
body, as to a valid and mandatory law. Weaker, and perhaps wiser
men, would probably have yielded to an authority so imposing; but,
whatever may be .thought of the prudence of his conduct, his firmness of purpose should command our respect; and with unprejudiced
minds, will go far to evince the justice of his intentions. In calmer
times, it may also be seen that in insisting on the concurrence of
both branches of the legislature, and es':ecially of the house of representatives, as necessary to give to a resolution touching the public
treasure the force of law, he was really upholding a very important
part of the constitution.
Other instances might be mentioned of the like, and even greater
VOL. XI--4 E

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.)

injustice done by the other side to the plaintiff in error.. All'fair
construction of his motives had been denied; he had been stigmatized as the. relentless persecutor of unoffending anjl meritorious
citizens; the death, (not appearing on the record,) of one of the relators, had even been imputed to him: and to all this had been added
the still graver charge, of a desire to break down the judiciary
establishments; to destroy the safeguards provided by the constitution; and to subject the legislative will to the control of the executive. In the argument just concluded, all the powers of a very brilliant vituperative eloquence had been put in requisition, to bring
down upon his. head the indignation and abhorrence, which, in a
land of liberty and lawsi are justly felt towards a functionary truly
chargeable with delinquencies so enorious. That no part of this
accusatory matter was really called for by the case, is obvious; that
much of it wants even a shadow of support, has already been shown;
that any of it would be pressed upon this court, was not to have
been expected. This hall had been regarded as holy ground; and
the consoling reflection had been cherished, that within thes walls
one spot had been preserved, where questions of constitutioh~al law'
could be-discussed, with calmness of mind, and liberality of temper;
where the acts of a public servant might be subjected to free and
rigorous scrutiny, without any unnecessary assault upon his character; where, though his conduct were proved to be erroneous, purity
of motive might be conceded, till the contrary appeared; where it
was usually deemed repugnant to good taste, to offer as argument, the
outpourings of excited feeling, or the creations of an inflamed imagination; and where vehement invective and passionate appeals, even
though facts existed, which in some other forum .might justify their
use, were regarded as sounds unmeet for the judicial ear. That an
example so different from the tourse'which might have been hoped
for; an example so novel and unpropitious, should have been set on
the present occasion; was not less a subject of regret to him, than he
was sure it would be to all who reverenced the dignity of this Court,
and who wished to. perpetuate its usefulness and honour; and he
confidently trusted that the learned counsel themselves, when the
effervescence of professional zeal and exciting debate had passed
away, would participate in this feeling.
In replying to those parts of the opposing argument which belonged to the questions presented by the record, the attorney general said he would pursue an order somewhat different from that

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United Stateb.]

adopted by the other side. He would, first, look at the parties before the court; and, secondly, at the particular proceeding which
had been instituted, its nature and subject matter, and the purpose
desired to be accomplished by it. Under these two general heads,
all the material poiits insisted on for the defendants in error, would
be brought under review; and the conclusion, he trusted, would be,
that the court below had no jurisdiction to award the writ.
1. The court below had not jurisdiction of the parties.
The idea of the court below, and which has also been insisted on
here, that the United States are to be regarded as the plaintiffs because
the ancient form of the writ has been used, is palpably untenable. The
real plaintiffs are the relators, who are residents of Maryland, and
Pennsylvania. The defendant was proceeded against in his official
capacity, as postmaster general, for the purpose of compelling him
to do an act exclusively official. The postmaster general, as a public
officer, is required to be a resident of the District of Columbia, and
may be found within it; but he is not so resident or found, within
the meaning of the fifth section of the act of the 27th of February,
1801. The words "betVeen parties, both or either of which shall
be resident, or shall be found within the district;" must be understood to mean, not parties universally, but all parties capable of suing
or being sued, who may be resident or found, &c. Foreign ministers, who are residents in the district; being incapable of being sued
in the courts of the district; are clearly not within the words of the
section. The postmaster general, or other head of a department, is
equally incapable of being sued, in his official character; because
there is no act of congress conferring such a -apacity. Such an act
is necessary to enable the postmaster general to sue in -his official
cltaracter. Osborn v. Bank United States, 9 Wheat. 825, 855, 856.-A fqrtiori, is it necessary to make him suable.
Again: The United States are the real parties defendants; the
object of the suit being to cancel balances in the treasury books, and
to reach public moneys in the treasury. It cannot be said here, as
in Cohens v. The State of Virginia, 6 Wheat. 407, 408, that the object is to get rid of a judgment recovered by the United States.
The original object of the proceeding was to charge the United
States. It is therefore, in effect, a suit against them. Such a suit,
independently of the general objection, that the government is not
suable, except when it chooses to waive its immunity in this respect;
could not be brought in the court below, for an additional reason.

SUPREME COURT.
Lkvendall v. The United States.1

The fifth section of the act of the 29th of, February, 1801, gives the
court jurisdiction of all actions or suits, of a civil nature, "in which
the United States shall be plaintiffs, or complainants." This express,
affirmative provision, necessarily excludes all cognizance of actions
against the United States; even if they were ;otherwise capable of
being sued.
It is no answer to the objections under this head, that they were
waived by the pppearance of the plaintiff in error, in the court below. That appearance was for the sole purpose of objecting to the
jurisdiction; and as no plea in abatement could be interposed, the
want of jurisdiction was assigned 'inthe return.
2. The court below had not jurisdiction of the subject matter of
the proceeding.
The applicatibn was for a peremptory mandamus to the postmaster general, in his official capacity. This officer, it is now admitted,
'is the head of one of the great executive departments. The court
below has no jurisdiction to award such a writ, to such an officer.
This Court has 'decided' that the ordinary circuit courts have no such
jurisdiction; not indeed in express words, but by decisions which
embrace'that proposition, and much more. .M'Intire v. Wood,. 7
Cranch, 504; and M'Cluny v. Silliman, 6 Wheat. 598, decide that
the ordinary circuit courts cannot issue a mandamus, as original process, even to a mere miristerial officer, much less can they do so to
an executive officer, the President, or the head of a department.
The circuit court of the District of Columbia, though it possesses
much jurisdiction which the other .courts have not, stands, in this
respect, on the same ground. The words of the fifth section of the
act of February 27th, 1801, so far as regards this question, are substantially the same as those of the eleventh section of the judic'ary
act of September, 1789, except that the latter includes the words
"concurrent with the courts of the several states;" which -words are
not in the act of 1801. These words, it is'said, restrict the .jurisdiction of the ordinary circuit courts to those cases over which the
state courts had jurisdiction,. in September, 1789; and thereby exclude cases arising -under the constitution, laws, and treaties of the
United States. And as the restriction is not contained in the District act of 1801, the argument is,, that the jurisdiction of the circuit
court of this district extends to all such cases, provided the parties
be resident or found within the district. Several of -the objections
to this doctrine, made in the opening, have not been answered by

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.-

the other side; and it is therefore the less needful to pursue it, The
reason for inserting this clause in the act of 1789, was to prevent
the 'doubt which might otherwise have arisen, as to the right of the.
state courts to decide, in 'suitable cases, questions growing out of the
constitution, treaties, atd laws of the United States. It was not inserted 'either to give jurisdiction to the state courts, or to restrict
the jurisdiction of the circuit courts; but simply to'exclude a conclusion. Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. '25 to 27. For that, purpose,
the clause was very proper in the act of 1789; but for .any purpose,
it would have been absurd in the act of 1801, for there are no state
courts in this district: and this, no doubt, was the sole cause of the
omission.
In support of this view, it is further said, that the subject matter
of the two laws is essentially different; the act of 1789 being designed to organize the courts of the United States, under the constitution alone; and the act of 1801 to furnish such additional .jurisdiction to the district 'courts, as was required by the local sovereignty
exercised over the district. This change of' circumstances undoubtedly demanded a much wider scope of judicial power; but this was
abundantly provided for, by adopting the laws of the states'; sec. 1;,
by extending the criminal jurisdiction of the circuit court t6 all
crimes and offences committed within the district; and by enlarging
the civil jurisdiction to all cases, in law and equity, between parties
resident or found within the district; instead of confining, as is done
in see. 11, of the act of'1789, the criminal jurisdiction to offences
against the laws of the United States, and the civil to certain suits
between citizens of different states, and other special cases.
The change of sovereignty did not require that the courts of this
district should possess a power denied to all the other courts of the
United States, to superintend anl control United States' officers appointed for the whole nation; nor can it be believed that congress
could reallyhave intended to confer such a power. It is said, how,ever, that they have actually given it, by continuing in force the laws
of Maryland; because, by those laws, a mandamus would lie to a
public officer, commanding the performance of a ministerial duty, as
well as in the cases-of corporations &c. No doubt, by virtue of the
adopted laws of Maryland and Virginia, and under its general jurisdiction, the circuit court of the districtinay rightfully issue the writ
of mandamus, in all cases of the same nature with those in which it
could have been issued by the '4aryland and Virginia courts, to any

SUPREME COURT.
.fKendall v. The United States.]

officer, tribunal, or corporation, within the district. In other words,
for the purposes of this question. the Maryland side of the district is
the state of Maryland; and the circuit court of the-disti ict now holds
the supervisory, power of the Maryland court, over all local officers
in respect to all matters arising in the district, which, from their nature and quality, would have been subject-to the supervision of the
Maryland courts, had the cession not been made. But the mere act
of adopting the Maryland laws, and of enabling the district courts
to administer them as they were administered by the Maryland
courts.; could not enable the former to apply those laws to officers of
the United States appointed for the whole nation, in respect to official acts affecting the interests of the whole nation. To authorize
such a stretch of power, there must be an express grant of jurisdiction by act of congress. Until such a law shall be passed, the local
courts, in this particular, will starnd on precisely the same ground as
the Maryland courts did before the cession. When congress sat in
New York, or Philadelphia, and the officers of the federal government resided there, they were not subject to the supervision, by
mandamus, of the courts of either of the states within whose territory
they resided. Suppose, then, a cession of the city of New York. or
of the city of Philadelphia, and an adoption of the state law; h6w
could that have altered the case? As to all matters of local concern,
like all other inhabitants, they would be subject to the adopted law:
but in their official capacities, they would still have remained, as they
were. before, exclusively subject to the authority of the general government, acting strictly'as such. Suppose this district had never
been ceded to thd United States, but the seat of the federal government established here, and all the other circumstances of the present
case to have occurred; could the Mbryland court have interfered, by
mandamus? Surely not. How then can that court, which has merely
taken the place of the Maryland court, claim, from that fact alone,
any greater jurisdiction? The case of The Columbian Insurance
Company v. Wheelwright, 7 Wheat. 534, so much relied on by the
other side, does not touch the point. That was a private corporation, not, growing out of, nor at all connected with the fcderal government, as such. It had, indeed, been created by an act of congress; but in this, congress acted as a local legislattire.under the cession; without Which such a corporation could not have been created
by the federal government. If the cession had not been made, the
Maryland legislature could have done precisely the same thing. But

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Xendallv. The United States.]

in creating the post office department, and the other executive departments, and in defining the duties of the officers employed in'
them, as well as in every other law concerning them, congress act
entirely irrespective of the cession. Though the officers -reside here,
yet had no cession been made, every one of these laws might have
been passed. On the other hand, if the district were yet subject to
the government of Maryland, that government cotild not have interfered, with the subjects, or with any of the officers concerned in
them.
It is very true, as contended by the learned counsel, that the
Maryland laws cannot be literally enforced here; that all the local
officers of the district derive-th'eir existence from acts of congress;
and that the Maryland law can only be applied to them by analogy:
but there is no difficulty in ascertaining the analogy, nor in applying
it. Informations in the nature of a quo warranto may beentertained, and writs of mandamus be issued, by virtue of theadopted law,
in every case; except where the duties of the officer exclusively grow
out of, and belong to the federal government. The present case
being peculiarly "one of this description, the .court below acquired no
jurisdiction over it from the mere adoption of the, state law. If it
has such jurisdiction, it must be derived in some other way.
The third section of the act of February 27th, 1801, cannot help
out the jurisdiction, even if that part of the act of February 13th, to
which it is said to refer, be regarded as yet in force; because this
section refers only to the powers, and not to the jurisdiction of the
court. The distinction between jurisdiction, or cognizance of a
court, and the powers or means by which it exercies and enforces
-its jurisdiction,'is a sound and familiar one, and is distinctly marked
in all the judiciary acts; and among others, in this very act of the
27th .of February, 1801, as the court below has itself decided in
former cases. Again: there being no special reference to the act of
February 1.3th, the provisions of that law were not so incorporated
in the act of February 2.7th, as to require a special repeal in reference to this district; and when the act of February 13th was repealed, and the act of 1789 revived, and put in force in its stead,
with what propriety can it be said that any part of the repealed law
is yet in force? And how unreasonable to suppose, that congress,
could have intended to leave the repeal imperfect, and to create and
keep up an anomalonis and unnecessary.distinction between the courts
in and out of this d i#.rict? The cases mentioned by the learned

SUPREME COURT
[Kendall v. The United States.]

counsel, of English statutes' spec.ally referred to and adopted by
Maryland statutes; and in respect to which the Maryland courts
haye correctly held that the subsequent repeal of the English statute
does not alter the law of Maryland; differ from the present case in
several essential particulars. Not to speak of other differences, the
repeal was not made by a legislative act intended to apply, or capable of applying to the state of Maryland; whilst here, the act of
February 13th, if adopted in the ict of February 27th, was also repealed by the same authority.
The jurisdiction of the court below, so far as regards the present
case, depends then on the words of the fifth section of the act of
February 27th, 1801. These words are, in substance, neither more
nor less than the corresponding words in section eleventh of the act
of 1789; and even if the judicial' construction of that section, in
M'Intire v. Wood, and M'Cluny v. Silliman, be inapplicable to the
present law; still it has not been shown that the claim of the relators
is a "ease in law or equity." If we give to the law the broad construction on which the learned counsel insist, they cannot establish
the jurisdiction of the court, unless they can also prove that the case
presented in the petitin was a "case in law or equity;" in other
words, a controversy of a forensic, nature, which, according to the established principles and forms of judicial proceedings, was properly
referrible for discussion, and decision to the judicial tribunals. The
attorney general referred to the argument of his associate on this
point; which, he remarked, had not been answered, nor even attenmpted to be answered; except by the allegation so often reiterated $ but
not proved, that, the relators had an absolute, fixed. and un conditional
legal right to the credits in question, the duty of entering which,
was imposed on the postmaster general, as q mere ministerial act.
If this were indeed so, then a "ease in law or equity!' had been presented, and the. mandamus will be the proper remedy; if there be no
other appropriate means of redress, and the court has received -authority to issue it. But the position is untenable.
The relators claim under the special act of July 2d, 1836. They
do not refer to, nor could they claim under any prior act. The attorney general agreed that the relators were deeply interested in
the benefits proposed to be conferred by this law, and also that the
good faith of. the nation was pledged to secure to them all those benefits; unless it should be found that by some fraud, or material error, congress were induced to grant what they would not otherwise

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States'.]

593

have given. ]But it is not every interest, nor' even every-interest
which is.
guarantied by -the faith 'of the nation, which is to be dignified by the name of a vested legal right. If the interest be &ubjet
to, any contingency by which the, right to its enjoyment can be cut
off, it is rn0t regarded, in law, as,a yested legal right..' Now the rights
conferred by the act of July 2d, 1836, were subject to such a contingency. They were subject to the power of congress, -at any time,
before the actual entering of the credit, to amend, alter, or repeal
the law. After the cre'dit should be entered, congress could not depiive the'parties of it; because there is no power, which after a fact
has .happened, can cause such fact not to have happened.: But -at
arty time Prior to. the actual entering of the, credit, congress had the
power to alter or repeal the law., This power was not reserved /in
terms in the law; nor was it necessary to be so reserved. :It
results
from the nature of the ease. There ws no'contract, made or tendered by the law. The'relators were to. do - no, meritorious act
under it. It was an act of relief, ofgrace, and favour to them. The
proeedings before the solicitor were not. like a suit in a regularly
organized court; nor was his award like - judgment of such a court,
so as to be out of the reach of the legislative power. It was-the Ordinary case of a law extending a favour or bounty to a party;" and as
,to all such laws, congress have, a lotus penitento so long as the
law is unexecuted. The judiciary committee of the senate had no
doubt as to the power of congress to repeal the law; though they
thought it should' not he exercised. This is decisive of the case. If
congress had, and if they yet have, the power to modify, or repeal 'at
pleasure, the act under which.'the relators claim; then it is not a case
for the courts of justice at all, or at least not a case for a mandamus.
All the authorities show, and~ the learned counsel themselves admit,
that to entitle aparty to this writ he' must show that he has an absolute legal right to some specific thing. But Where the interest'of a
party is liable to be thus affected by the action of the legislature, it
is-an abuse of terms to call it a fixed or vested right. It would, indeed, be a strange kind of absolute vested legal right, which is thus
liable to -bedefeated. . That the legislature have not interfered, is fio'
answer to this argument; it is enough that they have a lawful power
to do so.
Nor Was the duty imposed on the, postmaster general by the law
of 1836 a mere ministerial duty, like that of the clerk of a court,
in recording a judgment, giving copies,,&c., to which it has been
VOL. XII.-4 F

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]
compared. It involved an examination of the award, to see that the
solicitor had not exceeded his authority, either in giving too wide a
scope to the enacting clause, or in violating the provisos. Nothing
can be plainer than that if either were done, the: award, pro tanto,
Would be void; precisely like that of any other arbitrator, whose
award exceeds the submission. Suppose the solicitor had made allowances where there was no contract? Or for other contracts than
those described in the law? Or had made allowances contrary to
the provisos? Will any one contend, that the postmaster general,
seeing these violations of the law on the face of the award, was yet
bound to give the credits thus illegally allowed? If his'duty was
merely ministerial, if he possessed no authority to look into the
award, as contended by the other side; then, however palpable the
errors of the solicitor, and however excessive the allowances made
by him, the credit is to be given. It would seem to be impossible,
that such could have been the, design of congress. It was clearly
the duty of the solicitor to confine his allowances within the authority conferred on him by the law; and if so, it was as clearly incumbent on some one, before the credit was given, and the money drawn
out of the treasury, to see that the allowances did not extend beyond
the law. Who was to do this.? In the first instance, at least, the
postmaster general; because on him was specially devolved the duty
of execatiog the award. Ex necessitate, therefore, he must look into
ib and compare it with the law. Even the other side were compelled to admit this; they concede, too, that some -preliminary examination, was necessary, to enable him to ascertain the precise duty to
be perfoxmed. This concession brings the case within the principle
of the Commonwealth ex rel. Griffith v. Cochran, 5 Binney, 87,
cited in the opening. According to that case'and the whole current
of authorities, where such a special tribunal is created by statute,
without giving to the courts, in express terms, any power to super'vise and control the action of the officer; all that they can do by
mandamus, is, to compel the officer to take up the subject, and to act
upon it; they cannot instruct him how to act. If the officer -acts
corruptly, he is liable to a private action, at the suit of the party injurqd; and to indictment, if he decides erroneously: the only remedy, in ordinary cases, is by a further appeal to the legislature;
though under the constitution of the United States, if the duty be
devolved on an executive officer, his action may indirectly be reached and affected by the President.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The Urlited States.]

Itis in this view of the case, that the constitutional question, is
to the power of congress to clothe the judiciary with authority to
direct and control the executive,.is supposed to arise. The doctrines of his associate and himself, on this head, and more especially
those Stated by the postmaster general in his return, had been denounced by the other side, as equally novel, unfounded, and alarming. Strong, and, perhaps, incautious expressions, had -been quoted
from that return; and by separating them from their -context, and
not attending to the fact, that the writer set out with the position
that the duty imposed on'him by the law, was an executive and not
a ministerial duty, those expressions were made to bear a meaning
which their author could never have designed. The like remark is
to be made of the comments on the opinion of the attorney general,
and on the opening argument.
In regard tW this branch of the case, the attorney general said,
that he could not consent to be held responsible for any language or
reasoning except his own; and that he must protest against the version which had been given to hia official, otinion. That document,
on some of the points: discussed in it, might well be found to be
erroneous; for it embraced questions by no meatis of easy solution,
And in respect-to which the most enlightened and upright might
'fairly differ, But as to the constitutional views presented by it, he
could not apprehend any serious diversity of opinion among persons,
tolerably familiat with constitutional law; provided th6 points intended to b6. discussed, were first clearly understood, and then carefully
kept in view. 'He had not denied, and did not intend fo deny; on the
contrary he fully admitted, the constitutional power of congress to
invest the proler courts of the United States with jurisdiction to
issue writs of mandamus to any ministerial officer of the United
States, to compel the performance of his duty. And as the ordinary
character of an officer's fuhnetibns would not always determine the
true nature of a particular duty imposed by law, lie further agreed,
that if an executive officer, the head" of a deport6ient, or even the
President himself, wer&required, by law, to perform an act merely
ministerial, and necessary to the completion or enjoyment of the
rights of individuals, he should be regarded, quoad hoc, not .s an
executive, but as a merely ministerial officer; ,nd therefore liable to
be directed and compelled to the performance of the act, by mandamus, if congress saw fit to give the jurisdiction. In short, he had
no controversy Nith the court below, nor with the learned counsel

SUPREME COURT
[Kendall v. TheUnited Ptates.)

for the relators, .in respect to the power: of congress to authorize the
circuit court of this district,,or any other tribunal, inferior to the
Supreme Court, to award a mandamus to the postmaster. general, in
precisely such a case, as that now under discussion; if it be really
true as contended by the court below, and by the other side, that
the law of July, 1.836, imposes on the postmaster' general the performance of a merely ministerial act or duty. The official opinion
of June 19th, 1837, begins with the statement that the case was
one in which an official duty, relating to claims depending in the
post office department, growing out of contracts made with that
department, i~posed on its head by his name of office; and in every
sense an official, executive duty, was sought to be enforced by mandamus. This statement, he thought, had not been successfully impeached; and if well founded, it naturally led to the, constitutional
objection, by which it was merely affirmed that congress cannot
"confer on any court of the United States the power to supervise,
and control the action of an executive officer of the United States,
in any official matter, properly appertaining to the executive department in.
which he is employed." The remainder of the opinion is
devoted to the establishment and illustration of this precise and limited proposition. The argument was chiefly rested on the distribution of the powers of government between three independent -departmpnts; the vesting of the executiye power in the President, and.
the duty imposed on him of taking care that the laws be faithfully'
executed. How has this argument been met by the other side? 'By
imputing to us the most extravagant doctrines in regard to the extent of the executive power; and'by maintaining, on their own part,
doctrines equally extravagant.
When we say that the constitution gives to the President the'
whole executive piower, the learned counsel represent us as contending that all executive power, whether conferred, by the consti-.
tution or not; all 'executive power which, in any age of the world,
and under any form of government, has- been vested in the chief
executive functionary, is vested in the President of the United
States: and they argue with great warmth against this notion, a notion too preposterous, to need refutation. What we say is, that all
the executive power of the limited federal government created by
our constitution: not the executive power of Great Britain, Russia,
or Turkey: is vested, with certaih specified exceptions, in the President; And we' mean by this, precisely what is meant when it is

JANUARY TERM, 1838
[Kendall v. The United States.]

said, that all the legislative power of this government is vested in
congress, subject to the qualified veto of the President; or when it
is said, that all the judicial power conferred by the constitution, is
vested in this Court and the other courts of the United States; and

no more.
The proposition, even as thus limited, is den6unced by the othel
side as slavish in the extreme, although they admit that it is not entirely new. It was first broached, say the counsel, by Gen. Hamilton, in the Letters of Pacificus, but was promptly refuted by Mr.
Madison, in Helvidius, 'and has, since remained dormant. Never
did gentlemen fall into a greater mistake. That all the executive
power proposed to exist in the new government was to be vested in
the President; was objected' by the opponents, and explicitly admitted by the advocates of the federal constitution, when that instrument was under discussion before the people. Gen, Hamilton, in
the Federalist, acknowledged that this was the effect and design of
the constitution, but vindicated the arrangement. See Federalist,
'os.
69, 70 and 71. This doctrine was also announced and established by the congress of 1789, in the debates relative to the power
of removal, referred to in the opening. It was the very pivot on
which that famous discussion turned. The subject had been considerably discussed before Mr. Madison engaged in the debate.
From the moment he entered it, we perceive the presence of a superior intellect, possessing unequalled advantages of knowledge and
experience, and displaying itself in the clearest analysis of the principles'and meaning of the constitution. He was the first speaker
who referred to that clause which declares that the "executi ve power
shall be vested in the President." From that provision, and from the
direction that the President "shall take care thatthe laws be faithfully
executed," he deduced the conclusion, that it was "evidently the
intention of the constitution, that the first magistrate should be responsible for the executive department."
4 Elliot's Debates, 148. He
showed that this principle of unity and responsibility was necessary
to preserve that equilibrium which the constitution intended; and to
prevent a direction towards aristocracy on the one side or anarchy
on the other, 4 Elliot, 176: and that to give effect to these principles,
the' capacity to superintend and control the subordinate officers of
the executive department, through the power of removal, had been
left in thePresident alone. 4 Elliot, 147 to 150, 176 to 183, and
201 to 203. In these views, a large majority of both houses con-

59,8

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States,]

curred; the senate conceding the power against ,itsdlf: so that, if this
doctrine as to the poWer of removal be really an unwarrantable, interpolation, as the learned counsel say it is, it,
must be 'barged
on the fathers of the repulblie. But, Whether the particular question,
as to the power of removal wascorrectly decided or not; no one, irt
that debate, disputed the position of Mr. Madison and his associates,
that the constitution had actually vested in the Presidelit the whole
executive power. On the contrary, Messrs. Gerry and others, of
the minority, expressly conceded it; though they contended, either
that the executive power did not include the power of removal; or if
it-did include it, that in analogy to the power of appointment, it could
only be exercised with the consent of. the senate. This latter idea
had indeed been suggested by Gen. Hamilton, in the 77th No. of
:the ederalist; though, as has been: seen, he had previously'laid it
down, in prior numbers of that work, and in the strongest terms,
,that the whol& executive power was vested, in the President. The
whole, course of this debate, independently of the conclusion to
which it came, is, therefore, utterly irreconeilable with the recent
suggestion adopted and maintained by our learned adversaries; thr',
when the constitution says, "the executive. power shall be 'vested in
- President," it only gives a name to the department, and merely
means that he shall possess such executive power as the legislature
shall choose to confer upon him.
The doctrine stated in-Pacificus, published in 1793, was, theretbre,
nothing, new. It was merely repeating what Gen. Hamilton had
himself said before the *adoption of the constitution,'and what had
been admitted on 'all sides, in the debate of 1789. Nor was it denied by.Mr. Madison, in the letters of Helvidius; nor,, indeed,
could he venture to dispute. it after the part taken by him in former
'discussions.' He. several times admits it in terms, and constantly by
implication; but contends, in opposition to Pacificus, that the power
to issue a proclamation of neutrality was included, in the power of
making war and peace, and therefore belonged to'the legislatureoand
not to the executive. See pages 696 to 601, Appendix to Washington ed. of Federalist. This view of the constitution, so far, also,
from remaining dormant since 1793, as alleged by the learned couneel, has been announced in every text book on the constitution published since that time, and in every decision of 'this Court in which
the point has been discussed, as was abundantly shown in the
opening.

JANUARY TERM, i8m8.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

We are able, also, to answer the call so loudly made, for some
decision of the state courts, in which it has been held, that similar
words, in a state constitution, vest in a governor the executive power.
The precise point was adjudged in the Commonwealth v. Bussier, 5
$erg. & R. 451, on the Constitution of Pennsylvania.
In regard to the President's responsibility for the officers of the
executive department, and his power to supervise and control them,
we intend, to assert only what was admitted in the Federalist, and
maintained by Mr. Madison, and those who concurred with him in
the debates of 1789; and nothing more than-has beer understood by
every President, from Washington inclusive, to belong to the high
trust with which he is clothed. In the writings of Washington, recently published, his habit of directing all the heads of departments
in the discharge of their duties, constantly appears. Nor does the
idea, suggested by the court below, and before advanced by others,
that the secretary of the treasury was not subject to this direction
to so great an extent as the other heads of departments, derive, any
countenance from this correspondence. On the contrary, it will be
,seen, that on one occasion, Gen.-Hamilton complained that President
Washington did not take so large a share of the responsibility of
some fiscal arrangements as the secretary thought he ought to bear.
Sparks' Writings of Washingtdn, vol. 10, p. 396, 554.
When,
therefore, the learned counsel affirm that the principle is now, for the
first time, broadly asserted; they speakc, to say the least, with very
little historic accuracy. And 'when they represent us as pressing it
to the, extent of claiming for the President a power to direct, instruct,
and control every officer appointed by hini, judges as well as others,
they show a great want of perspicuity on our part, or of attention on
theirs., Our position is' confined to the executive department; we
speak of that alone; and we affirm, equally with the other side, the
absolute independence of the judiciary, when proceeding in its appropriate sphere.
The practicql inferences supposed by the other side to result-from
this doctrine, we must also repudiate. W.here the President has
controlled and directed the' action of the inferior executive officer,
they contend that the inferior is not responsible; and, as the President's liability to private action has been doubted, there will then,
it is. said, be no responsibility. The answer is, that wh~never the
President takes an active part in an illegal action, to the injury of
an individual, though it be done by the hand ofhis subordinate, he

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

will be responsible in a civil. suit, along with that subordinate: and
that the latter cannot be excused for doing an unlawful act, by
pleading the command of his official superior. This is the rule of thp
common law, in the analogous case of master and servant. 1 Black.
Com. 430. The subordinate officer is not, obliged to do any act
which he believes, to be unlawful; if the President insists on it, he
may. resign, or refuse, and take the chance of a removal.
Nor do we claim for the President any po'Wer to forbid or dispense with the execution of an act of congress, even though it relate
to matters purely, executive; nor haye we ever affirmed that a citizen, interested in. the execution of such an act, is obliged to submit
his claims to the arbitrary determination of that functionary. It was
with great propriety that the learned counsel, when bringing this
charge against his associate and himself, had referred to the malieiopu
and unsypported accusation made by a toryhouse of commons against
one, of the- best patriots and soundest constitutional lawyers England
ever produced,-Lord Somers. What we say is, that where congress
pass a law, for' the guidance and government of the executive, in
matters properly -concerning the executive department, it belongs "to
the President to take care 'that this law be faithfully executed; and
in Pacificus,
we apply to such a case ,the remark of Gen. Hamilton,
that" he who is to execute the laws, must first judge for himself of
th eir meaning." Pacificus, Ltter 1st. If, therefore, the executive
be dearly satisfied as to the meaning of such a -aw, it-ia his bounden
duty to see that the subordinate officers of his department conform'
'with fidelity to that meaning; for no other execution,.however pure
the motive from which it springs, is a faithful execution'of the law.
In a case of this kind, one which thus concerns the-proper executive
business of tlce nation, we do indeed deny the power of the judiciary
to interfere in advance, and.to instruct the executive officer how t
act for the benefit of an individuaL-whG may-have anriinterest in the
subject; but We hold that every officer, from the lowest to the highest, who, in executing such a law, 'violates the, legal rights of any
individual,'is liable to private action; and, if his act pr6ceed from
corrupt motives, to impeachment, and, in some cases, to indictment
also. And we. also agree, as has already been admitted, that when
an act of congress imposes on an officer of the executive departvnent,
for the benefit of a private party, a duty purely ministerial, the per
formance of that duty may be coerced by mandamus, by any court
to 'which the necessary jurisdiction shall have been given.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United Stdtes.]

Another of the practical inferences imputed to his associate and
himself, related to the capacity .of the judiciary department to execute its judgments. A strong and somewhat unguarded expression
in the return of the plaintiff in error, had been made the theme of
much animadversion;- the comments which it was supposed to justify, were extended to the official opinion of the attorney general;
and this latter document, it was said, pressed the argument to an
extent which would 'deprive the courts of the power to issue any
process, or exercise any jurisdiction whatsoever. As suggested in
a former part of the argument, the language of the postmaster general had received an interpretation which -Was doubtless repugnant
to the meaning of its author: but hawever this might be, the attorney general, speaking for himself, could truly say, that the sentiments imputed to him were never designed to be expressed; and on
a fair construction of his language, he did not think they could be
found in his official opinion. Having adopted the impression,
whether correctly or not it was not for him to say, that the duty
assigned to the postmaster general by the special act of July, 1836,
was aot a mere ministerial duty; but a duty
which appertained to
the regular official business of the department, as a branch of the
executive; the opinion proceeded. to show that the writ of mandamus could not be issued to the head of an ex'ecutive department,
to instruct and direct him in the performance of an official executive
duty. Among other arguments, the inability of the judiciary to
enforce any commands they might address to the executive officers,
was insisted on, and illustrated by the supposed case'of the officer
refusing to obey the mandamus; and on his being committed to
prison for the contempt, the President's removing him from office,
and so defeating, ad infinitum, if he pleased, the execution of, the
writ; thus showing, that without the' corsent of the executive, a
peremptory mandamus to an executive officer must forever remain
inoperative. If this argument be confined, as was intended, to the
case of a mandamus commanding the performance of an act strictly
executive; no one, it is believed, can prove it to be unsound. To
mark still more clearly the class of cases referred to, and to show
that the independence and completeness of the judicial power, were.
not intended to be impugned; it was carefully observed, that "in
cases which properly refer themselves to the judiciary, it is rarely or
never possible to defeat, in this way, the ultimate execution of the
judgment of the court:" a passage, by the way, which the learned
VOL. XII.-.. G

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The Uhited States:]

counsel in their animated comments on this part of the opinion,
had strangely overlooked. He, therefore, entirely agreed with his
learned adVersories, that in all cases to which the judicial power extended, neither the executive nor the legislature could, rightfully,
interfere with the judgments of the courts, much less "strike dead
It was, perhaps, to
their process, in the hands of the marshal."
prevent any abuse of the power of removal by the executive, as
well as to avoid inconvenience and delay, that the provision referred
to by the other side, and by the court below, authorizing the marshal, though removed, to execute any process in his hands; was
inserted in the act of 1789. This provision, however, does not
apply to a mandamus: which is directed, not to the marshal, but to
the officer who is to do the act required; and if that officer-be the
head of an executive department, there is, and there can be, no law
to prevent the President from removing him at pleasure,
With this notice of some of the strictures on his official opinion,
he was content to leave the general exposition of his views, on this
branch.of the case, to that paper: and would proceed to consider the
doctrine, so strenuously pressed, that under the constitution of the
*United States, it is competent for congress, if they think proper, to
empower the judiciary to supervise, direct and control, any officer
of the executive department, in respect to any matter whatsoever.
The learned counsel were driven to this extremity in order to sus,tain the judgment of the court below, in the event of its being held,
that the duty assigned to the postmaster general was not a ministerial
but an executive one. The constitution, say the learned counsel,
does not expressly except any officer of the United States, or any
act of any such officer, from the general grant of judicial power;
and, therefore, the legislature may extend that power to every such
officer and act: and, indeed, should do so, in order that the judicial
power may be coextensive with the operation of the other departments. The post office department, they further say, and all the
officers employed in it, including its head, derive their existence
from acts of congress passed in pursuance of the constitution: and
the power which creates these officers may subject them to the stpervision of the judiciary, and may empower the.judiciary to direct
and control them ...
The like power to authorize the judiciary to direct and.control, in advance,- the action of the executive officers, was
endeavoured tO be inferred, from the admitted fact, that these officers
were liable,, as individuals, to private action and to indictment; and.

JANUARY TERM,
[Kendall

Y.

18.38.

%08

The United Stales.]

that. this liabiliiy had often -been declared and enforced by act of
congress. This doctrine may, .rndeed, be pronodnced not only novel,
but utterly repugnant, to the theory of the constitution; and to the
best considered and most authoritative expositions of its meaning,
In the note td Ilayhurn's case, 2 Dall. 409, the reasons of the judges
of the circuit courts, 'including all the judges of this Court, for, not
executing the pension act of the 23d of March, 179., are given at
length. The New York circuit court; consisting of chief j.pstice
Jay, Cushing Justice, and Duane, Distric.t judge, were "unanimously
of opinion, and agreed, that by the constitution of the United States,
the government thereof is divi'ded into three distinct and independent branchei; and that it is thp duty of each to abstain from, and to
oppose encroachments on either. That neither the legislative nor
the executive branches can constitutionally assign to the judicial any
duties, hut such as are properly judiciW, and to be perfbrmed in a
judicial manner." The judges in the other circuits ekpressed the
same propositioni though in somewhat different words; and they all
concurred in treating the law as unconstitutional, and in declining
the fuictions assigned them, because they were not of a judicial nature. The axiom thus laid down by this high authority, an axiom
plainly resulting from the distribution of. powers made by the con
stitution, overthrows, from the foundation, all this part of the opposing argument. The attorney general said, that he had always
regarded ;the opinions of the judges in the pension case, as entitled
to the very highest respect. They were founded on the maturest
deliberation; and were uttered very soon after the organization of
the government, and before political parties had .been formed with
reference to any particular construction of the constitution. When
his own views as to the independence of the different departments
were denounced by his learned adversaries as revolutionary and disorganizing; he was consoled by the reflection, that the like charge
had been insinuated, :and even by the incumbent of the office he had
the honour to fill, against the opinions above 'quoted. See letter of
attorney general Randolph to President. Washington, of August 5th,
1792, 1.0 Sparks' Writings of Washington, 513. The fame of Chief
Justice Jay and his associates, had not been injured by these strictures; and those who merely repeat their language are equally secure
against any permanent injustice.
As to the numerous cases cited from the English book, and from
our own reports, in which actions for damages had been brought

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United Sajes.]

against public officers of all descriptions, for acts done by them in
their official capacities; it was sufficient to say, that the liability of
every officer of this government to private action and to public prosecution, in appropriate cases, had been repeatedly conceded. But
none of these cases touch the point now in dispute; for no one of
them involves any attempt, on the part of the curt, to direct the
officer i n the performance of his duty. This, it is said, has been
done in the injunction cases cited from 4 Simons, 13; 6 Peters, 470;
and 6 Simons, 214; and other cases of the like nature. It will be
seen, however, that in the first of these cdses, 4 Simons, 13, the injunction was :issued to restrain the commissioners of woods and
forests, from erecting a building in violation of an agreement entered
into by them with the plaintiffs, to whom they had leased an adjoining tract; and that in all the others the real controversy was between individuals, litigating in relation to moneys held by the trea-,
sury officers as trustees or stockholders; moneys received under
treaties, &c., and not belonging- to the government, but to one or
other of the litigating parties. Injunctions to-the treasury officers
are issued by the courts of equity, in' these latter cases, on the same
principle on which they are issued, in analogous cases, to banks .and
other depositaries; that is to preserve the funds in controversy until
the party really entitled can be ascertained. When- such injunctions
are served on the secretary of the treasury, they are usually observed; but it has not been supposed that they were obligatory.
When this case was before the court below, it was urged as a
strong reason against the application that no instance-could be found
in the English books in which a mandamus "had been issued to any
officer of the executive departments." The learned counsel could not
then produce any such case, and the court conceded that they had
not found any. The King v. The Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, 5 Neville and Manning, 589, a case, not in the country where
this controversy began, is now referred 'to as one of this description.
It was there admitted, on all sides, that a mandamus had never been
issued to' such officers; and, though the writ was awarded, all the
judges put it expressly on the ground that the money in question
had been appropriated by parliamcnt for the use of the relator, and
had been drawn out of the treasury and placed in the hands of a paymaster appointed by the defendants, and subject to their order; and
.that they were to be so copsidered as mere trustees or stockholders,
of moneys belonging, no, to the public, but to the relator. Neville's

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall-v. The United States.]

case, Plowden, 377; the Banker's case, 14 Howell's State Trials, and
the other cases of petitions to the barons of the exchequer, depend on
the political organization and functions of the English exchequer;
and the writs issued in'those cases to the treasury officers, are not to
be confounded with the prerogative writ of mandamus, which can
only emanate from the king's bench. In the New York case, 10
Wendell, 25, the mandamuis was directed to the canal commissioners;
officers charged, it is true, with the care of a very important public
work, but not a part of the state executive. In principle, their functions were precisely like those of surveyors, and commissioners of
highways and sewers; ministerial officers, to whom writs of fnan-.
damus have dften been directed in England.
Several of the other cases cited from the state courts, are of the
like nature; and no one of them assumes a power to direct dn executive officer in the discharge of a matter properly appertaining to
his official functions. In the Tennessee case cited in the opening, 1
Cooke, 214, such a power was expressly disclaimed. And in 5 Binney, 105, Chief Justice Tilghman refused a mandamus to the state
treasurer, because it would b but another mode of suing the commonwealth; thus applying the maxim of common sense and good
morals, that what the law will not allow you to do directly, you
shall not attempt to do indirectly. But English' cases, and even
cases from our state courts, hoi ,ever useful in furnishing principles
and analogies, cannot determine a question arising on the constitution of the United States. Aware of this, the learned counsel had
chiefly relied on the cases of Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137;
M'Intire v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 504; and M'Cluny v. Sillimn, 6 Wheat.
598. In the first of these, it was said, the broad principle had been
established, that in all cases where an individual was interested in
the discharge of an official act, by an execdtive officer, the writ of
mandamus was the appropriate remedy to compel the performance
of such act; and the other cases were referred to as confirming this
doctrine. In regard to these authorities, the attorney general referred to the observations in his official opinion in the record, and to
the opening argument; and conceded, that if Chief Justie Marshall
was correct, in considering the appointment of Marbury as complete,
by the signing and sealing of the comnission, and in holding that he
thereby. acquired a vested legal right to the olfice, ahd to the commission as the evidence of it, and that the secretary held the commission as a mere depositary, for the personal and exclusive benefit

SUPREME COURT.
(Kendall v. The United-States.)

of Marbury; there could then be. no doubt that a mandamus inight
be issued, consistently enough with th constitution: because the
.delivery of the commission would-,in that case, be a mere ministerial act, and the secretary of state, quoad hoc, a mere' ministerial
officer.
In this view of the case, he assented, to the comment of Justice
Story, that no lawyer could'doubt the power of congress to authorize the proper courts to issue a mandamus in such a case; and to the
similar declaration of Justice Johnson, in 6 Wheat.; and of Justice
Thompson, in 1 Paine. This however falls veiy far short.of the
doctrine now under consideration, a doctrine which, claims for the
legislature the power to confer on the' courts of justice unlimited authority to supervise and control executive officers, in all 'matters whatsoever. In support of this position, the 13th section of'the . judicial
act of 1789, had been invoked as a legislative declaration that writs
of mandamus might be issued t6 any officers of the United States,
executive as well as others. And it was said, that although this section had been decided in Marbury v. Madison to. be unconstitutional,
as attempting to 'give to the Supreme Court an original jurisdiction in
this respect; yet that it was erititled to respect in the, point now under discussion. Independently of -any other answer, it was enough
to say that the section confined the Writ to cases "warranted by the
principles and usages of law:" that the principles of la7 forbid the
issuing of a manddmus, except in casbs strictly of judicial cognizance;
arid especially forbid the interference of courts of.justice with executive functions: and that the usages in England and in this country,
are in accordance with these principles. In the cases of The United
States v. Arredondo and others, 6 Peters, 763; 9 Peters, 172, &c., the
United States, in order to execute'the stipulations for the protection
of private property contained in the Florida treaty, consented to appear in court at the suit of the claimant; gave the courts ample auttority to decide on the validity of claims under the treaty; and empowered them when a claim was established, to issue a mandate to a
ministerial officer to make the necessary survey and 'execution of the
decree. .The irrelevancy of this procedure to the present discussion
is obvious. Nor did this part of the opposing argument'derive any
support from any of the post office laws to which the learned counsel had referred; there being no provision in the sections which had
been quoted, which empowered the judiciary to interfere, in any
way, except, by taking cognizance of suits regularly instituted.

'JANUARY TERM, 1838.

607

[Kendall v. The United States.]

In, conclusion , the attorney general insisted, that evernif the postpiaster general could properly be regarded in this case 9s a mere ministerial officer, adid if the relators could be considered as having a
vested legal right to the credits in question;-' still the coutit below had
no jurisdiction-to issue the mandamus, because its authority in this
respect was no greater than that of the ordinary circuit courts. It wasdeserving of notice that no attempt had been made by-the other side
to explain how it happened that this' extended jurisdiction had never
before, been exercised or asserted; although cases calling for its exercise must frequently have' occurred.
But suppose this objection out of the way; suppose the jurisdiction clear, and the legal right of the relators, to the credits -claimed
by them admitted; yet the court erred in awarding the mandamus. Itis not every case of the denial of a vested lgal right, which
is to be redressed by this writ. It must appear that there is no other
specific legal iemedy. -In the present case, if the rights of the relators be such as their counsel represent, an action on the case will
plainly lie. This is conceded. But'*e are told, that the recovery in
suchan action, will be only for the damages prior to the commencement- of the suit, and that they will be obliged to bring new suits ad
infinitum.. This, however, cannot be necessary, if in. the first action
the' plaintiff choose to'go for, the total damages. Then it is said,
that the damages may not be collected; a.nd if collected, that the relators will not. get the specific thing, the entry of the credits. This
objection might have been made in each of the cases cited in the
opening, where the liability of the defendant to an action on the case,
was held a sufficient reason for denying the mandamus.
Nor does it follow, even if the ultimate effciencyof the legal remedy by action'be really doubtful, that a mandamus is to be issued.
This is not one of those writs which is demandable of strict right:
the courts exercise a sound, legal discretion, irk awarding it. 'Being.
founded on the prerogative of the crown, the English court of king's
bench will not issue it, unless there be a real necessity for,'it. There
.must be a nodus, and ond, too, dignus vendice; or the court will not
interp6se. This discretion the court below was bound to exercise:
and if this Court see that they have violated it, the judgment may,
and should be reversed. Now, it appears by the record not only
that congress have full power to settle this whole controversy, and
to give to the relators all they claim; but that they have applied to
congress for relief, and that their application is still pending. In this

SUPREME COURT.
,4Kendall v. The. United States.]

posture of the case) is it discreet for ,the court to interfere by mandamus? Suppose a resolution by the directors of a bank, or other
monied corporation, instructing their cashier to pay certain moneys
to a creditor of the corporation; the cashier makes ,a question as to
the meaning of the resolution and refers the party to the directors
for further instruction; suppose the party to apply to them, but, before his applicatioi is decided, to ask for a' mandamus; would it be a
sound exercise of legal discretion to interfere? Would not the )arty
be told that he had selected his remedy, and that he must pursue it
to a conclusion, before he could ask for this- prerogative writ? Bu!
the relators say, that congress will not pass any further law. How
,can this be judicially knqwn? ; And why will not congress pass a
further law? Because,, say the. relators,' they consider the case "so
very plain that no new law is necessary. This; one would think
would justify an expectation directly the, reverse. At any rate the
subjecthaving been -actually referred to congress, by, the executive;
and the relators having gone tothat body, it would seem to be manifestly indiscreet, and improper, for the courts to interfere until some
more serious attempt be made to obtairf the direction of that depai'tment to which the disposition of the public,'treasure peculiarly belongs.
Mr. Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinion of the Court:
This case comes up on a writ of error from the circuit court of the
United States for the District of Columbia, sitting for the county of
Washington.This case was l5rought before the court below by petition, setting
out certain contracts made between the relators and the late'postmaster general, upon which they claimed certain credits and allowances upon their contracts for the transportation of the mail. That
credits and allowances were duly made by the late postmaster general. That the present postmaster general when he cameinto office,
re-examined the contracts entered into'with his predecessor,-and theallowances made by him, and the credits arid payments which had
been made; and directed that the allowances and credits should be
withdrawn, and the relators recharged with divers payments they
had received. That the relators presented a memorial to congress
o.n the subject, upon Which a law was passed on the 21st of July,
1-836. for their relief; by which the solicitor of the. treasury, was
auth ri7z.ed and directed to settle and adjust the claims of the relatbrs

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

609

[Kendall Y, The United States,]

for extra-services performed.by them; to inquire intuand determine
the equity of such claims; and to ,make the relators such allowance
therefor, as upon full' examination of all the evidence may seem
right, according. to the principles of equity. And that the postmastex
general'be, and he is hereby directed to credit the relators with whatever sum or sums of, money, if any, the solicitor shall so decide to
be due tothem, for and, on account of any such service or contract.
And the petition further sets out, that the solicitor, Virgil Maxcy,
assumed upon, himself the performance of the duty and authority
created and conferred upon him by the law, and did- make 6ut and
communicate his decision and award to the postmaster- general; by
which award and decision the relators were allowed one hundred and
sixty-one thousand five hundred and sixty-three dollars and eightynine cents. That the postmaster, general, on being notified of. the
award, only so far obeyed and carried into execution the act of,congress, as to directy-and cause to be carried to he credit of, the relators, the sum: of one hundred and twenty-two thousand one hundred
and two dollars and forty-six cents. But that he has,-and still doqs
refuse and', neglect to credit the relators with.the residue of the sum
so awarded- by the sQlicitor, amounting to thirty-nine thousand four
hundred anda sixty-two dollars and forty-three cents. And the petition preyed the court, to award a mandamus directed. to the postmaster generalJ commanding him fullyto comply with, obey and execute the said act of congress, by crediting the relators with the full
and entire sum awarded in their favour by the solicitor of the treasury.
Such proceedings were, afterwards had in thp case, that a peremptory mandamus was ordered commanding the said Amos. Kendall,
postmaster general, forthwith to credit the relators with the full
a mount awarded and decided by the solicitor of the treasury to, be
due to the relators.
The questiops arising upon this case, inay oe considered under two
general inquiries:
1. Does the record present a proper case for a mandamus; and if
so, then,
2. Had the circuit court of this district jurisdiction of the case,
and authority to issue the. writ.
Under the first head of inquiry, it has been considered by the
counsel on the part of the-postmaster general, that this is a proceeeing against him to enforce the performance of an official duty. And
VOL. XII.-4 H

SUPREME COURT
[Kendall v. The, United States.]

the proceeding has been treated as an infringement upon the execufive department of the government; which has led to a very ex,tended range of argument on the independence. and duties of that
department; but which,' according to the view taken by the Court, of
the case, is entirely misapplied.. We do not think the proceedings in
this case, interferes, in, any respect whatever, with the rights or duties of the executive;, or that it involvesany conflict of powers between the executive and judicial departments of the government.
The mandamus does not seek to direct or control the postmaster
general in the discharge of any official duty, partaking in any respect of, an executive character; but to enforce the performance o a
mere ministerial act, which,-neither he nor the President had any authority to deny or control.
We shall not, therefore, enter into any particular 'examination of
the line to be drawn between the powers of the executive and judicial
departments of the government. The theory o the constitution undoubtedly is, that the great powers of the :government are divided
into separate departments; and so far as these powers are derived
'from the constitution, the departments may be regarded as independent Of each other. Btt beyond that, all are subject to regulationb by
law, touching the discharge of the duties required to be performed,
The executive power is vested in a President; and as far as hi.powers are derived from the constitution, he is beyond the reach of
any other department except in the mode prescribed by the constitution through the impeaching power. But it by no means follows,
that. every officer in every branch of that department is under the
exclusive direction of the President. Such a principle, we apprehend, is not, and certainly cannot be claimed by the President.
There are certain political duties imposed upon many officers in
the executive department, the discharge of which is under the direc,
tion of the President. But it would, be an alarming doctrine, that
congress cannot impose upon any executive officer any duty they
may think .proper, which is not, repugnant:to any rights secured and
protected by the constitution; and in such cases, the duity and responsibility grow out of and are subject to the control of the law,
and not to the direction of the President. And this is emphatically
the case, where the duty enjoined is of a mere ministerial character.
Let us proceed, then, to an examination of the .et required by
the mandamus to be performed by the postmaster general; and his
obligation to perform, or his righf to resist the performance, must

JANUARY 'rEIRMI, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

depend upon the act of congress. of the 2d of July, 1836. This is
a special act for the relief of the relators, Stockton & Stokes; and
was passed, as appeqrs on its face, to adjust arid settle certain claims
which they had for extra- services, as contractors for carrying the
mail. These claims were, of course, upon the United States, through
the postmaster general. The real parties to the dispute were, therefore, the rejators and the United States. The United States could
not, of course, be sued, or the claims in any way enforced against
the United States, without their consent obtained through an act of
congress: by which they consented to submit these claims to the
solicitor of the treasury to inquire into and determine the 'eqtity of
the claims, and to make such Aillowance therefor as upon a full. examination Of all the evidence, should seem right, according to the
principles of equity. And the act directs,.the postmaster general to
credit. the relators with whatever sum, if any, the solicitor shall
decide to be due to them, for or on account of any such service or
contract.
The solicitor did examine and decide that there, was due to th.
relators, one hundred and.sixty-one thousand five hundred and sixtythree dollars and ninety-three cents; of this sum, the postmaster
general credited them with one hundred and twenty-two. thousand
one hundred and one dollars and forty-six cents: leaving due tl'e
sum of' thirty-nine thousand four hundred and seventy-two, dollars
and forty-seven cents, which he refused to carry to their creditj
And the ciject of the mandamus was to compel him to give credit
for this balance.
Under this law the postmaster general is vested with no discretion or control'over the decisions, of the solicitor; nor is any 4ppeail
or review of that decision provided for by the act. The terms of
the submission was a matter resting entirely in the discretion of
congress; and if they thought proper to vest su'ch a power in any
one3 and especially as the arbitrator, was an officer of the government, it did not rest with the postmaster general to control congress, br the solicitor, in that affair. It is unnecessary to say how
far congress might have interfered, by legislation, after the report of
the solicitor. But if there was no fraud or misconduct in the arbi-tratQr, of which none is pretended, or suggested; it may well be
questioned whether the relators, had not acquired such a vested right,
as to be beyond the power of congress to deprive them Of it.
But so far from congress attemnpting to deprive the relators of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Kenaall v. The United States.]

benefit of the award, they may be considered as impliedly sanctioning and approving of the decisions of the solicitor. It is at least, so
to be'considered by one branch of the legislature. After tie postmaster general had refused to credit the relators with the full amount
of the award of the solicitor, they, under the advice of the President, presented a memorial to congress, setting out the report of the
solicitor, and the refusal of the postmaster general to give them
credit for the amount of the award, and praying congress to provide
such remedy for the dehial of their-rights) as in'their wisdom might
seem right and proper.
Upon this memorial, the judiciary committee of the senate -made
a report, iiiwhich they say, "that congress intended the award of
the'solicitor to be final, is apparent from the dire'tion' of the act that
the postmaster general be, and he is hereby directed to credit such
mail contractors with whatever stum the .solicitor shall decide to be
due to them.", If congress had intended to revise the decision of
the solicitor, the postmaster general would not have been directed to
make the payment, without the intervention or further .actio4 of
congresA" That unless it appeartd, which is-not suggested by any
one,. that some cause exists which would, vitiate or §et aside the
award between private parties before a "judicial tribunal, the committee cannot recommerrd the interference of congress to set aside
this award, and more especially as it has been imade by a high
officer, selected by the government; and the committee conclude
their report with a resolution, "That the postmaster general is fully
warranted in paying, and ought to pay to William B. Stokes and
others, the full amount of the award of the solicitor of the treasury:"
which r6solution was unanimously adopted by the senate. After
such-a decided expression of the opinion of one branch of congress,
it would not have been Dcessary to apply to the other. Even if
the relators were bound Lo make any application to congress for
relief, which they clearly were not, their right to the full amount of
the credit, according to the report of the solicitor, having been ascertained and fixed by law, the enforcement of that right falls properly
within judicial 'cQgnizance.
It was urged at the bar, that the postmaster general was alone
subject to the direction and control of thePresident, with respect
to the execution of the duty imposed upon him by this law, and this
right of the President is claimed, as growing out of the obligation
imposed upon him by the constitution, to take care that the laws be

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

613

[Kendall v. The United States.]

faithfully executed. This is a doctrine that cannot receive the
sanction of this court. If would be vesting in the President a dispensing power, which has no countenance for its support in any
part of the constitution; and is asserting a principle, which, if carried out in its results, to all cases falling within it, would be clothing
the President with a power entirely to control the legislation of.
congress, and paralyze te administration of justice.
To contend that the obligation imiposed on the President to see
the laws faitbfully executed, implies a power to forbid their execution, is a novel construction of the cofistitution, and entirely inadmissible. But although the argument necessarily leads to such a
result, we do not perceive from the case that any such power has
been claimed by the President. But, on the contrary, it is fairly to
be inferred that such power was disclaimed. He did not forbid or
advise the postmaster general to abstain from executing the Iaw, and
giving the credit thereby required; but submitted the matter', in a
message to congress. And the same judiciarycommittee of the
senate report thereupon, ibn
which they say, "The Pre:", nt, in his
message, e.:presses no opinion 'inrelation to the subject under consideration, nor does hl recommend the adoption of'any measure
whatever. He communicates the report of the postmaster general,
the review of that report by the solicitor of the treasury, and the
remarks of the postmaster general in answer thereto, together with
such vouchers as are referred to by them respectively. That the
committee have cofisidered the documents communicated, and cannot discover any cause for changing their opinion upon.any.of the
principles advanced in their former report upon this subject, nor the
correctness of their application to this case; and recommend the
adoption of the resolution before reported,'"
Thus, upon a second an( full consideration of the subject, after
hearing and examining the objections of the postmaster general, to
the award'of th6 solicitor, the committee report, that the postmaster
general ought to pay to the relators the amount of the award.
The right of the relators to t1he benefit of the award oughL' now to
be considered as irreversibly established; and'the question is whether
they have any) and what remedy?
The act required by the law to be done by the postmaster general
is simply to credit the relators with the full amount of the award of
Ihe solicitor. This is a prycise, definite act, purely ministerial; and
about which the postmaster general had no discretion whatever.

SUPREME COURT
fKendall v. The United States.]

The law upon its face shows the existence of accounts between. the
relators and the post office department. No money was required to
be paid; and none could have been drawn out of the treasury without further legislative provision, if this credit should overbalance the
debit standing against the relators. But this was a matter with which
the postmaster general had no concern. He was not called upon to
furnish the means of paying such balance, if any should be found.
He was simply required to give fhe credit. This was not an official
act in any other sense than being a tfansaction in the department
where the books and accounts were kept; and was an official act in
the same sense that an entry in the minutes of a court, pursuant to
an order of the court, is an official act. There is no room for the
exercise of any discretion, official or otherwise: all that is shut out
by the direct and positive command of the law, and the act required
to be done is, in every just sense, a mere ministerial act.
And in this view of the ease, the question arises, is the remedy by
mandamus the. fit and appropriate. remedy?
The common law, as it was in force, in Maryland when the ces,
sion was made, remained in force in this district. We must, therefor6, consider this writ as it was understood at the: common law with
respect to its object and purpose, and'varying only in the form required by the different character of our government. It is.a writ, in
England, issuing out of the king's bench, in the name of the king,
and is called a prerogative writ, but considered a writ of right; and.
is directed -to some person, corporation -.or inferior court, requiring
them to do some particular thing, therein specified, which appertains
to their office or duty, and which is supposed to be consonant t6 right
and justice, and where there is no other adequate specific rernedr.
Such 4 writ, and for such a purpose, would seemr to be peculiarly
appropriate to the present case. The right claimed is just and established by positive law; -and the duty required to be performed is
clear and specific, and there is no other adequate remedy.
The remedies suggested at the bar were, then, an application' to
congress; removal of the postmaster general from office; and an ac.tion against him for damages.
'The first has been tried and failed. The second might not afford
any certain relief, for his successors might withhold the credit in
the same manner; and, besides, such extraordinary measures are not
the remedies spoken of in the law which will supersede the right of
re~orting to a mandamus; and it is seldom that a private action at

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

law will afford an adequate remedy. If the denial of the right be
considered as a continuing injury, to be redressed by a series of successive actions, as long as the right is denied.; it would avail nothing,
and never furnish a.coffiplete remedy. Or if the whole amount of
the award claimed should be considered the measure of damages, it
might, and generall.ywou d be an inadequate remedy, where the.
damages were large. The langua e of this Court, in the case of Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 844, is, that the remedy by
action in. such cases would have nothing real in it. It would be a
remedy'in name only, and not in substance; especially where the
amount of damages is beyond the capacity of a party'to pay.
That the proc 'eding on a mandamus is a case within the meaning
of the act of congress, has been too often recQgnised in this Court to
require any particular notice. It is an action or suit brought in a
court of justice, asserting a right; and is prosecuted according to the
forms of judicial proceedings.
The next inquiry is, whether the court 'below had, jurisdiction of
the case, and power to issue the mandamus?
This objection rests upon the decision of this Court, in the cases.
of M'Intire v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 504; and M'Cluny v. Silliman, 6
Wheat. 369. It is admitted that those cases have decided that the
circuit courts df the United States, in the several states, have not authority to issue a mandamus against an officer of the United States.
And unless the circuit court in the District of Columbia has larger
powers in this respect, it had not authority to issue a mandamus in
the present case.
It becomes necessary, therefore, to examine with attention the
ground on which those cases rested. And it is to be obseryed, that
although the question came up under the names of different parties,
it related to the same claim in both: and, indeed, itwas before the
Court at another time, which is reported in 2, Wheat. 369.
The question, in the first case, originated in the circuit court of the
United States, in Ohio, and came to this Court on' a certificate of division of opinion. The second tini, it was an original application
to this Court, for the mandamus. The third time, the application
was. to the state court, and was brought here by writ of error, tunder
the twenty-fifth section of thp judiciary act.
By the first report of the case, in 7 Cranch, it, appears that the application to the circuit court was for a mandamus to the register of a
land office in Ohio, commanding him to issue a final certificate of

616

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall y. The United Statei,]

purchase for certain lands in that state, and ihe court, in giving its'
judgment, say: the power of the ciIcuit: courts to issue the writ of
mandamus, is confined exclusively t6 those .cases in wvhich it may be
necessary to the exercise of4 their jurisdiction. -. But, it is added, if
the eleventh section of the judiciary 'act had covered the whole
ground of the constitution, there would be much ground for, exercis,
ing this power in many- cases Wherein some ministerial act is necessaty to the completion of an individual right, arising under the laws
of the United States; and then the fourteenth section of the act
Would sanction the issuing of the writ for such a purpose. But that
although the judicial power under the constitution extends to all
cases arising undei the laws of the U-nited States, the legislature have
not thought prbper to delegate that power to the circuit courts, except in certain specified cases. The decision, then, turned' exclusively upon the point, that congress had not delegated to the circuit
courts all the judicial power that the constitution would authorike:
and admitting what certainly cannot be denied, that the constitution is broad enough to warrant the vestingof such power in the
circuit courts; and if in those courts, it may be vested in any other
inferior courts: for the judicial power, says the constitution, shall
.be vested in one Supreme Court, and such inferior courts as the congress may from time to time ordain and establish.
It is not .designated by the Court, in tl~. case of M'Intire v. Wood,
in what respect there is a want df delegation to the circuit courts of
the. power necessary to take cognizance of, such a case, and issue the
writ. 'It is said, however, that the power is confined to certain specified cases, among which is not to be found that of issuing a mandamus.in such a case as was then before the Court. It is unnecessary
to: enter into a particular examination of the limitati-'n upon the
power embraced in this eleventh section of the judieiary act. There
is, manifestly, some limitation.. The circuit courts:.have certainly
not jurisdiction of all suits or cases of a civil nature at common law,
and in equity. They are not courts of general jurisdictior, in all
such cases; and an averment is necessary, bringing the case within
one of the specified classes . But the obvious inference from the
case of M'Intire v. Wood, is, that under the constitution, the power
to issue a mandamus to an executive officer of the United States,
may be vested in the iuferior courts of the United States; and' that
it is the appropriate writ, and proper to be employed, agroeably to
the principles and usages of law, to compel the performanc of a mi-

JANUARY TERM, 1836.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

nisterial act, necessary to the completion of an individual right arising under the laws of the United States. And the case now before
the Court, is precisely one of that description. And if the circuit
court of this district has the power to issue it, all objection arising dither from the character of the party, as an officer in the executive department of the government, or from the nature of the act
commanded to'be done, must be abandoned.
An application for a mandamus, founded on the same claii, was
made to this Court under the name of M'Cluny v. Silliman, as reported in 2 Wheat. 369; and the application was refused on the authority of-Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137, that this Court had
no original jurisdiction in such cases.
The case came up again under the name of M'Cluny V. Silliman,
6 Wheat. 598, on a writ of error to a state court, under the 25th section of the judiciary act; and the only question directly before the
Court, was, whether a state court had authority to issue a mandamus
to an officer of the United States, and this power was denied. Mr.
Justice Johnson, who gave the opinion, and who had given the
opinion of the Court in M'Intire v. Wood, alluded to that case, and
gave some account of the application in that case, and the grounds
upon which the Court decided it; and observes, that the mandamus
asked for in that case, was to perfect the same claim, and' in point
of'fact, was 'between the same parties; and in answer to what had
been urged at the bar, with respect to the character of the parties,
says, that case aid not turn upon that point; but that both the argument of counsel, and the decision of the Court, show that the power
to 'ssue the mandamus in that case, was contended for as incident to
tho judicial power of the United States; and that the reply to the
argument was, that although it might be admitted that this controlling power over its ministerial officers would follow from vesting in
its courts the whole judicial power of the United States; the argument fails here, since the legislature has only made a partial delegation of its judicial pgwers to the circuit courts. That all cases arising under the laws of the United States,-are not, per se, among the
cases comprised within the jurisdiction of the circuit courts, undethe provisions of the eleventh section.
It is, he says, not easy to cQnceive on what legal ground a state
.tribunal can, in any instance, exercise the power of issuing a mandamus to a register., of a land office. The United Stateg have not
thought proper to delegate that power to their own courts. But
VOL. XII.-4 I

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

when in the case of Marbury v. Madison, and M'Intire v. Wood,
this Court decided against the exercise of that power, the idea never
presented itself to any one, that it was not within the scope of the
,judicial power of the 'United States, although not vested by law in
the courts of the general government. And no one will contend,
that it was among the reserved powers of the states, because not communicated by law to the courts of the United States.
The result of these cases, then, clearly is, that the authority to issue the writ of mandamus to an officer of the United States, commanding him to perform a specific act required by a law of the
United States, is within the scope of the judicial powers of the United
States, under the constitution. But that the whole of that power has
not been communicated by law to the circuit courts; or in other
Nwords, that it was then a dormant power not yet called into action,
and vested in those courts; and that there is nothing gro ving out of
the official character of the party that will exempt him from this
writ, if the act t6 be performed is purely ministerial.
It must be admitted, under the doctrine of this Court in the cases
referred, to, that unless the circuit court of this district is vested with
broader powers and jurisdiction in this respect, than is vested in the.
circuit courts of the United States in the several states, then the mandamus in the present case was issued without authority.
But in considering this question, it must be borne in mind that

the only ground upon which the court placed its decision, was that
the constitutional judicial powers on this subject had not been imparted to those courts.
In the first place, the case of Wheelwright et al. v. The Columbia
Insurance Co. 7 Wheat. 534, furnishes a very strong, if not conclusive inference that this Court did not consider the circuit court of
this district as standing on the same footing with the circuit courts
in the states; and impliedly admitting that it had power to issue a
mandamus in a case analogous to the present. A mandamus. in that
case had been issued by the circuit court of this. district, to compel
the admission of the defendants in error-to the offices of directors
in the Columbian Insurance Company, and the case was brought before this Court by writ of error; and the Court decided that a writ
of error would lie, and -directed affidavits to be produced as to the
value of the matter in controversy. But it not appearing that it
amounted to one thousand dollars, the sum reqicired to give this
Court appellate jurisdiction from the final judgments or decrees of

JANUARY TERM, 183g.

619

[Kendall v. The United States.]

the circuit court of this district, the writ of error was afterwards
quashed.
It would, seem to be a reasonable, if not a necessary conclusion,
that the want of a sufficient value of the matter in controversy, was
the sole ground upon which the writ of error was quashed, or dismissed. If it'had been on the ground that the court below had not
jurisdiction in the case, it can hardly be believed that the Court
would have directed affidavits to be produped of the value of the
matter in controversy. This would have been an act perfectly nugatory, and entirely unavailable, if the matter in controversy had
been shown to be above the value of ine thousand dollars. If the
want of jurisdiction in the circuit court had been the ground on
which the writ of error was quashed, the same course would have
been pursued as was done in the case of Custis v. The Georgetown
& Alexandria Turnpike Co. 6 Cranch, 233; where the writ of error
was quashed on the ground that the court below had not cognizance
of the matter.
But let us examine the act f -congress of the 27th of February,
1801, concerning the District of Columbia, and by which the circuit
court is organized, and its powers and jurisdiction pointed out. And
it is pro'per, preliminarily, to remark, that under the constitution of
the United States, and the cessions made by the states of Virginia and
Maryland, the exercise of exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever, is given to congress. And it is a sound principle, that in every
well organized government the judicial power should be coextensive with the legislative, so far at least as private rights are to be enforced by judicial proceedings. There is in this district, no division
of powers between the general and state governments. Congress
has the entire control over the district for every purpose of government; and it is reasonable to suppose, that in organizing a judicial
department here, all judicial power necessary for the purposes of government would be vested -in the courts of justice. The circuit
court here is the highest court of original jurisdiction; and if the
power to issue a mandamus in a case like the present exists in any
court, it is vested in that court.
Keeping this consideration in view, let us look at the act of congress.
The first sectiou declares, that the laws of the state of Maryland,
as they now exist, shall be, ind continue in force in that part of the
district which was ceded by that state to the United States; which is

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

the partlying on this side the Potomac, where the court was sitting
when the mandamus was issued. It.was admitted on the argument,
that at the date of this act, the common law of England was in force
in Maryland, and of cou~se it remained and continued in force in
'this part'of the district: and that the power to issue a mandamus in
a proper case is a branch of the common law, cannot be doubted, and
has been fully recognised as in practical operation in that state, in
the case of Runkle v. Winemiller and others, 4 Harris & M'Henry,
448. That case came before the court on a motion to show cause
why a writ'of mandamus should not issue, commanding the defendants to restore the Rev. William Runkel into the place and functions
of minister of a certain congregation. The court entertained the
motion, and afterwards issued a peremptory mandamus. And in the
opinion delivered by the court on the motion, reference is made to
the English doctrine on the subject of mandamus; and the court
say, that it is a prerogative writ, and grantable when the public justice of the state is concerned, and commands the execution of an act,
where otherwise justice would be obstructed. 3Bac. Ab. 527. It is
denominated a prerogative writ, because the king being the fountain
*of justice it is interposed by his authority tf'ansferred to the court
of king's bench, t4 prevent disorder from a failure of justice where
the law has established no specific remedy, and where in justice and
good government there ought to be one. 3 Burr, 1267. It is a writ
of right, and lies, where there is a right to execute an office, perform
a service, or exercise a franchise; and a person is kept out of possession, and dispossessed of such right, and has no other specific legal
remedy. 3 Burr, 1266.
These, and other cases where a mandamus has been considered in
England as a fit and appropriate remedy, are referred to by the general court; and it is then added, that the position that this court is
invested with similar powers, is generally admitted, and the decisions have invariably conformed to it; from whence, say the court,
the inference is plainly deducible, that this court may, and of right
ought, for the sake of.justice, to interpose in a summary way, to supply a remedy; where, for the want of a specific one, there would
otherwise be a failure of justice.
The theory of the British government, and of the common law
is, that the writ of mandamus is a prerogative writ, and is sometimes called one of the flowers of the crown, and is therefore confided only to the king's bench; where the king, at one period of

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

the jddicial history of that country, is'said to have sat in person,
and is presumed still to sit. And the power to issue this writ is
given to the king's bench only, as having the general supervising
power over all inferior jurisdictions and officers, and is coextensive
with judicial sovereignty. And the same theory prevails in our state
governments, where the common law is adopted, and governs in the
administration of justice; and the power of issuing this writ is generally confided to the highest court of original jurisdiction. But,
it cannot be denied but this common law principle may be modified
by the legislature, in any manner that may be deemed proper and
expedient. No doubt the British parliament might authorize the
court of common pleas to issue this writ; or that the legislature of
the states, where this doctrine prevails, might give the power to
issue the writ to any judicial tribunal in the state, according to its
pleasurei and in some of the states, this power is vested in other
judicial tribunals than the highest court of original jurisdiction.
This is done in the state of Maryland, subsequent however to the
27th of February, 1801. There can be no doubt, but that in the
state of Maryland a writ of mandamus might be issued to an executive officer, commanding him to perform a ministerial act required
of him by law; and if it would lie in that state, there can be no
good reason why it should not lie in this district, in analogous cases.
But the writ of mandamus, as it is used in the courts of the United
States, other than the circuit court of this district, annot, in any just
sense, be said to be a prerogative writ, according to the principles
of the common law.
The common law has not been adopted by the United States, as a
system in the states generally, as has been done with respect to this
district. To consider the writ of mandamus, in use here, as it is in
England, the issuing of it should be confined to this Court, as it is
there to the king's bench. But, under the constitution, the power
to issue this as an original writ, in the general sense of the common
law, cannot be given to this Court, according to the decision in Marbury v. Madison.
Under the judiciary act, the power to issue this writ, and, the purposes for which it may be issued in the courts of the United States,
other than in this distridt, is given by the fourteenth section of the
act, under the general delegation of power "to issue all other writs
not specially provided for by statute,.which. may be necessary for
tIhe exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the

16.2

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall V.The United State.]

principles and usages of law." And it is under tmis power, that this
Court issues the writ to the circuit courts, to compel them to, pro,eeed, to a final judgment or decree in a, cause, in order that we may
exercise the jurisdiction ,of review given by the law: and the same
power,is, exercised by the circuit, courts, over the district courts)
Where a writ of error or appeal lies to the circuit court. . But. this
power is not exercised, as, in England,'by the king's bench, as having a general supervising power over inferior courts,, but only for
the purpose of bringing the case-to a final judgment or decree, so
that it may be reviewed. The- mandamus does- not direct the inferior cotirt how to proceed, but only that it must proceed, according
to its own judgment, to a:.final determination; otherwise it cannot be
reviewed. in the appellate court. So that it is in a special, nodified
manner, in which the writ of mandamus is to be used in this Court;
and in the circuit courts in the states; and does not stand 'on the same
footing, as in this district, under the general adoption of the laws of
Maryland, which included the common law, as altered or modified
on the 27th of February, 1801.
Thus far the power of the circuit court to issue the writ of mandamus, has been considered-as derived lander the first section of.the
act of 27th of Februaryo1801. But the third and fifth sections are
to be taken into consideration, in deciding this question. The third
section, so far as it relates to the present inquiry, declares: "That
there shall be a court in'this district, which shall be called the, circuit court of the District of Columbia; and' the said court, and the
judges thereof,'shall have all the powers by law vested in the circuit
courts and the jddges of the circuit courts of the United States."
And the fifth section declares: "That the said court'shall have cognizance of all cases, in law and equity, between parties, both or
either of which shall be resident or be found within the district."
Some criticisms have been made at the bar, betweenthe use of the
terms power and cognizance as employed in those sections. It is
riot perceived how such distinction, if any exists, car affect the construction of this law. That there is a distinction, in some respects,
cannot be. doubted; and; generally speaking, the word power is used
in reference to the means employed in carrying jurisdiction into
execution. But, it may well be doubted, whether any marked distinction is observed and kept up in our laws, so as in any measure to affect the construction of those laws. Power must include
jurisdiction, which is generally' used in reference to the exercise of,

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

that power in courts of justice. But power, as used ia the constitu,
tion, would seem to embrace both.
This, all legislative power shall be vested in congress. The executive power shall be vested in a President. The judicial power
shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as
congress shall, from time to time, ordain and establish: and this judicial .power shall extend to all cases, in law and equity, arising
under this constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties
made) or which shall be 'made, under their authority, &c. This
power must certainly embrace jurisdiction, so far as that term is applicable to the exercise of legislative or executive power. And as
relates to judicial power, the term jurisdiction is not used, until the
distribution of those powers among the several courts, is pointed out
and defined.
There is no such distinction in the two sections of the law in the
use of the terms power and jurisdiction,'as to make it necessary to
consider them separately. If there is any distinction, the two sections, when taken together, embrace them both. The third gives the
power, and the fifth gives the jurisdiction on the cases in which that
power is to be exereised. By the fifth section, the court has cognizance of all actions or suits of a civil nature, at common law or in
equity, in which the United States shall be plaintiffs or complainants;
and also of all cases in law and equity between parties, both or either
qf which shall be resident or be found within the district. This
latter limitation can only affect the exercise of the jurisdiction, and
cannot limit the subject matter thereof. No court can, in the ordinary administration of Justice, in common law proceedings, exercise
jurisdiction over a party unless he shall voluntarily appear, or is
found within the jurisdiction of the court, so as to be served with
process. Such process cannot reach the party beyond the territorial
jurisdiction of the court. And besides, this is a personal privilege
which may be waived by appearance; anil if advantage is to be taken
of it, it must be by plea or some other mode at an early stage in the
cause. No such objection appears to have been made to the jurisdiction of- the court in the present case. There, was no want of
jurisdiction, fhen, as to the person; and as to the subject matter of
jurisdiction, it extends, according to the language of the act of congress, to all cases' in law and equity. This, of course, means cases
of judicial cognizance. That proceedings on an application to a court
of justice for a-mandamus, are judicial proceedings, cannot admit of

SUPREME COURT
[Kendall v. The United States.]

a doubt; and that this is a case in law is equally clear. It isthe prosecution of a suit to enforce a right secured by a special act of congress, requiring of the postmaster general the performance of a
precise, definite, and specific act, plainly enjoined by the law. It
cannot be denied but that congress had the power to command that
act to be done; and the power to enforce the performance of the act
must rest somewhere, or it will present a case which has often been
said to involve a 'monstrous absurdity in a well organized goyernment, that there should be no remedy, although a'clear and undeniable right should be shown to exist. And if the remedy cannot
be applied by the circuit court of this district, it exists nowhere. But,
by the express terms of this act, the jurisdiction of this circuit court
extends to all cases in law, &c. No more general language could
have been used. An attempt at specification would have weakened
the force and extent of the general words-all cases. Here, thenj is
the delegation, to this circuit court, of the whole judicial power in
this district, and in the very language of the constitution; which declares that the judicial power shall extend to all cases in law and
equity arising under the laws of the United States, &c.; and supplies
what was said by this Court in the cases of MIntire v. Wood, and
in M'Cluny v. Silliman, to be wanting, viz: That the whole judicial
power had not been delegated to the circuit courts in the states: and
which is expressed in the strong language of the Court, that the
idea never presented itself to any one that it was not within the
scope of the judicial powers of the United States, although not vested
by law in the courts of the general government.
And the power in the court below to exercise this jurisdiction, we
think, results irresistibly from the third section of the act of the 27th
of February, 1801, which declares that the said court, and the judges
thereof, shall have all the powers by law vested in the circuit courts
and the judges of the circuit courts of the United States. The
question here is, what circuit courts are, referred to. By the act of
the 13th of February, 1801, the circuit courts established under the
judiciary act of 1789 were abolished; and no other circuit courts
were in existence except those established by the act of 13th February, 1801. It was admitted by the attorney general, on the argument,
that if the language of the law had been, all the powers now vested
in the circuit courts, &c., reference would have been made to the
act of the 13th February, 1801, and the courts thereby-established.
We think that would not have varied the constr uction of, the act.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

The reterence is to the powers by law vested in the circuit courts.
The question necessarily arises, what law? The question admits of
no other answer, than that it must be some existing law, by which
powersg re vested, and not a law which had been repealed. And
there was no other law in force, vesting powers in circuit courts, except the law of the 13th of February, 1801. And the repeal of this
law, fifteen months afterwards, and after the court in this district
bad been organized and gone into operation, under -the act of 7th
of February, 1,801, could not, in any manner, affect that law, any
further than was provided by the repeating act. To-what law was
the cirduit court of this district to look for the powers vested in the
circuit courts 'of the United 'States, by which the court was to be
governed, during the time the act of- the 13th of February was in
force? Certainly to none other than that act. And whether the
time was longer or shorter before that law was repealed, could make
.no difference.
It was 'not an uncommon course of legislation in the states, at an
early day, to adopt, by reference, British statutes: and'this has been
the course of legislation by congress in many instances where state
practice and state process has been adopted. And such adoption has.
always been considered as referring to the law existing at,the time,
of adoption; and no subsequent legislation 'has ever been supposed to
affect it. And such must necessarily be the effect and' operation of
such adoption. No other rule would furnish any certainty as to
what was the law; and would be adopting prospectively, all changes
that might be made in the law. And this has been the'light in, which
this Court has' viewed such legislation. In the case.of Cathcart v.
Robinson, 5 Peters, 280, the Court, in speaking of the adoption of
certain English' statutes say: by adoptihig them, they become our
own as entirely as if they had been enacted by the legislature. We
are then to construe this third section of the. act of 27th of February,
1801, as if the eleventh section of the act of 13th of February,. 1801,
had been incorporated at full length; and by this section it is declare', that the circuit courts shall have cognizance of all cases in
law or equity, arising under-the constitution and laws of the United
States, and treaties made, or which shall be made under their authority: which are the very words of the constitution, and which is, of
course, a delegation of the whole judicial power, in cases arising
under the constitution and laws, &c.; which meets and supplies the
precise want of delegation of power which prevented the exercise
VOL. XII.-4 K

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The, United States.]

of jurisdiction in the cases of M'Intire v. Wood, and M'Cluny v.
,Silliman; and must, on the principl'es which governed the dqcision
of the Court in those cases, be sufficient to vest the power in the
qircuit court of this district.
The judgment of the, court below is accordingly affirmed with
costs, and the cause remanded for further procecdings.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY:
As this case has attracted some share of the public attention, and
a diversity of opinion exists on the bench; it is proper that I should
state the grounds upon which I dissent from the judgmeht pronounced by the Court. There is no controversy about the facts;
and as they have been already sufficiently stated, I need not repeat
them.
Upon some of the points much argued at the bar, there is no differeice of opinion in the Court. Indeed, I can hardly understand
how so many grave questions of constitutional power'have been introduced into the discussion of a case like this, and so earnestly
debated on both sides. The office of, postmaster general is not created by the constitution; nor are its powers or duties marked out by
that instrument. The office was created by act of congress; and
wherever congress creates such an office as that of postmaster general, by law, it may unquestionably, by law, limit its powers, and
regulate its proceedings; and may subject-it to any supervision or
control, executive or judicial, which the wisdom of the legislature
may deem right. There can, therefore, be no question about the
constitutional powers of the executive or j udiciary, in this case.
The controversy 4epends simply upon the construction of an act of
congress. The circuit court for the District ,of Columbia was prganized by the -act of February 27, 1801, which defines its powers'and
jurisdiction; And if that law, by its true construction, confers upon
the court the power it has in this ,instance exercised, then the judgment must be affirmed.
There is another point on which there is no difference of opinion
in the Court. We all agree that by the act of July 2, 1836, it was
the duty of the postmaster general to credit Stockton and Stokes
with the amount awarded by the solicitor of the treasury; that no
discretionary power in relation to the award, was given to the postmaster, general; and that the duty enjoined upon him was merely
ministerial.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kbndall v. The United States.l

These principles being agreed on, it follows, that this was a proiper
case for 'a mandamus; provided congress have conferred on.the circuit court for the District of Columbia, the prerogative, jurisdiction
and powers exercised by the courtof king's bench, in England;
for Stockton and Stokes are entitled to have the credit entered in,
the manner directed by the act of congress, and they have no other
specific means- provided by law, for compelling the performance of
this duty. In such a case, the court of king's bench, in England,
would undoubtedly issue the writ of mandamus to such an officer,
commanding him to enter the credit. Have congress conferred
similar jurisdiction and powers upon the circuit court for this district? This is the only question in the case. The majority of my
brethren think that this jurisdiction and power has been conferred;
and they have given their reasons for their opinion. I,' with two of
my brethren, think otherwise; and with the utmost respect, for the
opinion ot the majority of this Court, I proceed to show the'grounds
on which I dissent from their judgmetit.
.It has been decided in this Court, that -the circuit courtsof the
United States, out of this district, have not the power to issue the
writ of mandamus to an officer of the general government, commanding'him to do a ministerial act. Ther question has been twice
before the' Supreme Court; and upon both occasions was fully argued
and deliberately considered. The first case was that of M'Intyre v.
Wood, 7 Cra. h, 504, dedided in 1813. It was again brought up
in 1821, in tile case of M'Cluny V. Silliman, 6 Wheat. 598, when
the former decision was re-examined and affirmed. Ahd it is wcrthy
of remark, that although the decision first mentioned was-made twenty-five years ago, yet congress have not altered the law, or enlarged
the jurisdiction.of the circuit courts in this respect-; thereby showing, that it has not been deemed advisable b'y the legislature, to confer upon them thejurisliction over the officers of the general
government, which is claimed by the circuit, court for this district.
As no reason of policy or public convenience can be assigned for
giving to the circuit court here a jurisdiction on this subject, which
has been denied to the other circuit courts; those who maintain that
it has been given ought to show us words which distinctly give it,
or from which it can plainly be inferred. When-congress ifitended
to confer this jurisdiction on the Supreme Court, by the act of 1789,
ch, 20, they used language which nobody could misunderstand. In
that law they declared that the Supreme Court shovld have power

,SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

to issue "writs of mandamus, in cases warranted by the principles
and usages of law to any courts appointed, or persons holding office,
uhder the authority of the United States." Here are plain words.
But no such words of grant are to be tound in the act of February
27, 1801, Which established the circuit court of the District of Columbia, and defined its powers and jurisdiction. Indeed, those who
insist that the power is given, seem to have much difficulty in fixing
upon the particular clauses of the law which confers it. Sometimes
it is said to bederived from one section of the act; and then from
another. At one time it is said to be found in the first section; at
another in the third section, and then in the fifth section; and some.
times it is said to be eqwaily.discoverable in all of them. The power
is certainly no where given in direct and positive terms: and the
difficulty in pointing out the parti.cular clause from whi.ch the power
is plainly to be inferred, is strong proof- that congress never intended to confer it. For if the legislature wished to vest this power
in the circuit court for this district, while they denied it to the circuit courts sitting in the states, we can, hardly believe that dark and
ambiguous language would have been selected to convey their meaning; words would have been found in the law equally plain with
those above quoted, which conferred the power on the Supreme
Court.
But, let us examine the sections which are supposed to give this
power to this circuit court.
1st. It is said to be given by the first section. This section-declares, that the laws of Maryland, as they then existed$ should be in
force in that part of the district ceded by Maryland; and the laws
of Virginia in that part of the district Ceded by Virginia. By this
section, the common law in civil and criminAl cases, as-it existed in
Maryland at the date of this. act of congress, (February 27, 1801,)
became the law of'the districteon the Maryland side of the Potomac;
and it is argued, that this circuit court being a court of general jurisdiction in eases at common law, and the highest court of original
jurisdiction in the district, the-right to issue the writ of mandamus
is incident to; its common law powers, as a!part of the laws of Maryland; and distinguishes it in this respect from the circuit courts of
the states.
The argument is founded in a mistake as to the nature and character of the writ of mandamus as known to the English law; and as

SANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

used and practised in Maryland at the date of the act of congress in
question.
The 'Power to issue the writ of mandamus to an officer of the
government, commanding him to do a ministerial act, does not, by
the' common law of England, or by the laws of Maryland, as they
existed at the time of the cession, belong to any court whose jurisdiction was limited to a particular section of country, and was not
coextensive with the sovereignty which established the court. It
may, without doubt, 'be conferred on such courts by statute, as was
done in Maryland, in 1806, after the cession of the district. But;
by the prineiples of the common 11w and the laws of Maryland, as
they existed at the time of the cession; no court had a right to issue
the prerQgative writ of mandamus, unless it was a court in which the
judicial sovereignty was supposed to reside; and which exercised a
general superintendence over the inferior tribunals and persons
throughout the nation, or state.
In England this writ can be issued by the king's. bench only. It
,cannot be issued by the court of common pleas, or any other court
known to the English law except the court of king's bench. And
the peculiar character and constitution of that court, from which it
derives this high power, are go well-known and familiar to'every
lawyer, that it is scarcely necessary to cite authorities or the subject.
Its peculiar powers are clearly stated in 3 Black Corn. 42, in the
following words: " The jurisdiction of this court is very high and
transcendant. It keeps all inferior jurisdictions within the bounds of
their authority, ,nd may either remove their proceedings to be determined here, or prohibit their progress below. It superintends all
civil corporations in the kingdom. It commands magistrates and
others to do What their duty requires in every case, where there is
no other specific remedy. It protects the liberty of the subject hy
spegdy and summary interposition," &c. It is f-om this " high and
transcendan "jurisdiction ihat the court of king's bench derives the
power to issue the writ of mandamus, as appears from the same
volume of Blackstone's Commentaries, p. 110. "The writ of mandamus," says the learned commentator, "is in general, a command
issuing in the king's name from the court'of king's bench, and directed to any person, corporation or inferior court of judicature,
within- the king's dominionsi requiring them todo'some particllar
thing therein specified, which. appertains to their office and duty,
and which th court of king's bench as previously determined, or

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

at least supposes to be consonant to right and justice.. It is a high
.prerogative writ of a most extensively remedial nature."
And Mr.
Justice Butler, in his introduction to the law relative to trials at nisi
prius, also places the right to issue this writ upon the peculiar and
high powers of the court of king's bench. in page 195, he says:
"The writ of mandamus is a prerogative writ issuing out of the court,
of king's bench, (as that court has a general superintendency over
all inferior jurisdictions and persons,) and is the proper remedy to
enforce obedience to acts of parliament, and to the king's chartei,
and in such a case is demandable of right." Indeed, in all of the
authorities it is uniformly called a "prerogative writ," in order to
distinguish it from the ordinary process which belongs to courts of
justice; and it was not originally considered as a judicial proceeding,
but was exercised as a prerogative power. In the case of Audley v.
Jay, Popham, 176, Doddridge, Justice, said: "This court hath power
not only in judicial things, but also. in some things which are extrajudicial. The maior and comminalty of Coventry displaced one 'of
the aldermen and he was restored; and this thing is peculiar to this
court, and is one of' the flowers of it."
These peculiar powers were possessed by the court of king's
bench; because, the king originally sat there in person, and aided
in the adininistration of justice. According to the theory of the
English constitution, the king is the fountain of justice, and where
the laws did not afford a remedy and enable the individual to obtain,
his right, by the regular forms of judicial proceedings, the prerogative powers-of the sovereign were brought in aid of the ordinary
judicial powersof the court, and the mandamus-was issued in his
name to enforce the execution of the law. And although the king
has long since ceased to sit there in person, y'ct the sovelfeign is still
there in construction of law so far as tor enable the court to exercise
its prerogative powers in his name; and 'hence its powers to issue
the Writ of mandamus, the nature of which Justice Doddridge so forcibly describes, by calling it extra-judicial, and one of the flowers of
the king's bench. It is, therefore, evident, that by the principles of
the common law, this power would not be incident to any court
which did not possess the general superintending power of the court
of king's bench, in which the sovereignty might by Construction of
law be supposed to sit, and to exert there its prerogative powers in
aid of the court, in order that a right might not be without a remedy.
The English common law was adopted in the colony of Maryland:

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

and the courts of the province formed on the same principles. The
proprietary government established what was, called the provincial
court; in which it appears that, in imitation of what had been done
in England, the lord proprietary, in an early period of the colony,
sat in person.* This court possessed the same powers in the province that belonged to the court of 4ing's bench in England. Its
jurisdiction was co-extensive with the dominions of the lord proprietary; and it exercised a general superintendence over all inferior
tribunals and persons in the province; and consequently possessed
the exclusive power of issuing the writ of mandamus.
When the revolution of 1776 took place, the same system of ju.
risprudence was adopted; aid the fifty-sixth article of the constitution of Maryland provided, " that three persons of integrity and
sound judgment in the law, be appointed judges of the court now
called the provincial. court, and that the same court'be hereafter
called and known by the name of the general court." No further
description of the jurisdiction and powers of the general court is
given. It, therefore, in the new order of,things, was clothed with
the same powers and jurisdiction, that had belonged to the provincial
court before the revolution. In other words, the general courtwas,
in the state of Maryland precisely what the court of king's bench
was in England. Afterwards, and before the cession of the District
of Columbia to the United States, county courts were established iri
Maryland corresponding in character with what are called circuit
courts in most of th6 states. These courts possessed general jurisdiction, civil "and criminal, in the respective counties, subject, however, to the superintending power of the general court; which exercised over them the- same sort of jurisdiction, which the court of
king's bench exercises over inferior tribunals. This was the system
of jurisprudence in Maryland, at the time when the act of congress
adopted the laws'of the state for the district; and, the power which
the Maryland courts then .possessed, by virtue of those laws, in relation to the writ of mandamus, are set forth ifi
the case of Runkle v.
Winemiller, 4 Harris & M'Henry, 449. Chief Justice Chase, in delivering the opinion of the court in that case, after describing the
character and principles of the writ of ma'ndamus, says:-" The court
I derive my knowledge of the fact that the LordProprietary sat in person in the
provincial bourt, from a manuscript work of much value, by J. V. L. M'Mahon,
esquire; whose History of Maryland, from its first Colonization to the RcvolutiQn, is
well known to the public.

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The Urnited States.]

of king's henchhaving a superintending power over inferior courts of
jurisdiction, may, and of right ought to interfere to supply a remedy,
when the ordinary'forms of proc'eding are inadequate to the attainment of justice in matters of public concern. 3 Bac, Abr. 529, 530.
The position that this Court is invested with similar powers, is generally admitted, and the decisions have invariably conformed to it:
from whence the inference is plainly deducible, that this court may,
and of right ought for the sake of justice, to interpose in a summary
way to supply a remedy, where, for the want of a specific one, there
would otherwise be a failure of justice." This case was decided in
1799, in the -general court; and it shows, most evidently, that th6
power of issuing the writ of mandamus, was confined to that court,
and was derived from its king's bench powers of superintending inferior courts and jurisdictions in the execution of the law; and that
this power was not possessed by any other court known to the laws
of Maryland., And so well and clearlywas this understood to be
the law of the state, that when the general court was afterwards
abolished by an alteration in the constitution, and county court&established as the highest courts of original jurisdiction, no one supposed that the prerogative powers of the general court were incidefital to their general jurisdiction over cases at' common law; and a
statute was passed in 1806, to confer this jurisdiction upon them.
This act declares, "that the county courts shall have, use, and exercise, in their respective counties, all and singular the powers, autho-.
rities, and'jurisdictions which the general court, at the time of the
abolition thereof, might or could have exercised in cases' of writs of'
mandamus." The 'adoption of the laws of Maryland, therefore,
does not give to the circuit court for the District of Columbia, the
power to issue the writ of mandamus, as an incident to its general
jurisdiction over cases at common law. It has none of what Blackstone calls the "high and transcendent" jurisdiction of the court of
king's bench in England, and of the general court in Maryland. It
is not'superior to all the other courts of the United States of origi,nal jurisdiction throughout the Union; itis not authorized to super'itend them, and "keep them within the bounds of their authority;"
it does not "superintend all civil incorporations" established by the
United States; nor "command magistrates," and other officers of the
United States in every quarter of'the country, "to do what their duty
requires in every case where there is no other specific remedy." Its
jurisdiction is confined to the narrow limits of the district; and the

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United $ta tes.]

jurisdiction which it derives from the adoption of the laws of Maryland, must -be measured by that of the county courts of the state
which the court for this district in every respect resembles. Thes6
courts had no power to issue the writ of mandamus at the time when
the laws of ,Maryland were adopted by congress; and when the
county courts afterwards became, -by the abolition of the -general
court, the highest courts of original jurisdiction, still, by the laws of
that state, they could not issue, this writ, until the power to do o was
conferred on them by statute. As this act of assembly passed five
years after congress assumed jurisdiction over the district, it forms
no part of the laws adopted by the act of congress. I cannot, therefore, see any ground whatever for deriving the authority to issue
this writ of mandamus from the first section of the act of congress,
adopting the laws of Maryland as they then existed.
2 But it is insisted, that if the power to issue the writs of mandamus is not incidentally granted to this circuit v'ourt by the first
section of the act of February 27th, 183.1, which adopts the laws of
Maryland; yet it is directly and positively given by the fifth section, which declares that the court shall have cognizance of " all
cases in law and equity." It is said that a caseyroper for a niandamus is-a case at law; and. that the words abovemetitioned, therefore,
authorize the. circuit court to take cognizance of it.
The cases of Wood v. M'lIntire, and M'Cluny v. Silliman, hereinbefore mentioned, appear to me to be decisive against this proposition. These cases decided that the circuit courts out of this district',
have not the power now in question. It is true, that the eleventh
sectioi of the act of 1789, ch. 20, which prescribes the jurisdiction
of the circuit courts out of this district, does not use the very same
words that are used in the fifth section of the act now under consideration. The eleventh section of the act of 1789, declares that the
circuit courts shall have cognizance of "all suits of a civil nature at
common law, or in equity," &c. But these words, "all suits of a
civil nature at,cqmmon law," mean the same thing as the words "all
cases at law," which are used,in the act of February 27th, 1801;
and Mr. Justice Story, in his Commentaries on the Constitution, Abr.
608, 609, in commenting on the meaning of the words, "cases at
law and equity," as used in the constitution, says:-"A case, then,
in the sense Qf this clause of the 'constitution, arises where some subject touching the constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States,
is submitted to the courts by a party who asserts his rights in the
VOL. XII.-4 L

SUPR9M9 COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

form prescribed by law. In other words, a case, is a suit in law or
equity, instituted accordingto the'regular course of judicial proceedings; and wheh it involves any question arising under the constitutign, laws, or treaties of the United States, it is within the judicial
power confided. to the Union." Now, if a case at law means the
same thing as a suit at law, and 'the latter words do not give jurisdiction to the circuit courts out of this district to issue the writ of
mpandamus to an officer of the general government, how can words,
which are admitted to mean the same thing, give the power to the
circuit court within this district? How can the cognizance of "cases
at law," in the act of. congress before us, be construed to confer this
jurisdiction; when it has been settled by two decisions of this Cotrt,
that words of the same meaning do not give it to the other circuit
courts? We cannot give this construction to the act of February
27th, 1801, without giving a judgment inconsistent with the deci-,
sions of this Court in the two cases abovementioned; and I cannot
agree either to overrule these cases, or to give a judgment inconsistent with them.
But-it is-argued that if' the 1st section of the.act of congress does
not g1ive the circuit court this jurisdiction, and if the 5th section
does not give it, yet it may be derived from these two sections taken
together. The argument, I understand, is this: The general couart of
'Maryland possessed the power to issue the writ of mandamus in a
case of this descriptionR; and inag'aucoh as that court possessed this
power, the cases which authorigod',the ,p'arties to demand it were
"cases at law,'" by the laws of that' s§tate,; and consequently, the jurisdiction is conferred on the'c rcuit court in similar cases, by the adoption of the laws of Maryland in the first section, and the words in
the fifth,-wh.ich givpe the; circuit court, cognizance of "cases at law."
The fallacy of this argument consists in assuming that the general
court of Matyland had jurisdiction to issue the writ of mandamus,
because it was "a case at law" whenever the party took the proper
steps to show himself entitled to.it. The reverse of this proposition
is the true one. A !'case at law, as I have already shown, means
the same thing as a "suit;" and the general court had authority to
issue the writ of mandamus, not because the proceeding was a, case
or suit at law, but because, no case or suit at law would afford a remedv' to' th Party, This is the basis upon which rests the power of the
court of king's bench'in' England, and upon. which rested the power
of the general court in Maryland before that court was abolished.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v' The United States.],

635

These courts, by virtue;,of their prerogative powers, interposed "to
supply a remedy in a summary way,) .where no suit or action
known to the lawwould afford one to the party for the wrong ha'had
sustained. It is not a suit in form or substance, and never has been
so considered in England or-in Maryland. For if it had been considered in Maryland'As a suit at law, Chief Justice Chase, in the case
of Runk.l v.'Winemiller, hereinbefore referred to, would hardly
have put his decision on the prerogative powers of the general court
in the manner hereinbefof'e stated. Since the statute of the 9th of
Anne, authorizing pleadings in proceedings by mandamus, it has
been held that such a proceeding is in the nature of an action; 'and
that a writ of error will lie upon the judgmentof theI court awarding a peremptory mandamus. But it never has been said in any
book of authority, that this prerogative process is "an action, or "a
suit," or "a case" at law; and never suggested, that any court. not
clothed with the, prerogative- powers of the king's bepch, could issue
the process, according to the principles. of the common law, unless
the-power to do so had been conferred by statute.
4. But it is said that if the jurisdiction exercised in this case by
the circuit court for the District of Columbia, cannot be maintained
upon any. of the grounds 'hereinbefore examined, it may yet be supported on the 3d section, of the act of February 27, 1801. . This
seetion,-among other things, provides that this circuit "court and the
judges thereof shall have all the powers by law vested in the circuit
courts, and the judges of the circuit courts of the United States."
And iV is insisted that as the act of February 13, 1801, was at that
time in fo)rcei the.powers of this circuit court are to be measured by
that act, although it has since been repealed; that the c4rcuit courts
established by the act of February 13th, 1801, did possess the power
in question, and consequently that the circuit court for this district
now possesses it, and may lawfully exerci3e it.
There are two answers to this argument, either of which are, in my
judgment, sufficient.'
In the first place, there are no words in the act of February 27,
1801, 'which refer particularly to the powers given to the circuit
courts by the act of February 13, 1801, as the rule by which the
powers of the circuit court for this district are to be 'measured. The
obvious meaning of the words above quoted is, that the powers of
this circuit court shall be regulated by the existing powers of the circuit courts as generally established, so that the powers of this circuit

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.)

court would be enlarged or diminished, from time to time, as congress might enlarge or diminish the powers of the circuit courts in
its general system. And when the law of February 13, 1801, was
afterwards repealed, and the act bf 1789 re-enacted, the powers of
this circuit court were regulated by the powers conferred on the circuit courts by the last mentioned law. It was the intention of congress to establish uniformity in this respect; and they have used language which, in my opinion, makes that intention evident. The circuit court for this district cannot, therefore, refer for its "powers" to
the act of February 13, 1801, since that act has been repealed.
In the second place, if the powers of the circuit court for the District of Columbia are still to be regulated by the law which was repealed as long ago as 1802; yet it will make no difference in the resilt of the argument. Much has been said about the meaning of the
words "powers" and "cognizance" as used in these acts of congi'ess.
These words are no doubt gel rally used in reference to cou-ts of
justice, as meaning the same thing; and I have frequently so used
them in expressing roy' oninion in this case, But it is manifest that
they are not so used in the acts of congress establishing the judicial
- system of the United States; and that the word powers is employed
to denote the process, the means, the modes of proceeding, which the
courts are authorized to use in exerciping their jurisdiction in the
,cases specially enumerated in the law as committed to their "cognizance.'
Thus in the act of 1789, cbi. 20, the 11th section specifically enumerates the cases, or subjectmatter of which the circuit courts
shall have "cognizance;" and subsequent sections under the name of
"4powers" describe the process, the meang which the courts may employ in exercising their jurisdiction in the cases specified.' For example section 14 gives them the "power" to issue the writs " necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions;" and names
particularly some of the writs which they shall have the "power" to
issue; section 15, gives them the "power" to compel parties to produce their books, &c..; section 17, gives them the "power" to grant
new trials, to',administer oaths, to punish contempts, and to establish
rules of court. The same distinction between "powers" and jurisdiction or "cognizance" is preserved in the act of February 13,
1801'.- The 10th section of this act gives the circuit courts.therby
established, all the "powers" before vested in* the circuit courts of
the United States, unless where otherwise provided bythat law; and
.the next -following section, (the" 1th) enumerates" specifically the

JANUARY TERM,. 1.838.
[Kendall v, The United Stateo.]

cases or controversies of which they shall have "cognizance."

And
so also in the act of February 27, 1801, establishing the circuit court
for this district, 'the same distinction is continued; and the 3d section
(the one now under consideration) gives the court "all the powers by
law vested in the circuit, courts;" while the c5th section enumerates
particularly the matters and controversies of Which 'itshall have
"cognizance;" that is ta say, over which it Shail exercise ju'risdiction, by 'he means and the "powers" given to it for that purpose, by
this same act of congress. With ,these several , laws before us, in
each of which the same-terms have evidently been always usedin the
same sense, it appears to me impossible to doubt the meaning w'hich
congress 'intended to affix to them. If they had used the word
"powers" and the word 11cogniz:ance," as -meaning the same thing;
would they, in the 10th section of the act of February 13, 1801,
have given jurisdiction in general terms under the name of "powers"
to the courts thereby established: and then have immediately followed it up. with a specification of the cases .of which it should take
"cognizance:" and if such an unusual mode of legislation ,had been
adopted in this law from inadvertence or mistake, would it have been
adhered to and repeated in the act of February'27, 1801? It is
hardly respectful to the legislative body, for this Court to say so. It
is.'clear that the word 11powers" must have been constantly used in
these laws in the sense I have already stated; and. if the 3d section
of the last mentioned act is to be construed as referring particularly
to the act of February.13, 1801, it will not affect the present controversy. For we find the "powers" of those circuit courts given by
the 10th section; and they are there given by referring as generally
to the "powers" conferred on the circuit courts by preceding laws;
so that after all we are still carried back to the act of 1789, in order
to learn the powers of the circuit courts established by the act of February 13, 1801; and consequently we are also to learn from that law,
the "powers" of the circuit court for this district. And upon turning to the act of 1789, we find there the power given to the Supreme
Court to issue the writ of ihandamus "to persons holding office under
the authority of the United States;" but we find no such power given
to the circuit courts. On the contrary, it has been decided as hereinbefore 'stated, that under the act of 1789, they are not authorized
to issue the process ir question. The 3d section of the act of February 27, 1801, will not, therefore, sustain the jurisdiction exerviqed
in this case by the circuit court.

.SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

But the principal effort on.,the 'part of the relators, in this branch
of the argument, is, to giveto this third section such a construction
as will confer on- this circuit court a jurisdiction coextensive with
that.given to the'circuit courts, by the eleventh section of the act of
tbruary 13, 18-0L., In other words, they propose to expound the
act of February 27th, as ifthis section of the 'act
of February 13th
was inserted in it, The eleventh section of the act 'referred to,
enumerates and spedifie particularly the cases of which'the circuit
qpurts, thereby established had " c o gnizance;" and the relators insist
:that*juiisdiction in all the eases mentioned in -that. section,, is also
.conferredon the 'circuit court, for this.,district, by. reason of the provision in the third- sectiQn of the act of February 27th, above mentioned.' And they- contend that the. aforesaid elventh',section gave
to the circuit courts established by that law, jurisdiction to issue 'the
:writ in question ; and that the circuit court for this district, therefore, possesses the same jurisdiction, even although it is not given
by the fifth section of'the act establishing it. The objed of this
argument' .is, to'extend the jurisdiction of this circuit court beyond
the limits, marked out for it, by the fifth section of the act which
created it; provided the' eleventh section, of the act of February
13th shall be construed to' have given a broader jurisdictio n .
Now,"it appears to me that, whenwe find the eleventh section of
the act of February i3th enumerating and specifying the cases of
which the circuit ,courts out of this 'district should have "cognizance';" and the fifth section of the act of February 27th, enumerating and specifying the cases of which the circuit court within'this
'district should hve "Cognizance;" if there is found "to be any substantial difference in the jurisdictions thus specified and defined in'
theseltwo laws; the just and, datural inference is, that the legislature
intended that the jurisdiction of' the courts should be different ; and.
that they did not iotend -to give to the circuit court for this district
the same jurisdiction that- had been given to' the others. This would
bethe legitimate inference in comparing any laws establishing dif-:
ferent courts; and the conclusion is irresistible in this case, where
the two laws were passed within a few days of each other, and both
must.have been, before the legislature at the same time. It-would
be contrary to the soundest rules for the construction, of statutes, in
such a case, to enlarge the jurisdiction of this circuit court beyond
the limits of the fifth'section, by resorting to such general words as
those containqd in the third;. and to words, too, which much more

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

appropriately apply to its process, to its modes of proceeding, and
to other " powers"l of the court; and which certainly have no necessary connection with the cases of which the court is authorized to
take "cognizance. '
I do not, however, mean to say, that the eleventh section of the
act of February 13th, conferred on the circuit courts which it established, the power to issue the writ of mandamus, in a case like the
present one. I think it did not; and that a careful analysis of its
provisions would show that. it did not: especially when taken in
connection with the provisions of the act of 1789, which had expressly conferred that power, on the Supreme Court. But it is unnecessary to pursue the argument on this point, because no just rule
of construction can authorize us to engraft the provisions of this
section upon the act of February 27th, so as to give to the circuit
court for the District of Columbia. a wider jurisdiction than that
contemplated by the fifth section of the last mentioned act.
Upon a view of the whole case, therefore, I cannot find the power
which the circuit court has exercised either in the first section, or
the third section, or the fifth section; and it is difficult to believe
that congress meant to have given this high prerogative power in
so many places, and yet, in every one of them, have left it, at best,
so ambiguous and doubtful. And if we now sanction its exercise,
we shall give to the court, by remote inferences, and implications, a
delicate and important power which I feel persuaded congress never
intended to entrust to its 'hands.
Nor do I see any reason of policy that should induce this Court
to infer such an intention on the part of the legislature, where the
words of the law evidertly do not require it. It must be admitted
that congress have denied this power to the circuit courts out of
this district. Why should it be denied to them, and yet be entrusted to the court within this district? There are officers of the general government in all of the states, who are required by the laws
of the United States to. do acts which Pre merely ministerial, and
in which the private rights of individuals are concerned. There
are collectors and other officers of the revenue, who are required to
do certain ministerial acts, in giving clearances to vessels, or in admitting them to entry or to registry. There are also registers and
receivers of the land offices, who are, in like manner, required by
law to do mere ministerial acts, in which the private rights of' individuals are involved. Is there any reason of policy that should

640

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States,]

lead us to suppose that congress would denny the writ of mandamus
to those who' have such rights in the states, and give it to those who
have rights in -this district? There would be no. equal justice in
such legislation.; and no good reason of policy or convenience-can
be assigned for such a distinction,
The case of the Columbian Insurance Company v. Wheelwright,
7 Wheat. 534, has been relied on as sanctioning the exercise of the
jurisdiction in question; and it is said, that this Court, in determining that a, writ of error would lie from the, decision of the circuit
court of this district, awarding a peremptory mandamus, have impliedly decided that the circuit court had jurisdiction to issue the
process. I confess I cannot see the force of this argument. The
8th section of the act of February 27, 1801, provides , " that any
final judgment, order, or decree, in said circuit court, wherein the
matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed the'value of one
hundred dollars, may be re-examined, and reversed or affirmed, in
the Supreme Court of the United States, by writ of error or appeal,
which shall be prosecuted in the same. manner, under the same regulations, and the same proceedings shall be had therein as is or shall
be provided in the case of writs of error, or judgments, or appeals,
upon orders or decrees rendered in the circuit court of the United
States." Now the order for a peremptory mandamus in the case
cited, as well as in the one now before the Court, was certainly "a
final judgment" of the circuit court. It decided that they had jurisdicton to issue the mandamus, and that the case before, them was a
proper one for the exercise of this jurisdiction. -Being the" final
judgment" of the 'circuit court, it was liable to be re-examined in this
Courtby writ of error; and to be reversed, if upon such re-examination, it was found that the circuit court had committed an error;
either in assuming a jurisdiction which did not belong to it, or. by
mistaking the rights of the parties, if it had-jurisdiction to issue the
mandamus. In the case of Custis v. The Georgetown and Alexandria Turnpike Company, 6 Cranch, 233, the Supreme Court sustained the writ of error, and reversed the judgment of the circuit
court. of this district, quashing an inquisition returned to the clerk;
and this was done upon the ground that the circuit court 'had 'exercised a jurisdiction which did not belong to it. There are a multitude of cases where this Court have entertained a writ of error for
the purpose of reversing the judgment of the court below, upon the
ground that the circuit court had not jurisdiction of the case, for the

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United, States.j

want of the proper averments inl relation to the citizenship of the
parties.
It is certainly error in a. circuit court to assume a jurisdiction
which has not been conferred oin it by law. And, it. would seem to
be a stranj6 limitation on the appellate, powers of this Court, if it
were rostrained from correcting the judgment of a cir-it court When
it committed this error. If such were the case, thefi an6error, committed by.a circuit court in relation to the legal rights'of the parties
before it, could not.be'examined into and corrected in this Court; if it
happencd to be associated with the additional error of having assumed
a jurisdiction which the )aw had not given. SuchiIT.think, cannot
be the legitimate construction of the section above quoted. And if
the circuit court jmistakes its jurisdiction, either in respect to the
persons; pr the subject matter,, or the process, or the mode of proceeding; the mistake may be corrected here by a writ of error from
its final judgment, or'by appeal in cases of equity or admiralty jurisdiction. And whether the final judgment is pronounced in asummary or other proceeding, if it be in a case in which the circuit court
had not jurisdiction, its judgrnent may be re-examined here, and the
error corrected by thig- Court. The decision of this Court, therefore, in the case of The Columbian Insurance Company v., Wheelwright, that / writ of error would* lie from the judgment of the
circuit court of the District of Columbia, awarding a peremptory
mandamus, is by no means a decision that the court below had jurisdiction to issue it.
In fine, every view which I havd been able to take of this subject,
leads 'ne to conclude that the circuit court had not the power to
issue a writ of mandamus in the case before us. And, although I
'am ready to acknowledge the respect and cofifidence which is justly
due to the decision of the majority of this Court; and am fully sensible of the learning and force with which their judgment is sustained
by the learned judge who -delivered the opinion of the Court, I must
yet, for the reasons above stated, dissent from it,I think that the
circuit court had not ,by law, the right to issue this mandamus; and
that the judgment they have given ought to be reversed,
Mr. Justice BARBOUR:.
In this case, I have no doubt but that congress have the constituional power to give to the federal judiciary, including the circuit
ourt of this district, authority to issue the writ of mandamus to the
VOL. XII.-4 M

642

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. the United States.]

postmaster general, to compel him to perform any ministerial duty
devolved on him' by law.
I have no doubt, that the act which in this, case was required to
be done by the postmaster general, is such an one as might properly
be enforced by the, writ of mandamus; if the circuit court of this district had authority by law to issue it.
But the question is, whether that court is invested with this-authority by law? I am of opinion tbat it is not; and I will state the
reasons which have brought me to that conclusiom
It was decided by 'this Court, in the case of M'Intire v. Wood, 7
tcranch, 504,"upon a certificate of division from the circuit court of
Ohio; that that court did not possess the power to issue a writ of
mandamus, to the register of a land office, commanding him to issue
a final certificate of purchase to the plaintiff, for certain lands in the
state of Ohio.
The, principle of this case was approved, and the same point affirmed, in the case of M'Cluny v. Silliman, 6 Wheat. 598.
In the views, then, which I am about to present, I shall set out
with the adjudged and admitted proposition, that no other circuit
courts of the United States have power. to issue the writ of mandamus. And then the whole questionis resolved into the single inquiry, whether the.circuit court of this district has power to do that
which all admit the other circuit courts of tl~e United States have
not the' power to do? It has been earnestly maintained at the bar,
that it has; because, it is said, that it has by law a larger scope-of
jurisdiction.
To bring -this proposition to the test of a close scrutiny, let us
compare the 'precise terms in which the: jurisdiction of the circuit
courts of the United States is granted by the judiciary .act of 1789,,
with those which are used in the grant of jurisdiction to the 'circuit
court of this district, by -the act of the 27th February, 1801.
The Oleventh section of the judiciary act of 1789, so far as it respects this question, is in these words: "That the circuit courts
shall have original cognizance, concurrent'with the courts of the
several states, of all suits of a 'ctli nature, -at common law or in
equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds five hundred dollars; and
the United States are plaintiffs or petitioners, or an alien is a party,
or the suit is between a citizen of the state where te skit is brought,
and a citizen of another state."
The fifth sectioh of.the act of 4he 27th!February, 1801, giving.

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

jurisdiction to the circuit court of this district, so far as resptets this
question, is in these words: "That said court shall have cogaizance
of all cases in law and equity, between parties, both or either of
which shall be resident, or shall be found within the said district;
and also of all actions or suits of a civil nature, at common law or
in equity, in which the United States shall be plaintiffs or complainants."
Having placed these two sections in juxtaposition, for the purpose
of comparing them together, I will'now proceed to examine the particulars, in which it has been attempted to be maintained, that the
grant of jurisdiction to the circuit court of this district, is more

extensive than that to the other circuit courts of the United States,,
so as to enable it to reach this case, which it is admitted the 6thers
cannot' do.
In the first place, we have been told, that in the grant of jurisdiction to the other circuit courts, by the eleventh section of the' .judi,ciary act of 1789, th.e:words "concurrent with the courts 6f the
several states," are found; whigh Words ai'e not contained in the
fifth section of the act of the 27th February, 1801, giving jurisdic:tion to the circuit court of this district. It is argued, that these
words are restrictive in their operation, and limit the jurisdiction of
those courts to. those cases only, of which the state courts could take
cognizance, at the time the judiciary act of 1789 was passed. That
as the ordinary jurisdiction of the state courts did not then extend
to cases arising under the constitution and laws of the United States,
therefore the jurisdiction of the circuit courts, given b~y the eleventh
ectiqn of that act, did not extend, to those cases, because it was de-:
clured to he concurrent, and consequently only coextensive.
This position is, in my estimation, wholly indefensible. I think,
it a proposition capable of the clearest proof, that the insertion of
the words "1concurrent with the courts of the several states,". was
not intended to produce, and does not produce, any limitation or restriction whatsoever, upon the jurisdiction of the circuit courls of
the United States.
No such consequence could follow, for this obvious, reason, that
the state courts could themselves rightfully, take cognizance of any
question whatever which arose in a case before them, whether growing out of the constitution , laws, and treaties of the United States;
or, as is said in the eighty-second nuniber of the Federalisf, arising
under-the laws of Japan. The principle is, as laid down in the num-

SUPREME COURT
[,Kendall v.The United States.]

ber of the Federalist, just "referred to-" That the judiciary .power
of every government looks beyond its own local or municipal laws,
and in civil caseslays hold of all subjects of litigation, between parties within its jurisdi'tion, though the ca}ses of, dispute are relative
to the laws of the most distant part of the globe." In conformity
with this principle, it is said by this Court, 1 Wheaton, 340,'speaking of the state" courts: i From the verynature of their'judicial
duties, they would be called upon to pronounce the law applicable to
the case in judgment. They were, not to decide merely according
to *the lawS or coiftitution- of the state, but according to the cnstitution, laws, 'and. treaties of the United States, the: supreme law of
the land." And' in the same case, after putting cases illustrative of
the proposition, and a' course of reas6ning upon'them, they conclude
by saying, "it must therefore be conceded, thatthe constitution not
only contelplated, but meant too provide for cases Within the scope
of*'the jiudicial.power of the United States, which might yet depend
before state tribunals. It was foreseen that in the exercise of their
Ordinary jurisdiction, state courts would incidentally take cognizance
of cases arising under the constitution, the.laws, and 'treaties ot' the
'United States "
Prom these quotations, it is apparetit, that no restriction can have.
been imposed upon the jurisdiction of the circuit courts" of the
United States by w.ords which make it concurrent with that of the,
courts of the states ; When it is admitted, that there is no question
which can arise before'them, in' a civil case, which they are not
'competent and 'indeed bound to decideI according to the raws applicable to the question; whether they: be the constitution 'laws and
treaties of the United States, the laws of Japan, or, any other foreign
country on the face of the earth.
The same number of 'the Federalist already referred to, furnishes
the obvious reason why these words were inserted. It is there said,,
that amongst other questions which had ariseh in relation to the
constitution, one was whether the jurisdiction of the .federal courts
was to be exclusive, or whether the-state 4ourtsVould possess a
concprrent jurisdiction?. The author reasons upon the subject;
quotes the terms in which the judicial power of th6 United States
is vested by the constitutipn; states that these ter'ns might be constitued as importing' one or the other of tWo'dAferent significations;'
and then concludes thus: ',"The first excludes, the last admits, the
concurrent jPurisdiction of the',. state tribunals, and as the first would

JANUARY. TERM; 1888.

645

[Kendall v. The United State%.]

amount to an anenation of state power, by implication, the last appears to me the most defensible construction.' :The reason, then,
W¢hy these words were inserted in -the elevorith' 'seci0n of the judip
ciary act, was 'to remove thd, doubt here expressed, to obviate all
diffi ilty, upon the quest-ionwhether thd grant,.of. judicial power to
-the federal courts, without saying more,.might.not possibly. be eonstriied to exclude the jurisdiction of the state.cour s Its sqle-ohject
Was, as.'is sometimes said in the law-boks, to excludie
or~lusion.
C6ngress cannot,-indee , confer jurisdition upon any coufts bdt
such-as exist under the eonstifution and'laws of the' United States, as
is said in Houston v; Moore"5'Wheat. 27; -although it is said in the
same ease, the .state courts may exercise jurisdiction Jon -caseauthorized, by 'the laws of the.state, and' not prohibited by the'exicluive
jurisdiction 'of..the federaI courts.. Thi, however, is not because
they have had, or can have any pottion, of 'the judicial, ower if 'the
United States, as. suc, imparted tQ them; but, because, by rea~qa. of
their oi'iginil, rightful j4dicial-power, as state courts, they a-veom-petent to- decide 611.questions growing out of all lAws which arise
'before them .and accordingly, t framers
ie
of the. judiciary act, proceeding, on the. idea. tbat.questions -arising 'under the constitution,
laws'andtreaties of theUnitad.States, might o'nd would be presented and decided in., the, state courts, inserted, the 25th section,- by
which those ases, under cetfaiti dircumstances,, might be brought
,by writ 4f error; or appeal to this Court,
The difference in the phraseology of the' two sections has been
,adverted to. It' has. been said that-the wor& in the llth'section of
the judiciary a'ctof-'t789; are all,sifits of a eivil nature, at common
law, or in: equity; 'and those in 'the 5th section of the act-of, 1801,
giving, jurisdictiorn 'to the: circuit court of this distriet, areA' all nses
in'law.'and equity." Now, iti iimpossible't0 maintain that ,there
isany differencein legal effeat between these two modes of expresion. '
isacase
shat
in law or equity? .1' giVe -Tne answer in the
'ianguage of the late Chief' 3ustice of this.Court: ' To come within
this description, a .question must assume a legal form, for forensic
itugation,.,and judicial decision." .And what is a suit? I give the
'answer also. in' the lahnguage of the, late Chief Justice, who, in .d
Peters, 444,,says,: i delivering the opinion of the Court, ' 1if a right
is htigated between parties in a court of' justice, the proceeding by
which the dceision df the-court is sought, isa suit." It is then unquestioxiably .true, that the.court 'which. has jurisdiction over all

646'

SJPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States]

suits in law and equity, has as much judicial power 'by those terms,
as a court: has by the, terms, all cases in law' aid equity. The only
diffe6ence between the. two sections under cnsideration, in relation
to the question. before us, consists in ,the -two limitations contained
in the I1th section of the judiciary act; 'the one as to~the character
of the partips, the other a's to the value of t46 matter in dispute.
When, therefore, we suppose a case 'in which the plaintiff 'and
defendant are citizens of different states, (the one being a citizen of
the state.where the suit is brought,.)'and in..which 'the.value of the
matter in disput6 is five hundred dollars; with these parties, and a
Subject niatter of this value, allthe. cireuit courts of the United States
can ,take cognizaiice of it;, whether it' shall have arisen under 'the'
constitution;. laws or treaties of the United States, th'e. laws. of., a
state, ,or of any, foreign country, having application to the 'ease.
Whenever, therefore, it is said that those courts cannot take cogni-'
zance of caseE4n law and equity arising under'the constitution, laws
or treaties of the United States, it: is only meant to sayfThat they
cannot do it on 'account of 'the character of the questions to be decided, unless the parties, and the value of the subject matter come
within the 'descriptioi.of the-11th sectioi,; but when -they do,
there cannot be a poqsible doubt. And this will explain the case of
a patentee of an invention, referfed'to in the argument.; to whom a
right to institute a: suit in the circuit courts, has been given by ape-,
cial legislation. The only. effect'o that is, that such a patentee can
sue in the circuit courts, on- account of the 'character of 'the case,
without, regard to the character of the party, a. to' citizenship, or
the value of the matter in dispute; whereas, without such- special
legislation, he could have sued in the circuit courts, if his character
as a party, and the value of the matter in.dispute, had brought his
ease within the description of the 11th section of the judiciary act.
In the case of M'Cluny v, Silliman, however, this difficulty did 'not
epdst; for it is distinctly stated in that case, page 601,'that the parties
to that controversywere competent to sue under the 11 th section,
being citizens of different states; and yet this Court refers to and
adopts the response, which they had given to the, question stated in
M'Intire v. Wood,; which answer was 'in these words: "that the
circuit court did not possess the power to issue the mandamus
moved for."
It has' been attempted to be maintained in the argument, that the
circuit court of this district has a more extensive jurisdiction than
.

JAlUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United !States.]

the other circuit courts of the United States, by the following course
of reasoning: We nave been referred to the third isection of the
act of the 27th of February, 1801, establishing the dircuit court 6f
tlis district, which section is in these word'A: " The said court, and
the judges thereof, shall have all the powers .by law vested .in the
circuit Pourts, and the judges of the circuit courts of the United
States."
It is then assumed in the argument, that' the powers of thku
court, and its jurisdiction, are the same'thing; it is also assumed, that.
the third section has reference not to the powers of the circuit courts
of thd United States, and their judges, as they shall be from time to
time modified byiegislation, but to those Which were established by
the act of the 13th February, 1801, entitled "an act to provide for the
.-more convenient organization of the courts of the United States;"
which, though since repealed,,was passed fourteen days before the
act establishing the circuit court of. this district, and was in,force at
the date of the passage of this latter act.
We are then referred to the eleventh section of theact of the 13th
of February,.-1801, by which jurisdiction is given to the circuit
courts thereby established, over "all cases in,
law or equity, arising
under the constitution and. laws of the. United States, and treaties
made,or which shall be made under their authority."
Even conceding, for the present, al these 'assumptions in, favour
of the argument, it wholly fails to sustain the position contended
;for. To prove this,-1 need only refer 'to my previous leasoning in
this case; by whicbtl have shown, that under the eleventh section of
the judiciary act of 1789, the circuit courts had as ample jurisdiction
in.
all cases arising under the cQnstitution, laws and treaties of the'
United States, as is given them by the section now under consideration, subject only to the two, limitations as to parties, and value of
the .matter in dispute. So that beyond ll question, the. only difference is, that by the section now under consideration, the circuit
courts could take cognizance on account of the character of the case,
no matter Who were the parties, or what the value .in dispute; whereas) by the eleventh section of the judiciary act, they could take cognizance of the same questions, provided the parties were, for example,
citizens of different states, and the matter in dispute was of the value
of five hundred dollars. And yet, as I have already stated, m
M'Cluny v. Silliman, in which the parties corresporAded to the requirements of the law, and there Was no question raised as to the
Value of the matter. in dispute, this Court reaffirmed the proposition,

SUPREME COURT
[Kendall v. The United States.,

that the circuit courts of the United States did not possess the power
to issue the writ of mandamus. But let us briefly examine, one of.the
assumptions whilph I have, argumenti gratia, eonceded, Ifor thepurpose
of giving the fullest force to ihe argument founded on it; I mean that
which takes for granted, that the powers and the jurisdiction of the
cour are the same thing. I say nothing of the other assumption,
simply because it is wholly immaterial to. the view which I tal~e.
Are the powers and jurisdiction of the court equivalent? Whatever
may be the meaning of these terms in the abstract, they are clearly
used as,of essentially diffeient import in.the .acts of congress; 'and
this difference will, in my opinion, go. far to show the error in the
Conclusions drawn from the, assumption, that they are of equivalent
'import. There 'are several reasons which conclusively prove 'that
they were used in different senses by cofigress. In the.first place,,
as well'inthe act of 1789, establishing the circuit courts of the United
States, and the act of the 13th February, 1,01, reorganizing them,
as in the act of the 27th February,-1801, establishing the circuit
court of this district; the jurisdiction' of the court is defined in one
section, and its powers are declared inanother. Now, it is an obvious remark, that if powers and'jurisdiction were considered as
equivalent, here was mere useless tautology. For, upon this hypothesis, the grant of powers carried with, itjurisdiction; and, e converso, the grant of jurisdiction carried with it powers.
In the next place, we not only find that in some sections the terA
cognizance, or jurisdiction, (which are synonymous,) is used, whilst
in others, the term power is made use of; but in .the very same section, that is, the thirteeteth, in relation to the Supreme Court, both
terms are used thus -" The Supreme Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of all controversies of a civil nature, where a state is a
patty, except," &c'.;
and in the same section, "and shall have power,
to issue writs of probibitioi to the district courts." &c.
Again: The act of 1789, after defining the jurisdiction of the dif'ferent courts in different sections, viz., that of the district courts in
theninth, that of the circuit court in the eleventh, arid that of the
Supreme Court in the thirteenth, together with the power to issue
writs of prohibition and mandamus; proceeds in subsequent sections
to give certain powers to all the courts of the United States. Thus,
in the fourteenth, to issue writs of scire facias, habeas corpus, &c.;
in the fifteenth, to require the production of books and writings; in
the 17th, to grant new trials, to adm;nister oaths, punish contempts,

ANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

&c. it is thus apparent, that congress used the terms jurisdiction,
and powers, as being of different import. The sections giving jurisdiction, describe, the subject matter, and the parties of which the
courts nxay take cognizance; the sections giving powers, import adthority to issue certain writs, and do certain acts incidentally becoming necessary in, and being auxiliary to, the exercise of their jurisdiction. In regard to all the powers in the fifteenth and seventeenth
sections, this is apparent beyond all doubt, as every power given in
both those sections, necessarily presupposes that it is to be exercised
in a suit actually before them, except the last in the eventeenth section, and that is clearly an incidental one, it being a power "to make
and establish all necessary rules for the orderly conducting business
in the said courts," &c. And this brings me directly to the fourteenth section, under which it was contended, in the case of M'Cluny
v. Silliman, that the circuit courts Could issue writs of mandamus.
That section is in these words:-" That all the beforementioned
courts of the United States shall have power to issue writs of scire
facias, habeas corpus, and all other writs not specially provided for
by statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the principles and usages of law."
As the writ of mandamus is not specially provided for by law, except in the case of the Supreme Court; it is obvious, that to enable
any circuit 'court to issue it, it must. be shown to be necessary to the
exercise of its jurisdiction. It is argued here, as it was in the case
of M'Cluny v. Silliman, that a mandamus is proper, where there is
no other specific legal remedy; and that therefore, in such a case, it
is necessary to the exercise of the jurisdiction of the court, and so
within the words of the statute. But what was the answer of the
Court in that case? Amongst other things, they said:-" It cannot
be denied, that the exercise of this power is necessary to the exercise of jurisdiction in the court below. But why is it necessary?
Not because that court possesses'jurisdiction, but because it does not
possess it.'
Again they said:-"The fourteenth section of the act
under consideration, could only have been intended to vest the
power now contended for, in cases where the jurisdiction already
exists; and not where it is to be courted, or acquired by means of the
writ proposed to be sued out. Such was the case brought up from
Louisiana, in which the judge refused to proceed to judgment, by
whiah act the plaintiff must have lost his remedy below, and this
Cjurt have been deprived of' its appellate control over the question
VOL. XIL.-4 N

650
of right."

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. Th United States.]
was c6nsidered conclusive in the ease
answer
As this

referred to, it would be sufficient for me to stop herer, with giving
the same answer. But let us pursue the subject a little further.
The proposition which I maintain is, that this section did not contemplate any original writ, but only those which are incidental and
auxiliary. That it did not contemplate any writ as original process,
is' apparent from this consideration; that by an act passed at the same
session, and within five days thereafter, entitled an act to regulate
processes in the courts of the United States, the forms of writs and
executions, except their style and modes of process then used in the
supreme courts of the states; were adopted.
But it seems to me, that there is an argument to be derived from
the nature and character of the writ of mandamus, and the legislation of congress in relation to it, which is, of itself, decisive against
the power of: the circuit court to issue it. It is declared by all the
English authorities, from which in general our. legal principl, s are
drawn, to be a high 'prerogative writ. Accordingly, it issues in
England only from the king's bench, in which the king did formerly actually sit in person; and in which, in contemplation of law, by
his judges, he is still supposed to sit. It never issues, but to command the performance of some public duty. Upon this principle,
5 Barn. &.Ald. 899, the court of king's bench refused a mandamus
to a private trading corporation, to permit a transfer of stock to be
made in their books; declaring that it was confined to cases of a public nature, and that although the' company was incorporated by a
royal charter, it was a mere private partnership. Upon the same
principle, I believe that it may be affirmed, without exception, unless
where a statutory provision has been made, that .in every state of the
Union, where the common law prevails, this writ issues only from
the court possessing the highest original common law jurisdiction.
The congress of the United States adopted the same principle, and
by the thirteenth section of the judiciary act of 1789, gave to thb
Supreme Court of the United States, power in express terms, to issue
writs of mandamus, '. in cases warrantod by the principles and usages
of' law, to any courts appointed, or persons holding office under the
authority of the United States," thus covering the whole ground of
this high prerogative writ. If then, there ever were a case in which
the maxim that expressio unius, est exclusio alterius, applied, this
seems to me to be emphatically that case. It is of the nature of the
writ, to be issued by the highest court of the government; the Su-

JANUARY TERM,. 183.8.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

preme Court is the highest; and accordihgly, to that CoArt, the power
to issue it is given. , It is given iii express words to that Court, and
is not given in terms to any other court., It is given I- that Court
in express terms, in the thirteenth section; and although not given
in terms in the fourteenth section,'immediately following, the power
to issue it is attempted to be derived, by implication; from that sectwin. And' last, but not least, where it is given, it is subjec't to no
limitation, but that it is to issue "in cages warranted by the' principles and usages 'of law," and may be issued to any courts appointed
by, or persons holding office under the authority of the United
State§ :" Whereas, in the fourteenth section, all the- courts of the
United States are empowered to issue certain writs, naming them,
and then others, not naming them; and not mentioning the writ of
mandamus, which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions. Nor is the force of this- argument at all 'weakened by the circumstance that this Court, in the case of, Marbury v.
Madison, 1 Cranch, 137, declared that part of the judiciary act, which'
emp9wered the Supreme Court to issue the writ of mandamus to be
unconstitutional, so far as it operated as an act of original jurisdiction. Because this case was decided nearly fourteen years after the
law-was passed, and we must construe the act as if it were all constitutional, because congress certainly so considered it; and we are
now inquiring into what was their intention, in its various provisions, which can only be known by construing the act as a whole,
embracing its several parts, of which the power in question was one.
But if the other circuit courts of the United States under the powers
given to them, cannot, as has been decided by this Court, issue the,
writ of mandamus, then the circuit court of this, district cannot do
it, under the powers given to it, because its powers are the same
with those of the others. For, by the third section of tbe act establishing it, it and.its judges, are declared to have all the powers by
law-vested in the circuit courts, and the judges of the circuit courts
of'the United States; and even supposing that to refer to the powers
of the ciicuit courts, as organized by the act of 1801, that does not
vary them; because, by the tenth section of that act, those courts are
invested with all the powers heretofore granted. by law to the circuit
courts of the United States; that is, those by the jfidiciary act, unless'where otherwise provided by that acti and there is no pretence,
that there is any power given in"that act, which affects this question.
If then, the jurisdiction and the powers of the' circuit court of this

SUPREME COURT.
[Kendall v. The United States.]

district are the 'same with the jurisdiction and powers of the~other
circuit courts of the United States; and if, as has been solemnly decided by this Court, that jurisdiction and those powers do not authorize the other circuit courts to issue the writ of mandamus, it would
seem to follow, as an inevitable consequence, that neither can the
circuit court of this district issue that writ.
Finally, it was argued, that if all the other sources of power failed,.there is a sufficient one to be found in that section of the act of
1801, establishing the circuit court of this district, by which it is
enacted, that the laws of Maryland as they now exist, shall 'be, and
continue in force in that part of the district which was ceded by
that state to the United States, &c. The. argument founded upon
this section, is in substance this: The laws of'Maryland are deelarel't6 be in force in this part of the district; the common law of
England constitutes a part of those laws; by the common law, in
such a case as this, a writ of mandamus would lie: therefore,the cir.cuit court of this district can issue a mandamus in this case. This
part of the argument proceeds upon the principle, that the adoption
of the common law, per se, authorizes the issijing of the writ. But,
it must be remembered, that the adoption of the common law here,
cannot give any greater power, than the same common law would
give to the courts of-Maryland, from which state it is adopted. Now,
in M'Cluny v. Silliman, it was decided, that a state court could not
issuq a mandamus to an officer of the United States; consequently,
it follows, that no court in Maryland could have issued the writ in
this case: and yet, the argument which I am now considering, seeks
to maintain the position, that vhilst it is conceded that a Maryland
court, with the common law in full force there, could not have issued
this writ, the circuit court of this district has the authority to do so,
by reason of the adoption of that very law which would not give
the authority to do it,
there.
It does seem to me, that to 3tate this proposition is to refite it.
The object of this provision appears, to me to have been. plainly
this: That the citizens of that part of this district, which formerly
belonged to Maryland, should, notwithstanding the cessi '>n, continue
to enjoy the benefit of the same laws to which they had been accustqmed; and that, in the admiiistration of justice in their courts,
ther should be the same rules of decision: thus placing the citizens
of this district substantially in the same situation in this respect, as
the citizens of the several states; with this difference only; that,

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

653,

[Kendall v. The United Stat~s.]

Whilst in the, states there are federal and state courts, in the one or
the other of which justice is administered, according to the character
of the parties, and other circumstances; in this district, by its
judicial organization, the same justice which in the states is administered by the two classes of courts, is here-dispensed by the instrumentality of one court, viz: the circuit court of this district. But
that, as in:-the states, the federAl circuit court cannot issue the writ
of mandamus, because the jurisdiction and powers giveh to them by
congress do not authorize it; so here, the circuit court of this district cannot issue it, by virtue of the jUlisdiction and powers given
to it by congress; (exclusively of the adoption of the laws of Maryland;) because, exclusively of those laws, its jurisdiction and powers,
as I think I have shown, are neither more nor less, in reference to
this subject, than those of the other circuit courts of the United
States. And as in the states, the state courts cannot issue it, although
the common law is in force there; so the circuit court of this district cannot issue it, although the common law, by the adoption of
the laws of Maryland, is in force here; it being, in my opinion,
impossible to maintain the proposition, that the adoption of the common law here, can impart a greater authority than it does to the
courts of the very state from which it was adopted.
The result of that adoption, as it regards this question may, as it
seems to me, be summed up- in this one conclusion:. That, as in
Maryland the common law is in full force which authorizes the
writ of mandamus; and yet a Maryland court can only issue it to a
Maryland officer, and not to an officer of the United States; so
here, the same common law, upon the same principles, would authorize the circuit court of this district to issue the writ to an officer of
the District of Columbia, the duties of whose office pertained to the
local concerns of the district; but not to an officer of the United
States.
Under every aspect in which I have viewed the question, I feel a
thorough conviction, that the circuit court of this district had not
power to issue the writ in question; and, consequently, I am of opinion that the judgment demanding a peremptory mandamus, should
be reversed.
Mr. Justice CATRON concurred in opinion with the Chief Justice,
and Mr. Justice BARBOUR.

