SUPREME COURT

JOSEIPH

S.

GLARLKE AND R16HARD

S.

BRISCOE, A1PELLANT$ V. WIL-

LIAM G. W. WHITE, APPELLEE.
The ddetrine of a court of chancery in dases for specific performance) has reference,
ordinarily, to .executory agreementsfor the conveyance of lands; and ib rarely applied to contracts afecting personal property. Where the relief prayed for in
a bill, is the delivery to the complainant of instruments to which he is entitled,
and not the execution of an executory contract,, no further than to decree the
amodnt ihe complainant has been compelled to pay against the terms of the contrsct; Chancery has jurisdiction of the cause; and the court Will end the cause,
'*ithout sending the partiesto law as, to part, having granted relief for part.
The rule in chancery is, if the answer of the defendant admits a fact, bit insists on
matter by way of avoidance,; the complainant need not prove the fact admitted,
but the defendant must prove the matter in atoidance.
It is generatly true.in cases of composition, that the debtor who agrees to pay a less
sum in the discharge of a contract, must pay punctually; for until performance,
the creditbr is not bound. The reason is obvious; the creditor has the sole right
of modifying the first'contract, and of prescribing the cpnditions of its discharge.
If the agreement stipulates for partial payments, and the debtor fails to pay;,the
condition to take pirt isbroken, the second contract forfeited, and is no bar to the
original cause of action.
In a composition' for a debt, by which ue: party agreed to deliver. goods to the
imount
of seventy per cent. iii satisfaction of a debt exceeding ten thousand dollars, an4 omitted to deliver within one dollr and forty-one cents of the amount;
the mistake is too trivial' to deserve notice.
the true rule as to the interference 'of court of equity in relation, to contracts, in
which'frauh is alleged, was laid ddw*n. 0onard v. The Atlantic Insurance Company, 4 Peters, 297. "If the person against whom the fraud is alleged, should be
proven toiave been guiltyof it in any number ofinstances;" still, if the particular
act sought to be avoided, be not shown to be tainted with fraud; it cannot be asserted with the other frauds; unless in some way or other it be connected with, or
form a part of them."
in equity, as in law, fraud and. injury must concur to furnish ground for judicial action. 'A mere fraudulent intent, unaccompanied by any injurious act, is not the
subject of judicial cognizance. Fraud ought not to be conceived; it must be proved,
and expressly fetind.
By the common law, a deed of land is vqlid without registration; and where register
acts reqpir6 deeds to be recorded, they are valid until the time prescribed by the
statute has expired; and, if recorded Within the time, are as effectual from the date
of execution,, a if no register act existed.
Where there is clearly a bona fide grantor, the grant is not one of those conveyances within the statutes against fraudulent conveyances.
W'.purchased a lot of ground in the city of Washington, early in 1829, for one thousand five hundred and thirty-two dollars, on a credit of one, two and three years;
and paid the notes at maturity. He took possession immediately after the purchase, and commenced improving by erecting buildings on it. On the' 14th of

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

179

[Clarke et al. v, White.]
January, 1832, Smith, who had.sold the land at the request of W.; conveyed it to a
trustee, for the bonefito4f the infant chiidren of W. The improvements bfore the
deed,.amounted in value to .three thousand dollars, and after the deed to twelve
hundred dollars, or fifteen hundred dollars. He failed in December, 1833; and
the property was then worth about sin thousand dollars, The deed of conveyance
by Smith, was not recorded until within one,day of the expiration of the time prescribed for recording quch deed, by the statutel of Maryland. The parties Who
made a composition of a large debt due to them b .W., in which composition they
sustained a loss of thirty per cent., knew at the time of the composition of the conveyance ot this property to the infant children of W. and of his large improvements
on the same; and made the composition with this knowledgd. The Court refused
to declare the agreement of,composition void, because of this transaction, He
who purchases unsound property, with knowledge of its unsoundness at the time,
cannot maintain an action against the seller. So if one compounds a-debt, or
makes any other contract, with a full knowledge of all tHe ficts, acting at arm's
length upon his, jullgment, and fails to guard against loss; he must abide by the
. consequences. Neither fraud nor mistake can'be imputed to such an agreement.
If, upon failure or insolvency; one creditor goes into'a,contra'ct of generai composition common to the others; at the .same time, having an underhand agreement
with the eebtor, to receive a larger per cent.; such agreement:is fraudulent and
void.
The rule cutting off underhand agreements in cases of joint and general compositions as,a fraud upon the other compounding creditors and liecaus such agreements are subversive of sound morals and public policy; has no application to 4
case where each creditor acts not only for himself hutjn oppositioii to every other
creditor: all equally relying on their vigilan~ci' to gain a priority;' which, if obtained, each being entitled to 'have satisfaction- cannot be quedtioned.
The debtor may 'prefer one creditor, pay him fully, and exhaust his whole property,
leaving nothing for otners equally meritorious.
Before a ' mposition was made by a debtor with two of his creditors, who were pakt.
ners, in which it was agreed that certain notes given by him to the creditors,
should be delivered up to 'him, two of the notes, among, those agreed by the composition to be delivered up, had been, before they were at muturity, passed away
-by the creditors. The debtor asked by a bill filed against his creditors, with *hom
he had made the composition, tbat the court should order these notes to be deli.
vered to him. Held, that the decree of the circuit courti,refuising to order these
notes should be delivered up, was correct.

ON appeal from the circuit court of the United States, for the county.
of. Washington, in the District of Columbia.
.i the circuit court, the.appellee, William G. W. White, filed a
bill against the appellants, charging, that on the 2d of July, 1832,
the complhinant passed to the defendantp, Clarke and Briscoe, his
twenty-six promissory notes of that date, each: for the sum of two
hundred and seventy-four dollars and sixty-seven cents, payabl6
monthly, from sixteen to forty-four .months, making- the sum of
seven thousand one hundred and forty-one, dollars and- forty-two

SUPREME COURT.
[Clarke et al. v. White.]

cents; three of which said notes were subsequently passed by said
defendants to Clagett and Washington. That on the 30th December,
1833, he entered into an agreement with the said Clarke and Briscoe,
to anticipate the period of credit on the said notes, and to pay the
said sum of seven thousand one hundred and forty-one dollars and
forty-two cents, in goods and merchandise, at seventy cents in the
dollar,, on the price the said goods were marked to have cost; that
the said Clarke and Briscoe agreed to receive the said goods and
merchandise, on the terms aforesaid, in full payment of the said sum
of money, and to deliver up the said notes then in their possession;
and speedily to take up such of the said notes as had been negotiated, and to deliver the whole to the complainant, that they might
be cancelled. The complainant states that he fulfilled his part of the
agreement in every particular; that he delivered, to said Clarke and
Briscoe, and they received goods and merchandise according to the
terms of the said contract, to the full amount agreed to be delivered,
save a fraction of one dollar and forty-one cents, which was ubsequently tendered and refused; but that the said Clarke and Briscoe,
having obtained possession of the said goods, retain the said notes,
and refuse to perform their part of the said agreement. The complainant, in a supplemental bill, states that Clagett and Washington,
to whom three of the said notes had been passed by the defendants,
after the date of the said agreement, instituted suits against the complainant, on the said three notes, in the circuit court of the District
of Columbia; and that by judgment of the said court, the complainant has been obliged to pay, and had paid to the said Clagett and
Washington, the sum of one thousand and eighty-three dollars and
fifty-five cents. The complainant prays, that Clarke and Briscoe may
be, by decree, ordered to bring into court the said unpaid- notes to
be. cancelled; and to pay to the complainant the said sum of one
thousand and eighty-three dollars and fifty-five cents; so paid to
Clagett and Washington; and for general relief.
The answer of the defendants, the appellants, admits that the
complainant gave the several promissory notes mentioned in the
bill, and that three of the same were passed to Clagett and Washington, as stated; and they~say the consideration for the notes, was
the sale- of a large invoice of goods, made about the time of the
dates of the notes, or shortly before; that the terms and conditions
of such sale were, that the complainant should punctually take up
and pay the notes, as the same should respectively fall due; and, ih

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Clarke et al.

White.]

consideration of the complainant's solemn verbal. pledge and assurance, that such notes should be so punctually taken up and paid; and.
upon the faith and confidence'of such pledge and assurance, the
defendants agreed to deduct five per cent. from the amount of said
invoice, and accordingly from the aggregate amount, for which the
complainant passed his notes, on account of said sale. The defendants
deny that they did make the agreement with complainant, respecting the compromise of their claim against the complainant, and the
cancelling of the notes, in the terms and upon the conditions set
forth in the bill; but they admit and aver, that, about the time mentioned in the bill, in consequence of hearing the complainant:had
failed in business, and was compromising with his cre itors, a eonversation and arrangement did take place between the" defendant,
Clarke, and the complainant; in which the defendant asked him upon
what terms the' complainant would settle the whole claim bf the defendants; not merely on what terms he would settle the amount of the
notes; upon Which complainant offered to settle it at sixty cents in the
dollar, and pay in goods. Clarke answered., that he understood the
complainant had compromised with other of his creditors at seventy
cents in the dollar; and hoped the complainant would not think
of putting off the defendants with less; and. the complainant atlength
agreed to pay the defendants, in goods, the whole amount of their
the dollar, and pay the balance,
claim, at the rate of seventy cents in,
but insisted that they should
able:
was
he
when
cent.,
viz, thirty per
as they lay upon the
'selection,
without
take the goods -in ffiasseS,
Clarke: nor was
defendant,
by
shelves; which was finally agreed to
between. themon
it till after the arrangement had been so agreed
selves) that any thing was said between them, about the defendants'
getting up and cancelling the complainant's notes: but, afterwards,
they admit a conversation on that subject did ensue between defendant, Clarke, and the complainant, in which it was understood and
arranged between them, that, upon the settlement of the defendants'
whole claim, by paying the same in goods, at, the rate, of seventy
cents in the dollar, the defendants should get in and cancel said notes;
not upon the settlement, in that mode,-of the amount of the notes.
merely: such was not the understanding of the parties, atleast not
of either of the defendants; 'but the true amount of their just claim
against the complainant; the amount understood by defendant, Clarke,
at'the time, was not the aggregate amount of the. notes merely, but
of the original invoice; in liquidation of the amount of which, with

SUPREME COURT.
,[Clarke et al. v. White.]

a deduction of five per cent., the notes had been given: and, inasmuch as that deduction had been allowed, upon the faith and confidence alone of the complainant's pledge and assurance to pay the
notes punctually, as aforesaid; and, as he had.totally failed to comply with said pledge and assurance, the defendants considered that
in equity, indeed in strict justice, they were entitled to the' amount
of the invoice, without such deduction.
The answer of the defendants further states, that the complainant
has not, to the time of filing the 'answer, complied substantially or.
otherwise with the terms of the compromise, in the sense in Which
it was properly understood and agreed upon, so as to etititle him at
any time to call in the notes given for the goods -delivered to him;
that the notes were to be delivered to him, on the entire settlement
of the claims of the respondents on him, he not having delivered
goods to the respondents to the amount of the bill, and he having
refused to deliver the goods to the respondents, without the said deduction. That the goods 'delivered to the respondents were the
residue or remains' of the goods originally sold to the complainant,
'after he had enjoyed the use and profit of them, os a part of his assortment of goods, for eighteen months; and if the compromise had
been carried fully into effect, it would have been a most hard and
4isad.vantageous one to the. respondents. The compromise was not
binding on the respondents, in consequence of the gross frauds and
impositions practised by the complainant upon the respondents, and
his other creditors, in order to alarm them into compromises of their
debts with him, as with a merchant debtor, who has been subjected
by the casualties of trade to failure; that the whole matter of the pretended failure of the complainant, was a deliberate, artful'and fraudulent scheme, device and contrivance of the comiplainant to alarm arid
force his creditors into compromises; while he had, in part,' ample
means to pay off all his debts, and have a"surplus on hand; that with
these ample means, he proclaimed his insolvency, and .was thus
.enabled to make advantageous compromises with his creditors, according to the circumstances of his creditors, and the state of their
fears..-- That preparatory to this scheme of fraudulent failure, and
during the very season, and shortly before it was proclaimed, he had
made unusually large purchases on credit, and had so increased his
stock of goods much beyond its usual amount; and, just after he had
completed this fraudulent accumulation of stock, he gave out his
failure in business and insolvency, and set on foot his plan of fraudu-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

183

[Clarke et al. v. White.]

lent compromisw. It was under the greatest pressure of this alarm,
and whilst it was fraudulently used 4y complainant to practise upon
the fears of his creditors, that the defendants Were fraudulently
and deceitfully drawn by him into such agreement, for a compromise, as they have stated and.admitted.
The answer further states, that. it is the belief of the defendants,
that the complainant had for some time meditated the frauds perpetrated by him; and that before he purchased the goods from the defe.dants, some time about the 9th of July, 1832, he caused to he
entered in the land records of this county, a fraudulent deed, settling
valuable property on his family, which had been executed in the
month of January preceding; and in the meantime kept se'cret.
This deed conveys the property described in it to a trustee, for the
children of the complainant, all minors, and in extreme youth; and
was not recorded until within one day of the six months allowed by
the law of the District of Columbia, had nearly expired.
To the answer of the defendants, a general replication was filed,
and the parties went on to take depositions to maintain or deny the
allegations in the pleadings. No evidence was given to sustain the
assertion in the answer, that the complainant agreed, at any time, to
pay the residue of the debt to the defendants, if he should bb able,
at any time afterwards, to pay the same. The evidence contained
in these depositions is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
The circuit court gaye a decree in favour of the complainant,
according to the.. prayer of the b;ll; and the respondents presented
this appeal.
The case was argued by Mr. Hoban and Mr. Jones for the appellants, and by Mr. Marburv and Mr. Key for the appellee.
The counsel for the appellants contended1. The complainant has laid no ground in his bill for equitable
relief. Neither the agreement itself, as alleged in the bill, nor any
of the collateral circumstances,. being of a nature to call for specific
performance, or any other relief in equity.
2. But whatever the ierms or the nature of the composition, and
however fit it may be in its own nature for specific performance in
equity, the whole of the complainant's equity is repelled by a countervailing equity in defendants, from his promise, as one of their
concomitant inducements to the composition, to pay the full amount

SUPREME COURT.
[Clarke et al. v. White.]

of the debt, when able to do so; and from the fact, both averred ana
proved,'that he was able to pay the whole debt.
3. A composition of a failing trader with his creditors, being
strictissimi juris, must be fulfilled by the debtor to the letter; and
any failure ii complying with its terms, in a minute particular on
his part, however far he may go in part performance, vitiates and
annuls the whole composition.
4. According to the complainant's own showing, he has failed to
fulfil the composition in terminis; and he has, to this day, something
further to do in order to fulfil it: yet he has not even been decreed
to fulfil it.
5. There is no evidence in the cause competent and sufficient to
oyerrule so much of the answer as denies the agreement for composition alleged in the bill, and avers a materially different agreement.
6. Taking the terms of the composition to be such as the answer
avers, and puts in the place of what it denies; there appears a still
more important, palpable, and fatal breach of ite terms on the part
of complainant.
7. The actual, frauds, which the answer charges, in the elaboration of the scheme of artificial and feigned failure and insolvency
for defrauding the creditors of their dues, and overreaching them
with unfair compositions under deceitful pretexts; are fully made
out in proof; and are sufficient, and more than sufficient, to set aside
the complainant's compositidn with the defendants, and every composition with his other creditors.
8. The inequality alone in his various compositions with!his creditors, (all the other-circumstances of fraud being out of the question,)
is a fraud, per se, both at law and equity; and sufficient of 'itself,
either at law or in equity, to vitiate and set aside each and every of
the compositions, from the lowest to the highest.
The counsel argued that the actual proofs in the case not only sustain the answer on the second ground of defence throughout, but
make out a far stronger case, in detail, than the general averments of
the answer had represented it.
They argued' as to the long concocted and prepared scheme of
fraud, with a view to failure in business and feigned insolvency; and
to consequent compositions with creditors, under- the pressure of
alarm for the safety of their debts; two prominent facts are, in addition to many minut(r circumstances, fully and conclusively proved.
First, as to the settlement of certain real estate on his minor chil-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

185

[Clarke et al. v. White.]

dren, as stated in the answer. It appears that in 1829 he purchased
the property-in his'owni name, and on his own account, and gave his
notes for the purchase money: by instalments, and was to receive a
conveyance upon payment of the last instalment; that he 'duly paid
up all the instalments out of his own proper means and resources;
that when, upon payment of the last instalment, he called for a conveyance, he took it to his brother, a youth of seventeen or eighteen
years, in trust. for his three children, the oldest of whom was then
only five years old, and- consequently was less than two years old at
the time of the purchase, more than three years before; that he had
never given the slightest intimation, during all the three years he
had held and improved theproperty, of any trust for his. children,
till he called for such conveyance; and that'he had expended about
four thousand five hundred dollars. 6f, his own money in buildings
upon the property-three thousand dollars before, and fifteen hundred dollars after the conveyance in trut. The deed bears date'
on the 14th January, 1832, and was not produced for public record
till the 13th July following,bthe very day befpre it would have run
out of date; and in.the.mean time, whilst that conveyance was kept
secret, and he, stood forward as the ostensible owner of the property,
he contracted this large. debt to the defendants, by a purchase of
their goods, to the amount of near thirteen thousand dollars; just ten
or eleven days before he produced the deed, and had it committed
to public record. There is no averment or pretence, either in pleading or evidence, of any good or valuable consideration for this settlement; on the contrary, the terms and recitals of the deed itself,
and all the circumstances in evidence conclusively repel the presumption of any such consideration. Second: that in laying in his
stock of goods for the fall season of 1833, by purchases of goods'in
the northern cities, at a time just before his alleged failure in business, and when he must have necessarily anticipated the result if it
arose. from any real difficulty and emkarrassmeht inshis circumstances,
he. purchased a much larger stock than he had ever been accustomed
to lay in; and with all this increased stock, or the proceeds, fresh
and full in hand, suddenly and unexpectedly to all the world announced, not any mere difficulty and embarrassment in his affairs,
but absolute and hopeless insolvency, and an immense deficit of
assets in proportion to his debts; and upon that footing negotiated
his compositions with his creditors.
As to the charge of an artificial and feigned failure and insolvency,
VoL. XII.-2 A

SUPREME COURT.
[Clarke et al. v. White.]

the actual proof in the cause is cogent to the conclusion, that he broke
full handed; with abundance of assets to pay all his debts; and that
he made an immense profit from his compositions with his creditors.
As to the charge in the xnswer rbspecting the inequalities in-his
compositions with his various creditors, that, also, is more than sustained in proof: for it appears, that whilst he was compounding with
the mass of his creditors at various rates, from fbrty to eighty-seven
cents in the-dollar, according as he could work upon their fears of still
heavier losses from his insolvency; he actually paid particular individuals, whom he, found more sagacious and firm than the others,
the whole amount of their claims, after unavailing attempts to beat
them down to a composition.
Pending this suit, Clagett & Washington recovered judgments at
law against him on his three notes passed to them by defendants,
amounting, with interest and costs, to one thousand eighty-three dollars fifty-five cents; all of which judgments he fully satisfied before
the finaldecree passed in this cause.
By that decree the defendants are decreed to refund to the complainant the amount so paid by him to Clagett and Washington, with
interest on the same from the datp of the decree; and, without delay,
to bring into court the remaining twenty-three of said notes, to be
cancelled; which notes are declared by the decree to be forever null
and void, &c.
The. counsel for the appellants cited 2 Atkyns, 566; 2 Story's
Equity. 18; 1 Vernon, 47, 210; 2 Corny. on Contracts, 380; 1 Stra.
Rep. 425; 1 Bro. Chan. 167; 1 Story's Equity, 25,0; 1 Pickering's
Rep. 340; Dickson, 411; 1 Chan. Cases, 105.
Mr. Manoury and Mr. Jones, the counsel for the appellee, contended:
1. That the contract between the complainant and defendant of the
30th December, 1 33, is truly stated in the bill; and has been fully
complied with on the part of the complainant.
2. That the said contract was made at the instance and by the requ9st of the appellants, without solicitation on the part of the complainant; and without any fraud or imposition practised by him on
the defendants to induce them to enter into the same.
3. That the relief prayed for by the complainant below, is within
the jurisdiction of a court of equity.
The counsel for the appellee denied all fraud in the transactions
between him and the apnellants. While the appellee substantially

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Clarke et al. v. White.]

and effectually complied with his agreement, the appellants have altogether failed on their part. The, misfortunes of the appellee obliged
him to rnake the compromises effected with his creditors; and that
which was entered into with the appellants was made in good faith,
and was so executed by him.. Th'e agreement made with the appellants was that stated in the bill; and the appellants did not prove in
the circuit court any other agreement. Many of the allegations in
the answers are not supported by proof; and they are therefore to
have no weight with the Court in their consideration of the' case.
A court of chancery ha. jurisdiction to direct the delivery of notes
or bonds, or deeds, which a party cannot, in conscience, withhold,;
1 John. Chan. Rep. 517; 2 Story's Equity, 11.
The settlement of the real estate was open and notorious. The deed
was put upon the public records. The compromisemade with the
appellants, had no connection with arrangements made with other
creditors; and is not to he affected by them. The principles of law
which render a composition with, creditors void, on the ground of inequality or concealment, do not apply to such a case as this. Where
a general compromise is made, apparently equal, but some of the
creditors have been induced to assent to it by a private, and more
beneficial agreement; it will be void. But such is not the case before
the Court. Cases cited in the argument, 5 East, 230;' 5 John. Rep.
291; 12 Price's Rep. 183.
Mr. Justice CATroN delivered the opinion of the Court:
The appellants contend the decree should be reversed, and the
bill dismissed; upon various propositions of law and fact.
1st. It is insisted: "The complainant has laid no ground in bi.
bill for equitable relief. Neither the agreement itself, as alleged in
the bill, nor any of khe collateral circumstances, being of a nature
to call for a specific performance in equity."
The doctrine of specific performance has reference, ordinarily, to*
executory agreements for the conveyance of lands, and 'is rarely applied to contracts affecting personal property. 2 Story's Eq. 26, 36.
Nor is relief sought by the complainant on this head of jurisdiction.
To encumber the case made by the pleadings with doctrines foreign
to the subject matter litigated, would tend to confound principles
in their nature dissimilar and separate. The relief prayed, is the
delivery to the complainant of instruments to which he is entitled.
2 Story's Eq. 12. Not the execution of an executory contract, fur-

SUPREME COURT.
[Clarke et al. v. White.]

ther than to decree the amount he has been compelled to pay to
Clagett and Washington; "which is an incident to the exercise of jurisdicion that coerces- the delivery of the instruments.
So material a part of the transaction being clearly within the jurisdiction of the Court, it will of course end the 6ause; without sending
the parties to law as to part, having granted relief for part.
2d. It is assumed: "But whatever the terms, or the nature of the
composition, and hovever fit it maybe, in its own nature, for specific performance iriequity, the whole of the complainant's equity
is repelled- by a countervailing equity in defendants; from his promise as one of their concomitant inducements to the composition to
pay the full amount of the debt, when able to do so; and from the
fact, both averred and proved, that be was able to pay the whole
debt. Did the complainadnt, White, promise to pay the full amount
of the. debt when he was able to.do so; and, by this means, nduce
the respondents to make a composition then to receive seventy cents
in'the dollar, as partial payment? If this was the contract, and the
complainiant was able to pay the full amount at the time, he was immediately bound for'the thirty cents in the dollar in addition; and
tfie respondents are entitled either to have the bill dismissed, so that
.they may enforce the contract at law, for the balance due; or they
must have administered to them in"
equity the same relief, by a decree for the thirty per, cent.; founded on the familiar rule, that he
who seeks equity, must, as a condition, do equity to the respondents,
hdfre the relief can be granted. We must, therefore, inquire what
the contract was. The bill, iii substance, alleges that the aggregate
amount secured by the n'otes prayed to be surrendered,.was seven
thousand, one 'hundred and forty-one dbllars and forty-tw.o cents;
that the notes were not due when the co'mposition. was made;- that
the parties entered into an agreement to anticipate the period of
credit on them, by which White undertook to deliver to'Clarke and
Briscoe, and they agreed to fecnive of White,'goods 'and merchandise, in full payment of the sum due, at the rate of seventy cents. in
thedollar, estimating the goods then in White's store, at~the prices
marked on them as cost prices; that the goods were delivered in
discharge of the debt; and the notes, as evidences of it, were to be'
surrendered to White, on the delivery of the goods.
To this specific allegation, it is answered: "These defendants
d6ny that they did make the agreement with complainant respecting the compromise of their claim against the complainant; anil the-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Clarke et al. v. White.]

cancelling of said notes in the, terms, and upon the conditions .V
fdrth in said bill: but they admit and aver, that about the time mentioned in said bill, in conse queflce of hearing the complainant hod
failed in business, and was compromising with his creditors, a conversation ,and arrangement did take. place between the defendant,
Clarke, and the complainant; in which said defendant asked him
upon what terms the complainant would settle .the 'whofe 'claim of
the defendants, not merely on what terms he would settle the amount
of said notes; upon which complainant offered:,,to settle i at sixty
cents in the dollar, and pay in goods. Said defendant, Clarke, answered that he understood complainant had compromised with other
of his creditors at seventy cents in the dollar, and hoped complainant would not think of putting off 'the defendants -with leas and
complainant at length agreed to pay defendants, in -goods, the.whole
amount of their claim, at the rate of seventy cents in the dollar, and
pay the balance, viz. thirty per cent., when he was able: but insisted
that they should take the goods.in masses, without selection, as they
lay upon the shelves; which was finally- agreed to by defendant,
Clarke: .hor was it -till after the arrangement had been so agreed or
between themselves, that any thing was said between then about
the defendants' getting up and cancelling the complainant's notes:
but afterwards, they admit a conversation on that subject did ensue
between defendant, Clarke, and the complainant, in which it was
understood and arranged between them,'that upon the settlement of
the defendants' whole claim, by paying the same in goods at.the rate
of seventy cents in the dollar; the defendants should get in 'and cancel said notes; not upon the settlement in that mode of the amount
of the notes merely; such was not the understanding of the parties,
at least of either of these' defendants: but the true amount of their
just claim against the complainant; the amount understood by defendant, Clarke, at the time, was not the aggregate amount of the
notes merely, but of the original invoice, in liquidation of the amount
of which, with a deduction of five per cent., the notes had -been
given; and inasmuch as tlat deduction had been allowed upon the
faith And confidence alone of the complainant's said pledge and assuranoe to pay the said notes, punctually, as aforesaid; and as he had
totally failed to comply with said pledge! and assurance, these defendants considered that, in' equity, indeed, in strict justice, they
were entitled to the amount of the invoice, without such deductionr"
Whether the thirty per cent., in addition, is due to the appellants

SUPREME COURT.
[Clarke et al. v. White.]

by the contract, depends on the evidence: the: answer admits the
agreement of composition to be truly set out in the bill, so far as it
is set forth; but insists, that so much of it as stipulated for the full
payment of the notes when the complainant was able, is omitted.
The rule in such case is: "If the answer 6f the defendant admits a
fact, but insists on matter by way of avoidance, the complainant need
not prove. the fact admitted, but the defendant must prove the matter
in avoidance." Dyer, 108. The defendants adduced no evidence,
tending in the slightest degree to establish the 'statement in the answer.
The complainant, however, pr6ceeded to prove -the contract by. different witnesses, to be such (and no other,) as the bill alleges it to
have been. We give extracts from the depositions of two of his
witnesses.
"Do you or do you not remember a compromise made between the
complainant and the defendants, Clarke and Briscoe, relative to the
payment of a certain debt due from the said complainant to the said
defendants, If yea, state the subject of the said compromise, and
the terms of it."
"To thp second. I do. The claim was for the original pureLise
made of Clarke anl Briscoe, by complainant, in 1832; and the agreement was to pay the notes given for that purchase, by giving them
,goods at seventy cents in the dollar, at the prices which they were
marked as having cost. Mr. Clarke made the agreement. He was
to commence at any part of the store he chose, and take the goods
as they came, till his claimas satisfied. Some of the notes had
been passed away by Clarke and- Briscoe. These they were to take
up, and return with'the other notes, to Mr. White, as. soon after the
goods were delivered as he could get them. There were no engagements, so far as I know, to pay the balance of thirty per cent. at any
time. I was present when the bargain was made. They took the
goods 'upon those terms, to the full amount of their claim, except
one dollar and forty-one cents.,"
"To the second. I recollect Mr. Clarke's coming into Mr.
White's store, and- wishing to know in what way they would settle.
The result of their conversation was, that Mr. White should give
him seventy cents in the dollar, in 'goods, for the amount of his
claim. The claim was for the balance due to Clarke and Briscoe, for
the purchase of a stock of goods made of them by Mr. White, in
1832. The terms of the compromise were, that Mr. Clarke should
commence at any part of the store where he chose, and go on taking

JANUARY TERM, 1838.
[Clarke et al. v. White.]
all fhe goods as they came, till -he got the full amount of his claim,
at seventy cents in the dollar, at the price which the goods, were
marked to have cost. Mr. Clarke was to deliver up to Mr. White
the notes which remained unpaid for the purchase in 1832."
The assumption, therefore, that the complainant's equity is repelled by the countervailing equity of the defendants, because of the
promise to pay the full amount of the debt when complainant was
able; cannot be sustained.
It is, third and fourtn, assumed, that "A composition of a failing
trader with, his creditor, being strictissimi juris, must be fulfilled by
the debtor to the letter; and any failure in complying with its
terms, in a minute particular on his part, however far he may go in
part performance, vitiates and annuls the wholepeempbsition.
"According to the complainant's own showing, he has failed to
fulfil the composition in terminis; and he has, to this day, something
further to do in order to fulfil it; yet he has not even been decreed
to fulfil it."
It is generally true, in cases of composition, that tne debtor who
agrees to pay a less sum in discharge of a contract, must pay punctually; for, until performance, the creditor is not bound. The reason is obvious; the creditor'has the sole right of modifying the first
contract, and of prescribing the conditions of its discharge; if the
agreement for composition stipulates for partial payment, and the
debtor fails to pay, the condition to take part is broken, the second
contract forfeited, and no bar to the original cause of action. 16
Ves. 374.
It will be necessary to examine whether any question is raised to
which the principle can be applied. We have seen there is no evi
dence sustaining the claim for thirty per cent. on the seven thousand
one hundred and forty-one dollars forty-two cents, adjusted by the
composition; but it is also insisted by the answer that if White
failed to pay punctually for the goods purchased from C. and B. in
1832, he then contracted, to pay five per cent. in addition, on the
invoice in liquidation of which the notes were given.
The averment is, independent of any allegation in the" bill, very
improbable in itself, and not sustained by the slightest proof. We
take it, therefore, no such agreement was mace.
At the time the goods were delivered, through inadvertence, one
dollar forty-one cents remained due to Clarke and Briscoe. When
White discovered it, he offered to pay the amount, which the. respon-

SUPREME COURT.
[Clarke' et al v. White.]

dentb refused to receive. The fact is set forth in the bill, -h
noticed in the answer. If, however, an issue had been taken upon it,
we think the mistake ofa character too trivial to deserve notice: the
defendants disregarded it when the goods.were in a course of delivery, and admitted the contract of, composition, to the amount of
seventy cents in the dollar, to be discharged: and' so this -Court
holds.
White's compliance will, therefore, bear the test of all the legal
strictness, supposed in argument to apply.in cases of performing contracts of composition.
Fifth and sixth, it is insisted:
"There is no evidence in, the cause competent and sufficient to
overrule so much of the. answer as denies the agreement for composition, alleged in the bill; and avers a materially different agreement."
"Taking'the terms of the, composition to be such as the answer
avers and puts in the place of wna it denies, there appears a still
more important, palpable, and fatal breach ,of its terms on the pairt of
complainant."
We reply, that the evidence is competent, and amply sufficient to
overrule the parts of the answer responsive to the bill; and that the
terms of the composition were not such as the answer avers.
Seventh, it is insisted:
"The actual frauds which the answer charges, in the elaboration
of the scheme of artificial and feigned failure and insolvency, for defrauding the creditors of their dues, and overreaching them with
unfair compositions under 'deceitful pretexts, are fully made out in
ptoof; and are sufficient, and more than su~ffidient5 to set aside the complainant's composition with the defendants, and, every composition
with his other creditors."
This being the ground upon which most reliance was placed to
make out the defence, it is due to the argument that we examine the
point in the form it has been presented for the appellants; and consequently, that some attention be bestowed on the evidence tending
to prove fraudulent conduct in the appellep, without nicely discriminating how far it applies to the cause made by the pleadings- It is
contended, that the correspondepce, the attempts at composition with
the.Baltimore merchants, and the agreements with them and others,
furnish evidence of a fraudulent intent in the appellee to alarm and
overreach- his creditors generally, thereby to draw them into corn-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

193

[Clarke et al. y. White.]

PO'ttions at low rates, by deceitful pretexts: which position, it is
assumed, is fully made out in proof: and that the appellants were
victims to, the common fraud and subierfuge is a fair inference; at all
events, if actual fraud does not appear, that it is evident the complainant did not come into Court with an unaffected conscience;' in
which case he cannot call upon the active power of the Court fQr relief; that, in the phrase of early times) the complainant must come.
into equity with clean hands.

If any deception was practised whereby the appellants were drawn
into a losing bargain, and a sacrifice of thirty per cent. of their just
demand; the Court could not, consistently with the principle referred
to, afford its active aid to the complainarit. But, if it be. assumed
that a court of equity can refuse relief because the complainant in
settling with other creditors, imposed on them, and hence his conscience is affected, the assumption must be rejected as unsound. Such
extraneous dealings are not within the issue, and do not belong to
the cause, further than they can be connected with the transaction as
evidence of a connected system of fraud, to produce alarm and action
on the -part of these particular creditors.
To press'further the principle) that a complainant must come into
a court of equity, when he asks its aid, with a clear conscience; would
be assuming ati unlimited and undefined discretion to dismiss the bill,
not for want of 'equity in the allegations and corresponding proof, but
because of the bad conduct in life and character of the complainant.
The t,
rule is: " If the person. against whom, fraud is alleged,
should be proved. to have been guilty of it in any number of instances;
still, if the particular act sought to be avoided, be not shown to be
tainted -with fraud, it,cannot be affected with the other frauds; unlessin some way or other it be connected, with or form a Part of them."
Conard v. Nicoll, ,4 Peters, 297.
Testing the force and effect of the-evidence, with this explanation
of the rule, in virtue of which it is sought to give it effect; and what
does it establish? For years before the fall of 1833, when the transactions we are investigating took place, the complainant, White, had
been a retail dry goods' merchant in Washington city, of reputed
opulence, and decidedly good credit. In 1833, the city business was
depressed, and the sales reduced, compared with. former years; the
retailers generally bought- light stocks for the fall trade, predicting
pressure in ,the money market, and difficult times. White, on the
contrary, purchased much larger than usual, asserting it as his opinion,
VOL. XII.- -Z B
'

SUPREME COURT
[Clarke et a].v White.]

that trade would assume its usual vigour, and that the ordinary quantity of goods would be needed during the then approaching long
session of congress: his fall purchases amounted to near thirty-four
thousand dollars, and added to those of the spring made forty-seven
thousand eight hundred and fifty-seven dollars. In the previous year
(1832) he had purchased thirty-three thousand eight hundred and
ninety-two dollars' worth of goods for his stores; having one in
Georgetown also. It is insisted that these large purchases were made
with A prospective view to a failure, and compositions at thirty and
fifty per cent. discount; the complainant at the same time being perffctly solvent in fact. That purchasing largely was an elaborated
scheme, with a view to future and feigned insolvency, designed, on
the part of White,'to overreach his -creditors, it is difficult to believe.
His exertions to maintain his credit after his first notes were dishonoured, and to quiet the Baltimore creditors, whose suspicions had
been awakened from his heavy purchases in September, could not
well hive been more earnest, active or ingenious; and this, up to the
time when the Baltimore creditors, by a bill of injunction, restrain6d
complainant from proceeding in his business; and which prostrated
his credit and character to such a degree as to render a failure inevitable had the means of payment been ample as they are asserted to
have been.,
It is probable that the appellant was insolvent, and knew the fact
to be so when he made the fall purchases of 1833; and that he incurred the dangerous risk of so large an overtrading in the hope that
chance and a desperate effort might save him: that if he must fail, it
would not be material for what amount he failed, if he had the goods
on hand, or their proceeds, should they be soldwhen the event. happened, This certainly was bad faith, if true, in reference to the
creditors from whom the stock of goods, for 1833, had been purchased; but how it could affect the respondents, who had the previous
year trustd White, on long credits, cannot be -perceived;- they r6ceived payment out of the goods thus obtained to the amount of
seventy per cent.; and in this aspect of the alleged fraud, by complainant on the wholesale dealers, the appellants surely -have no just
grounds to complain.
But the merits of the defeneu, it is earnestly urged, rest on the
question whether the-appellee was solvent and able to pay his whole
debts at the date of the composition and contract to take a part. On
this head the evidence is tolerably satisfactory: an account of White's

JANUARY TE1RM, 1838.
[Clake e. al. v. White.]

means and liabilities was demanded of him by the Baltimore creditors
as early as the 3d 'of December, 1833, which was furnished, and is
no doubt substantially correct; af least so the creditors treated it, and
nothing is found in the record to disprove the statement. That tie
owed the debts there set forth is certain; and that he had the means
to meet them- is very improbable, as the creditors instituted and
exercised a scrutiny not likely to overlook secreted property: and
money, there can be no doubt, there was none, for the complainant,
in good faith, seems to have discharged many of his bank debts, with
others, to the extent of all the cash he could command, amounting to
twelve thousand dollars, during the months of October and Novem..
her, 1833.
This brings us to the debts and means of payment. On the 3d of
December, the complainant owed in Baltimore fifteen thousand one
hundred and fifty-five dollars; in Philadelphia fourteen thousand four
hundred and sixteen; in New York ten thousand seven hundred and
sixty-four; and in Washington .city nine thousand two hundred and
fifty-one; in all forty-nine thousand five hundred .and eighty-six
dollars.
The means of payment were the stocks of goods in Washington
and Georgetown, twenty-six thousand five hundred dollars; good
debts, two thousand four hundred and forty-six; doubtful debts, two
thousand five hundred and thirty-three: the aggregate of active means
thirty-one thousand four hundred and forfy-nine dollars.
Real estate four thousand dollars; household furniture one thousand
seven 'hundred and fifty; these items added to the goods and debts,
make thirty-seven thousand two hundred and twenty-nine dollars'
worth of property.
'then there were exhibited bad debts, due to the complainant,
amount, ten thousand one hundred and sixty-five, dollars. On these
desperate debts no business man could place any reliance; and they
are, therefore, disregarded by the Court when estimating the availableproperty of the appellee: and the same might, with something of
safety, be assumed of the item consisting of household goods;' the
idea 'that the wealthy wholesale dealer will strip the family of his
unfortunate retail customer, of their beds, furniture, and utensils, has
no place in the mercantile transactions of this 'country. Retaining
this item, how6ver, and the complainant had twewtv-five per cent. less
property than the amount of the demands against him; and of course
could not have paid more than seventy-five per cent. The fourth of

SUPREME COURT.
[Clarke et al. v, White.],

forty-nine thousand five hundred and, eighty-six: dollats, (the aggregate of the debts,) is twelve thousand three hundred and ninety-six;
the-property in hand (thirty-seven thousand two hundred and twentynine dollars) deducted from the indebftrient, shows an excess of debts
over means of twelve thousand three hundred, and fifty-seven dollars.
This state of 'facts had been exposed to the' creditors of the appellee, on the 3d of December;. and Clarke aind Briscoe applied for
an adjustment, on the z9th of the month: of cotirse, they were
familiar with it; ,they made no inquiry, for, information. ahid no demand for more than seventy, per cent.The n6tes of. appellants were not, due, and. they were .obviously
and 'very justly impressed with the belief, that the debt- wold be
lost if WhitT did not compound it; he was urged. by-them to deliver
goods to cover seventy per cent. ; this' he at first declined, and offer.ed sixty; bu.t, on being remin4ed that~others had received payment
At the rate of.seventy per cent4, he, with obvious reluctance, assented.
But more fhan seventy per cent. was received by Clarke & Briscoe,
because their notes were-not then due: They pressed the debtor to the
highest rate,,of composition he Was -able to pay, consistently with his
duty to the other creditors; and, considering the nature of his means,
and that he discharged this- demand with the most available means,
it was probable that equal justice could not be done to others.
These prominent and controllihg facts repel the idea of a feigned
insolvency; or that that the appellants were overreached by deceitful
devices.
The evidence tending to prove unfair conduct
on the part of the-appellee, in reference'to his creditors in Baltimore, &c. had little influence on the appellants, as we apprehend; how far it extended, it is
difficult to ascertain. Be this however, as it may, they having received their full proportion of the appellee's property, have no ,right
to resist the prayer for relief, even had the composition been .made
in subservience to an unfair but extraneous influence, growing out of
the transactions with. the other "creditors, who were separately seeking payment. In equity, as at law, fraud and injury must concur to
furnish ground for judicial action; -a mere fraudulent intent, unac-ompanied, by -any injurious act, is not the subject of judicial cognizance. Truly, there are strong grounds of suspicion; but fraud
ought not to be conceived; it must be- proved, and expressly found.
Conard v. Nicoll, 4 Peters, 297; United States v. Arredondo, 6
Peters, 716-

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

197

[Clarke et al. v,Wlife.]

Again, it is contended that the appellants did not receive their
due prppbrtion of the means of payment at the appellee's command,
when the composition was made; because he held a lot with valuable
improvements thereon, in Washington city, in the name of his brother, by a conveyance purporting to be in trust for appellee's three
infant children i which deed, it is insisted, is pretence, covinous and
void, both in law. and fact, in so far as it affects the apellants apa
other creditors: that being thus void, it furnishes almost conqlusive
evidence of an intended fictitious failure, at the. time the goods were
purehased from the appellants, in 1832, and fof wbwich the notes
sought to be injoined were given.,
-Much stress has been'laid upon this transaction, as somewhat of an
independent ground -of defence in the pleadings, and also in the arguments presented for the appellants; we therefore deem it a duty to
bestow upon this particular question, -acorresponding degree of attention.
The facts it rests upon, appear by the trust deed, and the deposition
.of the grantor, John A. Smith.
The lot was formerly the property of Daniel Brent, and was sold
early in 1829, as part-of his property, by John A. Smith, appointed
trustee of B3rent's estate, under an insolvent act; at which sale, William G. W. White became the purchaser, at the price of one thousand five hundred and thirty-two dollars and thirty-four cents, on
a credit of one, two and three years; the lot being sold at auction for
a full price, and the sale notes paid at maturity, no doubt exists of the
appellee's former equity therein. He took possession immediately
after the purchase in 1829, and commenced improving by erecting
buildings thereon; the lot having been vacant at the date of the purchase.
On the 14th of January, 1832, John A. Smith, at the request of
William G. W. White, conveyed the premises to James L. White, in
trust for the three infant children of William G. W. White, in fee.
Between the date of the purchase in 1829, and that of the conveyance iii January, 1832, William G. W. White made improvements on
the premises, to -the value of about three thousand dollars; and added
'to them others, costing twelve or fifteen hundred dollars, after the
date of the deed, and before his failure in December, 1833. The
property, at this date, was worth about six thousand dollars.
Another attendant circumstance is strongly relied on, to showthe
fraudulent intent of the appellee. The deed of the 14th of Jinuary,

SUPREME COURT.
fClarko et al. v. White.]

1832, was not delivered to the clerk tp be recorded; until the 13th
day of July thereafter, and within one day of the expiration of the
time prescribed for such delivery, by the statute of Maryland, which
is six months; and -the notes sought to be surrendered, are 'dated the
2d of July, 1832.
In reference to this conveyance it may be remarked, that by the
common law, it was Valid without registration; and where register
acts require deeds to be recorded, they are valid until the time prescribed by the statute has expired; and if recorded within the time,
are as effectual from the date of execution; as if n6 register act existed. The deed from Smith to James L. White is, therefore, unimpeathable, for the reason that it was delivered for'registration on the
last day of the six months; nor is fraud, predicable of the mere circumstance of np,-registry, as against William G. W White, who was
not the grantee, nor entitled to the possession of the deed. How far
fraud in fact might be inferred from not putting the deed of record,
taken in connection with other circumstances, is a question involving
the rights of third, persons not before the Court; and which we do
not take into consideration, further than to ascertain whether the appellee used the deed as a means of deception in the transaction
before us. If White represented the property as not belonging to
him, and settled with his creditors on this basis, when it did belong
to him; the question then is, can the appellants reverse the decree and
dismiss the bill, and be let in at law upon the property; and this presents another aspect of the effect of the conveyance: as a legal title,
it is not open to imputation; William G. W. White never had any
estate in the premises recognised at law, or subject to execution; the
title passed directly from Smith to James L. White: consequently, if
the deed were pronounced void, the title would be adjudged in
Smith: it is one of those conveyances, where there was clearly a
bona fide grantor, and which is not within the statutes against fraudulent conveyances; as was holden in M'Niel v. Brooks, in I Yerger's
T. Rep. 73; which case followed that of Crisp v. Pratt, in Croke,
548. If the conveyance is open to imputation, it is so at common
law, and because of fraud in fact; and involves substantially the
same inquiries that did the case in this Court, of Sexton v. Wheaton, 8,Wheat.; and Hinde's Lessee v. Longworth, 11 Wheat. We
will not say but that on a proper case being made, and fraud in fact
proved to have been the moving cause of ordering to be vested in
trust the premises in the name of the appellee's brother, that the

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

199

[Clarke et al. V. White.]

latter w jld not be decreed to -lold as trustee for the creditors of
William G. W. White, he having paid the consideration; but then
the property would be treated and applied as a trust fund, and be so
declared in equity, on the sole ground that the transaction was fraudulent in fact. -No case is before us fairly to raise such a question, or
to justify speculations affecting injuriously a title valid at law, and
prima facie good in equity; when those most interested in it are not
before the Court.
There is'another reason why the appellants cannot challenge the
validity of the title made by Smith to James L. White; it is this:
they made the composition with a full and perfect knowledge of the
facts attending the conveyance, and subsequent improvements of the
property; 'then they continued silent, and took the full benefit of
their contract, and cannot now be heard to speak. He who purchases
unsound property, with knowledge of the unsoundness at the time,
cannot iaaintain an action. So if one compounds a debt, or makes
any other contract, with a full knowledge of all the facts, acting at
arm's length upon'his judgment, and fails to guard against loss; he
must abide the consequences. Neither fraud nor mistake can be imputed to such an agreement.
Eighth, it is contended:
The inequality alone in his various compositions 'with his creditors, (all the other circumstances of fraud being out of the question,)
is a fraud, per se, both at law and equity; and sufficient of itself
either at law or equity, to vitiate and set aside each and every of the
compositions, from the lowest to the highest.
If upon failure or insolvency, one creditor goes into a contract of
general composition common to the others, at the same time having
an underhand agreement with the debtor to receive a larger per cent.,
such agreement is fraudulent and void; and cannot be enforced against
the debtor, or any surety to it. 1 Story, 371. The doctrine was
carried so far in the court of exchequer in England, some years since,
as to extend the principle to a case where the creditors made separate
contracts with the debtors, but with an understanding that two shillings and sixpence in the pound was to be paid; and one cf the
creditors got a secret bond, fraudulently intendinig to induce others
to enter into the composition, and the bond was relieved against.
Fowett v. Gee, 3 Anstruther, 910. Although this case, and Spooner
v. Whitsan, 8 Moore, 580, in the common pleas, have been adduced
to the Court, as varying the general principle, on examinationv of

SUPREME COURT.
[Clarke et al. v. White.]

them, we think they proceed upon it; and the case in Anstruther
presses the principle very far against the creditor: however they
might be, no great stress could be laid on them by-the Court; and the
same may be said of Small v. Brackley, 2 Ves. 602, cited by the appellants' counsel.
The rule cutting off underhand agreements in cases of joint and
general compositions, as a fraud upon the other compounding creditors, and because such agreements are subversive of sound morals
and public policy, has no application to a case like the present; where
each creditor acts not only for himself, but in oppo'sition to every
other creditor, all equally relying upon their vigilance to gain a
priority; which, if obtained, each being entitled to have satisfaction,
the payment cannot be questioned. The debtor my prefer one
creditor, pay him fully, and exhaust his whole property, leaving
nothing for others equally meritorious. Yet their case is not remedial: and why may not debts be partially paid in unequal amounts?
If thosewho receive partial payments are willing to give releases, it
is their own matter; and, should a third person interfere, debtor and
creditor could well say to him, you are a stranger, and must stand
aside.
The case of the appellee presented a fair instance of the propriety
of paying some of his debts fully, and others partially. He owed
bank debts, secured by the endorsements of friends, whose kindness
was the only motive to incur tho liability; to relieve whom he did
pay, and ought to have paid, large sums during October and November, 1M3.
The notes passed off to Clagett and Washington were transferred
before maturity, and before the contract of composition took place;
and of course their right was not affected by it. As to them, the
decree dismissing the bill was proper; as it is in all other respects,
and must be affirmed.

Mr. Justice

BALDWIN

dissented.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia; holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is decreed and ordered by
this Court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

