SUPREME COURT.

BEN3AmIN R. LYON

AND

OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. JAMES

AucHINCLOSS AND CoMPANY.
Bail- was entered in the district court of the United States for the eastern district of
Louisiana, for a defendant, against whom a sujtwas' brqught on certain promi9sory notes. The bail having been fixed, proceidingswere afterwards commenced
against them; and a defence was taken by them, on the ground that the plaintiff
had made himself a party to a proceeding under the insolvent laws'of Louisiana,
which the principal had instituted against his creditors, and in which he had failed
to obtain the relief allowed by those laws; a judgment having been given agitinst
'him on his petition in thedistrict court, in-which they were institu .ed, and in the
supreme eburt of Louisiana, to which he carried them by appeal. Held, that if
the.benefit of the insol vent laws had been extended to the principal, before the
hail was fixed by proceedings against the principal, it might have become a question whether they were not discharged under the rule laid down by the Coefrt, in.
the case of Beers v. Haughtqn, 9 Peters, 329. But as the progeedings of the principal for the benefit of those laws, were dismissed on objections of the creditors;
both in the district and supreme court of Louisiana;, the bail can claim no-bxemptioi from the obligations of their bond, on account of thQse proceedings.

IN error to the district court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana,
This case was argued at the January term, 1837, by Mr. Butler,
for the plaintiffs, and by 'Mr Key, for the defendants; and was held:
under advisement until ,this Court; an examination of the rules of

practice established by the district judge of the United States of the
district of Louisiana, having been considered proper. The case is
fully stated inthe opinion of the Court.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is%before this Court, from the district court for the eastern district of Louisiana, on a writ.of error,.
An action was'brought by Auchincloss & Co.., against Nathaniel M.
Riker, on certain proinissory notes, amounting to twenty-five hundred and forty-five dollars. The defendant was arrested on a capias,
and gave bond, with sureties, in the penal sum of three thousand five
hundred dollars; that, should he be cast in the suit, he would pay the
judgment, or surrender himself in execution to the marsbal.
At the May term, 1835,'a judgment, in favour of the- plaintiffs,

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

235

JLy-on et al v. Auchincloss & Co.)

was entered in "he case; and in June following,,a writ of fieri faciEs
was issued on the'judgment, which was ieturnea 1 "no property
found.",

In December, of the same year, a,capias ad satisfaciendum. was
issued, which was returned 'by the marshal, that "the defendant
could not he found."
And afterwards, in February term, 1836, on motion of plaintiffs'
counsel, and on,showing to the court that a ca., sa. had been issuea and
returned "non est inventus," it was ordered that the defendants' bail,
Abraham B. -Walker, Benjamin R. Lyon, and Pierre L. Baucher,
and' Charles Gardiner, eiecutors of P. P. Hall, show cause why judgment should not be entered' against them, &c. And at the same term,
B. R. Lyon, one of the bail, appeared by counsel, and reserving to
himself the benefit of all exceptions to the rule taken in the case,
filed the following pleas.
1. He admits hissignature to the bond sued .upon, but denies that
it creates any obligation, whereupon he files the general issue.
'2. That the said Auchinclpss has made himsalf a party to the insolvent proceedings of the'defendant, Riker, in this state, and is bound
thereby, &c,
On the first of March following, the court having maturely considered the-rule taken on the bail of the defendant, order and adjudge
that the" same be made absolute; and a judgment is entered against
the bail,
,Inthe course of the trial, the'defendants offered in evidence the
record of a suit in the first- district of the state, entitled "N. M. Riker
v.'His'Creditors," to prove that plaintiffs had made themselves parties
to the proceedings in the said suit; to the introduction of which record the-plaintiffs objected, on the following grounds:-r-

1. That if delendant were present, he could not avail himself of
said record; and that his sureties could not.
9..That the. defendants did not offer the record to prove the discharge of Riker by his creditors, under the state insolvent laws; and
that it could'not be offered for an) other purpuse.
. That it was admitteal opposition had" been made in the state
court by the creditors of Riker, which the court sustained; and that'
he appealed to the supreme court, where his 'suit against his creditors*was dismissed. That the record offered, contained only-the proceedings ,which were had in the inferior court; but the court, pverruled the objections, and admitted the record as evidence.

SUPREME COURT.
[Lyon ot al. v. Auchinoloss & Co.]

And the counsel for the bail moved the court thst they be discharged, as it appeared that Auchincloss, by his attorney, made opposition to the proceedings of Rikeragainst his creditors, as shown by
the record in evidence; butthe court overruled the motion: and to
this ruling of the court the defendants excepted.
This proceeding against the bail is in conformity to the Louisiana
practice.
By the record admitted in evidence, it appears that Riker, in May,
1835,, filed his petition in the first judicial district court of Louisiana, representing his embarrassed condition, and his inability to
pay his debts; and he prayed that a meeting of his creditors should
be called, to whom a sLrrender of his property could be made; and
that the relief given by.law to unfortunate debtors, might be extended to him. A schedule of the debts against him, and of his
property, and the debts due to him, was filed; and objection being
made by his creditors, to the relief prayed for, it was refused by
the court. And from this judgment of the-court, an appeal was
taken by Riker, to the supreme court of the state.
The result of this appeal is stated in -the first bill of exceptions, as
admitted by the parties.
It appears, by a certified copy of the rules made by the district
judge, since 1824, that the insolvent laws of Louisiana have been
adopted; but this was not done until subsequent to the rendition of
the judgment against the bail in this case.
This Court have had frequent occasion to consider the act of 26th
May, 1824, which authorizes the district judge of Louisiana to make
rules of practice; but until such rules shall be adopted, it provides
that the modes of proceeding, in civil causes in the district court,
shall be conformable to the laws directing the mode of practice in the
district courts of the state.
If the benefit of the insolvent law had been extended to Riker
before the.bail were fixed, it might have become a question whether
they were not discharged, under the rule laid down by this Court
in the case of Beers and others v. Haughton, 9 Peters, 329. But, as
the proceedings of Riker against his creditors were dismissed, on
their objections, both in the district and supreme court; the bail can
claim no exemption from the obligations of their bond, on account
of these proceedings. A judgment has been obtained against Riker,
which he has not satisfied, nor surrendered himself in ,iischarge of
his bail; and they have taken no steps to discharge themse~yes,

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

237

ILyon et al. v. Auchincloss & Co.1

either by paying the judgment or surrendering their principal.
The judgment against the bail must,, therefore, be affirmed, with
costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the district court of the United States for'the eastern district of
Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here adjudged and ordered by this Court, that the judgment of the said district court in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages, at the rate of six per cent. per
annum.

