JANUARY TERM, 1838.

THE MAYOR, RECORDER, ALDERMYEN, AND COMMON COUNCIL OF
GEORGETOWN,

APPELLANTS V. THE, ALEXANDRIA CANAL, COM-

PAN , AND WILLIAM TURNBULL,

APPEI.LEES.

A bill Was filed by the Corporation of Georgetown, on behalf of themsejveki and the
citizens of Georgetown, against the Alexandria Canal Company; stating that the
company were.constructing an aqueduct across the Potomac river, within the corporate limits of Georgetown; that the Potomac was a public highway; and that
the free use of the river was secured to all persons residing on the border.of the
river, or interested in its navigation, by the compact of 1785, between Virginia andMaryland. The aqueduct, with the works of the Alexandria Canal Company, the
bill stated, obstructed the navigation of the river, and injured the owners of wharf
property on the same; The bill asked an injunction to stay the further proceedihgs of-the defendants, and for other relief. The Alexandria Canal Company, incorporated by.congreas, denied the right of the Corporation of Georgetown to
interfere in the matterj denied that their works are within the corporate limits of
Georgetown; and that the Court has jurisdiction to interfere, or can restrain them
from prosecuting their works under their charter: averring they have not transcended the power granted to them by congress, on the 26th of May, 1830. The circuit
court dismissed the bill; and, on an appeal to the Supreme Court, the decree of
the circuit court was affirmed.
The compact between Virginia and Maryland, in 1785, was made by the two states,
in -their character of states. The- citizens, individually, of both commonwbalths,
were subject to all the 'bbligations, and entitled to all the benefits conferred by that
compact. But the citizens of each, individually, were, in no jhst sense, the parties
"toit. These parties, were! the:'two. states of which they were citizenp. The same
power Which established it, was competent to anndl or to modify it. Virginia and
Maryland, if they had retained the portions of territory which respectively belong.
.ed to them, on the right and left banks of the iotonac; could have so far modified
this compact, as to have agreed to change-any orall of its stipulttions. They
could', by.their joint wIll, have made any im'plovements which 'theythose; either
by canals along the margin of the river or bylbridges or aqueducts across it; or it
any other manner whatsoever. When they ceded to congress the portions of the
territory embracing, the Potomac river within, their limits, whatever the legislatures of Virginia and Maryland could have done by their joint will, after that essioncould'Be done by congress, subject only t4 the limitations imposed by theacts
of cession.
The. act of congress,' which granted the charter to the Alexandria Canal Company,
is in no degree a violation of the compact between the statei of Virginia and Maryland; .or of any of the rights thatthe citizens Of either, or both states, claimed as
bbing, derived from it.
The Potomac river is a inavigable stream, or pari of thpejus publicum; and any ob.
structior to its navigation would, upon the most established: principles, be a pu6 lie
nuisance: A public nuisance being the subject of criminal jurisdiction, the ordlnary and regular proceeding at law, is by indictment or information, by which the

SUPREME COURT.
[City of Georgetown v. The Alexandria Canal Company, &c.]
nuisance may be abated, and the person who caused it may be punished. A court
of equity may take jurisdiction in cases of public nuisance, by an information
filed by the attorney general. If any particular individual shall have sustained
special damage from the erection of it, he 'may maintain a private.action for such
special damage; because, to that extent, he has suffered beyond his portion of in,jury, in common with the community at large.
While it is admitted by all, that the jurisdiction of a court of equity, in cases of
nuisance, is confessedly one of delicacy, and accordingly the instances of its exercise are rare; yet it may be exercised in those cases in which there is iniminent
danger of irreparable mischief, before the tardiness of the law could reach it.
There are cases in which it is competent for some persons to come into a court of
equity as plaintiffs. forthemselves and others, having similar interests. Such is
the familiar example of what is called a creditors' bill. But, in all these cases,
5
the parties have an interest in the subject matter, which enables them .o sue; and
the others are treated as a kind of plaintiffs with those named, although they
themselves are not named.

ON appeal from the circuit court of the United States, br the county
of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
The appellants filed their bill in the court below, in July, 1836,
stating, in substance, that they were deeply interested in the trade'and
navigation of the Potomac river, a common highway; the unobstructed use of which is secured by a compact in 1786, between the states
of Virginia and Maryland. That the appellees, under the alleged
authority of an act of congress of the 26th of May, 1830, are engaged
at Georgetown, and within its corporate limits, in constructing an
aqueduct over the said river. That the said aqueduct is designed to
rest on massive stone piers, having their foundation on the solid rock
at the bottom of said river. That to build said piers coffer dams are
used around the site of them, with a doube row of piling, the inner
and outer rows of piling twelve or thirteen feet apart. That the appellees have finished one pier. That in building it, they filled up the
space between the inner and outer rows of piling with clay and earth.
The appellants expressed fears, that the clay so used, would injure
the harbour of the town and channel of the river; but they were assured by' the appellees that the clay so used, on completing the pier,
should be taken away, and not permitted to be swept into thet harbour and river. The bill further states, that, in the construction of
the second pier, then in progress, the appellees not only used clay between said rows of piling, but threw large masses of clay and earth
into the open river, outside the outer row of piles; that the current
of said"iver and freshets, to which it was subject, had swept and

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

93

[City of Georgetown v. The Alexandria Canal Company, &c.]

would sweep said clay and earth into the channel and harbour; and
bad materially injured and w(uld injure said channel and harbour.
That the appellants had expended large sums of money, (in part granted to them by congress,) in deepening the channel of the river below
the town; and that the depth of water had been materially lessened,
caused in part, and materially, by the said works of the appellees.
The bill further -states, that the appellants, before filing their bill
remonstrated against the use of said clay and earth in the open river,
outside the dams, to the officer in charge of the'work; but he asserted
his right so to use it, and would use it when the safety of his works
in his judgment, required; and was so instructed by his principals.
The bill further stated that the appellants had reason to believe, and
did believe, that the said operation would be renewed, in the construction of the six or more remaining piers of the aqueduct, if not arrested by the order of the court; to the manifest injury, if not ruin, ot
their harbour and channel. The bill further averred that the appellees
were without sufficient means to complete the work, and called for a
statement of their funds. The bill also av /rred the charter of the
appellees, of May, 1830, to be unconstitutional, because it obstructed
naviggtion. It prayed a perpetual injunction against the appellees
in the use of clay and earth, inside or outside the dams; and against
the progress of the work so conducted, in which they were engaged;
and for further relief, &c. &c.
The answer denied the right of the appellants to sue, and the jurisdiction of the court, to enjoin for a-public nuisance; and to give the
T'elief prayed: denied'that there was any injury, or damage; and if
any, that it was within the corporate limits of Georgetown; and averred the validity of the act of congress, of 26th May, 1830, and their
right to proceed under it. The 'nswer avers that the said charter
was granted with the knowledge and acquiescence of Georgetown;
that a large amount of money had been obtained and expended on the
work; and that appellees confidently believed, an ample amount
had been, and would be furnished to complete it. They further averred, that they had employed sllful and scientific engineers; that
they had adopted the most approved plan, (as set forth, in the
bill;) and that if any injury had occurred, or should occur to the
river or harbour of Georgetown, which they denied, it was the necessary and inevitable result of the work itself. The answer admits,
that, in building the second pier, in'
consequence of a freshet in June,
1836, alleged to have swept off the original depdsite at the bottom

SUPREME COURT.
[City of Georgetown v. ThA Alexandria Canal Company, &c.]

of the river round the pier, and thereby looseningthe outer piles of
the dam, they did throw in clay outside the outer.rows. of piles, to
replace said .deposite; that it was necessary to do so, and. the only
practicable -means t6- save their work: that it was an emergency not
likely again to arise; and that it did not and could not produce the
hicshiefs alleged5 and apprehended by the complainants. To so much
of the. bill as averred the financial inability of appellees: to complete
the work, and called for a development of their resources, they demurred. Proof was taken on both sides, and filed with the bill and
answer; the general replication filed, ard th cause by consentsef for
final hemring. The court below refused to grant the injunction, and
thd relief prayed, and dismissed the bill: and the appellants thereupon appealed to this Court.
The case .was argued- by Mr. Key, for the appellants; and by
Coxe and Mr. Jones, for the appellees.
For the appellants, it was contended: 1. That the court erred in
refusing-to grant the relief prayed for.
'2. Beca;use, a wanton and irreparable injury to the navigation e,
the river, results from the manner of the defendants' construction of
their work.
3. Because, by the compact between Maryland and Virginia, of
1786,.and by t6e act of cession, of. 1791; the free navigation of the
river Potomac, ard the rights of 'the citizens of Maryland and Virginia, and of the district, were secured.
4.. If the charter authorizes the erection, of works wltich destroy'
the rights and property of the .coriplainantsi it is void, as against the
constitution of the United States; no compensation being provded
for such injuries by the charter.
Mr. Justice BAR13OUR delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from a ducree of the circuit tourt of 'the United
States for the county of Washington, in the District-of Columbia,
dismissing the appellants' bill.
The appellants filed their bill in the court below, in behalf of
themselves and the citizens of Georgetown, against the appellees';
containing various allegation, the material parts oi which, are substantially. these: That the appellees, who were defendants in the
court below, had been, and then were engaged in constructing an

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

95

[City of Geqrgetown v. The Alexanaria Canal Company, &c,]

aqueduct over the Potomac river, at Georgetown, within its corporate limits, immediately above, and west of the principal public
and private wharves of the town; that the Potomac rivfer, above
and below the aqueduct, continuously: outward to the sea, was a
public navigable highway; that the free use of that river was
secured to all the people, residing on its borders pr interested in its
navigation, by a compact between the states of Virginia and Maryland, in tle year 1785; that, Georgetown derived its chief support
and prosperity from. the trade of the Potomac; that large sums of
money had been expended by the complainants, at the wharves of
the town, in deepening the water on the bar across the main channel,
immediately below the town, and north and west of the long. bridge
across the Potomac; that the defendants had consteu'cted one massive
stone pier, and were about to construct others; that by the use of clay
and earth thrown in, to make eclose certain coffer dams, used by the
defendants in the construction of the piers, the harbour has been injured, ,and the deltli of water in the cut or channel through the bar
below the town, has been diminished already, and that they apprehend serious injuryin futurefiom the same causes; that by the construction of, their piers. of stone, and in such a-way, as greatly to increase the force of the current, other earth and mud have been, and
will be washed down by the vdlbeity of the curr eht, so as to injure
the wharves and harbour of the town, and impair the navigation of
the river. The bill charges, that the aqueduct can be constructed
without' the'use of clay and earth, from which so much injury is
apprehended. It proceeds to state, in minute detail, the nature and
character of the injury apprehended to the harbour, wharves, and
naVigation; and concludes with a prayer-fbr an injunction prohibiting
the defendantsfrom furtherd~positing earth and clay in the Potomac
river, outside, or inside their coffer dams, or otherwise, to the injury
of the navigation of the-river and the harbour of Georgetown; and
with a prayer also for general relief.
The defendants answered, denying that the complainants, the Corporation of Georgetown, had any right, title, or interest in the waters
of the Potomac river, which they aver to be a public navigable river,
and a common highway; they deny that the works, in the construction of which they are engaged, are within the corporate limits
of Georgetown; they deny the right of the Corporation of George.
town, to file the bill in behalf of the citizens of the town; they deny
the jurisdiction of a court of equity, over nuisatices in public rivers

SUPREME COURT.
[City of Georgetown v. The Alexandria Canal Company, &e.]

and highways; and also its power to enjoin them from.the prosecution of the works in which t.hey are engaged, under their charter;
they insist, that congress had full power to grant to them the charter
of incorporation, and to authorize the construction of the works in
which they are engaged. They aver that they have not transcended
the power conferred by their charter, which was granted to them by
an act .of congress, passed on the 26th of May, 1830; which they
exhibit as part of their answer. They then proceed to answer the
bill at large upon its merits.
It is. unnecessary to state the evidence inthe case; because our
opinion is f6unded upon considerations, independent of the facts
which that evidence was intended to prove.
We shall forbear also from any expression of opinion upon some
of the topics discussed at the bar; because, whilst they are important
in their character, they have no bearing upon the principles 0nwhich
our judgment proceeds.
We will now very briefly state them, and the conclusions which
necessarily flow from them. The compact made in the year 1785,
between Virginia and Maryland, was made by the two states, in their
character as states. The citizens, individually, of both commonwealths, were subject to all the obligations imposed, and entitled to
all the benefits conferred by that compact. But the citizens as such,
individually, were in no just sense the parties to it: those parties were
the two states; of which they were citizens. The same power which
established it, was competent either to annul or to modify it. Virginia arid Maryland, then, if they had retained the portions of territory respectively belonging to them on the right -nd left 'banks of
the Potomac; could have so far modified this compact as to have
agreed to change any or' all of its stipulations. They could, by their
joint will, have made any impi ovement which they chose5 either by
canals al6g the margin of the river, or by bridges or aqueducts
across it, or in-any other manner whatsoever
When they ceded to congress the portions of.their territory, embracing the Potomac river, within their limits, whatq6ever the legislatures of Virginia and Maryland could have done by their joint will,
after that. cession could be done by congress; subject only to the
limitations imposed by the acts of cession.
We are satisfied, then, that the act of congress, which granted the
charter to the Alexandria Canal Company, is in no degree a violation
of the compact between the states of Virginia and Maryland, or of

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

97

[City of Georgeto in v. The Alexandria Canal Company, &c]

any rights that the citizens of either, or both states, claimed as being
derived from it.
Congress then, having the power, authorized the Alexandria Canal
Company "to cut canals, erect dams, open, feeders, construct locks,
and perform such other works, as they shall judge necessary and expedient, for completing a canal, from the termination or 'other point
on the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, to such place in the town of
Alexandria, as the board of directors shall appoint." 'Now, as one of
its terminii was authorized to be, either the termination or some
other point on the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, and the.other some
place in the town of Alexandria; .and' s the Potomac lies betveen
these terminii; the authority to construct an aqueduct was granted"
ex necessitate. But, if certainty required-to be made more certain,
this is done by the language of the ninth and fourteenth sections
of the act of May 26th; 1830, granting the charter; in both of which
the term aqueducts is used, in such :a manner as inconte'stably to'
prove, that congress considered the power to construct them as given
by the charter.
If, then, as we.have said, congress had. power to authorize the
construction of an aqueduct across the Potomac; if so having the
power, they have given to the Alexandria' Ca nal Company the
authority to construct it; and if, in the construction, that company
has not exceeded the authority given them, ither in the thing done,
or in the manner of doing it, §o as to proluce the least injury or
inconvenience practicable, consistently with the execution of the
work; it would be difficult, as a legal proposition, to predicate of
such a work,that it was unlawful, or that it was a nuisance; so as to
justify a court in interfering to prevent its progress towards completion.
It is unnecessary, however, to prosecute this inquiry, because
there is a view of this subject which we think-decisive of the case.
Were it even admitted that the Canal Company had exceeded the
authority under which they are acting, nevertheless, as the Potomac
river is a navigable stream, a part of the jus publicum, any obstruction to its navigation would, upon the most established principles, be
what is declared by law to be a public nuisance. A public nuisance
being the subject of criminal jurisdiction, the ordirnary and regular
proceeding at law is by indictment or information, by which the
nuisan~ce may be abated; and the person who caused it may be
punished. If any particular individual shall have sustained special
VOL. XII.-N

SUPREME COURT,
[City of Georgetown v. The Alexandria Canal Company, &c.]

damage from the erection: of it, he may maintain a private action for
such special'damage; because to that extent he has sufflred beyond
his portion of injury, in common with the community at large. 5th,
Iac. Abridg..Nuisance, B. p. 51. 2d Lord Raym. 1163.
Besides this remedy at law, it is now settled, that a court.of equity
may take jurisdiction in cases of public nuisance, by an information
filed by the attorney general. This jurisdiction seems to have been
acted 'on with reat caution and hesitancy. Thus, it is said by the,
Chancellor, in iSt Vesey, 217, that the instances of the interposisition of the court were confined. and rare. He referred, as to
the principal authority on the subject, to what had Leen done in the
cour't of exchequer, upon the discussion of the right of the, attorney
general by some species of information, to seek on the equitable
side of the court,;relief as to nuisance, and preventive relief.
Chancellor Kent in 2d John. Chan. 382, remarks, that the equity
jurisdiction, in cases of public nuisance, in the only cases in which it
had been exercised, that i*, in cases of encroachment on the king's
soil, had lain dormant for a century and a half;' that is, from Charles
I. down to the year 1795.
Yet the jurisdiction has been finally sustained; upon the principle
that equity can gie more adequate 'and complete relief, than can be
obtained at law. Whilst, therefore, it is admitted by all that it is
confessedly one of d'licacy; and 'accordingly, the instartices of its
exercise are rare, yet it may be exercised in those cases ii which
there is imminent danger of irreparable mischief before the tardiness
of the law could reach it.
The court of'equity, also, pursuing the analogy of the law, that a
,party may maintain a private action for special damage, even in
case of a public nuisance, will now take jurisdiction in case of apublic nui-ance, at the instance of a private person; where he is in
imminent danger of suffering a special injury, for which, under the
circumstances of the case, the law would not afford an adequate
remedy. Amongst other cases, this doctrine is laid down in the
case of Crowder v. Tinkler, 19 Vesey, 616. In that 'case, p. 622,
the chancellor says, "Upon the question of jurisdiction, if the subject was represented as a mere public nuisance, I could not interfere
in this case, as the attorney general is not a party; and if he was a
party upon the dicta, unless it was clearly a public nuisance generally, the court would not interpose by injunction Until it-had been
tried at law. The complaint is, theiefore. to be considered as of not

JANUARY TERM, 1838.

99

,tCity of Georgetown v. The Alexandria Canal Company, &c.]

a public nuisance simply; but what, being so in its nature, is atended
with extreme probability of irreparable injury to the property ,of the
plaintiffs, including, also, danger to their existence; and. on such a
case, clearly established, I do not hesitate to say an injunction would
be: granted."
The principle is Also distinctly asserted: and acted on by Chancellor Kent, in the case of Corning and others v. Lowerre, :6 John.
Chan. 439. In that case1 ,a bill was filed 'fo an injunction to restrain
the defendant from obstructing Vestry street, in the city of' New
York, and averring that be wa building a house upon,that street, to
the great injury of the plaintiffs, as owners of lots on and adjoining
that' street' and that Vestry street. had been laid out, regulated and
pave'd, for about twenty years.
The injunction was granted: the Chancellor said, that here was: a
special grievance to the plaintiffs, affecting the enjoyment of their
property and the value of it. The obstruction was not only a
common or ublic nuisance, 'but Worked, a
special injury to the
plaintiffs.
The principle then, is, that in case of a public nuisance, where a
bill is filed by a private person, asking for relief by way of preVention, the plaintiff cannot maintain a stand in a'court of equity; unless
he avers a- j proves some special injury.
With this principle as our guide, let us now examine the pretensions of the appellants in this case. Who are they? Not,, indee,, a
private person, but a corporation. They profess to come into court
for themselves, and for the citizens of Georgetown. Now, it is not
even pretended that, in their character of,a corporation only, they
have any power or authority given to them by t6eir charter; to take
care of, protect, and vindicate, in a court of justice, the, rights of' the
citizens ofr the town, in the enjoyment of their property, or in removing or preventing any annoyance to it. Nor does such a power
attach to them in their corporate character, upon any principle, of the
law in 'relation to corporations. The complainants, then, must, as
in the case'f private persons, to. maintain their position in a court
of equity for relief against a public nuisance, have averred and
proved, that they were the owners of property liable to be affected
by the nuisance, and that, in point of fact, were so affected, so as that
they thereby bad suffered a special damage. Now, there is no such
averment in this bill The appellants seem to have proceeded on
the idea, that it. appertained 'to them, as the corporate authority in

SUPREME COURT.
-[City of Georgetown v. The Alexandria Canal Company,, &c.]

Georgetown, to take care of and protect the interests of the citizens.
In this idea we think they were in error; and that they cannot, upon
any principle of law, be recognised as parties competent in court to
represent the interests of the citizens of Georgetown. Nor is the
difficulty obviated by associating with them the citizens of Georgetown,:as persons in whose behalf they sue. There are indeed cases,
in which it is competent for some persons to come into a court of
equity, as plaintiffs for themselves and others, having similar interests: such is the familiar example of what is called a creditors"
bill. But in that, and all other cases of a like kind, the persons, who
by name, bring the suit, and constitute the parties on the record, have
themselves an interest in the subject matter, which enables them to
sue, and the others are treated as a kind of co-plaintiffs with those
named, although they themselves are not named; but in this case, it
has been already said, that the appellants have no such interest as
enables them to sue in their own name, and consequently the whole
analogy failS. Moreover, if the citizens of Georgetown were even
parties, on the record; the objection would equally lie against them,
unless they could show a special damage as a ground to stand upon.
With these views, we are of opinion that the decree of the court
below, dismissing the appellants' bill, is correct; it is therefore affirmed, with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
fr6m the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by
counsel; on consideration whereof, it isdecreed and ordered by this
Court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

