LANCASTER v. McCARTY.
423

Syllabus.

removing buildings and improvements, or the implied
obligation of the lessee or its assigns in regard thereto,
the petition fails to show that as between the claimants
and the United States there existed any relatiofiship of
landlord and tenant under the lease from which an
agreement to pay for the property can be implied.
2. The petition shows no ground of recovery on an
implied agreement upon the part of the Government to
pay the claimants for property taken for public use. No
recognition of the plaintiffs' title is alleged in the petition. On the contrary the facts shown plainly indicate
that the buildings and improvements were removed by
the Government as its own property under the claim of
right. Unider these circumstances no agreement to pay
for them can be implied. Whether the Government's
claim was well or ill founded, is immaterial. If it was
unfounded, and the claimants' property rights violatet,
the cause of action therefor would be one sounding in
tort, for which the Tucker Act affords no remedy. Klebe
States, 263 U. S. 188, 191, and cases cited.
v. The
United
demurrer was rightly sustained, and
the judgment is
Affirmed.
LANCASTER ET AL., RECEIVERS OF THE TEXAS
& PACIFIC -RAILWAY, v. McCARTY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE SECONDSUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 148.

Submitted December 11, 1924.-Decided March 9, 1925.

The second Cummins Anendment, (August 9, 1916, c. 301, 39 Stat.
441,) authorizing carriers to limit liability upon property received
-for transportation to the value declared in writing by the shipper,
where the rates are based on such value pursuant to authority
from the Interstate Commerce Comrission;--held applicable, and
controlling the state law, in respect of a claim for damage to goods

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

shipped intrastate between two points in Texas subject to tariff and
classification adopted by the carrier pursuant to an order of the
Commission reqiiiring the carrier to remove discrimination against
interstate commerce resulting from lower intrastate rates. Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342. P. 430.
248 S. W. 816, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals of
Texas sustaining a, recovery from the receivers of the
Railway for damages to goods shipped.
Mr. T. D. Gresham and Mr. F. H. Prendergast for

plaintiffs in error, submitted.
No brief filed for the defendants in error.
MR. CHrEF JUSTICE TAlrr delivered the opinion of the

Court.
the County Court of
This was a suit for damages in"
Eastland County, Texas, by the defendants in error, partners as the Cisco Furniture Company, to recover from
the-plaintiffs in error, the Receivers of the Texas & Pacific
Railway, $198 for injury to two rugs and to three chairs
shipped by the Furniture Company from Fort Worth,
Texas, over the Railway to Cisco, Texas, and $20- for attorney's fees exacted by a state statute for the delay of
the Railway in allowing and paying the claim. The real
issue here is whether the amount of the damages for the
admitted injury should be measured by the statutory laiv
of Texas or by the regulations of the Interstate Commerce
Commission with respect to the classification of traffic and
fixing of rates, as directed by it in accordance with the
decree by the Commerce Court of the United States, affirmed by this Court in Houston & Texas Railway Co. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 342, known as the iShreveport
Case. The damage to the chairs is not involved. The
question arises only as to the two, rugs. The transporta-

LANCASTER v. McCARTY.
427

Opinion of the Court.

tion began at Fort Worth, Texas, and ended at Cisco,
Texas. It was carried on under a bill of lading according to the forms of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
which provided that the rates should be 70 cents per 100
pounds on rugs classified as not exceeding in value $75.
The bill of lading was stamped with the following notation: "Valuation on rugs less than $75 per 100 pounds."
The rugs in the transit were much damaged by acid and
were said to be worth but $5 apiece after the damage.,
The shippers claim that their value when shipped was
$95 apiece, Under the valuation noted on the bill of
lading, their value could not have exceeded $60 because
each rug weighed 40 pounds.
The Texas Court of Civil Appeals, which was the highest court to which the case could be brought (because the
Supreme Court of Texas held that it had-no jurisdiction),
relied uLpon Article 708 of the Revised Statutes of Texas,
which provides that railroad companies within the State
shall not limit or restrict their liability, as it existed at
common law, by any general or special notice, or by inserting exceptions in the bill of lading, or by memorandum
given upon the receipt of the goods for transportation, or
in any other manner, and that any such .special agreement
shall be invalid. These rugs were shipped March 13, 1920,
after the second Cummins Amendment to the Interstate
Commerce Act (August 9, 1916, 39 Stat. 441, c. 301),
which permits to carriers a limitation of liability upon
property received for transportation concerning which the
carrier shall have been authorized by order of the Interstate Commerce Commission to establish and maintain
rates dependent upon the yalue declared in writing by the
shipper, or agreed upon in writing as the release value
of the property. In such a case, such declaration or
agreement shall-have no other effect than to limit liability
and recovery to an amount not exceeding the valueso declared or released.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

The writ of error is brought here under ยง 237 of the
Judicial Code, on the ground that this order of the Interstate Commerce Commission fixing the classification and
rates thereunder is an authority exercised under the
United States which by the contention of the shippers
was drawn in question, and its validity denied by the
state court. Champion Lumber Company v. Fisher,227
U. S. 445, 451. It is not disputed, therefore, that, if the
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission and the
Western Classification No. 56 apply, the judgment of the
Court of Civil Appeals of Texas should be reversed; if
Article 708 R. S. of Texas applies, the judgment should
be affirmed.
The Shreveport Case began by an application of railway carriers running west from Shreveport across the
,Texas State line to Houston and Dallas, to set aside an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, on the
ground that it exceeded its authority. The order was
made in a proceeding initiated by the Railroad Commission of Louisiana before the Commission. The complaint
in that proceeding was that the carriers maintained unreasonable rates from Shreveport, Louisiana. to various
points in Texas, and that the carriers, in the adjustment
of their rates over their respective lines, discriminated in
favor of traffic within the State of Texas and against
similar traffic between Shreveport and Texas points; that
Shreveport competed' in business with Houston and Dallas, and that the rates from Dallas and Houston east to
intermediate points in Texas were much less, according to
distance, than from Shreveport westward to the same
points, with conditions similar in all respects. The difference was substantial, and injuriously affected the commerce of Shreveport. The Commission found that interstate rates out of Shreveport to main Texas points were
unreasonable, and it fixed maximum rates for that traffic.
It also found that the rates fron Houston and Dallas

LANCASTER v. McCARTY.
42i

,

431

Opinion of the Court.

eastward to Texas points were so low as to be a discrimination and an undue and unlawful preference against
Shreveport and against its interstate commerce. Acc6rdingly, the carriers were directed to desist from charging
higher rates from Shreveport to Dallas and Houston, respectively, and intermediate points, than were contemporaneously charged for the same carriage from Dallas
and Houston to Shreveport for equal distances. The
Commerce Court sustained the order, and so did this
Court, leaving it to the Railroad Company to bring
about the equality required either by decreasing the rates
from Shreveport to the Texas points between that city
and Dallas and Houston, or by increasing the .intrastate
rates from Houston and Dallas eastward to the Texas
points between those cities and Shreveport. This Western Classification, which the carrier applied in this case,
was adopted by the railroads under the authority of the
Interstate Commerce Commission thus sustained in the
Shreveport Case. That authority rested on the supremacy of federal authority in respect to interstate commerce.
The intrastate rates fixed by the Texas State Railway
Commission from Houston and Dallas eastward to Texas
points were a discrimination against the interstate traffic
between Shreveport and those same points; and, therefore, it was held to be within the power of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, in preventing such unlawful discrimination under the Interstate Commerce Act, to direct
the railways to ignore the Texas Commission rates and to
establish rates, not unduly discriminating against interstate commerce, in intrastate traffic. Such an order, of
course, included classification as well as rates. The two
are so bound together in the regulation of interstate commerce that the effect of both .must be reasonable and
without undue discrimination. The Interstate Commerce Commission, therefore, had full authority to issue
this order for the adoption of the Western Classification

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

for intrastate points between Houston and Cisco, both in
Texas. The conflict between the Revised Statutes of
Texas and the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission can only be settled by recognition of the supremacy
of the federal authority. It is llain from the agreed statements of facts that the only recovery which could be had
under the Western Classification in this case was less
than $60. The limitation of liability Was in accordance
with the second Cummins Amendment, was properly
agreed to, and was binding upon the shipper as well as the
carrier.
The judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals must be
reveised and the cause remanded for further*proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
BROOKS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR.
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.

No. 286. Argued January 30, 1925.-Decided March 9, 1925.
1. The Act puhishing the transportation of stolen motor vehicles in
interstate or foreign commerce is within the power of Congress.
P. 436.
2. The third section of this act .punishes anyone who transports or
causes to be transported, in interstate or foreign commerce, a
motor vehicle, knowing it to have been stolen, and the fourth
section punishes the acts of receiving, storing, concealing, disposing
of,. etc., "any motor vehicle, moving as, or which is a part of, or
which constitutes interstate or foreign commerce, knowing the
same to have been stolen." Held, that ยง 4 is constitutional, since
its purpose is merely to make more effective the regulation of ยง 3
and it applies onlywhere the-act of storing, concealing, etc., is a
final step in the 6se of interstate (or foreign) transportation to
promote the scheme of unlawfully disposing of the.stolen vehicle
and of withholding it from its owner. P. 439.
3. When the constitutional question upon which a writ of error from
this court to thd District Court was'founded is decided against

