UNITED STATES v. LORILLARD -CO.

-471

Counsel for Parties.

467

Nor is there anything to support this conclusion in
Schall v. Camors, 251 U. S. 239, which dealt solely with
unliquidated claims arising in tort, not previously reduced
to judgment, and held merely that such unliquidated
claims, not being incdudedin the enumeration of provable debts under § 63a, could not be liquidated and proven
under the provisions of § 63b."
The decrees of the District Court and of the Circuit
Court of Appeal are reversed, and the cause is remanded
to the District. Court for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
UNITED STATES v. P. LORILLARD COVIPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 319.

Argued March 13, 1925.-Decided March 23, 1925.

By Rev. Stats. § 3386, as amended, a drawback on tobacco, etc.,

- subsequently

exported, on which the tax has been paid by affixizg stamps before removal from the factory, is allowed "equal in
amount to the value of the stamps found to have been so affixed."
Held applicable to an additional tax on cigarettes imposed by the Act
of February 24, 1919, payment of which would have been treated
in practice hs evidenced by the stamps already on the goods, if they
had not been removed, but which, in view of their removal, took
the form of a "floor tax." C. 18, Title VII, §§ 700, 702, 40 Stat.
1057, 1116. P. 473.
58 Ct. Cis. 541, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Court of Claims allow-

ing recovery, by way of drawback, of taxes on cigarettes,
which were exported.
Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, for the United States.. Mr: Solicitor General
Beck, Mr. Assistant Attorney General Lovett, Mr. Nelson
T. Hartson,Solicitor of Internal Revenue, and Mr. Robert
H. Littleton, were on the brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Mr. M. C. Elliott, with whom 111r. W. B. Bell and Mr.
Forest Hyde were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit brought by the P. Lorillard Company to
recover by way of drawback a tax paid by it upon 153,050,000 cigarettes of its manufacture exported after the
tax had been paid. The Company recovered in the
Court of Claims and the United States appeals. The
total was $3 a thousand and'was collected under successive Acts as follows. A tax of $1.25 per thousand was
imposed by Rev. Sts. § 3394 and was paid in the usual
way by stamps for the amount, bought and attached to
the original packages before they were removed from the
factory. . An additional tax of 80 cents per thousand was
imposed by the Act of October 3, 1917, c. 63, § 400; 40
St. 300, 312. The cigarettes had not been removed, and
the Company paid the additional tax but without attachinig new stamps, the practice being to treat the payment
as so much added to the cost of the old ones. Then the
Act-of February 24, 1919, c. 18, Title VII, § 700; 40 St.
1057,' 1116, in lieu of the internal-revenue taxes then imposed, raised the tax to $3 per thousand to be paid as
bef'ore by attaching and cancelling stamps. By § 702,
if the goods had been removed from the factory and
were held for sale on .the day after the Acf, a 'floor tax'
equal to the difference between the sum already paid and
$3 was to be paid. These goods had been removed and
the Company, having previously paid $2.05, paid the
additional 95 cents. Between August 29 and November
21, 1919, these cigarettes were exported. By Rev. Sts.
§ 3386, amended, Act of March 1, 1879, c. 125, §16; 20
Stat. 347, a drawback on tobacco, &c., on which- the tax
has been paid by suitable stamps, &c., affixed before removal, is allowed. 'equal in amount to the value of the

UNITED STATES v. LORILLARD CO.
471

473

Opinion of the Court.

stamps found to have been so affixed.' The Commissioner of Internal Revenue allowed the claim for the
$2.05 paid under the two earlier Acts, but rejected that
for the 95 cents paid under th~e last. The Court of
Claims gave the Company judgment for $145,397.50, the
amount of the rejected claim.
The argument for the Government stands on a strict
adhesion to the letter of the statute giving the drawback and a narrow interpretation of even the letter of
the Act. It contends that only the value of the stamps
attached before removal from the factory can be recovered, and, while.admittirg that the second payment
made after the stamps had been bought and attached
can be taken as adding to their value, it denies that the
payment of what the statute calls a floor tax, paid after
removal of the goods, can be added in a similar way.
But we are of opinion that the Court of Claims was
right. When it is considered that at the time the Act
allowing the drawback was passed the tax was collected
wholly by stamps, it seems evident that Congress meant
to carry the policy of the Constitution against taxing
exports beyond its strict requirement and to let the event
decide about the tax. In this case if the cigarettes still
had been in tte factory, the additional payment would
have been treated as made for the stamps already on,
if that fiction was necessary to secure' the rebate. We
see no insuperable difficulty in adopting the same device
for a payment of the same amount under the same Act
by the same people for the same goods, after they had
left the factory. And if the payment should be made
by a third person who had purchased from the manufacturer it seems to us that if necessary he also might
be taken to stand in the manufacturer's shoes, and still
to make the payment on account of the stamps. Our
opinion perhaps.gets some confirmation from § 1310(c)

OCTOBER TERM. 1924.
Slatemeiit of the Cas'c.

267 U.S.

of the Act of 1919, but we rest it upon what we have
said.
A protest was not necessary at the time of payment
because, apart from other reasons, at that time the event
creating the right to the drawback had not come to pass.
Judgment.affirmed.

WELLS, ADMINISTRATRIX OF THE ESTATE OF
CHARLES E. WELLS, DECEASED, v. BODKIN
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 144. Argued March 6, 1925.--Decided April 13, 1925.
The Act of May 14, 1880, confers a preference right of entry upon

the successful contestant of a homestead claim and provides that,
should the person who initiated a contest die "before the final
termination of the same ", the contest shall not abate, but that his
heirs, who are citizens of the United States, may continue the
prosecution and shall be entitled to the same rights under the act
that the contestant would have if his death had not occurred.

Held:
1. That, where the contestee relinquished and the contestant made
her homestead application within the time allowed and later died,
her heirs were entitled, in prosecuting the application, to preference

over a stranger to the contest whose homestead application was
made on the same day as the decedent's. P. 476.
'2. The fact that an heir applying had himself made a homestead
entrX in his own right was no obstacle, when he relinquished it
under permission of the Secretary of the Interior for the purpose

of availing himself of the inherited right of entry. P. 478.
289 Fed. 245 affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court dismissing
a bill whereby the appellant's decedent sought to have

