CANNON MFG. CO. v. CUDAHY CO.
330

Statement of the Case.

sion"v. Eastern Texas 1?. R. Co., 264 U. S. 79, 85.

This
is true even where the system as a whole fails to earn a
fair return upon the .value of the property. So fai as
appears, this company is at liberty to surrender its franchise and discontinue operations throughout the city. It
cannot, in the absence of contract, be compelled to continue to operate its system at a loss. Brooks-Scanlon.Co.
v. Rai1roadCommission of Louisiana,251 U. S. 396. But
the Constitution does not confer upon the company the
right to continue to enjoy the franchise or indeterminate
permit and escape from the burdens incident to its use.
__
Affirmed.
CANNON MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
CUDAHY PACKING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 255.

Argued January 28, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.

1. Defendant, a Maine corporation, marketed its products in North
Carolina through a subsidiary, an Alabama corporation which it
completely dominated through stock ownership and otherwise, but
a distinct corporate entity which did not act as the defendant's

agent but bought the defendant's goods and sold them to dealers
to be shipped directly from the defendant. Held,
(a) That the defendant corporation did not thereby do business
in North Carolina so as to be present there and suable in the

federal court. P. 334.
(b) That the concentration of the Alabama corporation's stock in
the defendant's single ownership and the legal consequences of this

under the Alabama law did not have the effect of rendering its
business in North Carolina the business of the defendant for purposes of jurisdiction. P. 337.
292 Fed. 169, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment dismissing an action on con-

tract for want of jisdiction over the defendant corporation.

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Mr. C. W. Tilett,Jr., with whom Mr. E. T. Cansler and
Mr. C. W. Tillett were on the brief, for plaintiff in .error.
Mr. J. Harry Covington, with whom Mr. Thomas
Creigh, Mr. R. B. Webster, Mr. Frank M. Shannonhouse,
and Mr. John M. Robinson were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTIcE

BRmims delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Cannon Manufacturing Company, a North Carolina
corporation, brought, in a court of that State, this action
against Cudahy Packing Company, a Maine corporation,
for breach of a contract to purchase cotton sheeting for
use in packing meat. The defendant appeared specially
for the purpose of filing a petition for removal to the
federal court for western North Carolina; and the order
of removal issued. In that court the defendant, appearing specially, moved that the summons be set aside and
the action dismissed for lack of jurisdiction. The ground
of the motion was that the defendant was not doing business within the State and had not been served with
process. The only service made was, as the sheriff's return recites, the delivery of a copy of the "summons and
complaint to Cudahy Packing Company of Alabama,
agent of defendant, Frank H. Ross, to whom papers were
delivered, being process agent of Cudahy Company of
Alabama." The District Court, concluding upon the evidence that the defendant was not present in North Caroline, entered a final judgment dismissing the action. 292
Fed. 169. The case is here under § 238 of the Judicial
Code, the question of jurisdiction 'having been duly
certified.
The main question for decision is whether, at the time
of the service of process, defendant was doing business
within the State in such a manner and to such an extent

CANNON MFG. CO. v. CUDAHY CO.
338

335

Opinion of the Court.

as to warrant the inference that it was present there.
Ba k of America v. Whitney Central National Bank, 261
U. S. 171. In order to show. that it was, the plaintiff
undertook to establish identity pro hac vice between the
defendant and the Alabama corporation. The Alabama
corporation, which has an office in North Carolina, is the
instrumentality. employed to market Cudahy products
within the State; but it does not do so as defendant's
agent. It buys from the defendant and sells to dealers.
In fulfilment of such contracts to sell, goods packed by
the defendant in Iowa are shipped direct to dealers; and
from them the Alabama corporation collects the purchase
price. Through ownership of the entire capital stock and
otherwise, the defendant dominates the Alabama corporation, immediately and completely; and exerts its control
both commercially and financially in substantially the
same way, and mainly through the same individuals, as
it does over those selling branches or departments of its
business not separately, incorporated which are established
to market the Cudahy products in other States. The
existence of the Alabama company as a distinct corporate
entity is, however, in all respects observed. Its books are
kept separate. All transactions between the two corporations are represented by appropriate entries in their
respective books in the same way as if the two were
wholly independent corporations. This corporate separation from the general Cudahy business was doubtless
adopted solely to secure to the defendant some advantage
under the local laws.
The objection to the maintenance of the suit is not procedural-as where it is sought to defeat a suit against a
foreign corporation on the ground-that process has been
served upon one not authorized to act as its agent. Pennsylvania Lumbermen's Mutual Fire Insurance Co. v.
Meyer, 197 U. S. 407; St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v.
Alexander, 227 U. S. 218, 226. See Philadelphia& Read-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

ing Ry. Co. v. McKibben, 243 U. S. 264. The obstacle
insisted upon is that the court lacked jurisdiction because
the defendant, a foreign corporation, was not within the
State. No question of the constitutional powers of the
State, or of the federal Government, is directly presented.
The claim that jurisdiction exists is not rested upon the
provisions of any state statute or upon any local practice
dealing with the subject. The resistance to the assumption of jurisdiction is not urged on the ground that to
subject the defendant to suit in North Carolina would be
an illegal interference with interstate commerce. Compare InternationalHarvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S.
579, 587-9. The question is simply whether the corporate separation carefully misintained must be ignored
in determining the existence of jurisdiction.
The defendant wanted to have business transactions
with persons resident in North Carolina, but for reasons
satisfactory to itself did not choose to enter the State in'
its corporate capacity. It might have 'conducted guch
business through an independent agency without subjecting itself to the jurisdiction- Bank of America v. Whitney Central National Bank, 261 U. S. 171. It preferred
to employ a subsidiar:r corporation. Congress has not
provided that a corporation of one State shall be amenable
to suit in the federal court for another State in which the
plaintiff resides, whenever it employs- a subsidiary corporation as the instrumentality for doing business therein.
Compare Lumiere v. Mae Edna Wilder, Im., 261 U. S.
174, 177-8. That such use of a subsidiary does not necessarily subject. the parent corporation to the jurisdiction
was settled by Conley v. Mathieson Alkali Works, 190
U. S. 406, 409-11; Peterson v. Chicago, Rock Island &
Pacific Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 364; and People's Tobacco Co:,
Ltd. v. American Tobacco Co., 246 U. S. 79, 87. In the
case at bar, the identity of interest may have been more
complete and the exercise of control over the subsidiary

CANNON MFG. CO. v. CUDAHY CO.
333

337

Opinion of the Court.

morel'ntirmate than in the three cases cited, but that fact
has, iA the absence of an applicable statute, -no legal
significance. The corporate separation, though perhaps
merely formal, was real. It was not pure fiction. There
is here no attempt to hold the defendant liable for an act
or omission of its subsidiary or to enforce as against the
latter a liability of the defendant. Hence, cases concern-,
.ing substantive rights, like Hart Steel Company v. Railroad Supply Co., 244 U. S. 29.4; Chicago, etc. Ry. Co. v.
* Minneapolis Civic Association, 247 U. S. 490; Gulf Oil
Corp. v. Lewellyn, 248 U. S. 71; and United States v.
Lehigh.Valley R. R. Co., 254 U. S. 255, have no applica- tion.
The plaintiff contends, on a: further ground, that the
defendant was present in North Carolina: The argument is that there is no such thing as a corporation sole
under the laws of Alabama; that three stockholders are
necessary in order to sustain the existence of a corporate
entity; that where the number of members falls below
'three the entity falls into a state of suspense; that. the
defendant, in fact, owned all the stock in the Alabama
corporation; -that the directors of the latter could not
have been bona fide directors because not stockholders;
that its franchise was suspended,. First National Bank of
Gadsden v. Winchester, 119 Ala. 168; and that therefore
what was done in North Carolina must have been done
by the defendant. No Alabama case has been cited, or
found, which determines the effect, in that State, of such
alleged suspense. Nor has any case been cited, or found,
which determines what would be its effect under the
law of North Carolina. It is not' contended that the Alabama corporation was dissolved ipso facto by this concentration of its stock-or that its property became, in law,
that of the defendant. It may be that upon the concentration of its stock in the 'hands of the defendant, the
franchise of the Alabamna corporation became subject to

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

forfeiture in a judicial proceeding by the State; or that
thereby its status was reduced from a corporation de jure
to one de facto. .But whatever might be other legal consequences of the concentration, we cannot say that for
purposes of jurisdiction, the business of the Alabama
corporation in North Carolina became the business of the
defendant.
Affirmed.
MERRITT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM TILE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 159.

Argued January 5, 1925.--Decided March 2, 1925-

1. Action by a sub-contractor in the Court of Claims, held not maintainable under the Dent Act, §§ I and 4, the petition not showing
an agreement with the plaintiff entered into by or under authority
of the Secretary of War, or performed, etc., prior to November
12, 1918, or a claim presented before June 30, 1919, or that, before
a payment was made by the Government to the prime contractor,
the plaintiff had made expenditures, etc., "with the knowledge or
approval of any agent of the Secretary of War duly audthorized
thereunto." P. 340.
2. Where a contractor, upon settling with the Government under
the Dent Act, induced the claimant to release his sub-contract for
less than was due him by fraudulently misrepresenting to him the
basis upon which the settlement was made, and the Government,
learning this, exacted a repayment to itself from the contractor 'of
of an amount equal to that of which the claimant had thus been
defrauded, but it did not appear that the exaction was for the
claimant's benefit, held, that the claimant had no cause of action to
recover this amount from the United States under the Tucker Act,
since the United States was under no express contract to pay the
claimant and none was to be implied in fact. P. 340.
3..The Tucker Act does not give a right of action against the United
States in those cases where, if the transaction were between private parties, recovery could be had upon a contract implied in
law. Id.
4. The practice of the Court of Claims does not allow a general
statement of claim in analogy to the common counts, but requires

