86

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the CQurt.

.267 U.S.

lack of power cannot conclusively adjudge the indictment,
qua indictment, to be either good or bad or pass finally
upon the, guilt or innocence of the accused. A decision
discharging the prisoner neither annuls the indictment nor
blots out the offence. Upon the case here presented, the
trial court alone had plenary jurisdiction over the cause
and consequently alone had plenary power to pass upon
the sufficiency of the indictment as the pleading which
initiated and was the foundation of the prosecution. '
Judgment affirmed.
Mandate to issue forthwuith.
JAMES SHEWAN & SONS, INC. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
FOR THE SOUTHfERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 42." Argued October 7, 8,. 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.
A libelant whose libel against the United States for repairs on a vessel

was dismissed by the District Court but sustained by this Court
on appeal, held entitled, under the Suits in Admiralty Act, to costs
in the District Court and this Court, and interest as that court shall
order in accordance with the statute. P. 87.
APPEAL, from a decree of the District Court in Admiralty which dismissed a libel for repairs. The decree
was reversed (See 266 U. S. 108,) and the present decision
is upon an application to withdraw the mandate and to
award costs.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE TAFr delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On November 17, 1924, this Court reversed the decree
of the District Court for the Southern District of New
York, dismissing a libel in admiralty against the United
States, brought to recover the value of repairs made on the
steamship Biran, owned by the United States. The suit

EX PARTE GROSSMAN.
86

Syllabus.

was brought under an act authorizing suits against the
United States in admiralty, etc., approved March 9, 1920,
ch. 95, 41 Stat. 525. Nothing was said in the opinion
about costs. The ordinary rule is that costs are not allowed against the United States. Pine River Company
v. United States, 186 U. S.279, 296; Stanley v. Schwalby,
162 U. S.255, 272; United States v. Ringgold, 8 Peters,
150, 163; The Antelope, 12 Wheaton, 546, 550. The
mandate issued by the- Clerk accordingly did not award
any costs against the United States. The appellant now
applies for a withdrawal of the mandate, in order to award
them. He relies on Section 3 of the act under which the
suit was brought.- That provides that such suits. shall
proceed and shall be heard and determined according to
the principles of law and to the rules of practice obtaining
in like cases between private parties. A decree against
the United States may include costs of suit, and when the
decree is for money judgment, interest also at the rate of
4 per cent. per annum until satisfied, or at any higher
rate which shall be stipulated-in any contract upon which
such decree shall be based. Interest. is to run as ordered
by the court. In accordance with this provision we must
assess the costs of this appeal against the United States
and direct the District Court to assess also the costs of
suit in that court and interest as that court s6all order it
in accordance with the statute.
It is so ordered.
EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF PHILIP GROSS
MAN, PETITIONER.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 24, Original. Argued December 1, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. A criminal contempt, committed by disobedience of an injunction
issued by the District Court to abate a nuisance in pursuance of

