338

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

forfeiture in a judicial proceeding by the State; or that
thereby its status was reduced from a corporation de jure
to one de facto. .But whatever might be other legal consequences of the concentration, we cannot say that for
purposes of jurisdiction, the business of the Alabama
corporation in North Carolina became the business of the
defendant.
Affirmed.
MERRITT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM TILE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 159.

Argued January 5, 1925.--Decided March 2, 1925-

1. Action by a sub-contractor in the Court of Claims, held not maintainable under the Dent Act, §§ I and 4, the petition not showing
an agreement with the plaintiff entered into by or under authority
of the Secretary of War, or performed, etc., prior to November
12, 1918, or a claim presented before June 30, 1919, or that, before
a payment was made by the Government to the prime contractor,
the plaintiff had made expenditures, etc., "with the knowledge or
approval of any agent of the Secretary of War duly audthorized
thereunto." P. 340.
2. Where a contractor, upon settling with the Government under
the Dent Act, induced the claimant to release his sub-contract for
less than was due him by fraudulently misrepresenting to him the
basis upon which the settlement was made, and the Government,
learning this, exacted a repayment to itself from the contractor 'of
of an amount equal to that of which the claimant had thus been
defrauded, but it did not appear that the exaction was for the
claimant's benefit, held, that the claimant had no cause of action to
recover this amount from the United States under the Tucker Act,
since the United States was under no express contract to pay the
claimant and none was to be implied in fact. P. 340.
3..The Tucker Act does not give a right of action against the United
States in those cases where, if the transaction were between private parties, recovery could be had upon a contract implied in
law. Id.
4. The practice of the Court of Claims does not allow a general
statement of claim in analogy to the common counts, but requires

MERRITT v. UNITED STATES.
338

339

Opinion of the Court.

a plain, concise statement of the facts relied on, not leaving the
defendant in doubt as to what must be met. P. 341.
58 Ct. Chns. 371 affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing the petition on demurrer.
Mr. L. B. Perkins for appellant, submitted. Mr. L. A.
Widmayer was also on the briefs.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr. Assistant Attorney General Lovett and Mr. Roscoe R. Koch,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In July, 1918, or earlier, the United States contracted
with the Panama Knitting Mills for a quantity of khaki
at $3.20 a yard. In June, 1919, this contract was cancelled by a new agreement between the Government and
the Mills, made pursuant to the Dent Act, March 2, 1919,
c. 94, 40 Stat. 1272. Under the cancellation agreement
the Government adjusted its liability by accepting delivery of half of the khaki originally contracted for,
paying the contract rate together with the carrying
charges. The Mills had a sub-contract with the plaintiff
for the supply of the khaki. By falsely representing
that the Government compelled settlement on the basis
of $2.50 a yard plus the carrying charges, the Mills in-'
duced the plaintiff to release it, on that basis, from the
sub-contract. When the Government learned of the fraud
thus perpetrated, it exacted from the Mills a repayment of
$5,210.02-the difference between the amount actually
paid by the Government and what would have been paid
if settlement had been made on the basis of $2.50 a yard.

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

This suit was brought in March, 1923, to recover from
the United States the sum so repaid. The Court of.
Claims dismissed the petition on demurrer for failure to
state a cause of action. The case is here on appeal under
§ 242 of the Judicial Code.
Plaintiff cannot recover under the Dent Act. There
are three obstacles. It does not appear, as required by
§ 1, that, prior to November 12, 1918, an agreement with
the plaintiff, express or implied, was entered into by the
Secretary of War, or "by. any officer or agent acting under
his authority, direction, or instruction, or that of the
President." Baltimore & Ohio,R. R. Co. v. United States,
261 U. S. 385; Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. United
States, 261 U. S. 592. It does not appear, as required by
§ 1, that any such agreement had been "performed
, or expenditures . . made or obligations in-,
curred upon the faith of the same. . . prior to" November 12; 1918. Price Fire & Water Proofing Co. v.
United States, 261 U. S. 179, 183. It does not appear, as
required by § 1, that the claim sued on was presented
before June 30, 1919. The Dent Act affords relief
although there is no agreement "executed in the manner prescribed by law," but only under the conditions
stated. The plaintiff is not helped by § 4.which deals
with sub-contracts; among other reasons, because it does
not appear, as therein prescribed, that, before the payment made by the Government to the prime contractor,
the plaintiff had "made expenditures, incurred obligations, rendered service, or furnished material, equipment,
or supplies to such prime contractor, with the knowledge
and approval of any agent of the Secretary of War duly
authorized thereunto."
Plaintiff cannot recover under the Tucker Act, Judicial
Code, § 145, 24 Stat. 505. The petition does not allege
any contract, express or implied in fact, by the Government with the plaintiff to pay the. latter fo the.khaki on

MITCHELL v. UNITED STATES.
338

Syllabus.

any basis. Nor does it set forth facts from which such
a contract will be implied. The pleader may have intended to sue for money had and received. But no facts
are alleged which afford any basis for a claim that the
repayment made by the Mills was exacted by the Government for the benefit of the plaintiff. The Tucker Act
does not give a right of action against the United States
in those cases where, if the transaction were between private parties, recovery could be had upon a contract implied in law. Tempel v. United States, 248 U. S. 121;
Sutton v. United States, 256 U. S. 575, 581. For aught
that appears repayment was compelled solely for the
benefit of the Government, under the proviso in § 1 of the
Dent Act, which authorizes recovery of money paid under
a settlement, if it has been defrauded.
The practice of the Court of Claims, while liberal, does
not allow'a general statement of claim in analogy to the
common counts. It requires a plain, concise statement of
the facts relied upon. See Rule 15, Court of Claims. The
petition may not be so gqneral as to leave the defendant
in doubt as to what must be met. Schierling v. United
States, 23 Ct. Clms. 361; The Atlantic Works v. United
States, 46 Ct. Clms. 57, 61; New Jersey Foundry & Machine 'Co. v. United States, 49 Ct. Clms. 235; United
States v. Stratton, 88 Fed. 54, 59.
Affirmed.
MITCHELL ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 176.

Argued January 15, 1925.-Decided March .2, 1925.

1. The Act of October 6, 1917, c. 79, 40 Stat. 345, to increase facilities for testing ordnance materials, appropriated money to pay for
buildings, land, etc., "and damages and losses to persons" .
resulting from the'procurement of the.land," and provided that, if
land and improvements could not be procured.by purchase, the

