30,

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 t. S.

THE STATE OF NEW MEXICO v. THE STATE OF
COLORADO.
IN EQUITY.

No. 12 Original.

Argued December 2, 3, 1924.-Decided January
26, 1925.

1. A line-surveyed and marked in 1868 as the location of the parallel
designated as the common boundary of the Territories, and later
the States, of Colorado and New Mexico, was adopted and recognized by the United States as the true location and boundary,
both during the existence of the two Territories and thereafter
while New Mexico remained a Territory and Colorado was a State;it was likewise accepted and relied on by the State of Colorado
from her admission in 1876, and by the State of New Mexico from
her admission, in 1912, until she brought this suit against Colorado
in 1919, wherein she claimed that another survey and location,
made in 1903 under an appropriation from Congress, and which
had been accepted by the General Land Office from 1904 to 1908,
and approved in 1908 by a joint resolution of Congress which was
vetoed by the President,. should be established as the true location
of the boundary.
-Held: (a) That New Mexico, tipon her admission as a State, was
bound by the previous recognition and adoption of the earlier
location by the United States, her predecessor,, and could -not be
heard to disavow the boundary thus recognized. P. 41.
(b) The effect of this recognition of the earlier location by the
United States was not impaired by the temporary recognition of
the later one by the General Land Office. Id.
(c) After Colorado's admission as a State, her right to rely upon
the boundary previously established could not be impaired by any
-subsequent action of the United States. Id.
(d) New Mexico was bound also by her own recognition and adoption of the earlier line upon and. after her admission to statehood.
Id.,
2. The boundary between the States of Colorado and New Mexico
is the line of the 37th parallel as surveyed and marked by Darling
from the Macomb monument westwardly to the 109th Meridian,
and as surveyed, and marked by Major and Preston from the said
Macomb monument eastwardly to the Preston monument on the
103rd or Cimarron Meridian. P. 39.

NEW MEXICO v. COLORADO.
30

31

Argument for Plaintiff.

TRis was an original suit brought in this Court by the
State of New Mexico against the State of Colorado to
settle a controversy over their common boundary. New
Mexico's bill was dismissed and a decree was directed,
under Colorado's cross-bill, for a resurvey and remarking
of the line found by the Court to be the true one, in accordance with Colorado's contention.
Mr. Frank W. Clancy, for cornplainant.
First, it is clear that the later, or Carpenter, survey is
as good as can be made.
Second, the earlier, Darling, survey is inaccurate, defective, and in part a work of pure fiction.
Third, the General Land Office must have been thoroughly convinced of the utterly worthless character of the
Darling survey, when it directed the making of a new and
independent survey of the 37th parallel with an.accompanying destruction, as far as possible, of all evidence on
the earth's surface of the Darling line.
Fourth, Congress presumably took the same view when
it authorized that new survey, and, later, passed a9resolution adopting the Carpenter line.
Fifth, New Mexico has not recognized the Darling line
as a boundary. It could not acquiesce in such a matter
until it became a State, January 6, 1912; and this suit
was brought with reasonable diligence thereafter.
Sixth, the United States while recognizing the Darling
line for years, only because nobody .questioned it, finally
repudiated it and tried to destroy it. The recoghition
was by no means continuous. Missouri v. Iowa, 7 How.
660, differs widely on the facts and is inapplicable.
- Seventh, even the State of Colorado, through its legislature, in 1901, shows a lack of certainty as to the Darling
line which it- now claims to have recognized ever since
1868.
"Messrs. Oliver Dean, Assistant Attorney General
of
Colorado; W. C. Williams, Attorney General, and Delph

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Defendant.

267 U. S.

E. Carpenter, Special Counsel, with whom Mr. Charles
Roach, Deputy Attorney General, was on the brief, for
defendant.
I. The Darling-Major line was established by the
United States when both Colorado and New Mexico were
Territories and both States are bound by that boundary
line. Missouriv.Iowa, 7 How: 660; Missouriv. Kentucky,.
11 Wall. 395; Indiana v. Kentucky, 136 U. S. 479; Alt
v. Butz, 81 N. J. L. 156; Billingsley v. Bates, 30 Ala. 376;
Climer v. Wallace, 28 Mo. 556; Mayor etc. of Liberty v.
Burns, 114 Mo. 426; Granby Mining etc. Co. v. Davis,
156 Mo. 422; Arneson v. Spawn, 2 S. Dak. 269; Goodman
v. Myrick, 5 Ore. 65; Jones v. Kimble, 19 Wis. 429; Washington.Rock Co. v. Young, 110 Am. St. R. 678.
II. The surveys of the Darling-Major line made in
1868 and 1874 are the senior surveys of the boundary line
and must prevail over the junior survey made by Carpenter in 1902.
The Carpenter survey is not shown to have been made
by proper authority. It was simply a new and independent survey, and does not purport to show the line
as originally established.
Original survey of lands, upon the faith of which property rights have been based and acquired, controls over
surveys subsequently made which injuriously affect such
rights. Washington Rock Co. v. Young, 29 Utah 108;
Clement v. Parker,125 U. S. 309.
A subsequent survey cannot alter or control an original
survey. When this can be traced or proved it must
govern. Diehl v. Zanger. 39 Mich. 601; City of Racine
v. Emerson, 85 Wis. 80.
III. The Darling-Major line is the boundary between
these States by reason of the recognition and acceptance
thereof by the Territories and later by the States of Colorado and New Mexico and by the United States from
the time of the'gurvey thereof until the time this suit
was filed.

NEW MEXICO v. COLORADO.
30

Opinion of the Court.

New Mexico is not only bound by the acts of the United
States in surveying, establishing, monumenting and there-after recognizing and adopfing the Darling-Major line
as the true boundary, but is also estopped by the doctrines
of long possession, prescription, laches and acquiescence
from now asserting a different boundary. Rhode Island
v. Massachusetts, 4 How. 591; Indiana v. Kentucky, 136
U. S. 479; Virginiav. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503; Louisiana
v. Mississippi, 202 U. S. 1; Maryland v. West Virginia,
217 U. S. 1.
IV. The Carpenter survey has no legal status as a
boundary line because it was made without the consent
of the State of Colorado, never received the approval of
the State, was rejected by Congress and has always been
disregarded by every department of the Government of
the United States.
MR. JusTIcE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a guit in equity, within the original jurisdiction
of this Court, brought by the State of New Mexico against
the State of Colorado, in 1919, to settle a controversy as
to the location of their common boundary line. Under
the Acts of Congress under which they were admitted
into the Union and their respective Constitutions, this is
the 37th parallel of north latitude between its intersections with the 103rd and 109th meridians of longitude
west from Greenwich.'
The only dispute is as to the location of this line.
Different surveys have been made. New Mexico alleges
in its bill that the true line is that which was surveyed
'The 26th and 32nd meridians west from Washington.

Colorado:

Act of Mar. 3, 1875, c. 139, 18 Stat. 474; Constitution, Art. I. New
Mexico: Act of June 20, 1910, c. 310, 36 Stat. 557; Constitution,
Art. I, Sec. 2.

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

and marked by Howard B. Carpenter in 1903, and prays
that this be decreed to be the boundary. Colorado, in an
answer and cross bill, alleges that the true line is that
which was surveyed and marked by Ehud N. Darling in
1868, and extended by John J. Major and Levi S. Preston
in 1874 and 1900; and prays that this line be decreed to
be; the boundary, and that, in so far as necessary, it be
restored and remarked.
The case has been heard on evidence taken by examiners, supplemented by a stipulation of the parties. The
material facts are these: The Territory of New Mexico
was established in 1850,2 and the Territory of Colorado in
1861.8 Under the Acts of Congress their common boundary was the 37th parallel, between the 103rd and 109th
meridians.
In 1867 Congress made an appropriation, for the
"survey of the thirty-seventh parallel of north latitude,
so far as it constitutes the northern boundary of the Territory of New Mexico." " The Commissioner of the General Land Office- employed Ehud N. Darling, a surveyor
and'astronomer, to make this survey. He made the survey in 1868, and filed his field notes in the Land Office.
In accordance with his instructions, he adopted as the
northeast corner of New Mexico a stone monument that
had been established by Capt. J. N. Macomb, an Army
Engineer, in 1859, to mark the intersection of the 37th
parallel with the 103rd meridian, and, taking this as his
beginning point, surveyed and marked the line of the
parallel, as determined by astronomical observations and
calculations for latitude, westwardly to the 109th meridian, a distance of over 331- miles. As shown by the
field notes he established on this line eleven " astronomical monuments," with "mile corners," usually -marked
'9 Stat. 447, c. 49.
12 Stat. 172, c. 59.
14 Stat. 457, 466, c. 167.

NEW MEXICO v. COLORADO:
30

.Opinion of the Court.

stones, at the end of each mile where the nature of the
ground made this possible, otherwise locating .the mile
corners by triangulation. In 1869 the Commissioner of
the General Land Office approved these field notes, and
published an official "Map of the Boundary Line between
Colorado & New Mexico on the 37th Parallel North Latitude," made in conformity to them.
Several years later the Commissioner of the General
Land Office employed John J. Major, a surveyor and
astronomer, to survey and mark the remaining portion
of the southern boundary of the Territory of Colorado,
extending along the 37th parallel to the 102nd meridian.
Major made this survey in 1874, and marked the line
of the parallel between the Macomb monument and
that meridian. The field notes of this survey were
filed in the Land Office and approved by the Commissioner.
In 1876 the State of Colorado was admitted into the
Union, with the same southern boundary line as that of
the Territory.'
Some years later the 103rd meridian was established on
a line known as the "Cimarron Meridian," intersecting
the 37th pairllel a short distance east of the Macomb
monument. Thereafter the United States Surveyor General employed Levi S. Preston, a deputy surveyor, to resurvey and retrace the north boundary of New Mexico
between the Macomb monument and the Cimarron meridian. Preston made this survey in 1900, retracing and
remarking this portion of the h ajor line, and established
at the intersection of that line and the Cimarron meridian,
about two miles east of the Macomb monument, a sandstone corner since known as the Preston monument. The
field notes of this resurvey were filed in the office of the
Surveyor General and approved by him.
'President's Proclamation, Aug. 1, 1876, 19 Stat. 664. See note 1,
supra.

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

In 1901 the State of Colorado appointed a commissioner
to resurvey and remark a portion of its southern boundary line as surveyed and established by Darling, on which
one of his astronomical monuments had disappeared and.
a number ot mile corners could not be found.' Both
the Territory of New Mexico and the Interior Department were invited to join in this resurvey, but neither
did so; and*it was made by the Colorado commissioner
alone.
In 1902 an examiner of surveys in the General Land
Office, on an inspection of about sixty miles of Darling's
original line, reported that but few of the corners then
remained, and that the line was evidently erroneously
established between identified monuments; aid the Commissioner urged that the entire southern, line of Colorado
be regurveyed and reestablished. Thereupon, on the recommendation of the Secretary of the Interi6r 7 Congress
made an appropriation for "the resurvey and reestablishment, oil the line of the thirty-seventh parallel of north
latitude, of the boundary line between the State of Colorado and the Territories of New Mexico and Oklahoma"
between the 102nd and 109th meridians.' The Commissioner of the General Land Office employed Howard B.
Carpenter, a surveyor and astronomer, to make this resurvey. He was not directed to retrace the lines previously established, but to make an independent survey,
anal was specifically instructed to "obliterate" all evidences of the corners and monuments that had been set by
Darling. Carpenter completed this resurvey in 1903, and
filed his field notes in the Land Office in 1904. These
were approved by the Commissioner. Carpenter surColorado Laws, 1901, c. 37.
7 57th Cong., 1st Sess., H, R. Doe. No. 604.
8 Act of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 552, 574, c. 1351. The 37th parallel
was also the common boundary of Colorado and Oklahoma, between
the 102nd and 103rd meridians.
6

NEW MEXICO v. COLORADO.
30

Opinion of the Court.

veyed an entirely different line from the Darling and
Major-Preston lines. His new line commenced on the
109th meridian, at some distance north of the Darling
line, and ran for the greater portion of .the boundary
north of that line, although crossing it shortly before
reaching the Macomb monument and running for th4
remainder of the distance somewhat to the south of the
Darling and Major-Preston lines. Taken as a whole, its
effect, if established as the boundary, would be to transfer
a large strip of territory from Colorado to New Mexico,
including the greater portions of one town and two villages, and five post offices. Carpenter established on his
new line eight stone astronomical monuments, and mile
corners, marked by iron posts, wherever it was practicable;
and whenever he found one of Darling's mile corners
.or astronomical monuments, after noting its location,
either destroyed it completely or obliterated the marks
upon it.
After the Commissioner's approval of the Carpenter line
the General -Land Office ceased to recognize the Darling
and Major-Preston line as the boundary between Colorado and New Mexico in so far as related to the public
lands, as it had theretofore done, and for a time recognized the Carpenter line as the boundary.
In 1908 Congress passed a Joint Resolution accepting
the line of the Carpenter survey "as.the proper location
of the thirty-seventh parallel and the true boundary line"
'between the States of Colorado and Oklahoma and the
Territory of New Mexico.' This resolution was, however, vetoed by the President; and no further action was
taken by Congress.
After this veto by the President the General Land Office
abandoned its recognition of the Carpenter line, and thereafter continued to recognize the Darling and MajorPreston line as the boundary.
960th Cong., 2d Sess., Sen. Doe. No. 604.

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

.267U.S.

In 1912 the State of New Mexico was admitted into the
Union, with the same northern boundary line as that of
the Territory.' °
In 1917 about forty miles of Darling's original line
included in the resurvey that had been made by the Colorado commissioner, were resurveyed and restored under
the direction and with the approval of the Comiiiissioner
of the General Land Office.
In addition to the foregoing matters the"stipulation of
the parties recites:---" That, except as may otherwise be
shown by the record in this case as now made, for more
than thirty years the position of the:Darling line, from
the Macomb Monument to the . .
109th meridian
of longitude West from Greenwich, remained undisputed
and the correctness of its technical execution unquestioned, and, as so established, the said Darling line has
been recognized and acquiesced in by the United States,
by the Territory and State of Colorado, by the Territory
of New Mexico and by the State of New Mexico except
as otherwise indicated by the bringing of this suit, and
has been and is now recognized and accepted by the Land
Department of the United States, in its surveys of the
public domain, as the boundary line between Colorado
and New Mexico from the Macomb Monument westward,
except so far as may otherwise appear (if it does other-"
wise appear) by the record in this case; that from 1868
to the present time the Territory and later the State of
Colorado . . .. has claimed and exercised dominion
and sovereignty, and now claims the same, over the territory down to the boundary as established by said Darling
and no farther; that county lines have been formed,
towns and settlements have grown up, school districts,
election districts, voting precincts, and land districts and
water districts have been created with reference to said
1oPresident's Proclamation, Jan. 6, 1912, 37 Stat. 1723.

supra.

See note 1,

NEW MEXICO v. COLORADO.
30

Opinion of the Court.

line; public officers have been elected, property has been
assessed and taxes levied and collected under the authority of the Territory and State of Colorado, and its
courts of both civil and criminal jurisdiction have exercised jurisdiction in all places north of said Darling line
and the Territory and State of New Mexico has exercised
like jurisdiction in all places south of said line; that
government postoffice [s] ha-Ve, been established as being
in Colorado when north of said line and as in .New Mexico
when south of said line, and that public land surveys' on
both sides of sid line have been closed thereon, lands have
been disposed of, rights acquired and political boundaries
in both Colorado and New Mexico have been fixed by
refe-ence to said )ine. That since. 1874 the Major survey
snd marking of the :37th parallel of North latitude
westward to the Macomb Monument has been the
recognized and accepted' South boundary of Colorado
between satd points and since the acceptance. of the
Preston si rey, retracement and remarkhig of said line.
in the year 1901, said line as remarked and retraced by
Preston between said Macomb Monument and the Preston Morument, at the intersection of said parallel with
the Cimarron Meridian, has been and now is the recognized and accepted boundary between Colorado and New
Mexico .9t all points between said Monuments."
There is some evidence, of a very general nature, as
to the relative correctness of the location of the line of
the 37th pDrallel as established by Darling, Major and
Preston, and by Carpenter. It may well be that neither
is entirely correct. We have no occasion, however, to
determine this question, or to settle the precise location
of the parallel line as an 'original matter, since; upon the
uncontradicted facts, it is entirely clear that the line of
the parallel as surveyed and marked by Darling westwardly from the Macomb mounment, and by Major and
Preston. from the Macomb monument to the Preston

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

monument, must be now taken as the established boundary between the two States.
There is no question as to the portion of this line be" tween the Macomb monument and the Preston monument, since it is expressly agreed that since this line was
surveyed by Major in 1874 and resurveyed by Preston in
1901 it "has been and now is the recognized and accepted
boundary between Colorado and New Mexico at all points
between said Monuments."
The remainder of the line as surveyed and marked by
Darling from the Macomb monument to the 109th meridian, must likewise be held to be the recognized and
established boundary.
From 1868, when Darling ran and marked the line of
the 37th.parallel, to 1919, when this suit was brought, a
period of more than half a century, his line was recognized and acquiesced in, successively, as the boundary
between the two Territories, between the Sfate of Colorado and the Territory of New Mexico, and between the
two States. In Missouri v. Iowa, 7 Howard 660, which
involved the location of the boundary line between the
two States running with "the Indian Boundary line,"
it was held that governments are bound by the practical
line that has been established as their boundary, although
not precisely a true one; and that as the United States before either of the States had been admitted into the Union
and after Missouri had been admitted but while Iowa still
remained a Territory, had recognized and adopted the
line of a certain survey as the "Indian boundary line"
and was committed to that line as the boundary of Missouri, Iowa when admitted was bound by the recognition
and adoption of that line by the United States, her predecessor, and could not be heard to disavow it as the
boundary. So here, the United States, from 1868 to 1876,
while still owning the public domain and having paramount jurisdiction as to territorial houndaries, recognized

NEW MEXICO v. COLORADO.
30

Opinion of the Court.

and adopted the Darling line as the true location of the
parallel and the boundary between the two Territories,
and thereafter, from 1876 to 1912, while.retaining paramount jurisdiction as to New Mexico, recognized this line
as the boundary between the State of Colorado and the
Territory of New Mexico; and the State of New Mexico
on being admitted into the Union was bound by the previous recognition and adoption of this line by the United
States, her predecessor, and cannot be heard to disavow
the boundary thus recognized. The effect of this recognition of the Darling line by the United States was not
impaired by the temporary recognition of the Carpenter
line by the General Land Office, from: 1904 to 1908. The
United States had resumed its recognition of the Darling
line several years before New Mexico was admitted as a
State. Further, after Colorado had been admitted into
the Union in 1876 its right to rely upon the line previously
established could not be impaired- by any subsequent
action on the part of the United States. Thus, after the
Land Department has surveyed and disposed of public
lands, the rights therein acquired are not affected by
corrective surveys subsequently made by the Department. United States v. Investment Co., 264 U. S. 206,
212, and cases there cited. And, independently of these
matters, New Mexico is bound by its own recognition
and adoption of the Darling line, from 1912 to the beginning of this suit, after its admission to statehood. Missouri v. Iowa, supra, p. 677.
It results that the bill of New Mexico, praying -the
establishment of the Carpenter line, must be dismissed;
and that, under the cross bill of Colorado, the Darling and
Major-Preston line must be decreed to be the boundary
between the two States.
This boundary line should now be resurveyed and remarked by a commissioner or commissioners appointed
by the court; such action to be subject to its approval.

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

Missouri v. Iowa, supra, p. 679; Indiana v. Kentucky,
136 U. S. 479, 519; Oklahoma v. Texas, 260 U. S. 606, 640.
The parties may-submit within thirty days the form
of a decree to carry these conclusions into effect.
Bill dismissed and decree directed under cross-bill.

SWISS NATIONAL INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED v. THOMAS W. MILLER, AS ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, AND FRANK WHITE, AS
TREASURER OF THE UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 132.

Argued November 18, 1924.-Decided February 2, 1925.

1. Where a corporation was an "enemy" within the definition of
the Trading with the Enemy Act because doing business in Germany, the enemy status of its property then seized in this country
was not changed by a subsequent cessation of such business.
P. 44.
2. The fact that an enemy corporation ceased to be an enemy when
the war was ended by the Joint Resolution of July 2, 1921, did not
entitle it to a return of its seized property; for, by § 12 of the
Trading with the Enemy Act, such claims were to be settled by
future direction of Congress. Id.
3. Clause 1 of § 9-b of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended
June 5, 1920, c. 241, 41 Stat. 977, which provides for return of
seized enemy property whose owner was and' remains a "citizen
or subject" of a nation other than Germany, Austria, Hungary or
Austria Hungary, cannot be construed as including corporations.
So held in view of the use of "citizen or subject" in other clauses
of the section relating only to natural persons, and more particularly because the 6th clause of the same section makes a special
classification of partnerships, associations and corporatiQns, allowing return of property if they were and remain entirely owned
by subjects qr citizens of nations other than those above mentioned. P. 45.
4. Whether the terms "citizen or subject" are broad enough to
include corporations depends upon the intent to be gathered from
the legislation in which they occur. P. 46.

