BLUNDELL v. WALLACE.
364

373

Syllabus.

of depreciation. Evidently, it was taken for granted in
the lower court that under the decision in the Sargent
Land Co. case, the latter point was no longer open; and
it was passed there, as it was here, without comment.
Considering the'Sargent Land Co. and. the Biwabik MinIng Co. cases together, it is apparent that in respect of
the matter of depreciationunder the Act of 1909, in the
opinion of this court, lessor and lessee stood upon the
same footing, neither being entitled to an allowance; but
it was plainly recognized that if the statutory allowance
had been for exhaustion or depletion, as in the later acts,
an entirely different question might have been presented
as to both interests. We find nothing in either case out
of harmony with the conclusion reached by the lower
courts, in respect of the construction and application of
the pertinent provisions of law which are now under
review.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTicn BUTLER took no part in the consideration
or decision of this cause.
BLUNDELL, EXECUTOR, ET AL. v. WALLACE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREIE COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA;

No. 276. Argued January 29, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1.-Section 2.3 of the Act of April 26, 1906, disposing of the affairs
of the Five Civilized Tribes, which provides:, "Every person of
lawful age and sound mind may by last will and testament devise
and bequeath all of his estate, real and personal, and all interest
therein," was intended (save the proviso limiting full-bloods) to
enable the Indiapl to dispose of his estate by will on the same
footing as any other citizen, notwithstanding restrictions previously
imposed against alienation of allotments (e. g., by ChoctawChickasaw Supplemental Agreement, July 1, 1902, §§ 12 and 16),
leaving the regulatory local laW of wills 'free to operate as in the
case of other persons and property. P. 375.

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

2. Hence the will of a married half-blood Choctaw woman devising
her homestead and surplus allotments is subject to the provision
of the Oklahoma law (Rev. L. 1910, § 8341), forbidding any woman
while married to "bequeath more than two-thirds of her property
away from her husband." Id.
96 Okla. 26, affirmed.

ERROR to a decree of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma
which affirmed a decree in favor of the plaintiff, Wallace,
in his suit to quiet title to an interest in certain Choctaw
Indian allotments.
Mr. Reford Bond, for plaintiffs in error, submitted.
Mr. John B. Dudley, with whom Mr. W. L. Farmerand
Mr. Cicero I. Murray were on the brief, for defendant in
error.

MR. JuSTICE SUrHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.

This is a suit to quiet title to a one-third interest in
homestead and surplus lands originally allotted to Patsy
Poff, a half-blood Choctaw Indian woman, under the Act
of July 1, 1902, c. 1362, 32 Stat. 641. She died August 7,
1916, David H. Poff, her husband, surviving. By her will
made in 1912, which was duly probated, she devised the
entire allotment to Juanita and Oleta Blundell, her great
granddaughters, bequeathing to her husband only a nominal sum. Defendant in error asserts title through mesne
conveyances vesting in him the interest. of David H. Poff.
His suit is based on the provisions of § 8341, Rev. Laws
Okla. 1910 (§ 11224 Comp. Stats. Okla. 1921), which
reads:
"Every estate and interest in real or personal property
to whict{ heirs, husband, widow, or next of kin might
*succeed, may be disposed of by will: Provided, that no
marriage contract in writing has been entered into between the parties; no man while married shall bequeath

BLUNDELL v. WALLACE.
373

Opinion of the Court.

more than two-thirds of his property away from his wife,
nor shall any woman while married bequeath more than
two-thirds of her property away from her husband; Provided, further, that no person who is prevented by law
from alienating, conveying or encumbering real property
while living shall be allowed to bequeath same by will."
Plaintiff in error contends that this statute as applied
to Patsy Poff's will is in direct conflict with § 23 of the
Act of Congress of April 26, 1906, disposing of the affairs
of the Five Civilized Tribes, c. 1876, 34 Stat. 137, 145,
and, therefore, invalid. Section 23 is as follows:
"Every person of lawful age and sound mind may by
last will and testament devise and bequeath all of his
estate, real and personal, and all interest therein: Provided, That no will of a full-blood Indian devising real
estate shall be valid, if such last will and testament disinherits the parent, wife, spouse, or children of such fullblood Indian, unless acknowledged before and approved
by a judge of the United States court for the Indian Territory, or a United States commissioner."
There was an amendment in 1908 in a detail not important here. It was held below that the state statute
applied; that there was no conflict with the federal
statute; that defendant in error was entitled to recover,
and the decree went accordingly. 96 Okla. 26.
A brief reference to the state of the law at the time of
the passage of § 23 will help to clear the way for a correct
determination of the question, By §§ 12 and 16 of the
supplemental agreement with the Choctaws and Chickasaws, ratified by the Act of July 1, 1902, supra, lands of
the kind here involved were declared to be inalienable
during specified periods of time. It is settled that this
restriction against alienation extended to a disposition by
will, Taylor v. Parker, 235 U. S.42; and, but for § 23,
it is plain that the devise in question, at-least as to the
homestead, would have been without effect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

But, it must be borne in mind, the restriction was in
respect of the specified lands and did not affect the testamentary power of the Indians to dispose of their alienable
property, which power, on the contrary, has been fully
recognized, first, by an extension of the appropriate laws
of Arkansas over the Indian Territory, and then, upon
the admission of the State of Oklahoma, by the substitution therefor of Oklahoma law. Taylor v. Parker,supra;
Jefferson v. Fink, 247 U. S. 288, 294. The general policy
of Congress prior to the adoption of § 23, plainly had-been
to consider the local law of descents and wills applicable
to the persons and estates of Indians except in so far as
it was otherwise provided. Thus, by § 2 of the Act of
April 28, 1904, c. 1824, 33 Stat. 573, the laws of Arkansas,
theretofore put in force in the Indian Territory, were expressly "continued and extended in their operation, so
as to embrace all persons and estates in said Territory,
whether Indian, freedmen, or otherwise," and jurisdiction
was conferred upon the courts of the Territory in the
settlement of the estates of decedents, etc., whether
Indian, freedmen, or otherwise.
Section 23 must be read in the light of this policy; and,
so reading it, we agree with the ruling of the state
supreme court that Congress intended thereby to enable
"the Indian to dispose of his estate on the same footing
as any other citizen, with the limitation contained in the
proviso thereto." The effect of § 23 was to remove arestriction theretofore existing upon the testamentary power of
the Indians, leaving the regulatory local law free to operate
as in the- case of other persons and property. There is
nothing in Blanset v. Cardin., 256 U. S. 319, cited to the
contrary, which militates against this view. That case
involved the will of a Quapaw woman devising her restricted lands away from her husband. It was held that
§ 8341 of the Oklahoma laws did not apply because it
was in conflict with an act of Congress. But the act there

NEWARK v. CENTRAL R.R.
373

377

Syllabus.

considered was very different from the one now under
review. There the authority to dispose of restricted
property by will was limited by the provisions of the Act
of February 14, 1913, c. 55, 37 Stat. 678, that the Will
must be "in accordance with regulations to be prescribed
by the Secretary of the Interior," and that no will "shall
be valid or have any force or effect unless and until it
shall have been approved" by that officer. By this language the intent of Congress to exclude the local law and
to establish the regulations of the Secretary as alone controlling was made evident; and it was so held. But here
the federal statute contains no provision of like character;
it is without qualification except in the single particular
set forth in the proviso; and, clearly, it does not stand
in the way of the operation of the local law.
Affirmed.
CITY OF NEWARK, ET AL. v. CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY OF NEW JERSEY, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 351.

Argued November 21, 24, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.

1. New Jersey, by empowering a railroad company to have as
many tracks within its specified right of way as it might deem
necessary, and to erect suitable bridges to accommodate them,
including draw bridges over navigable waters crossed, impliedly
consented that, in the maintenance and- improvement of the railroad, a draw bridge over Newark Bay, originally constructed
with two tracks, might be replaced by a better one accommodating four tracks upon substantially the same location. Ls. N. J.
1860, c. 64. P. 381.
2. Both state and federal governments having consented to this
replacement, it is unnecessary to decide whether the acts of Congress and approval of the plans' by the Chief of Engineers and
Secretary of War would be sufficient without the consent of the

