408

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U.S.

advantage in any respect whatsoever." It is elementary
and well settled that there can be no divided authority
over interstate commerce, and that the acts of Congress
on that subject are supreme and exclusive. Transportation from Oxly to Saint Louis over the route partly within
and partly outside of Missouri is interstate commerce.
Hanley v. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co., 187 U. S. 617,
620; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Speight, 254 U. S.
17. It was shown that the shipment would have moved
by that r6ute. The record discloses n6 facts which would
impose upon petitioner any obligation to haul respondent's lumber over the intrastate route. See Northern
Pacific Ry Co. v. Solum, 247 U. S. 477, 482. The state
law has no application to the furnishing of cars to shippers for the transportation of freight in interstate commerce. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. v. Hardwick
Elevator Co., 226 U. S.426, 435; SouthernRy. Co. v. Reid,
222 U. S.424, 435; Steel v. Railr6ad, 165 Mo. App. 311,
317.
Judgment reversed.

UNITED STATES AND BOWERS, COLLECTOR OF
INTERNAL REVENUE, v. KAUFMAN, TRUSTEE
IN BANKRUPTCY OF FINKELSTEIN, ET AL.
UNITED STATES AND BOWERS, COLLECTOR OF
INTERNAL REVENUE, v. COXE, RECEIVER OF
JONES AND BAKER, BANKRUPTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 515 and 516.

Argued Januaiy 13, 1925-Decided March 2,
1925.

1. A tax assessed under Revenue Act of 1918 upon the income of a
partner, is a tax against the individual and not the partnership,

UNITED STATES v. KAUFMAN.
408

409

Opinion of the Court.

whether or not his income was deriv6d from partnership business.
P. 410.
2. In proceedings in bankruptcy against a partnership the partnership assets must first be applied to the payment of the parnership debts, and the United States is not entitled to any priority
of payment out of such assets for a tax due it from an individual
partner, except to the extent of the share of such partner, if any,
in the surplus remaining after the payment of the partnership debts.
Bankruptcy Act, § 5f, 64 (a); Rev. Stats. § 3466, 3186, as
amended, considered. P. 411.
298 Fed. 11, affirmed.
CsRTiomai to judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming orders of the District Court, in bankruptcy, which denied the right of the United States to
have the income taxes of individual partners paid out of
the assets of their bankrupt firms in preference to the
claims of partnership creditors.

Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
Mr. J. M. Hartfield, with whom Mr. Alfred C: Coze
Jr. and Mr. William St. John Tozer were on the brief,
for respondents.
MR. JusTicE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These two cases were heard together in the Circuit
Court of Appeals. They involve a single question relating to the extent of the priority of the United States in'
the collection of taxes in bankruptcy proceedings.
In 1921, on an involuntary petition'filed in the Southern District of New York, Finkelstein Brothers, a-partnership, and the individual partners thereof, were adjudged bankrupts. In 1923 the Collector of Internal

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Revenue filed proof of claim for an income tax assessed
against Abraham Finkelstein, one of the partners, for the
year 1919. It is stipulated that the income on which this
tax was based "was derived from the business of the copartnership." No individual assets of Finkelstein had
come.into the hands of the trustee, and the partnership
assets were insufficient to yield any surplus after the payment of the partnership debts. The Collector claimed
that the tax against Finkelstein should be paid out of the
partnership assets prior to the partnership debts. The
referee denied this claim, and ordered that the partnership assets first be applied to the payment of the partnership debts. This order was af4rmed by the District
Judge.
In 1923 an involuntary petition in bankruptcy was
filed in the same coirt against Jones & Baker, a partnership. A receiver was appointed, who collected and held
the partnership assets. Before an adjudication of bankruptcy the partnership offered a composition to its creditors at less than the full amount of their claims. This
was confirmed by the District Judge. Before the partnership assets were distributed, the Collector of. Internal
Revenue filed proofs of claims against the individual partners for income taxes assessed against them for the years
1918, 1919 and 1920. It does not appear that the income
on which these taxes were based was derived from the
business of the partnership. The Collector claimed that
these taxes should be paid out of the partnership assets
prior to the payments to the partnership creditors. The
Distict Judge denied this claim of priority.
On appeals to the Circuit Court of Appeals both orders
of the District Cort were affirmed. 298 Fed. 11. Writs
of certiorari were. granted by this court. 266 U. S. 596.
. 1. These taxes were assessed against the individual
partners and due from them to the' Tinited States. They
were neither assessed against, nor due froni, the partner-

UNITED STATES v. KAUFMAN.
408

Opinion of the Court.

ships. The tax assessed against Finkelstein was none the
less an individual tax because the income on which it- was
based was derived from partnership business. The Revenue Act of 1918, 40 Stat. 1057, c.18, § 218 (a), under
which it was assessed, specifically provided that "individuals carrying on business in partnership shall be liable
for income tax only in their individual capacity." The
provision that in computing the income of ea&h partner
there should be included his distributive share of the income of the partnership, whether distributed .or not, did
not change the nature of the tax or make it one against
the partnership.
2. The Bankruptcy Act gives the United States no
priority of payment out of partnership assets for a tax
due from an individual partner. Section 64 (a), which
provides that "the court shall order the trustee to pay all
taxes legally due and owing by the bankrupt to the
United States . . . in advance of the payment of
dividends to creditors," manifestly relates to the payment
of the taxes out of the estate of the lankrupt fromn whom
they are "due and owing." Where the bankrupt owing
the tax is a member Gf'a partnership, it gives the United
States no priority of payment out of the partnership
estate.
The Bankruptcy Act clearly recognizes the separate
entity of the ptrtnership forthe purpose of applying the
long-established rule as to the prier claim of partnership
debts on partnership assets and of individual, debts on
individual assets, and "establishes on>a. firm basis the
respective equities of the individual and firm treditors."
Francisv.McNeal, 228 U. S.695, 700; Schall v. Camors,
251 U. S. 239, 254. Sectiofi 5f provides that: "The net
proceeds of the partnership property shall be appropriiated to the payment of the partnership debts, and the
net proceeds of the individual estate of each partner to
the payment of his individual debts. Should any sur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U.S.

plus remain of the property of any partner after paying
his individual debts, such surplus shall be added to the
partnership assets and be applied to the payment of partnership debts. Should any surplus of the partnership
property remain after paying the partnership debts, such
surplus shall be added to the assets of the individual
partners in the proportion of their respective interests in
the partnership." The intention of Congress that the
partnership assets shall be first applied to the satisfaction
'of the partnership debts, and that only the interests of
the partners in the surplus remaining after the payment
of partnership debts shall be applied in satisfaction of
their individual debts, is plain.
It is urged, however, on the authority of United States
v. Herron, 20 Wall. 251, 255, and other cases, that as
the United States is. not named in this section of the
Bankruptcy Act it is not bound by the rule for marshalling assets thereby established. But, however this may
be, it is clear that, independently of the provisions of this
,section, the priority of payment of taxes given the United
States by § 64(a) extends only to the bankrupt's share
in the'surplus of the assets of a partnership of which he
is a member. This follows from the decision in United
States v,Hack, 8 Pet. 271, 275, a case arising under the
Act of March 2, 1799,1 providing that if the maker of any
bond given to the United States for the payment of duties became insolvent or committed an act of bankruptcy,
the debt due the United States on such bond should be
first satisfied. The maker of such a bond had become
insolvent.' He had no individual property, and the assets of an insolvent partnership of which he'was a member, were insufficient to pay the partnership creditors. It
was held, on these facts, that the United States was not
entitled to priority of satisfaction out of the partnership assets, since the Act merely gave it priority of pay13 Laws, U. S.' 136, 197; 1 Stat. 627, 676, c. 20, § 65.

UNITED STATES v. YAUFMAN.
408

Opinion of the Court.

ment out of the property of its debtor, and the rule was
too well settled to be questioned that his interest in the
partnership property.was his share in the surplus after
the partnership debts were paid, and that such surplus
only was liable for his separate debts. To the same effect
is United States v. Evans, Crabbe, 60, 25 Fed. Cas. 1033,
a case arising under the'same Act. These decisions are
directly applicable to § 3466 of the Revised Statuteson which the United States relies-which incorporated
the provisions of the Act of 1799 and similar Acts of
August. 4, 1790, and March 3, 1797, in the general provision that whenever any person indebted to the United
States is insolvent, the debts due to the United States
shall be first satisfied, and that this priority shall extend
to cases in which an act of bankruptcy is committed.
And in so far as this ,section, under the rule stated in
Guarantee Co.v. Title Guaranty Co., 224 U. S.152, may
now be applicable in bankruptcy proceedings, it must be
held that any priority of payment to which the United
States is entitled for a debt due it from an individual
partner, extends only to his share in the surplus of the
partnership assets.
There is no conflict between the decisions in these cases
and in Lewis v. United States, 92 U. S. 618, 624, and
In re Strassburger, 4 Woods 557, 23 Fed Gas. 224, on
which the United States relies. In the Lewis Case the
members of the firm of Jay Cooke & Co. had been adjudicated bankrupts, and a trustee had been appointed
who held their individual assets and those of the firm
as well. This firm was not indebted to the United States,
but another firm, of which-several of the bankrupts were
members, was so indebted. On these facts it was held
that the bankrupt members of such other firm, as to its
indebtedness, stood to the United States in the relation
of " individual debtors," and that under the priority given
to debts due the United States by § 3466 of the Revised

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Statutes, recognized and reaffirmed in § 28 of the Bankruptcy Act of 1867, it was entitled, as a creditor of these
individual bankrupts, to priority of payment out of their
individual estates. There was, however, no suggestion
that the United States as a creditor of these individual
bankrupts was entitled to priority of satisfaction out of
the partnership assets of Jay Cooke & Co. In.the Strassburger Case, Mr. Justice Bradley, sitting at circuit, while
explicitly recognizing the rule that where one member of
a 'firm is indebted to the United States, its priority extends only to his interest in the surplus of the partnership
assets, held that as the United States had a judgment
against both members of the firm, it was entitled to priority of payment thereof out of their joint property in
preference to their .joint creditors. Whether a correct
result was reached we need not inquire. And if to any
extent the reasoning in this case may be in conflict with
that in the Hack Case, it cannot be approved.
Nor is the contention of the United States strengthened
by the provision in § 3186 of the Revised Statutes, as
amended by the Act of March 4? 1913, c. 166, 37 Stat.
1016, that the amount due the United States from any
person as a tax shall be a lien on all property and rights
to property belonging to such person. To whatever extent this statute may be now applicable in a bankruptcy
proceeding, under its very terms the lien includes only
the property of the person owing the tax; and in the case
of a partner owing an individual tax, it extends only to
his interest in the surplus of the partnership property.
It results that in proceedings in bankruptcy against a
partnership the partnership assets must be first applied
to the payment of the partnership debts, and that the
United States is not entitled to any priority of payment
out of such assets for a tax due it from an individual
partner, except to the extent of the share of such partner,
if any, in the surplus remaining after the payment of the
partnership debts.

PRICE v. MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO'
408

415

Syllabus.

3. The United States also relies, independently of the
foregoing matters, upon the decision in Re Brezin (D. C.)
297 Fed. 300, 306, in which it was held that as the individual partners, instead of drawing out their distributive
shares of the income of-the partnership from year to year
had left a large portion thereof in the partnership business, the United States had a claim in -the nature of an
equitable lien for the collection of their individual income
taxes which it could follow into the partnership property.
Whether or not thiscasewas correctly decided on its peculiar facts, it has no application to either of the present
cases, in which no such facts appear.
The decre.e of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
_____ _____Afflmecl.

PRICE ET AL. v. MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 14.

Argued November 13, 14, 1923.-Decided March 2, 1925.'

The Oklahoma Enabling Act provided that sections 33 of the public
lands, theretofore reserved, should .-be apportioned and disposed
of as the legislature might prescribe;., that, where 'any of the lands
granted the State were valuable for minerals, they should not be
sold before January 1, 1915,"but might be leased for peridds not
exceeding five years' on royalties, providing that agricultural
lessees in possessiin should be reimbursed by the mining lessees
for damages done their interests by mining operations; that the
lands "if sold" might be appraised and sold at public sale, under
such regulations as the State might prescribe, the preference right
to purchase at the -highest bid being given the lessee- "at time of
such sale"--Held, that an agricultural lessee was not entitled
under the act to compel a sale of the land covered by his lease
in order that he might purchase it; and that the State was
authorized, finding the tract valuable for oil and gas, to execute
an oil and gas lease to other parties, subject to the surface rights
of the agricultural lessee. Act of June 16, 1906, §§ 8, 10, c. 3335,
34 Stat. 267. P. 421.
86 0kda. 105, affirmed.

