FORT SMITH SPELTER CO. v. GAS CO. 231
228

-Counsel

for Parties.

States in violation of'this Act.' For the reasons already
stated the appellant never has entered the-United States
within the meaning of the law, and is not properly de-scribed in the warrant as' found in the United States in
violation of the immigrant authorities.' Theoretically she
is in custody at the limit of the jurisdiction awaiting the
order of the authorities. It would be manifestly absurd
to hold that the five years run in favor of one held at
Ellis Island for deportation, and as we have said the position of the appellant is the same.
Order affirme4.
FORT SMITH SPELTER COMPANY v. CLEAR
CREEK OIL & GAS COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREM COURT OF THE STA

.OF ARKANSAS.

No. 266. Submitted January 28, 1925.--Decided March 2,1925.
Where a piivate gas company, empowered to become a public service
corporation, changed its status accordingly aild. exercised the
power of eminent domain soon after it had contracted to furnish
-future supplies of gas to a consumer, and thb face of the contract,
and attendant circumstances, showed that this change was in contemplation when the contract was made, held that an order of a
state commission allowing the company increased rates was not"
an unconstitutional impairment of the-contract.. P. 232.
161 Arkansas 12, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
which sustained an order of the State Corporation Commission allowing the defendant in error gas company to increase its rates. See 161 Ark. 12; 153 Id. 170; 148 Id. 260.

Mr. Tom M. Mehafy, Mr. James W. Mehaffy and Mr.
James S. Holt for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joseph M. Hil1 and Mr. Henry L. Fitzhugh for defendant in error. Mr. Thomas B. Pryor and Mr. Vincent
M. Miles were also on tie brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

MR. JusTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The -Clear Creek Oil & Gas Company, a corporation of
Arkansas, petitioned the Corporation Commission of the
State for an increase of rates for gas used by smelters
and the like. The Fort Smith Spelter Company objected
on the ground that it received the gas under a private
contract made by the Gas Company, when it was a private
corporation, with two men to whose rights the Spelter
Company had succeeded; and that therefore the contract
was not subject to the modification asked. The Commission increased the rate and after intermediate proceedigns the order of the Commission was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State. 161 Ark. 12; s. c. 153 Ark.
170; 148 Ark. 260. The case is brought here by writ of
error on the ground-that the order is a law impairing the
obligation of contracts. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.
v. Garrett, 231 U. S.298, 318.
The Supreme Court decided that the Gas Company had
power under the laws of the State to become a public service corporation but was not bound to do so. Soon after
the contract in question was made the Gas Company did
become such a corporation and as such exercised the power
of eminent domain. The Supreme Court held that if the
contract was made when the Company had not yet devoted itself to the public service still the instrument on its
face and also the circumstances showed that public service on the part of the Company was contemplated with
the consequence that the Company and all its contracts
would become subject to public regulation. We see no
sufficient reason for disturbing this finding. As was said
below, the fact that the gas was to -be delivered at Fort
Smith, eighteen ,to twenty miles from the gas field specified in the agreement, showed that a pipe line would be
necessary, which in the ordinary course of events would
require the exercise of eminent domain. The gas field

SMALL CO. v. AM. SUGAR REF. CO.
231

233

Syllabus.

was large and additions were agreed for. The contractors
were entitled to call for one hundred and fifty million
cubic feet of gas for each thirty days, with a possible 'extension up to three hundred million. They were given
the 'first call' upon the Company's gas supplies and it
was agreed that if the Company should sell gas to consumers, except churches, schools, hospitals, or charitable
institutions, at a, rate less than that fixed by the contract
there should be a corresponding reduction. Everything
in short pointed to a very extensive enterprise which
hardly would be possible without the power incident to
this public service under the laws of the State. It would
be most unusual, as all know, for such a Company to
attempt to work in any other way. It already had franchises in several towns and cities to supply gas.
Judgment affirmed.
A. B. SMALL COMPANY v. AMERICAN SUGAR
REFINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 101.

Argued October 22, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.

1. Written orders for goods, addressed to a sugar refiner, and written
acceptances by the latter, compared and construed, in the light
of the parties' conduct, and held free from variances alleged to
prevent their forming completed contracts. P. 235.
2. In construing a typewritten document, a mistake of the typist by
transferring the concluding clause of one sentence to the beginning of the next, thus altering the literal meaning, may be corrected to conform to the context and the sense of the whole and to

the conduct of the parties. P. 236.
3. Section 4 of the Act of August 10, 1917, amended October 22,
1919, known as the Lever Act, which provides that it shall be
"unlawful for any person wilfully . . . to make any unjust or
unreasonable . . . charge in . .
dealing in or with any
necessaries," or to agree with another "to exact excessive prices for

