LEWIS v. ROBERTS.

467

Syllabus.

462

United States except when it is granted, the ruling might
have been correct. Btit this suit is against a corporation
of the State of Washington, brought originally in a Court
of Oregon to enforce .a supposed liability in contract.
Even if a statute of the United States created a bar, it
would be unusual if the act went-to the jurisdiction rather
than to the merits, Fauntleroyv. Lum, 210 U. S. 230, 235;
and if the statute went further it would be more likely to
exclude jurisdiction in all other Courts rather than merely
in Courts of the United States as such. If the statute excluded jurisdiction in State as well as United States Courts
the case could not be certified under § 238 of the Judicial
Code. Fore River Shipbuilding Co. v. Hagg, 219 U. S.
175, 178. But the Dent Act does not contemplate suits
against corporations in the Court of Claims, and we. perceive no ground for the ruling as certified. It well may
be that the Court was right in deciding that the allegations were not sufficient to justify a suit against the corporation, and our judgment is without prejudice to a
judgment dismissing the .case upon the merits. But it
was error to decide that there was a want of jurisdiction
and therefore the judgment must be reversed.
Judgment reversed.

LEWIS v. ROBERTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE" CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TH3.
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 284.

Argued January 29, 1925.-Decided March 16, 1925.

Under § 63a of the Bankruptcy-Act, including among provable
.
"(1) a fixed liability, as evraenced by a judgment
lutely owing at the time of the filing of the petition .
judgment founded on a tort (personal injuries caused by

gence) is a provable claim. P 468.
294 Fed. 171, reversed.

debts
abso. 'Y a
negli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court which confirmed
an order of a referee in bankruptcy disallowing the peti-

tioner's claim.
Mr. H. L. Black for petitioner.
No appearance for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE' SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioner, Lewis, recovered a judgment against
the Montevallo Mining Company for personal injuries
caused by its negligence. The Company was thereafter
adjudicated a bankrupt in the Northern District of Alabama. Lewis filed in the bankruptcy proceeding a proof
of claim upon the judgment. The District Court confirmed an order of the referee disallowing this claim, upon
the ground that a judgment founded upon a tort was not
provable in bankruptcy. This decree was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 294 Fed. 171. The writ of
certiorari was then granted. 264 U. S. 578. '
This decision is in conflict with an unbroken line of decisions in other Circuit Courts of Appeals and in the District Cdurts. Re New York Tunnel qd. (C. C. A.), 159
Fed. 688, 690; Moore v. Douglas (C. C. A.), 230 Fed. 399,
401; Re Putnam .(D. C.), 193 Fed. 464, 468. And see
Re Lorde (D. C.), 144 Fed. 320; Ex parte Margiasso
(D. C.), 242 Fed. 990; In re Madigan (D. C.), 254 -Fed.
221.
We think these prior decisions were correct.
Section 63a of the Bankruptcy Act,1 entitled "Debts
which may be Proved," provides that: "Debts of the
-bankrupt may be proved and allowed against his estate
which are (1) a fixed liability, as evidenced by a judg1

Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat. 544.

LEWIS v. ROBERTS.
467

469

Opinion of the Court.

ment . .
absolutely owing at the time of the filing
of the petition. .
Section 1, (11) declares that
the word "debt" as used in the'Act shall, unless inconsistent with the context, be construed to include "any
debt, demand, or claim provable in bankruptcy."
It is clear that a judgment for tort is provable under'
the express provisions 'of § 63a(1). The language is
broad and unqualified. It includes "a fixed liability"
evidenced by a judgment ex delicto as well as by a judgment ex contractu, and makes the one as well as the other
a provable "debt." There is nothing in the language or
in the context which suggests its limitation to judgments
founded on debts or warrants the reading in of such a
limitation.
This conclusion is confirmed by a consideration of other
provisions of the Act. By § 17, as originally enacted, it
was provided that: "A discharge in bankruptcy shall release a bankrupt from all his provable debts, except such
as . . . (2) are judgments in actions for fraud, or
obtaining property by false pretenses or false representations, or for wilful and malicious injuries to the person or
This express exception of cerproperty of another." '
tain .judgments for torts from the "provable debts" released by a discharge, plainly indicates that Congress understood that under § 63a judgments for torts were
"provable debts ", and Is strongly persuasive as a const.ruction of that section. "
Furthermore, if a judgment for tort is not a provable
claim in bankruptcy under § 63a, it could not, under
§ 1, (11), be considered in determining whether one
against whom an involuntary petition has been filed, is
insolvent within the meaning of § 1, (15), providing that
.

."

-By the amendments of 1903 and 1917 the word "judgments" iii
clause 2 was changed to "liabilities ", and other changes were made
which are not here material. 32 Stat. 797, c. 487, § 5; 39 Stat. 999,
c. 153.

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court..

267 U. S.

"a person shall be deemed insolvent . . . whenever
the aggregate of his property . . . shall not
be sufficient in amount to pay his debts." *he result of
this would be that a person having property in excess of
his other debts could not be adjudged an involuntary
bankrupt under § 3b of the Act, although owing judgments for tort exceeding the amount of his property.
Clearly Congress did not intend so anomalous a result.
The trustee contends, however, that despite the broad
language of § 63a(1), the decision in Wetmore v. Markoe,
196 U. S. 68, necessarily leads to the conclusion tliat only
judgments founded in debt are provable claims. It was
there held that under § 17 of the Act the arrears of alimony previously awarded to the wife of the bankrupt for
the support of herself and their minor children under a
final decree of absolute divorce was not a provable debt
which was released by the bankrupt's discharge. The
ground of the decision was that the court could look into
the proceedings to determine the nature of the liability
which had been reduced to judgment; that a decree
awarding alimony was not in any just sense a debt which
had been put into the form-of a judgment, but rather the
legal means of enforcing the obligation of the husband to
support his wife and children which was imposed upon
him by the policy of the law; and that it could not be
presumed, in the absence of a direct enactment, that Congress intended that the Bankruptcy Act should be made
an instrument by which. the wife and children should be
deprived of the support which it was the purpose of the
law to enforce. It is clear that this decision rested on
the peculiar and exceptional nature of a decree for ali-.
mony. There was no suggestion in the opinion that an
ordinary claim ex deticto that had been previously reduced
to judgment was not a provable debt; and we think that
its reasoning neither leads to nor warrants such a concIusion.

UNITED STATES v. LORILLARD -CO.

-471

Counsel for Parties.

467

Nor is there anything to support this conclusion in
Schall v. Camors, 251 U. S. 239, which dealt solely with
unliquidated claims arising in tort, not previously reduced
to judgment, and held merely that such unliquidated
claims, not being incdudedin the enumeration of provable debts under § 63a, could not be liquidated and proven
under the provisions of § 63b."
The decrees of the District Court and of the Circuit
Court of Appeal are reversed, and the cause is remanded
to the District. Court for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
UNITED STATES v. P. LORILLARD COVIPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 319.

Argued March 13, 1925.-Decided March 23, 1925.

By Rev. Stats. § 3386, as amended, a drawback on tobacco, etc.,

- subsequently

exported, on which the tax has been paid by affixizg stamps before removal from the factory, is allowed "equal in
amount to the value of the stamps found to have been so affixed."
Held applicable to an additional tax on cigarettes imposed by the Act
of February 24, 1919, payment of which would have been treated
in practice hs evidenced by the stamps already on the goods, if they
had not been removed, but which, in view of their removal, took
the form of a "floor tax." C. 18, Title VII, §§ 700, 702, 40 Stat.
1057, 1116. P. 473.
58 Ct. Cis. 541, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Court of Claims allow-

ing recovery, by way of drawback, of taxes on cigarettes,
which were exported.
Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, for the United States.. Mr: Solicitor General
Beck, Mr. Assistant Attorney General Lovett, Mr. Nelson
T. Hartson,Solicitor of Internal Revenue, and Mr. Robert
H. Littleton, were on the brief.

