248

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

What we have just said explains why the testimony
offered respecting the state of the market at Macon in
October and November, before the plaintiff took possession under the lien, became immaterial.
Judgment affirmed.

A. B. SMALL COMPANY v. LAMBORN & COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITRED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHIE R
DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

*No. 100. Argued October 21, 22, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. Contracts for the sale of sugar considered and held free from the
objection that they made delivery optional with the seller and
therefore lacked mutuality. P. 250.
2. In an action by the seller on an intrastate contract for the sale
and delivery of gbods owned by the seller and title to which passed
to the buyer unrestricted under the contract, the buyer can not
defend upon the ground that the seller was party to a combination
to manipulate interstate trade in goods of that kind in violation
of the Anti-Trust Act and made the contract during the life of the
combination and in conformity with standards sanctioned by it.
It is only when the invalidity is inherent in the contract itself
that the Act may be interposed as a defense to it. P. 251.
3. Defenses based on §§ 4, 5 and 6 of the Lever Act, held insufficient
on grounds stated in Small (o. v. Am. Sugar Co. ante, 233. P. 252.
4. The duty of a seller of goods, in reselling on account of the buyer,
is to sell fairly in a reasonably diligent effort to obtain a good price;
the test is not whether he got the highest possible. price or as much
as others got in particular instances. P. 253.
5. Evidence of particular sales held rightly rejected in the circumstances. Id.
6. Where the evidence is undisputed, or of such conclusive character
that if a verdict were returned for one party, whether plaintiff or
defendant, it would have to be set aside in the exercise of a sound*
judicial discretion, a verdict should be directed for the other party.
P. 254.
7. The view that a scintilla or modicum of conflicting evidence, irrespective of the character and measure of that to which it is opposed, necessarily requires a submission to the jury, has met with
express disapproval by this Court and by many others. Id.

SMALL CO. v. LAMBORN & CO.
248

Qpinion of the Court.

8. Evidence held to establish conclusively that resales of goods, made
by the vendor, were made fairly and within a reasonable time.

P. 254.
Affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Distrfct Court in favor of

the plaintiff, Lamborn & Co., in an action brought to recover. the difference between the contract price of sugar
sold by plaintiff to defendant, and the amount obtained
.by the plaintiff on resale, the defendant having refused to
accept delivery.
Mr. Edgar Watkins, with whom Mr. Frederick T.
Saussy, Mr. Mac Asbill and Mr. Horace Russell were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error..
Mr. Orville A. Park, with whom Mr. Archibald B.
Lovett was on the brief; for defendant in error.
MA. Jusnc Vx
the Court.

DwAIxTR delivered the opinion of

On April 30 and May 7, 1920, the parties to this case entered into contracts for the sale by one and purchase by
the other of 450 barrels of refined sugar, to be shipped by
the seller from a refinery at Port Wentworth, Georgia, to
the buyer at Macon, in the sameState, between July 15,
and October 1. Late in July, 150 barrels were shipped,
accepted and paid for. About that time the market price
began to decline and continued downward for the rest of
the year. Late in August the seller shipped 150 barrels
more, but when it reached Macon the buyer' refused to
accept it, suggested that it be stored "for the benefit of
whom it may concern," which was done, and notified the
seller that any further shipment would be similarly refused. Correspondence followed in which the seller
sought to persuade the buyer to adhere to the contracts.
Late in September, before the expiration of the time for
completing delivery, the seller notified the buyer that, if

-250

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

the refusal to conform to the contracts was continued, the
remaining 300 barrels, which included' the 150 stored at
Macon, -wouldbe resold for the account of the buyer and
the latter would be held for the difference between the
contract price and what was realized on the resale. The
buyer persisted in the refusal and the sugar was resold.
This action was brought. by the seller to recover from
the buyer the difference between the contract price and
the amount obtained on the resale. In the District Court
a verdict and judgment were given to the seller; and the
buyer brought the case here on direct writ of error, a constitutional question being involved.
One defense interposed by the answer was that the contracts were wanting in mutuality and therefore void. A
demurrer to the defense was sustained, and this is assigned as error. Two clauses in the contracts are cited as
making delivery optional with the seller, and therefore
showing a want of mutuality. But in our opinion the
clauses ake not open to that constructio4. The contracts,
signed by both parties, evidenced an agreement by the
seller to deliver the sugar within a designated period at a
fixed price, as well as an agreement by the buyer to take
the sugar and to pay the price. They contemplated that
the buyer might be accorded the privilege of calling for
special deliveries, known as "withdrawals," during the
prescribed period, if the seller was in a position reasonably to -make them. And they contained alternative
"terms" of payment-" Cash before delivery less 2%, or
cash in seven days less 2%." The clauses in question then
followed. One was, "Terms and withdrawal subject to
Read
the approval of the seller's credit department:'
sugar
trade,
practices
in
the
qf
established
in the light
this clause meant that, when a shipment was made, the
seller's credit department was to elect which of the alternative terms of payment should apply, and also that, if
the buyer called .for special deliveries, known as "with-

SMALL CO.. v. LAMBORN & CO.
248

251

Opinion of the Court.

drakvals," hat department was to determine whether suck
deliveries reasonably could be made and was to approve or
disapprove them accordingly. The clause was essentially
subsidiary and entirely consistent with the seller's definite
agreement to make delivery within the period prescribed.
The other clause was to the effect that, "ifthe supply of
raw material of the refinery manufacturing the sugar '
should be interrupted by war conditions, embargoes,
strikes, or other like cause, and if delivery was thereby prevented, the seller should not be responsible" There is
nothing in this clause which affords any basis for saying
that delivery was to be optional with the seller. On-the
contrary, it recognizes that he was obligating himself to
make delivery. Its evident and only purpose was to re-.
lieve him from liability in the. event that performance of
the obligationwas prevented by particular circumstances,
in their nature beyond his control. It is idle to suggest,
as was done in argument, that the clause would permit him
to avoid delivery by merely selecting a refinery which by
reason of war conditions, embargoes or strikes was already
cut off -from a supply of raw material. That would not
be within either the letter or the spirit of the clause, but
would be a palpable fraud and unavailing. Slater v.,
Savannah Sugar Refining Corporation,28 Ga. App. 280,
284.
The answer set up a special defense based on the AntiTrust Act of July 2, 1890, Z'647, 26 Stat. 209, prohibiting
restraints and monopolies in interstate and foreign commerce. A demurrer to the defense was sustained and the
ruling is assigned as error. But it was plainly right. In
the first place, the contracts pertained only to intrastate
commerce. They were negotiated in Georgia; the. sugar
was to be delivered from a refinery at Port Wentwortl and
shipped to Macon, both in Georgia; and no factywere
alleged showing that interstate or foreign commerce wasf

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

affected. In the next place, and independently of the
character of commerce involved, it was not shown that the
contracts were in themselves invalid under the Anti-Trust
Act, but only that they were collateral to a combination
prohibited by it. In substance, the defense was that the
seller and others had entered into a combination to manipulate interstate trade in refined sugar with a view to
increasing the price; that the contracts were made during
the life of the combination; and that the seller conformed
the terms of sale to standards sanctioned by the combination. There was no allegation that it was not the owner
of the sugar; nor any allegation that the buyer was a party
to the combination or other than a stranger to it. The
contracts disclosed the full transaction between the seller
and buyer and contemplated that the sale should pass the
title without any restriction on the right of the buyer
to resell as it might choose. As has been pointed out
in prior cases, there is nothing in the Anti-Trust Act which
invalidates such a collateral contract or relieves the buyer
,from his obligation under it. Connolly v. Union Sewer
'PipeCo., 184 U. S. 540, 550-552; Continental Wall Paper
Co. v. Voight, 212 U. S. 227, 257-259; Wilder Manufacturing Co. v. Corn ProductsCo., 236 U. S. 165, 177. It is
only where the invalidity is inherent in the contract that
the Act may be interposed as a. defense. With that exception the remedies which the Act provides for violations
of it are exclusive. Wilder Manufacturing Co. v. Corn
Products Co., supra, 172, 175; Paine Lumber Co. v. Neal,
244 U. S. 459, 471; Geddes v. Anaconda Mining Co., 254
U. S. 590, 593.
The answer also interposed a number of special defenses based on sections 4, 5 and 6 of the Lever Act, c.
53, 40 Stat. 276; c. 80, 41 Stat. 297, and on particular
orders and reg'ulations issued under it. These defenses
wereheld iiis,,ifficient on demurrer-some on the ground*
that a; part of the-Lever Act was in conflict with the due

SMALL* CO. v. LAMBORN & CO.
248

253

Opinion of the Court.

process of law clause of the Fifth Amendment. Some of
the defenses were like those considered and rejected in
Small Co. v. American Sugar Refining Company, just decided, ante, p. 233; and what was said of them there sufces
to dispose of them here.' The want of merit in the others
is so obvious that they do not call for special notice.
While the ruling on them is assigned as error, no attempt
to support them is made in the brief.
The sugar which was resold by the seller for the account
of the buyer consisted of 105,000 pounds--the 52,500
pounds. stored at Macon and a like quantity remaining at
the refinery. The market at that time was unsettled.
Wholesale dealers had an oversupply, and retail dealers
were buying cautiously and in small quantities. Nevertheless the prices realized on the resales equaled the full
market price for that general region for quantities such
as were resold. The 52,500 pounds stored at Macon was
resold October 11th and that at the refinery November 3d.
In both instances the defendant was advised of the price
offered by the intending purchaser, and was given an opportunity to secure a purchaser at a better price, but none
was brought in. A resale of the 52,500 pounds at the refinery was negotiated October 15th, but through some delay in transportation it was not consummated. Another
sale was then negotiated and was completed November 3d
at a little higher price.
The defendant offered to prove by wholesale dealers in
Macon the prices received by them on particular sales to
retail dealers about the time of the resales; but the testimony was rejected, and we are asked to say that this was
error. We think the ruling was right. The parficular
sales were in relatively small quantities, mahy of them
under 300 pounds, and had no probative bearing on the
fairness of the resales. The real question, as stated in
Small Co. v. American Sugar Refining Company, supra,
was whether the resales were fairly made in a reasonably

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

diligent effort to obtain a good price, and not whether the
plaintiff got the best possible price, or as much as others
got in particular instances. The unsettled state of the
market and the difference between selling small quantities
to retail dealers to satisfy immediate needs and selling
large quantities to wholesale dealers who had an oversupply made is necessary to confine the evidence to the
real question.
On the conclusion of the evidence the court directed a
verdict for the plaintiff; and the remaining question is
whether this was error. The defendant insists that it was,
because it took from the jury the question whether the
resales were made within a reasonable time. The period
for delivery under the contracts expired September 30th,
and the court ruled that the duty to resell 'within a reasonable time arose at that time, which was practically conceded. One of the resales was made October 11th. Another was negotiated October 15th but fell through, and
an effective one was made November 3d.
The rule for testing the direction of a verdict, as often
'has been held, is that where the evidence is undisputed,
or of such conclusive character that if a verdict were returned for one party, whether plaintiff or defendant, it
would have to be set aside in the exercise of a sound judicial discretion, a verdict may and should be directed foi
the other party. The view that a scintilla or modicum of
conflicting evidence, irrespective of the character and
measure of that to which it is opposed, necessarily requires
a submission to the jury has met with express disapproval
in this jurisdiction, as in many others. Improvement
Company v. Munson, 14 Wall. 442,448; Pleasantsv. Fant,
22 Wall. 116 122; Bowditch v. Boston, 101 U. S. 16, 18;
Anderson County Commissioners v. Beal, 113 U. S. 227,
241; Delaware,etc. R. R. Co. v. Converse, 139 U. S. 469,
472.
We are of opinion that the evidence as set forth in
the record conclusively established that the resales were

BROWNE v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO.
248

255

Statement of the Case.

made within a reasonable time. The state of the market
was such that it was difficult to make any sales; and the
quantities to be sold enhanced that difficulty and also the
need for care. The witnesses for the plaintiff described
with much detail the efforts which were made, and the
evidence as a whole reasonably admitted of no other conclusion than that the efforts were timely, well directed and
persistent. Many bids were received, but almost all were
so low that their acceptance would have meant a, great
sacrifice. The defendant was notified of the purpose to
resell, but made no effort to advance it in point of time or
to bring in a purchaser at an acceptable price. Considering the state of the market, the outcome appears to have
justified both the time and care taken by the plaintiff.
Judgment affirmed.
BROW 1E v. UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI, TO THE sUPREF,

cOURT

OF THE STATE

OF

KANSAS.

No. 194. Argued January 19, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.
A purchaser of interstate shipments of grain sued the carrier for
damages alleged to have resulted from the falsity of dates of
original shipment as recited in substituted order bills of lading
issued by the carrier's agent, and the state court. sustained the
carrier's defenses, partly upon the ground that such bills of lading
were not" strictly negotiable under the Federal Bill of Lading Act,
as contended by the plaintiff, and partly upon other and nonfederal grounds. Held that, as the latter grounds were substantial

and broad enough to sustain the judgment, the judgment should
be affirmed without considering the federal question.
113 Kans. 726, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Kansas which sustained a judgment for the Railroad
Company in an action by Browne for damages alleged

