42

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

Missouri v. Iowa, supra, p. 679; Indiana v. Kentucky,
136 U. S. 479, 519; Oklahoma v. Texas, 260 U. S. 606, 640.
The parties may-submit within thirty days the form
of a decree to carry these conclusions into effect.
Bill dismissed and decree directed under cross-bill.

SWISS NATIONAL INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED v. THOMAS W. MILLER, AS ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, AND FRANK WHITE, AS
TREASURER OF THE UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 132.

Argued November 18, 1924.-Decided February 2, 1925.

1. Where a corporation was an "enemy" within the definition of
the Trading with the Enemy Act because doing business in Germany, the enemy status of its property then seized in this country
was not changed by a subsequent cessation of such business.
P. 44.
2. The fact that an enemy corporation ceased to be an enemy when
the war was ended by the Joint Resolution of July 2, 1921, did not
entitle it to a return of its seized property; for, by ยง 12 of the
Trading with the Enemy Act, such claims were to be settled by
future direction of Congress. Id.
3. Clause 1 of ยง 9-b of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended
June 5, 1920, c. 241, 41 Stat. 977, which provides for return of
seized enemy property whose owner was and' remains a "citizen
or subject" of a nation other than Germany, Austria, Hungary or
Austria Hungary, cannot be construed as including corporations.
So held in view of the use of "citizen or subject" in other clauses
of the section relating only to natural persons, and more particularly because the 6th clause of the same section makes a special
classification of partnerships, associations and corporatiQns, allowing return of property if they were and remain entirely owned
by subjects qr citizens of nations other than those above mentioned. P. 45.
4. Whether the terms "citizen or subject" are broad enough to
include corporations depends upon the intent to be gathered from
the legislation in which they occur. P. 46.

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
Opinion of the Court.

42

5. Clause 11 of ยง 9-b of the Trading with the Enemy Act, added
by the amendment of March 4, 1923, c. 285, 42 Stat. 1511, amounts
to a legislative construction of clause 1, as above construed. P. 48.
53 App. D. C. 173 (289 Fed. 571) affirmed.

AppEAL from a decree of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia affrming a decree of the Supreme
Court of the District which dismissed the appellant's bill
against the Alien Property Custodian and the Treasurer
of the United States, to recover securities seized and held
under the Trading with the Enemy Act.
Mr. Hoke Smith, for appelldfit.
Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE, TAFr

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia under Section 250 of the Judicial
Code.
The Swiss National Insurance Company filed a bill in
equity against the Alien Property Custodian aad the
Treasurer of the United States in the Supreme Court of
the District to recover securities to the value of about one
million dollars. These it had before the War deposited
in the various state treasuries because required by the
state laws as a condition of doing insurance therein. The
Alien Property Custodian had seized them in November,
1918, as property of an enemy, under the definition of
Section 2, par. (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act,
approved October 6, 1917, c. 106,40 Stat. L. 411, that the
word. "enemy" should be deemed to mean and include
for the purpose of the Act "any ...

corporations incor-

porated within any country other than the United States
and doing business within" the "territory (including

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

that occupied by the military and naval forces) of any
nation with which the United States is at war." The
plaintiff's petition admitted that at the time of the seizure
the plaintiff was doing business in Germany, and was then
an enemy of the United States under the definition, and
that the seizure was lawful. It is further conceded in
argument that the stock of the plaintiff corporation was
largely held by Germans, and a failure to aver the contrary in the petition makes this fact a part of the case on
the motion of defendants to dismiss the bill.
The grounds stated in the bill for its recovery of the
securities were threefold-first, that since the seizure the
company had ceased to do business in Germany; second,
that the war had been officially declared ended, and, third,
that by virtue of the amendment of the Trading with the
Enemy Act, approved June 5, 1920, c. 241, 41 Stat. 977,
the plaintiff became expressly entitled to the recovery
sought.
The motion of defendants was granted, and the bill
dismissed. The decree of the District Supreme Court
was affirmed by the District Court of Appeals.
The first contention that because the company had
ceased to do business in Germany after the- seizure the
Alien Property Custodian lost his right to continue to
hold the property, can not be sustained. A change like
this could not take away the status of the seized property
as enemy property. The withdrawal from business in
Germany might well involve a transfer of something of
value from the plaintiff to enemy citizens or subjects and
strengthen the enemy resources.
Second, it is argued that as the War ended by Joint
Resolution of July 2, 1921, 42 Stat. 105, the plaintiff
thereby ceased to be an enemy and was entitled to a
return of its property without express legislation giving
such a right. It is clear from Section 12 of the Trading
with the Enemy Act, 40 Stat. 411, 424, that Congress did

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
42

Opinion of the Court.

not intend that such a right should exist. One clause of
that section provides:
"After the end of the War any claim of any enemy or
of an ally of enemy to any money or other property
received and held by the Alien Property Custodian or
deposited in the United States Treasury, shall be settled
as Congress shall direct."
The argument for the appellant is that when the War
ended, it.ceased to be an enemy and so the words quoted
do not apply to it. This is an impossible construction of
the section. After the end of the War, there could be no
enemy in the sense in which the appellant argues. The
word !' enemy" used in Section 12 of 6ourse refers to the
-person who or corporation which fulfilled the definition
of *an enemy during the war. It follows that the right
of the appellant to recover its property must depend on
the Congressional direction subsequent to the original
Act. This brings us then to the amendment to the Trading with the Enemy Act of June 5, 1920, 41 Stat.-977.
The third argument of the appellant is then directed
to the question whether the appellant comes within the
classes of enemies given the right to recover their property
from the Alien Property Custodian by the 1920 amendment. Section 9, paragraph a, of that amendment provides for a return by order of the President to a person
not an enemy claiming an interest in property seized by
the Custodian, and, failing such order, allows a suit in
equity to recover the property or money due. Par. b
gives a similar opportunity to anyone who is the owner
of property seized and held by the Custodian, if the President finds the owner to have been in one of eight defined
classes at the time of the seizure. The first class among
these is:
"A citizen or subject of any nation or State or free
city other than Germany or Austria or Hungary or
Austria-Hungary, and [who] is at the time of the return

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

of such money or other property hereunder a citizen or
subject of any such nation or State or free city"
The sixth class is this:
"A partnership, association, or other unincorporated
body of individuals outside the United States, or a corporation incorporated within any country other than the
United States, and [which] was entirely owned at such
time by subjects or citizens of' nations, States or free
cities other than Germany or Austria or Hungary or
Austria-Hungary and isso owned at the time of the return
of its money or other property hereunder."
It is urged for appellant that it is a citizen of Switzerland and is thus included with those favored in the first
class. Section 2 of the original Trading with the Enemy
Act approved October 6, 1917, c. 106, 40 Stat. 411, and
unrepealed provides that: "The word 'person' as used
herein shall be deemed to mean an individual, partnership, association, company or other unincorporated body
of individuals, or corporation or body politic" and the
word "enemy" is declared to be equally inclusive. But
there is in the Act and its amendments no such definition
of the words citizen or subject. The term citizen or
subject may be broad enough to include corporations of
the country whose citizens are in question. Paul v. Virginia,8 Wall. 168; Seloverv. Walsh, 226 U. S.112; Western Turf Association v. Greensburg, 204 U. S. 359.
Whether it is so inclusive in any particular instance depends upon the intent to be gathered from the context
and the general purpose of the whole legislation in which
it occurs. United States v. Northwestern Express Co.,,
164 U. S. 686, 689. The first clause of paragraph b refers
to a citizen or subject who may change his nationality
which could hardly refer to a corporation. The second
and third clauses describing the 2nd. and 3rd classes refer
to married women and obviously the term citizen or subject in them includes only natural persons. Clause 4

SWISS INSURANCE CO v. MILLER.
42

47

Opinion of the Court.

concerns a citizen or subject of Germany accredited to
the United States as the wife or child of a diplomatic
officer, of course, a natural person. Clause 5 describes a
citizen or subject transferred after arrest to the custody
of the War Department evidently only a natural person.
In clause 6, the subjects or citizens therein referred to
are the owners of partnerships, associations or incorporated bodies indicating that they, too, are natural persons.
The cotext would, therefore, seem to show that the words
are not used in the paragraph to include more than individuals. Where, as in the amendment to Section 9
of the year before, July 11, 1919, c. 6, 41 Stat. 35, a proviso was intended to include, individuals and corporations, the word persons is used in connection with the
words citizens or subjects and thus no doubt is left of
the inclusive effect of the, proviso. The foregoing inferences as to the narrowerscope of the term citizen in
paragraph b are not conclusive though they are per-

suasive.
But the strongest and to us the"convincing argument
that the language of clause 1 of par. b was not intended
to-include corporations is the especial mention of partnerships, associations and corporations in clause 6 as
a different class from that of clause 1 of the same section.
That class is partnerships, associations, corporations, who
were enemies under the Act because of the business, they
did in Germany or Austria-Hungary, but whose owners
as partners, associates or stockholders were not enemies
either at the time of the sequestration or at the time of
the return.
It was evidently intended by Section 9-b not to allow
any individual enemies to be favored unless they as women only acquired their status as enemies because of
marriage to a male enemy, or unless they were diplomatic representatives of the enemy countries, or members
of their families, and the property involved was within

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
. Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S

the United States because of their diplomatic service, or
unless they were enemies interned in the United States
during the War and were living in the United States at
the time of the return of their property. There was an
obvious purpose to exclude all other individual Germans
or Austrians from the privileges of the section and it was
to carry out this exclusion that clause 6 was drafted to
cover especially the subject of corporations, partnerships
and associations in which Germans or Austrians should
have no interest. It was of a piece with the subsequent
provision of the 5th section of the Joint Resolution of
July 2, 1921, ending the War (42 Stat. 105, 106, c. 40),
designed to retain in custody the property of all German
and Austrian nationals deposited with the Custodian. in
order to aid this country-and its nationals in collecting
claims for losses against the two enemy governments.
The design was frther subsequently revealed, though
not so closely adhered to, in clause 11, added to Section
9, par. b, by the second amendment to the Trading with
the Enemy Act (42'Stat. 1511, 1513, c. 285), by which
property could be returned to non-German or non-Austrian corporations provided that Germans or Austrians
did not own fifty per cent. of the stock.
Clause 11 of the second amendment was in fact a legislative construction of clause 1 of par. b of Section 9 in
the amendment of 1920 as we construe it, because otherwise and according to the contention of the defendants, a
non-German or non-Austrian corporation though doing
business in Germany or Austria could, under clause I and
without clause 11, recover its property whatever its stock
ownership.
Had no clause 6 been inserted in the Act, possibly the
words citizens or subjects of clause 1 might have been
held to include corporations; but, with a specification of
them as a separate class, it would violate an obviously
sound rule to include them by construction in clause 1
also as citizens or subjects.

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
42

MCRnYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

Much has been said in respect to the intent of Congress
to be liberal in this series of acts as shown by the correspondence of the Attorney General and his subordinates
with the Congressional Committees; but nothing has been
called to our attention that seems to us to have real significance in respect to the exact point in this discussion.
In order to supply some reason or occasion for clause 6,
if clause 1 is to be held to include corporations as citizens
or subjects, it is suggested for appellants that the clause
was intended to cover German and Austrian corporations
entirely owned by citizens of the United States or of other
countries than Germany or Austria. We think this a far
fetched argument to explain the very general words of
this clause when such a purpose might have been easily
attained by ppecific provision -for such exceptional instances. Under the appellant's bonstruction of clause 6,
the improbable overlapping duplication of clause 1 and
clause 6 is so manifest that we think the construction must
be rejected. We concur, therefore, with the conclusion of
the Court of Appeals, and the District Supreme Court.
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE McKENNA participated in the considera,tion of this case and concurred in the opinion prior to his
resignation.
The separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS.
This cause requires interpretation of Section 9, Trading
with the Enemy Act, approved October 6, 1917, c. 106,
40 Stat. 411, 419, as amended by the Act of June 5, 1920,
c. 241, 41 Stat. 977, copied below.*
*

Sic. 9. (a) That any person not an enemy or ally of enemy'

claiming any interest, right, or title in any money or other property
which may have been conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or
paid to the Alien Property Custodian or seized by him hereunder and
held by him or by the Treasurer of the United States, or to whom

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
McREY. oLs,

J., dissenting.

267 U. S.

Section 2 of the original Act, which has remained unchanged, declares"The word 'person,' as used herein, shall be deemed to
mean an individual, partnership, association, company or
other unincorporated body of individuals, or corporation
or body politic; " and that the word "enemy" shall be
deemed to mean"(a) Any individual, partnership, or other body of individuals, of any nationality, resident within the territory
(including that occupied by the military and naval forces)
of any nation with which the United States is at war [or
an ally of such nation], or resident outside the United
any debt may be owing from an enemy or ally of enemy whose*
property or any part thereof shall have been conveyed, transferred,
assigned, delivered, or paid to the Alien Property Custodian or seized
by him hereunder and held by him or by the Treasurer of the
United States may file with" the said custodian a notice of his claim
under oath and in such form and containing such particulars as the
said custodian shall require; and the President, if application is made
therefor by the claimant, may order the payment, conveyance, transfer, assignment, or delivery to said claimant of the money or other
property so held by the Alien Property Custodian or by the Treasurer
of the United States, or of the interest therein to which the President
shall determine said claimant is entitled: Provided, That no such
order by the President shall bar any person from the prosecution of
any suit at law or in equity against the claimant to establish any
right, title, or interest which he may have in such money or other
property. If the President shall not so order within sixty days after
the filing of such application or if the claimant shall have filed the
notice as above required and shall have made no application to the
President, said claimant may, at any time before the expiration of
six months after the end of the war institute a suit in equity in the
Supreme Court of the ]istrict of Columbia or in the district court
of the United States for the district in which: such claimant resides,
or, if a corporation, where it has its principal place of business (to
which suit the Alien Property Custodian or the Treasurer of the
United States, as the case may be, shall be made a party defendant),
to establish the interest, right, title, or debt so claimed, and if so
established the court shall order the payment, conveyance, tranisfer,

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
42

MCIcPYNoLDS, J., dissenting.

States and doing business within such territory, and any
corporation incorporated within such territory of any nation with which the United States is at war [or an ally
of such nation] or incorporated within any country other
than the United States and doing business within such
territory. .
For many years appellant has been incorporated under
the laws of Switzerland. Prior to 1917 and continuously
thereafter until 1922 it did an insurance business in Germany. From 1910 until November 18, 1918, it carried on
the same business within several of our States, and as
security for its obligations deposited many domestic
assignment, or delivery, to said claimant of the money or other
property so held by the Alien Property Custodian or by the Treasurer
of thie United States or of the interest therein to which the court
shall determine said claimant is entitled. If suit shall be so instituted,
then such money or property shall be retained in the custody of the
Alien Property Custodian, or in the Treasury of the United States,
as provided in this Act, and until any final judgment or decree which
shall be entered in favor of the claimant shall be fully satisfied by
payment or conveyance, transfer, assignment, or delivery by the defendant, or by the Alien Property Custodian, or Treasurer of the
United States on order of the court, or until final judgment or decree
shall be entered against the claimant or suit otherwise terminated.
(b) In respect of all money or other property conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid to th6 Alien Property Custodian
or seized by him hereunder and held by him or'by the Treasurer
of the United States, if the President shall determine that the owner
thereof, at the time such money or other property was required to
be so conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or, paid to the Allen
Property Custodian or at the time when it was voluntarily delivered
to him or was seized by him was(1) A citizen or subject of any nation or SAte or free city other
than Germany or Austria or Hungary or Austria-Hungary, and is
at the time of the return of such money or other property hereunder
a citizen or subject of Any such nation or State or free city; or
(2) A woman who at the time of her niarriage was a subject or
citizen of a nation which has remained neutral in the war or of a
nation which was associated with the United States in the prosecu-

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opiion of the Court.

267 U. S.

bonds--a million dollars. On the latter date-a week
after the armistice-the Alien Property Custodian took
possession of these bonds, and either he or the Treasurer
of the United States now holds them. Claiming the sequestered securities or their proceeds under Section 9,
Subsection. (b), appellant began this proceeding in the
Supreme Court, District of Columbia, November 28, 1921.
That court held the corporation could not prevail because
subjects of Germany held some of its stock; and upon
motion dismissed the bill. The Court of Appeals affirmed
the decree. The corporation came within the term-" enemy" solely because of its business within Germany; but
tion of said war, and who prior to -April 6, 1917, intermarried with
a subject or citizen of Germany or Austria-Hungary and that the
money or other property concerned was not acquired by such woman
either directly or indirectly from any subject or citizen of Germany
or Austria-Hungary; or
(3) A woman who at the time of her marriage was a citizen of
the United States (said-citizenship having been acquired by birth in
the United States), and who prior to April 6, 1917, intermarried with
a subject or citizen of Germany or Austria-Hungary and that the
money 'or other property concerned was not acquired by such woman
either directly or indirectly from any subject or citizen of Germany
or Austria-Hungary; or
(4) A citizen or subject of Germany or Austria or Hungary or
Austria-Hungary and was, at the time of the severance of diplomatic
relations between the United States and such nations, respectively,
accredited to the United States as a diplomatic or consular officer of
any such nation, or the wife or minor child of such officer, and that
the money or other property concerned was within the territory of
the United States by reason of the service of such officer in such
capacity; or
(5) A citizen or subject of Germany or Austria-Hungary, who by
virtue of the provisions 'of sections 4067, 4068, 4069, and 4070 of the
Revised Statutes, and of the proclamations and regulations thereunder, was transferred, after arrest, into the custody of the War
Department of the United States for detention during the war and
is at the time of the returxi of his money or other property hereunder
living within the 'United States; or

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
42

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

it is admitted that enemy subjects owned and controlled a
majority of the capital stock. Apparently the sequestration was permissible-its propriety after cessation of hostilities is not for our determination.
As an incorporated citizen or subject of Switzerland
appellant claims to come within Paragraph (1) of the
amended Act"(1) A citizen or subject of any nation or State or free
city other than Germany or Austria or Hungary or
Austria-Hungary, and is at the time of the return of such
money or other property hereunder a citizen or subject
of any such nation or State or free- city."
(6) A partnership, association, or other unincorporated body of
individuals outside the United States, or a corporation incorporated
within any country other than the United States, and was entirely
owned at such time by subjects or citizens of nations, States, or
free cities other than Germany or Austria or Hungary or AustriaHungary and is so owned at the time of the return of its money or
other property hereunder; or
(7) The Government of Bulgaria or Turkey, or any political or
municipal subdivision thereof; or
(8) The Government of Germany or Austria or Hungary or Aus*tria-Hungary, and that the money or other property concerned was
the diplomntic or consular property, of such Government. [Or]
(9) An individual who was at such time a citizen or subject of
Germany, Abstria, Hungary, or Austria-Hungary, or who is mot a
citizen or subject of any nation, State, or free city, and that such
money or other property, or the proceeds thereof, if the same has
been converted, does not exceed in value the sum of $10,000, or
although exceeding in. value the sum of $10,000 is nevertheless susceptible of division, and the part thereof to be returned hereunder
does not exceed in value the sum of $10,000: Provided, That an
individual shall not be entitled, under this paragraph, to the return
of any money or other property owned by a partnership, association,
unincorporated body of individuals, or corporation at the time it
was conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid to the Alien
Property Custodian, or seized by him hereunder; or
(10) A partnership, association, oth6r, unincorporated body of
individuals, or corporation, and that it is not otherwise entitled to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
McREYNoInS,

J., dissenting.

267 U. S.

On the other hand the insistence is that although the
words "citizen or subject" often include corporations ag
well as natural persons, this is not necessarily true but
depends always upon the intent disclosed by context and
other accompanying circumstances. Further, that although corporations would normally fall within the words
of Paragraph (1), without more, the contrary intent is
disclosed and they are excluded therefrom by the provisions touching certain corporations found in Paragraph (6)"A partnership, association, or other unincorporated
body of individuals outside the United States, or a
return of its money or other property, or any part thereof, under this
section, and that such money or other property, or the proceeds
thereof, if the same has been converted, does not exceed in value the
sum of $10,000, or although exceeding in value the sum of $10,000,
is nevertheless susceptible of division, and the part thereof to be
,returned hereunder does not exceed in value the sum of $10,000:
Provided, That no insurance partnership, association, or corporation,
against which any claim or claims may be filed by any.citizen of the
United States with the Alien Property Custodian within sixty days
after the time this paragraph takes effect, whether such claim appears
to be barred by the statute of limitations or not, shall be entitled to
avail itself of the provisions of this paragraph until such claim or
claims are satisfied; or
(11) A partnership, association, or other unincorporated body of
individuals, having its principal place of business within any country
other than Germany, Austria, Hungary, or Austria-Hungary, or a
corporation, organized or incorporated within any country other than
Germany, Austria, Hungary, or Austria-Hungary, and that the control
of,. or more than 50 per centum of the interests of voting power in,
any such partnership, association, other unincorporated body of individuals, or corporation, was at such time, and is at the time of the
return of any money or other property, vested in citizens or subjects
of nations, States, or free cities other than Germany, Austria, Hungary or Austria-Hungary: Provided, however, That this subsection
shall not affect any rights which any citizen or subject may have
under paragraph (1) of this subsection;Then the President, without any application being made therefor,
may order the payment, conveyance, transfer, nssignment, or delivery

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
42

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

corporation incorporated within any country other than
the United States, and was entirely owned at such time
by subjects or citizens of nations, States, or free cities
other than Germany or Austria or Hungary or AustriaHungary and is sa owned at the time of the return of its
money or other property hereunder."
Also, that the purpose to exclude corporations from Paragraph (1) is further accentuated by the legislative construction disclosed by Paragraph (11), adopted March
4. 1923, c. 285, 42 Stat. 1511, 1513"(11) A partnership, association, or other unincorporated body of individuals, having its principal place of
of such money or other property held by the Alien Property Custodian or by the Treasurer of the United States, or of the interest
therein to which the President shall determine such person entitled,
either to the said owner or to the person by whom said property was
conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid over to the Alien
Property Custodian:
Provided, That no person shall be deemed or held to be a citizen
or subject of Germany or Austria or Hungary or Austria-Hungary for
the purposes of this section, even though he was-such citizen or sub-'
ject at the time first specified in this subsection, if he has become or
shall become, ipso facto or through exercise of optioh, a citizen or
subject of any nation or State or free city other than Germany,
Austria, or Hungary, (first) under the terms of such treaties of peace
as have been or may be concluded subsequent to November 11, 1918,
between Germany or Austria or Hungary (of the one part) and the
United States and/or three or more of the following-named powers:
The British Empire, France, Italy, and Japan (of the other part),
or (second) under the terms of such treaties as have been or may be.
concluded in pursuance of the treaties of peace aforesaid between any
nation, State, or free city (of the one part) whose territories, in
whole or in part, on August 4, 1914, formed, a portion of the territory
of Germany or Austria-Hungary and the United States and/or three
or more of the following-named powers: The British Empire, France,
Italy, and Japan (of the other part). For the purposes of this
section any citizen or subject of a State or free city which at the time
of the proposed return of money or other property of such citizen or
subject hereunder forms a part of the territory of any one of the
following nations: Germany, Austria, or Hungary, shall be deemed

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
MCREY'NOLDS,

J., dissenting.

267 U. S.

business within any country other than Germany, Austria,
Hungary, or Austria-Hungary, or a corporation, organized
or incorporated within any country other than Germany,
Austria, Hungary, or Austria-Hungary, and that the control of, or more than 50 per centum of the interests or.
voting power in, any such partnership, association, other
unincorporated body of individuals, or corporation,, was
at such time, and is at the time of the return of any
money or other property, vested in citizens or subjects
of nations, States, or free cities other than Germany,
Austria, Hungary or Austria-Hungary: Provided, -however, That this subsection shall not affect any rights
which any citizen or subject may have under Paragraph
(1) of this subsection."
to be a citizen or subject of such nation. And the receipt of the said
owner or of the person by whom said property was conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid over to the Alien Property Custodian shall be a full acquittance and discharge of the Alien Property
Custodian or the Treasurer of the United States, as the case maybe,
and of the- United States in respect to all claims of all persons heretofore or hereafter claiming any right, title, or interest in said property, or compensation or damages arising from the capture of such
property by the President or the Alien Property Custodian: Provided
further, howaever, That except as herein provided no such action by
the President shall bar any person from the prosecution of any suit
at law or in equity to establish any right, title, or interest which he
may have therein.
(-) Any person whose property the President is authorized to
return under the provisions of subsection (b) hereof may file notice
of claim for the return of such property, as provided in subsection (a)
hereof, and thereafter may make application to the President for
allowance of such claim and/or may institute suit in equity to recover such property, as provided in said subsection, and with like
effect. The President or the court, as the case may be, may make
the same determinations with respept to 'citizenship and other
relevant" facts that the President is authorized to make under the
provisions of subsection (b) hereof.
(d) Whenever a person, deceased, would have been entitled, if
living, to the return of his money or other property hereunder, then.

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
42

McREYNOLDS,

J,, dissenting.

The proviso of Paragraph (1-1) sufficiently repels the
suggestion that it restricts Paragraph (1)--"This subsection [paragraph] shall not affect any rights which any
citizen or subject may have under Paragraph (1) of this
subsection."
I Reporting, June 21, 1917, (H. Rep. 85, 65th Cong., 1st
Sess.), the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign
Commerce recommended passage of the original Trading
with the Enemy.Act' and said"The chief objects of this bill are (1) to recognize and
apply concretely, subject to definite modifications, the
principle and practice of international law interdicting
trade in time of war, and (2) to conserve and utilize upon
his legal representative may proceed for the return of such property
as provided in subsection (a) hereof: Provided, however, That the
,President or the court, as the case may be, before granting such
relipf shall impose such conditions by way of security or otherwise,
as -he President or the court, respectively, shall deem sufficient to
insure that such legal representative will redeliver to the Alien Property Custodian such portion of the money or other property so received by him as shall be distributable to any person not eligible
as a claimant under subsections (a) or (c) hereof.
(e) No money or other property shall be returned nor any debt
allowed under this section to any person who is a citizen or subject
of any nation which was associated with the United States in the
prosecution of the war, unless such nation in like case extends reciprocal rights to citizens of the'United States; nor in any event
shall a debt be allowed under this section unless it was owing to and
owned by the claimait prior to October 6, 1917, and as to claimants
other than citizens of the United States unless it arose with reference'
to the money or other property held by the Alien Property Custodian or Treasurer of the United States hereunder.
(f) Except as herein provided, the money or other property conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid to the Alien Property'
Custodian, shall not be liable to lien, attachment, garnishment,
trustee process, or execution, or subject to any order or decree of
any court.
(g) This section shall not. apply, however, to money paid to the
Alien Property Custodian under section 10 hereof.

58

OCTOIBER TERM, 1924.
McREYNoms,

J., dissenting.

267 U. S.

a basis of practical justice enemy property found within
the jurisdiction of ,the United States. .....
Citizens
cannot be permitted directly or indirectly to augment
the material resources of the enemy by commercial intercourse, and the necessity for this interdiction is more
obvious today than at any period of the world's history.
Never were the industrial,, commercial and financial re.sources of belligerent nations so vital to the success of
,'war as now. 'It is -not extravagant. to affirm that the
effective organization of these resources is more likely to
determine the result of the present conflict than. armies
* and navies. Therefore, everything reasonably possible
should be done to prevent our enemy from reaping the
advantages of commercial transactions with the people
of the United States. To summarize, the purpose of
the bill is not to create new international rules or practices, but to define and mitigate them."
In a favorable report on the same measure, August 31,
1917, (S. Map. 113, 65th Cong., 1st-Sess), the Senate Committee on Commercesaid"The purpose of this bill is to mitigate the rules of
law which prohibit all intercourse between the citizens
of warring nations, and to permit, under careful safeguards and restrictions, certain kinds of business to be
cirried on. It also provides for the care and administration of the property and property rights of enemies and
their allies in this country pending the war. The spirit
of the Act 'is to permit such businems intercourse as may
be beneficial to citizens of this country, under rules and
regulations of the President, which' will prevent our
enemies and their allies from receiving any benefits therefrom until after the war closes, leaving to the courts and
to future action of Congress the adjustment of rights and
claims arising from such transactions. Under the old
rule warring 'nations did not respect the property rights
of their enemies, but a more enlightened opinion prevails

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
42

McREros, J., dissenting.

at the present time, and it is now thought to be entirely
proper to use the property of enemies without confiscating it; also to allow slich business as fire insurance,
issuance and use of patents, etc., to be carried on with
our enemies and their allies, provided that none of the
profits arising therefrom shall be sent out of this country
until the war ends."
The intent to conserve and utilize enemy property upon
a basis of practical justice and to prevent the owners from
receiving benefits therefrom until after the war, but without ultimate confiscation, is clear. And, where the words
permit, the statute and its amendments should be liberally interpreted to that end.
By executive orders the President vested certain wide
powers,. conferred upon him by the Trading with .the
Enemy Act, in the Alien Property Custodian; and that
officer diligently proceeded to sequestrate property which,
as he held, belonged to enemies. See Central Trust Co.
v. Garvan, 254 U. S.554, 567; Stoehr 'v. Wallace, 255
U. S. 239, 245; Commercial Trust Co.v. Miller, 262 U. S.
51, 56. Reporting to the President, February 22, 1919,
(Senate Doc., vol. 8, pp. 9, 13) the Custodian said"At the close of business on February 15, 1919, 35,400
reports of enemy property had been received. The property of each enemy person is treated in the office as a
trust and administered by an organization which is built
upon the general lines of a trust company. The number
of separate trusts now being administered amounts to
32,296 [at one time, it is said, they amounted to 50,000Senate Hearing, S. 3852, July 27, 1922, p. 21], and have
an aggregate value of $502,945,724.75. * About 9,000 of
these cases are covered by reports in which the administration has not yet reached the stage of valuation. When
the entire number of trusts reported shall have been
finally opened on the books and the readjustment of
values consequent upon appraisal shall have been corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

267 U. S.

pleted, it is safe to say that the total value of the enemy
property in the hands of the Alien Property Custodian
will reach $700,000,000....
".The legislative intent was plainly that all enemy property, concealed as well as disclosed, should be placed entirely beyond the control or influence of its former owners,
where it cannot eventually yield aid or comfort to the
enemy directly or indirectly. Until the peace terms are
finally signed and the ultimate disposition of enemy property determined by the act of Congress, it shall be the
firm purpose of the Alien Property Custodian to carry out
the will of the Congress in respect thereto. Neither litigation nor threat of litigation ought to be interposed to
stay that purpose."
During hostilities and thereafter he sequestered the
property of enemy subjects, of citizens of the United
States, of associated nations and of neutrals, found in the
Philippine Islands, the Hawaiian Islands, the Virgin
Islands, Porto Rico, and throughout continental United
States. It included practically all forms of tangible and
intangible assets--industrial plants, chemical and woolen
mills, steamship lines, banks, land and cattle companies,
salmon factories, mines of gold, silver and other metals,
corporate bonds and shares of stock, real estate, trusts
represented by securities, liquid assets, thousands of
patents (5700), trade-marks, prints, labels and copyrights, etc., etc. The individual items varied in value
from one dollar to thousands, even millions of dollars.
The enactment was novel, and gave rise to many troublesome questions of fact and law.
After the conclusion of hostilities insistent demands
were made for return of the property belonging to citizens
of the United States, of associated powers, of neutrals,
and of the states partly composed of territory detached
from Germany or Austria.
The Act, of July 11, 1919, c. 6, 41 Stat. 35, added to
Section 9 a proviso which gave right of recovery to sub-

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
42

61

McRnx oLDs, J., dissenting.

jects of associated nations whose property had been sequestrated solely because of residence within territory
occupied by enemy forces, e. g., Belgium and Northern
France. There were several hundred cases of French and
Belgian property taken, solely because the owners were
in such occupied territory. [H. Comm. Hearings 1920,
vol. 232-1, part 8, p. 11;] This amendment (copied in
the margin *) applied to "a person who was an enemy or
ally of enemy" and "is a citizen or subject of such associated nation." The words" citizen or subject" include
"person," and "person," .according to the statutory defihowever, That in respect of all property heretofore
determined by the President to have been held for, by, on account
of, or on behalf of, or for the benefit of a person who was an enemy
or ally of enemy, if the President, after further investigation, shall
determine that such person was an enemy or ally of enemy solely by
reason of residence in that portion of the territory of any nation
associated with the United States in the prosecution of the war
which -was occupied by the military or naval forces of Germany or
Austria-Hungary, or their allies, and that such person is a citizen or
subject of such associated nation, then ,the President, without any
application being made therefor, may order the payment, conveyance, transfer, assignment or delivery of such money or other property held by the Alien Property Custodian, or by the Treasurer of
the United States, or of the interest therein to which the President
shall determine such person entitled, either to the said enemy or to
the person by whom said property was conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered or paid over to the Alien Property Custodian. And
the receipt of the said enemy or of the person by whom said property was conveyed, transferred, assigned, -or delivered to the Alien
Property Custodian, shall be a full acquittance and discharge of the
Alien Property Custodian or the Treasurer of the United States as
the case may be, and of the United States in respect of all claims of
all persons heretofore or hereafter claiming any right, title, or interest in said property, or compensation or damages arising from the
capture of such property by the President or the Alien Property
Custodian: Provided further, however, That except as herein provided no such action by the President shall bar any person from the
prosecution of any suit at law or in equity to establish any right
title, or interest which he may have therein,
*Provided,

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
McRfotms, J., dissenting.

267 U. S.

nition, includes "corporation." The same meaning of
"citizen or subject" should be accepted wherever they
occur in the section.
March 31, 1920, the Attorney General advised the
House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce
(H. Rep. 1089, 66 Cong., 2nd Sess.)"The Secretary of State has written to me that this
Government has recognized that the provinces of Alsace
and Lorraine have now become a part of France and that,
in his opinion, the continued retention by the Alien Property Custodian of property of residents of these provinces
who have acquired French nationality under the Versailles treaty of peace cannot fail to have an unfavorable
effect upon the relations of the United States and France.
The Secretary of State expressed the view that the Trading with the Enemy Act should' be so amended -as to
allow the return of this property. He suggested that
I recommend to Congress an amendment to this effect.
"The Secretary of State also points out that this Government has recognized the Republics of Poland and
Czechoslovakia and the Kingdom of the Serbs, Croats
and Slovenes, and that for this Government to retain
the property of persons who are citizens of those countries and resident within their borders would have a
prejudicial effect upon the relations between the countries in question and the United States. The Secretary
of State's recommendation was that any amendment to
the Trading with the Enemy Act should be broad enough
to authorize the return of property belonging to citizens
of these countries. He also felt that the amendment
should cover the cases of residents of territory which may
be allotted, under treaties yet to become effective, to an
allied or associated power (as, for example, Trieste), as
well as territory which, under plebiscites to be held in
accordance with treaty provisions, may be allotted to a
neutral country (as, for example, that portion of Schleswig which may be allotted to Denmark).

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
42

McRayNOIs, J., dissenting.

"I am herewith forwarding to you a draft of a.bill to
amend Section 9 of the Trading with the Enemy Act,
which I believe will provide the relief requested by the
Secretary of State."
May 5, 1920 (H. Rep. 1089, 66th Cong., 2nd Sess.),
the Secretary of State wrote to the Attorney General" I have the honor to refer to my letter of March 23,
1920, concerning an amendment to Section 9 of the Trading with the Enemy Act, authorizing the release of property taken over by the Alien Property Custodian belonging to enemy persons who, by virtue of the peace
treaties, become citizens, subjects or nationals of countries other than Germany, Austria or Hungary. In 9ddition to the classes of property referred to therein, I believe that any amendment to Section 9 should also contain provisions permitting Ithe return of all property
which, at the time it was taken over by the Alien Property
Custodian, belonged to natignals, citizens or subjects of
the United States, as well as those of neutral or friendly
states and of Turkey and. Bulgaria.
"The various neutral and allied states whose nationals'
property has leen taken over by the Alien Property
Custodian by reason of their residence in enemy or ally
of enemy territory, or otherwise, for some time have been
pressing for the release of such property. It appears that
the Department of Justice has ruled that, under the
Trading with the Enemy Act in its present form, it
is not in a position to release this property. During the
actual conduct of hostilities, it may have been advisable
to retain such property. In view, however, of the cessation of hostilities, this Department feels that the government should no longer retain this property, even
though a technical state of war may still exist. To do
so would undoubtedly create an unfavorable imlression
in the states concerned, and would be of no advantage to
the United States in its negotiations with enemy countries."

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

267 U. S.

Enclosing the letter last quoted, the Attorney General
wrote again to the House Committee, May 11, 1920 (H.
Rep. 1089, 66th Cong., 2nd Sess.)-,
"Referring to my letter of March 31, concerning certain legislation amendatory to Section 9 of the Trading
with the Enemy Act to be submitted to your committee at
the suggestion of the Secretary of State, as stated to you
in my letter of April 22, through inadvertence the draft of
the proposed legislation was not enclosed in the letter of
March 31, and thereafter the Secretary of State requested
that the matter be held up so that certain additional relief,
which he considered necessairy to give, might be incorporated in the proposed amendment. These suggestions-he
has since furnished to me, and the inclosed draft of a bill,
amending Section 9, has been drawn with a view to meeting these suggestions. I am also enclosing a copy of his
letter to me, dated May 5, 1920, in order that your committee may have the benefit of the information which
it contains.
"The relief called for by this letter required extensive
changes in the text of the bill which was designed to ac,company my letter of March 31, and accordingly I will
reanalyze its provisions, and indicate the change which
it would make in existing law.
"Subsection (b) of the proposed amendment provides,
in substance, for the return of all enemy property, except
that held by persons who are in fact bona fide subjects or
Austria or Hungary."
citizeiisof
I May 21, Germany,
1920, the Secretary of State sent .the following
to the tsA-sfe Committee (H. Rep. 1089, 66th Cong., 2nd

Sss.) -

"'The Attorney General has informed me that on May
11, 1920, he submitted to you a draft of an amendment
to Section 9 of the Trading with the Enemy Act, permitting the return of property taken over by the Alien Property Custodian belbnging to citizens or subjects of neutral

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
42

McRYNoms, J., dissenting.

states and states associated with this government in the
World War, as well as to persons who have or will, in pursuance of treaty provisions, become citizens or subjects
of such states, for example Alsace-Lorraine. or citizens or
subjects of new states which have been recognized by this
government, such as Poland and Czechoslovakia.
"The draft, it is understood, is largely based on representations from this Department, made in view of the fact
that the. Attorney General holds that under the Trading
with the Enemy Act, in its present form, he is unable to
release property to owners, who when it was taken over
were included, for any reason, in the terms 'enemy' or
'ally of enemy,' as used in the Act, and consequently, in
spite of strong representations by various. neutral and
associated governments, it has been impossible to return
the property of their nationals, which it would appear
this government should no longer retain. To longer
retain property of this character can hardly -fail to
unfavorably affect the relations of this government with
the governments concerned. and I am strongly of the
opinion that Section 9 of the Act should be amended at
an early date, so as to permit in prdper cases the return
of such property. I hope that it will be possible to give
favorable consideration to the matter, and that an amendment of the Act can be passed before the recess of
Congre&-."
The House Committee held protracted hearings (H.
Comm. Hearings 1920, vol. 232-1, part 8); and heard
representatives of the "State Department, the Attorney
General's Office and the Alien Property Custodian, who
stated what had been done and pointed out the purpose,
of the proposed amendments. The following is quoted
from statements of Mr. Hill, Assistant to the Solicitor,
State Department. and Mr. Boggs, Special Assistant to.
the Attorney General.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
McREYwoms, J., dissenting.

267 U. S.

"The Chairman. [Mr. Hill,] does -the seizure and retention of this property, by the Alien Property Custodian,
of citizens of Czechoslovakia, Jugo-Slavia, Bulgaria, Turkey and Alsace-Lorraine, involve any embarrassment on
the part of the State Department.0
"Mr. Hill. It does; yes, sir. In addition to that, they
have taken the property of citizens of Switzerland, Holland and other neutral countries, who at the time by
reason of residence in Germany or otherwise, were included in the term 'enemy.' We have taken over that
property, and under the present wording of the Act the
Custodian cannot release it, and the Attorney 'General
cannot upon application act favorably, because it was,
technically, enemy property at the time. We have a
number of cases of that kind and they are causing a, great
deal of embarrassment.
"I may also refer to the case of Czechoslovakia. This
government has recognized the government of Czechoslovakia. Congress.made an appropriation for a minister
to that country and we have accredited a minister there.
This government has recognized the existence of that
country through the Executive, and yet we continue to
hold the property of its citizens, which we cannot release
at this time without an amendment of the Act, because
they were enemies at the time the property was taken
over. The Czechoslovakian government has pressed us
a good deal for the return of that property. Conditions
in Czechoslovakia, Poland, Jugo-Slavia, etc., are very serious and the return of their citizenis' property, in view of
the very advantageous rates of exchange at this time,
would be of material assistance in the rehabilitation of
those countries.
"Take the case of Poland; the same situation exists
there. We have a great deal of Polish property. Where
the Poles were residing in that part of Poland which was
formerly Austria-Hungarian or German territory, the de-

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
42

MCRYoLDS, J., dissenting.

partment has been very much embarrassed because there
is no discretion with the Attorney General to return such
property. There has been considerable irritation shown
by the various neutral countries and considerable pressure
by these new associated states, such as Poland and Czechpslovakia and also Jugo-Slavia, which is a part of the
Kingdom of the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. We continue
to hold the property of their citizens, although they were
our associates during the war.
"Mr. Denison (of the committee). Under the terms of
this bill can that situation be met in the case you referred
to of citizens of Sweden and Norway?
"Mr. Hill. Paragraph 1 on page 4 permits the return
of property of 'a citizen or subject of any nation or state
or free city other than Germany or Austria or Hungary
or Austria-Hungary (including any state or free city in
the four nations last named).' That would permit the
return of such property."
"Mr. Dewalt (of the committee). [Mr Boggs,]' des
the proposed Act have in contemplation the cases of residents of Alsace-Lorraine, occupied territory?
"Mr. Boggs. Yes, sir.
" r. Dewalt. -How do you protect them and what
rights do they receive under this act?
"Mr. Boggs. That refers to subdivision No. 1 of subsection b, contained on page 4 of the present draft. 'A
citizen or subject of any nation or State or free city other
than Germany or Austria or Hungary or Austria-Hungary '-as it now reads---' (including anyState or free city
in the four nations last named), and is at the time of the
return of his money or other property hereunder a citizen or subject of any such nation or State or free city.'
"Now, that would permit the return to a person who
was not a citizen at the time the property was taken and
is not now a citizen of one of the enemy -countries. In
6rder to clarify the situation with regard to Alsace-Lor-

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
McRYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

267 U. S.

raine and other countries that have been transferred from
enemy to nonenemy or friendly status, by virtue of the
war, there has been inserted the proviso" [to Section 9
quoted above].
The foregoing letters and statements indicate the complicated situation which followed common acceptance of
the Treaty of Versailles and failure by the United States
to end the technical state of war until July 2, 1921 (c. 40,
42 Stat. 105J. They reveal the desire of the Executive
Departments for prompt return of sequestered property
not owned by bona.fide subjects or citizens of Germany or
Austria-Hungary, and their interpretation of the proposed
enactment. Paragraphs (1), (4), (6), (7) and (8) of subsection (b) apparently originated with the State. Department. The House Committee made a favorable report
upon the bill, accompanied by these letters (H. Rep. 1089,
June 2, 1920, 66th Cong., 2nd Sess.), and among other
things said"The bill has the approval of the Departments of
Justice and State, as will appear by the letters attached
and which are made a part of this report.
"The United States, while holding approximately
$556,000,000 worth of private property which it found in
this country belonging to individual citizens of enemy
countries residing in their country at the outbreak of the
war and still residing there, does not intend to confiscate
this property. It was the intention of Congress when the
property was taken that it should merely be held in custody during the war and that after the war the property
or its proceeds should be returned to the owners. It has
never been the purpose or the practice of the United States
to seize the private property of a belligerent to pay our
government's claims against such belligerent. Such practice is contrary to the spirit of international law throughout the World. The reasons for' the. enactment of the
pending measure are clearly set forth in the accompany-

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
42

MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

ing communications received from the Attorney General
and the Secretary of State. For tihe reasons set forth in
the letter of the Secretary of State prompt and favorable
action is urged in order that the State Department may be
relieved of some embarrassment in its dealings with some
countries of Europe. For these reasons the committee
favorably reports the bill as above amended."
The House (Cong. Rec. vol. 59, part 8, p. 8429) passed
the bill shortly after this report, and within a few days
thereafter the Senate took like action (id. 8475). The
manifest design was to restore certain property in compliance with the original purpose of Congress.
The amending statute re-enacted the material provisions of original Section 9 as Subsection (a), and added
six subsections--(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g). It deleted the proviso of July 11, 1919, concerning. persons in
occupied territory, and inserted a general proviso applicable to the whole section, whicei directs that no person shall
be deemed or held to be citizens or subjects of Germany or
Austria-Hungary who had been or should become citizen
or subject of any state or nation partly composed of territory once held by either of those empires.* "Person," of
course, includes corporation, and thus, in the section now
*to be construed, "citizen or subject" clearly include corporations and have their true and normal meaning.
* No person shall be deemed or held to be a citizen or subject of
Germany, or Austria or Hungary or Austria-Hungary for the purposes of this section, even though he was such citizen or subject at
the time first specified in this subsection, if he"has become or shall
become, ipso facto or through exercise of option, a citizen or subject
of any nation or State or free city other than Germany, Austria, or
Hungary, (first) under the terms of such treaties of peace as have
been or may be concluded subsequent to November 11, 1918, between
Germany or Austria or Hungary (of the one part) and the United
States and/or three or more of the following-named powers: The
British Empire, France, Italy, and Japan (of the other part), or
(second) under the terms of such treaties as have been or may be

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
McRTNqo.s, J., dissenting.

267 U. S.

Behn, Meyer & Company v. Miler 266 U. S.- 457, considers Section 9, and declares-"Subsection (a) of Section 9 gives now, as the same
words gave from the first, the right of recovery to -any
person never 'an enemy or ally of enemy,' within the statutory definitions. .

.

.

Subsection (b) adds to those

allowed to recover from the first a considerable number
always within the definition of 'enemy' and affords to
them the measure of relief which Congress deemed proper
long after peace had been actually restored......Before its passage the original Trading with the Enemy Act
was considered in the light of difficulties certain to follow
disregard of corporate identity, and efforts to fix the status
of corporations as'enemy or not according to the nationality of stockholders.
"Section 7, Subsection (c), was never intended, we
think, to empower the President to seize corporate property merely because of enemy stockholders' interests
therein. Corporations are brought within the carefully
framed definitions (Sec. 2) of-' enemy' and 'ally of enemy' by the words 'Any corporation incorporated within
such territory of any nation with which the United States
is at war [or any nation which is an ally of such nation]
or incorporated within any country other than the United
States and doing business within such territory."'
We there pointed out that under the Act a corporation
is an entity with character of its own irrespective of the
status attributed to stockholders, and is "enemy " only.
when.directly within the statutory definition. The theory
that all corporations are excluded from Subsection (a)
concluded in pursuance of the treaties of peace aforesaid between any
nation, State, or free city (of the one part) whose territories, in
whole or in part, on August 4, 1914, formed a portion of the territory of Germany or Austria-Hungary and the United States and/or
three or more of the following-named powers: The British Empire,
France, Italy, and Japan (of the other part).

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
42

71

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

because some are specifically mentioned inSubsection (b),
Paragraph (6), was definitely rejected; and we held that
a corporation of the Straits Settlements (British in char-

acter) which had never done business in enemy territory
did not come within the definition, although German'nationals owned the controlling interest.
In his letter of May eleventh the Attorney General ex-

pressed the view that Subsection (b) provided "for the
return of all enemy property, except that held by persons
who are in fact bona fide subjects or citizens of Germany,
Austria or Hungary;" and the Secretary of State thought
that it permits the "return of property taken over by the
Alien Property Custodian belonging to citizens or subjects
of neutral states, and states associated with this government in the World Wai, as well as to persons who have
or will, in pursuance of treaty provisions, become citizens
or subjects of such states, for example, Alsace.Lorraine,
or citizens or subjects of new states which have been
recognized by this government, such as Poland and
Czechoslovakia."
The eight paragraphs of Subsection (b) are separated
by "or," and owners of seized property who are within
any 'described class may recover. Every paragraph adds
some owners, and none restricts another by express words.
The apparent purpose was to relieve any owner if within
any paragraph-not to mark out inclusive and exclusive
classes.
Paragraph (1) is broad enough to include the property
of all neutrals, and so to interpret it will do no violence
to any part of the Act. The words "citizen or subject,"
as commonly used in international matters, include corporations. Paul v. Virginia3, 8 Wall. 168, 177, 178; United
States v. Northwestern Express Co., 164 U. S. 686, 689;
Ramsey v. Tacoma Land Co., 196 U. S.360, 362; Moore's
International Law Digest, vol. III, p. 804; vol. VI, pp.
641, 642.

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
McREYNoIDs, J., dissenting.

267 U. S.

Corporations of neutral countries, although controlled
by enemy stockholders, were never declared to be "en-emy" unless they did business within hostile territory;
the statute gave no regard to residence or nationality of
stockholders. Such business also made enemies of neutral
individuals; and they can recover under Paragraph (1).
Hostilities having ended, neutral nations could properly
demand the same right for their corporations. Confiscation is everywhere disavowed; neutral property may not
be used for adjusting claims against belligerents; and ordinary fair dealing requires its release. To seize the effects of a neutral corporation after cessation of hostilities
and then hold them solely because. of some enemy stockholder, would defeat the lawmakers' honorable intention
and give rise to, grave suspicion concerning the purpose
of our government. On the argument counsel for appellees admitted that the view which he advocated would
prevent return of the sequestered property of a corporation organized under the laws of a neutral nation if a
German subject owned a single share of the stock-if, indeed, he owned less than one per cent., while Americans
or neutrals held the remainder. This unfortunate, if not
absurd, result indicates the unsoundness of the proposed
construction.
Paragraphs (2) and (3) add certain women who married enemy nationals; (4) and (5) add diplomatic and
consular officers and interned persons; (7) and (8) make
fuirther definite additions.
. Paragraph (6) adds to those already described, "a
partnership, association, or other unincorporated body of
individuals outside the United States" (Germany and
Autstria-Hungary are outside); also "a corporation incorporal ed within any country other than the United States
(this includes Germany and Austria-Hungary) and was
entirely owned at such time by subjects or citizens of
nations, States or free cities other than Germany or Austria or Hungary or Austria-Hungary and is so owned at

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
42

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

the time of the return of its money or other property
hereunder." This includes corporations of Germany or
Austria-Hungary, or of any state left within those empires,* if entirely owned by citizens of the United States
or an associated power or a neutral. The practice of
organizing local companies to do the business of foreign
owners has become very general. Certain important German corporations were wholly owned by individuals or
corporations of the United States. British subjects had
large investments in German concerns; and probably the
same is true of subjects of Sweden, Norway, Holland, Denmark, Switzerland and Italy. There were obvious reasons
for releasing property of a corporation when wholly owned
by our own people, by nationals of associated powers, or
by neutrals; and Paragraph (6) effects this.
ConsiderThat the purpose of the original Act was to provide for
the care and administration, pending the war, of property
which might be helpful to our enemies, and to deprive the
owners of its use "until the war closes."
That no corporation was declared "enemy" because of
the nationality of stockholders, but only when incorporated within enemy territory or doing business there.
That property of Americans, of citizens of associated
nations and of neutrals was sequestered because of residence or business carried on within enemy countries.
That although appellant had been permitted to do business within the United States during the whole period of
Civil Code (1900)Sec. 22. An association whose object is the carrying on of an
economic enterprise acquires juristic personality, in the absence of
special provisions of Imperial law, by grant from the State. The
power to make such grant belongs to the State in whose territory
the association has its seat.
Sec. 23. An association whose seat is not in any State may, in the
absence of special provisions of Imperial law, be granted juristic
personality by resolution of the Federal Council.
*German

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
MCRBYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

267 U. S.

actual hostilities its property was seized after the -armistice
when such property could not be utilized for hostile purposes.
That the Act of 1919 permitted return of property of
any "person" (this includes corporation) then a "citizen or subject" of an associated power treated as "enemy"
solely because of residence within enemy lines.
That after the armistice our Executive Departments
represented to Congress the urgent demands for sequestered property of citizens and subjects of associated na,tions, neutrals, and states composed in part of territory
formerly within Germany or Austria-Hungary, and reported the impending deleterious effect upon our foreign
relations.
That the agents of the State Department and the Attorney General's office pointed out that the amendments
proposed by them provided, "in substance, for the return
of all enemy property except that held by persons who
are- in fact bona fide subjects or citizens' of Germany,
Austria or Hungary."
That a general proviso applicable to al of Section 9
directs that, for its purposes, "no person shall be deemed
or held to be a citizen 6r subject of Germany or Austria
or Hungary or Austria-Hungary," if he becomes.the subject of any nation composed in part of territory formerly
belonging to those empires, and it extends relief to such
persons. The words "citizen or subject," as there used,
clearly include " persons," and, by statutory definition, the
latter includes a corporation.
That the original seizure of the property in question
would be difficult to justify; and certainly the United
States can have no moral right longer to retain or to
confiscate it. Neutral property cannot be used in settlement of claims against enemy countries. So to do
would be wholly inconsistent with our traditions and pretensions.

SWISS INSURANCE CO. v. MILLER.
42

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

That the words "citizen-or subject of any nation," in
Paragraph (1), according to common usage, are broad
enough to'include corporations.
That the use of the disjunctive "or," in separating the
paragraphs of Subsection (b), indicates that if an owner
comes within the description of any class he may recover.
The fact that he falls within more than one is not material.
That Paragraph (6). describes a class of owners not
within the words of Paragraph (1) and affords possible
relief, obviously desirable, for our own citizens, associates
and neutrals.
That a liberal construction should be given the amendment with a view to carrying out its benevolent purposes,
and not a narrow, strained one which would reflect discredit upon-the Government.
That the construction asked by appellees is neither
natural'nor necessary and would lead to the unfortunate
conclusion that seized property of a neutral, corporation
must be retained because a German owns one share out
of many thousand. Without doing violence to any part
of the Act and by giving effect to every word therein,
citizens of neutrals may secure just relief and the United
States escape the serious charge of oppressive and unfriendly action.
In view of all these things, I am unable to accept the
view which appellees urge upon us. It seems sufficiently
plain that the court below fell into error; and to affirm
the challenged decree would leave our Government in a
most unenviable position., " There is no debt with so
much prejudice put off as that of justice."

