540

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the case is remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
YEISER v. DYSART, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 130.

Submitted October 24, 1924.--Decided April 13, 1925.

A State may restrict the fees chargeable by attorneys at law in cases
arising under the state workmen's compensation act without depriving them of property or liberty of contract in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 541.
192 N. W. 953, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska
ordering that the right of the plaintiff in error to practise
as attorney at law be suspended unless he refund to a
client a fee received and paid in violation of a provision
of the state workmen's compensation law, providing that
in cases thereunder the pay of the attorney should be
fixed by the court and invalidating any contract for other
anlfurther pay,

John 0. Yeiser, pro se.
No brief filed for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Upon a report of the respondents, a committee of members of the bar, the plaintiff in error was ordered to be
suspended from the right to practise as attorney unless
he should refund to a client a fee received by him of $620
and interest within a time fixed. The ground of the order
was that by ยง 3031, Comp. St. 1922, only such sum could
be demanded for services in bringing a suit under the
workmen's compensation act of the State as the Court'

YEISER v. DYSART.
540

541

Opinion of the Court.

should allow, and that a contract for other and further
pay was void. The Supreme Court of the State, while
crediting the plaintiff in error with an honest belief that
the statute had a narrower meaning, made the order complained of, and the case is brought here on a contention
that the statute as construed unreasonably restricts the
liberty of contract and contravenes the Fourteenth
Amendment by depriving the plaintiff in error of his
liberty and property without due process of law.
The plaintiff in error recognizes that this Court is
bound by the construction given to the State law by the
State Court, yet wastes a good deal of argument in the
effort to prove the construction wrong. When the constitutional question is reached, late cases are relied upon
for the general proposition that unreasonable interference with freedom of contract cannot be sustained. Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525; Charles Wolff
Packing Co. v. Court of Industrial Relations, 262 U. S.
522. But the question is specific, whether we can pronounce this law unreasonable, against the opinion of the
legislature and Supreme Court of the State. The Court
adverts to the fact that a large proportion of those who
come under the statute have to look to it in case of injury and need to be protected against improvident contracts, in the interest not only of themselves and their
families but of the public. A somewhat similar principle
has been sanctioned by this Court. Calhoun v. Massie,
253 U. S. 170. When we add the considerations that an
attorney practises under a license from the State and that
the subject matter is a right created by statute, it is obvious that the State may attach such conditions to the
license in respect of such matters as it believes to be necessary in order to make it 'a public good. Of course a
reasonable time from the issue of the mandate of this
Court will be allowed for the plaintiff in error to comply
with the judgment affirmed.
Judgment Affirmed.

