C., M. & ST. P. RY. v. UNITED STATES.

403

Opinion of the Court.
CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

N]o. 83. Argued December 4, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.
A railroad rompany which made out and presented freight bills to
the Government for net transportaton charges after making land
grant deductions, and accepted without protest payment of the
amount so claimed--held not entitled to recover upon the ground
that the Government should not have been allowed the deductions.
58 Ct. Cls. 33, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Court of Claims re-

jecting the Railroad's claim for transportation of freight.
Mr. Benjamin Carter, for appellant.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline,Assistant to the Solicitor General, for the United States, submitted.
-MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellant brought this action, October 29, 1917, to recover the amounts by which freight charges on certain
materials transported over its railroad were reduced by
the application of government land-grant rates. All the
freight was transported on government bills of lading
and moved in whole or in part by the use of appellant's
land-aided lines of railroad. The shipments, including
coal, sand, cement, piling and lumber, were made in the
years 1909 to 1916, inclusive. Some of appellant's lines
of railroads were constructed by the aid of land granted
by an Act of Congress of May 12, 1864, ยง 3, c. 84, 13 Stat.
73. See Lake Superior & MississippiR. R. Co. v. United
..tates, 93 U. S. 442; Act of August 5, 1882, c. 390, 22
Stat. 261. The appellant deemed the United States to
be entitled to have its property transported over such

404'

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. s.

lines at 50 per cent. of the tariff rates. Two of appellant's lines of railroad in Minnesota were constructed by
the aid of land granted by an Act of Congress of July 4,
1866, ยง 3, c. 168, 14 Stat. 88. Appellant made no charges
for the shipments: that moved over these lines. Appellant alleged that when it received and transported such
freight it believed it belonged to the United States, and
had no intimation that the shipments were private property until the latter part of 1916. , The Court of Claims
held that all the shipments belonged to the United States,
and that it was entitled to transportation of its property
at 50 per cent. of the tariff rates on the aided lines first
above referred to and to free transportation on those last
mentioned, and found that it was not shown whether appellant was informed as to the title to the property.
The court further found that in every instance appellant made out and presented freight bills to the Government for the net charges after making proper land
grant deductions, and that the payment of the full amount
so claimed was made and accepted without protest. Appellant is not entitled to recover. Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. United States, decided this day, ante, p..
395, and cases cited.
Judgment affirmed.
MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
STROUD.
CERTIORARI TO THE SPRINGFIELD COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF MISSOURI.-

No. 168. Argued January 14, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.
Where a carrier has-two routes by which freight may move between
two points within a State, one route wholly within the State and
the other partly through, another, a prospective shipment which,
following the carrier's practice and in the absence of preference

