OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

to consult the convenience of intending libellants as far
as it could, and as the United States was present everywhere in the United States, it named as the proper place
for suit either the place of the residence of the parties
suing, or of any one of them, or their principal place of
business, or where the vessel or cargo charged with liability was found. It further expressly provided that
those which would have been under the prior act causes
of action in rem might be united with those in personam.
To avoid any difficulty in bringing needed parties into the
same suit it directed that the cause might be transferred
in the discretion of the court to any other District Court
in the United States. These liberal provisions indicate
that the language used in the section should have its
broad and ordinary meaning and should not be interpreted in a restricted and distributive sense. We think,
therefore, that the suit brought in the district where the
libellant resided was a suit brought in accordance with
Section 2, even though it would have been an action in
rem between private parties, and that it made no differ.ence where the vessel then was, provided only that it was
within the jurisdiction of the United States. The decree
of the court below must, therefore, be reversed, and the
cause remanded to the District Court for further proceedings.
Reversed.
,MERCHANTS MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY
INSURANCE COMPANY v. SMART.
ERRORTO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 22a. Argued January 2Z, 1925.--Decided March 2, 1925.
A state law (N. Y. Laws 1918, c. 182) required that any policy
'issued by an insurance corporation,. ih the future, to indemnify
the. owner of a motor vehicle against liability to persohs injured
through negligence in its operation, shall provide that the insolvency or bankruptcy of te insurMd shall not release the company

MERCHANTS LIABILITY CO. v. SMART.
126

127

Opinion of the Court.

from payment of damages for an injury sustained during the life
of the policy, and that, in case execution against the insured in an
action brought by a person so injured shall be returned unsatisfied
because of such insolvency or bankruptcy, the injured person may
maintain an action against the company on the policy for the
amount of the judgment not exceeding the amount of the policy.

Held:
(1) That the regulation is reasonable, and within the police power;
it cannot be said to deprive the Insurance Company of property
without due process of law. P. 129..
(2) That it does not conflict with the Bankruptcy Act by providing
for an unlawful preference. P. 130.

198 N. Y. S. 949 affirned.

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of New
York, Appellate Division, affirming a judgment recovered
by Smart against the Insurance Company. The New
York Court of Appeals declined to review. The facts tre
given in the opinion.,
Mr. Anthony J. Ernest, with whom Mr. Frederick T.
ERRoR

Stone was on the -brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John.P. Bramhall for defendant in error.
MR. CI=F JusTICE TAFTr

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Merchants Mutual Automobile Liability Insurance
Company, the plaintiff in error, is a New York corporation authorized to insure against recoveries of damages
by persons injured by automobiles and other vehicles, for
whose operation the insured is responsible. It issued a
policy August 16, 1919, to Frank Coron, thus to indemnify
him in the operation of his automobile truck to the extent
of $5,000, together with interest- and costs. The poliy'
contained a provision, inserted pursuant to the requirement of Section 109 of the Insurance Laws of New York.
(Laws of 1918, ch.-.182.) The section reads as follows:
"On and after the first day of January, nineteen' hundred and eighteen, no policy of insurahce against loss

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

or damage resulting from accident to or injury suffered by
an employee or other person and for which the person
insured is liable, or, against loss or damage to property
caused by horses or by any vehicle drawn, propelled or
operated by any motive power, and for which loss or
damage the person insured is liable, shall be isslied or
delivered to any person in.this state by any corporation
authorized.., to do business in this state, unless there
'shall be contained within such policy a provision that the
insolvency or bankruptcy of the person insured shall not
release the insurance carrier from the payment of damages
-for injury sustained or loss occasioned during the life of
such policy., and stating that in case execution against the
insured is returned unsatisfied in an action brought by the
injured, or his or her personal representative in case death
results from the accident, because of such insolvency or
bankruptcy, that then an action may be maintained by
the injured person, or his or her personal representative,
against such corporation under the terms of the policy
for the amount of the judgment in the said action not
exceeding the amount of the policy."
. Smart was injured by the truck of Coron. He brought
suit against Coron for damages and recovered a judgment
for $11,000. He issued execution against Coron upon the
judgment, which was returned unsatisfied, and supplemental proceedings were undertaken against him without
success.

The Supreme Court of the State held that on the record
Coron was insolvent, that under the clause of the policy
embodying the provision of Section 109 the action lay,
and because of a failure to set up any good defense, a
summary judgment was entered for $5,000 and interest
and costs in favor of Smart against the Company.
The case has been brought here by the Company under
Section 237 of. the Judicial Code, upon the claim that
Section 109 is invalid, first in that it deprives the Insur-

MERCHANTS LIABILITY CO. v. SMART. - 129
126

Opinion of the Court.

ance Company of its property without due process of
law, and, second, because it is in conflict with the bankruptcy laws of the United States. It is well settled that
the business of insurance is' of such a peculiar character,
affects so many people and is so intimately connected
with the common good that the State creating insurance
corporations and giving them authority to engage in that
business may, without transcending the limits of legislative power; regulate their affairs so far at least as to prevent them from committing wrongs or injustice in the
exercise of their corporate functions. Northwestern Life
Insurance Company v. Riggs, 203'U. S. 243, 254; Whitfield v. Aetna Life Insurance Company, 205 U. S. 489;
GermanAlliance InsuranceCompany v. Kansas, 233 U. S.
389, 412, et seq.; La Tourette v. McMaster, 248 U. S. 465,
467; National Insurance Company v. Wanberg, 260 U S.
71, 73. Such regulation would seem to be peculiarly
applicable to that form of insurance which has come into
very wide use of late years, that of indemnifying the
owners of vehicles against losses due to the negligence of
themselves or their servants in their operation and use.
The agencies for the promotion of comfort and speed in
the streets are so many and present such possibility of
accident and injury to members of the public that the
owners have recourse to insurance to relieve them from
the risk of heavy recoveries they run in entrusting these
more or less dangerous instruments to the care of their
agents. Having in mind the sense of iinmunity of the
owner prbtected by the insurance and the possible danger
of a less degree of care due to that immunity, it would
seem to be a reasonable provision by the State in the
interest of the public, whose lives and limbs are exposed,
to require that the owner in the contract indemnifying
him against any recovery from him should stipulate with
the insurance company that the indemnity by which he

130

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

saves himself should certainly inure to the benefit of the
person who thereafter is injured. Section 109 does not
go quite so far. It provides that the subrogation shall
take place only when the insured proves insolvent or
bankrupt, and leaves the injured person to pursue his
judgment against the insured if solvent without reliance
on the policy.
Another reason for the legislation is suggested in the
-opinion of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court
of New York (Roth v. National Automobile Mutual Casualty Company, 202 N. Y. App. Div. 667, 674), to wit,
that it was enacted on the recommendation of the State
Superintendent of Insurance to make impossible a practice of some companies to collude with the insured after
an injury foreshadowing heavy damages had occurred,
and to secure an adjudication of the insured in bankruptcy Whereby recovery on. the policy could'be defeated
because the bankrupt had sustained no loss.
Whatever the especial occasion for the enactment, it is
clear that the exercise of the police power in passing it
was reasonable and can not be said to deprive the Insurance Company of property without due process of law.
It is to be remembered that the assumption of liability
by the Insurance Company under Section 109 is entirely
voluntary. It need not engage in such insurance if it
chooses not to do so.
The second objection is that the policy in this clause
makes provision for an unlawful preference .under the
National Bankruptcy At, when the owner who is indemnified is a bankrupt at the time'of the injury.
Passing by the difficulty that suggests itself that the
Inkurance Company is not one of the creditors of the insolvent insured and so is hardly in position to question
the validity of the law for a defect oA this kind' (Heald v.
District of Columbia, 259 U. S. 114, 123, and cases cited),
we prefer to deal with the objebtion on its merits. It has

MERCHANTS LIABILITY CO. v. SMART.
126

131.

Opinion of the Court.

ilo substance. As we have already suggested, the legislature might have required that policies of this kind
should subrogate one injured and recovering judgment
against the assured to the right of the latter to sue the
company on the policy. It simply would create a secured
interest in the recovery on the policy for the benefit of
the injured person when ascertained. It would not be
an unlawful preference any more than security given for
any lawful claim against the assured while solvent would
be unlawful in the event of subsequent bankruptcy. The
clause we have before us is just the same save in one
respect. It secures to the injured'person the indemnity
which his injurer has provided for himself in advance
to avoid payment for the injury. But the clause becomes
operative only in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of the assured when he can no -longer use the indemnity to pay the injured person as he should.. The
title to the indemnity passes out of the bankrupt or insolvent person and vests in him in whom the contract
and the state law declares it should vest. The assured is
divested by the terms of the instrument under which the
interest of the assured and the interest of the injured,
then contingent, and now absolute, were created. The
general creditors have lost nothing because by the fact of
bankruptcy the interest of the assured in the policy passed
to the injured person and did not become assets of the
assured. The provision for the divesting of the interest
on bankruptcy was not made to defraud creditors or ih
expectation of bankruptcy, but was made so far as we can
know when the assured was solvent and merely to provide
against a future contingency.
We think that there is in this state legislation complaine,d of, no conflict -with the policy or the letter of the
bankrupt law.
A third objection is made that there was no sufficient
evidence that the insured was insolvent. This was a

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

question of fact under the proceedings which were instituted by execution and what followed. The state
courts have found it to exist and it is not for us to
question their findings.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
CARROLL ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 15. Argued December 4, 1923; restored to docket for reargument January 28, 1924; reargued March 14, 1924.-Decided March
2, 1925.
1. Th*& legislative history of ยง 6 of the act supplemental to the
National Prohibition Act, November 23, 1921, c. 134, 42 Stat. 223,
which makes it a misdemeanor for any officer of the United States
to search a private dwelling without a search warrant or to search
any other building or property without a search warrant, maliciously and without reasonable cause, shows clearly the intent
of Congress to make a distinction as to the necessity for a search
oarat in the searching of private dwellings and in the searching
of automobiles or other road vehicles, in the enforcement of the
Prohibition Act. P. 144.
2. The Fourth Amendment denounces only such searches or seizures
as are unreasonable, and it is to be construed in the light of what
was deemed an unreasonable" search and seizure when it was
adopted, and in a manner which will conserve public interests as
well as the interests and rights of individual citizens. P. 147.
3. Search without a warrant of an automobile, and seizure therein
of liquor subject to seizure and destruction under the Prohibition
Act, do not violate the Amendment, if made upon probable cause,
i. e., upon a belief, reasonably arising out of circumstances known
to the officer, that the vehicle contains such contraband liquor.
P. 149.
4. Various acts of Congress are cited'to show that, practically since
the beginning of the Government, the Fourth Amendment'has
been construed as recognizing a .necessary difference between a
search for contraband. in a store, dwelling-house, or other struc-

