COOKE v. UNITED STATES.
511

Syllabus.

known to contain coal, iron or other minerals, and that
railroad companies generally have acquiesced therein by
furnishing proofs of the non-coal and iron character of the
land selected.
It has also been insisted on behalf of the Secretary that
the discretion vested in him by Congress in supervising
the selection of lieu lands and in executing the laws of
1866 and 1874 is quasi judicial, and that it may not be
controlled through mandamus or injunction by the Courts,
unless his conclusion can be said to be capricious or arbitrary, or so unreasonable as not to be debatable. To sustain this claim, the cases of Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S. 316, 324; Ness v. Fisher, 223 U. S. 683,
692; Alaska Smokeless Coal Co. v. Lane, 250 U. S. 549t
555, and Hall v. Payne, 254 U. S.343, and a number of
earlier cases are cited. See Brown v. Hitcocwk; 173 U. S.
473, 478. It may be that the authority of these cases
would require us to yield to the contention made on behalf
of the Secretary in this regard. .We are not; however, required to decide this point. The case against the construction of the Act of 1874 urged by the Railroad Company is so clear that we prefer to put our decision directly
on the merits of that issue.
Affirmed.
COOKE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 311.

Argued March 20, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.

1. On the day following a trial in the District Court in which'a
verdict had been rendered against his client, in a case ig'which
other necessary proceedings remained pending, and while the court
was engaged in trying another case. but during a short recess, an
attorney at law addressed a letter, marked "personal," to the District Judge and caused it to be delivered to him at his chambers
next the court room, in which the writer not only' "advised the

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

267 U. S.

judge of the desire of his client to have another judge try four
other cases yet to be heard, and of his own desire to avoid the
necessity of filing in those cases an affidavit of bias under § 21,
Judicial Code, by inducing the judge voluntarily to withdraw, but
also evinced his heat over the judge's conduct in the case lately
tried and characterized it in severe language personally derogatory
to the judge. Held that in the'latter aspects the letter was contemptuous. P. 532.
2. When a contempt is committed in open lcourt, it may be
adjudged and punished summarily upon the court's own knowledge
of the facts, without further proof, without issue or trial, and
without hearing an explanation of the motives of the offender. Ex
2,arte Terry, 128 U. S. 289. P. 534.
43-But where the contempt was not in open court, though constituting "misbehavior in the presence of the court" within the
meaning of Rev. Stats. § 725, due process of law requires charges
and that the accused be advised of them and be given a reasonable opportunity to defend or explain, with the assistance of counsel, if requested, and the right to call witnesses in proof of exculpation or extenuation. P. 535.
4. Where the alleged contumacy was committed by sending a letter
to the judge in chambers, and eleven days thereafter an order reciting the facts and adjudging contempt was entered and an attachment thereupon issued under which the iccused was arrested forthwith and brought before the court and, upon admitting authorship
of the letter, vas pronounced guilty because of it and of extraneous
facts referred to by the judge as in aggravation, and was forthwith punished, without being allowed to secure and consult counsel, prepare his defense and call witnesses, or to make a full personal explanation,-Held that the procedure was unfair and oppressive and not due process of law. P. 537.
5. Where conditions do not make it impracticable and the delay will
not injure public or private rights, a judge, in a case of contempt
consisting of a personal attack upon himself, may properly ask
that the matter-be heard by a fellow judge. P. 539.
6. In this case, decided that the judge who imposed the sentence
reversed should invite the Senior Circuit Judge of the Circuit to
assign another judge to sit in the second hearing. P. 539.
295 Fed. 292; reversed.

Clay Cooke and J. L. Walker were each sentenced for
thifty days' imprisonment for contempt by the United

COOKE v. UNITED STATES.
517

Statement of the Case.

States District Court for the Northern District of Texas.
The case was taken on error to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which affirmed the sentence
of Cooke and reversed that of Walker. By certiorari,
Cooke's sentence was brought here.
Walker was defendant in a series of suits growing out
of the bankruptcy of the Walker Grain Company. One
of the cases, numbered 984. after a long jury trial resulted in a verdict against Walker of $56,000. The next
day, while the court was open and engaged in the trial
of another cause. and during a, ten minutes' recess for rest
and refreshments. Walker, by direction of Cooke, delivered to the District Judge in his chambers, adjoining the
court room, and within a.few feet of it, a,letter marked
"Personal ". as follows:
"Fort Worth, Texas, February 15, 1923.
"Hon. Jame- C. Wilson,
Judge U. S. District Court.
Fort Worth. Texas.
"Dear Sir:
"In re No. 985, W. W. Wilkinson, .Trustee, vs. J. L.
Walker; in re No. 986, W. W. Wilkinson, Trustee, vs.
Mass. Bonding Company et al.; in re 266, Equity, W. W.
Wilkinson, Trustee. vs. J. L. Walker; in re 69, Equity,
Southwestern Telegraph & Telephone Co. vs. J. L. Walker.,
in re No. 1001, in Bankruptcy, Walker Grain Company.
"Referring to the above matters pending in the District Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Texas, at Fort Worth. I beg personally, as a lawyer
interested in the cause of justice and fairness in-the trial
of all litigated matters and as a friend of the Judge of this
Court to suggest that the only order that I will consent
to your Honor's entering in any of the above mentioned
matters now pending in Your Honor's Court, is an order.
certifying Your Honor's disqualification on the ground of
prejudice and bias to try said matters.

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

267 U. S.

"You having however proceeded to enter judgment in
the petition for review of the action of the Referee on
the summary orders against the Farmers' & Mechanics
National Bank and J. L. Walker and Mrs. M. M. Walker,
you, of course, would have to pass upon the motion for
a new trial in those matters, and also having tried 984,
W. W. Wilkinson, Trustee, vs. J. L. Walker, you will,
of course, have to pass upon the motion for a new trial
in said cause.
"I do not like to take the steps necessary to enforce
the foregoing disqualification, which to my mind, as a
lawyer, and an honest man is apparent.
" Therefore, in the interest of friendship and in the
interest of fairness, I suggest that the only honorable
thing for Your Honor to do in the above styled matters,
is to note Your Honor's disqualification, or, Your Honor's
qualification having been questioned, to exchange places
and permit some judge in whom the defendant and counsel feel more confidence to try these particular matters.
"Prior to the trial of cause No. 984, which has just concluded, I had believed that Your Honor was big enough
and broad enough to overcome the personal prejudice
against the defendant Walker, which I knew to exist, but
I find that in this fond hope I was mistaken, also, my
client desired the privilege of laying the whole facts before Your Honor in an endeavor to overcome the effect
of the slanders that have been filed in Your Honor's Court
against him personally and which have been whispered
in Your Honor's ears against him, and in proof of which
not one scintilla of evidence exists in any record ever
made in Your Honor's Court.
"My hopes in this respect having been rudely shattered, I am now appealing purely to Your Honor's dignity
as a Judge and sense of fairness as a man to do as in this
letter requested, and please indicate to me at the earliest
moment Your Honor's pleasure with respect to the mat-

COOKE v. UNITED STATES.
517

Statement of the Case.

ters herein presented, so that further steps may be
avoided.
"With very great respect, I beg to remain,
"Yours most truly,
CLAY CooKE."
Eleven days after this, on the 26th of February, the
court directed an order to be entered with a recital of facts
concluding as follows:
"Therefore, since the matters of fact set forth herein
are within the personal knowledge of the judge of this
Court, and since it is the view of this Court that said
letter as a whole is an attack upon the honor and integrity
of the Court, wherein it charges that the judge of this
Court is not big enough and broad enough to truly pass
upon matters pending therein, and wherein it charges in
effect that the judge of this Court has allowed himself to
be improperly approached and influenced and whispered
to by interested parties against a litigant in the Court,
and since it is the view of this Court that such an act by
a litigant and his attorney constitutes misbehavior, and
a contempt under the law and that the threats and impertinence and insult in said letter were deliberately and
designedly offered with intent to intimidate and improperly influence the Court in matters then pending and soon
to be passed upon, and to destroy the independence and
impartiality of the Court in these very matters, it is ordered that an attachment immediately issue for the said
J. L. Walker and Clay Cooke, and that the Marshal of
this Court produce them instanter before this Court to
show cause, if any they have, why they should not be
punished for. contempt."
The marshal arrested the defendants and brought them
to court. The following statement shows in substance
what then occurred:
"Judge Wilson: At this time I will call the contempt
matter against Clay Cooke and J. L. Walker, attachment
having been issued for these respondents.

522,

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of tl*Case.

267

T.

S.

"I have requested Judge J. MiMcCormick, of Dallas,
to be present and act as a friend of the Court in this proceeding, and have also requested the District Attorney,
it being in its nature a criminal matter, to act."
Mr. Clay Cooke said that he had not known of the
attachment until that morning, that he would like time
to prepare for trial and get witnesses for their defense.
that there might be extenuating circumstances which
would appeal to the court's sense of fairness and justice in
fixing whatever penalty might be imposed and that he
had attempted to secure counsel but through illness or
absence of those he sought he had failed up to that time.
Judge Wilson intimated that he would not postpone
the matter, and said:
"There is just this question involved, and as stated by
counsel representing the Court, these facts are within the
personal knowledge of this Court. Did. you deliver this
letter to the Judge of this Court?
"Mr. Clay Cooke: Is your Honor asking me?
"Judge Wilson: I am stating the question-and does
that under the law constitute contempt? If you have
any defense, you have not suggested any. This Court
would be glad to give you ample time to file any pleadings pertinent and secure any evidence that might support or tend to support it, but unless you desire now to
state that you have some defense you care to file and present, and indicate what that defense is to this charge,
then I shall direct that this proceeding go forward, and
you are fully protected, since the higher Courts are open
to you to correct any error,. even to the Supreme Court,
that the Judge of this Court might commit here. Now
if you have Any defense that is pertinent to this order,
state what it is."
Mr. Cooke began to dictate a statement to be filed by
him, to the effect that he and Walker believed that they
had a good defense, and that the matters of fact stated

COOKE v. UNITED STATES.
517

Statement of the Case.

in the letter as to the bias and prejudice of the judge were
true.
"The Court: That does not constitute any defense.
"Mr. Clay Cooke: I'll state then something otherwise"Judge Wilson: Repeating the insult does not constitute any defense.
"Mr. Clay Cooke: I am not trying to repeat the insult, if your Honor please . . . I am now stating my
good faith.
"Judge Wilson: I mean this, that the Court is not permitting it stated-you may if you regard that as proper,
you may state it in your bill of exceptions in concluding
the record.
"Mr. Clay Cooke: That affiant had heretofore been
on friendly relations with said Judge James C. Wilson"Judge Wilson: That is a matter that is wholly immaterial here it don't make any difference how friendly.
"Mr. Clay Cooke: I am stating my good faith in writing the letter. And affiant believed in writing said letter
that he would relieve the said Judge of the embarrassment of dinding the necessary statutory affidavits of disqualification, and if said letter"Judge Wilson: Now the Court is not caring anything about your suggesting the disqualification of the
Court; that is your right before these important trials,
but you did not avail yourself of that privilege. You
understdod as a lawyer how to proceed in order to suggest the disqualification of the Judge.
"Mr. Clay Cooke: I am going to state why I did not
proceed"Judge Wilson: That does not constitute any defense
to this contempt charge.
"Mr. Clay Cooke: Can I put that in about writing the
lettei? Can I put that in later?
"Judge Wilson: You may.

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

267 U. S.

".Mr. Clay Cooke: That affiant wrote said letter without any intention on his part of incurring contempt proceedings and .*ithoutany thought of contempt and believed that said letter would not be so construed. That
affianthas the highest regard for this Court as a Judge;
that affiant believed in good faith the Court had heard
things concerning-"
Then Mr. McCormick, for the court, interposed an objection that there ought not to be an accentuation of the
contempt in the letter by a repetition of innuendoes and
reflections on the court or by including them in the
record:
Mr. Clay Cooke said he had dictated and sent the letter after advising with reputable counsel who had read
it and believed it proper. "The letter itself was not
carefully read by myself."
Judge Wilson: I would like to know who said reputable counsel are."
Mr. Clay Cooke said it was his partner, Mr. Dedmon.
He said thd letter was dictated and was not read by his
client, J. L. Walker, that he had not made the contents
public and intended it only for the judge's eye to relieve
him from embarrassment, that the purpose was most
friendly. After repeating a desire for counsel and the investigation as to the law of contempt in its application
to this case, Mr. Cooke referred to the statement he had
been attempting to dictate and asked that he might make
it fuller because of certain interruptions and to put in anything relevant to his defense.
"You may add-I have not heard any defense suggested here yet,. but you may add any, however, if you
'think of any later. Read the order, Mr. District Attorney."
The District Attorney'then read the order for the arrest
of the defendants set forth in the record in said cause, the
defendants were directed to stand up and the court addressed them as follows:

COOKE v. UNITED STATES.
517

Statement of the Case.

"Judge Wilson: The findings of fact, all of which are
within the personal knowledge of this Court, will be made
in the order entered:
"Now, gentlemen, it is a matter almost of common
knowledge that the Courts may be lawfully criticised the
same as any other branch of the government, and that it is
not unlawful or a contempt of the Court for any person,
including newspapers, to pass criticisms upon the judiciary, including the Federal Courts and the judges regardless of their truth or falsity, when those criticisms are
concerning past matters not at the time pending in the
Courts. This law is based upon sound principle. Every
branch of the Government needs constructive criticism;.
when it is such it is wholesome and helpful; no judge I
think welcomes it more nor fears it less than the Judge
of this Court. But it is altogether a different proposition
and is unlawful and clearly constitutes a contempt of
Court for any litigant or attomney to pass such in the presence of the Court, not in a respectful, but in a contemptuous and slanderous manner concerning matters then
pending and later to be disposed of by the Court.
CCIt is obvious upon a reading of this letter that you
deliberately designed to improperly influence the Court in
these pending matters wherein no disqualification is suggested, and you were very careful to suggest that the
Court was not disqualified in certain matters, and it is
the view of the Court that it was your thought and aim
to destroy the independence and the very impartiality of
the Court as to those matters.
"And I have some mbre things I should like to remind
you gentlemen of, your conduct and course as litigant
and as an attorney of this Court, iA-many respects, has
been reprehensible. You have filled' your pleadings with
scandalous charges against trusted officials of this Court.
You have charged that the Referee in Bankruptcy, the
attorneys for the petitioning creditors and the Trustee
in Bankruptcy entered, into a corrupt conspiracy to do

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Statement of the Case.

267 U.S.

many unlawful things all to deprive you, J. L. Walker, of
your rights, in this Court. And not only that, but while
the jury were. deliberating in cause No. 984. and though
in charge of the marshal of this Court, you both of you
being a party to it, employed-a private detective to follow
and shadow them with a view of reporting to you any
corrupt conduct on their part; and you, J. L. Walker.
after the jury had rendered its verdict of fifty-six thousand
dollars against you, you employed this same detective.
whose sworn statement I hold in my hand, to follow the
foreman of the jury, Mr. E. G. Thomas, an honorable and
respected citizen of Tarrant County, stating that you
expected him to meet some one and be paid off, in other
words, to receive bribe money for his verdict in said cause.
And not only that., but you gave this same private detective to understand, that another one of the jurors, an
honorable citizen of Parker County, had been improperly
approached and influenced as a juror in this case"Mr. J. L. Walker: Your Honor, pardon me, but I
would like to state that J. L. Walker did but what he is
in position to prove, and I have it in my pocket" -Mr. Marshal, cause this man to desist.
"Mr. J. L. Walker: I beg your pardon I thought I had
the right to speak now.
"Judge Wilson: No, you haven't got a right. Your
time to reply is passed.
"In view of all this, it is not surprising that you men
would deliver this letter to the Court with the utterly
false statement in it that this Court had permitted himself to be improperly influenced and whispered to by
interested parties against a litigant in this Court. It is
a simple and easy-matter to analyze the character of any
man who is expecting every other man to act dishonestly
and corruptly.
"Your whole course, as I say, has been contemptible,
not only in this matter, and it is not surprising that you
delivered this letter to the Court and is surprising that

COOKE v. UNITED STATES.
517

527

Statement of the Case.

you did not state more in the letter, and of course you
are in contempt, if you are not, you have your remedy,
and you, J. L. Walker, I sentence to the Tarrant County
jail for thirty days and the payment of a five hundred
dollar fine" Mr. McCormick: I doubt whether your Honor has
the authority to assess both fine and imprisonment. The
statute says you may punish by 'fine or imprisonment.'
I believe I would suggest that you visit such fine as you
see fit, or such imprisonment, but not both.
"Judge Wilson: I assess a punishment of thirty days
against each of these respondents."
Mr. Cooke asked that a-bond be fixed pending appeal.
"Mr. McCormick: An appeal does not lie in such a case.
The evidence, gentlemen, if at all, must be reviewed by
writ of error, if reviewed at all.
"Mr. Clay Cooke: The statement of the Court is he
will consider a writ of error or appeal. In this case we
will have sixty days"Judge Wilson: Take these respondents to jail, Mr.
Marshal.
"Mr. McCormick: If they are going to take the full
sixty days on the matter"Judge Wilson: No, there is not going to be any sixty
days, the higher Court is going to pass upon this matter
at once. ...
"Mr. Dedmon: Did your Honor fix the amount of the,
bond?
"Judge Wilson: One thousand dollars. I am not allowing them bond, not releasing the defendants. It is a
writ of error bond.
"Mr. Dedmon: You mean you are not going to let them
appeal from the order adjudging them to spend thirty
days in jail?"Judge Wilson: If they perfect this appeal, I might
release them from jail-show that they are going to appeal it and do it in a hurry."

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Petitioner.

267 U. S.

Mr. Edwin C. Brandenburg, with whom Messrs J. A.
Templeton, G. A. Stultz, W. E. Spell, and E. Howard
McCaleb were on the brief, for petitioner.
Petitioner's conviction was obtained- without due process of law.
He was sentenced without any affidavit or other authentic charge being brought against him, or any notice
of the offense charged, Phillips S. & T., Co., v. Amalgamated Ass'n., 208 Fed. 335; Sona v. Aluminum Castings
Co., 214 Fed. 936.
Even the purported charge states no offense against
the laws of the United States. If everything in the purported charge were admitted to be true, it would merely
mean that the judge held certain private "views" as to
certain private, confidential acts of the defendant, and
these views might or might not be justified by the facts.
Ex parte Hudgins, 249 U. S. 378; Ex parte Craig, 274
Fed. 185.
Petitioner was not informed of the nature and cause of
the accusation. The statute was in no respect complied
with. The petitioner was arrested on a warrant that
neither charged an offense nor contained a dertified copy
of any charge, and was immediately committed to jail
for 30 days. Sona v. Aluminum Castings Co., supra;
Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418;
Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505; Windsor v. McVeigh,
93 U. S. 274; Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 350; In re Holt,
55 N. J. L. 384.
Petitioner was denied the assistance of counsel for his
defense. No notice was given him of the charge, though
the trial judge consumed ten days after receiving the
letter in which it appears he engaged the services of a
special prosecutor from another city, formulated the
charge, prepared for the prosecution; then, after such
careful preparation, a marshal is sent out to bring petitioner under arrest instanter before the court, where he

COOKE v. UNITED STATES.
517

Argument for Petitioner.

is denied all reasonable opportunity to consult counsel,
or to obtain the assistance of counsel for his defense.
The fact that this is a criminal prosecution and that
defendant was denied the'assistance of counsel for his
defense can not be, and is no, -denied. It is the assistance
of counsel that the Constitution guarantees. The right
of counsel, even if granted, without the right of consultation is barren and fruitless. The arrest, the alleged
hearing, the conviction and the incarceration of defendant
all occurred in a very short space of time in the forenoon,
and defendant during all of that time was in the custody
of the marshal or before the bar of the court in custody,
with no opportunity either to employ or consult with
counsel.
Defendant was not allowed to plead to the charge, and
the common law right to purge himself by his oath was
denied him. Craig v. Hecht, 260 U. S. 714. The only
objection to the letter apparently urged in the purported
charge is the statement of the defendant's former opinion
ihat the judge was big enough and broad enough to overcome the bias and prejudice admittedly existing, and the
conclusion that he was mistaken therein. This is not a
contempt. It is merely the statement of a.truth, which
this record clearly discloses. It is an unfortunate situation that a lawyer may, with flattery and praise, seek to
and actually influence judicial action, but he cannot speak
the truth with candor without being sent to jail. This
is not as it should be, Ex parte Robinson, supra; Hovey
v. Elliott, 167U. *S. 409; MeVeigh v. United States, 11
Wall. 259; Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 277; Galpin v.
Page, 18 Wall. 350; In. re Pittman, 1 Curt. (U. S.) 186.
Petitioner was convicted without being confronted by
any witnesses or evidence against him, and there is no
evidence of guilt in the record to sustain the conviction.
The record on appeal was wrongfully altered after the
appeal was perfected by arbitrarily striking out defend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argifment for the United States.

267 U. S.

aiit's answer and motion in arrest of judgment, and for a
new trial; and the court's refusal to act on the same was a
refusal to perform, the duties required of it by law; and
striking the papers from the record on appeal afte appeal
was perfected was an invasion of the province and jurisdictian of appellate courts, and deprived petitioner of
substantial legal rights. A sentence imposed for an
offense not charged is void.
Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Beck was on the
brief, for the United States.
Petitioner was guilty of contempt, § 725, Rev. Stats.
This act is not the source, of course, of the power of the
federal courts to punish contempts. It but restricts their
inherent power. Under it they can only punish as contempt "the misbehavior of any person in their presence,
or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of
justice."
Petitioner's act in witing and delivering the letter, was
in the "presence of the court." In re Savin, Petitioner,
131 U. S.267. It was also "misbehavior" to say to the
judge in writing, as the petitioner here did, that in-a case
just ended and in which a motion for a new trial was
pending, he had proved himself not big enough and not
broad enough to restrain his bias and prejudice against a
litigant; that in his conduct of the trial he had manifested
such prejudice and bias; and that he was possessed of this
prejudice and bias against the litigant because he had permitted slanders to be whispered in his ears; to say to the
judge that the petitioner's hopes that the judge would
conduct himself as a judge should had been shattered by
the judge's conduct, and not only, shattered but rudely
Sshattered; to say all of these things, and in substance
they were all said in the petitioner's letter, was patently
to offer insult .to the court and openly to impeach his
honor both as judge and man. Certainly it is no defense

COOKE v. UNITED STATES.
517

Argument for the United States.

to.say that there were .parts of tne letter that were not
improper, or that much of it might lawfully have been
incorporated in an affidavit to disqualify the judge in
cases not yet tried. There remains the offending language which had no reference to the cases yet for trial
but referred solely to the case still pending on motion for
new trial.
Petitioner was accorded a fair hearing. The word'
"warrant" as used in the Fourth Amendment has never
been held to include an attachment to answer for contempt of court. -Ithas been repeatedly held that in a
case of a direct contempt neither affidavit, notice, rule to
show cause, nor other process, is a necessary prerequisite
to the court's jurisdiction to punish the contempt. In
re Terry, 128 U. S. 289. The petitioner waived any objection to the basis of the attachment by pleading orally
and in writing to the charge upon its merits. This objection is contained in none of the assignments of error.
Neither Phillips S. & T. Co. v. Amalgamated Ass'n.,
208 Fed. 335, nor Sona v. Aluminum Castings Co., 214
Fed. 936, was a case of direct contempt committed in the
presence of the court. No formal charge whatever was
necessary in case of a contempt committed in the presence of the court. The statute does not require that the
"misbehavior," if committed in the presence of the court,
must also be of such character as fo "obstruct the administration of justice." That qualification is required only
as to misbehavior not committed "in the presence of the.
court." Ex parteHudgins, 249 U. S. 378; Ex parte Craig,
274 Fed. 177 distinguished.
Article IV of the Amendments providing that "In all
criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right
* * * to be informed of the nature and cause of the
accusation," is one of those constitutional limitations
which this court said in the Hudgins Case, supra, did not'
apply to a contempt committed "in the presence of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

court." Moreover, the record clearly shows that in truth
and fact the petitioner was fully informed as to the charge
against him before he undertook to state his defense.
As for Article VI, relating to the right of counsel in all
criminal prosecutions, the inapplicability of this amendment, with its several guarantees, including that of trial
by jury, to a proceeding for the summary punishment of
contempt in the presence of the court is so well recognized that discussion of it is idle. One charged with a
direct contempt committed in the presence of the court
has not the right to plead formally to the charge. Here
again the Hudgins Case is in point and decisive. The
most petitioner was entitled to was opportunity to deny
authorship of- the offending letter, since it was delivered
by the hand of- another although in his presence. But
he admitted authorship. There was nothing that might
have been proper ubject matter of any further hearing.
Such hearing as he was entitled to he had.
Petitioner was deprived of no legal right by any failure to transmit to the Circuit Court of Appeals what purported to be an answer admittedly offered for filing after
writ of error had been allowed.
JusTIcE TATr, after stating the case as
above, delivered the opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF

The first objection to the sentence of the court, made
on behalf of the petitioner, is that the ltter written to
the judge is not a contempt of the court. Section 21 of
the Judicial Code contains the following:
"Whenever a party to any action or proceeding, civil
or criminal, shall make and file an affidavit that the judge
before whom the action or proceeding is to be tried or
" heard has a personal bias or prejudice either against him
or in favor of any opposite party to the suit, such judge
shall proceed no further therein, but another iudge shall
be designated in the manner prescribed in the ection last

COOKE v. UNITED STATES.
517

533

Opinion of the Court.

preceding, or chosen in the manner prescribed in section
twenty-three, to hear such matter. Every such affidavit
shall state the facts and the reasons for the belief that
such bias or prejudice exists, and shall be filed not less
than ten days before the beginning of the term of the
court, or good cause shall be shown for the failure to file
it within such time. No party shall be entitled in any
case to file more than one such affidavit; and no such affidavit shall be filed unless accompanied by a certificate of
counsel of record that such affidavit and application are
made in good faith."
It is said that all that the petitioner intended to do by
this letter was to advise the court of the desire of his
client to have another judge try the four cases'yet to be
heard, and of his own desire to avoid the necessity of filing
an affidavit of bias under the above section in those cases
by inducing the regular judge voluntarily to withdraw.
Had the letter contained no more than this, we agree with
the Circuit Court of Appeals that it would not have been
improper.
But we also agree with that court that the letter as written did more than this. The letter was written the morning after the verdict in the heat of the petitioner!s evident
indignation at the judge's conduct of the case and the
verdict. At least two weeks would elapse before it wag
necessary to file an affidavit of bias in the other cases.,
The letter was written and delivered pending further necessary proceedings in the very case which aroused the
writer's anger. "While it was doubtless intended to notify
the judge that he would not be allowed to sit in the other
cases, its tenor shows that it was also written to gratify
the writer's desire to characterize in severe language, perThe next term of the court at Forth'Worth would have been the
second Monday in March (Judicial Code, § 108) so that the affidavit
required by § 21 for disqualification nee.d not have been filed before
March 2nd. The letter was written February 15th.

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

sonally derogatory to the judge, his conduct of the pending case. Though the writer addressed the judge throughout as "Your Honor ", this did not conceal but emphasized the personal reflection intended. The expression
of disappointed hope that the judge was big enough and
broad efiough to overcome his personal prejudice against
petitioner's client and that the client would have the
privilege of rebutting the whispered slanders to which the
judge had lent his ear, and the declaration that his confidence in the judge had been rudely shattered, were personally condemnatory and were calculated to stir the
judge's resentment and anger. Considering the circumstances and the fact that the case was still before the
judge, but without intending to foreclose the right of the
petitioner to be heard with witnesses and argument on
this issue when given an opportunity, we agree with the
Circuit Court' of Appeals that. the letter was contemptuous.
But while we reach this conclusion, we are far from
approving the course of the judge ift the procedure, or
absence of it, adopted by him in sentencing the petitioner. He treated the case as if the objectionable words
had been uttered against him in open court.
To preserve order in the court, room for the proper.
conduct of business, the court must act instantly to suppress disturbance or violence or physical obstruction or
disrespect to the court when occurring in open court.
There is no need of evidence or assistance of counsel
before punishment, because the court has seen the offense. Such summary vindication of the court's dignity
and authority is necessary. It has always been so in the
courts of the common law and the punishment imposed
is due process of law. Such a case had great consideration in the decision of this Court'in Ex parte Terry, 128
U. S. 289. It was there held that a court of the United
States upon the commission of a contempt in open court

COOKE v. UNITED STATES.
517

Opinion of the Court.

might upon its own knowledge of the facts without further proof, without issue or trial, and without hearing an
explanation of the motives of the offender, immediately
proceed to determine whether the facts justified punishment and to inflict such punishment as was fitting under
the law.
The important distinction between the Terry Case
and the one at bar is that this contempt was not in open
court. This is fully brought out in Savin, Petitioner,131
U. S. 267. The contempt there was an effort to deter a
witness, in attendance upon a court of the United States
in obedience to a subpoena, while he was in a waitihg
room for witnesses near the court room, from testifying,
and the offering him money in the hallway of the courthouse as an inducement. This was held to be "misbehavior in the presence of the Court" under § 725 R. S.
(now § 268 of the Judicial Code). The Court, speaking
by Mr. Justice Harlan, said (page 277):
"We are of opinion that, within the meaning of the
statute, the court, at least when in session, is present in
every part of the place set apart for its own use, and for
the use of its officers, jurors and witnesses; and misbehavior anywhere in such place is misbehavior 'In the
presence of the court. It is true that the mode of proceeding for contempt is not the same in every case of
such misbehavior. Where the contempt is committed
directly under the eye or within the view of the court, it
may proceed 'upon its own 'knowledge of the facts and
punish the offender, without further proof, and without
issue or trial in any form,' Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289,
309; whereas, in cases of misbehavior'of which the judge
can not have such personal knowledge, and is informed
thereof only by confession of the party, or by testimony
under oath 'of others, the proper practice is, by rule or
other process, to require the offender to appear and show
cause why he should not be punished. 4 Bl. Com. 286."

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

This difference between the scope of the words of the
statute "in the presence of the court," on the one hand,
and the meaning of the narrower phrase "under the eye
or within the view of the court," or "in open court" or
"in the face of the court," or "in facie curiae," on the
other, is thus clearly indicated and is further elaborated
in the opinion.
We think the distinction finds its reason not any more
in-the ability of the judge to see and hear what happens
in the open court than in the danger that, unless such
an open threat to the orderly procedure of the court and
such a flagrant defiance of the person and presence of the
judge before the public in the "very hallowed place of
justice," as Blackstone has it, is not instantly suppressed
and punished, demoralization of the court's authority
will follow. Punishment without issue or trial was so
contrary to the usual and ordinarily indispensable hearing before judgment, constituting due process, that the
assumption that the court saw everything that went on
in open court was required to justify the exception; but
the need for immediate penal vindication of the dignity
of the court created it.
When the contempt is not in open court, however, there
is no such.right, or reason in dispensing with the necessity
of charges and the opportunity of the accused to present
his defense by witnesses and argument. The exact form
of the procedure in the prosecution of such c-ntempts is
not important. The Court in Randall v. Brigham, 7
Wall. 523, 540; in speaking of what was necessary in. proceedings against an attorney at law for malpractice said:
"All that is requisite to their validity is that, when not
taken for matters occurring in. open court, in the presence
of the judges, notice should be given to the attorney of
the charges made and opportunity afforded him for explanation and defence. The manner in which the pro-ceeding shall be conducted, so that it be without oppression or unfairness, is a matter of judicial regulation."

COOKE v. UNITED STATES.
517

Opinion of the Court.

The Court in Savin, Petitioner,131 U. S. 267, applied
this rule to proceedings for contempt.
Due process of law, therefore, in the prosecution of
contempt, except of that committed in open court, requires that the accused should be advised of the charges
and have a reasonable opportunity to meet them by way
of defense or explanation. We think this includes the
assistance of counsel, if requested, and the right to call
witnesses to give testimony, relevant either to the issue
of complete exculpation or in extenuation of the offense
and in mitigation of the penalty to be imposed. See
Hollingsworth v. Duane, 12 Fed. Cases 359, 360; In re
Stewart, 118 La. 827; Ex parte Clark, 208 Mo. 121.
The proceeding in this case was not conducted in accordance with the foregoing principles. We have sel out
at great length in the statement which precedes this opinion the substance of what took place before, at and after
the sentence. The first step by the court was an order of
attachment and the arrest of the petitioner. It is not
shown that the writ of attachment contained a copy of
the order of the court, and we are not advised that the
petitioner had an exact idea of the purport of the charges
until the order was read. In such a case, and after so
long a delay, it would seem to have been proper practice,
as laid down by Blackstone, 4 Commentaries, 286, to issue
a rule to show cause. The rule should have contained
enough to "n-form the defendant of the nature of the contempt charged. See Hollingsworth v. Duane, 12 Fed.
Cases 367, 369. Without any ground shown for supposing that a rule would not have brought in the alleged
contemnors, it was harsh under the circumstances to order
the arrest.
After the court elicited from the petitioner the admission that he had written the letter, the court refused
him time to secure and consult counsel, prepare his defense and call witnesses, and this although the court itself

.538

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

had taken time to call in counsel as a friend of the court.
The presence of the United States District Attorney also
was secured by the .court on the ground that it was a
criminal case.
The court proceeded on the theory that the admission
that the petitioner had written the letter foreclosed evidence or argument. In cases like this, where the intention with which acts of contempt have been committed
must necessarily and properly have an important bearing
on the degree of guilt and the penalty which should be
imposed, the court can not exclude evidence in mitigation.
It is a proper part of the defense. There was a suggestion
in one of the remarks of the petitioner to the court that,
while he had dictated the letter he had not read it carefully, and that he had trusted to the advice of his partner
in sending it; but he was not given a chance to call witnesses or to make a full statement on this point., He was
interrupted by the court or the counsel of the court in
every attempted explanation. On the other" hand, when
the court came to pronounce sentence, it commented on
the conduct of both the petitioner and his client in making scandalous charges in the pleadings against officials
of the court and charges of a corrupt conspiracy against
the trustee and refereelin bankruptcy, and in employing
a detective to shadow jurymen while in charge of the marshal, and afterwards to detect bribery of them, in proof
of which the court referred to a sworn statement of the
detective in its hands, which had not been submitted to
the petitioner or his client. When Walker questioned
this, the court directed the marshal to prevent further
interruption. It was quite clear that the court considered the facts thus announced as in aggravation -of the
contempt. Yet no opportunity had been given to the
contemnors even to hear these-new charges of the court,
much less to meet or explain them, before the sentence.
We -think the procedure pursued was unfair and oppressive to the petitioner.

COOKE v. UNITED STATES.
517

Opinion of the Court.

Aother feature of this case seems to call for remark.
The power of contempt which a judge must have and exercise in protecting the due and orderly administration of
justice and in maintaining the authority and dignity of
the court is most important and indispensable. But its
exercise is a delicate one and care is needed to avoid arbitrary or oppressive conclusions. This rule of caution is
more mandatory where the contempt charged has in it
the element of personal criticism or attack upon the judge.
The judge must banish the slightest personal impulse to
reprisal, but he should not bend backward and injure the
authority of the court by too great leniency. The substitution of another judge would avoid either tendency
but it is not always possible. Of course where acts of
contempt are palpably aggravated by a personal attack
upon the judge in order to drive the judge out of the
case for ulterior reasons, the scheme should not be permitted to succeed. But attempts of this kind are rare.
All of such cases, however, present difficult questions for
the judge. All we can say upon the whole matter is that
where conditions do not make it inipradticable, or where
the delay may not injure public or private right, a judge
called upon to act in a case of contempt by personal attack upon him, may, without flinching from his duty,
properly ask that one of his fellow judges take his place.
Cornish v. The United States, 299 Fed. 283, 285; Toledo
Company v. The United States, 237 Fed. 986, 988.
The case before us is one in which the issue between the
judge and the parties had come to involve marked personal feeling that did not make for an impartial and calm
judicial consideration and conclusion, as the statement of
the proceedings abundantly shows. We think, therefore,
that when this case again reaches the District Court to
which it must be remanded, the judge who imposed the
sentence herein should invite the senior circuit judge of
the circuit to assign another judge to sit in the second
hearing of the charge against the petitioner.

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the case is remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
YEISER v. DYSART, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 130.

Submitted October 24, 1924.--Decided April 13, 1925.

A State may restrict the fees chargeable by attorneys at law in cases
arising under the state workmen's compensation act without depriving them of property or liberty of contract in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 541.
192 N. W. 953, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska
ordering that the right of the plaintiff in error to practise
as attorney at law be suspended unless he refund to a
client a fee received and paid in violation of a provision
of the state workmen's compensation law, providing that
in cases thereunder the pay of the attorney should be
fixed by the court and invalidating any contract for other
anlfurther pay,

John 0. Yeiser, pro se.
No brief filed for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Upon a report of the respondents, a committee of members of the bar, the plaintiff in error was ordered to be
suspended from the right to practise as attorney unless
he should refund to a client a fee received by him of $620
and interest within a time fixed. The ground of the order
was that by § 3031, Comp. St. 1922, only such sum could
be demanded for services in bringing a suit under the
workmen's compensation act of the State as the Court'

