302

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

If the Philadelphia & Reading Railway Company or the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company, while operating its own
line, had seized and used the coal as the United States
did while they operated those roads, the jurisdiction of
the state court of actions to recover damages or compensation would be clear. And so, under the Transportation
Act, that court properly entertained the proceedings now
before us.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. ARCHIBALD McNEIL & SONS
CO., INC.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT' OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 444.

Argued January 9, 12, .1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.

1. In the absence of a bill of exceptions or special findings, the jurisdiction of the District Court over a law case tried by stipulation
without a jury is determinable, on direct appeal to this Court, only
upon the questions of law apparent on the face of the pleadings.
P. 307.
2. An action in the District Court to recover just compensation for
goods alleged to have been commandeered or requisitioned under
the Lever Act, may be brought, under § 10 of that statute, in the
District where the seizure occurred. Id.
3. Where a statement of claim filed in the District Court under § 10
of the Lever Act sought recovery of the value of coal alleged to have
been requisitioned under that act by the President through the
Fuel Administrator and used by the United States in the operation
of various railroads--"a public use connected with the common
defense,"--held that objections raised by demurrer, in terms questioning the jurisdiction upon the grounds that there had been no
preliminary determination of value, and partial payment, as contemplated by the statute, and that the cause of action was for a
diversion of the coal, under § 25, remediable only by action against
the agent designated by the President under § 206 (a) of the
Transportation Act, 1920,--did not go to the jurisdiction of the
court but concerned the merits. Binderup v. Pathg Exchange,
263 U. S. 291. Id.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. McNEIL & SONS.
302

Argument for the United States.

JuimSDImcmowAL appeal, under Judicial Code, § 238,
from a judgment of the District Court awarding compensation for coal taken by the Government.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solidtor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
Whatever the allegations in the statement of claim to
the effect that the suit was brought under § 10 of the
Lever Act by reason of the fact that the President had
commandeered coal pursuant to the provisions of that act,
when it appeared that the coal was not thus commandeered but was really diverted by the 'Fuel Administrator for the use of railroad companies which were at the
time being operated under federal control, the suit should
have been dismissed, for the District Court had no jurisdiction to entertain a suit against the United States for
coal thus diverted bnd thus used.
If these two railroads had not been under government
-control at this time, and the coal had been diverted to
their use by the Fuel Administrator under preference
regulations and the railroads had not paid for it, it will
undoubtedly be conceded that the only remedy would lie
in separate actions against each railroad company. Compliance with regulations of the Fuel Administrator, even
though a loss is thereby incurred, will not support an
action against the United States. Morrisdae Coal Co. v.
United States, 259 U. S. 188; Pine Hill Coal Co. v. United
States, 259 U. S. 191.
The fact that the railroads were under federal control
does not alter the principle. While federal control lasted
the plaintiff could have sued the Director General for
this coal under the Act of March 21, 1918, c. 25, 40 Stat.
451, and General Order No. 50. Missouri Pacific 1.
Co. v. Ault, 256 U. S. 554. After federal control ceased
the plaintiff could have sued the Agent designated by the

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267,U. S.

President under § 206 (a) of the Transportation Act of
February 28, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 461.
Each railroad operated under federal control was operated as a separate entity. Missouri Pacific R. Co. v.
Ault, supra. Therefore on a cause of action arising out
of federal operation of the Boston & Iaine Railroad
suit must be brought against the Agent designated by the
President, and service must be had on an agent of the
Boston & Maine Railroad or some person designated by
the President, and the action must be brought in a court
which would have 'jurisdiction over the Boston & Maine
Railroad.
The Lever Act was passed August 10, 1917, while the
railroads were under private operation. At that time no
suit could have been maintained against the United States
under the Lever Act arising out of the use by a railroad
corporation of coal obtained by it through the Fuel
Administrator. Pine Hill Coal Co. v. United States,
supra.
After the Federal Control Act of March 21, 1918, and
General Order No. 50, any suit for coal used upon any
railroad under federal operation must have been brought
against the Director General in a court which but for
federal operation would have jurisdiction of a suit against
the railroad company, and after federal control ceased,
on March 1, 1920, the suit must have been brought
against the Agent appointed by the President under that
Act. Here was a complete, adequate, and, we claim, an
exclusive remedy.
Mr. George Deming, for defendant in error.
Charles H. Burr was on the brief.,
MR. JUSTICE McRYoLDS

Mr.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Seeking to recover $17,422.32 as compensation for.
3,840.9 tons of" bituminous coal; defendant in error, a

UNITED STATES v. McNEIL & SONS.
302

-

305

Opinion of.the Court.

Connecticut corporation, instituted this action against the
United States by filing statement of claim in the United
States District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
It allegedThat jurisdiction of the action Arises under the Fifth
Amendment and the tenth section of the Lever Act, c. 53,
40 Stat. 276, 279.
That the coal in question had been shipped from the
mines under valid contracts during the first part of
October, 1919, 'was owned by the claimant, and prior to
October 30, 1919, was 'at Port Richmond Piers, Philadelphia, or at Port Reading Piers, New Jersey.
That " by virtue of the authority conferred by the
aforesaid Act of Congress, the President of the United
States, acting by and through the Fuel Administrator at
Port Richmond Piers, Philadelphia, or at Port Reading
Piers, New Jersey, commandeered and requisitioned" this
coal during November and December, 1919. "The said
coal was commandeered and requisitioned from or through
.the Commissioner of the Tidewater Coal Exchange, the
Superintendent of Transportation of the Philadelphia &
Reading Railroad Company, the Shipping and Freight
Agent of the United States Railroad Administration at
Port Reading Terminal Piers, New Jersey, the Bituminous
Coal Distribution Committee, the Regional Coal Committee, the Philadelphia & Reading Railroad- Company,
the Port Reading Railroad Company, the Federal Treas.urer at Port Reading Terminal Piers of the United States
Railroad Administration, and the Jamison Coal & Coke
Company, the vendors of the said coal to" the plaintiff.
All of the aforesaid coal was received, accepted, retained
and used by the United States of America, and used in
the operation of various railroads, to wit: Boston & Maine
Railroad, Maine Central Railroad; which said use was a
public use connected with the common defense."
That the fair and reasonable value of the coal was
$4.536 per ton f. o. b. the mines; that nothing has been

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

'

267 U. S.

paid to claimant on account of said coal so commandeered
and requisitioned, and it should have judgment for the
value thereof with interest.
A motion by the United States to dismiss the action
upon the ground that the claimant was a citizen of Connecticut and therefore the court lacked jurisdiction, was
overruled. Thereupon, the United States interposed a
demurrer and set up that the court had no jurisdiction of
the cause; that the statement of claim showed no cause
of action; that under the Lever Act district courts of the
United States have jurisdiction of actions only after determination by the President of the value of the property
taken, expression of dissatisfaction by the owner, and payment of seventy-five per centum of the determined
amount; that the complaint sets forth a diversion of coal
under § 25 of the Lever Act, not a requisition under § 10,
and that th remedy, id any, was to sue the Agent designated by~he.Presdent under § 206 (a) of the Transportation Act, 1940, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 461. This was overruled and the United Stfes answered.
It was stipulated. by counsel that, "a jury trial being
waived, the issues of fact in this case may be tried and
determined by -the court without the intervention of a
jury, in accordance with §§ 649 and 700 of the United
States Revised Stattites." The cause was heard by the
court upon the pleadings and evidence. What purports
to be a transcript of the latter is printed; but it was
not made part of the record by. bill of exceptions. The
trial judge filed an opinion and entered judgment
for the claimant. No special findings were asked or
made.
The cause is here by direct writ of error. The parties
agree that only the question of jurisdiction is open. For
the United States it is said, "the court below was without
jurisdiction to render the judgment, and that is the sole
question presented.'

BUCK v. KUYKENDALL.
302

Syllabus.

As the record contains no bill of exceptions, upon this
direct writ of error we can review only questions of law apparent on the face of the pleadings in so far as they directly relate to the court's jurisdiction. Insurance Company v. Folsom, 18 Wall. 237; Law v. United States,
266 U. S. 494; Judicial Code, § 238.
Jurisdiction was invoked under the Lever Act. The
claim is for something alleged to have been commandeered or requisitioned by. the President, as provided by § 10, and this section confers jurisdiction without qualification upon district courts to hear and determine controversies directly resulting from such action.
Houston Coal Co. v. United States, -62 U. S. 361, 365.
Proceedings in the district where the'seizure actually occurred are not forbidden, and seem entirely appropriate.
The allegations of the complaint were sufficient to set
out a substantial claim under a federal statute. Accordingly, there was jurisdiction in the court to pass upon the
questions so presented. Bind-erup v. Pathe Exchange, 263
U. S. 291, 305.
Affirmed.

BUCK v. KUYKENDALL, DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC
WORKS OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 345.

Argued November 25, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.

1. Section 4, of c. 111, Laws of Washington, 1921, which prohibits
common carriers for hire from using the highways-by auto vehicles between fixed'Oinini or over regular routes without having
obtained from the Director of Public Works a certificate declaring
that public conveniefice a
necessity require such operation, is,
primarily, not a regulation to secure safety on highways, or to
conserve them, but a prohibition of comoetition, and, as applied
to one desirous of using the highways as a common carrier of pas-

