SANFORD & BROOKS v. UNITED STATES. 455
452

Counsel for Parties.

natural and gradual processes known as erosion and accretion as specified in the second, third and fourth paragraphs of the decree rendered herein March 12, 1923,
261 U. S.340.
It is further ordered that the Clerk of this court do
transmit to the chief magistrates of the States of Texas
and Oklahoma copies of this decree, duly authenticated
under the seal of this court, together with copies of the
maps which accompanied the report of the commissioners.

SANFORD & BROOKS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 175.

Argued January 15, 1925.-Decided March 9, 1925.

1. Where a Government contract for dredging expressly required

prompt, written protest against any order for work outside the
specifications, written modification of the contract if altered materially, and written orders for extra work, held that oral protests
by the contractor, a claim for additional compensation and a favorable advrisory opinion thereon by a government official, were
insufficient to establish that these contract provisions were inapplicable or waived, or that a new, oral agreement for compensation
quantum meruit was substituted by implication. P. 457.
2. A motion to remand to the Court of Claims for further findings
should be submitted at the first term of the entry of the case so
that the Court may determine whether the motion shall be passed
upon in advance, or postponed until .the.hearing on the merits.
P. 458.
58 Ct. Cls. 158, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting a claim for additional compensation for dredging.

Mr. William L. Marbury, with whom Mr. Horace S.
Whitman and Mr. Charles Clagett were on the brief, for
appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Sanford & Brooks Co. agreed with the United States
to dredge a channel at a fixed rate per cubic yard of
material dredged. Payment for the number of yards
dredged-was made at the contract rate. Later, this suit
was brought to recover additional sums, as upon a
quantum meruit. One claim was that the material to be
removed Within the contract lines hd been misdescribed
in the specifications; and the rule applied in United
States v. Atlantic Dredging Co., 253 U. S. 1, and United
States v. Spearin, 248 U. S. 132, was invoked. Another
claim was that, through a mistake of the Government's
representative, work had been done outside the limits
prescribed by the contract, and that this was more
burdensome. The Court of Claims, after a hearing upon
the evidence, entered judgment for the defendant. 5&
Ct. Cls. 158. The case is here on appeal under ยง 242 of
the Judicial Code. The appeal was filed in this Court
on September 20, 1923.. It was not reached for argument until January.15, 1925. On January 9, 1925, the
plaintiff filed, with its brief on the merits, a motion to
remand. The document, including appendices, contained 65 printed pages.
Th. reliance in this Court was wholly upon the motion
to rei'and. Thi. claim on account of Work inside the
contract lines was not insisted upon here. The claim
for -work putside the contract lines was urged in the
brief on the merits, but at the argument plaintiff conceded that, upon the findmigs of fact made,,there could
be no recovery. The contention then presented was
that.this Cou~t could not come to a -proper decisioh on

SANFORD & BROOKS v. UNITED STATES.
455

457

Opinion of the Court.

this claim without having findings as to the existence or
non-existence of eight additional alleged facts; and that
to this end the cause should be remanded to the lower
court. The Government objected to the allowance of
the motion to remand on the grounds that the findings
already made were definite; that they included all material facts; and that, if the additional facts asserted
were found, these would not change the legal result.
The objections are, in our opinion, sound.
Plaintiff 'asserts that the additional findings would
show that, when th6 erroneous location of the work was
discovered, it made oral protest to the contracting officer
of the Government against continuance of the work
outside the contract lines; that it-protested orally against
payment for such work at the contract price; that, during the progress of the work, it made claim for payment
upon a quantum meruit basis; that, seven months after
the completion of the work in question, the Judgd Advocate General gave an opinion on this claim favorable
to the plaintiff; that the Assistant Secretary of War
approved of the opinion; that he directed that negotiations be had with plaintiff concerning the amount of
additional compensation to be paid; but that no agreement was rebched. These, with other minor additions
to the facts as found, are relied upon by plaintiff to show
that, as to this work, the express provisions in the written contract which required prompt written protest
against any order for work outside of the specifications,
written modification of the contract if it was altered materialy, and written orders for extra work, were all inapplicable or waived; and that*a new oral agreement providing for compensation quantum meruit was substituted
by implicalion. We are of opinion that the findings
sought, if made, would be of no avail to plaintiff. Oral
protests, a claim for additional compensation and a fa-

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

2671U. S.

vorable advisory opinion thereon, would be facts clearly
insufficient to establish plaintiff's contentions.
Moreover if those facts could conceivably affect the
result, the, motion should, as a matter of discretion, be
denied because of the delay in filing it. A motion to remand for further findings, even if based wholly upon
matter included in the original record on appeal, should
be submitted at the first term of the entry of the case
so that this Court may determine whether the motion
shall be passed upon in advance of the hearing on the
merits or be postponed until such hearing. Compare
United States v. Adams, 9 Wall. 554, 559. Where, as in
this case, the motion is based largely upon matter not
appearing in the record on appeal, the reasons for insisting upon promptness in making an application to remand are particularly persuasive. Diligence. in this respect.is essential to the orderly and expeditious administration of justice. Compare Rule 14 of this Court gov-,
erning petitions- for certiorari for diminution of the"
record. Chappell v. United States, 160 U. S. 499.
Affi7med.
HOROWITZ v. UNITED STATES..
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 74. Argued October 15, 1924.-Decided March 9, 1925.
1. The United States, when sued as a contractor, can not be held
liable for an obstruction to the performance of the particular contract resulting from its. public and general acts is a sovereign.
P. 460.
2. So held, where the Government, having sold silk to the claimant,
did not ship it promptly; owing to an embargo placed on freight
shipments of silk by the United States Railroad 'Administration,
so that the claimant lost his opportunity to resell at a profit..
58 Ct. Cls. 189, affirmed.

