WORK v. RIVES.
132

Syllabus.

so. The history and terms of the Volstead Act are not
consistent with the suggestion that it was the purpose of
Congress to'grant the power here claimed for enforcement
officers. The facts known when the -rrest occurred were
wholly insufficient to engender reasonable belief that
,plaintiffs in error were -committing a misdemeanor, and
the legality of the arrest cannot be supported by facts
ascertained through the search Which followed..
To me it seems clear enough that the judgment should
be reversed.
I am. authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND
concurs in this opinion.
-

WORK, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR v.
UNITED STATES EX REL. RIVgS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 272. Argued November 25, 26, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. Where the duties imposed upon an executive officer by a statute
granting gratuities based on equitable and moral considerations
include the duty of construing the statute itself in its execution,
his construction of it is a discretionary act which can not bce controlled by the writ of mandamus. P. 177.
2. Under ยง 5 of the. Dent Act, March 2, 1919, c. 94, 40 Stat. 1272,
refusal by the Secretary of the Interior to allow a claim for money
spent to obtain a release from a contract to buy manganese land,
the refusal being based upon the view that expenditures for real
estate or mining rights were'not "for or upon" property, but,
were speculative, within the meaning of the act-was conclusive
against the' claimant. P. 178.
3. The amendment of November 23, 1921, c. 137, 42 Stat. 322, did
not change -the act in this regard. P. 182.
4. This case, upon the facts admitted by the demurrer to the answer,
is not within the class allowing mandamus to compel an officer
to take actifn and-exercise his discretionj or an inferior tribunal
to take jurisdiction." P. 184.
54 App. D'C.-84, 295. Fed. 225 reversed.

176

OCTOBER. TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia which affirmed a judgment of
the Supreme Court of the District in mandamus, directing the Secretary of the Interior to consider and allow
relatpor's claim, under the Dent Act, in so far as it included money spent to obtain a.release from a contract
he had made before the Armistice, to buy land containing
manganese.

Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for plaintiff in ezror.
Mr. Leslie C. Garnett, with whom Mr. Burgess TV.
Marshallwas on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal under section 250 of the Judicial
Code, par. 6, from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia, affirmed by the Court of Appeals, granting a mandamus compelling the Secretary of
the Interior to consider and allow a claim for net losses
suffered by Logan Rives, the relator, in producing and
preparing to produce manganese at the instance of thie
Government for war purposes, under section 5 of the Dent
Act (March 2, 1919, ch. 94, 40 Stat. 1272).
Relator's petition shows that he incurred losses aggregating $55,204.15, buf that the Secretary awarded him
only $23,047.36, refusing to allow him; among other items,
$9,600 which he had to expend in obtaining a release from
a contract to buy land containing manganese, after the
land had lost most of its value because of the armistice.
The mandamus asked is to compel consideration and
allowance of the claim for this particular item.
The Secretary's answer avers that the relator received
and accepted the $23,047.36 awarded March, 1920, but

WORK v. RIVES.
175

Opinion of the Court.

refused to waive any right to further award under any
subsequent legislation which might provide for further
payment. The answer further denies that the Secretary
refused to consider the claim, but avers that he did so
fully and rejected it. The relator demurred to the answer and on that demurrer judgment followed and the
writ issued.
Mandamus -issues to compel an officer to perform a
purely ministerial duty. It can not be used to compel
or control a duty in the discharge of which by law he is
given discretion. The duty may be discretionary within
limits. He can not transgress those limits, and if he does
so, he may be controlled by injunction or mandamus to
keep within them. The power of the court to intervene,
if at all, thus depends upon what statutory discretion he
has. Under some statutes, the discretion extends to a
final construction by the officer of the statute he is executing. No court in such a case can control by mandamus his interpretation, even if it may think it erroneous.
The cases range, therefore, from such wide discretion as
that just described to cases where the duty is purely ministerial, where the officer can do only one thing, which on
refusal he may be compelled to do. They begin on one
side with Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 524, in
which Congress directed the Postmaster General to make
some credit entries in an account found to be just by the
Solicitor of the Treasury. This Court held that the duty
was ministerial with no discretioii and required the Postmaster General. to make the entries. On the other side,
is Decaturv. Paulding,Secretary of the Navy, 14 Peters,
497. Congress there provided for general naval pensions
by geheral Act, and by resolution of the same day granted
a special pension for the widow of Commodore Decatur.
She received the pension under the general law and then
applied for the special pension, which was refused by the

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Secretary of the Navy, on the ground that she was given
an election of one of two funds and she had elected. She
sought by mandamus to compel the Secretary, who under
the law- administered the Naval Pension fund, to allow
the special pension. This Court held that Congress intended the Secretary to construe the statutes and to allow
the pensions accordingly, and that although the court
might, as a matter of legal construction, differ from his
conclusion, it could not by mandamus or injunction constrain him in his exercise of his discretion. Between these
two early and leading authorities, illustrating the extremes, are decisions in which the discretion is'greater
than in the Kendall Case and less than in the Decatur
Case, and its extent and the scope of judicial action in
imiting it depend upon a proper interpretation of the
particular statute and the congressional purpose.
The Dent Act was passed by Congress in an effort to
do justice and equity to the many persons who could not
obtain from the Government compensation for supplies
or services furnished or losses incurred in helping the Govcrnment during the war, because of a lack of enforceable
contracts or equities. As to supplies and services furnished, there was to be a settlement made by the Secretary
of War, and if this did not satisfy the claimant, he was
given Aright under section 2 to sue in the Court of Claims
to recover greater compensation. Section 3 gave the Secretary powei'to settle fairly and equitably claims of foreign governments and their nationals for 'supplies and
services rendered to the American Expeditionary forces
whether by contract entered into in accordance with applicable statutory provisions or not. By section 4, the
Secretary was given power to protect sub-contractors in
his awards.
By section 5, provision was made, not to pay for supplies or services rendered directly to the cG5verf.ment, but
to relieve a class of persons who were invited by the Gov-

WORK v. RIVES.
175

179.

Opinion of the Court.

ernment to invest money in the production and preparing
for the production of certain metals or materials difficult
to obtain, and needed for the war, and who had thereupon
incurred expense therein and had suffered losses because
of the coming of the armistice and the consequent destruction of the market for such metals.
The said Secretary was to make adjustments and payments in each case as he should determine to be just and
equitable; and the decision of the Secretary was to be
"conclusive and final." There were five provisos: The
first imposed a limit of total expenditure under the Act.
The second limited claims to those filed within three
months after the passage of the Act.
The third proviso declared: "That no claim shall be
allowed or paid by said Secretary unless it shall appear
to the satisfaction of the said Secretary that the expenditures so made or obligations so incurred by the claimant
were made in good faith for or upon property which contained
.
manganese . . . in sufficient quantities to be of commercial importance." The fourth proviso was: " That no claims shall be paid unless it shall
appear to the satisfaction of said Secretary that moneys
were invested or obligations were incurred subsequent to
April 6, 1917, and prior to November 12, 1918 in a legitimate, attempt to produce
....
manganese
for the prosecution of the war, and that no profits of any
kind shall be included in the allowance of any of said
claims, and that no investment for merely speculative
purposes shall be recognized in any manner by said Secretary." The fifth proviso declared that the settlement of
any claim under the section,should not bar the Gdvernment through any authorized agency or any Congressional committee thereafte duly appointed from the review of such settlement, nor the right to recover any
money paid by the Government* to 6ny party under the
section if the*Government had been defrauded.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

The -last paragraph of the section declared "That
nothing in this section shall be construed to confer jurisdiction upon any court to entertain a suit against the
United States" and closed with a proviso that in determining the net losses of any claimant, the Secretary
should take into consideration and charge tohim the then
market value of any ores or minerals on hand belonging
to him, and the salvage or usable value of his machinery
or other appliances claimed to have been purchased to
comply with the request of the Government.
On November 23, 1921, after the first award in* this
case, section 5 was amended (Ch. 137, 42 Stat. 322) by
adding another proviso, that all claimants who in response
to the request of any government agency mentioned in
the Act expended money "in producing or preparing to
produce" manganese, and had mailed their claims in
time, "if the proof in support of said claims clearly shows
them to be based upon action taken in response to such
request . . . shall be reimbursed such net losses as
they may have incurred and are in justice and equity
entitled to from the appropriation in said Act. If in
claims passed upon under said Act awards have- been
denied or made on rulings contrary to the provisions of
this amendment, or through miscalculation, the Secretary
of the Interior may award proper amounts or additional
amounts."
This amendment was brought about on the recommendation of the Secretary of the Interior, because he
had felt obliged, under section 5 as it was, to reject some
600 claims for failure within the time limit to show a
direct personal request or demand upon the claimant by
the government authorities named in the Act and a
response thereto by the claimant and because the Comptroller had refused to pay any changed award of the
Secretary made after a rehearing or to correct miscalculation.

WORK v. RIVES.
175

Opinion of the Court.

It is urged that the refusal of the Secretary to allow the
loss of $9,600 on the real estate contract is in the teeth of
the third. proviso, which requires him to allow for expenditures, made or obligations incurred "for and upon
property" containing manganese in sufficient quantities
to be of commercial importance. The Interior Department had held from the beginning that this proviso did
not embrace money spent for real estate or mining rights.
The ruling was based in part at least on the legislative
history of the bill, which showed that it originally contained an express provision for expenditures for real estate
as a proper element in calculating the net losses to be reimbursed, and that this provision was objected to as involving too speculative a subject matter and it was
stricken out. The Department's view was that expenditures "for and upon "property containing manganese and
other metals did not include cost of real estate or mining
rights because too speculative under the limitations of the
fourth. proviso and were intended to be confined to expenditures for construction, equipment and machinery in
development of such property.
We are asked to reject this interpretation as wholly at
variance with the natural and necessary meaning of the
words and to confirm the courts below in enforcing a view
more liberal to the claimant.
The above summory of section 5 clearly shows thit
Congress was seeking to save the beneficiaries from losses
which it would have been under no legal obligation to
make good if a private person. It was a gratuity based
on equitable and moral considerations. United States v.
Realty Companj, 163 U. S.,427, 439; Allen v. Smith,
173 U. S. 389, 402. Congress did not wish to create a
legal claim. It was not dealing with vested rights. It
did not, as it did with the claims for supplies and services
d#rectly furnished the Govermrnent under the first and
_second sections of the Act, make the losses recoverable in

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

a court, but expressly provided otherwise. It dealt with
the subject with the utmost caution. It hedged the granting of the equitable gratuity with limitations to prevent
the use of the statute for the recovery of doubtful or
fraudulent claims or merely speculative losses. It vested
the Secretary with power to reject all losses except as he
was satisfied that they were just and equitable and it
made his decision conclusive and final. Final against
whom? Against the claimant. He could not resort to
court to review the Secretary's decision. This was expressly forbidden. By the fifth proviso, however, the
Government was permitted through any of its agencies
or ven by a committee of Congress duly authorized, to
review the settlement by. the Secretary and by necessary
implication to reverse it. If the Government was defrauded, it was authorized to sue to recover any money
paid under the award.
Congress was Occupying toward the proposed beneficiaries of section 5 the attitude rather of a benefactor,
than of a debtor at law. Congress intended the Secretary
to act for it, and to construe the meaning of the words
used to describe the elements of the net losses to be ascertained and to give effect to his interpretation without the
intervention of the courts. This statute presents a case
of as wide discretion as was held to have been vested in
the Secretary of the Navy in the Decatur Case.
Nor does the amendment of 1921 change the effect of
the Act in this regard. His counsel insist that it was
adopted in order to relieve claimants from previous narrow rulings of the Secretary. There is nothing in the
amendment that indicates the Congressional purpose to
do more than it purports to do, i. e., to enable the Secretary to entertain claims for losses incurred at the instance
of any government agencies whether direct and personal
or by public invitation, and to enable the Secretary to
grant rehearings, correct miscalculation and award addi-

WORK V. RIVES.
175

Opinion of the Court.

tional amounts. The amendments still left all claims to
his sense of justice and equity.
Two cases upon which the relator relies, do not aid
him. They depend on the construction of the particular
statute. In Work v. Mosier, 261 U. S. 352, we held that
the statutory direction that certain income due minors of
the Osage Indians be paid was clear and positive and it
was -not left to the Secretary of the Interior to vary it,
i. e., he was not given discretion finally to construe it.
In Work v. McAlester, 262 U. S. 200, it was held that by
virtue of the statute a lessee had a vested right to buy the
land at an original appraisement and that the Secretary
had no authority to affect that right by ordering another
appraisement.
Ness v. Fisher,223 U. S. 683; Riverside Oil Company
v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S. 316; Alaska Smokeless Company
v. Lane, 250 U. S. 549; and Hall v. Payne, 254 U. S. 343,
were all cases in which it was sought to control and reverse rulings of the Secretary of the Interior, on the
ground that he had in the administration of the land
laws made a ruling contrary to law against an applicant
for action by him. In each case it was held that as the
statute intended to vest in the Secretary the discretion
to construe the land laws and make such rulings, no court
could reverse or control them by mandamus in the absence
of anything to show that they were capricious or arbitrary.
It was pointed out that a mandamus could not be made
to serve the function of a writ of error, and the mere fact
that the court might deem the ruling erroneous in law
gave it no power to intervene. These cases are supported
by earlier authorities to the same effect. United States
ex rel. Tucker v. Seaman, 17 How. 225; Gaines v. Thompson, 7 Wall. 347; Litchfield v. Register and Receiver, 9
Wall. 575; United States .ex rel. Dunlap v. .Black, 128
U. S. 40. All rest upon the Decatur Case. Compare
United States v. Babcock, 250 U. S. 328, 331. There is

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

nothing in the award by the Secretary in the case at bar
which would justify characterizing it as arbitrary or capricious or fraudulent or an abuse of discretion. The Secretary's view that it was not just or equitable to include
loss by a land purchase within the gratuity of the Government as defined by the statute must therefore Drevail
against mandamus.
Lane v. Hoglund, 244U. S. 174, Ballinger v. Frostr 216
U. S. 240; Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249, Roberts v.
United States, 176 U. S. 221, Butterworth v. Hoe, 112
U. S. 50, United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, wete all
cases in which the court found that all the conditions
had been fulfilled upon which the relator in the mandamus
was entitled to call upon the officer to do an act beneficial
to the relator and that the act was thus a ministerial
duty, as in the Kendall Case.
There is a class of cases in which a relator in mandamus
has successfully sought to compel action by an officer who
has discretion concededly conferred on him by law. The
relator in such cases does not ask for a decision any particular way but only that it be made one way or the other.
Such are Louisville. Cement Company v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 246 U. S. 638, and Interstate Commerce Commissionv. Humboldt S. S. Company, 224 U. S.
474. They follow the decision in Commissioner of Patents v. Whiteley, 4 Wall. 522. They are analogous to
Hohorst, Petitioner, 150 U. S. 653; Parker, Petitioner,
131 U. S. 221 ; Ex parte Parker, 120 U. S. 737, and others
which hold that mandamus may issue to an inferior judicial tribunal if it refuses to take jurisdiction when by
law it ought to do so, or where, having obtained jurisdiction, it refuses to-proceed in its exercise. It is sought
to bring the present case within this class by the averment in the petition that the Secretary, of the Interior
has refused to take jurisdiction of the claim for the loss.
of $9,600 through the real estate contract. This aver-

WORK v. CHESTATEE CO,
175

Statement of the Case.

ment is met by a denial in the answer and the affirmative
allegation that the Secretary did consider the claim and
disallowed it for cause deemed by him to be good. This
mandamus was granted by the courts below on demurrer
to the answer. Its allegations must be taken as admitted. Moreover, it is clearly shown by the exhibits
to the pleadings that the Secretary decided that on its
merits the claim was not for the kind of loss WIch Congress intended the Secretary to reim1nurse.
Our conclusion makes it unnecessary for us to consider the contention of the Government that the relator
here is estopped to urge the present claim by his acceptance of the award already made.
Reversed.

WORK, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v.
UNITED STATES EX REL. CHESTATEE PYRITES & CHEMICAL CORPORATION:
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THD DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 401. Argued November 26, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. Where the answer of an officer to a petition for a mandamus
shows clearly that the claim sought to be enforced was considered
and denied by him, the writ, if granted on demurrer to the answer,
can not be sustained as merely requiring that he take jurisdiction
to decide the claim. See P. 186.
2. Under ยง 5 of the Dent Act, a decision of the Secretary of the
Interior that interest paid on capital borrowed is not part of the
net losses incurred by a claimant for and in the production of
mineral, is a discretionary decision not reviewable by mandamus.
Work v. Rives, ante, p. 175. P. 187.
54 App. D. C. 380; 298 Fed. 839, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment in the Court of Appeals of

the District of Columbia which affirmed- a judgment of
the Supreme Court of the District, in mandamus, re-

