WORK v. CHESTATEE CO,
175

Statement of the Case.

ment is met by a denial in the answer and the affirmative
allegation that the Secretary did consider the claim and
disallowed it for cause deemed by him to be good. This
mandamus was granted by the courts below on demurrer
to the answer. Its allegations must be taken as admitted. Moreover, it is clearly shown by the exhibits
to the pleadings that the Secretary decided that on its
merits the claim was not for the kind of loss WIch Congress intended the Secretary to reim1nurse.
Our conclusion makes it unnecessary for us to consider the contention of the Government that the relator
here is estopped to urge the present claim by his acceptance of the award already made.
Reversed.

WORK, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v.
UNITED STATES EX REL. CHESTATEE PYRITES & CHEMICAL CORPORATION:
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THD DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 401. Argued November 26, 1924.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. Where the answer of an officer to a petition for a mandamus
shows clearly that the claim sought to be enforced was considered
and denied by him, the writ, if granted on demurrer to the answer,
can not be sustained as merely requiring that he take jurisdiction
to decide the claim. See P. 186.
2. Under ยง 5 of the Dent Act, a decision of the Secretary of the
Interior that interest paid on capital borrowed is not part of the
net losses incurred by a claimant for and in the production of
mineral, is a discretionary decision not reviewable by mandamus.
Work v. Rives, ante, p. 175. P. 187.
54 App. D. C. 380; 298 Fed. 839, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment in the Court of Appeals of

the District of Columbia which affirmed- a judgment of
the Supreme Court of the District, in mandamus, re-

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of -the Court.

267 U. S.

quiring the Secretary of the Interior to consider and allow
a claim for interest, under the Dent Act.
Mr. Merrill E. Otis, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Edgar Watkins, with whom Mr. Hoke Smith and
Mr. Mac Asbill were on the brief, for appellee.
'DUR CHm

JusTIcF TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal under section 250 of the Judicial Code,
'$ar.6, from a writ of mandamus compelling the Secretary
of the Interior to consider and allow a claim of the Chestatee Pyrites & Chemical Corporation, under section 5 of
the Dent Act. It presents questions very similar to those
heard in Work v. United States ex rel. Rives, just decided, ante, p. 175.
The relator owned a pyrites mine before the war. In
compliance with the request of the Government to enlarge
its plant to meet the war necessities, it borrowed the sum
of $695,000, on which it obligated itself to pay'interest at
the rate of 6 per cent. per annum. After three hearings
before the Secretary of the Interior, it was awarded $693,313.79. In making the award the item of interest claimed
of more than $40,000 on the amount borrowed was disallowed. The mandamus herein issued to compel the consideration and allowance of this interest.
It is sought in this case, as it was in the Rives Case, to
avoid the objection that the mandamus would control
and restrict the statutory discretion vested in the Secre,tary by the averment that he had not taken jurisdiction
of the claim for interest and had not considered it. This
caselike the Rives Case, was heard on demurrer to the
answer, and the answer shQws clearly that the claim for

WORK v. CHESTATEE CO,
185

Opinion of the Court.

interest was fully considered by two Secretaries of the
Interior and denied.
The only issue is whether the Secretary had discretion
under section 5 finally to*determine whether interest pid
upon the capital borrowed is to be considered as"part of
the net losses incurred by the relator in preparing for and
producing the pyrites. We think he had.
Great reliance was placed by the courts below on the
ruling of this Court in United States v. New York, 160 U.
S. 598. That was an appeal from a decision of the Court
of Claims in a case brought by the State of New York
against the United States under a statute of the United
States, by which the Secretary of the Treasury was directed to pay out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the Governor of any State, the costs,
charges and expenses properly incurred by such State for
enrolling, subsisting, clothing; supplying, arming, equipping, paying and transporting its troops employed in aiding to suppress the insurrection against the United States.
It was held that the State could recover interest on the
bonds issued by it to do the things provided for in the
Act.
The Act did not vest in the Secretary of the Treasury
discretion finally to,decide the extent of the indebtedness,
and the claim was.duly transferred to the Court of Claims
in order that a judgment might be rendered thereon, The
judgment was carried to this Court. The issue, therefore,
was merely a question of law whether under the statute
interest was payable, and it was held that it was.
The circumstances of the case were different from this,
and it is doubtful whether the conclusion as to interest
in such case would be applicable to the claim made by
the relator, even if we could hear it on its merits. But it
is not here on its merits. The question was one for the
Secretary of the Interior to decide, and that finally.
.Rw,ersed.

