LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v U. S. 395
387

Syllabus.

absence of an agreement to the contrary, a deposit, not
made specifically applicable to some other purpose, may
be applied by the bank in payment of the indebtedness
of the depositor. See Studley v. Boylston Bank, 229,
U. S. 523, 528; New York County Bank v. Massey, 192
U. S. 138, 145; National Mahawie Bank v. Peck, 127
Mass. 298, 300. But a bank having notice that a deposit
is held by one for the use of or as security for another
has only such right of set-off as is not inconsistent with
the rights of the latter. Here, the banks had knowledge
of the agreements, under which these balances constituted security for the advance made by the United States.
By acceptance of the moneys furnished in accordance
with the agreement, their right of set-off was made subject to the rights of the United States and the obligations
of the contractor. See National Bank v. Insurance Co.,
104 U. S. 54, 71; Union Stock Yards Bank v. Gillespie,
137 U. S. 411, 421; Boyle v. Northwestern National Bank,
125 Wis. 498, 507. The appropriation of these balances
by the banks cannot be sustained.
Decree reversed.
LOUISVILLE

& NASHVILLE

RAILROAD

COM-

PANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 29. Argued December 4, 1924-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. Contracts for sale and delivery of coal to the United States,
construed, with the advertisements, specifications and conduct of
the parties, as providing for delivery on cars at the mine; so that
title passed then and the railroad transportation, on government
bills of lading, was subject to land-grant rates. P. 397.
2. Provisions in such contracts for service by the vendor in transferring the coal to barges at railroad destination, compensation
therefor to be included in price of coal; and reserving right of
United States to test coal after transportation and reject it if

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

not up to specificationsi-held not inconsistent with passing of
title at time of delivery on cars at the mine. P. 400.
3. Where the United States contracted for coal to be shipped by
rail and delivered at a vessel, use of government bills of lading,
and payment of freight by the United States at land-grant rates,
were not enough to sustain a finding that the coal was the property
of the United States when hauled by the railroad. P. 401.
4. When a railroad company, entitled to charge the United States
the full tariff rate, charges and receives the reduced land-grant
rate with full knowledge of the facts, it is bound by its acquiescence
and cannot recover the difference. Id.
5. Where, under its tariff, the right of a railroad to charge extra
for switching and transferring coal at destination depends upon
road-haul revenue being equal to as much as a stated rate per
ton, land-grant deductions from the latter allowed the United States
are not to be considered in determining its liability t6 such extra
charges. P. 402.
57 Ct. Cls. 268, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting the Railroad's claim for transportation, switching and
handling of freight for the United States.
Mr. Benjamin Carter,for appellant.
Mr. BlacTkburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor
General, for the United States, submitted.
Mn . JusTicE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This action was brought in the Court of Claims to recover the amount by which tariff-rate freight charges on
certain coal were reduced by government land-grant deductions; and also to recover certain charges for switching
and handling. The court made findings of fact, and gave
judgment for defendant. 57 Ct. Cls. 268. One of the
lines of appellant's railroad enters Alabama from the
north and extends southerly through Decatur, Birmingham and Flomaton to Pensacola, Florida, and thence
easterly to River Junction, Florida. This is a land-aided

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v U. S. 397
395

Opinion of the Court.

line. Appellant has another line extending southwesterly
from Flomaton to Mobile. At Mobile and Pensacola, it
owns wharves and hoists for transferring coal from cars
to boats, and has constructed switches from its main line
to the wharves. All of these werebuilt without government aid. The wharves and hoists at Mobile are operated by a coal company and those at Pensacola by appellant.
All the coal in question came from mines in the Birmingham district and was purchased by the United States
for engineering work at Mobile, Pensacola and other
places on or near the Gulf, except 250 tons bought for the
use of the U, S. S. Tonopah. It was transported on government bills of lading and was carried in whole or in
part by the use of such land-aided railroad. The coal
was furnished to the United States under a contract with
the Gulf States Coal Company of March 15, 1915, a contract with the Imperial Coal and Coke Company of.
August 21, 1916, advertisements, specifications, bids and
acceptances without formal contracts between November
2, 1914 and September 10, 1917, and a bid and acceptance
as.of April 8, 1915, for the Tonopah.
The Court of Claims held that all shipments, except
those made under the contract of March 15, 1915, were
subject to land-grant deductions. Appellant maintains
that none was subject to the reduced rates. We are of
opinion that all the coal, except that furnished the
Tonopah, was delivered to and became the property of
the United States before it was hauled by appellant, and
was entitled to the reduced rates.
The general rule is that, if a consignee accepts a shipment, he becomes liable as a matter of law for the full
amount of freight charges. Louisville and Nashville
R. R. v. Central Iron Co., 265 U. S. 59, 70; Pittsburgh,
&c. Ry. Co. v. Fink, 250 U. S. 577, 580. Under the landgrant acts, the United States was entitled to the reduced

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.

398

Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

rates if the coal .when hauled was its property. Acts of
May 17, 1856, June 3, 1856, and March 3, 1857, 11 Stat.
15, 17, 200; Acts of April 10, 1869, and March 3, 1871,
16 Stat. 45, 580; Act of March 3, 1875, 1,8 Stat. 509.
Illinois Central R. R. v. United States, 265 U. S. 209.
But the mere use of government forms of bills of lading
is not conclusive on the question of ownership of property
at the time of transportation, and does not give the
United States the right of transportation at land-grant
rates. See Transportation Involved in Furnishing Articles by Contractor,20 Comp. Dec. 721, 723.
The contract of March 15, 1915, was made pursuant to
advertisement and specifications& The specifications,
which were attached to and made a part of the contract,
show that, in order to permit the United States to take
advantage of land-grant rates, the form of proposal contemplated either "delivery of the whole quantity at the
mine, from which shipment will then be made on Government bill of lading to Mobile, \Pascagoula, or Gulfport, as may be necessary, or delivery of about 7,000 tons
at Mobile, Ala., about 5,000 tons at Pascagoula, Miss.,
and about 6,000 tons at Gulfport, Miss." And it was
specified: "The United States will select the method of
delivery which under the proposals received proves to be
most economical and advantageous. If mine delivery is
selected, the coal will be ordered in carload lots for shipment on Government bills of lading to be furnished by
the contracting officer, but the contractor will be required to transfer it from cars to barges belonging to the
United States and will therefore include in his price his
cost for so transferring the coal at all three points of delivery.

.

.

.

If prices based on delivery at Mobile,

Pascagoula, and Gulfport prove to be more advantageous,
then these prices will be accepted and order will be given,
for carload lots or less as may be required on board
United States barges or in bunkers " at the three places

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v U. S.
395

399

Opinion of the Court.

named. The contract contains the following: "In conformity with the advertisement and specifications hereunto attached, which form a part of this contract, the
said contractor shall furnish and have delivered on United
States barges, or in bunkers, from hoists, in carload lots,
at Mobile, Alabama, when requested, eighteen thousand
short tons, more or.less .
..
Coal to be shipped on
Government bill of lading, to be furnished by the contracting officer, the United States to pay railroad freight
charges between Dixiana [where the mines were located]
and Mobile and the contractor to provide for transferring
the coal from cars to United States barges and to pay all
demurraye charges that may accrue." The United States
reserved the option to call on the contractor to tow the
coal from Mobile to Pascagoula and Gulfport and agreed
to make additional payments for that service, and also
reserved the right to inspect and test the coal after transportation and to reject such as did not conform to specifications. The purchase price was to be paid after delivery and final acceptance.
The language "shall furnish and have delivered on
United States barges . . . ", if it stood alone, might
be taken to indicate that delivery was to be made after
transportation. But when read, as it must be, with the
advertisement and specifications, and in the light of what
was done, it appears with reasonable certainty that delivery at the mines was contemplated. The specifications distinctly show that, if mine delivery should be
selected, the coal would be ordered in carload lots and
shipped on government bills of lading. In harmony with
that provision, the contract required shipment in carload lots on forms of bills of lading. furnished by the contracting officer, and bound, the United States Jo pay.
freight charges from the mine to Mobile. This meant
that the contractor was not to be concerned with or responsible for the transportation by rail. But, if delivery

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opiflon of the Court.

267 U. S.

at gulf ports had been selected, the contractor would have
been bound to hire-the carrier and to pay the freight. The
provisions of the contract and specifications together
amount to a declaration of the parties that there was to
be delivery of the *hole quantity at the mine, and the
conduct of the parties was in harmony with that purpose
and inconsistent with an intention that delivery to the
United States should be made after transportation by rail
was ended. The general rule is that title passes from
seller to buyer with the delivery of the goods. All the
coal except that furnished the Tonopah was delivered by
the seller to the United States at the mines on board railroad cars of appellant, a common carrier designated by
the United States by the furnishing of government bills
of lading. It must be held that title passed at the time
of such deliveries. See United States v. Andrews, 207
U. S.229, 240, 243.
The contract contemplated service by the contractor,
as well as the sale of coal. The contractor agreed to have
the coal transferred from cars to government barges, his
compensation therefor to be included in the price, and
agreed for specified prices to tow it to points on the Gulf
coast, if requested so to 'do, and also undertook to furnish
and deliver at various places some 9,000,000 gallons of
fresh water for steam and drinking purposes. The services were not essential to or part of the sale, and, as
against the other facts found, the agreements to transfer
and tow the coal do not indicate that the parties intended
that delivery by the seller to the purchaser should not
be made until after transportation. Hatch v. Oil Co.,
100 U. S. 124, 137; McElwee v. Metropolitan Lumber
Co., 69 Fed. 302, 305; H. Baars & Co.'v. Mitchell, 154
Fed. 322, 326.
The United States reserved the right to inspect and test
the coal after transportation and to reject it, if found
not to conform to specifications. - None of the coal was

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v U.S. 401
395

Opinion of the Court.

rejected. This right was not inconsistent with transfer
of title to the United States at the time of delivery of the
coal on cars at the mine. Delaware, Lackawanna &
Western, R. R. v. United States, 231 U. S. 363, 371, 372;
Illinois Central R. R. v." United States, upra.
By the contract of August 21, 1916, the seller expressly
agreed to deliver the coal on railroad cars at the mines
at Dixiana. Deliveries of the coal furnished without formal contracts were covered by specifications which were
the same as thos6 forming a part of the contract of March
15, 1915.
The conclusion that the coal furnished the Tonopah
was to be delivered at the mine is not sustained by the
facts found. Under the invitation to bid, proposal and
acceptance, delivery was to be made alongside the vessel
at Pensacola. The coal was transported on government
bills of lading. The United States paid the freight less
land-grant deductions. The use of government bills of
lading and the payment of reduced charges by the
United States are not sufficient to sustain a finding that
the coal was the property of the United States when
hauled by appellant. There is nothing to indicate that
title passed before delivery at the vessel.
We agree with the Court of Claims that acceptance of
payment of the land-grant rates concludes appellant. Its
conduct was inconsistent with an intention to claim the
amount of land-grant deduction, as to any of the coal.
Appellant rendered bills as to the coal furnished under
the above mentioned contracts of March 15, 1915 and
August 21, 1916, upon which it stated the basic rate and
the amount to be deducted on account of land grant, and
claimed the net remaining after the deduction. There
was no evidence tending to show that, in presenting its
bills at land-grant rates, appellant did not act with full
knowledge of all the facts. Settlements for transporting
some of the coal were made after the commencement of

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

this suit, April 26, 1916, but before the amended and
supplemental petition was filed, January 9, 1922. Appellant did not protest against any land-grant deductions.
It is bound by its acquiescence and consent and cannot recover the amounts deducted. Oregon-Washington R. R.
Co. v. United States, 255 U. S. 339, 345; New York, New
Haven & Hartford R. R. v. United States, 251 U. S. 123,
127; New York, New Haven & HartfordR. R. v. United
States, 258 U. S. 32; Louisville & Nashville R. R. v.
United States, 258 U. S. 374.
The Court of Claims was right in disallowing additional pay for switching cars to wharves or for transferring coal from cars fo boats. The tariff rates on this
coal for bunkerage and purposes other than export or
coastwise traffic were $1.10 per short ton via Flomaton
to Mobile or Pensacola. Under the tariff the cost of
transferring such coal from cars to vessels at Mobile and
Pensacola, was assumed by appellant, where the road-haul
revenue was $1 per ton or more; but if such revenue was
less there was an additional charge of ten cents per ton,
plus $2 per car for switching, subject to a maximum of
$1 per ton. After land-grant deduction, the balance to
be paid in money was less than a dollar per ton. But the
land grant, made many years ago in aid of the railroad
enterprise, was not a mere gift or gratuity. See Burke v.
Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 234 U. S. 669, 679. The carrier's obligation to haul property of the United States at
reduced rates was a part of the consideration for which
the land grant was made. Part of appellant's compensation for hauling the coal was paid in land, and the balance was paid in money. It cannot be said that the total
was less than a dollar per ton.
Judgment affirmed.

