OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

and when the Commission shall have made such an investigation and have found the existence of undue discrimination, its order may well not be a specific direction against a continuance of service on a particular siding, but an order upon the Company to remove the undue discrimination between interstate shippers, giving
discretion to the Company to adopt a satisfactory
method of meeting the requirement. Compare Houston
& Texas Railway v. United States, 234 U. S. 342, 360;
American Ry. Express v. Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617, 624.
In any event, relief can not be had by this bill, on the
ground of undue discrimination, at the present stage of
the controversy.

Aflrmed.
STEELE v. UNITED STATES No. 1.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORk.

No. 235. Argued March 11, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.
1. Description, in a search warrant, of a building as a garage used
for business purposes, giving its street and one of its two house
numbers, held sufficiently definite, under the circumstances, for
search of the whole building, which had three street entrances,
and means of access between its parts on the ground and upper
floors, and was used in conducting an automobile garage and storage
business. P. 502.
2.. A search warrant sufficiently describes the place to be searched
if it enables the officer, with reasonable effort, to identify it.
P. 503.
3. A warrant authorizing search of a building used as a garage, and
any building or rooms connected or used in connection with the
garage, held to justify search of the upper rooms connected with
the garage by elevator. P. 503.
4.'Search of rooms in a building used by a business held not unlawful under Prohibition Act ยง 25, because one of the rooms, not
searched and in which no liquor was found, was slept and cooked
in by an employee of the business. P. 503.

STEELE v. UNITED STATES NO. 1.
498

Opinion of the Court.

5. Description of articles to be searched for as "cases of whiskey"
held sufficient. P. 504.
6. Where an experienced prohibition agent saw cases labeled "whiskey ", which looked to him like whiskey cases, being unloaded at
a building which, as he ascertained, had no permit to store whiskey,

there was probable cause for warrant and seizure. P. 504.
Affirmed.

APPaL from a judgment of the District Court refusing
to vacate a search warrant, under which, the appellant's
premises were searched and quantities of whiskey, gin and
alcohol were found and seized. See also the next case,
post, p. 505.
Mr. Meyer Kraushaar,for appellant.
Solicitor General Beck, Assistant Attorney General
Wilebrandt, and Mr. MahIon D. Kiefer, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief for the
United States.
MR. CHIEF JUsTIcE TAFT delivered the'opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal, under ยง 238 of the Judicial Code,
direct from the District Court, being a case involving the
application of the Federal Constitution. The judgment
complained of denied a petition of Steele for an order.
vacating a search warrant, by authority of which Steele's
premises were searched and a large amount of whiskey and
other intoxicating liquor was found and seized. He contends that the search warrant violated the Fourth Amendment, because not issued upon probable cause, and not
particularly describing the place to be searched or the
property to be seized; and because the search conducted
under the warrant was unreasonable. The affidavit for
search warrant was as follows:
"Southern District of New York; ss:
"Isidor Einstein,, being duly sworn, deposes and says:
I am a General Prohibition Agent assigned to duty in

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

the State of New York. On December 6, 1922, at about
10 o'clock A. M., accompanied by Agent Moe W. Smith,
I was standing in front of the garage located in the building at 611 West 46th Street, Borough of Manhattan,
City and Southern District of New York. This building
is used for business purposes only. I saw a small truck
driven into the entrance of the garage and I saw the
driver unload from the end of the truck a number of cases
stencilled whiskey. They were the size and appearance
of whiskey cases and I believe that they, contained
whiskey. A search of the records of the Federal Prohibition Director's office fails to disclose any permit for
the manufacture, sale or possession of intoxicating liquors
at the premises above referred to.
"The said premises are within the Southern District
of New York and upon information and belief, have
thereon a quantity of intoxicating-liquor containing more
than one-half of one per cent of alcohol by volume, and
fit for use for beverage purposes, which is used, has been
Wed and is intended for use in violation of the Statute
of the United States, to wit, the National Prohibition
Act.
"This affidavit is made to procure a search warrant, to
search said building at the above address, any building
or rooms _.connected or used in connection with said
garage, the basement or sub-cellar beneath the same, and
to seize all intoxicating liquors found therein.
"Isidor Einstein.
"Sworn to before me this 6th day of December, 1922.
Saml. M. Hitchcock, U. S. Commissioner, Southern District of New York."
The search warrant issued by the Commissioner followed the affidavit in the description of the place and
property to be searched and s6ized and was directed to
Einstein as General Prohibition Agent.
Section 25, Title II, of the National Prohibition Act, c.
85, 41 Stat. 305, 315, provides for the issue of a search

STEELE v. UNITED STATES NO. 1.
498

501

Opinion of the Court.

warrant to seize liquor and its containers intended for
use in violating the Act, and provides that the search
warrant shall be issued as provided in Title XI of the
Espionage Act of June 15, 1917, c. 30, 40 Stat. 217, 228.
Under that Title, in conformity with the Fourth
Amendment, the warrant can be issued only upon probable cause, supported by affidavit, particularly describing
the property and place to be searched. The judge or
commissioner must before issuing the warrant examine
on oath the complainant and any witness he may produce, and require their affidavits or take their depositions
in writing and cause them to be subscribed by the parties
making them. The affidavits or depositions must set
forth the facts tending to establish the grounds of the
application or probable cause for believing that they exist.
If the judge or commissioner is satisfied of the existence
of the grounds for the application, or that there is probable cause to believe their existence, he must issue a
search warrant, signed by him with his name of office, to
a civil officer of the United States duly authorized to enforce or assist in enforcing any law thereof, stating the
particular grounds or probable cause for its issue and the
names of the persons whose affidavits have been taken in
support thereof, and commanding him forthwith to search
the person or place named, for the property specified, and
to bring it before the judge or commissioner. If the
grounds on which the warrant was issued be controverted,
the judge or commissioner must proceed to take testimony
in relation thereto, and the testimony of each witness
must be reduced to writing and subscribed by each witness. If it appears that the property taken is not the
same as that described in the warrant, or that there is no
probable cause for believing the existence of the grounds
on which the warrant was issued, the judge or commissioner must cause the property to be restored to the person from whom it was taken; but if it appears that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

property taken is the same as that described in the warrant, and that there is probable cause for believing the
existence of the grounds on which the warrant was issued,
then the judge or commissioner shall order the same retained in the custody of the person seizing, or to be otherwise disposed of according to law.
The facts developed before the Commissioner on hearing this petition for return of the seized goods were these:
Einstein and Moe Smith were prohibition agents. They
saw a truck depositing cases in a garage on the opposite
side of 46th Street from where they were. Einstein
crossed the street and saw they were cases stenciled as
whiskey. Einstein left his companion to remain in- the
neighborhood until -he could get the warrant, and in
somewhat more than an hour returned with it and made
the seizure. The building searched was a four-story
building in New York City on the south side of West
46th Street, with a sign on it: '" Indian Head Auto Truck
Service-Indian Head Storage Warehouse, No. 609 and
6112' It was all under lease to Steele. It was entered
by three entrances from the street, one on the 609 side,
which is used, and which leads to a staircase running up
to the 'four floors. On the 611 side there is another
staircase of'a similar character,, which is closed, and in
the'middle of the building is an automobile entrance
from the street into a garage, and opposite to the entrance on the south side is an elevator reaching to the
four stories, of sufficient size to take up a Ford machine.
There is no partition between 611 and 609 on the ground
or garage floor, and there were only partial partitions
above, and none which prevented access to the elevator
on any floor from either the 609 or 611 side. The evidence left no doubt that, though the building had two
numbers,. the garage business covering the whole first
floor and the storage business above were of such a character and so related to the elevator that there was no real

STEELE v. UNITED STATES NO. 1.
48

Opinion of the Court.

division in fact or in use of the building into separate
halves. The places searched and in which the liquor was
found were all rooms connected with the garage by the
elevator. One of them was a room on the second floor
with a door open toward the elevator, in which, when
Einstein made his search, three men were bottling and
corking whiskey. There was a room on one of the floors,
flimsily boarded off, in which an employee had a cot and
a cook stove. The prohibition agents seized 150 cases
of whiskey, 92 bags of whiskey, and one 5-gallon can of
alcohol, on the third flobr on the 609 side., On the
second floor, 33 cases of gin were seized on the 609 side
and six 5-gallon jugs of whiskey, 33 cases of gin, 102
quarts of whiskey, and two 50-gallon barrels of whiskey,
and a corking machine, were taken on the 611 side of
the building.
The description of the building as a garage and for
business purposes at 611 W. 46th Street clearly indicated
the whole building as the place intended to be searched.
It isenough if the description is such that the officer with
a search warrant can with reasonable effort ascertain
and identify the place intended. Rothlisbergerv. United
States, 289 Fed. 72; United States v. Borkowski, 268 Fed.
408, 411; Commonwealth v. Dana, 2 Metc. 329, 336;
Metcalf v. Weed, 66 N. H. 176; Rose v. State, 171 Ind.
662; McSherry v. Heimer, 132 Minn. 260.
. Nor did the -search go too far. A warrant was applied for to search any building or rooms connected or
used in connection with the garage, or the basement or
sub-cellar beneath the same. It is quite evident that
the elevator of the garage connected it with every floor
and room in the building and was intended to be used
with it.
The attempt to give the building the character of a
dwelling house by reason of the .fact thatoan employee
slept and cooked in a room -on one of the floors was of

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

course futile. Section 25 of the Prohibition Act forbids
the search of any private dwelling unless it is used for
the unlawful sale of inioxicating liquor, or unless it is
in part used for some business purpose, such as a store,
shop, saloon, restaurant, hotel or boarding house. It
provides that "private dwelling" is to be construed to
include the room or rooms used and occupied not
transiently but solely as a residence in an apartment
house, hotel or boarding house. Certainly the room
occupied in this case was not a private dwelling within
these descriptions, but more than this, it was not
searched and no liquor was found in it. Forndiv. United
States, 3 Fed. (2d) 354.
The search warrant properly described the building
searched as a garage and one for business purposes.
Then it is said that the property seized was not sufficiently identified in the warrant. It was described as
"cases of whiskey," and while there is no evidence specifically identifying the particular cases which were
seized as those which Einstein saw, the description as
"cases of whiskey" is quite specific enough. Elrdd v.
Moss, (C. C. A. 4th) 278 Fed. 123, 129; Sutton v. United
States, 289 Fed. 488 (C. C. A. 5th); Tynan v. United
States, 297 Fed. 177 (C. C. A. 9th); Forni v. United
States, 3 Fed. (2d) 354 (C. C. A. 9th).
Finally it is said there was no probable cause for the
warrant and the seizure. Einstein, a man of experience
in such prosecutions and in such seizures, saw the name
"whiskey" stenciled on cases and said they looked like
whiskey cases. He ascertained by his own investigation
of the official records that there was no permit for the
legal storage of whiskey on these premises. In a recent
case we have had occasion to lay down what is probable
cause for a search. Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S.
132. "If the facts and circumstances before the officer are such as to warrant a man of prudence and caution in

STEELE v. UNITED STATES NO. 2.
498

Syllabus.

believing that the offense has been committed, it is sufficient." What Einstein saw and ascertained was quite
sufficient to warrant a man of prudence and caution and
his experience in believing that the offense had been committed of possessing illegally whiskey and intoxicating
liquor, 'and that it was in the building he described.
The search warrant fully complied with the statutory
and constitutional requirements as set forth above, the
liquor was lawfully seized and the District Court rightly
held that it should not be returned.
The decree is affirmed.
Affirmed.

STEELE v. UNITED STATES No. 2.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 636.

Argued March 11, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.

1. A judgment upholding a search warrant on a petition to vacate
it is res judicata as to the competency of the person to whom
the warrant was directed and as to probable cause for its issuance;
so that the petitioner cannot subsequently raise the question in a
criminal proceeding against "him by objecting to evidence of seizure
under the warrant. P. 507.
2. Section 6 of Title XI of the Espionage Act, adopted in the Prohibition Act (Title II, ยง 25), authorizes a search warrant to be
issued "to a civil officer of the United States duly authorized to
enforce or assist in -1nforcing any law thereof "--Held, that this
is not meant to be confined to officers of the United States in the
limited Constitutional sense, but includes a general prohibition
agent appointed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. P.
507.
3. In a prosecution for illegal possession of intoxicating liquor, in
which-the results of a seizure under a search warrant are offered
against the defendant, the court, in deciding upon the competency
of the evidence, determines whether under the facts and law there
was probable cause for the warrant, and this question is not for
the jury. P. 510.
Affirmed.

