OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

267 U. S.

SAMUELS v. McCURDY, SHERIFF OF DEKALB
COUNTY, ,GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

No. 225.

Argued January 22, 1925.-Decided March ?, 1925.

1. A State law (Georgia Ls. 1917', Ex. Sess.) making it unlawful for
a person to possess intoxicating liquors which, previously to its

enabtment, he had lawfully acquired for consumption as a beverage in his home, and subjecting them to seizure and destruction,
is not an ex post facto law. P. 193.
2. The seizure and destruction, without compensation, of such liquors,
pursuant to the State prohibition laws, does not deprive such possessor, of property without due process of law. P. 194.
3. When a State law denied property rights in intoxicating liquors,
and made their possession unlawful, except for medicinal and other
specified uses under special permit, and provided for seizure under
search warrant, and for destruction by an order of court to be
made without first hearing .the person from whom they were taken;
held, that the denial of such hearing did not render the law invalid under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
as applied to one who did not claim to be rithin the statutory
exceptions and whose contention that the law violated his constitutional property rights in liquors seized under it was heard in
a suit brought by himself to enjoin their destruction and regain
possession. P. 199.
157 Ga. 488, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment-of the Supreme Court of Georgia

which affirmed a judgment dismissing a suit brought by
the plaintiff in error to enjoin the defendant in error, a
sheriff, from destroying intoxicating liquors pursuant to
an order of court, and for specific recovery of the liquors.
Mr. Hooper Alexander for plaintiff in error.It may well be doubted whether the prohibition against
possession, as contained in the Act of 1917, was-ever intended to apply to liquors already in possession.
'<Defendant in error submitted on the printed record.

SAMUELS v. McCURDY.
188

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Is the law ex post facto? When the substance of the
act is considered, the objection is well taken. We recognize the soundness of the doctrine announced in WatersPierceOil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86, and Chicago & Alton
R. R. Co. v. Tranbarger,238 U. S. 67. In the case now
considered the statute, if it applies to these previously acquired liquors, would be violated by plaintiff, not by doing
a prohibited act or by refusing to do what is commanded,
but merely by doing nothing.
It may be said that in Tranbarger'sCase also, the railroad was merely passive. But this is more apparent than
real. The statute of Missouri commanded an affirmative
act, viz., the opening of the drains, and penalized the refusal. The act we complain of does not do this. It penalizes mere passivity. The lawful purchase had resulted
in a condition, to-wit, a physical possession that was lawful when acquired. The statute punishes that. When the
State of Georgia makes it a misdemeanor merely to possess liquor, is this not punishing the citizen for having acquired the possession? See Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S.
382; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386; Cummings v. Missouri,
4 Wall. 277; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch 137.
The provision as to possession deprives plaintiff in error
of ,his property without due process of law. Delaney v.
Plunkett, 146 Ga. 547, distinguishing Barbour v. State,
146 Ga. 667, 249 U. S.454. See Bartemeyer's Case, 18
Wall. 129; Boston Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S.
33; Barbour v. Georgia, 249 U. S.454; Eberle v. Michigan, 232 U. S.700.
In affirming the judgment of the court below, the Supreme Court of Georgia necessarily ruled that"a heriff
may seize and destroy the property of a citizen without
any accusation or pleading, without any hearing from
him, and without a judgment. There is no law in Georgia
conferring such summary power on the sheriff. There
could not be. Section 20 of the Act of Nov. 17, 1915,

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

declares the liquors prohibited in that act to be contraband and provides for their destruction after a hearing
and judgment. Unless they can be destroyed as there
provided, there is no statutory provision for their destruction.
The hearing must be given, not as a matter of grace
but as a matter of right. It is equally axiomatic that the
hearing on a prayer for injunction is not a substitute for
,a hearing in the first instance. An application for- injunction is aimed at an unauthorized destruction before
a hearing had upon legal process instituted by the sheriff.
Had such a process been taken the owner would have been
thereby informed as to the grounds on which his property
was to be condemned; would be entitled to be heard, and
would have found it necessary only to disprove those allegations of wrong on which the seizure was made. It is
no substitute for such a proceeding to hear him come in
and set .up, in the dark, that there was no ground at all,
and negative every possible or conceivable ground. Such
a thing puts upon him the unreasonable burden of disproving every possibility, even those that did not exist,
or which it might never occur to him could be conjectured.
Mr. CHIEF JusTIce TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Sig Samuels, a resident of DeKalb County, Georgia,
filed his petition in the Superior Court of that county
against its sheriff, J. A. McCurdy, in which he prayed for
the specific recovery of certain intoxicating liquors belonging to him which he averred had been seized on search
warrant by the defendant. He asked an injunction to
prevent their destruction. A rule to show cause issued
and a restraining order. A general demurrer to the petition was sustained and the case dismissed. On error to
the Supreme Court of the State, the judgment was affirmed. This is a writ of error to that judgment.

SAMUELS v. McCURDY.
188

191

Opinion of the Court.

The petition averred that Phillips, a deputy of the
defendant, went to Samuels' residence and acting under
a search warrant seized and carried away a, large quantity of whiskeys, wines, beer, cordials and liquors; that he
stored these in the jail of the county; that it was the purpose of the defendant to destroy them, without any hearing of the petitioner; that the value of the liquors, at the
scale of prices current before the prohibition laws, was
approximately $400, but at the prices paid thereafter, if
illegally sold, would be very much more; that the greater
part of the liquors was bought by the petitioner and kept
at his home prior to the year 1907; that the balance
thereof was legally purchased by him in the State of
Florida and legally shipped to him in interstate commerce
prior to the year 1915; that, although a citizen of the
United Stfes and the State of Georgia, the petitioner was
born in Europe where the use of such liquors had been
common; that he had been accustomed to their use all his
life; that he purchased them lawfully for the use of his
family and friends at his own home, and not for any unlawful purpose.
The session laws of Georgia for 1907, page 81, now embodied in Section 426 of the Georgia Penal Code, declare
that:
"It shall not be lawful for-any person within the limits
of this State to sell or barter for valuable consideration,
either directly or indirectly, or give away to induce trade
at any place of business, or keep or furnish at any other
places, or manufacture, or keep on hand at their place of
business any alcoholic, spirituous, malt, or intoxicating
liquors, or intoxicating bitters, or other drinks which, if
drunk to excess, will produce intoxication; and any person so offending shall be guilty of a misdemeanor."
By Act of November 17, 1915, Section 2.it is provided:
"It shall be unlawful for any person . . . tomanufacture, sell, offer for sale,

.

.

keep onhand at aplace

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

of business or at or in any social, fraternal or locker club,
or otherwise dispose of any of the prohibited liquors and
beverages described in Section 1 of this Act, or any of
them, in any quantity; but this inhibition does not include, and nothing in this Act shall affect, the social serving 6f such liquors and beverages in private residences in
ordinary social intercourse..
Section 20 of same Act reads as follows:
"Sec. 20. Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That no property rights of any kind shall exist in
said prohibited liquors and beverages, or in the vessels
kept or used for the purpose of violating any provision
of this Act or any .law for the promotion of temperance
or for the suppression of the evils of intemperance; nor
in any such liquors when received, possessed or stored at
any forbidden place or anywhere in a quantity forbidden
by law, or when kept, stored or deposited in any place in
this State for the purpose of sale or unlawful disposition
or unlawful furnishing or distribution; and in all such
cases the liquors and beverages, and the vessels and receptacles in which such liquors are contained, and the property herein named, kept or used for the purpose of violating the law as aforesaid, are hereby declared to be
contraband and are to be forfeited to the State when
seized, and may be ordered and condemned_o be destroyed after seizure by order of the court that has
acquired jurisdiction over the same, or by order of the
judge or court after conviction when such liquors. and
such property named have been seized for use as evidence."
By Act of March 28, 1917, it is declared that:
"It shall'be unlawful for any corporation, firm, person,
or individual to receive from any common carrier, corporation, firm, person or individual or to have, control, or
possess, in this State, any of said enumerated liquors or
beverages whether intended for personal use or otherwise,
save as is hereinafter excepted."

SAMUELS v. McCURDY.
188

Opinion of the Court.

The provision of 1915 which permitted the social serving of liquors and beverages in private residences and in
ordinary social intercourse was expressly repealed by the
Act of 1917. Under other provisions liquor and wine may
be held for medicinal, mechanical and sacramental purposes on special permits. There are not claimed to be
any circumstances in this case excepting the liquors here
seized from the condemnation of the Act of 1917.
Three grounds are urged for reversal. First, the 1917
law under which liquor lawfully acquired can be seized
and destroyed is an ex post facto law. Second, the law in
punishing the owner for possessing'liquor he had lawfully
acquired before its enactment, deprives him of his property without due process. Third, it violates the due
process requirement by the seizure and destruction of the
liquor without giving the possessor his day in court.
First. This law is not an ex post facto law. It does not
provide a punishment for a past offense. It does not fix
a penalty for the owner for having become possessed of
the liquor. The penalty it imposes is for continuing to
possess the liquor after the enactment .of the law. It is
quite the same question as that presented in Chicago &
Alton R. R. Co. v. Tranbarger, 238 U. S. 67. There a
Missouri statute required railroads to construct wateroutlets across their rights of way. The railroad company
had constructed a solid embankment twelve years before
the passage of the Act. The railroad was penalized for
non-compliance with the statute. This Court said:
" The argument that in respect of its penalty feature
the statute is invalid as an ex post facto law is sufficiently
answered by pointing out that plaintiff in error is subjected to a penalty not because of the manner in which it
originally constructed its railroad embankment, nor for

anything else done or omitted before the passage of the
act in 1907, but because after that time it maintained the
embankment in a manner prohibited by that act."

OCTOBER TERM, 1924
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Second. Does the seizure of this liquor and its destruction deprive the plaintiff in error of his property without
due'process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment?
In Crane v. Campbell, 245 U. S. 304, Crane was arrested
for having in his possession a bottle of whiskey for his own
use, and not for the purpose of giving away or selling the
same to any person. This was undei a provision of the
statute of Idaho that it should be unlawful for any person
to-import, ship, sell, transport, deliver, receive or have
in his possession any intoxicating liquors. It was held
that the law was within the police power of the State.
The Court said:
"It must now be regarded as settled that, on account
of their well-known noxious qualities and the extraordinary eils shown by experience commonly to be consequent upon. their use, a State has power absolutely to
prohibit manufacture, gift, purchase, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors,, within its borders without
violating the guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment."
Citihg Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18_Wall. 129; Beer Company
v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S.25, 33; Mugler v. Kansas, 123
U. S.623, 662; Crowley v. Christensen,137, U. S.86, 91;
Purity Extract Co.,v. Lynch, 226 U. 5. 192, 201; Clark
Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S.
311, 330, 331.
The Court pointed out that as the'State had the power
to prohibit, it might adopt such measures as were reasonably appropiate or needful to render exercise - of that
power effective; and that considering the notorious difficulties always attendant upon efforts to suppress traffic
in liquors, the Court was unable to say that the challenged
inhibition oft their possession was arbitrary and unreasonable or without proper relation to the legitimate legislative purpose, that the right to hold intoxicating liquor
for personal use-was not one of those fundamental privi-

SAMUEIM v. McCURDY.
188

Opinion of the Court.

leges of a citizen of the United States which no State
could abridge, and that a contrary view would be incompatible with the undoubted power to prevent manufacture, gift, sale, purchase or transportation of such articles-the only feasible ways of getting them. It did not
appear in that case when the liquor seized had been acquired, but presumably after the prohibitory act.
In Barbour v. Georgia, 249 U. S. 454, it was held that
the Georgia prohibitory law, approved November 18,
1915, but which did not become effective until May 1,
1916, was not invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment
when applied to the possession of liquor by one who had
acquirnd it -after the approval of the law and before it
becamb effective.
These cases it is said do not apply, because the liquor
here was lawfully acquired by Samuels before the Act of
1917 making it unlawful for one to be possessed of liquor
in his residence for use of his family and his guests.
In Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, it appeared that
the breweries, the use of which as such was enjoined as a
--nuisance, and the beer, the sale of which .wasalso enjoined,
were owned by Mugler before the Prohibition Act, mgkkng
both unlawful. In answering the argument that, evin if
the State might prohibit the use and sale, compensation
should be made for them before putting it into effect, to
accord with the Fourteenth Amendment, Mr. Justice
Harlan, speaking for the Court, said:
"As already stated, the present case must be governed
by principles that do not involve the power of eminent
domain, in the exercise of which property may not be
taken for public use without compensation. A prohibition simply upon the use of property for purposes that
are declared, by valid legislation, to be injurious to the
health, morals, or safety of the community, cannot, in
any just sense, be deemed a taking or an appropriation of
property for the public benefit. Such legislation does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

disturb the owner in the control or use of his property for
lawful purposes, nor restrict his right to dispose of it, but
is only a declaration by the State that its use by any one,
for certain forbidden purposes, is prejudicial to the public
interests. Nor can legislation of that character come
within the Fourteenth Amendment, in any case, unless it
is apparent that itg real object is not to protect the community, or to promote the general well-being, but, under
the guise of police regulation, to deprive the owner of his,
liberty and property, without due process of law. The
power which the States have of prohibiting such use by
individuals of their property as will be prejudicial to the
health, the morals, or the safety of the public, is not-and,
consistently with the existence and safety of organized
society, can not be-burdened with the condition that the
State must compensate such individual owners for pecuniary losses they may sustain, by reason of their not
being permitted, by a noxious use of their property, to inflict injury upon the community. The exercise of the
police power by the destruction of property which is itself a public nuisance, or the prohibition of its use in a_.
particular way,. whereby its value becomes depreciated,
is very different from taking property for public use, or
from depriving a person of his property without due process of law. In the one case, a nuisance only is abated;
in the other, unoffending property is taken away from an
innocent owner.
"It is true, that, when the defendants in these cases
purchased or erected their breweries, the laws of the State
did not forbid the manufacture of intoxicating liquors.
But the State did not thereby give any assurance, or come
under an obligation, that its legislation upon that subject
would remain unchanged. Indeed, as was said in Stone
v. Mississippi,above cited, the supervision of the public
health and the public morals is a governmental power,
'continuing in its nature,' and 'to be dealt with as the

SAMUELS v. McCURDY.
188

197

Opinion of the Court.

special exigencies of the moment may require'; and that,
'for this purpose, the largest legislative discretion is allowed, and the discretion can not be parted with any more
than the power itself.'"
In view of this language and the agreed statement of
facts, the decision necessarily was that the sale of beer
made and owned before the prohibition law could be punished by that law as a nuisance and that no compensation
was necessary, if the legislature deemed this to be necessary for the health and morals of the community.
It is true that a remark in the opinion in Eberle v.
Michigan, 232 U. S. 700, 706, refers tb the question as
still an open one, and the same reference is made in Barbour v. Georgia, 249 U. S. 454, 459. In Hiamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries Company, 251 U. S. 146, 157, there is a
similar reference, though with a suggestive citation to
Mugler v. Kansas. And in Jacob Ruppert v. Caffey, 251
U. S. 264, after calling attention to this reservation, this
Court said:
"It should, however, be noted that, among the judgments affirmed in the Mugler Case, was one for violation
of the act by selling beer acquired before its enactment
(see pp. 625, 627); and that it was assumed without discussion that the same rule applied to the brewery and its
product'(see p. 669)."
But it was not found necessary to consider the question
in the Jacob Ruppert Case, because there was no appropriation of property but merely a lessening of value due
to permissible restriction imposed upon its use.The ultimate legislative object of prohibition, is to prevent the drinking of intoxicating liquor by any one because of the demoralizing effect of drunkenness upon- society. The state has the power to subject those members.
of society who might indulge in the use of such liquor
'without injury to themselves to a deprivation of access'
to liquor in order to remove temptation from those whom

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1924
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

its use would demoralize and to avoid the abuses which
follow in its train. Accordingly laws have been enacted by

the States, and sustained by this Court, by which it has
beeh made illegal to manufacture liquor for one's own use
or for another's, to transport it or to sell it or to give it
away to others. The legislature has this power whether it
affects liquor lawfully acquired before the prohibition or
not. Without compensation it may thus seek to reduce
the drinking of liquor. It is obvious that if men are permitted to maintain liquor in their possession, though only
for their own consumption, there is danger of its becoming accessible to others. Legislation making possession
unlawful is therefore within the police power of the States
as a reasonable mode of reducing the evils of drunkenness,
as we have seen in the Crane and Barbour cases. The
only question which arises is whether for the shrunken
opportunity-of the possessor of liquor who acquired it before the law, to use it only for his own consumption, the
State. must make compensation. By valid laws, his property rights have been so far reduced that it would be difficult to measure their value. That which had the qualities of property has, by successive provisions of law in
the interest of all, been losing its qualities as property.
For many years, every one whohas. made or stored liquor
has known that it was a kind of property which because
of its possible vicious uses might be denied'by the State
the character and attributes as such; that legislation calculated to suppress its use in the interest of public health
and morality was lawful and possible, and this without
compensation. Why should compensation be made now
for the mere remnant of the original right if nothing was
paid for the loss of the right to sell the liquor, give it
away or transport it? The necessity for its destruction is
claimed under the same police power to, be for the public
betterment as that which authorized its previous restrictions. It seems to us that this conclusion finds support

SAMUELS v. McCURDY.
188

Opinion of the Court.

in the passage quoted above from the opinion in the
Mugler Case and its application to the agreed facts, and
in Gardner v. Michigan, 199 U. S. 325, and Reduction
Company v. Sanitary Works, 199 U. S. 306. See also
American Storage Company v. Chicago, 211 U. S.306, and
Adams v. Milwaukee, 228 U. S. 572, 584; Lawton v..
Steele, 152 U. S.'133, 136; United States v. Pacific Railroad, 120 U. S. 227, 239. In Gardner v. Michigan a
municipal ordinance was held valid which required the
owner to deliver to the agent of the city all garbage with
vegetable and animal refuse, although it was shown that
it was property of value because it could be advantageously used for the manufacture of commercial fat. It was
decided that the police power justified the legislature or
its subordinate, the city council, in the interest of the
public in removing and destroying the garbage, as a health
measure, without compensation.
Finally, it is said that the petitioner here has no day
in court provided by the law, and therefore that in this
respect the liquors have been taken from him without due.
process. The Supreme Court of Georgia has held in Delaney V. Plunkett, 146 Ga. 547, 565, that'under the 20th
Section of the Act of November 17, 1915 (Georgia Laws,
Extra. Session 1915, p. 77,) quoted above, which declares
that no property rights of any kind shall exist in prohibited liquors and beverages, no hearing need be gij
the possessor Of unlawfully held liquors, but that they
may be destroyed by order of the court. In the Plunkett
Case the seizure was of liquor held in excess of an amount
permitted by the law of 1915. By the amendment of
1917, as already pointed out, possession.even for home use
is now forbidden. As in the Plunkett Case, the petitioner
does not deny that the liquor seized was within the condetonation of the law and that he has no defense to his
possession of it except as he asserts a property right protected by the Fourteenth Amendment which we have

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
BumFLR, J.,

dissenting.

267 U. S.

found he does not have. As a search warrant issued,.the
seizure was presumably valid. The law provides for an
order of destruction by a Court, but it does not provide for
notice to the previous possessor of the liquor and a hearing
before the order is made. Under the circumstances, prima
facie, the liquor existed contrary to law and it was for the
possessor to prove the very narrow exceptions under
which he could retain it as lawful If he desired to try
the validity of the seizure, or the existence of the exception by which his possession could be made to appear
legal, he could resort to suit to obtain possession and to
enjoin the destruction under the Georgia law, as he has
done in this case. This under the circumstances, it seems
to us, constitites sufficient process of law under the Federal Constitution as respects one in his situation. Lawton
v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 142. What might be necessary,
if he were claiming to hold the liquor lawfully for medicinal or some other specially excepted purpose, we need
not consider.
The averment in the petition was that the sheriff intended to destroy the liquor. There is no averment in the
petition that lie did not intend to do this by order of
Court upon his application. We must take it for granted
on the demurrer, therefore, as against the pleader that the
sheriff did not intend to depart from Section 20 of the
Act of 1915, and that the question made here is on the
validity of that section.
Judgment affirmed.
MiR. JusTIcE BUTiER,

dissenting.

I cannot agree with the opinion of the Court in this
case. Plaintiff in error is a man of temperate habits, long
accustomed to use alcoholic liquor as a beverage. He
never sold or in any way illegally dealt with intoxicating
liquors and has never been accused of so doing. His supply was lawfully acquired year's before the passage of the

SAMUELS v. McCURDY.
188

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

enactment in question (the Act of March 8, 1917) for the
use of himself, his family and friends in his own home,
and not for any unlawful purpose. It consisted of spirituous, vinous and malt liquors and, before the passage of
the act, was worth about $400. September 21, 1922, a
deputy sheriff or constable, in company with a number of
other persons, went to the house of plaintiff in error and
searched it and seized and carried away his stock of liquor
and delivered it to the sheriff. It was'his purpose summarily to destroy it. This suit was brought to restrain
him.
Plaintiff in error insists that the seizure deprived him
of his property in violation of the due process clause 6f
the Fourteenth Amendment. The decisions of this court
in Crane v. Campbell, 245 U. S. 304, and Barbour v.
Georgia, 249 U. S. 454, are not controlling. In the Crane
Case, the Idaho statute under consideration (c. 11, Session
Laws 1915) made it unlawful. to have in possession or to
transport any intoxicating liquor within a prohibition district in that State. Crane was accused of having in his
possession a bottle of whiskey for his own use and benefit,
and not for the purpose of giving away or selling the same.
The state Supreme Court said: " The only means provided by the act for procuring intoxicating liquors in a
prohibition district for any purpose relates to wine to be
used for sacramental purposes and pure alcohol to be used
for scientific or mechanical purposes, or for compounding
or preparing medicine, so that the possession of whiskey,
or of any intoxicating liquor, other than wine and pure
alcohol for the uses above-mentioned is prohibited." 27
Idaho 671, 679. The point was not made that the liquor
was lawfully acquired or that it had never been unlawfully
sold, transported or held. Presumably, the whiskey was
acquired after the act took effect, and it could not be
claimed that it had not been sold or transported in violation of law. In the Barbour Case, the prosecution was

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
BUTE, J., dissenting.

267 U. S.

under Georgia legislation approved November 18, 1915,
which did not take effect until May 1, 1916. Barbour
was convicted of having more than a gallon of vinous
liquor in his possession on June 10, 1916. This Court,
following the Supreme Court of Georgia, assumed that the
liquor was acquired after the act was passed and before
it took effect, and held that Barbour took the liquor with
notice that after a day certain its possession, by mere
Iapse of time, would become a crime. The act of 1907,
now section 426 of the Georgia Penal Code, was in force
and made it unlawful for any person to sell or barter intoxioating liquors. It did not appear and was not claimed
that the liquor had.been lawfully acquired by the accused
or that it had not been sold, transported or held in violation of law. The precise question here raised was not
decided in either of these cases. Each presented facts
materially different from those in the present case.
The seizure and destruction cannot be sustained on the
ground that the act in question destroyed the value of the
liquor. The question of compensation is not involved.
That alcoholic liquors are capable of valuable uses is
recognized by the whole mass of state and national regulatory and prohibitory lhws, as well as by the state legislation *in question. The liquors seized were valuable for
such private use as was intended by plaintiff in error.
'The insistence is that the State is without power to seize
and destroy a private supply of intoxicating liquor lawfully acquired before the prohibitory legislation and kept
in one's house for his own use. Such seizure and destruction can be supported only on the ground that the private
possession and use would injure the public. See Mugler
v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 663; Gardnerv. Michigan, 199
U. S. 325, 333.
The efiactment does not directly forbid the drinking of
intoxicating liquors. The State Supreme Court has not
construed it to prevent such private use of intoxicants.

PENNA. FEDERATION v. P. R. R. Co.
188

203

Syllabus.

It is aimed at the liquor traffic. See De Laney v. Plunkett,
146 Ga. 547; Barbour v. State, 146 Ga. 667; Bunger v.
State, 146 Ga, 672, cited by that court as authority for its
decision in this case. Attention has not been called to
any legislation which attempts directly to forbid the mere
drinking or other private use of such liquors. As against
the objection that it would infringe constitutional pro-visions safeguarding liberty and property, the power of
the State to enact and enforce such legislation has not
been established. That question isnot involved in this
case.
Any suggestion that the destruction of such private
supply lawfully acquired and held for the use of the owner
in his own home is necessary for or has any relation to the
suppression of sales or to the regulation of the liquor
traffic or to the protection of the public from injury would
be fanciful and without foundation. The facts in the
case do not permit the application of the doctrine applied
in Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 204.
To me it seems very plain that, as applied, the law is
oppressive and arbitrary, and that. the seizure deprived
plaintiff in error of his property in violation of the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. I would
reverse the judgment of the state court.
PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD SYSTEM AND ALLIED LINES FEDERATION NO. 90, ET AL. v.
PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM. THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

i

No. 661. Argued January 13, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. Since, as decided in Pennsylvania Railroad Co. v. Labor Board,
261 U. S. 72, the provisions of Title III of the Transportation Act,
1920, seeking to, promote adjustment of disputes between carriers
and their employees through conferences and through decisions of

