432

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

for intrastate points between Houston and Cisco, both in
Texas. The conflict between the Revised Statutes of
Texas and the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission can only be settled by recognition of the supremacy
of the federal authority. It is llain from the agreed statements of facts that the only recovery which could be had
under the Western Classification in this case was less
than $60. The limitation of liability Was in accordance
with the second Cummins Amendment, was properly
agreed to, and was binding upon the shipper as well as the
carrier.
The judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals must be
reveised and the cause remanded for further*proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
BROOKS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR.
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH DAKOTA.

No. 286. Argued January 30, 1925.-Decided March 9, 1925.
1. The Act puhishing the transportation of stolen motor vehicles in
interstate or foreign commerce is within the power of Congress.
P. 436.
2. The third section of this act .punishes anyone who transports or
causes to be transported, in interstate or foreign commerce, a
motor vehicle, knowing it to have been stolen, and the fourth
section punishes the acts of receiving, storing, concealing, disposing
of,. etc., "any motor vehicle, moving as, or which is a part of, or
which constitutes interstate or foreign commerce, knowing the
same to have been stolen." Held, that § 4 is constitutional, since
its purpose is merely to make more effective the regulation of § 3
and it applies onlywhere the-act of storing, concealing, etc., is a
final step in the 6se of interstate (or foreign) transportation to
promote the scheme of unlawfully disposing of the.stolen vehicle
and of withholding it from its owner. P. 439.
3. When the constitutional question upon which a writ of error from
this court to thd District Court was'founded is decided against

BROOKS v. UNITED STATES.
432

433

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the plaintiff in error, non-federal questions arising in the record
must also be decided. P. 439.
4. In an indictment charging that defendant, knowingly, unlawfully
and feloniously transported and caused to be transported in interstate commerce, between places designated, a touring automobile,
(stating its value) the property of A, which said automobile
theretofore (stating a time) had been stolen from A, and that the
defendant did not have A's consent to transport it between the
places named, "all of which he," the defendant, "then and there
well knew," the concluding allegation of scienter is to be applied
to the whole -narrative preceding; so that the charge that
defendant knew, when he transported it, that the automobile was
stolen, is sufficiently definite. P. 439.
5. Where a defendant is convicted, by a general verdict, upon several
counts of an indictment, and is given the same term of imprisonment under each count, to run concurrently, error in the court's
charge, applicable to only one of the counts, is not ground for
reversing sentence on the others. P. 440.
Affirmed.

ERROR to judgment and sentence imposed by the District Court for violation of the "National Motor Vehicle
Theft Act."
Mr. Joe Kirby for plaintiff in error.
The indictments fail to inform the accused of the
nature and cause of the accusation, under Article 6, and
seek to deprive him of his liberty without due process of
law contrary to Article "5,
of the Bill of Rights.
The first counts charge Brooks with knowingly transporting the vehicle and not with transporting a vehicle
known by him to have been stolen. Probably nothing is
more elementary in criminal law than that the charge
in the indictment must be positive, direct, certain and
specific, must cover every act necessary to constitute the
crime sought to be charged and that nothing can be
added by inference or intendment and meet the constitutional requirements. In other words, there must be an
accusation, not a dragnet. 1 Chitty C. L. Page 171;
1 Bish. N. C. P. §§ 508-520; 1 Wharton C. P. (Kerr)

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1924
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

267 U. S.

§ 194. The same criticism applies to- the second count.
This guilty knowledge must have been in the mind of
"the defendant under the first count at the time he transported the car and under the second count at the time
he stored or concealed it. It should have been, but has
not been, alleged in the indictment. Peterson v. United
States, 213 Fed. 920; Fredericks v. Tracy, 33 Pac. (Calif.)
750; Sir Nicholas Pointz, Cro. Jac. 214; United States v.
De Barre, 6 Biss. 358; 2 Bishop N. C. L. § 1140; Foster
v. State, 106 Ind. 272.
The National Motor Vehicle Theft Act is not authorized under the commerce clause of the Constitution and
is in conflict with Art. 10 of the Constitution. Dobbins v. Comm'rs., 16 Pet. 435 Bufflington v. Day, 11
Wall. 113. The Act in question does not regulate interstate commerce. Bailey v. Drexel Furniture Co., 259
U. S. 20; Hammer v. Dagenhart,.247T. S. 251. Wh.en
this Court upheld the constitutionality of the White
Slave Law, Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308; the
Pure Food and Drug Act, Hipolite Egg Co. v. United
States, 220 U. S. 45; and the Anti-Lottery Act, Champion
v. Ames, 188 U. S. 321, it went to the very extreme limit.
Even if Congress possessed the power to enact § 3 of
the act in question, still there must be some point in the
procedure where this interstate control will cease, where
the State can again assume jurisdiction over the vehicle.
In interstate commerce this has been, we believe, always
determined by the article reaching its primary destination. In the present case, the destination in the movement of the cars was the defendant's garage in Sioux
Falls. Whatever was done with the cars after they
reached their destination in interstate movement" would
be clearly beyond the federal jurisdiction and a question
solely for the state courts. In fact we think a careful
reading of § 4 will disclose that such was the purpose of
Congress. By the act of June 3,1902, 32 Stat. 285, Congress sought to assume jurisdiction over migratory and

BROOKS v. UNITED STATES.
432

Opinion of the Court.

insectivorous birds. In United States v. McCullagh, 221
Fed., 288, the District Court held the act unconstitutional, pointing out that the power to pass such an enactment was not conferred either by the general welfare
clause or by the interstate commerce clause. The same
view was strongly expressed in State v. Sawyer, 113
Me. 458.
The court below also erred in excluding the wife of the
defendant, when called as .a witness for the "purpose -of
contradicting and impeaching the testimony of the government witnesses, whose statements were given in her
presence. Johnson v. United States, 293 Fed. 383; Jin
Fuey Moy v. United States, 254 U. S. 189; Rosen v.
United States, 245 U. S. 467; United States v. Reid, 12
How. 361; Logan v. United States, 144 U., S. 263; Benson
v. United States, 146 U. S. 325; Adams v. United States,
259 Fed. 214; Wigmore on Evidence § 601.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Harry S. Ridgely
were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTiCE. TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error to, the District Court for the
District of South Dakota brought by Rae Brooks to
reverse a judgment against him of conviction under two
indictments for violation of the Act of Congress, of October, 1919, known as the National Motor Vehicle
Theft Act. The writ of error issued under § 238 of the
Judicial Code, because the case involves the construction
or application of the Constitution, in that the chief assignment of error is the invalidity of the Act. The Act
became effective October 29, 1919 (41 Stat. 324), and is
as follows:
"Chap. 89.-An Act to punish the transportation of
stolen motor vehicles in interstate or foreign commerce.

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

,
267 U. S.

"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That this Act may be cited as the National
Motor Vehicle Theft Act.
"Sec. 2. That when used in this Act:
"(a) The term 'motor vehicle' shall include an automobile, automobile truck, automobile wagon, motorcycle,
or any other self-propelled vehicle not designed for running on rails;
"(b) The term 'interstate or foreign commerce', as
used in this Act shall include transportation from one
State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, to another
State, Territory, or- the District of Columbia, or to a
foreign country, or from a foreign country to any State,
Territory, or the District of Columbia.
"Sec. 3. That whoever shall transport or cause to be
transported in interstate or foreign commerce a motor
vehicle, knowing the same to have been stolen, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $5,000, or by imprisonment of not more than five years, or both.
"See. 4. That whoever shall receive, conceal, store,
barter, sell, or dispose of any motor vehicle, moving as,
or which is a part of, or which constitutes interstate or
foreign commerce, knowing the same to have'been stolen,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $5,000, or by
*imprisonment of not more than five years, or both.
"See. 5. That any person violating this Act may be
punished in any ,district in or through which such motor
vehicle has been transported or removed by such offender."
The objection to the Act can not be sustained. Congress can certainly regulate interstate commerce to the
extent of forbidding and punishing the use of such commerce as an agency to promote immorality, dishonesty
or the spread of any evil or harm to the people of other
States from the State of origin. In doing this it is merely
exercising the police power, for the benefit of the public,

BROOKS v. UNITED STATES.
432

Opinion of the Court.

within the field of interstate commerce. Gloucester Ferry
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 215. In Reid v. Colorada, 187 U. S. 137, it was held that Congress could pass
a law excluding diseased stock from interstate commerce
in order to prevent its use in such a way.as thereby to
injure the stock of other States. In the Lottery Case,
188 U. S. 321, it was held that Congress might pass a law
punishing the transmission of lottery tickets from one
State to another, in order to prevent the carriage of those
tickets to be sold in other States and thus demoralize, through a spread of the gambling habit,
individuals who were likely to purchase. In Hipopolite Egg Co. v. United States, 220 U. S. 45, it was
held that it was within the regulat6ry power of Congress
to punish the transportation in interstate commerce of
adulterated articles which, if sold in other States than
the one from which they were transported, would deceive or injure persons who purchased such articles. In
Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308 and Caminetti v.
United States, 242 U. S., 470, the so-called White Slave
Traffic Act, which was construed to punish any person
engaged in enticing a woman from one State to another
for immoral ends, whether for commercial purposes or
otherwise, was valid because it was intended to prevent
the use of interstate commerce to facilitate prostitution
or concubinage, and other forms of immorality. In Clark
Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Railway Co., 242
. S. 311, it was held that Congress had power to forbid
the introduction of intoxicating liquors into any State
in which their use was prohibited, in order to prevent
the use of interstate commerce to promote that Which
was illegal in the State. In Weber v. Freed, 239 U. S.
325, it was held that Congress had power to prohibit the
importation of pictorial representations of prize fights
designed for public exhibition, because of the demoralizing effect of such exhibitions in the State of destination.

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.,
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

In Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251, it was held
that a federal law forbidding the transportation of
articles manufactured by child labor in one State to another was invalid, because it was really not a regulation
of interstate commerce but a congressional attempt to
regulate labor in the State of origin, by an embargo on
its external trade. Articles made by child labor and
transported into other States were harmless, and could
be properly transported without injurying any person
who either bought or used them. In referring to the
cases already cited, upon which the argument for the
validity of the Child Labor Act was based, this Court
pointed out that, in each of them, the use of interstate
commerce had contributed to the accomplishment of
harmful results to people of other States, and that the
congressional power over interstate transportation in
such cases could only be effectively exercised "by prohibiting it. The clear distinction between authorities
first cited and the Child Labor Case leaves no doubt
where the right lies in this case. It is known of all men
that the radical change in -transportation of persons and
goods effected by the introduction of the automobile,
the.speed with which it moves, and the ease with which
evil-minded persons can avoid capture, have greatly encouraged and increased crimes. One of the crimes which
have been encouraged is the theft of the automobiles
themselves and their immediate transportation to places
remote from homes of 'the owners. Elaborately organized conspiracies for the theft of automobiles and the
spiriting them away into some other State, and their
sale or other disposition far away -from the owner and
his neighborhood, have roused Congress to devise some
method for defeating the success of 'these widely spread
schemes of larceny. The quick passage of the machines
into another State helps to conceal the trail of the thieves,
gets the stolen property into another police jurisdiction

BROOKS v. UNITED STATES.
432

Opinion of the Court.

and facilitates the finding of a safer place in which to
dispose of the booty at a good price. This is a gross
misuse of interstate commerce. Congress may properly
punish such interstate transportation by any one with
knowledge of the theft, because of its harmful result and
its defeat of the property rights of those whose machines against their will are taken into other jurisdictions.
The fourth section merely makes more effective the
regulation contained in the third section. The third
section punishes the transportation of a stolen automobile with knowledge of the theft. The fourth section
punishes the receipt, the concealment, the storing, the
bartering, the sale, or the disposition of such stolen
vehicle, moving as interstate commerce, or as a part
thereof, with knowledge of its having been stolen. Of
course, this section can and does apply only to the storing or concealment of a stolen automobile with knowledge of its theft, as a final step in the use of interstate
transportation to promote the scheme of its unlawful
disposition and the withholding of it from its owner.
For'these reasons, we think that §§ 3 and 4 are within the
power of Congress.
The constitutional question brought this case directly
to this Court. Being here, the other questions arising
on the record must be decided. Pierce v. United States,
252 U. S.239; Brolan v. United States, 236 U. S.216.
It is objected that the counts of the indictments
failed
to inform the defendant of the nature and cause of the
accusation. There were two indictments with two
counts each. One charged violation of § 3 in the first
count and of § 4 in the second count, as to one automobile. The second indictment made the same charges
as to a second automobile. The charge ip one, under
§ 3, was that defendant "knowingly, unlawfully and
feloniously did transport and cause to be transported in

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U.S.

interstate commerce ' from Sioux. City, Iowa,. to Sioux
Falls, South Dakota, a touring automobile, describing it
as of $1,000 value, the property of and belonging to one
W. C. Wendt of Omaha, Nebraska, which said automobile theretofore, on 'September 7th, A. D. 1921, had been
stolen from Wendt, and that the defendant did not have
theconsent of the owner to transport it from Sioux City
to Sioux Falls, "all of which he, the said Rae Brooks,
then and there well knew." The argument is, that this
does not sufficiently charge that the defendant knew
that the automobile was stolen when he transported it.
We think it does; that it is a reasonable construction
to hold that the last words refer to the whole previous
narration.
The third objection is that there is no evidence of the
defendant's guilt, and that the jury should have been
so advised. We have read the evidence and read the
charge of the court. The charge of the court submitted
the issues properly to the jury except possibly in one
respect, to which we shall refer.
It appeared that Brooks, the defendant, owned a garage
in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, and that he went to Sioux
City, Iowa, and obtained these two automobiles, which
had been stolen, and transferred them to Sioux Falls.
We can not say that the circumstances were not such that
a jury might properly infer that the defendant knew that
they were stolen and had acquired them and transported
them to South Dakota for the purpose of profiting by
the transaction in' stolen goods. It is said that there was
no evidence after the cars were stored in Sioux Falls
that the defendant made any.effort to secrete, conceal or
store them.with guilty knowledge. It is not necessary
for us to examine into this question or another mooted
by the defendant's counsel. He contends that under the
charge of the court the jury might have been led to convict the defendant on the second count in each indict-

BROOKS "v. UNITED STATES.
432

Opinion of the Court.

ment, on the theory that he became aware of the stolen
character of the cars only after he reached Sioux Falls,
and stored them after he became aware of their stolen
character in Sioux Falls. This, he says, was an erroneous
application of the 4th section, because, if his connection
with the transportation was innocent, his subsequent
criminal concealment of the stolen property would be disconnected with interstate commerce and be only a crime
against the State. We.'do not think it necessary to pass
on this question, for the reason that the verdict of the
jury was general, that the defendant was found guilty on
both the counts of each of the two indictments and thai
the defendant was sentenced to eighteen months on each
indictment and each count, the sentences to run cpncurrently. As the convictions can be sustained on the first
count in each indictment under the verdict, there is no
ground for reversing the case because of error in charging
as to the second count. "Claassenv. United States, 142
U. S. 140, 146; Evans v. United States, 153 U. S. 608,
609; Abrams v. United States, 250 U. S.616, 619; Pierce
v. United States, 252 U. S. 239,,,252.
There are some objections niade to the form of some
questions put by the District Attorney: We do not think
they are shown to have been sufficiently prejudicial to
justify a new trial.
The judgment of the District Court is
Affirmed.

