WESTERN & ATLANTIC v. PUBLIC COMM.

493

Counsel for Parties.

WESTERN & ATLANTIC RAILROAD v. GEORGIA
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 209. Argued January 20, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.
1.' A rule of a -state public service commission that railroad switching service to which shippers are entitled by law or by rule of the
commission, whether or not granted voluntarily by the railroad,
,shall not be discontinued without the consent of the commission
after notice and hearing, is reasonable and within the police
power of the State. P. 496.
2. An order of a state commission requiring a railroad to continue
to furnish switching service to ,a shipper on an established industrial siding does not deprive the railroad of property without due
process, in violation of the Fourteenth'Amendment, merely because
the switching, separately considered, may not be profitable to the
railroad, or may even involve a loss. P. 496.
3. Under § 402 of the Transportation Act, 1920, the power to order
establishment or abandonment of such side tracks, though employed largely for interstate commerce, is not with the Interstate
Commerce Commission but with the States. P. 497.
4. A bill to enjoin a state commission from enforcing an order requiring the plaintiff railroad to maintain service on an industrial
'switch track, will not lie upon the ground that the service creates
undue discrimination between interstate shippers in cost of transportation, since this is a question which must be presented to the
Interstate Commerce Commission. P. 497.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court refusing a
temporary injunction in a suit to restrain the appellee
commission from enforcing an order requiring the appellant railroad to maintain service on an industrial side
track.
Mr. Fitzgerald Hall, with whom Messrs. H. C. Peeples,
Frank Slemons, and William Waller were on the brief
for the appellant.
Mr. W. E. Watkins, for appellees.

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

MR. CrnnF JusTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Western & Atlantic Railroad Company, an interstate common carrier, filed this bill in the District Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Georgia
against the Georgia Public Service Commission and its
members, to enjoin the enforcement of an order of the
Commission requiring the railroad to furnish switching
service on an industrial siding to the National Bonded
Warehouse, Inc., of Atlanta, Georgia.
In accordance with the limitations of § 266 of the Judicial Code, an application was made for a temporary
injunction to a court consisting of a Circuit and two District Judges. The application was denied and this appeal
was taken.
The industrial siding in-question diverges from the main
line of the Railroad Company, afid was built many years
ago for the convenience of industries then located on it.
At the present time J. K. Shippey and the National
Bonded Warehouse are the only industries served by it.
The siding is all upon the right of way of the Railroad
Company.
On August 2, 1923, the Railroad Company notified the
Warehouse Company, that unless it signed a standard
form of contract in respect to the sidetrack, its use and
maintenance, which had been submitted to it, the service
would be discontinued after August 15th. The Warehouse Company made complaint to the Public Service
Commission. *The Commission advised the Railroad
Company that no application from the Company had
been made to the Commission for such authority, which,
under its Rule 14, was necessary before the service could
be discontinued. However, on August 28th a full hearing
was held by the Commission with the parties present, and
as a result of such hearing it wa ordered that, effective

WESTERN & ATLANTIC v. PUBLIC COMM.
493

495

Opinion of the Court.

immediately on receipt of the. order, the Railroad Company should restore the service. Thereupon this bill was
filed.
The bill avers that the Warehouse Company's premises
are two city blocks, or 1600 feet, from the Railroad's
public team tracks, which are adequate in size and construction conveniently and properly to handle all the public business, including that of the Warehouse Company;
and that since the discontinuance of switching service on
August 15th, conformably to the notice given, the Railroad has been ready to serve that industry on public team
tracks; and that industrial sidings like the one in question
have been put in without any care to avoid undue discrimination between interstate shippers in cost of transportation. It says that of the business done over the side
track 85 per cent. is interstate. The Railroad Company
therefore avers that if it does not continue the service as
required by the order, it will be subject to penalty under
the Georgia state law, and that if it obeys the order it will
be guilty of undue discrimination under the interstate
commerce law, and so will be subject to a heavy penalty
in the federal jtrisdiction.
The bill further alleges that the side track is out of repair and that in order to put it in proper condition it
will require an expenditure of $440, that the receipts
from the switching are but a small part of the cost
of it and that enforced compliance with the order will
thus deprive the Company of its property without, due
process of law..
The order made by the Commission was based on its
General Order 14, promulgated December 23, 1909, which
provided that any and all facilities and privileges enjoyed by shippers to which they were entitled by law orany rule of the -Commission, whether granted by voluntary action on behalf of the railroad companies or
otherwise, should not be discontinued without the consent of the Railroad Commission.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924
Opinion of the Court

.267 U. S.

The three-judge court refused the application, on the
ground that Rule 14 had not been complied with. Rule
14 is a reasonable rule and the Commission was fully justified in refusing to sanction a discontinuance of service
until a petition had been filed with the Commission and
a showing made. The doubt which arises in our minds
is whether the Public Service Commission, by its consent
to a full hearing of the issue without a formal petition
and an order based on the merits, did not waive the defect
of a petition. The action of the Company in discontinuing the service without a petition was arbitrary and defiant, but the subsequent action of the Commission seems
to have condoned the fault in such a way as to prevent
our making it a reason for not looking farther into the
issues now raised by the Company in its bill.
It is said that the requirement of the continuance of
the service deprived the Company of its property without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment, because the service rendered by the sidetrack was much greater in out-of-pocket cost than the
compensation. This can not be sustained. The service
has been rendered for years. It was a voluntary arrangement, and under its statutory powers (§ 2664,
Georgia Code, 1910) was made irrevocable by the Public.
Service Commission under Rule 14, except by consent of
the Commission. The spur" track was for a public purpose. Union Lime Co. v. C. & N. W. Ry. Co., 233 U. S.
211. The requirement that such a service should not be
discontinued without notice and hearing was clearly
within the police power of the State. Chicago & Northwestern R. R. Co. v. Ochs, 249 U. S. 416k Lake Erie &
Western R. R. Co. v. Cameron, 249 U. S.422; Railroad
Commission v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 148 Ga. 442. Even if
the cost of the switching is more than what is received
for it, we can not determine on any showing made by
the Company that the switching -does not work a benefit

WESTERN & ATLANTIC v. PUBLIC COMM. 497
493

Opinion of the Court.

in the increased business that the Company gets, or may
get, by reason of the added facilities furnished by the
switching. The switch is a small part of the whole railway, and the mere fact that the switching may not be
profitable by itself can not be held to be a confiscation of property, even if it involves a loss. See Fort
Smith Light & Traction Company v. Bourland, 267
U. S. 330.
It seems to be the contention of the Company that,
since 85 per cent. of the business done on the side track
is interstate commerce, the power to order its establishment or abandonment is vested in the Interstate Commerce Commission, and that the state commission is
-without authority in the premises. Such a claim is in
the teeth of the Transportation Act of 1920, 41 Stat. 456,
c. 91, § 402, par. 22, which provides that the authority
of the commission conferred by § 402 over the extension
or abandonment of interstate railway lines shall not
extend to the construction of spur industrial or side
tracks. See Railroad Commission v. Southern Pacific
Co., 264 U. S.331, 345.
The question whether the continuance of the service on
this industrial track violates the Interstate Commerce
Act as unduly discriminatory, is one that involves issues
not primarily for the "courts, but is for the Interstate
Commerce Commission. It requires a consideration by
experts of the benefit of the use of such a siding as compared with that of other sidings, in connection with the
rates in interstate commerce, to determine whether there
is undue discrimination between shippers. The Railroad Company is therefore in no position to appeal to
the courts on this ground until it has invoked the investigation and decision of the Interstate Commerce
Commission upon the concrete facts in a proper manner.
See Great Northern Railway v. Merchants Elevator Co.,
259 U. S.285, 291, and the cases cited on page 295. If

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

and when the Commission shall have made such an investigation and have found the existence of undue discrimination, its order may well not be a specific direction against a continuance of service on a particular siding, but an order upon the Company to remove the undue discrimination between interstate shippers, giving
discretion to the Company to adopt a satisfactory
method of meeting the requirement. Compare Houston
& Texas Railway v. United States, 234 U. S. 342, 360;
American Ry. Express v. Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617, 624.
In any event, relief can not be had by this bill, on the
ground of undue discrimination, at the present stage of
the controversy.

Aflrmed.
STEELE v. UNITED STATES No. 1.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORk.

No. 235. Argued March 11, 1925.-Decided April 13, 1925.
1. Description, in a search warrant, of a building as a garage used
for business purposes, giving its street and one of its two house
numbers, held sufficiently definite, under the circumstances, for
search of the whole building, which had three street entrances,
and means of access between its parts on the ground and upper
floors, and was used in conducting an automobile garage and storage
business. P. 502.
2.. A search warrant sufficiently describes the place to be searched
if it enables the officer, with reasonable effort, to identify it.
P. 503.
3. A warrant authorizing search of a building used as a garage, and
any building or rooms connected or used in connection with the
garage, held to justify search of the upper rooms connected with
the garage by elevator. P. 503.
4.'Search of rooms in a building used by a business held not unlawful under Prohibition Act § 25, because one of the rooms, not
searched and in which no liquor was found, was slept and cooked
in by an employee of the business. P. 503.

