352

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Syllabus.

267 U. S.

officers of the plaintiff for the purpose of saving for themselves such rights, privileges, and conveniences as were
indicated by the Director General, and was signed for
this jiurpose only and not otherwise, and for the supposed
concessions set out in the contract itself." The allegation
does not charge facts constituting legal duress. United
States v. Child & Co., 12 Wall. 232, 244. Nor is it claimed
that the agreement is void because of duress.
As in the St. Louis Company case, the Director General
clearly had authority to enter into the agreement in question.
Affirmed.
GRAYSON ET AL. v. HARRIS ET AL.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

'No. 187.

Argued January 16, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925..

1. Judgment held reviewable by certiorari and not by writ of error.
P. 353.
2. Paragraph 6 of the Supplemental Creek Agreement, confirmed by
Act of June 30, 1902, c. 1323, 32 Stat. 500, declares that descent
and distribution of land and money provided by Act of March 1,
3901, c. 676, 31 Stat. 861, shall be in accordance with c. 49 of Mansfield's Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas, in force in the Indian
Territory, but contains provisos, (a) that only citizens of the
Creek Nation and their Creek descendants shall inherit lands of
the Creek Nation, but (b) that, if there be no person of Creek citi.zenship to take descent, then the inheritance shall go to non-citizen heirs in the order named in said chapter 49. Held,
That the preferred right of Creek citizens to inherit Creek allotted
lands applies not only to inheritance immediately from the original
allottee but also in subsequent stages of devolution, so that where
an allotment made originally in the names of deceased Creek freedmen was inherited from them by an heir who was a Creek citizen.
upon her death it descended to her more remote kindred, who were
Creek citizens, in preference to her next of kin who was neither a
Creek citizen nor a descendant of a Creek citizen. P. 355.

GRAYSON v. HARRIS.
352

Opinion of the Court.

3. Where the state court decided as a pure matter of fact that plaintiffs were Creek citizens, but by error of law denied them their
resultant federal right to preference in inheritance of Creek lands,
held, that the finding of fact was not so related to the denial of
federal right as to be regxaminable in this Court. P. 357.
4. The rule that, when the decision of a state court may rest upon a
non-federal ground adequate to support it, this Court will not take
jurisdiction to determine the federal question, has no application
where the non-federal ground might have been considered by the
state court, but was not. P. 358.
90 Okla. 147 reversed.
ERROR and certiorari to a decree of the Supreme Court
of Oklahoma which reversed a decree in favor of Graysoi
et al. in their suit to recover an inferest in a Creek Indian
allotment and for an accounting for oil and gas extracted
from-it.

Mr. Robert M. Rainey, with whom Messrs. Streeter B.
Flynn, William Neff, Lewis E. Neff, less W. Watts and
Charles G. Watts, were on the briefs for petitioners.
Mr. Robert F. Blair, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SUTERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit brought in a state court of Oklahoma to.
determine title to an undivided half interest in certain
lands in that state lying within the former Creek Nation.
The case is here both on error and certiorari. 263 U. S.
696. The latter is the appropriate remedy, and the writ
of error will be dismissed.
Defendants in error claim title through one Cloria
Grayson, and it is admitted that they acquired by mesne
conveyances, and have, whatever title she had. The lands
were originally allotted in the names of two freedmen,'
citizens of the Creek Nation, who had died prior to the
allotment, leaving Gertrude Grayson and another as

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

their only Creek heirs at law; and ownership of an undivided half interest in the lands passed to each of them.
Gertrude Grayson died intestate and without issue in
1907, leaving as her next of kin her maternal grandmother,
Cloria Grayson, who was not a Creek citizen nor a descendant of a Creek citizen, and these plaintiffs in error,
remote kindred in various degrees, all of whom were Creek
citizens. This was prior to the admission of Indian Territory and the Territory of Oklahoma as the State of Oklahoma, and by the Act of May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26 Stat. 81,
95, ยง 31, the general law in force in Indian Territory in
respect of descents and distributions was chapter 49 of
Mansfield's Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas. If this
law applies, it is conceded that Cloria Grayson succeeded
to the half interest of Gertrude Grayson as her sole heir
at law; in which event title of defendants in error is good
and plaintiffs in error have no case. The contention on
behalf of plaintiffs in error, however, is that the rights of
the parties are controlled by the provisos found in paragraph 6 of the supplemental Creek agreement, ratified and
confirmed by the Act of June 30, 1902, c. 1323, 32 Stat.
500, 501, -as follows:
"6. The provisions of the act of Congress approved
March 1, 1901 (31 Stat. L., 861), in so far as they provide for descent and distribution according to the laws of
the Creek Nation, are hereby repealed and the descent and
distribution of land and money provided for by said act
shall be in accordance with chapter 49 of Mansfield's
Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas now in force in Indian
Territory: Provided, That only citizens of the Creek Nation, male and female, and their Creek descendants shall
inherit lands of the Creek Nation: And provided further,
That if there be no person of Creek citizenship to take the
descent and distribution of said estate, then the inheritance shall go to noncitizen heirs in the order named in
said chapter 49."

GRAYSON v. HARRIS.
352

Opinion bf the Court.

In addition to claim of title, defendants in error denied
that plaintiffs in error were Creek citizens and alleged in
bar adverse possession of the lands for the applicable
statutory period. The trial court found for plaintiffs in
error on all issues and rendered a decree in their favor.
Upon appeal the state supreme court reversed the decree
upon the assumption that the provisos in paragraph 6
related only to the devolution of the allotment from the
allottee-that is, thp first succession-and that, since Gertrude Grayson was not the allottee but inherited her half
interest by operation of law, the provisos had no application. 90 Okla. 147. The effect of this ruling was to read
into the provisos a limitation which plainly is not there,
apparently induced by the belief that a literal interpretation would lead to absurd and unwise results.
The conclusion is not in accord with the prior views of
this court, to which the state supreme court gave no consideration. In Washington v. Miller, 235 U. S. 422, it
was held that the proviso, that only citizens of the Creek
Nation and their Creek descendants should "inherit lands
of the Creek Nation," looked to the future as well as to
the present. The theory had been advanced that lands
which had passed into private ownership were no longer
lands of the tribe (that is to say, no longer "lands of the
Creek Nation ") and, therefore, not within the words of
the proviso. Answering that theory this court said (p.
427): "We think the words indicated were merely descriptive of the body of lands which were being allotted
in severalty and subjected to the incidents of individual
ownership, that is, the lands in the Creek Nation. In
that sense they would include the lands as well 'after
allotment as before. The section as a whole shows that it
looked to the future no less than to the present, and was
intended to prescribe rules of descent applicable to all
Creek allotments. Nothing in the provisos indicates thatthey were to be less comprehensive. Their purpose Was to

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

give Creek citizens and their Creek descendants apreferred
right to inherit, and no reason is perceived for giving
such a preference where a citizen entitled to an allotment
died before receiving it that would not be equally applicable if he had died after it was received." In the present
case stress is laid by defendants in error upon the use of
the word "allotments" in the phrase "to prescribe rules
of descent applicable to all Creek allotments," and it is
insisted that the court meant thereby to limit the operation of the proviso to lands in their descent from the
allottee and not thereafter. The word was not used in
that restricted sense, but in the broader sense which includes all Creek lands which had gone through the process
of allotment.
. The purpose and policy of the provisos rest upon tribal
rather than family sentiment, a sentiment which put the
interests of.the tribe above those of the family, and regarded the claims which spring from tribal membership
rather than those arising from close degrees of kinship.
This view is expressed in the later case of Campbell v.
Wadsworth, 248 U. S. 169, 175, dealing with the Seminole
agreement of 1899. Under the provision in that agreement, that if any member of the tribe die after enrollment the lands, etc., to which he would be entitled if living "shall descend to his heirs who are Seminole citizens," it was held that the lands of an Indian, enrolled as
a Seminole, did not descend to his wife and daughters,
enrolled only as Creeks. Answering the position of the
state supreme court that only "the most powerful and
impelling reasons" could induce it to hold that the Indians intended to exclude their own children from sharing in their propertyafter death, this court said: "While
it is true that it seems unnatural for the Indians to have
preferred more distant relatives to their own children in
providing for the .descent and distribution of their property, yet from the terms of the act-before us, and also

GRAYSON v. HARRIS.
352

357-

Opinion of the Court.

from the provisions of the Supplemental Creek Agreement
that 'only citizens of the Creek Nation, male and female,
and their Creek descendants shall inherit lands of the
Creek 'Nation ' (32 Stat. 500), it is clear that with the Indians the interests- of the tribe were paramount to those
of the family and it was with a knowledge of the mode of
life of their primitive people. better and more intimate
than the courts can now command, that they determined
that this paramount purpose would best be served by
giving to children born of mixed marriages the tribal
status of their mother."
The lands of the -Creek Nation were tribal lands and
the evident purpose of the Indians vas to continue at
least a semblance of that status so far as it could be done
consistently with their distribution in severalty. With the
wisdom of that purpoie we have nothing to do. It is
enough that Congress respected it and gave to it the sanction of law.
On behalf of defendants in error, it is asserted: (1) that
there was an entire absence of proof that plaintiffs in
error are citizens of the Creek Nation,-and we are asked
to review the record in that respect in order to determine
whether there was any basis for the .claim of federal right;
and (2) that an examination of the record will show that
the plea of the statute of limitations was fully established
and, therefore, the decision of the state supreme court
reasonably may be affirmed on that non-federal ground.
The point that the evidence fails td show that plaintiffs
in error were Creek citizens presents a pure question of
fact. The trial court found they were. The state supreme
court expressly affirmed the finding, and, recognizing the.
existence of the federal question in the case, put its decision denying the federal right upon an erroneous view
of the law. The denial was not the result of the finding
of fact, nor is that finding so intermingled with the conclusion of law in respect of the federal right as to cause

358

3OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

it to be necessary to consider the matter of fapt in order
to pass upon the federal question. See Aetna Life Ins. Co.
et al. v. Dnken, 266 U. S. 389; Truax v. Corrigan, 257
U. S. 312,324-325, and cases cited; Nor. Pac.Ry. v. North
Dakota,236 U. S. 585, 593; Creswill v. Knights of Pythias,
225 U. S. 246, 261; Kansas City So. Ry. v.'Albers Comm.
Co., 223 U. S. 573, 591. The effect of the finding was to
establish the existence of a preliminary fact, related to the
federal-right only in the sense that it brought the case
within the reach of the federal law rdlied on and called
for a determination of the federal question then presented. In other words, the finding simply established a
condition, not as a basis upon which to rest a decision of
the question of federal right one way or the other, but
upon which that question became an issue for consideration and determination. In such'case, the ordinary rule
applies that-the decision ofthe-state court upon a question
of fact can not be made the subject of inquiry here. Telluride Power Co. v.'Rio Grande, etc. Ry., 175 U. S. -639,
645; Illinois v. Economy Power Ca., 234 U. S. 497, 523524; Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658, 668, et seq.; Crary
v. Devlin, 154 U. . 619; Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188,
192; Carpenterv. Williams, 9 Wall. 785, 786.
Nor need we inquire into the defense of the stat-te a2
limitations. The decision now under review entirely
ignores it. The rule that, when the decision of a state
court may rest upon a non-federal ground: adequate to
support it, this court will not take jurisdiction to determine the federal question, has no application where, as
here, the non-federal ground might have been considered
by the state court but was not. Rogers v. Hennepin
County, 240 U. S. 184, 188-189;.HendersonBridge Co. v.
Henderson City, 173 U. S. 592, 608.
It is said *that in an earlier opinion the state supreme
court ruled in favor of defendants in error upon the two
points last discussed. But that opinion, it appears, was

OHIO UTILITIES CO. v. COMMISSION.
352

359

Statement of the Case.

withdrawn and the present decision, rendered after a rehearing, is the only one open to our consideration. The
decree of the state supreme court is reversed and the cause
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Writ of error dismissed.
Decree reversed.
OHIO TTTLITIES COMPANY v. PUBLIC UTILITIES

COMMISSION OF OHIO.
FRROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

No. 210. Argued January 20, 21, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. In determining the reproduction value of the plant of a public
utility as a basis for fixing its rates, there should be a reasonable
allowance for organization and other overhead charges that necessari!3 would be incurred in reproducing it; and the amount of
such, allowance is a matter of estimate not dependent on proof of
actual expenditures originally made to defray such charges. P. 362.
2. An order of a state commission, affirmed by the state supreme
court, fixed rates for an electric company 'allowing a return of
less than 5% upon the value of its property, this result being
reached by arbitrarily refusing any allowance for preliminary
organization expenses, and by arbitrarily reducing allowances for
interest during the construction period, working capital, value of
buildings and plant equipment, and operating expenses, below the
amounts estahlished as reasonable by the undisputed evidence before the commission, Held that the return was so inadequate as to
result in deprh ing the company of property without due process
of law; and that the company was not accorded the sort of judicial
inquiry tc ,-hi,.'h under the decisions of this Court it was entitled.
P. 361.
108 Ohio St. 14J3, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio

which affirmed.an order of the Ohio Public Utilities Commission reducing the rates chargeable by the plaintiff in
error for electricity.

