BUSH CO. v. MALOY.
307

Syllabus.

St. Louis Co. v. PrendergastCa., 260 U. S. 469, 472. But
in the case at bar, Buck does not rely upon any provision
of the statute assailed; and he has received no benefit
under it. He was willing, if permitted to use the highways, to comply with all laws relating to common carriers.
But the permission sought was denied. The case presents no element of estoppel. Compare Arizona v. Copper Queen Mining'Co., 233 U. S. 87, 94 et seq.
Reversed.

MR. JusTcE MCREYxOLDS dissented and delivered a
separate opinion in this case and the one next following.
See post, p. 325.
GEORGE W. BUSH & SONS COMPANY v. MALOY
ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION OF MARYLAND.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
MARYLAND.

No. 185. Argued January'16, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.
1. A statute of Maryland, 1922, c. 401, prohibits common carriers
of merchandise or freight by motor vehicle from using public
highways over specified routes without a permit; requires a commission to investigate the expediency of granting a permit when
applied for, and authorizes it to refuse if it deems the granting
of the permit prejudicial to the welfare and convenience of the
public. Held unconstitutional as applied to one desirous of using
the highways as a common carrier in exclusively interstate commerce. Buck v. Kuykendall, ante, p. 307. P. 323.
2. The facts that the highways here in question were not constructed
or improved with federal aid, and that refusal of the pernift is
not mandatory under the statute but in exercise of a broad discretion vested in the commission, do not affect this conclusion.
P. 324.
143 Md. 570, reversed.

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

267 U. S

ERRoa to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of Maryland which affirmed a judgment dismissing a bill for an
injunction.
Mr. William L. Rawls and Mr. George Weems Williams
for plaintiff in error.
The proprietary interest of the State of Maryland in its
highways gives it no power to prohibit their use for the
purpose of-transporting goods for hire in interstate commerce, where the vehicles employed are such as are freely
permitted by the State to be used upon its highways.
The fact that Congress has enacted no legislation affecting or regulating interstate motor transportation does not
leave the States free to prohibit such transportation.
By virtue of the commerce clause of the federal Constitution, the right to engage in interstate commerce cannot be denied by any State, and the question as to
whether or not the public interest will be promoted by
any limitation upon this right is one exclusively for the
,determination of Congress. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1; Pensacola Tel. Co. v. Western Union Co., 96 U. S. 9;
Poole v. Electric Ry. Co., 88 Md. 533; Peddicord v. R.
Co., 34 Md. 463; Adams Express Co. v. New York, 232
U. S. 14.
That § 4 of the Act of 1922, was intended to deal with
this right to engage in interstate business, and was not
concerned with the safety of the public upon the highways, appears not only from the language of the section,
but is also clear from the fact that other sections of the
article of the Code of Maryland, to which this act was
an amendment, namely, Article 36, §§ 133-200, made
elaborate and detailed provisions respecting the "rules
of the road" and the operation of automobiles thereon.
The only aspect of public safety within the purview of
the ict, as construed by the Maryland Court of Appeals,
is the reduction of the number of motor trucks upon the

BTSH CO.. v. MALOY.
317

319

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

highways resulting from the .elimination of the trucks of
any common carrier whose use are hot essential to theneeds and convenience of the public. This is but the
assertion after all, of the power to determine what the
needs and convenience of the public are with respect to
interstate transportation, and of the right on the part
of the State to exercise a power which has been delegated
exclusively to Congress.
When there has been no attempt to restrict by legislation the use of the highways by the public generally, and
when they are freely opened to everybody else, it is manifest that whatever may be the power of the State with
respect to a carrier engaged in domestic commerce purely,
it cannot under such circumstances exclude carriers engaged in interstate commerce solely upon the fragile
ground that their exclusion will result in the lessening of
the number of vehicles upon the road and will to that
extent promote the safety of the traveling public. If
common carriers in interstate commerce could be excluded
on any such ground when using exactly the same vehicles
which are freely permitted upon the highways, then for
the same reason the State would have the power to select
any other form of interstate commerce and impose the
same restrictions upon it, thus giving it control over the
whole field of interstate commerce in so far as the use
of its highways in that connection is concerned.
It cannot escape notice that the several recent decisions
of the state and lower federal courts upon this subject,
(Northern PacificRy. Co. v. Schoenfeldt, 1 3 Wash. 570;
Interstate Motor Transit Co. v. Kuykendall, 284 Fed.
882; Liberty Highway Co. v. Michigan Public. Utilities
Co., 294 Fed. 702; Interstate Transit Company v. Derr
et al., 228 Pac. 624) in effect cbncede that there is no
peculiar power vested in the States by reason of their
mere ownership of their highways; for they all announce
that the legislation of the States undertaking to regulate

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

267 U. S.

interstate travel over highways is only sustainable in the
absence of regulation by Congress..
The failure of Congress to enact legislation is equivalent
to the declaration of freedom from any state interference.
Oklahoma v. Kansas National Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229.
In a long line of cases this Court has held that a State
has no power whatever to require the obtaining of a
license from it as a prerequisite to engaging in interstate commerce. Adams Express Co. v. New York,
supra; Crutcher v. Kentuqky, 141 T. S. 47; Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U.. S. 1.
The right to transport goods in accustomed ways, and
to use existing instrumentalities for that purpose upon
complying with the conditions imposed upon the public
generally, is clearly interstate commerce, national in character. Distinguishing Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public
Service Comm., 252 U. S. 23; Port Richmond & B. P.
Ferry Co. v. Hudson County, 234 U. S. 317. See Sault
Ste. Marie v. International Transit Co., 234 U. S. 333.•
Mr. Thomas H. Robinson, Attorney General of the
State of Maryland, and Mr. Edward H. Burke, Assistant
Attorney General, for defendants in error.
The State, at the cost of many millions of dollars to
the taxpayers, has established a fine system of improved
public highways, and is expending millions more in the
extension, improvement and maintenance of this system.
So~me of the public highways over which the plaintiff in
error seeks to operate its motor trucks, as instrumentalities of interstate commerce, were built by and are owned
by the State, and others are the property of certain counties of the State. The State has declared that certain
carriers of passengers, as well as common carriers of merchandise or freight by means of motor vehicles, shall not
operate their motor trucks over streets and public highways, of the State without permission granted by the
Public Service Commission.

BUSH CO. v. MALOY.
317

321

Argument for--efendants in Error.

Jitney busses and taxi-cabs for the public transpdrtation of passengers, and common carriers of freight and
merchandise, are numerous, and all are operating their
motor vehicles by the permission of the State. It is common knowledge that large trucks, such as the plaintiff in
error proposes to use, are not only dangerous to the persons and property of other users of the road, but are
destructive of the highways themselves and interfere a
great deal with the convenience of travel.
If the position of the plaintiff in error be sustained,
common carriers of freight or passengers by simply incorporating in an adjoining State and confining themselves
to interstate commerce would escape all control of the
Stite in matters of vital interest to the people.
The principles controlling in a case like this, where
Congress has taken no action with respect to the'inter-state transportation involved, are stated in Minnesota
Rate Ccmes, 230 U. S.352.
By reason of difference in the character, construction,
width and location of roads and the strength of bridges
in the various States, it appears doubtful if any general
system or uniformity of regulation could be adopted, and
as the matter admits of such "diversity of treatment
according to the special requirements of local conditions,"
it has been left with the States until Congress sees fit to
act.

Hendrick y. Maryland, 235 U. S.610, and Kane v.

State, 242 U. S.160, support our contention.
That there is a necessity for regulation is evidenced by
the fact that no less than thirty-one States of the Union
have enacted statutes on the subject.
The question, therefore, narrows itself into one of reasonableness vel non of the Maryland statute.
The right asserted by the plaintiff in error is not the
right of travel over the highway in the customary and
ordinary way, but the privilege of making the highway
itself a place of business. It is this special and extraor-

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

267 U.S.

dinary use of the highway that the statute is designed to
regulate. In ex parte Dickey, 76 W. Va. 576; Schoenfeld
v. Seattle, 265 Fed. 726; Nolen v. Riechman., 225 Fed.
812; State v. Darazza, (Conn.) 118 Atl. 81; G-izzarelli v.
Presbrey, (R. I.) 117 Atl. 359.
The Maryland Act, recognizing that "the movement
of motor vehicles over the highways is attended by constant and serious danger to the public, and is also abnormally destructive of the ways themselves", was designed,
as found by the Court of Appeals, "to restrict to the
needs of the public the number of motor vehicles used in
the transportation of freight or merchandise. upon any
one route and thereby avoid the additional injury and
damage to the roads or highways, and the danger to
persons traveling thereon, that would result from the use
of a greater number than the needs and convenience of
the public require."
The public for whose protection the Maryland statute
was passed are all those who use the highways in the
exercise of the right to travel over them which is common
to all and which is freely accorded to all alike by the State,
whether engaged in intrastate or interstate commerce.
The Act, therefore, in so far as it assures and protects
the common and ordinary right of citizens of other States
in the use of the highways, so far from unreasonably
restricting and forbidding interstate commerce, is in aid
of such commerce. The width of the road, the character
of its construction, the strength of the bridges, the amount
of ordinary and customary travel on the road, the special
and extraordinary uses to which it may have already been
subjected, are all circumstances to be taken into consideration in determining whether or not an additional
burden upon the road by way of a freight motor bus line
is "prejudicial to the welfare and convenience of the
public."
There must be some limitation upon such rights as are
asserted by the plaintiff in error in. this case. To make

BUSH CO. v. MALOY.
317

Opinion of the Court.

the exercise of such rights depend upon the welfare and
convenience of the public and to restrict or deny them if
their exercise be prejudicial to such welfare and convenience, is both reasonable and necessary. Crutcher v.
Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, and Adams Express Co. v. New
York, 232 U. S. 14, distinguished.
Neither by the Act of 1922 nor by the order of the
Commission complained of is it required that the plaintiff
in error shall obtain a permit from the Commission as a
condition of carrying on interstate commerce. Neither
the Act nor the order imposes any direct or indirect
burden or restriction upon the plaintiff's right to engage
in interstate commerce.
The only effect of the order is that it cannot operate
its trucks over the highways of the State as it has done
and proposes to continue to do. Neither the Act nor the
order is a commercial regulation.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
A statute of Marylapd prohibits common carriers of
merchandise or freight by motor vehicle from using the
public highways over specified routes without a permit.
The Public Service Commission is.charged with the duty
to "investigate the expediency of granting said permit"
when applied for; and it is authorized to refuse the same
if it "deems the granting of such permit prejudicial to
the welfare and convenience of the- public." Laws of
Maryland, 1922, c. 401, § 4.
George W. Bush & Sons Co. applied for a permit to do
an exclusively interstate business as a common carrier of
freight over specified routes, alleging its willingness and
intention to comply with all applicable regulations concerning the operation of motor vehicles. After due hearing the permit was denied. This suit was brought in a
court of the State to restrain the state officials from inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U.S.

fering with such use of the company's trucks. The bill
alleged, and it was admitted by demurrer, that the highways were not unduly congested; that they are so constructed that they can carry burdens heavier than that
which would be imposed by plaintiff's trucks; that the
operation of its trucks would impose no different burden
upon the highways than the operation of the trucks of
the same kind and character by private persons, which
was freely permitted; and that, in refusing the permit,
the Commission had considered merely "whether or not
existing lines of transportation would be benefited or
prejudiced and in this way the public interest affected."
The plaintiff claimed that, regardless of permit, it was
entitled to use the highways as a common carrier in exclusively interstate commerce. The trial court dismissed the
bill. Its decree was affirmed by the highest court of the
State. 143-Md. 570. The case is here on writ of error
under § 237 of the Judicial Code.
This case presents two features which were not present
in Buck v.- Kuykendall, ante, p. 307, decided this day.
The first is that the highways here in'question were not
constructed or improved with federal aid. This difference
does' not prevent the application of the rule declared in
the Buck Case. The federal-aid legislation is of significance, not because of the aid given by the United States
for the construction of particular highways, but because
those acts make clear the purpose of Congress that state
highways shall be open to interstate commerce. The second feature is that here the permit was refused by the
Commission, not in obedience to a mandatory provision
of the state statute, but in the exercise, in a proper manner, of the broad discretion vested in it. This difference
also is not of legal significance in this connection. The
state action in the Buck Case was held to be unconstitutional, not because the statute prescribed an arbitrary test
for the granting oT permits, or because the Director of

BUSH CO. v. MALOY.
317

MCREY.uOLDS,

325

J., dissenting.

Public Works had exercised the power conferred arbitrarily or unreasonably, but because the statute as construed and applied invaded a field reserved by the Commerce Clause for federal regulation.
Reversed.
The separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS,"
delivered in this case and the one immediately preceding
it, ante, p. 307.
I am of opinion that the courts below reached correct
conclusions in these causes.
The States have spent enormous sums in constructing
roads and must continue to maintain and protect them at
great cost if they are to remain fit for travel.
The problems arising out of the sudden increase of
motor vehicles present extraordinary difficulties. As yet
nobody definitely knows what should be dorfe. Manifestly, the exigency cannot be met through uniform rules
laid down by Congress.
Interstate commerce has been greatly aided-amazingly facilitated, indeed-through legislation and expenditures by the States. The challenged statutes do not discriniinate against such commerce, do not seriously impede
it, and indicate an honest purpose to promote the best
interests of all by preventing unnecessary destruction and
keeping the ways fit for maximum service.
The Federal Government has not and cannot undertake
-precise regulations. Control by the States must continue, otherwise chaotic conditions will quickly develop.
The problems are essentially local, and should be left with
the local authorities unless and until something is done
which really tends to obstruct the free flow of commercial
intercourse.
The situation is similar to the one growing out of the
necessity for harbor regulations. State statutes concerning pilotage, for example, have been upheld although they

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.

326

Statement of the Case.

267 U. S.

amounted to regulation of interstate and foreign commerce.

"They fall within that class of powers which

may be exercised by the States until Congress has seen
fit to act upon the subject."
332, 341.

Olsen v. Smith, 195 U. S.

SMYTH ET AL. v. ASPHALT BELT RAILWAY
COMPANY ET AL.
APP.AI; FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF TIE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS, TRANSFERRED
FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT, PURSUANT TO THE ACT OF CONGRESS
OF SEPTEMBER, 14, 1922.

No. 206.

Argued January 20, 1925.-Decided March 2, 1925.

1. The propriety of a transfer of a case from the Circuit Court of
,Appeals will be inquired into by this Court of its owm motion.
P. 327.
2. A decree of the District Court dismissing a bill "for lack of juris-diction" but in the absence of any challenge of the court's jurisdiction as a federal court, and based upon a conclusion, after full
hearing upon pleadings and evidence, that. the acts sought to be
enjoined were not violative of rights claimed by the plaintiff under
a federal statute,--held, not to involve the jurisdiction of the
District Court as a federal court, and not appealable directly to
this Court, but to the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 328.
3. When the District Court lacks jurisdiction as a federal court it is
without power to impose costs on the plaintiff. P. 330.
292 Fed. 876, returned to the Circuit Court of Appeals.

from a decree of th6 District Court which dismissed a bill by which the appellants sought to enjoin
condemnation of their land for Taiway purposes. The
case was transferred to this Court by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, to which th6 appeal was taken. It is now
returned to that court.
APPEAL

