452

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Decree.

267 U. S.

an income tax from which foreign corporations are exempted. It charges invalidity on the same grounds as
those set up in No. 320, [266 U. S. 373,] and brought
suit to recover 'the amount of the tax. Its complaint
was dismissed on motion. of the District Attorney upon
the authority of National Paper & Type Company v.
Edwards, Collector of Internal Revenue, 292 Fed. 633,
and judgment went on the merits.
The cause was submitted with No. 320, just decided.
It presents the same contentions, based upon the same
grounds. And* upon the authority of our decision in
that case, the judgment below is
Affirmed.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN EQUITY.

No. 13, Original.

Decree entered March 9, 1925.

Decree reciting and confirming the report by commissioners of the
survey, location and marking of a part of the boundary between

Texas and Oklahoma, along the Fort Augur Area; adjudging that
'the line shown by the report and maps be established as the true'
boundary between the two States along the part of Red River
so designated, subject to future changes by erosion and accretion;
and directing transmission of authenticated copies of the decree

and maps to the chief magisttates of the two States.

Announced by Mr. Justice Vn Devanter:'
On consideration of the report of the commissioners,
heretofore selected to run, locate and mark portions of
the boundary between the States of Texas and Oklahoma along the south bank of the Red River, showing
, Other orders -in the :case of *this date will be found among the

per curiam decisions, post, pp. 580, 582.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
452

453

Decree.

that they have run, located and marked the pbrtion of
such boundary along the Fort Augur Area-such report.
being as follows:
"To the Chief Justice and the Associate Justices of the
Supreme Court of the United States:
"Continuing our work as commissioners designated in
the decree of March 12, 1923 (261 U. S., 340), in the
above entitled cause, we have run, located and marked
upon the ground the boundaty between the States of
Texas and Oklahoma along the Red River from the Big
Bend Area westward to a southerly extension of the
west line of range sixteen west in" Oklahoma, in accordance with the decree and the principles announced in
the opinion delivered January 15, 1923 (260 U. S., 606),
and in the manner stated in our report of April 25, 1924
on the Big Bend Area. We have called this portion of
the boundary the 'Fort Augur Area.'
"The maps, which accompany and are made a part
of this report, are identified as follows:
Map No. 4: Cadastral Map of the Texas and Oklahoma
Boundary, Fort Augur -Area, scale 2,000
feet to the inch;
Map No. 5: Topographic Map of Texas and Oklahoma
Boundary, Fort Augur Area, in four
sheets, Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4, scale 500 feet to
the inch, contour interval 2 feet; and, a
Road Map: Showing location of Reference Monuments,
scale one mile to the inch.
"There are no oil wells within three hundred feet of
the boundary in the Fort Augur Area.
"The survey of this area was begun June 13, 1923;
and completed October .10, 1924, the triangulation being
done in 1923 and the other work being done after June 1,
1924.
"The loqation of the boundary, reported herein, is
that positiobi.which exiifed on September 3, 1924.

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Decree.

267 U.S.

"The field notes of the boundary survey and tabulations of technical data follow: 2
"Five copies each of the report and maps have-been
today sent by registered. mail to the Attorney General
of the United States, the Attorney General of Texas and
the Attorney General of Oklahoma. We have also filed
with the clerk of the court fifty copies of the report and
maps for the use of such private interveners as may
apply for them. Thirty additional copies of the report
and maps have been filed with the clerk for such disposition as the court may direct.
"The originals of the -three maps hereinbefore named
are bound with the original report, and appear in the
following order: Road Map showing location of Reference Monuments; -Map No. 4; and, Map No. 5, Sheets
Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4.
"Respectifully submitted,
"ARTHUR D. KIDDER,
"ARTHUR A. STILES,
"Commissioners.
"Washington, D. C., January 5, 1925."
And no objection or exception to such report being
presented, although the time therefor.has expired;
It is now adjudged, ordered and decreed that the said
report be in all respects confirmed.
It is further adjudged, ordered and decreed that the
line delineated and set forth in the report and on the
maps accompanying the same and referred to therein be
established and declared to be the true boundary between the States of Texas and Oklahoma along the part
of the Red River designated in such report subject however to such changes as may hereafter be wrought by the
2

The field notes and tabulations, covering 30 pages of the report,
are here omitted; as are also the maps. Copies of these matters,

when desired, may be obtained in the Clerk's Office; or in the offices
of the Chief Executives of the State. of Oklahoma and Texas,

SANFORD & BROOKS v. UNITED STATES. 455
452

Counsel for Parties.

natural and gradual processes known as erosion and accretion as specified in the second, third and fourth paragraphs of the decree rendered herein March 12, 1923,
261 U. S.340.
It is further ordered that the Clerk of this court do
transmit to the chief magistrates of the States of Texas
and Oklahoma copies of this decree, duly authenticated
under the seal of this court, together with copies of the
maps which accompanied the report of the commissioners.

SANFORD & BROOKS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 175.

Argued January 15, 1925.-Decided March 9, 1925.

1. Where a Government contract for dredging expressly required

prompt, written protest against any order for work outside the
specifications, written modification of the contract if altered materially, and written orders for extra work, held that oral protests
by the contractor, a claim for additional compensation and a favorable advrisory opinion thereon by a government official, were
insufficient to establish that these contract provisions were inapplicable or waived, or that a new, oral agreement for compensation
quantum meruit was substituted by implication. P. 457.
2. A motion to remand to the Court of Claims for further findings
should be submitted at the first term of the entry of the case so
that the Court may determine whether the motion shall be passed
upon in advance, or postponed until .the.hearing on the merits.
P. 458.
58 Ct. Cls. 158, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting a claim for additional compensation for dredging.

Mr. William L. Marbury, with whom Mr. Horace S.
Whitman and Mr. Charles Clagett were on the brief, for
appellant.

