PRICE v. MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO'
408

415

Syllabus.

3. The United States also relies, independently of the
foregoing matters, upon the decision in Re Brezin (D. C.)
297 Fed. 300, 306, in which it was held that as the individual partners, instead of drawing out their distributive
shares of the income of-the partnership from year to year
had left a large portion thereof in the partnership business, the United States had a claim in -the nature of an
equitable lien for the collection of their individual income
taxes which it could follow into the partnership property.
Whether or not thiscasewas correctly decided on its peculiar facts, it has no application to either of the present
cases, in which no such facts appear.
The decre.e of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
_____ _____Afflmecl.

PRICE ET AL. v. MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 14.

Argued November 13, 14, 1923.-Decided March 2, 1925.'

The Oklahoma Enabling Act provided that sections 33 of the public
lands, theretofore reserved, should .-be apportioned and disposed
of as the legislature might prescribe;., that, where 'any of the lands
granted the State were valuable for minerals, they should not be
sold before January 1, 1915,"but might be leased for peridds not
exceeding five years' on royalties, providing that agricultural
lessees in possessiin should be reimbursed by the mining lessees
for damages done their interests by mining operations; that the
lands "if sold" might be appraised and sold at public sale, under
such regulations as the State might prescribe, the preference right
to purchase at the -highest bid being given the lessee- "at time of
such sale"--Held, that an agricultural lessee was not entitled
under the act to compel a sale of the land covered by his lease
in order that he might purchase it; and that the State was
authorized, finding the tract valuable for oil and gas, to execute
an oil and gas lease to other parties, subject to the surface rights
of the agricultural lessee. Act of June 16, 1906, §§ 8, 10, c. 3335,
34 Stat. 267. P. 421.
86 0kda. 105, affirmed.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

ERROR to a judgment of-the Supreme Court of Oklahoma reversing a decree in~favor of the plaintiffs in error,
Price and wife, in a suit brought by the Petroleum Company to enjoin them from interfering with its operations
under an oil and gas lease on land covered by a prior
agricultural lease to Price. The State intervened to
assert its ownership of the land and uphold the oil and
.gas lease.

Mr. E. E. Blake, with whom Messrs. J. F. Sharp, C. B.
Stuart, M. K. Cruce,. and W. C. Stevens were on the
brief, for-plaintiffs in error. Mers. B. B. Blakeney, George E. Merritt and A. T.
Boys, for defendants in error. Messrs. George F. Short,
Attorney General of the State of Oklahoma, C. W. King,
Assistant Attorney General, W.'H.Francis and Herbert
Ambrister were also on the brief.

M_& JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The subject matter of this controversy is a tract of
land held by the State of Oklahoma as part of its public
land, on which it made two leases: the first an agricultural lease to William T. Price; the second an oil and gas
lease to the Magnolia Petroleum Co. The Magnolia
Company brought a suit in equity in a district court of
the State. to enjoin Price and wife from interfering with
its operations under the oil and gas lease. They made defense, alleging that the oil and gas lease was invalid and
impaired their preference right under the agricultural
lease to purchase the entire tract, including the oil and
gas therein. The State, as intervener, asserted its ownership of.the land and the validity of the oil and gas lease.
The -District 'Court, on final hearing, entered a decree in
favor of Price and wife. This was reversed by the Su-

PRICE v. MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO.
415

417

Opinion of the Court.

preme Court of Oklahoma, which adjudged and decreed
that the oil and gas lease to the Magnolia Company was
valid, and that Price and wife be perpetually enjoined
from interfering with its operations. 86 Okla. 105.
The federal questions presented rest, in substance, upon
the contention that as applied in this case the Oklahoma
acts under which the gas and oil lease to the Magnolia
Company was executed, deprived Price, as the agricultural 'lessee, of a preference right to purchase the land in
-its entirety, vested in him by the Oklahoma Enabling
Act of 1906.
The tract in controversy is a quarter of a section numbered 33 lying within the lands formerly included in the
Territory of Oklahoma that were opened to settlement.by
an Act of June 6, 1900.1 -This Act provided that sections
13 and 33 iii each township should not be subject to entry,
but should be "reserved" for "university, agricultural
colleges, normal schools and public buildings of the Territory and future State of Oklahoma."
Prior to statehood the Territorial Leasing Board made
short term agricultural leases on these reserved lands,
with preference rights of re-leasing.2
The Enabling Act of June 16, 1906,' by § 7 and § 8,
granted to the State, upon its admission, sections 13, 16
and 36 in the several townships of the Territory of Oklahoma, for the use and benefit of universities, colleges and
schools, as therein specified.
By § 8 it was provided that sections 33 theretofore reserved for charitable and penal institutions and public
buildings, should "be apportioned and disposed of as the
legislature of said State may prescribe "; -and, further,
that "Where any . . . of the lands granted by this
Act to the State . . . are valuable for minerals,"
'31 Stat. 672, c. 813, § 6.
Act of May 4, 1894, c. 68, 28 Stat. 71.
34 Stat. 267, c. 3335.

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U.S.

including gas and oil, they should not be sold by the
State before January 1, 1915, but might be leased for
periods not exceeding five years, at a fixed royalty ih addition to any bonus offered, "Provided, however, That
agricultural lessees in possession of such lands shall be
reimbursed by the mining lessees for all damage done
to said agricultural lessees' interest therein by reason
of such mining operations."
By § 10 it was provided that "said sections thirteen
and thirty-three, aforesaid, if sold, may be appraised
. under such rules and
and sold at public sale .
regulations as the legislature of said State may prescribe,
preference right to purchase at the highest bid being
given to the lessee at the time of such sale, but such
lands, may be leased for periods of not more than five
years . . . : Provided, That before any of the said
the said lands and the imlands shall be sold . .
provements thereon shall be appraised by three disinand in case the leaseholder
. .
terested appraisers
does not become the purchaser, the purchaser at said
the leaseholder the
sale shall . . . pay to . .
appraised value of said improvements, and to the State
the amount bid for the said lands, exclusive of the appraised value of improvements."
The terms and-conditions of the Enabling Act were
accepted by the State of Oklahoma by an "irrevocable"
ordinance. C6yle v. Oklahoma, 221 U. S. 559, 564;
Sperry Oil Co. v. Chisholm, 264 U. S.488, 493. And the
State by its constitution accepted all grants of land made
by the United States under the Act, "for the uses and
purposes and upon the conditions, and under the limitations for which the same are granted."4
The state constitution placed the sale and rental of the
public lands in charge of Commissioners of the Land
Ofice.5 By subsequent acts of the legislature it was pro*.

4Art. XI, § 1.

I

IArt. VI, § 32.

PRICE v. MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM CO. 419
415

Opinion of the Court.

vided: That the Commissioners should have an appraisal
made of all lands granted the State for educational and
public building purposes, showing the value of the lands
and of the improvements thereon, and the names of the
lessees occupying them;( that when any tract of the public lands was known or deemed by the Commissioners to
contain oil or gas or to be valuable for such purposes,
they should segregate the oil and gas deposits from the
surface use and interest, thereby withdrawing the land
from sale until they terminated such segregation, and
T
might separately lease the oil and gas interest therein;
that the Commissioners should sell certain of the public
lands, including sections 33 granted to the State for
charitable institutions and penal buildings, at public auction, at which any lessee holding a lease thereon should
"have the preference right to purchase" at the highest
bid;8 and that the reserved lands whose proceeds were to
be used for penal, charitable and public buildings, should
be leased until sold as provided by law.'
Oklahoma was admitted as a State in November,
The quarter section in controversy was not
"1907.1
known-then or for many years thereafter as oil and gas
land. It was then held by one Click under an agricultural lease from the Territorial Leasing Board to Janu.ary 1, 1908, with "a preference right" of re-leasing.
This right of ie-leasing was not questioned by the State.
The lease was extended for two successive years, first
under a general statute, 1 and then 'under rules of the
0

LaWs, 1907-8, c. 49, art. 2, p. 484.
Laws, 1907-8, c. 49, art. 4,'p. 490; modified in imma erial respects, by Laws, 1917, c. 253, p. 462.
7

Laws, 1909, c. 28, art. 2, p. 448.
"Laws, 1909, c. 28, art. 1, p. 440.
10 Proclamation of -the President, Nov. 16, 1907, 35 Stat. pt. 2, p.
2160.
11
Laws, 1907-8, c. 49, art. 2, p. 484.

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

Commissioners. In January, 1909, the land and the improvements thereon were appraised. In October, Price
purchased the interest of the lessee. After January 1,.
1910, he continued to occupy the land and pay rentals
thereon to the Commissioners, and was recognized by
them as the lessee.- In 1911, the Commissioners, after
advertisement, sold at publi sale the three other quarters
of the same section 33, and other public lands .in-the
vicinity. There is evidence that Price appeared at this
sale and requested the officers in charge to sell his quarter
section also, and that this was refused, the reason given
being that it had not been advertised. There is no evi-dence that he thereafter requested, at any time, that a
sale be made of this quarter section.
In 1913, the Commissioners leased Price this quarter
section, for agricultural and grazing purposes, until December 31, -1914. The lease recited that it was subject
to the right of the State t6 sell the land at any.time and
that, upon such sale, Price, as lessee of the land, should
be entitled to purchase the same at the highest bid, subject to the conditions provided by law; and also provided
that he should have "the preference right" to re-lease
the land as provided by the laws of the State. This lease
was subsequently extended for one year; and thereafrer
Price, without any formal extension or renewals of the
lease, continued in possession of the premises and paid
.rentals to the Commissioners, and was in such possession,
holding over as the agricultural lessee recognized by the
Commissioners at the time this suit was commenced.
His status as a lessee has not been questioned in any
way, and the case has been tried by all parties on the
theory that he has the full rights of an agricultural lessee
of the land.
In 1915, the Commissioners declared this quarter section valuable for mineral purposes, and adopted a motion
segregating the same, and withholding it from sale. And

PRICE v. MAGNOLIA PETROLEUM, CO. 421
415

Opinion of the Couit.

in 1919 they executed the oil and gas lease to the Magnolia Company that is now in controversy. The lease
contained a provision that the Company should be liable
to the surface lessee for all damage accruing to the surface interest. This liability the Company has never
disputed.
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma held, in substance,
that Price had no right either under the Enabling Act or
the Oklahoma statutes to require the State to sell the
land at any time; and that the action of the Commissioners in withholding the land from sale, segregating the
oil and gas. and leasing the same to the Magnolia Company, was in accordance with the provisions of the State
statutes, and not in violation of any right vested in Price
as an agricultural lessee-either under those statutes or
under the Enabling Act.
..The underlying federal question presented is based upon
the contention thdt under the provisions of the Enabling
Act, constituting a.trust upon which the public lands
were granted to the State, Price, as an agricultural lessee,
was vested with the preference right to purchase the land
as an entirety and to require the State to sell the entire
interest in the same. and that the Oklahoma statutes authorizing the segregationl of the oil and gas and the execution of a.separate lease thereto, as applied in this case,
impaired the value of the fee in the land and deprived
Price of'his preference right to puichase the land as an
entirety, in violation of the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
We cannot sustain this contention. By § $ of the Enabling Act it was provided that sections 33 should be apportioned and disposed of "as the legislature .
may prescribe "; and, further, that where any of the lands
granted to the State "are valuable for minerals" they
should not be sold before January 1, 1915, but might be
leased upon royalty, provided that. the mining lessee

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1924.
Opinion of the Court.

267 U. S.

should reimburse the agricultural lessee for damage done
by the mining operation. This authority to make mining
leases clearly applied not merely to the land then known
to be valuable for minerals but to such as might thereafter be found to be valuable for such purposes; and it
did not require the State to sell such lands at any time,
bit merely prohibited their sale before the date specified.
It impliedly authorized the making of mining and agricultural leases upon the same land. Furthermore § 10, by
its specific terms, did not require the State to sell sections
33 at any time, but merely provided that "if sold" they
might be appraised and sold at public sale, under such
rules and regulations as the State might prescribe, the
preference right to purchase at the highest bid being
given to the lessee "at the time of such sale."
We think it clear that these provisions of the Enabling
Act, read together, gave the State entire discretion as to
the time of selling these lands and the extent. to which
they should be sold. They did not require that all or any
part of them should be sold, but merely provided that
"if" the State sold them they must be sold in the manner prescribed, and the preferece right of purchase be
given the lessee in possession at the time.of. sale. The
State was not bound to sell them at any time, or at all,
but might retain them as long as it deemed proper, and
make meanwhile such leases as it desired not in conflict
with the provisions of the Act. There was no- provision
in the Act, and none is implied, that the agricultural lessee
might require the State to sell the land in its entirety
whenever, he desired to purchase the same; and nothing
that gave him any right to purchase the land in its entirety or that prevented the State from executing oil and
gas leases, as well as agricurtural leases, whenever it
deemed this the most advanthgeous niethod of realizing
the full value of the lands for the. public, pprpeses for
which they were granted to it. PlainlS t wv not in-

PEARSON v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

415

tended that the mere. making of an agricultural lease
should put the State at the mercy of the lessee, and require a sale of the land before its value had been ascertained or the available revenue derived from it. In short,
the preference right of purchase given the lessee by the
Act was merely the preference right of purchasing the
land in the condition in which it might be when and if
the State chose to sell it; and not a right to compel the
State to sell it, either in its entirety or otherwise, whenever he wished to buy.
It results that the Oklahoma statutes under which, as
held by the Supreme Court of the State, the Commissioners were authorized to withhold this quarter section
from sale and to execute the oil and gas .lease to the Magnolia Company, did not impair any right vested in Price
as an agricultural lessee by the provisions of the Enabling
Act, or deprive him of any right as such lessee in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
In so far as the other federal questions presented were
in issue under the pleadings or raised in the court below,
they are necessarily answered by what we have already
said, and need not be considered in detail. They show
no error in respect to any federal question. And the
judgment is
Affirmed.
PEARSON ET VIR v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 264.

Argued January 2,8, 1925.-Decided Marrh 2, 1925.

Where the Government erected- and used buldings on leased land
with the oral permission of the lessee, and subsequently removed
them, although the lessors contended that the right to do so had
expired by the terms of the lease, held; (a) That; in the absence
of proof that the Government had knowledge of the terms of
the lease or of the lessors' acquiescence in the user, no relation

