JANUARY TERM, 1842.

89

HUGH M. KEARY, PATRICx F.KEAitY" AND CHARLES A. LACQS'i
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.THE FARMERS AND MERCHANTS BANK
oF MEMPHIS, DEFENDANTS IN "RZOR.
A promissory note was drawn by Huoh M. Keary, ofid Patrick F. Keary, dated at
Pinkneyville, Mississippi, in favour of Charles A. Lacoste, payable twelve months
after date at the Planters Bank of Natchez. The note was endorsed by Charles
A. Lacoste to the -Farmers Bank of Memphis, Tennessee. The note having
been protested for nonpayment, the Farmers Bank of Memphis iistituted a suit
in the Circuit Court of Mississippi, against the arawers and endorser, alleging
that they were citizens'of Tennessee, and that the defendants were citizens of Mississippi. The action was against the drawers and endorser of the note; they
being joined in the suit" in pursuance of a statute of Mississippi.of 1837, which
required that in all actions on bilIA of exchange and proniissory notes, the plaintiff
shall be compelled to sue the drawers and endorsers, resident in the 'state in the
county wfiere the draweis live, in a joint action. -This statute had been adopted by
the Judge of the District 6f Mississippi, in the abselice of the Judge of the Supreme
Court assigned to that circuit, by a rule of Court; and in conformity with the rule
this suit was instituted. The defendants pleaded to "the jurisdiction of the Court,
on the ground that the drawers and drawee of the note were, when it was made,
citizens df Mississippi; and this plea'being overruled on demurrer, the Circuit Court,
on the failure of the drawers to plead over, and the failure of L~acoste to appear,
gave ajudgment for the plaintiff:
This action cannot be sustained in the Circuit Court, jointly against the drawers and
endorser of the note. The statute of Mississippi is not in force or effect in the
Courts ofthe United States; the sold authority to regulate the practice of the Courts
of the United States being in Congress.
So far as the acts of Congress have adopted the forms of process, and modes of pro.
ceeding and pleadings in the State Courts5, or have authorized the'Courts thereof to
adopt them, and they have actually adopted them, they are obligatory; and no
farther. But no Court of the United States is authorized to adopt by rule any pro.
visions of state laws which are'repugnant to, or incompatible with the positive
enactments of Congress, upon the jurisdiction, or practice, or proceedings of such
Courts.
The law of Mississippi is repugnant to the provisions of the act of Congress giving
jurisdiction to the Courts of the United States; and'organizing the Courts of the
United Sftes.
No suit against the drawers of the note could be maintained in the Circuit Court.
The eleventh section of the judiciary act of 1789, allows suits on promissory notes to
be brought in the Courts of the United States in cases only where the suit could
have been brought in such Court, if no arsignment had been made. The makers
and payee of the note having been citizens of Mississippi, the; Circuit Court had no
jurisdiction of a suit against the makers. Between Lacoste, the endorser, and the
plaintiffs below, it was different; for on his endorsement to citizens of another state,
H 2
12

90

'SUPREME COURT.
[Keary et al. v. The Farmers and Merchants Bank of Memphis.]

he was liable to a suit by them in the Circuit Court. But the joining of those who
could not be sued in the Circuit Court with the endorser, made the whole action
erroneous. The action was founded on distinct and independent contracts.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the Unitdd States for the District of Mississippi.
In the District Court for the southern district of Mississippi, an
action was instituted by the President, Directors, and Company
of the Farmers nd Merchants Bank of Memphis, citizens of Tennessee, against the plaintiffs in error, Hugh M. Keary, Patrick
F. Keary, and Charles A. Lacoste, citizens of the state of Mississippi, on a promissory note drawn by Hugh M. Keary, and Patrick F. Keary, in favour of, and endorsed to the bank by Charles
A. Lacoste. The action was afterwards transferred to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Mississippi.
By a statute of Mississippi, suits on promissory notes are prohibited to be brought in any other form than against all the
parties, drawers and endbrsers, in a joint action; and the action
must be prosecuted in the county in which the drawers reside.
By a rule of the Circuit Court, adopted by the district judge,
sitting in the Circuit Court, and, in the absence ofthe judge of the
Supreme Court assigned to sit in that Circuit, the practice of the
Courts of Mississippi,'in conformity with the statute, was adopted
as the practice of the Circuit Court.
Process was served on all the defendants; and two of the
defendants, -Hugh M. and Patrick F. Keary, entered a plea to the
jurisdiction of the Court; averring that the cause of action,
if any, accrued to the plaintiffs, by virtue of the promissory note,
made payable to the order of Charlds A. Lacoste, and by him,
Lacoste, endorsed to the plaintiffs: and that, at the time of
making the aforesaid note, and at the time of the commencement
of the plaintiffs' actioun, the said defendants, and Charles A. Lacoste, were citizens and residents of the said state of Mississippi,
The plaintiffs below, the defendants in error, demurred to this
plea, and the Circuit Court sustained the demurrer. - The defendaut, Lacoste, having made default, hnd no further plea having
been entered by the other defendants, the Court rendered a joint
judgment against all the defendants.
The defendants prosecuted this writ Qf error.

JANUARY TERM, I42.

91

[Keary et a! -v.The Farmers and Merchants Bank of Memphis.].

The case was aigued by Mr.'Henderson; for the plaintiffs in
error; and by Mr. Jones, for the defendants.
Mr. Heuderson contended.'
1. That the declaration, in joining the defehfdants,'as drawers
and endorser of the, note sued on, and showing the separate
contracts and undertakings 'of the drawers and endorser, nevertheless alleges and claims a joint damage only; thus setting
forth a defective cause of action, not authorizing the judgment
rendered.
2. The judgment of the Court is rendered jointly. against-the
defendants on separate contracts and assumpsits, in violation of
the contracts declared on.
3. There is error in this, that the plea 0 the jhirisdiction of the
Court should'have been sustained; and the judgment rendered is
void for want of jurisdiction.
The obvious error in the judgment of the Circuit Court was the
want of jurisdiction over the parties.. The suit, pursuing the form
of action prescribed by the statute of Mississippi, is against the
drawers and endorser of the note, and there is a gen.eral judgment against all. Thus, while no right under the judiciary act
of 1789 exists to sue in the Circuit Court, the parties, whose only
obligations were to the endorser of the ndte, both citizens of Mississippi, the Court allow proceedings against them, because, by the
Mississippi statute, the suit must be against all the parties; and to
he plaintiffs below, as citizens of Tennessee, the endorser only
was answerable in the Circuit Court of the United States.
The rule of Court which adopted the pradtice under the Mississippi statute, was not authorized by' the judiciary act. The
Courts of the United States have no authority to make such rules;
the power is only in Congress. Cited, 2 Laws of the United States,
sect. 11, p. 61. Jurisdiceion cannot be given by rules of-Court..
There is also a def6ctive cause of action in law, as set forth in
the declaration, which can authorize no judgment thereon. The
action is joint, the breach and damages complained of as joint,
'and a joint judgment is thereupon rendered. Whereas, the
causes of action are the separate liability of drawers and endorser,
being coitiracts and assumpsits wholly distinct and independent,
the respective obligations of which are violated by conjoining

SUPREME COURT.
[Keary et aL v. The Farmers and.Merchants Bank of Memphis.]

them, arid adjudging a-joint responsibility, different and adverse
to their seveial undertakings.
Mr. Jones, foi the d fendants in error, maintained that the plea
was bad, and had been properly overruled by the Circuit Court.
2. That the endorsement of the note was not like endorsements
in general, a new note between the -endorser and the endorsees
-alone,'l ut a new note, in which the drawers and endorser took
the relation of joifit promissors to the endorsees.
That, whatever be the precise mode or form in which the
statute may be held to have operated the effect of joint liability,
it has, in operating that specifie effect, necessarily given to the
contract of endorsement the new and enlarged effect of creating
a joint obligation or promise, direct and immediate, from the
drawers and endorser to the endorsees.
That this aciion, therefore, is not on -a mere assignment of the
original chose in action; but substantially on an original undertaking, imposed by the subsequent contract of endorsement alone.
That, as the jurisdiction, of the Court would have -been unquestionable, had a suit on the endorsement, between endorsees
and endorser, been allowed, so it cannot, in any reason, be taken
away by any enlargement or modification of the contract of endorsement itself, created by the local law of the state.
This is the only mode in which the action would be legal in
the state of Mississippi. If the point now made by the counsel
for the plaintiffs in error is sustained, the jurisdiction: of the
Courts of the United States in\commercial cases, 'which were the
object of the judiciary act of 1789, will be defeated.
There is a plastic power in Courts, over commercial instruments, under anomalous circumstances of irregularity in their
frame, so as to mould them to their primary ends and purposes.
Thus, an endorser is held liable as the drawer of a new bill or
note, when upon no other hypothesis could any action be framed
on -the instrument. The endorsement, without a prior endorsement of the payee, or special endorser, of a bill payable to a fictitious payee, has been held binding. A bill, or prior endorsement
forged, or made by a feme covert, or an infant, has been held to
bind a subsequent endorser, in the hands of 4 bong fide holder.
To these, may be added many special. instances, still more ano-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

93

[Keary et aL.v. The Farmers and Merchants Bank of Memphis.]

malous.

Chitty on Bill, 109,265,268, 626, 627, 584, 588, 589;
Baylis on Bills of Exchange, 85; Kyd on Bills, 150; Buller
v. Cripps, 6 Wend. 30; Lambert v. Pacl, 1 Salk. 127; Hill v.
Lewis, 1 Salk. ,132; "1Strange, 441 ; Heylin v. Adamson, 2 Burr.
674; 3 East, 482; Gibson v. Mivet, 1 H. Black. 587; 1 Strange,
478; Critchlew v.Berry, 2 Cowp. 182; 2 Bing. N. C. Rep. 439;
4 Mass. 258; 7 Pickering, 291; 16 Pickering, 533; Bush 1.
Reeves, 3 Johns. 43g.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the district of Mississippi. The original action is assumpsit upon a promissory
note, signed, by Hugh M. Keary and Patrick F. Keary, dated at
Pinkneyville, in the state of. Mississippi, on the 18th of February, 1838, whereby (as thp declaration alleges) the makers promised twelve months after date, to pay to Charles A. Lacoste, by
the name and description of Briggs, Lacoste, and Company, or
order,four thousand eight hundred and sixty-three dollars and fiftyfive cents, payable and negotiable at the Planters Bank in Natchez,
and which note was endorsed by Lacoste, by the name and description of Briggs, Lacoste, and Company, to the plaintiffs, The
Farmers and Merchants Bank of Memphis. The declaration
avers that the plaintiffs are citizens of Tennessee, and that the
defendants are citizens of Mississippi; the makers and the endorser
being joined in the suit. This joinder was in pursuance of a
statute of Mississippi, of the 13th of May, 1837, (Laws of Mississippi, edit. 1838, p. 717,) whereby it is enacted, "That in all
actions founded upon bills of exchange and promissory notes, the
plaintiffs shall be compelled to sue the drawers and endorsers,
livingand resident in this state, in a joint action; and such suit,
shall be commenced in the county where the drawer or drawers
reside, if living in the state; and if the drawer or drawers be dead,
or rbside out of the state, the suit shall be brought in the county
where the first endorser resides."
It seems that this statute had
been adopted by the district jfudge of the district of Mississippi,
in the absence of the judge of this Court, assigned io that circuit
by a rule of Court; and upon the footing of that rule the present
suit was brought.
The makers of the note pleaded a plea to the jurisdiction of the

94

SUPREME COURT.
[Keaxy et al.
v. The Farmers and Merchants Bank of Memphis.]

Court, averring that the cause of action accrued to the plaintiffs
by virtue of the promissory note made payable to and endorsed
by Lacoste to them; and that they, the makers, at the time of
making the note and at the time of the commencement of the
action, were citizens and residents of the state of Mississippi.
To this plea there was a demurrer, which upon the hearing was
olerrtled, and the makers assigned to plead over; which, having
failed to do; and Lacoste, the ther defendant, having failed to
appear, judgment was finally rendered against all the defendants;
and from thaeC judgment the present writ of error has been
brought to this Court.
' The first and main question presented to us for consideration
is, whether the present.action is sustainable in the Circuit Court
jointly against the makers and the endorser, under the circfmnstances disclosed in the record. In our judgment it is not. The
statute of Mississippi, proprio vigore, is of no force or effect in
the Courts of the United States, it not being competent for any
state legislature to regulate the forms of suits or modes of proceeding or pleadings-in the Cburts of the United States; but the
sole- authority for this purpose belongs to the Congress of the
United States. So far as the acts of Congress have adopted the
forms of process, and modes ofproceeding and pleadings in the
State Courts,or have authorized the Courts thereof to adopt them,
and they have been actually adopted, they are obligatory; but no
farther. But no Court of the United States is authorized to adopt
by rule any provisions of state laws which are repugnant to or
incompatible with the: positive enactments of Congress upon the
subject of the jurisdiction, or practice, or proceedings in such
Court.
It is obvious that the latter clause of -the statute of Mississippi
already cited, which provides for the bringing of suits upon bills
of exchange or promissory notes, in the county where the drawers
live, or, under certain circumstances, in the county where the first
endorser lives, is utterly incompatible with and repugnant to the
known organization zifd jrisdiction of the Courts of the United
States;' Suits in these Courts are, by the judiciary act of 1789,
ch. 20, sect. 11, to be brought in the district whereof the defendant (being a citizen of the United States) is an inhabitant, or in
which he shall be found at the time of serving the writ; and the

JANUAiY TERM,, 1842.

95

r. The Farmers and Merchants Bank of Memphis.]
[Keary et a].

suits are cognisable in no other places than those assigned. for the
regular holding of the terms of the*Courts. There is no pretence
therefore to say, that the Circuit Court could. by any rule adopt
the state law upon this subject.
As little real ground is 'there for maintaining, that the Court
had authority to adopt the other part of the state statute requiring
that the drawers and endorsers of bills of exchange and promissory
notes should Pe compellable to be joined by the plaintiff in a
joint action. The judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20, in the eleventh
section, gives jurisdiction to the Circuit Court of suits between
a citizen of the state where the suit is brought, and a citizen of
another state; and, among other exceptions, not applicable to the
lesent suit, it excepts "an r suit to recover the contents of any
promissory note or other chose in action in favour of an assignee,
unless the suit might have been prosecuted in such Court to
recover the contents, if no assignment had been made; except in
cases of foreign bills of exchange." It is plain upon the language
of this clause, that as the makers and the payee of the promissory.
note in this case, were all citizens of Mississippi, nosuit could
have been maintained between them, (theoriginal parties,) in the
Circuit Court.* But the same objection does not apply to a suit
on the same note- by the plaintiffs zs endorsees against'their immediate endorser, Lacoste; for theie is an immediate privity of
contract between them, and tliey are citizens of different states.
This was long since settled by the decision of this Court in Young
v. Bryan, 6 Wheat. 146. Sb-that it is manifest, that as between
the makers and the plaintiffs the present suit is not maintainable;
and as between the endorser and the plaintiffs as endorsees, it is
maintainable by the laws of the United States. The result therefore of giving effect to the statute of Mississippi, and the -rule of
' the Court adopting the same, would be, either that the Circuit
Court, in contravention of the express terms of the judiciary act
of 1789, ch. 20, would be obliged to maintain jurisdiction over
the makers, which is .prohibited by that act, or else would be compellable to surrender jurisdiction over the endorser, which the
same act confers on.it. 'Certainly such a doctrine cannot be asserted to be well founded in law. If it were admitted, it would
enable the state legislatures, by merely changing the modes of
remedial justice, or requiring different parties under different and

96

SUPREME COURT.
[Keary et al. v. The Farmers and Merchants Bank of Memphis]

distinct contracts to be joined in one and 'the same suit, to oust
the Courts of the United States of all the legitimate jurisdiction
conferred upon them by the Constitution and the acts of Congress.
For these reasons we are of opinion that the present suit, so far
as it respects the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over the makers
of this note, is ill founded; and that the plea of the makers to the
jurisdiction is good in point of law; and that the suit being a
joint action, found upon distinct and independent contracts, is
incapable of being sustained in the Courts of the United States
against any of the defendants. The consequence is, that the
judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded to the
Circuit Court, with directions that the plaintiffs take nothing by
their writ.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this Court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, reversed and annulled; and that this cause b%,
and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to enter judgment for the defendants, in conformity to
the opinion of this Court.

