JANUARY TERM, 1842.

CHARLES

F.

HOZEY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM BUCHANAN, DEFENDANT

IN ERROR.

An action was brought in the Circuit Court of Louisiana against the sheriff of New
Orleans, tu recover the value of a steamboat sold b the sheriff, under an execution

as the property of Wilkinson, one of the defendants in the execution, Buchanan, the
plaintiff, alleging that the steamboat was his property. The defendant in his answer
'alleged that the sale of the steamboat by Wilkinson to Buchanan was fraudulent; and'
that t was made to defraud the creditors of Wilkihson. Before the jury was sworn, the
Court, on the motion of the counsel for the plrfntiff, struck out all that part of the

defendant's answer whic& alleged fraud in the sale from Wilkinson to Buchanan.
Held, that there was error in this order of Lhe Court.
'By the act of Congress, relating to the enrolment of ships and vessels, it is not required
to make a bill of sale of a vessel valid, -that it shall be enrolled in the custom-house.
The enrolment seems not to be necessary by the law to make the title valid, but to entit16 the vessel te the character and privileges of aa American vessel.
A bill of sale of a vessel, accompanied by possession, does not cdostitute a good title in
law. Such aninstrument, so accompanied, is'primd facie evidence of right; but in
order to constitute a full right tinder the bill of sale, the transfer should be bond fide,
and for a valuable consideration.

IN error to the District Court of the United States for the
eastern district of Louisiana.
This was a writ of error. brought by-C. F. Hozey to reverse a
judgment obtained against him by William Buchanan in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district of
Louisiana.
The 'original suit was brought by Buchanan by petition filed
in Court, in which he alleged, in substance, that he was the sole
owner of the steamboat called the Nashville, of the value of
twelve thousand dollars, when she was illegally and wrongfully
seized and sold as the property of William Wilkinson, by the defendant, Hozey, the sheriff-of the parish and city of New Orleans.
He alleged that he had previously purchased all Wilkinson's interest in the boat, which was small, namely, one-fifth part; that he
had thereby become the sole owner, and that Wilkinson had no
interest in the bcat at the time of her seizure; and that he so
notified said sheriff, who nevertheless proceedeal to advertise and

SUPREME COURT.
[HOzey v. Buchanan.)

sell her at a great sacrifice, and to the damage of the petitioner
twelve thousand dollars, for which he prays judgment.
In his answer and defence to this petition, Hozey denied that
Buchanan ever had any interest in said boat. He alleged that
she belonged to William Wilkinson, and that he, in his official
capacity as sheriff, having in his hands an execution of fieri
facias from one of the Courts of Louisi..na, in favour of S. V.
Oakey and Company v. C. MI'Cantle and Company, or Cullen
M'Cantle and William Wilkinson, did seize and sell said boat in
virtue of said execution, as he Was bound to do, she being then
at New Orleans, and belonging to said Wilkinson, one of the defendants in said execution. He alleged that Buchanan was in
New Orleans when the boat was advertised and sold, and took
none of those steps allowed by law to establish his alleged right
to her, or to prevent the sale; and insisted that he had, therefore,
lost all claim on the respondent. He further alleged that if any
sale had been made by Wilkinson to Buchanan, that it was not
made with the formalities of law, but was fraudulent, and made
with intent to hinder and defraud the creditors of Wilkinson.
Both the petitioner and respondent united in the prayer that
the case may be tried by a jury. It was so tried; and a verdict
was rendered in favour of the plaintiff for eight thousand andfive
hundred dollars; and the Court thereupon gave judgment for the
amount of the verdict and costs of suit.
Before the cause came on for trial, the counsel for the plaintiff
moved the Court to strike out all that part of the defendant's
answer which alleged fraud in the sale of the steamboat by Wilkinson to the plaintiff. This was opposed by the counsel for the
defendant. It was ordered by the Court that the same should
be stricken out, to which order the defendant excepted.
On the trial of the cause, the counsel for the defendant moved
the Court to instruct the jury that, by the act of Congress, bills
of sale of ships and vessels, to be valid, must be enrolled in the
custom-house; and as the bill of sale on which the plaintiff
relies, is admitted not to have been enrolled, the same cannot be
considered as legal title: but the Court refused so to charge the
jury, saying to the jury, that a bill of sale, accompanied by
possession, constituted a good title in law.
The counsel for the defendant excepted to this opinion.,

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

217

[Hozey v. Buchanan.]

Judgment having been rendered on the verdict, the defendant
prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was submitted to the Court, on printed arguments,
by Mr. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error; and by Mr. Crittenden,
for the defendant.
Mr. Coxe,for the plaintiff, contended that the ruling of the
Court, as stated in the exceptions, was erroneous; and the defendant was thereby precluded from making a valid defence to
the action.
Mr. Crittenden urged for the defendant in error, that neither
of the exceptions presented any sufficient ground forfthe reversal
of the judgment, which had been rendered in favour of the plaintiff in the Circuit Court.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error from the Circuit Court for the eastern
district of Louisiana.
In the Circuit Court, Buchanan commenced an action against
'Hozey, for the recovery of the damages he had sustained by the
seizure and sale of his steamboat Nashville, by Hozey, as sheriff
of the parish of Orleans. The boat was alleged to be of the
value of twelve thousand dollars.
Hozey, in his answer, denied that Buchanan ever had any mterest in the -steamboat. That having received, as sheriff, a writ
of fieri facias issued on a judgment in favour of Oakey and Company v. Cullen M'Cantle and Wilkinson, the last of whom owned
the said steamboat; and it being within the parish of Orleans;
he levied upon and sold it at public auction, in conformity to
1
Nw as he was bound to do. That Buchanan knew of the levy
and sale, being then in New Orleans, but took no steps to arrest
the proceeding, whereby he has lost his right if he ever had any.
And he alleges, that if any sale of the boat was made 11y Wilkinson to Buchanan, it was not done with the foimalities required
made, was fraudulent and void,
by law. And that the sale, if"
as it was made to defraud the creditors of Wilkinson.
The cause was submitted to a jury, and they found for the
28
VOL. XVI.-T

SUPREME COURT.
[Hozey v.lBuchanam]
ilaintiff the sum of eight thousand five hundred dollars. On this
verdict a judgment was rendered.
Before the jury Were sworn, the counsel for Buchanan moved
the Court to sCrike motit all that part of the defendant's answer
which alleged fraud in the sale from Wilkinson to the plaintiff,
which the Court directed to be done. And the counsel for the
defendant moved the Court to instruct the jury, that by the act
of Congress, bills of sale.of ships and vessels to be valid must be
enrolled in the custom-house: but the Court refused so to instruct
the jury; and charged them that a bill of sale accompanied by
possession constituted a good title in law. Exceptions were
taken to these rulings of the Court.
Evidence was given before the jury, written and parol, conducing to show the prior ownership of the boat, for what s'ie had
been sold., her employment, the sale to Buchanan by Wilkinson,
and the circumstances connected with it.
The plaintiff in error insists on a reversal of th3 judgment on
two grounds.
1. The striking out of the answer the allegation of fraud.
2. The invalidity of the bill of sale, it not having been enrolled
as required by the act of Congress.
The allegation of fraud in the answer, in the sale from Wilkinson to the plaintiff below, was a most material allegation. If
established, it constituted a good defence to the action. On what
ground this was stricken from the answer, by the Court, is not
perceived and cannot well be imagined. No authority has been
shown in the Louisiana law for such a proceeding; and it is believed that none exists. It-would be as novel as it would seem
to be unjust, to strike out of the answer, on the motion of the
plaintiff, that which constituteg a good defence, and on which the
defendant may chiefly rely. And this was done too before the
cause was subrmaitted to the jury, and consequently before the
evidence was heard.
If the aniswer were defective in setting up incompatible grounds
of defence, and on this account was liable to objection as a plea
that is multifarious; btill it would not seem to be the right of the
plaintiff to suggest how the answer shall be amended. The ajswer"in this case', however, does not seem to have been liable to
this exception. By the 419th article, ih the Code of Practice, it

JANUARY TERI, 1842.

219

[Hozey v. Buchanan.]

is said, "After issue joined, the plaintiff may, with leave of the
Court, amend his petition; provided he does not alter the sub-.
stance of his demand, by making it different from the one originally brought." An, in article 420, "The defendant may also
amend his answer, subject to the same rules, and add to it new
exceptions; provided that they be not of- the, dilatory kind.
After answering on the merits, dilatory'exception' shall not be
raised by. way of amendment, unless with the consent of the
plaintiff." By article 421, "When one\bf the parties has amended,
either his petition or his answer, the other party has the right of
answering the amendment; but it must be done inmunediately,
unless the amendment be of such nature as to induce the Court
to grant further time for answering the same."
The defendant may set up facts different froni'those alleged by
the plaintiff; and these are considered as denied by the plaintiff
without replication or rejoinder. Articles 328, 329.
By the 2597th article of the Louisiana Code, it is-declared that,
"Whatever may be the vices of the thing sold on execution, they
do not give rise to the redhibitory action; but the rule may be
set aside in the case of fraud, and declared null in cases of hullity."
And in the following article,.that "The salo on execution transfers the property of the thing to the purchaser as completely as
if the owner had sold it himself; but it transfers only the rights
of the debtor, such as -they are." To this effect is the case of
Thompson v. Rogers, 4 Louis. Rep. 9; 3 *Mar.'39; 10 Mar. 222.
Independently of the above authorities, which are full and
explicit, no doubt could exist as to the right of the defendant to
set out in his ansWer his grounds of jiefence, and impeach the
sale of the steamboat from Wilkinson to the plaintiff below for
fraud, or on any other ground. But the allegation-of fraud having been stricken from the answer, by the order of the Court, the
defendant, of course, could not introduce evidenc- to prove it.
This was an error of the Court which we feel ourselves called
upon to correct.
The Circuit Court did not err in refusing the first part of the
second instruction, "that by the act of 'Congress, bills of sale of
ships and vessels, to be valid, must be enrolled in the customhouse; and as the bill of sale, on which the plaintiff relies, is
admitted not to have been enrolled, the same cannot be considered

220

SUPREME COURT.
[Hozey v. Buchanan.]

as a legal title." The enrolment seems not to be necessary by
the acts of Congress to make the title valid, but to entitle the
vessel to the character and privileges of an American vessel.
7 Johns. Rep. 308.
But the charge that "1a bill of sale, accompanied by possession,
constituted a good title in law," is liable to objection. That
such an instrument connected with the possession is prime facie
evidence of right, may be admitted. But in view of the evidence
in the case, there should have been the qualification that the
transfer was bong fide, and for a valuable consideration. Upon
the wh61e, the judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the
cause is remanded to that Court for further proceedings.

