234

THE

SUPREME COURT.

MAYOR AWD ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF MO1BILE,'PLAI-

TIFFS IN ERROR, V. MIGUEL

D. ESLAVA,

DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

lot of ground, part of tile ground on which Fort Charlotte had been erected, in the
city of Mobile, before the territory was acquired from Spain by the United States, had
been sold under an act of Congress of 1818. The lot had been laid out according
to a plan-by which a street cilled Water street was run along the margin of Mobile
river; and the street was extended over part of the site of Fort Charlotte. The lot
was situated west of Water street, but when sold by the United States, its eastern
line was below high-water mark of the river. The purcliaser of this lot improved
the lot lying in. front of it, east of Water street, having filled it up, at a heavy expense, thus reclaiming, it from the river, which at high-water had covered it. When
the lot east of Water street was purchased, the purchaser could not pass Jong the
street, except with the aid of logs, and other timber.. Water street was, in 1823,
filled i1p, kt the cost of the city of Mobile. Taxes and assessments for making sidewalks 1long Water street, were paid to the city of Mobile by the owner of the lot. The
city of Mobile had brought suit for taxes, and had advertised the lot for sale, as the property of a tenant urider the purchaser of the lot. On the 26th of May, 1824, Congress passed ah act, which declared, in the first section, that all the right and claim
of the United States to the Iota known as the Hospital and Bakehouse lots, containing about threo-fourths of an acre of land in the state of Alabama; and all the right
and-claim of the United States to all the lots not sold or confirmed to individuals,
either by this or any fon~er act, and to -which no equitable title exists, in favour of
any individual under this or any other act, between high-water mark and the channel
of the river, and betwedn Church street and North Boundary street, in front of the
city of Mobile, ihould be vested in the corporation of the city of Mobile for the use
of the city forever. The second. section provides, '!that all the right and claim of
the United States to so many of the lots east of water street, and between Church
--street and North Boundary street, now known as water lots, as are situated between
the chinnel of the river and -the front of the lots, known under the Spanish government as water lofs, in the said city of Mobile, whereon improvements have been
made, be'and the same are hereby vested in the several proprietors and occupants of
each of the lots heretofore fronting on the river Mobile," &c. The city of Mobile
claimed from the defendant in error the lot held by bim, under the purchase from the
United States, and the improvements before described; asserting that the same was
"vested ihr the city by the first section of the act of 1824. Held, that under the provisions of the second-section of the' act, the defendant in error cl~iming under the
purchase made under the act of 1818, and under the.act of 1824, was entitled to
the'lot.
The right, relinquished by the United States was to the water. .ota, "'lying east of
Water street, nd between Church street and North Boundary street, tow'kown as
water lots, as.are situated between the channel of the river and the front of the lots,
known under the Spanish government as water lots, in the said pity of Mobile,
whered~improvementl have been made." . The.improvemenis refer to the water and

JANUARY TERM, 1842,

235

[The City of Mobile v. Eslava.]
not to the front lots. A reasonable construction of the act, requires th( improve.
'nents to have been made or owned by the proprietor ef the front lot, at the time of,

the passage of the ect. Being proprietor of the Ifront lot,-and having improved the
water lot opposite and east of Water street, constituto the conditions on which the
right under the-statute vests.
IN error to the Supreme Court of Alabama.
The plaintiffs in error instituted an action, called in the language of the laws of Alabama "a plea of trespass to try titles,"
against Miguel D. Eslava, the purpose of which was the r covery
of possession and damages for the detention of a certain lot of
ground, in the city 6f Mobile, bounded north by ground in the
possession of Thomas Terry, east by Commerce street, south by
Chlrch street,, west by Water street; and extending from the
east side of Commerce street to the channel of the.river.
The cuse was tried in the Circuit. Court, in November, 1837,
and a judgment on the verdict of a jury was rendered for the
defendant. The plaintiffs took a bill of exceptipns to the pharge
of the Court, and afterwards prosecuted a writ of error- to the
Supreme Cgurt of Alabama; where the juidgment of the Circuit
Court was -affirmed.. The plaintiffs,took out this writ of error to
the Supreme Court of the United States.
The bill of exceptions stated that the lot in controversy. was
held by the defendant, uder the following circumstances:: .By
an: act of Congress, passed in 1818, the lot of ground vhereou
Fort Charlotte, in'the town of Mobile, had: been situated, was
directed to be surveyed and laid off into lots, with suitable streets
ancl avenues, conforming as near as may be to the 6riginal pl'an
of the town ; and the lots thus laid off, were directed t6 be - sold
under the authoriti of the President of the United States,, The
lots were surveyed and laid off, a~d were afterwards iold. By an

oiginal plan of the town, a street known as Watzt sti.et was run
on. the margin of Mobile river, continuous with and frbnting the.
s d. This street was run on part of the site. of Fcr-t Chrlotte,
where the lots are .laid out-another street known as-, Church.
streeq was laid off on'the site of the fort. The lots Were sold by

the United'States, agreeably to the plan; no lots were laid. off,
and .rnone were sold by the United States, east of Water'street.
Under the Spanish g6vernment, and while theUnited States'held
possession of Fori Charlotte, ther.'was an open unobstructed

236

SUPREME COURT.
[The City of Mo.bile v.Eslava.]

space from high-water mark on the river to the -channel, except
a wharf used for the commerce of the fort.
The'lot in dispute is situated -on the east side of Water street,
directly opposit6 to the lot sold by the United States part of the
site of the fort, within the open space between high and lowwater mark, and part of it within the boundary of the picket
fence that formerly surrounded the Fort. After the purchase of
the lots laid out on the site of Fort Charlotte, by "The Lot Company," a survey was made by the company, and a larger quantity of ground was included in the survey. The defendant holds
under a purchase from the lot company. There is a regular
oceanic tide in the river Mobile, the ebb and flow of which is about
eighteen inches. In 1822, Water street and the, lot in dispute
were between high and low watermark. The city of Mobile, at
the cost of the city, filled up Water street to some extent, and
confined the water at high-tide to the eastern edge of Water
street. No evidence was offered to prove the lots in front of Fort
Charlotte were known under the, Spanish government as water
lots, on which improvements had been made.
The plaintiffs, in the Circuit Court, claimed title under the- act
of Congress of 20th May, 1824, entitled cAn act granting certain
lots of ground- to the corporation of the city of Mobile, and to
Considerable sums of
•certain individuals in the said city."
money were expended by the purchasers of the lots on the site
of Fort Charlotte, to fill up the lots between Water street and
low-water mark; and the passage along Water street could only
be made, until it was filled up by the cQrporation of Mobile, by
logs laid along the street. The lot in dispute had been filled up
at a heavy expense, and the tenant of the defendant in error had,
according to an entry on the books of the corporation in 1823,
filled up a stagnant pond at the end of Church street, which had
been occasioned by the improvement on the lot. One witness
testified, that the stakes in front of the lot, when sold by the
United States, ran to the east of Water street, so that a portion of
the property, when purchased from the United States, would have
been within the staked lines .of the lot. Evidence was offered by
the defendant to prove that in 1828, and for every year until 1836,
taxes on the lot had been paid to the corporation of Mobile;
that in 1833, the person in possession of the lot had been required

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

237

[The City of Mobile v. Eslava.]

by the mayor of Mobile, to fill up two places upon it with earth
or shells; and about the same time, the corporation had advertised the lot for sale, for unpaid taxes, which were afterwards paid.
The act of 20th May, 1824, by its first section, declares, "1that
the'right and claim of the United States to the lots known as the
Hospital and Bakehouse lots, containing about three-fourths of an
acre of land in the state of Alabama; and also all the right.and
claim of the United States, to all the lots not sold or confirmed to
individuals, either by this or any former" act, and to which no
equitable title exists in favour of any individual, either by this or
any former act, between high-water mark and .the channel of the
river, and between Church street, and North Boundary street, in
front of the said city, be, and the same are hereby vested in the
mayor and aldermen of the said city," &c.
The second section of the act declares, "that all the right and
claim of the United States to so many of the lots east of Water
street, and between Church street. and North Boundary street,
and now known as water lots, as are situated between the channel
of the river, and: the front of the lots known under the Spanish
government as water lots, in the said city of Mobile, whereon improvements have been made, be and the same are hereby vested
in the several propriet6rs or occupants of each of the lots heretofore fronting on the river Mobile, except in cases where such
proprietor or occupant has alienated his right to-any such lot now
designated as a water lot," &c.
Upon which the judge charged the j ury, that if the lots specified
in the patents 10, 11, 12, &c., were-proved to have been bounded
by high-water mark at the time purchased, 'then they came
within the terms of "lots known under the Spanish government
as water ldts, as -usedin the act of Congress;", and if proved that
the lof claimed was east of Water street, andin front of the lots
covered by the patents, and that had been imprpved before the
passage of the act; it was vested in the proprietors and occ upants
of the lots held under the patents: and this although Water street
did intervene between the lots claimed and those held under the
patents.
The case was argued by Mr. Test, for the plaintiffs in error,
and by Mr. Johnson,. and Mr. Sergeant, for the defendant.

238

SUPREME COURT.
[The City of Mobile v. Eslava.]

The. decision of the Court was given upon the .construction of
the- act of Congress of 1824, entirely. The arguments of the
counsel: on all the other questions which were discussed, are
therefore necessarily omitted.
Mr. Test said the act-of Congress of 1824, is the foundation
of the title set up by the plaintiffs; and if they are not entitled to
hold or recover under that act, they have no title whatever.
9I ne act was a pure commercial regulation, having in view the
promotion of the commercial branch of the hational industry. It,
is a part of the history of the country, that Mobile wa once one
of the most sicklyplaces on the" globe. It was surrounded by
islands and marshes, and the banks of the river were flat and
swampy; and from this cause it was freqnently visited by the
most fatal diseases. Thus it remained for yearh after the country
was acquired by the United. States.
One of the regulations of the Spaish government, was that the
lands granted to individuals never Zxtende& into the river, or even
to it; but the grantee: was bound to leave a bank or ridgeway
along the river margin. Wharfs, or landing-places were always
established by public authority; and the ground, part of which is
now in dispute, had remained unimproved until the act of 1824
was passed.
The groving populatioi of the city.of Mobile, and the fact that
it waS the outlet of the great and increasing productions of the
state of Alabama, made it an object of particular interest with the
government of tb- United Stat~s. As no grants of land had been
made beyond high-water mark, and the.improvement of the low.
grounds between high and low water mark was esseitial to the
health of the city, Congress passed the act of i824, giving to the
owners of. lots running to the rivet, the ground in front of the
same, on which improvements had been made. The lots between
Church street, and North Boundary stzeet, intended as the most
nortnern" street of the ciiy, were those comprehended in- the provisions of the act of Congress.
It -was clearly intended by the act of Congress to give to theF
city,for thq purpose ofimproving and erectingwharves and landing
places, alf the land-on the shores of the river, from Church street
to the northern boundary of the city; and not to confine the city

JANUARY TERM, "1842.

239F

[The City of Mobile v. Eslava.J

to the width or location of Water street, norto that part of the city
where streets had been laid out; for that would not have-pro.
vided a remedy commensurate with -the evil." To the city was
given by the act all the land, below high-water mark on which
no improvements had been made, so. that not a remnant should
be left from one end of the city to the other.
The lot in controversy in -this case lies, without doubi, inthe
part 'ofthe city to whicl\ by any construction of the terms of the
statutes describing the property granted, applies. In other cases,
it may be,-necessary to ascertain which was meant by North
Boundary street; but it is not in'this.
Thus the title of the plaintiffs in error is clearly made ou 4, unless the defendant has a better title, under the second ection of
the act of 1824,.or by' the act of 1818, under which the lots
laid out on the site of Fort Charlotte were sold. One of the
counsel for the defendant has maintained, that, the defendant
wag the riparian owner of this lot. Tis question need not now
be discussed, as the title under the act of 1824 is alone under
examination.
The defendants counsel also say that having purchased the lot
under the act of 1818, which extended to the river; and having
improved the lot to low-water.mark, the provisions of the second
section of the act apply to and give title to the property. This
is denied.- It was expressly 'proved, that the lots orr which'Fort
Charlotte stood were not known as water lots under the Spanish
government, on which improvements had been .made. Fort
Charlotte, and the ground appurtenant to it, under the Spanish
government, were bounded by the margin of the river.
The object of Congress was to give to the owners- of lots in
the old town of Mobile, who had improved them, the gr ,nd to
lQw-water mark for river purposes, and to promote ihe health of
the city; but it-was not intended fo -extend the grant beyond
thdse lots held under Spanish concessions, else why confine the
grint to the owners of lbts known under the Spanish government
as water lots, whereon improviements had been made? If the
lots laid out on the site of Fort Charlotte, and which had been
sold, Were intendid to be included in the donation; why did hot
Congress so declare in apt words to express that purpose?
Mr. Test also contended, that by a reference to d map ex-

240

SUPREME COURT.
[The City of Mobile v. Eslava.]

hibited, some of ihe lots laid out on Fort Charlotte were clearly
shown to be out of the lines of the ground included in the act of
1824; and he said none of the Fort Charlotte lots could be considered within the letter or spirit of the act, as all had. the same
claims. To apply them to this lot,and not to all, was inconsistent.
Mr. Sergeant, for the defendant. upon the title claimed, under
the act of Congress of 1824, contended, that the act 1824 granted
the ldt in controversy to those under whom defendant claims;, and
not to the city of Alabama.
The plaintiffs claimed, he remarked, entirely and exclusively,
under the act of 1824, which operated as a gift, without any
colsideration whatever. They were not purchasers. Neither
were they to take for the public, but for themselves, f6r their
own use and benefit. It was incumbent upon them, therefore,
to make out their case, clearly, and without reasonable ddubt.
The defendants, on the contrary, had an equity before the act,
from possession with claim of right, improvement, and, in fact,
creation of thie property by redeeming it from the water.
In construing this act, the whole of it must be taken together:
and, further, any construction should be very cautiotsly admitted
that would overturn a received construction long acted upon.
The act has a twofold operation: it operates by way of grant,
and-it operates by way of confirmation, or release. For the city
of Mobile, it operates by way of grant only, and that grant is
entirely gratuitous, being without consideration. First, it gives,
specifically, 'he Bakehouse lot -and the Hospital lot, both of them
defined public property of Spain, and passed as such to the
United States by treaty. They passed from the United States to
the cit,. of Mobile, by their appropriate boundaries, as the Fort
Charlotte lot passed to the purchasers; with only this difference,
that the latter paid for what they got.
-Asto all the rest, the grant to the city of Mobile is of.what is
not otherwise granted, confirmed, released, or excepted. The
language of the first section is "not sold or confirmed to individuals either by this or any other act;" and "to which no equitable title exists in favour of an-y individual," &c. And then
there is the general proviso to the whole. act, "That nothing in
this act contained shall be construed to affect the claim or claims,

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

241

[The City of Mobile v. Eslava.]

if any such there be, of duy inaividual or individuals, or of any
body politic or corporate." The city of Mobile, though fist in
the order of the act, is last in the order of grant. All the other
grants, confirmations, releases, exceptions, and provisoes, are to
be satisfied; and then the city is to take what "right and claim"
there may be of the United States, not asserting that there will
be any.
Now, in the first place, the defendant had a right by the sale
under the act of 1818, as has already been stated.; which is confirmed, if necessary, by the act of 1824.
In the next place, he had an "equitable title," by possession,
improvement, expenditure of money and labour in reddeming
the land, contributions in takes, and the like, repeatedly recognised by the United States as the ground of a.pre-emption right.
He has, especially, an equitable title against the city of Mobile,
who not only looked on while he was expending money and
labour as owner; but compelled him to pay taxes as owner for
the publid use, and to contribute to the public gratification and
convenience by adorning the streets in the neighbourhood of his
property; and finally by resolution, ordered him to be prosecuted
as owner for an alleged nuisance on his lot.
Again, he is within the very words of the second section oi
tniact of 1824, and within the-decision of this Court, in Pollard's
'heirs v Kibb , 14 Peters, 353. In the bill'of exceptions (Printed
Record, 10) the facts were submitted to the jury by thp judge,
with instructions precisely conformable to the act. The facts
have been found, and upon those facts the judgment, is right.
With the state 'of facts, judicially settled, as the record shows, the
defendant was clearly entitled under the act; and it would have
been palpable error to give judgment against him. There was
no "'right or claim" remaining in the United States; and therefore there was none granted to the city of Mobile.. It is of no
importance that other questions arose and were discussed in that
Court, or in the Supreme Court of Alabama; nor whether the
oninion u'on them was right or wrong. If the. defendant was
entitled to judgment, those questions are immaterial, and this
Court will affirm the judgment upon its proper grounds. The
defendant has a perfect title under the act of 1824, whether he
had a right before or not; and no one can gainsay it, who claims
VOL. XVI.-X
31

242

SUPREME COURT.
[The City of Mobile v. Eslava.]

by. virtue of a residuary grant of the sabie act, as the city of
Mobile does.
It is needless to add, finally, that tle defendant clearly had a
"claim" within the proviso of the act. He was in actaal pos
session, notoriously claiming a right. The United States never
meant to convey to the city of Mobile a capacity to "distirb possessions, and carry on lawsuits. Neither did they mean- to
destroy the power of Congress to hear applications for relief from
persons whose claims, though imperfect, Were, entitled to. equitable consideration and allowance. Where the land was vacant,
and no claim was made to it, it was granted. Such a grant was
consistent with the ordinary method of proceeding. But to part
by grant, (and especially without consideration or equivalent,)
with the power of doing liberal justice to claimants in Actual
possession, in the usual way; would seem to be against precedent,
policy, and reason, and in derogation of the accustomed privileges
of the citizen. This Court has not so interpreted the act of 1824.
Pollard's heirs v; Kibb6, 14 Peters, 365. The claim was at least
such'an one as might be presented to Congress; and such an one,
therefore, as to be within the proviso, according to the- decision
of this Court.
Mr. Justice MLEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes before this Court on a writ of error to the
Supreme Court of Alabama.
The plaintiffs brought an action to recover certain lots in the
city of Mobile, bounded east by Commerce street, south by Church
street, on the west by Water street, and extending on the east
side of Commerce street t6 the channel of the river. They claim
title under the act of Congress of the 26th May, 1824; and the
Circuit Court of the state, in which the action was first brought,
decided against their title. That decision wa.s removed to the
Supreme Court of the state by writ of error, where the judgment
of the Circuit Court was affirmed. Under the twenty-fifth sectiol of the judiciary act of 1789, the case is brought before this
Court.
The first section of the above act declares, "That all the right
and claim of the United States to the lots known as the Hospital
and Bakehouse lots, containing about three-fourths of an acre of

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

243

[The City of Mobile v. Esluva.]

land ih the state of Alabama; and also, all the right and claim
of the United States to all the lots not sold or confirmed to individuals, 'either by this or.any former act, and to which no equitable
title exists in favour of any individual under'this or any other
act, between hiigh-water mark and the channel of -the river,'and
betweeh Church street and' North Boundary street, in front of the
said city, be, and the same -are hereby vested in the -mayor and
aldermen of the said city of Mobile, for the'time being, and their
successdrs in office, for the sole use and benefit of the. said city
forever."
'Ihe defendant's title was adquirea by purchase from' the
United States, at a public sale, in 1820. This sale was -made
under the act of Congress of the 20th April, 1818, which gave
power to the President to sell the ground on which Fort Charlotte, at Mobile, stood. The ground wa required to be laid off
into lots, with suitable streets and avenues, conforming, as near
as practicable, to the plan of the city. Ten squares aid parts of
squares were surveyed, and divided into lots, streets, &c. Bythe original plan of the city, a street known zs Water street, was
run on the margin of the Mobile river, and-this street; by 'the
said survey, was extended over a part of.the site of Fort Charlotte along the margin of the'river: No lots were sold. east of
this street. . Lots 10, U, 12, and 13;.-if square '1, lie immediately
west of Water, stieet, and are bounded by it. The lots-in dispute
lie 'east of Water street, and directly' opposite the lbt above
numbered.
In 1822,.'Water street and the property now in dispute,'were
between high and low water mark. 'The corporation of the city,
ii.1823, expended four hundred dollars in filling up 'Water street;
and by the. improvement confined the water at high tide to the
eastern side of Water street:
It was proved on the tHial, that in .order to reclaim one of the
lots in square 2, east of Water street, the owner had to fill up
seven feet; and that he coula not pass along Water street at that
time except with the aid of logs and other timbers. Another
witness stated that he purchased the lot west of the lots in dispute, and that he had to 'fill up his lot before it could be occupied.
And other evidence was given by defendant conducing' to prove
that the ea3tern line of the lots, at the date of "the sale, was

k4U

SUPREME COURT.
[The City of Mobile v. Eslava.]

below high-water mark; and that the company who purchased
the lots, at the sale of the government, expended 'about three
thousand, dollars for the common benefit of their property, and
to keep the water from it. It was also proved that after the
purchase of one of the lots in controversy, by Addin Lewis,
under whom the defendant- claims, he caused dirt tio be hauled
upon it, and timbers were laid to force out the water and fit the
lot for a timber yard. Charles Matthews; who owted one of the
lots, bounded by the water, expended one thousand dollars in
filling up his lot.,
And to show improvements on the lots in dispute before 1824,
the defefidant read'from the book of the corporation, the following entry, dated in 1823: "Charles S. Matthe.ws having improved
his lot 'by' filling it up, and a stagnant pond being occationed
thereby at the end of Church street, &c." In 1824, about onehalf, of the space between, Water -street and Commerce street,
was" subject to be coveredby water at the ordinary tides. ,Water
street was. not opened as low as Church street untif 1824. It
appeared that the 'defendant and those under whom he claims,
had paid takes on the property to the corporation. That in 1824
or 1625, the defendant was required to pay for side walks around
his lots, upon the assessment of the corporatiqn; and in 1833, he
was required by the mayor of the cityj to fill up two places upon
one of the lots with earth or shells. Ab6ut this time, the lot w~s
advertised for sale, as the- property of Matthews the defendant's
tenant, for taxes due the corporation; which were afterwards
paid, with the costs of advertising, &c.
Upon these facts, the Circuit'Judge charged the-jury, ' That, if
the lots 'specified-in the patents 10, 1-1, 12, &c., were proved to
-b've,been bounded by high-water mark at:the time purchased,
.theh-hey came within the terms of' 1ots kmown under the Spanish
government as water lots,' as'usd in.the act of Congress; and if
proved that the lots claimed were east, of Water street, and in
front of the. lots covered by the patents,, and. that they had been,
improved before the passage of the act of 1824, they were vested
in the proprietors and occupants-of the lots held undei the patents;
and this, although Water street did intervene b'etween the lots
claimed and-those held under the patents." And thie Court
furtfier chargedthe jury, that "it the proof showed the property;

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

245

[The City of Mobile v. Eslava.]

to have beep.assessed in 1823, by the city authorities, at four
thousand dollars, and recently at eighty-eight thousaqd dollars,
and that the improved value resulted from the labour of Charles
Matthews; that if in August, 1823, the mayor and alder~aen,
in reference to one of the lots in dispute, had on their minutes
used this language, viz.: Whereas Charles Matthews has commenced to improve his lot by filling up, &c., and that a committee
was organized to inquire into a nuisance connected with the lot;
that in 1824 or 1825 of the years between that and the commencement of the suit, the city taxes had been assessed on the
property and collected from Matthews; and that he had been
required by an ordinance of the mayor and 'aldermen to make
side walks along this lot, and had so -lone; that Matthews had
by a written notice issued by the mayor, been required to fill up
some low places on said lot, to abate a nuisance thereon, and
that this property was advertised for sale as the property of Matthews, in one of the city papers, for the non-payment of city taxes
assessed thereon; and that subsequently Matthews had paid such
taxes into the city treasury: that the f-cts estopped the plaintiff
from asserting any pre-existing title under the act of Congress."
The plaintiffs' counsel requested the judge to charge the jury,
"that if they believed "thefacts were proved as contended for by
them, that the plaintiffs were entitled to a verdict :,their favour;
which the judge refused to do."
In their opinion, the Supreme Court of Alabama do not give a:
construction of the act of 1824, under which the plaintiffs! right is
asserted; but consider the respective rights and powers of the
federal and state governments arising under the federal Constitution, and the compact entered into on the admission of the state
of Alabama into the Union. The power of the Spanish monarch
over the soil and navigable waters, when the territory was under
his dominion, is also considered and illustrated; and the doctrines of the common law as applicable to the subject are examined: and by this course of reasoning, the Court, among other
conclusions, decide that the act of 1824 is void, as Congress had
no power to grant the property in dispute.
The result of this investigation was the affirmance of the
judgment of the Circuit Court. And so far as regards the question before us, it is immaterial by what process of reasoning the

SUPREME COURT.
[The City of Mobile v. Esava]

Supreme Court of Alabama came to this conclusion. Their opinion constitutes no part of the record, and is not properly a part
of the case. We must look to the points raised'by the exceptions
in the Circuit Court, as the only questions for our consideration
and decision.
Both parties set up a right under the act of 1824. It is the
foundation of the plaintiffs' title; and the defendant relies upon it
as sanctioning his claim. Now, no construction of this act can
favour the hostile pretensions of both parties; and if the true construction of it shall give n6 title to the plaintiffs, this controversy
is at an end. And in this view it is innecessary to inquire into
the constitutionality of the act.
The defendant insists'that his right is sanctioned by the second
section of the above act, which provides, "that all the right and
claim of the United States to so many of the lots of ground east
of Water street, and between Church street and North Boundary
street, now known as water lots, as are situated between the
channel of the river and the front of the lots known, under the
Spanish government, as water lots, in the said city of Mobile,
whereon improvements have been made, be, and the same are
hereby, vested in the several proprietors and occupants of each' of
the lots heretofore fronting on the river Mobile, except in cases
where such proprietor or occupant has alienated his right to any
such lot now-designated as a water lot, &c."
TPis Court gave some consideration to the construction of this
section in the case of Pollard'. heirs v. Kibb6, 14 Peters, 353 ; and
there was a diversity of opinion among the judges on the subject.
It must be admitted that the section was loosely drawn, and its
"meaning may be somewhat involved in doubt.
Some doubt has been expressed whether the improvements
required were to ha,,e been- made on the front or water lot. But
we think they must be made on the latter. The right relinquished
by the United States was to the water lois lying "east of Water
street," "and between Church street and North Boundary street,
now known as water lots, as are situated between the channel
of the river and the front of the lots known under the Spanish
government as water lots, in the said city of Mobile, whereon
improvements have been made." Now it will be observed that
all the words between the words "water- lots" first used in the

JANUARY TERM, 1S42,

247

[The City of Mobile v. Eslava.]"

above sentence, and the words "whereon improvements have
been made," are only descriptive of the locality of the water lots
to which.the right was relinqdushel. And if this be. the case, it
follow., that the impr6venments refer to the water, and not the
front tots. And we think a reasonable construction of the act reqqires the improvements to have been made or owned by the proprietor of the front lof at the time of its passage. Being proprietor
of the front lot, and'having improved the water lot oppiosite and
east of Water street, constitute the conditions on which the right,
if any, under the statute vests.
In his charge to the jury, the judge laid down' these conditions
in clear terms; and instructed the jury, if the facts brought the defendant within them, that they should find against the plaintiffs.
The jury did so find, and this is, conclusive as to the facts of the
case: and the only inquiry remains, whether by any possible
construction of the act, in view of these facts, any right under it
can be asserted by the plaintiffs.
A statute so badly drawn as to vest a right ko the 'same property in hostile claimants, v ould in itself be a nullity. Ex6eptionable and involved as the language of this statute may be, it
is not obnoxious to this objection.
The first section, under which alone can the plaintiffs pretend
to have any colour of right, excepts from its provisions "lots sold
or confirmed to individuals, either by that or any former act,
aid to which an equitable title exists in favour of any individual
under that or any other act." This exception embraces the right
of the defendant, as found by the jury; and shows that however
obscure some points of the act may be, its provisions are consistent.
As this is decisive of the case, it is unnecessary to notice the
instruction prayed for by the plaintiffs in the Circuit Court; and
which the Court refused to give. It was asked in affirmance,
generally, of the plaintiffs' right..
The judgment of theSupreme Court of Alabama, which affirms
the judgment of the Circuit Court of that state, is affirmed.
Mr. Justice CATROM.
* This is a writ of error prosecuted to reverse the decision of the
Supreme Court of Alabaina, in an action corresponding to an
ejectment. The first, question is, has this Court jurisdiction

SUPREME COURT.
[The City of Mobile v. EslavL].

under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act? Both parties
claim under a private act of Congress of the 2Qth of May, 1824.
It granted to the corporation of Mobile, the lands betweei highwater mark and the channel of the river, in front of the city: the
premises sued for are included within the limits. The decision
of the State Court was against the right claimed, on the part of
the plaintiffs. First, The defendant set up a claim under the
second section of the same act, because he had improved tle premises before 1824, and when he was an alienee from the proprietors of the front lots west of Water street.
Second. He insisted that the city was estopped to set up a
claim under the act of Congress; because the defendant had improved the lot, and been recognised as owner by the corporation,
in various ways.
The plaintiffs having read. the act of Congress as a grant, and
proved the defendant in possession, asked the Court to instruct
the jury, that if they believed the facts were proved, as contended
for by them, they were entitled'to a verdict; which instruction the
Court refused: and a verdict was rendered for the defendant, and
judgment given in the Circuit Court for him, to w.hich a writ of
error was prosecuted to the Supreme Court. One error assigned
is, -That the charge of the Circuit Judge denies that the United
States had power to grant the premises in question."' On this
assignment, there was a joinder-that there was no error.
The plaintiffs' title is set out in the record;. and upon this title
and upon the last assignment of error, is the opinion of the Supreme Couit of Alabama exclusively founded. The opinion is
before us, and maintains that the act of 1824 is void; as did a
most laboured argument here, on the part of the defendant in
error. To meet the opinion, this cau.e was avowedly brought
into this Court, by the corporation of the city of Mobile; it is
conclusive in the State Courts against the title of the city, and
that of its alienees, to a vast amount of property feld under the
act of 1824: and I think it is our duty to meet the question; if we
do not, the decision will remain the law of Alabama. The whole
title of both sides are set forth in the record; aud it was quite
proper in the Supreme Court'of Alabama to commence with the
examination of the plaintiffs' first; and if found void, to declare

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

249

[The City of Mobile v. Eslava.]

that the plaintiffs could only recover on the strength of their own
title, and refuse to examine the advdrsary title of defendant.
The charge of the Circuit Court on any other point was not
noticed; nor do I see how, in another case, the corporation can
more prominently present the question on the validity of the act
of Congress, so as to bring it before this Court for final decision.
First, or last, this is not to be avoided.
That the whole case is before this Court, will be seen-by reference to Botland v. Ross, 1 Peters, 664. There both sides derived
title under an act of Congress. The defendlant's claim was rejected on a construction given to the plaintiff's patent and entry.'
It recognised the case of Mathews v. Zane, 4 Cranch, 382, as
having settled the doctrine that where both sides claim under
acts of Congress, and come to this Court under.!the twenty-fifth
section 6f the judiciary act, for their construction, the Court proceeds on the whole case; and for either side. The Court say--"The third article of the Constitution, when considered in 'connection with the statute, will give it a more extensive construction
than it might otherwise receive. It is supposed that the act
(1789, s. 25) intends to give this Court power of rendering uniform the construction of the laws of the United States,,and the
decision of rights and titles claimed under those laws." This
decision was made in 180S.
The case of Borland v. Ross, was this:
Borland claimed by a patent, dated October, 1830, founded on
ali entry of 1807.
The defendant claimed under a patent dated i 1819.
The State Court adjudged the younger'patent the better title;
it was coupled with the entry--giving the title daie from 1807.
'This Court say-" By the Constitution, the 'judicial power shall
exterd to all cases arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States, and treaties made, or to be made, under their authority: and where the construction of a statute of the United
States is drawn in question, and the decision is against the right,
or title set up under it, the decision may be re-examined, and reversed or affirmed, by this Court. . The Court hi1d, that as b;oth
parties claimed under the act of Congress, the case of Mathews v.
Zane governs.

250

SUPREME COURT.
[The Uity of Mobile v. EIava.]

*Thepoint was more prominently presented in Wilcox v. Jackson, 1.3 Peters, 509.
A pre-emption claimant took old Fort Dearborne, at Chicago.
He got-a, certifiate frbm the register of the land-office; on this
the State Circuit Court in Illinois. A special verdict
he
set sued
out allinthe
facts. The defendant was a military officer in the
fort. The United States resisted the claim, because it was insisted
the fort was appropriated land. On the special verdict, and on
the broad facts referred to the Court by the jury; the Circuit
Court gave judgment for the defendant. A writ of error was prosecuted to the Supreme Court of Illinois. That Court gave judgment for the plaintiff. Then the United States, in the name of
Wilcox, prosecuted a writ of error to this Court under the twentyfifth section of the judiciary act.
We examined the cause precisely as the Supreme Court of Illinois bad done; that is, on the entire record presented by the
special verdict.
On what ground the Court below had founded its judgment,
we only knew by its opinion produced to us. We reversed the
judgment, and rendered 'one for the defendant. We declarpd the
entry on which the plaintiff founded his action void, on a construction of the acts, of Congress governing the case; following,
to some extent, Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 305, 355.
In this case the Supreme Court of Alabama declared the grant
of the plaintiff void, because the land, as they supposed, had
vested previously in the -state. Had the bill of exceptions been
turned into a special verdict, and there would not be a shade of
difference in the cases. On this point there was no doubt entertained in Pollard's heirs v. Kibb6, 14 Peters, 53.
With this explanation' we will proceed to the merits; and
first inquire, whether the claim of the defendant can be sustained
under his title from the purchasers of the Fort Charlotte property. By the act of April, 1818, (Land Laws, 756,) the President was authorized to cause Fort Charlotte to be abandoned,
and the land on which itstood to be surveyed and laid off into
lots, with.suitable streets and avenues, conforming as near as
might be to the original plan of the city of Mobile; and on
the survey being completed, a plot thereof was to be returned to the Secretary'of the Treasury; and another to be fur-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

-51

[The City of Mobile v. Esava.]

nished to the officer authorized to dispose of the lots, by the President; the lots were to be advertised and sold as other public lands
of the United States, and a patent was to be issued for each lot.
The lots were laid off, as also the streets. Water street was
located next the bay, and the lots nearest.the water fronted that.
street on the west; the lots were neither surveyed nor sold east of
Water street. High tide flowed up to the street, and in part
covered it; but east of it there was a wide flat, covered from a
foot to eighteen inches deep, when the tide was in; but when
out, free from water to the channel of the Mobile river. This
flat was easily reclaimed by embankments, and filing up; and
was obviously the ground on which a great. part of the city would
soon be located. Reclaiming lands from the water through-that
section of country, is the common practice, and was deemed a
matter of course in this instance. The purchasers of the Fort
Charlotte lots west of Water street, foreseeing the value of the
propdrty east of it, seized on the flooded lands on the assumption
that they were entitled to go to the channel of the river, as riparian'owners of the front on the shore; and on this assumptfon,
sold to Matthews. the property in dispute, lying east of Water
street. The flat has since been filled up, and" tli6re are several
streets east of Water street. It ismanifest the United States only
sold the lots laid off, (for eachof which 'a patent was issued;)
reserving the land next the channel of the river: in regard to
which, the Supreme Court of Alabama say: "the defendant does
not rely upon his riparian proprietorship, as entitling him to the
land east of Water street; nor, indeed, could he insist on it with
success, as the Fort Charlotte lots were not bounded by the,
river, but had other fixed metes and bounds."
Nor was it
possible that the lands seized upon and sold to Matthews,
could follow as an incident to the patent, for two additional
reasons: First, had the putchase been to the river, or bay of
Mobile, in terms, the boundary would have been limited to
high-water mark. Such is the rule, (as I think,) beyond coNrtroversy, In regard to all our territory acquired from Spain. So
the Supreme Court of Alabama held in Hagner v. Campbell,
8 Porter's Rep. 24. So it has held in other cases. It is the established law of property in that state. Second, Water street wag
reserved next the bay, and, being publiq property,'all the inci-

SUPREME COURT.
[The City of Mobile v. Eslava]

dents of accretion; (had any accrued,) would have belonged to
the public, and not to the owners of lots west of the intervening
street. On this point the great Battuer case, at New Orleans,
turned. See Dubigney's Expose, 22, 58, 59. Gravier claimed
-to'have purchased to the river Mississippi, and the claim was
resisted, on the ground that he had only purchased to the highway lying on the bank of the river. The question was, who
should have the accretions? The case was decided on the fact
that Gravier's purchase of the Jesuit's property was bounded by
The bank ;*and.that the road run over his property, as an easement.
2 Hall's Law Journal, 295; 5 Hall's Law Journal, 1 arid 113;
Angel on Tide-waters, app. 197, Mr. Livingston's argument.
.The fact that Water street was reserved to the United States is
undisputed in this case, and is conclusive of any claim east of the
-intervening street, in the purchasers of the Fort Charlotte lots.
The defendant's title can therefore derive no aid from this source.
2. Did he derive title by force of the act of 1824? The Court
below held that the act was inoperative, for want of power in
-Congress to pass title to the, lands between Water street and the
channel of the river; and the corporation of the city of Mobile,
being the plaintiff, could not recover (as actor) for want of title.
That the United States acquired the title to lands flowed by tides,
by the treaty with Spain, is, of course, admitted. That they had
power to grant, uip to the adoption of the Constitution of Alabama, in 1819, is also admitted in the opinion under revie t. That
the Spanish king could grant lands under tide-water, is free from
doubt, and the United States acquired by cession all his powers
over the vacant soil. But the lands flowed by the tides are claimed
for the state of Alabama as a part of her sovereign rights.
To comprehend the nature of the claim some laws and facts
must be stated. When the Alabama territory, in 1819, proposed to form a state government, Congress passed an act (ch.
171) to authorize the formation of a state constitution; and
pr6posed several conditions for the adoption of the convention,
which ivere adopted as part of the constitution; and amongst
others, it was agreed with the United States, "That the people
of Alabama forever disclaim all right and title to the wastu or
unappropriated lands lying within the state; and that the same
shall renain at the sole disposition of tfie United States."

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

253

[The City of Mobile v.Eslava.]

" 2. That all the navigable waters within the state shall forever
remain public highvays, and free to the citizens of that state, and
the United States, without any tax, duty, or impost, or toll therefor, imposed by that state."
The constitution of Alabama was presented to Congress for
tecognition; and on the 14th of December, 1819, it was resolved,
"1That the state of Alabama shall be one, and is hereby declared
to be one of the United States of America, and admitted into the
Union on an equal footing with the originaL states, in all respects
whatever." By the acceptance of the conditions on part of the
United States, it is considered clear, says the Supreme Court of
Alabama, ccThat the navigable waters of this state have been
dedicated to the common use of the people of the United States;
but perhaps it may be considered as questionable what extent of
soil is embraced by the dedication. We think it must be so much
ground as is covered with water, not only at low but at high
tide."
The Court then proceeds further to declare, "That the act of
1824 vested no title in the corporation of Mobile; for the reason that
the state of Alabama was admitted into the Union on the footing
of the original states. That the original 'states by their colonial
charters had the right of property, in bays and arnis of the sea;
this they retained, and it can only be interfered with by the
federal government, under the right to regulate commerce, so far
as to preserve a free navigation. The United' States then? may
be said to claim for the public an easement for the transportation
of merchandise, &c., in the navigable waters of the original
states; while the right of property remains in the states."
"The original states possessing this interest in the waters with-.
in their jurisdictional limits, the new states cannot stand upon an
equal footing with them as members of the Union, if the United
States still retain over their navigable waters any other right than
is fiecessary to the exercise of its constitutional powers. To recapitulate, we are of opinion: First, That the navigable waters
within this state have been dedicated to the use of the citizens of
the United States, so that it is not competent for Congress to grant
a right of property in the same. Second, The navigable waters
extend not only to low water, but embrace all the soil that is within
the limits of high-water mark. Third, By the acts of Congress
VOL. XVI.-Y

SUPREME COURT.
[The City of Mobile v. Eslava.]

regulating the survey and disposal of the public lands, the federal govermnent has renounced the title to the navigable waters
and the soil covered by them; consequently the plaintiffs cannot
recover on the ground of a dedication to the uses of the city under
the act of 1824, which is an enactment of a later date. Fourth,
The original states, invirtue of their royal charters, are entitled
to the right of propert5 in the navigable waters within their territory, while the public are only entitled to an easement, to be
provided for under that provision of the federal Constitution
which authorizes Congress to regulate commerce, &c. Alabama
is admitted intothe Union on an equal footing with the original
states; and, of consequence, is entitled to the right of property in
the tide-waters within its limits. Fifth, By the admission of
Alabama into the Union, withoUt a reservation of the right of
property in the navigable waters, the state succeeded to all the
right of the United States, except so far as it was reserved by the
federal Constitution in some of its grants, or its retention was necessary to enable the federal government to exercise its delegated
powers. Having attained these conclusions, it will follow that
the act of 1824 is inoperative, and confers no title upon the
plaintiffs."
That the original states acquired by the -Revolution the entire
rights of soil, and of sovereignty is most certain. And if it be
true that Alabama was admitted on an equal footing in regard to
the rights of soil with the original states, she can hold the high
lands equally with the land covered by navigable waters; ,and so
can nine other states equally hold, to the uttei destruction of all
claim to the lands heretofore indisputably rec(gnised as belonging to-the United States, as being a common fund of the Union.
The clause inserted into the constituition of Alabama, reserving the rights of property to the United States, as a compact with
them, embraces lands under water as emphatically as those not
covered with water? But if no stipulation saving the interest of
the United States had been made, they would have had just
as much right to their private property as an individual had to
lhis. They hold, as a corporation, an individual title.
The Constitution of the United States provides, "that the Congress shall have power to dispose of, and make all needful rules
and regulations respecting the territory or other property belong-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

255

[The City of Mobile v. Esava.]

ing to-the United States: and hothing in this Constitution shall
be so construed as to prejudice' any claims of the United States,
or of any particular state." This is the paramount law of thie
land, by force of which the puiblic domain in Alabama was held
and governed, and which needed no aid.
Neither did Congress cede it by stipulating that the navigable
rivets should be highways. That such waters are common for
'the purposes of navigation and commerce, in the widest sense, is
free from doubt; that Alabama has jurisdiction and power over
them, the same as the. original states have over their navigable
waters, is equally clear. Yet it does not follow that the fee of
the shores, banks, and soils under water, is in the state, of
Alabama. The United States, as owner, can do no act to obstruct the free public use of the waters, more than a private
ownier of the soil under water could obstruct the navigation.
The individual owner in fee of the bottom of a navigable river,
can cultivate and take out the shell fish or the minerals from the
bed; nor can it be doubted that the United States may pursue.
veins of silver, tin, lead, or copper, under the bottom of a bay,
the river Mississippi, or a great lake; although they could not
impede in any degree their navigation. So may the assignees or
lessees of the United. States do the same. Nor can it be otherwise in regard to the occupation of the lands between high and
low water mark. The' Delta of Mississippi,,the greater part of
East Florida, much of Alabama, and also of the state of Mississippi;.hav .Jands covered slightly with the flow of high-water.
These lands are subject to be redeemed by embankments; they
amount to some millions of acres; many of them are of th6 best
rice, indigo, and even sugar and cotton lands on this continent.
Immense bodies of -land are flowed by the great lakes, and
siabject to beredeemed; alad ye t more, many parts of the shores
of the great river Mississippi, from the mouth of the Missouri to
the'ocean, are annually flowed by a tide of its own; and thelands
are redeemed by levees from the water until the vessels on the surface of the river float above redeemed plantations that have been
submerged for months every year; and that were submerged in
1819, when it is supposed the United States, by implication, ceded
all the flawed lands within her limits to Alabama. Enbankments to exclude the water are almost as common on the banks

256

SUPREME COURT.
[The City of Mobile 'v. Eslava.]

of the Mississippi river, and in the Delta of country embraced by its
mouths, as are fences in other parts of the country to protect the
crops from animals; and it is not in the reach of probability, or
of belief, that Congress, by an oversight, surrendered all flowed
lands to the states in Which they lie; or that,it was intended to
cede to the new states the right to prohibit the construction of
forts and defences by the United States, on the public lands below
the high-water mark. I'imagine it has never occurred. to any
one, that a purchase of the soil from the state of Louisiana was
necessary befire works within the flow of tide-water could be
constructed for the defence of the mouths of the *Mississippiriver.
The idea is new; and the assumption leading to such a consequence, startling. It is certainly not so in 'Alabama. To cut off
every preience of the kind, Congress asked Alabama when she
entered the Union, to disclaim all right and title to th6 unappropriated and waste landd lying within the state, and that the same
should remain at the sole disposition of the United States; and
to this Alabama bound herself in the most solemn manner by her
constitution. The claim set up for her, en this ground, has theiefore no just foundation.
The Supreme Court of Alabama also holds that by the several
acts of Congress, regulating the survey of the 'public lands, it is
provided that those which border on navigable waters shall not
include within their lines any part of the shore: and, therefore,
the federal government has -renounced the title to the navigable
waters, and the soil covered by them.
The United States have surveyed the shores of the tide-waters,
great lakes, and certainly the banks of the great rivers to a wide
extent. From the first, shores and banks of rivers have been the
boundaries of fractional sections ; large quantities of land have
been sold and are now in the market, within the high-water
mark; many even on the Alabama river. On the Mississippi,
most of the fractions are partially overflowed. Towns and villages on the banks of the river are partly withiu the high-water
mark, resting on patents from the United States; or on confirmed
French and Spanish claims. Scarcely any are exempt. from this
supposed infirmity. of title when situated on tide-water or on
the larger rivers, and this is especially so in regard to the towns
on the Mississippi, within the range of country "sold out by the

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

257

[The City of Mobile v. Eslava.]

United States. Indeed, one town, at the mouth of the Ohio, is
entirely below high-water mark, and secured by embankment;
so that it is idle to" adduce the practice of the governnent as
proof of abandonment. The United States reserved the lands
under water, and between high and low water mark,-in many
instances for public use; and subject to grant by special acts of
Congress. That this is so, we need go no further than the city
of Mobile for evidence. The British government made a grant
to William Richardson, in 1767, fronting on Mobile xiver one
hundred and forty poles, but bounded by the river. In 1807, the
Spanish governor at Pensacola confirmd the same to John Forbes and Company, extending to' the channel of the river. This
grant was void for want of autho rity in the governor, to. make
it; the country having been ceded to the United States. Garcia v.
Lee, 12 Peters, 511. The act'of 1819, (Land Laws, 748,) granted
it by confirmation to John Forbes and Company. It lies at the
city, is two hundred and sixty-three -acres on the high land,, and
was adjudged a good title in Hagan and Others v. Campbell, by
the Supreme Court of Alabama. 8 Peters, 1 to 25. So in Pollards v. Kibb6, 14 Peters, 355. The cause came to this Court
from the Supreme Court of Alabama. That Court held that the
act of 1824, above referred to,'conferred the- better title on' the
defendant. This Court reversed the decision, because the land
in dispute was excepted from the act; and declared that the private act of July, 1836, vested the title in tee in Pollard's heirs,
the plaintiffs in the suit. They are now in'as grantees, by force of
the private act, under the sanction of our decision. The land
lies east of Water street, and was covered with water at high
tide the same as the land in controversy.
If Congress had no power to grant; the act of 1836 is void
and our decision wrong, as was that of the Supreme Court of
Alabama in the same case; for they held the previous act of 1824
was a valid grant. Many of the flowed lands must have private
owners. The old states are in the constant habit of granting
them; in some they are supposed to be of almost equal value
with all the high lands: so it was confidently asserted in the argument of the cause of Martin v. Waddell, in regard to New Jersey.
The great oyster banks are certainly worth many millions of dollars in that state, and are fast becoming private property. If the
y2

33

258

SUPREME COURT.
[The City of Mobile v. Eslava.]

United States cannot make titles, the new states must make
them. The city of Mobile, on the river front two squares deep,
is without title if it be true that the act of 1824 is void for want
of power-in the United States to give title. I think it clear that
the assumption of abandonment, because of the mode of surveying
the public lands, cannot be maintained.
Nor has Alabama a better founded or more plausible claim
to the lands between high and low-water mark, on the ground
that she was admitted into the Union on an equal footing
with the original, states. What was the condition of these states
-the old thirteen-when they entered the Union? In Massachiisetts-including what is now lkaine--all the right of soil to
lands, so far as the sea ebbed and flowed, by the colonial charter,
(to the extent of one hundred rods,) was in the owners of the
shores; and although the charter was annulled, the right was
maintained as the common law of the state at the Revolution.
The law and decision are found in Angel on Tide-watet, 108;
and in Dane's Abr. 694, 698.
So in New York, lands were held under tide-water, especially
about the city, by individual titles. Mayor, &c., v. Scott, 1 Caines'
Rep. 543.
So it was in west New Jersey--and to a great extent in Pennsylvania and Maryland. The authorities will be found in Martin
v. Waddell, decided at this term. It was only in those states
where the royal charters had been surrendered or forfeited to
',the crown, and in which no grants to flowed lands had been
made, (if any such there were,) that they devolved on the state
as a consequence of the Revolution, That mud-flats Were then
held in private property in every state of the Union can hardly
be doubted. If one was in this condition, it is enough for our
purpose. In Massachusetts they were all thus held. If Alabama came in "on the same footing" with Massachusetts; then all
the inud-flats may be held in private property also in Alabama.
The stipulation in the ordinance of 1787, and which is repeated
in the resolution admitting Alabama, guiarantying to the new
state equal rights with the old, referred to the political rights and
sovereign capaities left to the old states, unimpared by the Constitution of the United States; and which were confirmed to them
by that instrument. Whilst territories, the people inhabiting the

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

259

[The City of Mobile v. Eslava.]

countries now composing the new states, were subject to the will
of Congress; unrestrained further than restrictions were imposed
by the federal Constitution; and by compact, where 'the lands
had been ceded by an original state, or by treaty, when acquired
from a foreign nation. The power.of Congress was, and now is,
in the territories, almost absolute. From this power, the territory is withdrawn, to the same extent, on entering the Union, that
the original states were exempt, when they formed the Constitution: having equal capacities of self-government with the old
states, -and equal benefits under the Constitution of the United
States. This is the extent of the guarantee. That each and all
of the states have sovereign power over their navigable waters
above and below the tide, no one doubts. And it is just as free
from doubt, that the shores and banks of such waters, and the
mud-flats flowed by them, are the subject of private ownership.
The property cannot be appropriated to the obstruction or injury,
of the public use in the water, furthe than the state government
permits; and if it is attempted, the obstruction may be abated as
a nuisance. Whether the Bay of Mobile has been obstructed, is
not a matter of incuiry; no one pretends that it has been: the
question is, could the flat between high-water mark and the
channel of the river be granted by the individual owner, the
United States. That it could, is, I think, free from doubt; and
that the act of 1824 is valid, and passed the title to the corporation
of Mobile, unless the defendant's premises were excepted from
the grant by the act.
The first section vests in the mayor and aldermen all the lands
between high-water mark and the channel of the river, in front
of the city, that lie belov North Boundary stieet and above
Church street. From which general grant are excepted by the
second section lots on which improvements had been made lying
east of Water street and fronting the water lots, during the Spanish government, lying -west of, Water street. The improved
property was by the act vested in the proprietor or occupant
of the lot fronting and opposite on the -west of the street; or in
the purchaser of the new lot from the owner of the old one.
That the improvement must have been on the eastern and new
water lot, is, to my mind, plain from the reading of the act; so it
has been held by the Courts of Alabama, as appears by the case

260

SUPREME, COURT.
[The City of Mobile v. Eslaya.]

of Pollard's heirs: that this has been the construction of the act
t)y ihe parties interested, is. manifest from all the controversies in
regard to this property;, and thdse at whose instance the act was
passed are the best judges of its meaning. 12 Wheat. 200. The
old lots were only referred .to, to give locality to the new in case
of existing improvements east of Water street. If the proprietor
(which means owner) of the old lot had improved on the flat in
front of it, then he was entitled by the act to an equal width extejnding to the channel of 'the river, as compensation for his improvement. The Fot Charlotte lots were sold to a company,
and 'they improved,, before 1824, in front of six of them; and
sold to Charles L. Matthews, who 'continued improving in 1823,
and 1824; and has occupied the premises since; and he and his
tenants defend the suit. The property was valued; for the purpose of taxation, at eighty-eight thousand dollars at the time of
the trial; it was worth only four thousand dollars in 1823, and
it was proved the increased value resulted from -the labour of
Charles Matthews.
The Circuit Court charged the jury.(amongst other charges)
"that, if the lot specified in the patents 10, 11, 12, &c., were
proved to have been bounded by high-water mark at the time
.of ihe purchase; then they came within the terms of lots
known under the Spanish government a water lots, as used, in
the act of Congress;" and if it was proved that the'lot claimed
was east of Water street, and in front of the lots covered by the
patents, and that had been -improved before the passage of the
act, it was vested in the proprietors and occupants of the lots held
under,the patents; and this, although Water street did intervene
between the lots claimed and those held under the patents. The
charge is deemed correct. The objection that the land-,.in front
of the Fort Charlotte lots did not pass by the act, of 1824, has
nothing in it. The first and second sections, refer to the same
premises; the first covers all the lands between high-water mark
and the channel of the river, and lying between Church street
to North Boundary streets: of this there can be no doubt; and
the exceptions in the second section apply to every part of the
grant, made by the first. On these grounds the judgment should
be affirmed.

