JANUARY TERM, 1842.

JOHN

D.

AMIS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. NATHAN SmITH,
FENDANT

303

DE-

IN ERPOR.

Mississippi. Action on a promissory note against sundry persons surviving partners
of the unincorporated Real Est-te Bank of Columbus, Mississippi, founded on their
certificate of deposit. Altithe defendants, except Wright, joined in the plea of nonassumpsit Wright afterwards pleaded non-assumpsit, separately. At the trial, all
the defendants except Wright withdrew their plea, and permitted judgment to go by
default against them, and the plaintiff then discontinued the suit against Wright.
Exectqtion was issued, and was levied on the property of Amis, who gave to the
marshal a forthcoming bond with security, and the bond being forfeited, it was so
returned by the marshal, which, by the statute of Mississippi, gives the bond the force
and effect of a judgment against the obligor and his surety. At the succeeding term,
Amis moved the Court to quash the bond, which motion was overruled. The
plaintiff in error claimed, 1. That the Circuit Court erred in permitting the plaintiff
below to discontinue the suit against Wright, and in xendering judgment against
the other defendants. 2. The fieri facias was illegal, because it included interest,
not authorized by the judgment. 3. The overruling the motion to quash the forthcoming bond was a final judgment, which ought to be reversed.
If the contract be joint and several, and the defendants sever in their pleas, whatever
may have been the doubts and conflicting opinions of former times, as to the effect
of a nolle prosequi in such a case, it has never been held that a simple discontinuance of a suit amounts.to a retraxit; or that it in any manner worked a bar to
the repetition of the plaintiff's action.
By a statute of Mississippi, all promises, contracts, and liabilities of copaztners, are to be
deemed and adjudged joint and several ; and in all suits on contracts in writing made
by two or more persons, it is lawful to declare against any one or more of them.
This issuch a severance of the contract, as puts it in the power of the plaintiff to hold
any portion of them jointly, and the others severally bound by the contract; and there
is no obligation on the part of the plajntiff to put the defendanti in such condition,
by their pleadings, as to compel each to contribute his portion for the benefit of the
others. Cited, Minor and others v. The Mechanic's Bank of Alexandria, 1 Peters, 46.
On a joint and'several bond suit must be brought against all the obligors jointly, or
against each. one severally, because each is liable for the whole; but a joint suit cannot be maintained against a part,'omitting the rest. Whatever may be the defects,
or illegality of the figal
process, no error can be assigned in the Supreme Court on
a writ of error for that cause. The remedy, according to the modern practice, is by
motion in tho Court below to quash the execution. If the question of the right to
include the interest on the judgment in the execution were properly before the
Court, no reason could be seen why interest in aijudgment, which is secured by positive. law, is not as much a part of the judgment as if expressed in it.
The provisions of the thirdsection of theect of Congress of 19th May, 1828, adv,ted
the forthcoming bond in Mississippi, as a part of the final process of that state at the
time of the passage of the act. "' A final process" is understood by the Court to be all

SUPREME COURT.
(Amis v. Smith.]
the writs of execution then in use in the State Court"of-Mississippi, which were
properly applicable to the Courts of the United. States; and-the phrase, "the proceedings thereupon," are understood tomean the exercise of all the duties of the ministerial officers of the state, prescribed by the laws of the state for the purpose of obtaining
the- fruits of judgments-among thoie are Ihe provisions of the laws relating to
forthcoming bnds, which must be regarded as part of the fnal process.
The proceeding which produced the forthcoming bond, was purely ministerial; the judicial mind was in no way employed in its production. It does not then poses
the attributes of a judgment; and ought therefore to be treated in this Court as final
process, or, at least, as part of the final process.
As far as the decisions of the State Courts of Mississippi settle- rules of property, they
will, be properly respected by the Supreme Court, But when .the effect of a state
decision is only to regulate the practice of Courts,,und to determine what shall be a
judgment, the Supreme Court cannot consider themselves bound by such decisions,
upon the ground that the laws upon-which they are made are local in their character.
It is the duty of the Supreme Court to preserve the supremacy of the laws of the United
State, which they cannot do without disregarding all state laws, and state decisions
which conflict with the laws of the United States.
No rule, under the third section of the act of 1828 which authorizes the Courts of the
United States to alter final process, so far as to conform it to any changes which may
be adopted by state legislation and state adjudications, made by a District Judge, will
be recognised by the Supreme Court as binding, except those made by the District
Courts, exercising Circuit Court powers.
The statute of Mississippi, taking away the right to a writ oferror in the case of aforth.
coming bond forfeitea, can have no influence whatever in regulating writs of error
to the Circuit Courts of the United States. A rule of Court, adopting the statute as
a rule of practice, would, therefore, be void.
Regarding the Lorthcoming bond as part of the process of execution, a refusal to quai
the bond is not a judgment of the Court, and much less a final judgment; and there.
fore no writ of error lies in such a case.
IN error to the District Court of the United States for the

northern district of Mississippi.
In an action on a certificate of deposit, instituted on the 7th of,
November, 1839, by the; defendant in error, Nathan Smith, in the
District Court of,the United States for the northern district of
Mississippi, against the plaintiff in error, with others, who were
the surviving partners in the Real Estate Bank of Columbus, Mis-

sissippi; the plaintiff obtained a judgment by default against all
the defendants except Daniel W. Wright, who had been sued
All the defendants except
with them as one of the partners.
Wright, had entered a plea of non-assumpsit, which they afterwards at the trial withdrew; on which a judgment was entered

JANUARY TERM, 1842.
[Amfm v. smi ]

305

by nil dicit for two thousand five hundred and eighty-four dollars and seventy cents. Wright pleaded non-assumpsit separately;
and the plaintiff then discontinued the suit against Wright.
The plaintiff issued an execution, which was levied on-personal
property belonging to John D. Amis, who thereupon executed a
forthcoming bond, with Samuel F. Butterworth as security; which
bond being duly forfeited, operated, under the-laws of Mississippi,
as a judgment against the obligors. in the bond, on -hich execution may be issued forthwith,
On the 14th December, 1840, John D. Apiis, and Samuel Butterworth, moved the Court to quash the forthcoming bond. 1. Because it increases the costs, not warranted by law, the execution having included interest on the jiadgment. 2. That there
is no authority for taking, the said bond, or any'such bond; and
the bond creates i judgment against the obligors, and precludes
them from a defence, and a trial by jury secured by the ConstitUtion of the United States.
The Court., overruled--the motion, and the- defendant, John D.
Ams,prosecut6d this writ of error,
The case was argued by Mr. Key, for the plaintiff in error; and
by Mr. Walker, for the defendant.
Mr. Key contended, 1. That there was error-in the proceedings
of the District Court in allowing a -discontinuance as to, Daniel
.W.Wright, one of the defendants, and entering a judgment
against the other defendants.
2. There was errorin the Court having refused to quash the forthcoming bond given by John D. Antis and Samuel Butterworth.
The fieri facias which had been issued on-the judgment, was not
included interest, which'
warranted by the judgment, because itwas not given by the judgment. The execution was illegal, and
the bond giyen after it Had issued, was void.
3. 'Refusing to, quash the bond, and leaving it in force as forfeitdd, was a final judgment on which a. writ of'error will lie.
What does the 'record bring up for revision? The whole
case- the original'judgment: this is so from-the nature of the
proceeding. The forfeited bond is 'a, proceeding by statute: it is
made a statutory judgment. It must, therefore, conform to the
39
2c2

SUPREME COURT.
[Amis v. Smith.]

statute, and to do so, it must be founded on a lawful execution,
and a valid judgment. Take away that judgment, the foundation, and all the rest falls. This is settled in 7 Cranch, 288;
5 Howard's Rep. 191, 192, 194, 195. Hence it is that the act
of the legislature, of 1837, was necessary. Without that act
the original ,judgment could have been taken up to a Court of
Error, and reversed; and that reversal would have put an end
to the proceedings under it. Bank of the United States v. Patton,
5 Howard, 223; 1 Howard, 98.
2. And then the question arises as to. the effect of the act of
1837, in the Courts of the United States. How can any legislation in Mississippi affect or limit the jurisdiction of the Courts of
the United States? Suppose the legislature of Mississippi had
said there should be no appeal in any case, or, as in the Digest,
538, without a certificate of the appellate Court; that could
not affect the jurisdiction of the Courts of the United States, or
take away from a suitor in these C9urts rights expressly conferred
by the laws of the United States. It would defeat the object of
the Constitution in giving jurisdiction to the Courts of the United
States.
3. The original judgment, is, then, here for revision, as in the
case- in 7 Cranch, 202. How far is it examinable? For what
errors is it responsible? Upon this point Mr. Key cited 7 Cranch,
202; -1 Peters, 46.
4. It is then, upon authority, error for which judgment can be
arrested, as is said by Judge Washington, in 7 Cranch, 202; and
if so, it is revisable. That case is decisive ; for it adjudges that
the plaintiff must proceed as far as the law allows against all the
defendants, even when all were not taken; ? fortiori, where
they were taken, and when the other defendants had a right to
expect the plaintiff would go on against all.
'This is the law, unless there is something in the laws of Mississippi .which operates in a Court of the United States, and
allows a discontinuance.
The law of Mississippi allows contracts to be sued upon either
as joint or seveial. This should not extend beyond the actual
provisions of the statute to authorize suits to be so brought on
such contracts. 3 Howard, 83. But when the suit is brought,
and the parties are before the Court, then it is altogether another

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

307

[Amis v. Smith.]
question whether you can discontinue as to any of the defendants. Cited, Digest of the Laws of Mississippi;595, 596; 2 Howard, 870; 5 Howard, 411, 412; 3 Howard, 78; 4 Howard, 364,
369, 377.
Mr. Walker, for the defendant in error, made the following
points:
That the severance in the pleading was discretionary with the
Court below, as every other interlocutory incidental order preceding the judgment, and furnished no ground to reverse the
judgment' for error. After a severance in the .pleadings by the
defendants, a discontinuance as to any one of th~m is not irregular. In this case the severance was by consent, and so was
the discontinuance as to that party, and simultaneous with this,
and in the same order was the withdrawal of the plea by the
-other defendants, and the judgment by default final against
them. By this withdrawal, after the severance, these defenddnts,
by implication of law and in fact consented to the separate judgment against them. A judgment thus given,has in law the same
effect as a judgment confessed, so as to, release all errors; and
especially where no objection was made in the Court below.
3 Stewart and Porter, 269; 6 Porter, 352, 358; 9 Stewart, 13;
1 Peters, 165. The compulsory non pros. of the English practice
entered by the Court upon the motion of the defendant against
the plaintiff, does not prevail in this country. Such a.non pros.
which puts the whole case out of Court, is entirely unlike the
discontinuance under our practice; which in this case is a mere
partial forbearance for the present to proceed further in the suit
against one of the defendants, and leaves the case in Court to
proceed*regularly against the other defendants. Note to Powell
v. White, Douglass, "169; 1 Peters, 46, 74, 469; -5 Peters, 476;
6 Peters, 598; 3.Hfoward, 598. This discontinuance as to.one
defendant may be taken, even where both plead separately to the
merits. -1 Peters, 46; 5 Johns. 160; 20 Johns. 1-26; 1 Pick.,500.
Even at common law a plaintiff might always discontinue as to
one defendant, where the cause of action was joint and several
in its nature, or where one or more might be sued separately.
Note to Parker v. Laurence, Hobart, (ed. of 1829,) 177. By the
statutes of Mississippi, this contract is made joint and several,

308

SUPREME COURT.
[Amis v. Smith.]

and a separate suit authorized against any one or more of the
defendants. Howard and Hutchinson's Digest, Laws of Mississippi, 578, 594. Under these statutes, the right to discontinue in
such eases is expressly recognised by the decisions of the Courts
of the state. 2 Howard, 870; 4 Howard, 377. If this -discontinuance had been erroneous, it is cured after verdict by our
statute of jeofails; and a judgment by nil dicit is placed on the
same footing. Howard and Hutchinson, 591; 2 Howard, 834,
902,- 934.
As to the interest, it is allowable on judgments even at common law. 3 Anstruther, 804; 1 Har. and Johns. 755. In Mississippi, this interest is given by statute o the judgment, and
the. execution is required to embrace the interest. Tarner's
Digest, 3i3; Howard and Hutchinson, 375, 616, 622, 623,'626,
627,.628, 653,; 3 Howard, 184; 4 Howard,'377. Even if there
had been error in the original judgment, that error is released by
the.new judgment on the forthcoming bond. Howard and Hutchinson, 541; 4 Howard, 9. The new judgment is an extinguishment of the judgment on which the bond was given, and the bond
operates as an estoppel at law, as to any error in the original judgment.. The bond is a waiver of any error in the original judgment,
and 6perates as a judgment byconsent or confession. 2 Call. 507;
6 Call..1 ; 8 Pick. 386 3 Cond. Rep. 244, 248, 249. The Court
cannot go beyond the execution which is recited in the bond, and
not the judgment preceding the execution;, and the bond admits
the interest ..to be due, and is conclusive. If the execution,
had been erroneous, it should have been superseded' but on 'the
contrary, the validity of the execution is admitted by the bond,
and"by the judgment which is founded upon it. 5 Howard, 566,
573, 574. If the interest was erroneously admitted to be added
to the original judgment, it is a mere clerical error which is cured
by the bond and new judgment upon it. 5 Howard; 200; 1 Howard, 98. .The error alleged, here as to the interest, is at most
equivalent to a motion in the Court below to open the judgmeit
on'the bond. And on what ground? Because it included interest alleged to'be omitted to be calculated in the original judgment. But if this omission were made, it was a mere clerical
error, the interest it is conceded is due by the lAv; it is included
in the bond, signed by the defendant, and -admitted thereby to be

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

309

[Angs v. Smith.4
due the plaintiff, and on that bond.the judgment is entered; and
why should ihe judgment be opened when it is for no greater sum
than in.law and justice was due the plaintiff?
The bond is constitutional. 4 Howard, 363; 5 Howard,434,
456; 4 Condensed Reports, 439, 442.
The forthcoming bond law of the, state applies to judgments
in the Courts of the United States. 1 Cranch, 299. If it'be
adopted in parti must not all its provisions be adopted, and also
the construction given by the State Courts to their local statutes?
By these statutes, the original judgment, is extinguished by the
bond and forfeiture; and it is further specially provided, that no
writ of errbr can be prosecuted as regards the original judgment,.
after the forfeiture of the bond. It is said this provision cann6t
apply here, because the writ of brror is given by act of Congress.
There might be force ii this argument if a motion were now
pending to dismiss the writ of error for wafnt of jurisdiction. N6o
such motion is made, but it is insisted that after a judgmdnt the
defendant has his choice either to arrest the judgment for error,
or to waive that .right and release all errors, as in case of a judgment by confession, by giving the bond; and that such bond is a
voluntary waiver of all such errors, and that this waiver must be
upheld by this Court.
As to the last error assigned, it h.as been eipressly decided by
the Courts of Mississippi, that the bond may be given by one codefendant. 5 Howard, 480, 483.
Mr. Justice MXiNLEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to-the District Court of the United States
for the southern district of Mississippi, exercising Circuit Court
powers.
Smith brought an action of assumpsit against Amis and others,
surviving partners of the Real Estate Banking Company, of Columbus, Mississippi, founded upon their certificate of deposit.
All the defendants joined in a plea of non-assumpsit; and Wright,
one of them, afterwards pleaded the same plea -separately. At
the trial, all'the defendants, except Wright, withdrew their plea,
and permitted judgment to go against them by nil dicit, for the
sum of two thousand five hundred and eighty-four dollars and
seventy-four cents; and the plaintiff then discontinued the suit

$10

SUPREME COURT.
[Amis v.Smit&.]

against Wright. Upon the judgment execution issued, and was
levied, by the marshal, on the property,of Amis, who, in conformity with a. statute of Mississippi, entered into bond, with
security, conditioned for the forthcoming of the property on the
day fixed for its sale. Amis failed to dellvdr the property, according to the condition of the hond to the marshal, who thereupon made return that it was forfeited; which, by the statute,
gave it the force and effect of a judgment. Howard and Hutchinson's Statute Laws of Mississippi, 653.

Amis, at the next term,

moved the Court to quash the bond, which motion was overruled,
and thereupon he prosecuted this suit.
To remove the judgment, he relies on these grounds: First,

TheCourt erred in permitting the plaintiff to discontinue the suitagainst Wright, and in rendering judgment against the other
'defendants. Secondly, The fieri facias was illegal, because it
included interest not authorized by the judgment. Thirdly, Overruling the motion to quash the forthcoming bUnd.-was a final
judgment by the Court. which ought to be reversed."
Whether a discontinuance c the suit can be entered against
one of several defendants in a case arising on contract, depends
upon the character of the contract, and the state of the pleadings
"between"the parties. If the contract be joint and several, and the
defendants sever in. their pleas, whatevxr may have been the
doubts and confficting opinions of former times as to the effect
of a-nolle prosequi in. such a case, it has never been held that a
simple discontinuance of a suit amounted to a retraxit, or that it
in any manner worked a bar to the repetition of the plaintiff's
action.
B- a statute of. Mississippi; all promises, contracts, and liabilities of copartners, are. to be deemed and adjudged joint and
several. And in all suits founded on promises, agreements, orcontracts in writing, by two or more persons as copartners, signed
by one or more of them,6r by any person as aght in their behalf, it shallbe lawful to declare against any one or more of them,
Howard and Hutchinson's Statute Laws of Mississippi, 595.This is such a severance of the contract as pVts it in the power of
the plaintiff to hold any portion of them jointly, and the others
severally bound for the contract. And there is ho obligation on
his part to .put them irl such condition, by his pleadings, -as to

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

311

[Amis v. Smith.]

compel each to contribute his portion for the benefit of the others.
This reduces the inquiry to this simple question: Is the discontinuance, in.this case, authorized bylaw?
In the case of Minor and others against the Mechanic's Bank
of Alexandria, a suit was brought on the office-bonds of the
cashier of the bank, against him and his sureties. The bond was
joint and several, and the defendants pleaded jointly to. the action; and, as in this case, the cashier afterwards pleaded severally, whereupon judgment was rendered against the sureties;
and afterwards the plaintiff entered a nolle prosequi against the
other defendant. This Court sustained this proceeding, and held
that it did not affect the judgment against the sureties. 1 Peters, 46.
That case, we think, is decisive of the first point made in this.
On a joint and several bond, suit must be brought against all the
obligors jointly, or against each one severally, because each is
liable for the whole; but a joint suit cannot be maintained
agaihst a part, omitting the rest. Therd is, therefore, no analogy
between the right of action and the right to enter a nolle prosequi
against one, as was done in that case. In this case, the plaintiff
had a legal -right to sue any number of the joint and several
promisors, and to omit the others; and, therefore, there is a perfect analogy between the right of action and the right to discontinue the action against one, after judgment against the others.
Thus far, the propriety of this judgment is undoubted.
The second point involves a question not cognisable in this
Court. Whatever may be the defects or illegality of the final
process, no error can be assigned here for that cause' The remedy, according to modern' practice, is by motion to the Court
below to quash the executidn. If, however, the question Were
properly before the Court 'we can see no good reason why
interest upon a judgment, which is secured by positive law, is
not as much a part of the judgment as if expressed in it. The
legislature say, "All judgments shUl bear interest at the rate of
eight per cent," Can ihe judgment be satisfied without paying
the interest? It is the practice in Mississippi, and several other
states, to include no interest in the judgment, except what is then
due; but to leave it to the collecting officer to calculate the
amount of interest, according to law. when he- settles with the
defendant.

312

SUPPEME COURT.
[Ami v. Sm t]

The remainingobjection will now be examined. Vf an execution id. issued upon the bond improperly, that.might have been
quashed on motion of the defendant. This leads us to the consideration of the grounds assumed by the counsel of the defendant.
.By a statute of Mississippi, it is enacted thkt, "No writ of error
shall be granted in any case where a forthcoming bond shall have
been given and forfeited '' Howard and Hutchinson, Statute Laws
of Miss. 54i; and the District Judge has, it is s'aid, adopted this provision of the statute, by-rule of Court. This being the local law
of Mississippi, it is contended that this Court is bound by it; and
by the expositions given to it,by the Supieme Court of that state;
and many decisions of that Cdurt have been xeferred to. In the
case of the'Bank of the United States v. Patton, 5 How. Rep..
200, it is held that a fortlicoming bond forfeited is an extinguishment of the original judgment,,and that a writ of error will not
lie to it; and the same doctrine was held in Sanders and others
v. M'Dw*ell, 4 How. Rep. 9.
If these doctrines are to prevail, the act of Congress, authorizing
a writ of error on final judgment, would becoae a dead lettei
and the laws of Mississippi on this subject become the supreme
law in that state. If the forthcoining bond is applicable at all
to the lroceedings of the Courts of the United States,,it must be
in the character of finar process.
B the third section of the act of Congress of the 19th of May,
1-828, it is enacted, "That writs of execution, and other final process issued on judgments and decreed, rendered in any of the
Courts'of the United States, and the proceedings thereupon, shair
,b6 the'same, except their style, in each state respectively, as are
now used in the Courts of such state, saving to the Courts of the
United States in.the "states in which there are not Courts of
Equity with the ordinary equity jurisdiction, the power of prescribing the mode- of executing their decrees in equity byrules
of Court: Provided, however, tht it shall be in the power of the
Courts, if they see fit, ift their discretion, by rules.of Court, so far
to alter final process in said Courts, as to conform the same to
any' hange tht m'ay be adopted by the legislature of the several
states, for the State Courts." 4 Story's Laws United States, 2121.
We think .this sectiofi of the act of 1828, adopted the forthcoming bond in Mississippi, as part of the final process of that

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

s13

[Amis . Smith.]

'state, at the passage of the act. And we understand. by the
phrase, I final process," all the writs of exeeutiri' their in use in
the State Courts. of Mississippi, which were properly applieble
'to the Courts of the United States'; and we understand by the
phrase "the proceedings thereupon" to mean, the exercise of all
the duties of the ministerial officers of the 'states; prescribedi.by
the. laws of the state, for the purpose of obtaining the 'fruits of
judgments, IAnd among these duties is to' be fouxid oneprescribed to the sheriff,,directing him to restoi personal property
levied on, by him, to the defendant, upon his exeduting a forthcoming bond according to law, and the fufther duty to return-it
to the Court, forfeited, if the defendant fail to deliver the property,
on the day of sale, according to the condition of the bond. These
are certainly proceedings upon an execution; afid, therefore,'the
forthcoming bond must be regarded as part of the "final"process.
Ii aids materially in securing the payment of the money to satisfy
the judgment; and it is part of the process by which the plaintiff
is enabled to obtain tfie payment of the money secured to him by
the judgment.
I But is this forthcoming bond a judgment as well as process?
The statute declares that it shall have the force 'and effect of a
judgment, simply, that an execution may issue up.on it against
the surety as well as the principal, and for all the costs incurred
after the judgment. The same effect would have been produced,
if the statute bad directed execution to issue upon the forthcoming
bond, without giving it the force and offect of a-judgment. -The*
proceeding which produced this bond was purely ministerial; the
judicial mind was, in no way, empfoyed in its production. It
does not then possess the attributes of a judgment, and ought,
therefore, to be treated in this Court as final process, or, at ledst,
as part of the final process. With all due respect for the judicial
decisions of State Courts, we cannot concede to those of Mississippi all that is claimed for them in this case . As far as they
settle rules of property, they will be propbrly respected by this
Court. But when the effect of a state decision i only to regulate
the practice of i ourts, and to determine what shall be a judgment,
and the legal effect of that, or any other judghment, thisCourt cannot consider thenselves bound by such decisions, upon the ground
that the laws upon 2hich they are made are local in their cha40
VOL. XVI.-2 D

314

SUPREME COURT.
[Ainis v. Smith.]

racter. It is the duty of this C6urt, by their decisions, to preserve
the 'supremacy of the laws of the United States, which they cannot do without- disregarding, all state laws and state decisions
which conflict w"ith the laws of the United States.
. In exercising the power conferred upon t1 Circuit Courts of the
United States, by the third section of the act of 1828, authorizing
them to alter final process, so far as to conform it to any change
which may be adopted by the legislatures of the respective states,
for the State Courts; there is the same danger to be apprehended
as from state legislation, and state adjudications on the same subject. And therefore no rule ought to be made without 'the concurrence of the Circuit Judge. No rule made by a District
Judge will therefore-be recognised by this Court as binding,
except those made by District Courts exercising Circuit Court
powers. The statute of Mississippi taking away the right to a
writ of error, in the case of a forthcoming bond forfeited, can
have no influence whatever in regulating writs of error to the
Circuit Courts of the United States; a rule of Court adopting the
statute as a rule of practice would, therefore, be void.
Regarding the forthcoming bond as part of the process of execution, a refusal to quash the bond is not a judgment of the Court,
and much less is it oL final judgment; and, therefore, no, writ of
error lies in such a case. 6 Peters, 648. But, in this case, the
writ of error is not to the supposed judgment, in refusing to quash
the forthcoming bond, .but to the principal judgment. It fas
been sued out and prosecuted by one of several joint defendants;
and without asking that the other defendants should be summoned and served; the defendant in error has, however, appeared and defended the suit, and thereby waived the irregularity. But one error has been assigned to the judgment of the
Cpurt, the other two apply to the final process. The judgment
of the Court below must therefore be affirmed for the reasons
- here stated.

