JANUARY TERMj 1842.

JAMES. ROACH, ADi2INISTRATOR OF PHILIP ROACH, PLAINTIFF
IN ERROR, V. DAVID W. HULINGS, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
The jury, in rendering their verdict, failed to respond separately to the distinct issues
they were sworn to try. The defendant had pleaded three pleas: 1. Covenants
performQd. 2. Payment.. 3. Set-off; greater in amount than the claim of the plaintiff On these three pleas the jury gave a general verdict of damages in favour of the
plaintiff, on'which judgment was entered. In the Circuit Court, no exception was
taken to the verdict. The counsel for the plaintiff contended that this was error in
the Circuit Court, which was properly to be corrected in the Supreme Court. By
the Court. Objdections of this character, that are neither taken at the usual stage of the
proceedings, nor prominently presented on the face of the record, but which may be
an apparent waiver of -them 'by his adversary, and still
sprung upon a party after
more after a trial on the merits, can have no claim to the favour of the Court; but
should be entertained in obedience only to the strict requirements of the law. The
three issues were joined on affirmative allegations by the defendant, and the vefflict
was for the plaintiff on these issues. Admitting that this verdict is not affirmatively
resjonsive to these-issufs, it virtually answers and negatives them all; for if all or
either of them had.been untrue, the verdict was untrue. Should the judgment, then,
be arrested, this would be done-neither from a necessity to guard the merits of the
controversy, nor from the principles of sound inductive reasoning; but solely in
obedience to an artificial and-technical rule, which, however it may be founded in
wisdom and promotive of good in general, yet, like all other rules, is cpable of pro.ducing evil when made to operate beyond the objects of its creation.
The third section of the act of Congress of 1789 to establish tHe judicial, Courts of the
United States, which provides that no summary writ, return of process, judgment,
or other proceedings in civil cases in the Courts of the United States, shall be
abated, arrested, or quashed far any defect or want of form, &c., although it does
not -include verdicts, eo nomine, baot judgments are; and the language of the provi.
sion," w)it, declaration, judgment, or other proceedings in civil causes ;" and further,
"such writ, declaration, pleading/process, judgment, or other proceeding whatsoever," is sufficiently comprehensive to embrace every conceivable step to be taken
ina cause, from the emanation of the writ down to the judgment. Both the verdidt
and the judgment in this case are within the terms and intent of the statute, and
ought to be protected thereby.
In trials at law, while it is invariably true that decisions on the weight of the evidence
belongs exclusively to the jnry, it is equally true that whenever instructions upon
evidence are asked from the Court to the jury, it is the right and duty of the former
to judge of the relevancy, and, by necessary implication to some extent, upon the
certainty and definiteness of the evidence proposed. Irrelevant, impertinent, orinimaterial statements, a Court cannot be called-upon to admit as the groundwork of instructions; it is bound to take care that the evidence on which it shall be called upon
to act is legal, and that it conduces to the issue on behalf of either the plaintiff or the
defendant,

SUPREMRICQURT.

3

fRoachtt. Hulings.]

IN error to the Circuit Court of the-United Statesfor the county
of Washin&.o,

in the district of Columbia.

.The defendant in error inatituted an action of covenant, n the
Circuit Court of the'county, of Washington, again st Philip Roach,
upon, certain aricles of covenant. Before the trial of the. cause,
tIe defeodaut die#, and his 'dminintrator became the defendant
in the suit, a verdict and judgment were rendered for the plain
tiff, and the defendant prosecuted this writ of error.
The case, is -tully stated. 'in the opinion of the Court. It was
argued by Mr. Brint, the younger, for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr., Bradley, for the defendant..
MXr..dstice DAmzLs delivere'd the opinion-ofthe Court.
This case comes up on-awrit-of error to*the Circuit Court of
Washingon coirnty, in the district of oliiumbia. It appears from
the' record, -that Philip Roafh, the plaintiff's intestate,, having
contracted by agreemeit ift writing on the 3d day of April, 1829,
with' ofie Samuel Davidson, for the workmanship to be performed
in the contruction of a lock describMd.'as the outlet lock at a
place, called Lewistown.-did, on:the 27th of April, in the same
year penter into a covenant with Hulings, the defendant in error,
in which it was agreed that the defendant should supply'all the,
timber, plank, and bloard&, requiredin building this lock, at prices
stipulated in. the said covenant, to be puid by the plaintiff's intestate. On the 13th of March,' 1837, an action'of covenant was
instituied by Hulings in the Circuit Court of Washington county
against Philip Roach, to recoyer the value of the timber,'platlk,
&c., alleged to hae been furnished by tho former,'in performance
of the contract. The covenant is by,profert made a part of
the
anount.
showing'the
is
filed,
(B),
exhibit
account,
An
record.
arid,value of the materials for which compensation is claimed;
also the deposition of a witness, Samuel Davidson, to prove the
justice of this account. Philip Roach hiving died' after appearance to the suit, process was directed against his representative;
and the defendant having subsequently appeared as administrator
of the deceased, filed 1st, the pleas of covenants performed, and
payment by his intestate; and next the plea of set-off of an

IAXUARY TERM;'442.

3A1

(Roach v. Hulig.]

alleged debt of three thousand dollars due to thi intestate in his
lifetime, and greater in amount than the damages claimed by the
plaintiff. On these three pleas, issues were joined.; and the juiy
rendered a general verdict in .damages for the -plaintiff. , The
questions of'law decided by the Court below, and. now presented
,for r1yiew here, arise upon two bills of exception sealed by the
Judget of the Circuit Court, and made parts of. the record. But
before. going ito. an examination of these questions, it is proper
to dvert to a point which was Aleither suggested nor decided in
the Circuit Court, but which has bee 'urged for the first time by
the 'counsel for the plaintiff in error before this Court., The point
thus raised and pressed by counsel is the following: that the
jury, in rendering their verdict, failed to respond separately
to the distinct issues they were sworn to try; atnd that this
failure by the jury constitutes an error for which the juidgment of
the Circuit Court should be arrested. Objectibs of this character,
that'are neither taken at the usual stage of the.proceedings, nor
prominently 'presented upon the face of the. record, but which
may be sprung upon a, party after an apparent waiver of them
by his'adversary, and still more after a trial upon the merits, can.
have neleaim to the favojr of the Court; but should.be entertined
in 6bediehce only to the -strictest requirements'of the law. Let
us see ho "far in the present instande the Court is controlled by
any such, absolute and inflexible authority. The three issues
were joined upon affirmative allegations by' the defendant: -st,
That his intestate had performed, his covenant: 2d, That he had
paid whatever was due the plaintiff: and 3d, That the defendant
pbssessed in right of his intestate a claim against the plaintiff,
greater in amount tha the plaintiff's demand against him. Upon
these affirmative averments, the jury find-a verdict for the plaintiff. Admifting that.this Verdict is not technically responsive to
the several Tleas, it virtually ansvers and negatives them all;
(for if all br either of the pleas had been true, the veidict was untrue. Should the judgment then be arrested, this would be done
neither from a necessity to guard the merits of the controversy,
no from the principles of sound inductive reasoning; but solely
in obedience to an artificial and. technical rule, which, however
it may be founded in wisdom, and- be promotive of gdod in general, yet, like all other rules, is capable of 'producing evil when
41

-

SUPREME COURT.
[Roach t. Huuing.]

made to operate beyond the objects of its creation. It was to
prevent the mischiefs ensuing from a misapplied rigour that statutes of jeofails have been enactect, and their salutary influence
is invoked whenever the intrinsic-merits of parties litigant would,
without that influence, be sacrificed to mere modes and forms of
practice. By the thirty-second section of the act to establish the
judicial Courts of the United States, it is provided, "1That no summons, writ, return, process, judgment, or other proceedings in
civil causes in any of the Courts of the United States, shall be
abated, arrested, quashed or reversed, for any defect or want of
form, but the said Courts respectively shall proceed and give
judgment according as the right of the cause and matter in law
shall appear to them, without regarding any imperfections,.defects, or want of form in such writ, declaration, or other pleading,
return, process, judgment, or course of proceeding whatsoever,
except those only in cases of demurrer, which the party demurring shall specially set down and express togethdr with his
,demurrer as the cause thereof." It is true that a verdict, eo nomine., is not comprised within this provision of the statute, but
judgments are: and the language of the provision, "writ, declaration, judgment, or other proceedings in civil causes," and
fdrther, "such writ, declaration, pleading, process, judgment, or
other proceeding whatsoever," is sufficiently comprehensive to
embrace every conceivable step to be taken in a cause, from the
emanation of the writ down to the judgment. The Court have
shown that the proceedings in mis cause were according to the
right of the case, that they brought into view the real merits of
the parties litigant before the jury; they therefore consider both
the verdict and judgment are within the terms and intent of the
statute, and ought to be protected thereby.
The first bill of exceptions states, that the plaintiff having introduced his proofs, the defendant then gave evidence that in the
spring of- 1831 the plaintiff stated to the witness that he had just
settledwith Philip Roach, (the defendant's intestate,) all his private
accounts, as well as an account of one Davidson against said
Roach, and had been paid the same except five hundred dollars,
for which he had Roach's due-bill or note, payable on demand, but
the witness was uncertain whether the plaintiff said it was a duebill or note: and further stated that hG and Roach were going to

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

323

[Roach v. HUig]"

Washington where Roach had provided to pay said due-bill or
note. And the defendant further proved, that about thie time of
this statement b'y plaintiff, Roach drevi out bf a partnership a
considerable sum of money for his. own use; whereupon the
defendant moved the Court to instruct- the jury, "That if they
believed the account in suit was settled by a due-bill or note
given by defendant's intestate to the plaintiff, then the presumption is that the said due-bill or note had been paid;" and afterwards further prayed the Court to instruct the jury, ".That if the
jury believe from the evidence, that the defendant's intestate, in
the'spring of 1831, closed the 4ccount, in suit, by giving to the
plaintiff his due-bill or note payable-on demand, and that immediately afterwards the plaintiff with Ihilip Roach came to Washington for the purpose of receiving the money for the said duebill or note; that about the time of said visit to Washington, a
considerable sum of money was withdrawn by said Roach, from
a partnership in which 6aid Roach was engaged with Patrick
Donelly, in consequence of which Donelly abandoned the partnership; thdn the jury may presume from the above facts, and from
the non-production of the due-bill or note by the plaintiff, no
account being given by the plaintiff of said bill or note, that the
sarae was paid and delivered to the said Philip Roach, and by.
him destroyed ;" but the Court refused, &c.
In trials at law, whilst it is invariably true that the decision of
questions upon the weight of the'evidence belongs.exclusively to
the jury, it is equally true, that wherever instructions upon evidence are asked from thi' Court to thp jury, it is the right and duty
of the former to judge of the relevancy and, by necessary implication, to some extent, upon the certainty br defifiiteness of the evidence proposed. Irrelevant, impertinent,'orimmaterial statements,
a Court cannot be called upon -o admit as the groundwork of instructions; it is bound to take care that the evidence on which it
shall be called to act, is legal; and that it conduces to the issue on.
behalf either of the plaintiff or of t1.e defendant. To apply these
principles to the case under review.-The purpose of the defendant below was .tI show, that the demand of the -plaintiff,if origwally well founded, had been paid by the execution of a note
y. 'the testator of the defendant, which note had been -subsequently satisfied, surrendered to thie maker, and by him destroyed.

324'

SUPREME COURT.

And vhat was the evidence introduced to establish these conclusions ? The statement by a witness of a conversation between
himself and the plaintiff in 1831, wherein it was stated, amongst
other things, by the former, that he had settled all. his private
accounts; as well as on account of one Davidson, against said
Roach, and had been paid the same, except five hundred dollars,
for which he-'had Roacbs due-bill or notb payable 'on demand,
but the witness was uncertain whethdr the'plaintiff said it was a
due-bill or note; and further said that he and Roach were going
to Washington, where Roach had promised to' pay saia due-bill
or note: and further, that about this time Roach drew out of a
partnership a considerable sum of.money for his own uses.
Now, the first thing which strikes the attention with respect to
the iestimony of the witness is, that he does noi prove with
certainty, if at allj' the existence of any instrument whatsoever:
he saw none, and cannot give a clear and certain description of
it as reported to. him by the plaintiff: he does not know whether
it was a due-bill or a note. In the next place, the witness does
not disclose whether this note 6r due-bill, or vhatever it may
have been, was given for the benefit of Davidson, or for that of
the plaintiff; for we are told that the plaintiff professed to have
settled with Roach his own private accounts, as'well as on account of one Davidson. Now, although there was a contract
'between. Roach and one Davidson, for the building of the outlet
lock, yet there is nothing in the plaintiff's, contract with Roach,
nor any proof in the reco-d, which connects the plaintiff, or his
undertaking, or the obligations of Roach to him, with any transaction between Davidson and Roach. Then,.'when the plaintiff is
represented as speaking of a settlement with Roach on account
of Davidson, distinguishing it at the same time from a settlement
of his own private account, and as speaking of a note or due-bill
taken upon these settlements, it would be as regular to presume
that such note or due-bill, (if it were practicable to, conjecture
which it was,) belonged as much to the one settlement as the
other. Upon these loose statements the Court were asled to
instruct the jury, that if they believed the account in suit -was
settled by a due-bill or note given by the defendant's intestate
to the plaintiff, then the presumption is, that the said due-bill or
note has been paid. And further, that if they believed from the

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

325

ERoach v. Hurings.?
same evidence, mat the defendant's intestate, in 1831, closed the
account in suit, by giving to the plaintiff his due-bill or note,
payable on demand, and that immediately afterwards;.the plaintiff with Philip Roach came to Washington for the purpose of
receiving from Philip Roach the money for said due-bill or note;
and-that money'was drawn by said Roach from a partnership in
which he was engaged.; then* the jury may presume from the
above facts, and the non-production of the due-bill or note by
the plaintiff, (no account being given by the plaintiff of the said
due-bill or note,) that the same was paid, and delivered to the
said Philip Roach, and by him destroyea, &c. The propositions
which the Court were here required to affirm, so, far.-from following as regular or allowable inferences from the evidence, appear
to be in nowise dependent upon it. No witness had proved so
much as theexistence of any particular writing *hats6ever; much
lessthat of an obligation payable to the plaintiff, and in his own
interest and behalf. How, then, could- the jury, with any propriety, be directed to presume, not only the exiscence of such an
obligation, but also its discharge; and, in addition to these facts,
its actual surrender to, and destruction by the defendant's intestate; thereby relieving him from all the presumptions naturally
arising, against a party from the non-prodtiction of a document,
whenever the custody !hereof is brought home to him, either by
direct or circumstantial proofs. Almost any other propositions
which can be imagined could with as much regularity have been
required from the Court as instnctions to the jury, as those which
the Court was requested to affirm.
The cases of Swift v. Stevens from 8 Pick. 43r; and of Freeman and Another v. Boynton, from 7 Mass. Rep. 483, have been
relied on in argument for the plaintiff in error. Any influence
of these cases' in: favour of the plaintiff, the Court is unable to
perceive. The formerwas an action upon a lost promissory note;
txje latter was also an action upon'a note, in which the questi6n
of diligence was chiefly involved. In these cases the only points
ruled which seem to have any affinity with this case, were that in
the first, the-existence at one period and thb subsequent loss or.
destruction of the note was required to be clearly shown; an. in
the second it was decided that, as a general rule, the deniand
for payment of a note must be accompanied with the possession
VOL. XVI.--2 E

SJW

SUPREME COURT."
[Roach v. HuI~ibgs.

•I
the note. Accordingly, in, the case from 8 Pick., the existence and'subsequent'loss of the note Were established by a disin.terested depositary with whom it'.ad been lodged. These cases
*ere rwiled, anid most pro*perlr go, upon the principle that a debtor,
when Ie
makes payment, shall eceive the best allowable prolectian against a repetition of the same demand upon him, viz.:
his'bond or, his note 'wheneither has been-given. The cases of
C, k v.Young and Company, 1 Cranch, 181 ; of Harris v. Johnson,.3 Cranch, 311; and of Morgan -&Reintzel,' 7 Cranch, 273,
all turn upon the same. principle. In the plaintiff's first bill of
exceptions the evidence tendered is vague',and confused; it establishes nothing pertinent to the point raised, and does not warrant,
as a legitimate conclusion from it, the instruction asked for. 'The.
Court, therefore, prdperIy denied thit instruction.
In the secon4 bill of exceptions 'the Court ig asked to instinct
the jury thai, should they be of .opinion, from the said evidence,
that Philip Roach made and delivered his negotiable note payable on demand- to the plaintiff for the balance due him on a
final settlement of all accounts, that the plaintiffcannot iecover,
uless he has produced the said note, or proved that the same
was lost, r that the same was'cancelled, &c. This bill of exceptions may be. disposed of in very-few words. The instruction it
prays for purports to be founded upon the evidence cbntamed in
theformer bill; 'and ft'a.ks, that if he jury shall, believe, upon
tb evidence, that Philip'Rach did execute and ,el1ver to the
plaintiffhis negotiable note payable ondemand, then, &c., 'Now,
in the evidence referred to, there is not one word'contained.irelative to a negotiable note made and delivered by Philip Roach(to
the plaintiff, or to any other person. It would have been impro.per for, the 'jury to have embraced in their' contemplation or
belief any thing cori'erning -a negotiable note; and improper for
the- Court to have given them my inStruction-concerning ' dowu,.
,ment which'was not in the dause, and about which not a tittle of
evidence was adduced from any quarter. ,Inrefusing the instruc-,
tlions a ked for,, as set forth in this second bill, the Circuit Court
have also decided correctly; and this Court, approving its decision upon both the points adjudged by it, doth affirm the judgment of the Circuif Court.

