JANUARY TER.U, 1842.

WILLIA:K H. FRESH,PLAINTIPF IN ERROR, V. RIAH GILSON, CERISTOPHER MIDLAR, AND JAImEs FRESH, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
Liability for the acts of others may be created either by a airect authority given for their
performance, or it may flow from their adoption, in some instances from acquiescence
in those acts. But presumptions can stand only whilst they are compatible with the
conduct of those to whom it may be sought to apply them; and mUst still more giyo
place when in conflict with clear, distinct, and convincing proof.
The Circuit Court of the District of Columbia admitted as evidence a statement by one
witness'of what had been" testified by another on the trial of a cause, to which the
plaintiff in the cause and against whom the evidence was to operate, was not a party.
Held that this was error. Wherever the rights of a party, founded upon a deed, are
dependent on the terms and conditions of that deed, the instrument thus crating
and defining those rights mubt be resorted to; and must Tegulate, moreover, the modes
by, which they are to be enforced at -law. These identical rights cannot be claimed
as being derived from a different and inferior source. If the deed be in force, all who
claim by its provisions must resort to it.
When the contract contained in a deed .has been varied or snbstitited by the subsequent
acts or agreements of the parties, thereby giving rise to new relations'between them,
the remedies, orig'nally arising out of the deed, may be varied in conformity with
them. An action upon the deed would hot be insued upon, or permitted, because
the rights and obligations of the parties to the suit would depend on a state of things
by which the depd had been put aside.

IN,error to the Circuit Court of the United.States, for Washin&ton cOdunty, in the District of Columbia.
This case was argued by Mr. Brent, junior, for the plaintiff in
error; and by Mr. Bradley, for the defendants.
Mr. Justice DA IE.L delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case arises under the attachment law of the state of Maryland, passed in 1795; and comes before this Court upon a writ of
error to the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, for Wash-

ington county; within which the law of Maryland above mentioned is in force.
The proceedings iustituted in this case,
although commencing by an attachment, and upon what is
termed a.short note in lieu of a formal declaration, assume, nevertheless, the essential character, and in some respects the usual
forms of the action of. assumpsit, and Must be governed by the

328

SUPREME COURT.
[Fresh v. Gilson et al.]

rules applicable lo such an action. The defendants dissolved the
attachment by appearing and entering special bail, and pleading
"non-assumpsit;" and upon the issue made up on this plea, the
cause was tried in the Circuit Court.
Upon the trial, exceptions were taken n five separate instances
to the rulings of the Circuit Court, and in each of them the exception sealed by the judges is made a part of the record. To
test the accuracy both of the decisions thus pronounced, and of
the objections alleged against them, it will be necessary to advert
to the facts adduced in proof.
It appears that on the 23d of August, 1832, the defendant in
error entered into a covenant with the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, for certain rates and prices stipulated in a covenant
sealed between the defendant and the company by their president, and in a specification appended to the said covenant, to
construct in a substantial and workmanlike manner, culvert
No. 116, on the 150th section of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal;
and to prosecute the work upon the said culvert without intermission, with such force as should in the opinion of the resident
engineer secure its completion by the first day of August, 1833.
On the third-day of November, 1832, a covenant was entered
.into between the plaintiff in error and the defendants, or rather
with Riah Gilson, one of the defendants, styling himself superintendent for- Gisbn and Company, by which the construction
of the culvert No. 116 was let to the plaintiff, at the contract
prices to be paid by the company for the work; with the exception that Fresh should pay to the defendants, from whom he took
this contract, the sum of one hundred dollars i which sum appears
to have been a profit reserved to themselves by the first contractors upon the transfer of their undertaking. In this Becond covenant, the plaintiff in error bound himself "to be urgent in the
performance of the work, so that it might progress in accordance
with the specification and directions of the engineers." And
further, that in the event of neglect or failure on his part; the
defendants should have authority to declare the work abandoned,
to assume the direction, and to complete it at the plaintiff's expense. - Having thus obtained a contract under the .defendants,
the plaintiff, on the second day of May, 1833, made an agreement with Elijah Baret for building of this culvert, by the latter;

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

329

[Fresh v. Gilson et al.]
stipulating to pay Barret the price of one dollar twelve and a
half cents for every perch of stone work 'f twenty-five cubic
feet, upon a certificate and approval of the engineer or superintendent of masonry as to the fidelity of the work. The plaintiff
on the trial offered these several contracts in evidence; afso an
account against the defendant stated, on the 24th of December,
1833, for masonry, excavation, and paving performed, and for
cement not supplied by the plaintiff in the construction of culvert
116; on which account, after allowing a credit of one thousand
one hundred and forty-two dollars and seventy-three cents, a
balance of one thousand three nundred and forty-three dollars
and one cent was claimed. This was the account on which the
warrant of attachment issued. The plaintiff further proved the
delivery of the letter dated December 25th, 1833, addressed by
him to Wells the agent of the defendant, in which he required a
statement of his account with them, ana expressly forbade the
payment to Elijah Barret of any amount whatever.
The defendants, to rebut the plaintiff's iemand, offered the
account, exhibit (C), commencing December 5th, 1832, and terYinating the 21st of December, 1833, amounting to the sum of
one thousand three hundred and sixty-nine dollars and thirty-six
cents; and proved by their clerk that the work on the said culvert
was completed on the 21st of December, 1833, and that -the account last mentioned was received by the plaintiff without objection except as to the quantity of cement charged therein. The
defendants likewise offered in evidence several orders, numbered
from 1 to 7, drawn by Elijah Barret, by himself and his agents,
in favour of William Harris, upon the defendants, at different
periods, during the autumn aid winter of 1833, and claimed the
benebt of them as payments to the plaintiff. These orders purport to have been paid all on the same day, viz., April 29th, 1835,
rather more than two years posterior to the date of the letter delivered to the defendant's agent, positively forbidding any payment to be made to-Barret or to his order, and nearly one month
after the institution of this suit. And it is admitted that the
orders were never shown to the plaintiff, nor exi-ressly recognised
by him at any time. The defendant offered seven other papers
purporting to be orders and due-bills signed and certified by
Elisha Barret, in November and December, 1833; three of them
2E2
42

330

SUPREME COURT
(Fresh v. Gilson et a.]

said-to be fot work done upon culvert No. 116i and amounting
in the whole to two hundred and seventy-three dollars and fifty
cents; these last orders and certificates, it is also admitted, were
never shown fo the plaintiff, nor acknowledged by him, and it
does pot appear that they .have ever been paid. Oral testimony
was also introduced on the-part of tne defendants, in order to
show that the work had been abandoned by the plaintiff, and its
completion assumed and acdomplished by the defendants; and
on the part of the plaintiff, like evidence was offered -to prove
that he continued on the'work and laboured on it until-it was
finished on the 2.1st of December, 1833.
Upon the foregoing state of facts, the counsel for the plaintiff
moved the Court to exclude from the jury the orders drawn by
Barret in favour of Harris, as well as the evidence offered to
prove the payment of those orders in April, 1835, more tian two
years after their payment had been forbidden by the plaintiff: the
Court admitted this evidence to go to the jury, and this produces
the question presented by the first bill of exceptions.
We are unable to perceive upon what correct legal 'principle this
question was ruled as it has been by the Circuit Court. There is no
express power apparent inthe recordnorindeedwas any attempted
to be shown in the .proofs, existing in Barret to bind Fresh for
any amount with any person. It is true, that under the contract
between them, the former would have had a claim on his own
behalf, whenever he should have fulfilled his undertaking; but
not even then until he should have procured a certificate from the
engineer of the company. But the right or claim he would then
have acquired, differs essentially from the pretension sanctioned
by the decision of the Court, which amounts to an evasion of the
stipulated test *ofhis own conduct and his own rights, and to a
claim by that very evasion to bind his employer ad libitum to any
amount and to any person. 'Nor is it perceived that the admission of these orders was warranted by any presumption arising
from the fact that orders previously dzawn by the same person
were comprised in the account proved to have been presented by
Fresh; and not objected to by him, except as to the quantity of
'cement charged therein. Liability for the acts of others may'be
created either by -a direct authority given fgr their peformance,
or it may flow from their adoption. ol, in some -instancew, from

JM4XUARY TE1RM, 1842

331-

fFmeh v. Gilson et al.]

acquiescence in those acts. But presumptioii calL stand inly
whilst they are compatible with the conduct of tfbise-to whomni it
may be sought to apply them; and still more must give place
when in conflict with clear, distinct, and convincing proof.' 3Bat,
Abr. 318, (H) P resumptive proof; 4 Starkie's Evidence,53. The
letter of the plaintiff Fresh, delivered to the agent of the defendants more than two years anterior to the alleged. pa.yment of the
orders drawn by Barret, fully accords Vith the, cha-ater " of the
proof just described; it justified no presumption of right or- authority in Barret to make, nor of any obligation upon the 'defendcants to pay those drafts; and the Circuit Court therefore erred
in permitting them to be given as evidence; instead of excluding
them wholly from the jury.
The next question arises upon*the -admissibility of the second
series -of orders and certificates or due-bills" signed-by Barret.
amounting together to Three hundred and seventy-two- dollais and
fifty cents, embraced in the second bill of exceptions. These
orders are obnoxious.to even stronger objections than those existing against the former orders drawn by Barrt; "theynot only,
like the former, were never (as is'admitted) shown to or acknowledged by the plaintiff, but they carry on their face, no receipt nor
other semblance of payment, nor is proof attempted alimide, that
the defendants have given, or are bound to give, any consideration for them. The Circuit Court should have excluded these
,papers also.
It is next stated that in addition to the evidence previousli
introduced by the defendants, they offered to prove by a.competent witness, that at the trial of a cause bromght byone Hammond against two of the defendants, and to which the'plaintiff
was not a party, certain facts were proved, by a witness examined
in that cause. The plaintiff asked the exclusion of this testimony
by the Court, but his motion was denied; and this denial presefits
the point upon the third bill of exceptions. The'evidence let'in
by this decision of the Circuit Court was not the exhibition of a
record, nor even of a judgment, nor of process; 'but smply a
statement by one witness of what had been testifiea by another,
on the trial of a cause to which the plaintiff was not a party,
without an attempt to account for the absence of the person
whose testimony was thus given at second hand. The principles,

332

SUPREME COURT.
[Fresh v. Gilso et al]

-

that the best evidence the nature of the case admits of must
always be, produced, and that a person shall not be affected by
that which is res inter alios acta, are too fniliar to require authorities to support them. We wil mention, however, as applicable to these points, 3 Bac. Abr. 392 (I); 3 East, 192; 2 Wash.
287; 5 Cranch, 14; 1 Starkie's Ev. 58,59. But familiar as these
principles may be as rudiments of the law, they are elements
which enter essentially into the security of life, character, and
property. The Circuit Court in conflicting with these principles
have further erred.
In the fourth bill of exceptions it is stated,'thaf defendants offered to prove that Riah -Gilson and Christopher Midlar, two
of the defendants, superintended the perforniance of the work on
the culvert No. 116, and that their. superintendence Was worth
one hundred and fifty dollars. That to the admissibility of this
proof, the plaintiff objected, but the Court permitted it to be received: The questions here raised, or rather the facts which make
the basis of those questions, are somewhat vaguely and imper-fectly stated. Enough however can be gathered from them to
justify the following conclusions. 1st, That by the written contract"between the plaintiff and the defendant, or by any oral
agreement attempted to be shown between these. parties, there
is no condition established authorizing or requiring the defendants
to become the supervisors of the plaintiff in the performance of
his vork. 2d, That if the defendants have performed the work
either in fulfilment of their original contract with the Canal Company, or' in consequenc6 of an abandonment by the plaintiff, a
charge for superintendence would appear inconsistent with the'
position they would have occupied in either view. Such a claim
is therefore regarded as irregular and unauthorized, and should
have been excluded.
Upon the fifth and final> bill of exceptions, it is in substance
set forth, that the'plaintiff having given in evidence the contract
between the Canal Company and the defendants, and the contract
under the seals of the plaintiff and Riah Gilson, one of the
defendants; the latter offered their account against the plaintiff,
and proof that the culvert No. 116, was not completed until after
the 1st of August, 1833, the period designated in the original contract with the company. The plaintiff then offered evidence to

JANUARY TEIEM, 1842.

333

[Fresh t. Gilson et aL.]

show that the work was carried on until the 21st of December,
18331 at which date it was completed, and afterwards accepted
formally and expressly by the company. And the defendants
offered oral evidence to prove that the work had been abandoned
by the plaintiffs, and was finished by the defendants. Then follow the instructions moved for and granted, in the following
term. The defendant then prayed the Court to instruct the jury
that "If from the evidence the jury shall find, that there was an
agreement under seal between the said plaintiff and the defendant, for the execution of the work and labour for which this action
was brought, the plaintiff is not entitled to recover in this action;"
and further, that "If from the evidence the jury. shall find, that
the said plaintiff performed the work and labour for which this
action is brought under a sealed agreement between the staid
plaintiff and Riah Gilson, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover in this action;" to the granting of which two "instructions
unless qualified, the plaintiff objected; but the Court overruled the
objection, and gave the said instructions as prayed."
Had the ruling of the Circuit Court in this instance been limitect
to an affirmance of the second proposition insisted on by the defendants, this Court could not hesitate in sustaining the decision:
for we hold it as invariably true, that wherever the rights of a
party founded upon a deed are dependent upon the terms and
conditions of that deed, the instrument thus creating and, defining
those rights must be resorted to, and must regulate, moreover, the
modes by which they are to be enforced at law. These identical
rights cannot be claimed as being derived from a different and an
inferior source. If the deed be in force, all who claim by its provisions must resort to it. This is regarded as a canon of the law,
and numerous authorities might be adduced to sustain it, both
from compilations and from the adjudged cases. 2 Bac. Abr.
title Debt, letter (G), citing 13 H. 4, 1, and Roll. Abr. 604, 1 Chitty's Pleading, 75; 4 Bbs. & Pull. 104; Atty v. Parish, 12 East,
585; Clark v. Smith, 14 Johns. 316; Munroe v. Perkins, 9 Pick.
298.
These auth6rities, to which many more might be added, arefull md express to the point that where a deed is the foundation
of the claim, and can still be regarded as subsisting and in full
force between the pares, the actioni to enforce its provisions must

334

-SUPREME COURT.
[Fresh v.' Gilson et a].]-

be upon the insirument itself. In the case of Tilson v. The Warwick Gaslight- Company, 4'Barn. & Cres. 962; there Are some
expressions of Bayley, Justice, which indicate an opinion by that
learned judge, in opposifion to the doctrine aboye laid aown, and
as counsel in the case of Atty v. Parish, he. had maintained an
opposite doctrine: but it should be borne m mind, that. in Tilson
v: The Gaslight Company, the decision did not turn upon the
principle ruled in the several authdrities above cited, but entirely
upon a state of the pleadings in which the judges declared they
would be justified, if necessary, in presumihg the existence of a
deed. It should be remembered too, that in deciding the case of
Atty v. Parish, Chief Judge Mansfield, after advisement, and
delivering the unanimous opinion of the Court, declared the doctrine cofitended for by Justice (then Serjeant) Bayley, to be such
as he did not understand, or did not feel the application of. With
all the deference justly due to so learned and able a jurist-as Justice Bayley, his argument as counsel, or his opinion intimated not
upon the point adjudged, should not overrule a current of authorities extending from the Year Books to our own day.
There cannot be a doubt that where the contract contained in
a deed-has been varied or substituted by the subsequent acts or
agxeemgnts of the parties, thereby giving rise to new relations
between- them, the remedies originally arising out of the deed,
may be varied in conformity with them. An ction upon the
ded would not be insisted upon -or permitted,.because the rights
and obligations of the parties to the suit would depend upon a
state of things by which the deOd had been put aside. Hence it
has been -ruled, that where a person who had covenanted to perforin certain work had failed-or refused to fulfil his covenant, but
had afterwards, upon the parol engagement of the covenantee, or
by,-is acts amounting in law to an engagement, gone on in whole
or in part to'do the work, he'might recover the value of the work
inas=npsit, upon a quantum meruit." So- too, b etwoen partners,
though articles of"copartnership have been sealed between them,
yet, upon an account stated, and a balance struck,'assumpsit will
lie. This principle is illustrated in several of the. authorities
already quoted,-and in none of them more fbrcibly than in those
of White v. Parkin, 2 East, 585; Monroe -b.Perkins, 9 Pick.
289; to which may be adddd& the cases of The Marine Insurance

JANUARY TERM, 1842,

335

[Fresh v. Gilson et qL)
Company v. Young, 1 Cranch, 331; Bairdav.Blagrove, 1 Wash.
170; and Latimore and others v. Harsen, 14 Johns. 330;' .nd in
the case of Fletcher v. Gillespi% S Bing. 635, although a charterparty had been entered into, yet expenses incurred by the captainin loading the ship were recovered in assumpsit; for, say the Court
in that case, "9This claim does not rest upon the charterparty,
it is for money paid dehors the contract, for the ease anid benefit
of the defendants, and from which they have derived advantage."
Numerous cases applicable to the point here considered will be
found collected by Saunders, in his Treatise on Pleading and Evidence, vol. i. p. 110. It is upon this well'settled distinction, that
this Court, whilst it recognises the principle affirmed by the second
instruction contained in the fifth bill of exceptions, feel bound to
disapprove and overrule the first instruction in that bill. It is
manifest that at the trial testimony was introduced tending to
show -that"the contract between the defendants and the Canal
Company, as well as that entered into betwren the same defendants and the plaintiff, had been modified or substituted by other
and new contracts, tending too to §ho-w acts of performance by the
parties to these new or modified engagements. It was certainly
competent for the parties to use such evidence, and to rely Apon
its effect before the jury. The first instruction of the Circuit Cotirt,
contained in the last bill of exception, cuts off from the plaintiff
at least all benefit of such evidence, however strong it might have
been. 'In this we consider that instruction as having deprived
the plaintiff of an undoubted legal right. We regard it therefore
as erroneous; and for thiscause, and for the reasons assigned for
disapproving the rulings of the Circuit Court upon the other
instructions given in this case, the judgment of that Court is hereby
reversed: and'the cause is remanded to be again tried by a jury
in conformity with the principles of this decision.

