JANUARY TERM, 1842.

CHARLOTTE

A. PAHisE,

APPELLANT, V. HARVEY

W. ELLIS AND

WIFE,APPELLEES.

The acts of Congress, relating to judicial proceedings in the territory of Florida, give
the right of appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States, in cases of equity,
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and prize or no prize; but cases at law are
to be brought up by writ of error, as provided for by the judiciary act of 1789. It
has always been held that a case at law, cannot, under the act of 1803 be brought
to the Supreme Court by. appeal.
In many of the states and territories, the ancient common law remedy for the purposeof obtaining an allotment qf dower, as well as the remedies for other legal rig'hte,
have been changed for others more convenient and suitable to our situation and habits;
yet they are regerded as cases at law, although they are not carried on according to
the forms of the common law.
Cited, Parsons v. Bedford and others, 3 Peters, 447.

ON appeal from the Court of Appeals,'in Florida.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the Court.
The only question in the case on which the Court gave an opinion, was upon the right of the appellant to bring the case to this
Court by appeal, instead of by writ of error.
Mr. Gilpin, for the appellees, contended, that an appeal does
not lie in this Court; this case could be brought here only by *rit
of error. It is not a case either of .eqtity, admiralty, or prize or
no prize. From 1789 to 1803,.all cases were brought here by
writ of error. Act of 24th September, '1789, sec. 22; 1 Story's

Laws, 60.

In 1803, appeals were allowed; but they were ex-

pressly confined to cases of equity, admiralty, and prize or no
prize. Act of 3d March, 1803, see. 2; 2 Story's Laws, 905.
The Courts have always' strictly maintained this distinction between the two modes of proceeding. United States v. Hansoffy
1 Gallison, 21; The San Pedro, 2 Wheat. 141. In the case .of
Ward v. Gregory, 7 Peters, 633, this Court dismissed an appeal

from a judgment rendered in the proceedings upon a mandamus,
which were not proceedings in a case of equify; "admiralty, or
prize or no prize. The proceedings for the assignment of dower
certainly fall as little within either of these classes of cases as

452

SUPREME COURT.

[Parish v. Ellis.]
those upon a mandamus. They are common law proceedings;
and the writ for the allotment of dower in this case resembles,
generally, that which is used in such proceedings. Williams v.
Gwyn, 2 Saunders, 44 d, note 4. This appeal, therefore, ought
to be dismissed.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought here by appeal from the judgment of the
Court of Appeals for the territory of Florida. A motion has
been.made to dismiss the case upon the grounds that it was a
proceeding at law, and not in equity, and that under the acts of
Congress regulating the appellate jurisdiction of this Court, the
case canhot be brought here by appeal; and that we have no
jurisdiction to revise the judgment of the territorial Court, unless
it is brought up by writ of error.
The question may, peirhaps, seem to be rather one of form
than of substance. But, nevertheless, it is our duty to conform
to the acts of Congress; and we cannot exercise the appellate
jurisdiction conferred upon this Court except in the form prescribed by law.
The case in the territorial Court was this :-James L. Parish
died in Jefferson county, in the territory of Florida, in 1838, leaving his widow, Charlotte A. Parish, the present appellant; and no
children. His sister, Catharine Ellis, one of the appellees, was
his heir at law; and he left real estate, negroes, and personal
property of considerable value.
After his death his widow petitioned the Superior Court of
Middle Florida, for an allotment of her dower in the real estate,
and her share of the personal property; claiming to be entitled to
one half of each under a law of the territory, passed in 1838.
And thbreupon a writ was issued by the Court to the sheriff,
directing him to deliver over to the petitioner her portion of the
estate as prayed for. On the 18th of December, 1838, the sheriff
returned the writ with an inquisition or report of certain freeholders summoned by him, allotting to the widow as her dower
certain portions of the real estate, negroes, and property, being
the one half of the gross amount of said estate in quantity and
value.
On the 15th of April, 1839, the present appellees interposed

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

453

[Parish v. Ellk)
and objected to the return and allotment, because it was made
before the estate was settled by the administrator, and; as .they
also alleged, collusively; and because the allotment was too large,
and the mode of proceeding informal. It -was, however, confirmed by the Superior Court; and an appeal thereupon takeln to
the Court of Appeals for the territory, where *thejudgment of the
Superior Court was reversed. And from this judgment of rever~e
the case has been brought here by appeal.
If the proceedings in the territorial Courts were procee[ings at
law and not in equity we have no jurisdiction to hear the case,
because it is not brought here by writ of error. The act of
Congress of July 14, 1832, sec. 3, (4 Story's Laws, 2330,) declares,
that the regulations prescribed by the second section of the act
entitled "An act in addition to an act entitled an. act to amend the
judicial system of the United States," approved the 3d of March,
1803, as far as said regulations shall be practicable, shall be 'observed in respect to all writs of error arid appeals from the said
Court of Appeals in the said territory to the Supreme Court of
the United States. And the act of 1803 thus referred to in the
law of- 1832, gives the right of appeal in cases of equity, of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and prize or no prize; but
leaves the cases of law to be brought up by writ of erroras provided for by the act of 1789. And it has always been held that
a case at law, cannot, vnder the act of 1803, be brought here by
appeal. 2 Wheat. 141, 142.
The question, then, is whether the proceedings in. the Florida
Courts were in a case at law. They certainly differ from the
ancient common law proceeding by writ of dower; and, indeed,
they necessarily differed from it, because the widow's share of
the negroes and personal property were united in the same proceeding that was instituted to recover her dower in the real estate;
and it certainly does not strictly conform to any of the modes of
proceeding known to the common law. But in many of the
states and territories the ancient common law remedy for the
purpose of obtaining an allotment of dower, as well as the remedies for other mere legal rights, has been changed for others more
convenient and suitable to our situation and habits. Yet they
are regarded as cases at law, although they are not carried on
according, to the forms of the common law. In the case of

454

SUPREME COURT.
[Parish V.Ellis.]

Parsons v. Bedford and others, 3 Peters, 447, the Court, when
speaking of remedies of this description, said, that all suits
brought to settle legal rights which were not of equity or admiralty jurisdiction, whatever might be their peculiar forms, were
cases ;t law, within the meaning of those terms, as used in
the Constitution and acts of Congress. In a-case like the present, it is true that although the right is strictly a legal one, yet
the Court of Chancery possesses concurrent jurisdiction with the
Courts of Law. But the proceeding in question is 'obviously
not according to the principles or established practice of Courts of
Equity, and was not intended to be such. It could not be sustained in any Court acting upon the rules of a Court of Chancery;
and must therefore be regarded as a proceeding at law. And
being a case at law it cannot, under the acts of Congress before
mentioned, be brought here except by writ of error.
The'appeal must therefore be dismissed.

