SUPREME COURT.

JoHN

H.

RANDOLPH, EXECUTOR

o

ALGERNON

S. RANDOLPH,

DE-

CEASED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ISRAEL BARRETT, EXECUTOR OF JOEL F.

RANDOLPH, DECEASED, DEFENDANT

IN ERROR.

Amendment. The defendant, in the Circuit Court of Mississippi, was sued and declared against as the administrator of Algernon S. Randolph. He entered his appearance to the suit, and in person filed a plea in abatement, averring that he was not
administrator ofAigernon S. Randolph, and that he was the only executor ofAlgernon
S. Randolph. The plaintiff moved to amend the writ and the declaration, by
striking out administrator, &c., and inserting executor. Leave was granted, and the

amendment was made. Held, that there was no error in the Circuit Court in giving leave to amend.
The power of the Circuit Court to authorize amendments, when there is an3 thing in
the record to amend by, is undoubted. In this case the defendant admitted by. his
plea that he was the person liable to the suit of the plaintiff; but averred that he
was executor and not administrator. Whether he acted in one character or the

other, he held the assets of the testator or intestate in trust for the creditors; and
when his plea was filed, it became part of the record, and furnished matter by which
the pleadings might be amended.
This amendment is not only authorizt by the ordinary rules of amendment, but also
by the statute of the United States of 1789, see. 32.

IN error to the Circuit Coi~rt of the United States, for the
southern district of Mississippi.
A summons was issued in the southern district of Mississippi,
to John H. Rdndolph, stating him to be the administrator of
Algernon S. Randolph, deceased, to answer the defendant in error,

Israel Barrett, the administrator of Joel F. Randolph, of a plea
of trespass on the case, returnable to May term, 1839.

To this

writ the marshal returned, "Executed personally on J. H. Randolph, April 23, 1839."

The plaintiff below, on issuing the writ, filed a declaration
against John H. Randolph, as administrator of Algernon S. Randolph, deceased, for acceptances of- bills of exchange for the use
of the plaintiff's intestate; for money paid, laid out, and expended ; and on an account stated, amounting to the sum of five
thousand
and upwards.
IOn the dollars
26th of -April, 1839, John H. Randolph, having
appeared to the action, filed the following plea.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

139

[Ramdolph v.Barrett,]
The said John H. Ra1dolph comes and defends, &c., when, &c.,
and prays judgment of the plaintiff's writ and declaration, because he says, that he the said John H. Randolph is not administratgr of the goods and chattels, rights and credits, which Were
of Algernon S. Randolph at the time of his death, nor hath he
ever administered as such upon any of the goods or chattels,
rights or- credits of the said Algernon S. Randolph, but that he,.
the said John H. Randolph, is the only executor of the last will
and testament of the said Algernon S. Randolph, who has qualified as such, and this he is ready to verify; wherefore he prays
judgment of the said writ and declaration, and that the same
may be quashed, &c.
At May term, 1839, the plaintiff and defendant being in the
Circuit Court by their attorneys, on motion 6f the plaintiff's
attorney, it was ordered by the Coui, that he havie leave to
amend his writ and declaration herein, which said amendment is
made accotdingly by striking out the words, "1administrator of
all and singular the goods and chattels, fights and credits, which
were of Algernon S. Randolph, at the time of his death, who
died intestate," and inserting't"executor of the last will and testament of Algernon S. Randolph, deceased-" and thereupon it was
further ordered, that this cause be continued till the next November term of the Court aforesaid.
Afterwards, at the November term of the Court, on the fourteenth day of November, 18S9, the following judgment was entered by the Circuit Court. The plaintiff appearing by his attorney, and it appearing to the satisfaction of the Court, that the
writ aforesaid has been duly executed on the defendant, John H.
Randolph, executor of the last will and testament 'of Algernon S.
Randolph, deceased, and he failing to appear, though solemnly
zalled, judgment was rendered for the plaintiff, Israel Bairettadministrator of- Joel F. Randolph, for five thousand six hundred
and fifty-five dollars, the damages having been assessed under a

writ of inquiry.
From this judgment the defendant below prosecuted. this
appeal.
The cse was argued by Mr. Henderson, for the plaintiff in
error. No counsel-appeared for the defendant.

SUPREME COURT.
[Randolph v. Barmtt.]

The following errors were assigned by the counsel for the
plaintiff in error.
1. That the judgment is rendered against the defendant below
on default, whereas a: good and sufficient plea in .abatement is
interposed by the record, which is undisposed of by judgment
or otherwise.
2. It is error, That the Court below extended to plaintiff leave
to amend equivalent to a new action, and proceeded to judgment
without award of new process, or rule to plea de novo.
3. t is error, That the judgment is rendered against the defendant as executor, &c., when, as it appears by the record, he is
summoned and declared against as administrator.
Mr. Henderson said: The latitudinous rule of amendment,
given to the plaintiff in this case, may not perhaps be successfully contested: but it must be a manifest error, that there was
in fact no amendment made under the rule; and yet the judgment
is rendered, as if the amendment had been made according to
the rule.
We suppose it certain that leave to amend, specifying in what
the amendment shall consist, cannot be regarded as the amendment itself. Had the defendant further pleaded, he must have
pleaded to the declaration, and not to the rule of amendment.
But the writ and declaration still remain, charging defendant as
administrator: defendant could not, therefore, respond as executor, and must have again reasserted his plea of ne unques administrator.
So yet stands his plea; and hence we say it is error that it has
iot been decided on.
Or, in the other aspect, it is error, that the Court has rendered
judgment against the defendant as executor, on a misrepresentation of the fact, as appears by record, that he was summoned
as executor, when the writ shows differently, and upon a declaration also charging him as administrator. An amendment of a
declaration, inserting a new name, is a new declaration; and it
is the attorney's and not the clerk's business to make the amendment. 2 Brock, C. C. R. 14. So of amending a bill, 3 Wash. C.
C. R. 354.
The judgmert does not conform to the writ and pleadings, and
cannot be made so to do in this Court.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

141

[Randolph v. Barrett.]

Mr. Justice MKINLEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the southern district of lississippi.
The defendant in the Court below was served with a writ of
summons, in an action on the case, and a declaration was filed
against him, as administrator of all and singular the goods and
chattels, &c., of Algernon S. Randolph, deceased, who died intestate, &c To which the defendant entered._an appearance, and
filed in person a plea in abatement, averring that he was not administrator of the goods and chattels, &c., which were of the said
Algernon S. Randolph, at the time of his death, &c.; but that he,
the said John H. Randolph, Nvas the only executor of the last will
and testament of the said Algernon S. Randolph, dedeased, &c.
Whereupon the plaintiff moved for leave to amend the summons
and declaration, by striking out the words "administrator of all
and singular the goods and chattels, rights and credits, which
were of Algernon S. Randolph, at the time of his death, who died
intestate," and inserting "executor of the last will and testament
of Algernon S. Randolph, deceased." The leave was granted,
the amendment ordered, and the cause continued. At the next
term of the Court, judgment by default was rendered against the
defendant.
To reverse this judgment, the counsel for the plaintiff in error
relied on these grounds: First, The ,Circuit Court had no authority to order the amendment ofthe summons and declaration,
there being nothing in the record to amend, by. Secondly, No
judgment could be rendered against the defendant, until the plea
in abatement was disposed of. Thirdly, Judgment by default
could not be taken against the defendant after appearance
entered.
The power of the Court to authorize amendments, where there
is any thing on the record t& amend by, is nndoubted. In this
case, the defendant admitted by his plea, that he was the person
liable to the suit of the plaintiff; but averred that he was executor
and riot administrator. Whether he acted in one character or the
other, he held the assets, of the testator, or intestate, in trust for
the creditors; and when his plea was filed, it became part of
the record, and furnished mAtter,. by which the pleadings might
be amended. Master v. Hurtz, 3 Maule & Selwyn, 450; Barnes,

SUPREME COURT.
[Randolph v.Barrett.]

Notes of Practice, 5; 1 Mass. 433. And, in addition to these
authorities, express authority is given, by the thirty-second section of the judiciary act of 1789, to the Courts of the United
States, to permit either of the parties, at any time, to amend any
defect in the process or pleadings, upon such conditions as the
Courts shall, in their discretion and by their rules, prescribe. This
amendment is, therefore, not only authorized by the ordinary
rules of amendment, but by the statute also.
The object of the defendant in filing the plea was, to prove
that he was jot administrator, and that he was executor; and
thereby to abate the plaintiff's writ. The motion of the plaintiff
for leave to amend the writ and declaration, so as, to charge the
defendant as executor and not as administrator, amounted to a
confession of the truth of the plea; but insteaid of abating the
writ according to the prayer of that plea, the Court granted the
motion of the plaintiff, and ordered the amendment. Thisproceeding was a final disposition of that plea in abatement; and, as the
defendant appeared for the purpose of pleading in abatement
only, the decision of the Court upon the plea put him out of
Court; and for failing to appear again, and plead to the action,
. judgment by default was properly rendered against him. The
judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore, affirned.

