JANUARY TERM,. 1842.

Tsm

UNITED STATES, -V.WILLIAM MURPHY, A&ND -WiLLI&M
MORGAN.

The owner of propety, alleged to have been. stolen on board an American vessel. 6a
the high seas, is a competent witness to prove the ownership of the propery toen,
on an indictment igainst the person charged vith the ofience, under the "act for the
punishment of certain crimes against the United States," passed 30th April, 1790.
The fine imposed on the person who shall be convicted of the offlene
of stealing oi.
the high seas, on boarda vessel of the United States, is part of the punishment ii
furtherance of public justice; rather than an indemnity or compensation to the
owner. From the nature of an indictment, and the sentence-thereon, the government
alone has the right to control the whole proceedings, ahd execution'of, the sentence.
Even after verdict, the government may not choose to bring the party u hfr sentence; and if sentence is pronounced, and the fine is impoied,'the owner has no
authority to interfere in the collection of it, any more than the, intormer or prQee.
cutor; and the 'fine, therefore, must be deemed receivable by the-government,
and the government alone.
In cases of necessity, where a statute can receive no execution, unless' the arty interested be a witness, there..he must be allowed to testify, for the statute must not be
rendered ineffectual by the impossibility of proof
In case where, although the statute giving the party or the informera part. of the •
penalty or forfeiture, contains no direct affirmation that he.shall; nevertheless,'be a
competent witness, yet the Court will infer it, by implication, trom the language of
the statute, or its professed objects.

ON a certificate of division from the Circuit Court of the United.
States for the southern distribt of New York.
On indictment for stealing sovereigns) while on. board the ship
Carroll of Carrolton, on the high seas.
The defendants, William Murphy and William Morgan, were
indicted under the sixteenth section of the act entitled, "can act
for the punishment of certain crimes against the United States,"
approved on the 30th of April, 1790,for taking and carrying away
with an intent to steal and purloin, on board of an American vessel on the high seas, one hundred and two gold coins called soveu
reigns, each of the value of five-dollars, of the personal 5oods of
Francis M'Mahon
The defendants having pleaded not guilty, and the case being
brought to trial, Francis M'Mahon, the owner- o1 tme property
described in the indictment, was called as a witnes on the part

204

SUPREME COURT.
[ho United States v. Murphy et a!.]

of the United States, to prove the ownership of the said property,
and that it had been stolen from him in June, 1840, in his passage
on board the ship'Carroll of Carrolton, from Liverpool to the city
of New York; and arso, to prove facts and circumstances tending
to show that the defendants were guilty of the said offence, to
the competency of which'witness, as to either of the said matters,
the counsel for the defendants objected, on the ground that he
was interested in the event of the suit; and so interested that he
would not be rendered competent by any release to be executed
by him.
And hereupon the judges were divided in opinion upon the
following questions which were presented for their decision.
1. Whether the said Francis MIMahon, the owner of the property alleged to have been stolen, was a competent witness to be
examined on the part of the United States, as to all the matters
above mentioned?
2. If not competent to testify as to the guilt of the defendants,
whether he was competent to prove the ownership of the property described in the indictment, and that it had been taken and
carried away with intent tosteal and purloin?
3. If not competent for both or either of the above purposes,
without having released his interest in the fine to be imposed on
the defendants in case of their conviction, whether, by releasing
to the United States all his right to and interest in such fine, his
competency would be restored?
Which said points, upon which the disagreement has-happened,
were stated above under the direction of the said Court, at the
request of the counsel for the parties in the cause; and were ordered
to be certified unto the Supreme Court of the United States at the
next.session-, pursuant to the act in such case made and provided.
The case was submitted to the Court, without argument, on the
part of the United States, by Mr. Legar6, attorney-general of the
United States.
The counsel for the defendant, Mr. Nash, presented a printed
argument.
First point.-The witness, Francis MIMahon, the owner of the
property'charged to have been stolen, *as not a competent wit-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

205

[The United States v.Murphy et ah]

ness to be examined on the part of the United States, in this
cause.
The indictment is founded upon the sixteenth section of the act
approved April 30th, 1790, being the act for the punishment of
certain crimes against the United States. (1 Story's edition of
the acts of Congress, page 83.)
The section upon which the indictment is founded, among
other things, declares that "if any person upon the high seas shall
take and carry away, with an intent to steal or purloin, the personal goods of another, the person or persons so offending, their
counsellors, aiders, and abettors, knowing of, and privy to the
offence, shall, on conviction, be fined not exceeding fourfold the
value of the property so stolen or purloined; the one moiety to be
paid to the owner of the goods, and the other moiety to the
informer and prosecutor."
In this case, the witness is both the owner of the goods and the
informer and prosecutor; upon the conviction of the defendants,
the whole fine against them must be paid to the witness direct,
without any suit or further proceedings; the Court have no power
to dispose of the fine in any other manner, and nothing can be
inflicted upon the defendants on conviction, by way of sentence,
but the fine; as whippi, -is abolished by the act of Congress.
The witness is directly IL.terested in the sentence, the temptation to false swearing is great; immense; and increases just in
proportioti to the difficulties that surround the case to detect
perjury.
Suppose the witness should swear that fifty eagles were stolen
from his trunk, then the sentence might award him two hundred;
should he swear that one hundred were stolen, the sentence might
award him four hundred; and so on in an arithmetical ratio ;
while his testimony could be confined within the bounds of probability or possibility, no one could detect the falsity in regard to
the number of pieces stolen; -the starting point is in the dark,
concealed in his own bosom; perjury could not be detected; he
might safely allege his tuunk to be full of gold, and no one be
able to testify to the contrary.
Informers are generally incompetent witnesses, where they are
to -receive any portion of the decree, sentence, or judgment, without the necessity -of a second suit. The United States v. The
VOL. XVI.-S

206

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Murphy et al.]

schooner -Thomas and Henry, Fletcher and Parker, claimants;
1 Brock. Rep. 374; Tilley's.Case. 1 Stfange's Rep. P16; Rex v.
Stone, 2 Lord-Raymord's Rep. 1545.
By.the common law, informers who are entitled under the
statute to part of a.penalty are not competent witnesses. 1 Phillipps's Evidence, 12t; 2 Phillipps's Evidence, 166.
In tl{e present case, the act of Congress does not intimate that
the ififormer is a competent witness , without the aid of the.statute
the'informer is not a competent wifness I 'the statute can receive
execution without the.party seeking to recover the penalty being
admitted as a witness. Salisbury -e. The state of Connecticut,
6.Conn. Rep. 101.
Seeond point.-The witness, Francis M'Mahon, was not competent to te.tity or prove the ownership of the property described
in the indictment, and that it had been taken and carried away
with intent to steal oropurlom.
The witness, if sworn! in the cause for one purpose, in chief,
becomes a general witness for all purposes; he is not more interested inf any one part of the controversy than in another; he
does not come within the rule in.Chancery, that a witness may
be examined as to that part to which he has no interest. The
'witness once,sworn in chief becomes a witness generally. Varick
v. Jackson, and authorities'there cited,,2 Wend. Rep. 166.
A person who has had his name forged upon an instrument is
not a competent witness even to prove any fact besides the forgery
which may'contribute to the general conclision of guilt; and in
case of a person whose goods have been stolen, he was a competent witness at the common law, only .upon the ground that the
civil remedy was merged in the felony, and the party could not
obtain restitution of stolen goods upon conviction': this was only
to be obtained upon'an appeal of felony. The statute of 21 Herr.
8, ch. 2, gave full restitution of the property taken, after the
conviction of an offender of robbery. The writ of restitution
was to-be granted by the justices of the assize, and at the present
day it seems ihat if the prosecutor has been guilty of any gross
neglect in his-duty to the public, in bringing the offender to justice,
he will not be entitled to the benefit of the wiit of restitution.
1'Chitty~s Crimiial Law; 7, 817.
The reason that a person is a competent Witness'atlhe commo?

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

207

[The United States v. Murphy et a1.]

law to prove that his goods have beerf stolen by the defendant,
and on such testimony to convict him, was, that the- prosecutor
could obtain nothing by the conviction of the defendant. The
prosecutor whose goods have been stolen has been made a competent witness in a prosecution against the offender, upon whose
conviction he obtains restitution of the goods, by force ,of the
statutes; the statutes have made the prosecutor a competent witness; he is riot such witness without the aid of the statutes, since
he is to obtain restitution of his goods uporr conviction. The
difficulty in the present case in regard to M'Mahon is, that no
statute of the United States has made him a competent witness,;
and without the aid of such a statute he cannot be a witness by
the common law, as he is directly interested-in.the sentence.
Third point.-The witness3 M'Mahon, cannot release to the
United States his right to, and interest in, the fine to be imposed
upon the defendants in case of conviction; and therefore his comr
petency cannot be restored or created.
The United States are not authorized by law-to take such'a
release; the right to a. share of a penalty, or the whole of sqcll
penalty, cannot be released or assigned. Commonwealth v. Hergesheimer, 1 Ashmead's Rep. 415.
Nothing would exist to release or assign at the time of making
the same; the right has not then accrued; an- estate catnot be
granted by deed to commence in-fituro such deed is void., -See
Coke on Littleton, 265.
The party may release a possibility coupled. with an interest;
but a naked possibility is not subject to a release. Spe Jackson
v. Waldron,, 13 Wend. Rep. 178.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Coutt.
This case comes before us upon a certificate of division of opinion of the judges of tle Circuit'Court of the southern district of
New York, under the following circumstances,'
The- defendants, William Murphy and William Morgan, were
indicted under the sixteenth section of the act entitled, 'ani act
for the punishmentof certain crimes against the United States,"
approved on the 30th of April, 1790, for taking and carrying
away with an intent to steal and purloin, on board of an American
vessel on the high seas, one hundred and' two gold coins, called

20$

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Murphy et al.]

sovereigns, each of the value of five dollars, of the personal goods
of Francis M'Mahon.
The defendants having pleaded not guilty, and the case being
brought to trial, Francis M'Mahon, the owner of the property
described in the indictment, was called as'a witness on the part
of the United States, to prove the ownership of the said property,
ana tnat it had been stolen from him in June, 1840, in his passage
on board the ship Carroll of Carrolton, from Liverpool to the city
of New York; and also to prove facts and circumstances tending
to show that the defendants were guilty of the said offence; to
the competency of which witness, as to either of the said matters,
the counsel for the defendants objected, on the ground that he
was interested in the event of the suit; and so interested that ne
would not be rendered competent by any release to be executed
by him.
And hereupon the judges were divided in opinion upon the
following questions, which were presented fbr their decision.
1. Whether the said Francis M'Mahon, the owner of the property alleged lo have been stolen, was a competent witness to be
examined on the part of the United States, as to all the matters
above mentioned?
2. If not competent to testify as to the guilt of the defendants,
whether he was competent to prove the ownership of the property described in the indictment; and that it had been taken and
carried away with intent to steal anci purloin?
3. If not competent for both or either of the above purposes,
without having released his interest in the fine to be imposed on
the defendants, .in case of their conviction ; wnether by releasing
to the United States all his right to and interest m such fine, his
competency would be restored?
-We have considered these questions: and I am now directed to
deliver the opinion of this Court upon them. The first question
presents, in its most general fbrm, the consideration of the competency of M'Mahon, the owner of the goods alleged to have
been stolen; and it must be admitted to involve no small difficulty, whether viewed in relation to principle or authority. The
act of Congress (act of 30th of April, 1790, ch. 86, see. 16) upon
which this prosecution is founded, provides, "that if any person
within any of the places under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

209

(The United States v. Murphy et al.]

of the United States, or upon the high seas, shall take and carry
away, with an intent to steal or purloin, the personal goods of
another; or if any person or persons having at any time hereafter the charge or custody of any arms, ordnance, munitions, &c.,
&c., belonging to the United States, shall, for any lucre or gain,
or wittingly, advisedly, and of purpose to hinder or impede the
service of the United States, embezzle, purloin, or convey away
any of the said arms, ordnance, munitions, &c., &c., the person or
persons so offending, their counsellors, &c., &c., shall, on conviction,
be fined not exceeding the fourfold value of the property so
stolen, embezzled, or purloined; the one mQiety to be paid to the
owner of the goods or the United States, as the case may be, and
the other moiety to the informer and prosecutor; and be publicly
whipped not exceeding thirty-nine stripes."
It is not unimportant to observe, in the construction of this
sBction of the act, that the fine is, as to its amount, purelV in the
discretion of the Court; that, whatever it may be, it rests on a
mere contingency-even after conviction, whether it will ever be
paid or not, depending upon the ability of the'convict: and that
if the fine is to be awarded as a part of the sentence of the Court
upon the indictment, (as it seems properly to be,) then it must be
taken to be a part of the punishment in furtherance of public
justice, rather than an. indenuiity or compensation to the owner,
since it may bear no proportion to his loss or injpry. Besides,
from the very nature of an indictment and. the -sentence thereon,
the government alone has the right to control the whole proceedings and execution of the sentence. Even aftEr verdict, the
government may not choose to bring the party up. for sentence;
and if sentence is pronounced, and the fine is'imposed, the owner
has no authority to interfere in the collection of it, any more than
the informer or prosecutor; and the fine theFrTore must be deeiaed
receivable solely by the government; and then it Is distributable
by the government, and by the government only. It would indeed require strong language in any statute, where the proceedings were by indictment, to construe that indictment, or the
sentence thereon, to be controllable by other parties who might
have an interest in or under the sentence. In this respect there
is a great difference between an information or action qui tam,
where a part of the penalty or forfeiture belongs to the informer
27
s2

210

SUPREME COURT
[Unitdd States v. Murphy et al.]

or prosecutor, and an indictment, the conviction upon which may
entitle the informer or prosecutor to a part of the penalty or forfeiture. In the former case, the informer or prosecutoi may not,
be a good witness; at least not unless under special circumstances;
in the latter case he may be: for notwithstanding a conviction
upon tfie indictment, he must still sue for the penalty or forfeiture
by action or information, and cannot receive it under the sentence
upon the indictment. This distinction was adverted to by -Mr.
Justice' Bayley, in delivering the opinion of the Court in The
King v. Williams, (9 Barn. and Cress. 549,) upon which we shall
have occasion to comment more at large hereafter.
The rules as to the competency of witnesses in criminal cases
are not exactly and throughout the same in America as in England, although in most cases they concur. Thus, for example,
in cases of forgery, the party whose riame is supposed to have
been forged is not a competent witness in England. But a different course has generally, although perhaps not universally,
prevailed in America. So the owner of stolen goods has been
universally admitted as a competent witness, in America, at least
to prove the identity of his property and the fact of the theft, if
not to prove all other facts, although, independently of the statute
of 21 Hen. 8, ch. 11, his competency seems to have been a matter
of doubt in England.
The general rule undoubtedly is, in criminal cases as we l as in
civil cases, that a person interested in the event of the suit or
prosecution is .not a competent witness. But there are many
exceptions which are as old as the rule itself. Thus, it is stated
by Lord Chief Baron Gilbert as a clear exception, that where.
a statute can receive no execution unless a party interested
be a witness, there he must be allowed; for. the statute must not
be rendered ineffectual by the impossibility of proof. Gilb. o
Evid. 114; 1 Phillipps on Evid. ch. 8,sec. 7,p. 125, edit. 1839 by
Cowen. - So cases of necessity, where no other evidence can be
reasonably expected, have been'from the earliest period admitted
as another exception. Thus, for example, upon indictments for
robbery, the person robbed is constantly admitted as a competent witness, althoiigh he will be entitled to a restitution of his
goods upon conviction of the offender. 1 Phillipps on Evid. ch.
5, sec. 6, p. 120, edit. 1839, by Cowen. So in an action against

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

211

States .Murphy et al.]
[The Uniter&

the hhndred by the party robbed brought 'nder.:th6 statute of
Winton. he is adnitted as a competent witness to prove the robbery and the amount ofthe loss; upon the acknowledged ground
that it is from necessity in default of other proof. 2 Rolle Abr.
686; 1 Phillipps on Evil ch. 5, sec. 2, p. 70, edit. 1839, by Cowen.
Another exception, quite as remarkable, and- standing upon a
ground applicable to the 'present case, is that of a person who is
to, receive a reward for or upon the conviction of the offender;
for he is universally" re-ognised as a competent witness, whether
the reward be offered by the public or by private persons. The
ground of this exception is forcibly sttted by Mr. Justice Bayley,
in The King v. Williams, 9 Barn. and Cress. 549, 5$6, where he
says: "The case of reward is clear on the grounds" of -public
policy, with a -view. to the public interest; and because of the
principle upon which suchxewards are given. The publiclhas
an interest in the suppression of crime and the conviction of
guilty criminals. It is with a view to stir up greater vigilafce in
apprehending, that rewards are given- and. it would defeat the
obiect of the legislature by means of those rewards, to narrow
the meane of conviction and to exclude testimony, which Would
otherwise be admissible. Aiother exception is, in cases where;
although the statute giving the party or the informer a part of
the penalty or forfeiture, contains no direct affirmation, that he
shall, nevertheless be a competent witness; y~t the Court will
infer it by implication from the language of the statute or its
professed objects.
Several cases of this sort are collected and commentel upon, by
Mr. Justice-Bayley, in the case of The King v. Williams, and they
fully support the exception. Mr. Phillipps also, in his work on
Evidence, 'has given a summary of the.leading decisions, (1 Phillipps on Evid. ch. 3, sec. 7, p. 125, edit. 1839, by Cowen.) Indeed,
Mr. Justice Bdyley puts the exception, founded upon statute provisions, upon a very broad and tomprehensive ground, which is
fully in point in the present case. He says; "Where it is plain
that the detection and conviction of the offender, are the objects
of the legislature, the case will be within the- exception; and the
person benefited by the conviction, will, notwithstanding his
interest, be competent." And in the very case then in judgient,
which was a case for a forcible entry'into a dwelling-house, on

212

SUPREME COURT.
(The United States v. Murphy et al.]

the statute of 21 Jac. ch. 15, where the prosecutor would, upon
conviction, be entitled to judgment of restitution of the premises,
he was held incompetent, solely because (to use the language of
the learned judge) "the public interest will still have-the protection of a common law indictment; and there is nothing from
which an inference can be drawn, that it was with a: view to the
public interest, and not for the sake of the benefit of the party
grieved, that the provision for restitution was introduced into the
statute." Now, every word of this passage shows, that in the
case now before us, the party ought to be held competent. No
common law indictment will lie for the offence, but only the
statute remedy, and the statute - is obviously drawn with a view
to the public interest, and the suppression of public crimes; and
nct for the interest of the party aggrieved, since the fine is n the
discretion of the Court, and may be purely nominal.
Looking to the objects of the present section, the promotion of
public justice, and the suppression of public~crimes, in which the
government have a deep interest; and looking to the ordinary
means by which the ends can be accomplished; it, is difficult not
to perceive, that if the owner of the stolen goods be incompetent,
it will be found utterly impra&icable, ii, most cases falling within
the purview of the section, to procure any conviction, however
frequent, or however flagrant may be the offence. The places on
land wheie the offence may be committed are such, as being
within
ithe exclusive jurisdiction of the Uriited States, coptain but
few inhabitants, or few wvhose residence is not transitory and
changing. Take the case of a lighthouse establishnient, where
scarcely any 'other inhabitants are found but the keeper and his
family; if he and his wife are excluded as witnesses from incompetency, how will it be practicable to establish the identity of the
property stolen,,or of the person of the thisf, however atrbcious
and premeditated may, be the circumstances under which the
offence is committed? It may bein the night time; itibay be in
the broad day, even by a company of conspirators. But take
the very case now in judgment, that of a theft committed on the
high seas, where money is stolen from a passenger or an officer of
the ship, or from one of the crew; who else besides himself can
be expected to 'establish the identity of the property, or the circumstances of the theft? It is scarcely'popsible that it could be
-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

218

[Te Unite-d States v. Murphy et aL]

done in one case in one hundred. Can Congress reasonably be supposed, in cases of offences committed upon the high seas, thus to
Have intended to shut out all the ordinary means and ordinary
proofs of the offence; and thus to have given new encouragement,
ard new motives to theft, and embezzlement, andplunderage? We
think not. Upon all the grounds of exception already stated;
upon the ground of necessity, and of public policy, and of attaining the.manifest objects of the statute, and the ends of justice; we
think that the witness was admissible for all the purposes stated
in the first question.
This decision is not new in Arerica. On the contrary, th
doctrine has been recognised, at least to an equal extent, in Connecticut and Massachussetts. In thecase of Salisbury v. 'The state
of Connecticut, (6 Conn. R. 101,) the judges of the Supreme Court
of that state, held, that the owner of goods stolen, was a competent witness for all the matters in issue upon an indictment for
the theft; although the statute declared-that the thief, upon being
convicted, should forfeit and pay treble the value of the property
stolen to the owner thereof. It is true, that one main ground of
this decision, by a majority of the judges, was, that there must be
another action, qui tain, by the owner to enforce the forfeiture.
But the same judges held, that in such an action qui tam, btought
by .the owner, he would be a competent witness to prove the loss
and identity of his property, for the like reasons as, under the
statute of Winton, the party robbed is admitted. In The Commonwealth v. Moulton, 9 Mass. R. 29, upon an indictment for
theft, it was held, that the owner of the goods was a competent
witness as to all the facts in the case; notwithstanding the witness would, by the statute, upon the conviction of the offendei,
be entitled to restitution of his goods; and, if they were not
restored, to satisfaction out of the future earnings of the convict,
and to recompense out of the county treasury for his labour and
expense in the prosecution. Upon that occasion the Court said,
that when (under a former statute) the party from whom goods
were stolen, was by law entitled to treble the value, he -was
always received as a competent witness as to all pertinent facts.
As to the second and third questions, they do not require any.
particular examination, after what has been already stated. We
have only to say, that if we had not been- of opinion, upon the

214

StTPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Murphy et al.)

first question, that the witness was a general wituess, we should
have entertained no doubt that he was a competent witness for
the purposes stated in the second question, upon the ground of
necessity, and the analogy to the case of the party robbed under
the statute of Winton. And as to the third question, we should
have no doubt, that if the witness had such an interest in the fine
as would have rendered hini incompetent, his competency might
have been restored by a release. If, as the irgument for the
defendant seems to assume, the release is of a mere possibility, no
release would be necessary; for a possibility of interest is no
objection to the competency of a witness. If it is, on the other
hand, a fixed interest in the event of the prosecution, then it is
clearly releasable.,
Upon the whole, we are of opinion.that all the questions ought
to be answered in the affirmative. But, at the same time, we
desire to say, that although a competent witness, the credibility
-of his testimony is a matter for the consideration of the jury,
under. all thq weight-of circumstances connected with the case,
and his interest in the result.
We shall direct a certificate to be sent to the Circuit Court of
the southern district of New York, accordingly.

