JANUARY .TERM,,184.

THOMAs AR:mSTOrNG AND OTHE2lS, PLAINTIFFS -I

281

ROR, v. TH

TEEAStJIER oF ATaiNs *COUNTr, DEFEN4DANT IN ERROR.
An act was passed by thu legislature ii2 1840, by which certain lands held under con'
,veyances from .the President and Trustees of the Ohio University, at Athens, were

directed to be assessed and%,taxedfor county and stae purpoes.

,A bill wa Aed by

the purchasers of the land agaist -the tax opllechor, praying that he should be per.
petually dnjolned from enforcing thi payment.of the taxes, eas the lsds ad
been exem'pt&d by a statut of Ohio, of 1804; whic the bili alleged entered into the
conditions of sale, under which the complainants held the land. It was insisted that
,the act of 1840.violales the contract with the purchasers,' and is. void, being contrary
to the clahse. of the Constitdtion of the United Statei which prolbits.tse states frgm
passing any law violating the obligation of contracts. The Supreme.Court 6t Ohio
dismissed the bill of the complainants. The ordinimce of 178', by which a large
section of country, in Ohio wa" sold to -a-company, gave tWo-complete townships
of land for the purposes of a university, It "1804,an act 6f' the iegislature of Ohio
established the pnivepity. on the foundation of the fund ranted by Congress, and
vested the land in the corpprition of the pniversity.. The hctdirected the .manner
-in which the land was to be leased, reserving rent tQ the corporaiion; andhe seventeenth section directed thit the. lanS appropriated and vested by the act, shpuld be
exeibpted froma0l state taxes In 1826, the legislature authorized all the university
land not encumhied with leases, or which had not been re-entered by the trustees -of
the university, or to which they had regained their title,.to be sold'ii, fee simple for
the benefit of .the university.. The complainants purchased the lani held by then.
under this statute, and tookldeods'in'fee; no exemption'ftrom taxes being contained in
the-statute, or in their deeds. Held, that the lands havingbeen purchased nder the act
of"1826, and not being held under -the act of 1804-, were subject to taxaion.. All
the purchasers held under the act of 1826, and cannot go behind it t and their ldAs
are subject like other persons' to be taxed by the state.
The case of The State of New Jersey . Wilson, 7-Cranch,'164, cited and affirmed. In
that case the land had for a sufficient consideraion been given by the state to Acerain
Indiin tribe, and- was declared to be forever exempt from taxes. The Indians, with
the consent of the-state, sold the land, and the purchaser of the Indian litle obtained
the land, with the exemption from'taxes granted by the state.
In order to give this Court jurisdiction under the twenty-fifib section of the judiciary
act of 1784, which authorizes the removal of a case by writ of error 6r appeal from
the highest Court of a siate to the Supreme Court of the United States, in certain'
caes, it must appear on-the record itself to be one of cases enumerated in that section, and nothing out'of the record c~rtified to this Court can be taken into consideration. This must be shown:
First, Either by express averment, or by neeesaary intendment ,in the pleadipg- in the
case; or:
Secondly, By the-directions given by the Court, and stated'in theeXceptions, or:
Thirdly, When the proceedings are according to the law of Louisiana, by the statement
of facts, and of the decision, as is usually made in such cases by the Court; or:
36
2A2

284

SUPREME COURT.
v. The 'reasurer of Athens County.]
[Armstzono et al.

Fourthly, It must be entered.on the record of the proceedings of the appellate Court,
in caes where the record shows that such a point may have arisen and been decided,
fait raised and decided; and this entry must appear to have been made
that it was in"
by order of the Court, or by the presiding judge by order of the Court, and ceitifled
in the State Court; or:
by the clerk as part of the reco.-d
decree of
Fifthly, In proceedings in equity, it may be stated in the body of the final
the State Court,fron which the appeal is taken to this Court; or:
Sixthly, It must appear from the record, that the question was neceisarily involved in
the decision, and that the State Court could not have given 1he judgment or decree
which they passe, without deciding it.

IN error to the Supreme Court of the state of Ohio.
A bill was fied in the Court of Common Pleas of the county
of Athens, in the s.tate of Ohio, by Thomas Armstrong and others,
stating that they were seised in fee of certain lands purchased by
them from the President and Trustees of the'Ohio University, in
pursuance of the provisions of an act of the Assembly of the state
of Ohio, entitled "An act authorizing the Trustees of the Ohio
University, to dispose of certain lands," -passed February 4th,
1826. The lands are situated within.the two townships granted
by Congress within the bounds of the Ohio Company's purchase,
for the endowment of a university. By the seventeenth section
of the act of the Assembly of Ohio, passed February, 1804, entitled, "An act establishing a University in'the town of Athens,"
It is declared "that the lands in the two towT]ships aforesaid, with
the buildings which are or may be erected thereon,.shal lie forever
exempt from. all state taxes." Thp bill asserted that the lands
were purchased frQm the president and trustees of the university, in the full faith and confidence that the same would remain
forev'er and exempt from all taxes for state purposes.
The bill further represents that notwithstanding the declaration
contained in the act of February 18th, 1804, w.pursuance of the
provisiQns of an act of the -Assembly o; Ohio, passed on the 21st
of March, 1840, entitled ".An act to amend an act authoriziag
the trtstees of the Ohio University. to dispose of certain lands,
passed February 4th, 1826," the several tracts of land belonging
to the complainantshave been appraised by the assessor of Athens
county, and placed on the duplicate for taxation by the auditor
of the county, and taxes for state and county purposes have been
assessed on the said lands. The tax duplicates have been placed

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

283

[Arnztrong et al. v. The Treasurer of Athens County.]

in the hands of a collector and they have been called upon to.pay
the same.
The bill prays for an answer, and for a perpetual injunction
from further proceedings to collect the said taxes; and for further
and other relief
By the ordinance of Congress, of 1787, under which a large
body of land was sold to- a company, two townships of land
were reserved for the purposes of a-university; and in 1804,-the
legislature of Ohio established a university at Athens, appropriatig to it these two townships of land. By this act the land was
to be leased -out for ninety-nine years, the rents to be -paid to the
university; and the land was declared to be exempted from all
state taxes. In 1826, the legislature of Ohio authorized all the
land belonging to the university to be sold in feetsimple 4and nothing was stated in this act exempting the land to be ola from
taxes. The appellants purchased the land from the university,
sold nder the authority of this law.
The treasurer of Athens county-appeared and dnswered the
bill, and admitted all the facts stated in it, and also that he intended to collect the taxes assessed on the land; asserting that he
had a right to do so by virtue of an act of-the General Assembly
of Ohio, passed 21st March, 1840, in connection with other, general
laws of Ohio defining the duties of treasurer; which said act,
and other further acts, he set up as a defence to the complainant's

bill.
At the October term of the Court of Common Pleas, the injunction which had been granted on the'filing of this bill, was made
perpetual.
The defendant appealed to the Supreme Court, and the decree
of the Court of Comhion Pleas was, at the December term, 1-840,
reversed; and the complainants were adjudged to pay costs.
In the record of the proceedings of the Supreme -Court of Ohio,
was the following certificate:
(4I do hereby certify, that in the above-named case there was
drawn in question the validity of the statute of the state of Ohio,
passed on the 21st day of March, 1840, entitled "An act to
amend the act, authorizing the trustees of the Ohio University to
dispose of certain lands, passed July 4, 1826,' on the ground that
it was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and

SUPREME COURT.
[Armstrong et al. v. Tho Treasurer of Athens County.]

that the decision of the Court was in favour of the validity of said
EBEN. LANE,
statute.
Chief Judge of the Supreme Court of Ohio."
From the decree of the Supreme Court of Ohio, the complainant's appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States.
The case was submitted to the Court, on a printed argument,
';y Mr. Ewing, for the appellants. No counsel appeared for the
appellees.
Mr. Ewing, in the printed argument, stated that, the act of
the 18th of February, 1804, expressly declares that these lands
"shall forever be exempted from state tax-is." This exemption
is not limited to the duration of the particular tenure by which
they were at first held, but the exemption. was of the land and
the improvements upoh it forever. The act of February 4th,
1826, authorizing the sale, does not directly or indirecty withdraw that exemption, or declare that it shall not attach to the
land after sale. It was exempt.forever, when it was offered for
sale ; and passed with this exemption into the hands of the purchaser. It was-his, charged with the burdens and favoured with
the privileges which attached to it, under the several laws and
parts of laws then in force respecting it; and those laws formed
part and parcel of his contract.. The law of 1840, subsequently
passed, changing those laws to his injury, was a violation of his
contract, contrary to the Constitution of the United States, and
therefore void.
.The case of the state of Niew Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164,
is in point. There is nothing to distinguish the two cases from
each other.
Mr. Justice CAoTRoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is awrit of error from a State Court; and it has become
the duty of this Court, before proceeding to examine the merits
of "the controversy, to determine whether jurisdiction over it is
conferred by the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act of 3789
It is true no question upon that subject was raised in the argument presented for the appellant; (the respondent baving no
counsel.;) but it has .been the uniform practice of this. Court, in
every case of this description, to ascettain, in the first instance,

JANUARY TERM, -1842.

285

[Armstronj et aL v. The reasurer of Athens County.]

whether' the record presented a case- in whicl we.ewere author,
ized by law to revise the judgment or decree of a State Court.
And this qiestion has so often arisep- anid parties' have been so
frequently subjected o .unnecessary-expense in bringing causes
here, in which a writ. of error or appealto this Court would not
lie, that we have thought this a fit occasion to state the principles upon which the CQurt have constantly acted, and which may
now be regarded as tjie law of the Couft..
In order to give this Court jurisdiction under the twenty-fifth
section of the act of 1780, it must appear on the record itself,
to be one of the cases enumerated in that section: and nobthing
out of the record certified to this Court can be taken into consideration.
This must be shown: first, either by express averment, or by
necessary intendment in the pleadings in the case.
Or, secondly, by the direction given by the Court, and stated
in the exception.
Or, thirly, when the proceeding is according to the law of
Louisiana, by the statement.of facts, and of the decision, as usually made in such cases by the Court.
Or, fourthly, it must be entered on the record- of the proceedings in the Appellate Court, in cases where the record shows that
such a point may have arisen and been* decided, that it was in
fact raised and decided; and this entry must appear to have bee ,
made by the order of the Court, or by the presiding judge by order of the Court, and certified by theclerk, as a part of the record
in the State Court.
Or, fifthly, in proceedings in equity, it may be stated in the
body of the final decree of the State Court from which the appeal
is taken to this Court.
Or, sixthly, it must appear from the record that the question
was necessarily involved in the decision; and that the State Court
could not have given the judgment or decree, which they passed,
without deciding it.
We are not aware of any other modes in which the judgment
or decree of a State Court can lawfully be brought before us;
and we have stated them particularly, in order to prevent, in
future, the difficulties and discrepancies which have so often
arisen on this subject.

286

SUPREME COURT.
[Armstrong et al. v. The Treasurer of Athens County.]

In the case now before us, the presiding judge of the Supreme
Court of Ohio has certified on the record that the validity of- a
statute of the state was drawn in question, on the ground that it
was repugnant to the Constitution 6f the United States, and that
the decision was in favour of the validity of said statute; and
this certificate of'the judge is certified by the clerk, as a part of
the record. We presume that the certificate of the presiding
judge was made by the authority of the Court: and as this bill
and answer show that srtch a point might have arisen, and this
certificate"on the record states that it did arise, and was decided;
the case comes within the fourth clause above mentioned, and
this Court must-take jurisdiction, and examine whether the point
socertified was rightfully decided.
An act of th~e legislature of Ohio, passed in 1840, ordered certain lands held by the -complainants to be assessed and taxed.
The defendant :was the- tax-collector. "Thebill.prays he be perpetually enjoined from enforcing the, payment of the tax, because
the lands had be dn exempted by a statute of Ohio, of 1804, which
entered'into the conditions of sale under which the complainwa.ts
held. Therefore, it is insisted, the act of 1840 violates the contract of purchase, and is void; being. cohtrary to that clause of
the Constitution of the United States; which -prohibits the states
from passing any law violating the obligation of contracts.
This i's the. only question presented by the record that we
cu examine; as the twenty-fifth section carefully reitricts this
Court to specified cases of jurisdiction, beyond which we -have
no power to go into the cause.
There are six complainants, each setting up a distinct title;.
they-su jointly-and for the six only, and not for themselves and
others, equally assessed; as in Attorney-General v. Helin, 2 Simon
and Stuart, 67; and similar cases, referred to-in Story's Equity
Pleadings,-sec. 114, 123. The Supreme Court of Ohio. having
entertained juirisdiction, this Court must tdo so likewise. The
question of misjoinder is not open to us for revision.
The immediate deeds .in fee from the trustees of the Ohio
University to complainants,.are not'set forth in the pleadings: we
take it, however, that they contain no. coniditipn exempting the
lands from taxation, as the bill is, founded on the assumption
that the seventeenth section of the act of 1804 entered into the

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

287

[Armrong et al .Th# Treurer of Athens County.1

contfact-anaimposed 'the exemption on the state. Whether such
an inference arises in favour of the complainants, depends on the
construction of an ordina.ce of Congress and the several acts of
the legislature of Ohio, passedin regard to these university lands.
By the ordinance of 1787, 1 L. U. S..573, a Sajle of a large
section of country was a'uthorized to be made to a company of
individuals,,from which-is reserved:

"Not more than two cpmplete townships to be given perpetually; fox the .purposes of a university, to be laid 6ff by the
purchasers as near th6 centre as may be,sQ that the.same shall be
of good land, to be applied to the intended object by the. legislature of the state."
Ohio came into the Union a, a state, in 1802. In .1804, Ohio
Land Laws, 226, an a6t.was passed est6blishing a-universi y on
the foundation of the fund secured by .Congress, to be situated,
on the reserved lands; .being townships eight and nine.. The
lands were vested in the corporation, consisting of the president
and trustees, for the sole use, benefit, and support of the university, forever."
They. were authorized to rent out the lands in separate tracts,
of not less than eighty acres, or more than two" hundred and
forty acres on a valuation of commissipners, at ayeaxly rent of
six per centum jper annum on'the -estimated value, for ninety
years, renewable forever: and from time to time a re-valuation
was to take placeto which. the subsequent rents were to correspond; with this'addition, see. 12, "That the said corporation
shall have power to demand a further -yearly-rnt on said lands"
and tenements, not exceeding the amount of tax imposed on property of like description by the state; which rents shall be paid
at such time and place, to such person, and collected in such
manner, as the corporation shall direct." -The seventeenth section
d.eclares, "That the lands in the two townships, appronriated
and vested as aforesaid, with the buildings which are or May be
erected thereon, shall forever be exempted from all state taxes."
Thus the matter stood until 1826, when the-legislature authorized the board of trustees of the university to sell and qonvey
in fee simple, (1) all the lands situate in the college towilships,
which were not encumbere. with outstanding leases; (2) such
of said lands as' had been re-entered by the board, for a breach

288

SUPREME COURT.
(Ametrong. et a. m.The Treau

of Athens County,.]

of the conditions of the leases, or where this encumbrance had
been or might be otherwise removed; (3) to convey in fee to the
lessees, respectively, on the -payment of such sum of money as
wouliyield at an interest of six per centum per-annum'on the
sum which *7as yearly reserved in the lease.
Pursuant to this statute, the- comiplaiant s purchased and took
deeds in fee; no exemption from state taxation being contained
in the. statute under which -they.took title, or in their deeds.
The object of the incorporating act of 1804,.was to regulate a
public fund, intrusted to the management of the statesovereignty,
so as best to accomplish the intention .'fthe donor, the United
States. It was a matter of course, in the then state of the college
fund, to exempt it from taxes, in'the hands of the trustees. The
lands brought no income, and could bear no tax in: their uncultivated condition, until they passed into. the hands of 'private individuals. The tenants of the- university for -ninety years made
their own contracts, and were bound to pay the ordinary taxes
levied on the inhabitantof Ohio, not into the-state .treasury but
into that of the university. Every change in the general laws
in regard to the revenue bound them: as the value of-real esta'.e
increased, and taxes were impoped in addition to previous burdens, to such an extent the corporation of the university added
-

to the rate. of its tenants.. The lands-not leased continued ex-

empt from taxation, on the faii supposition that they brought noincome, and could bear no burdens.'
-The policy of the act of 1804 is too plain to admit of comment; and its wisdom so rhanifest as to meet with instant
sanction.
But what was the policy of the act of 1826? An entire
change of the fund-from real estate to a capital in money vesied
by loan in the state treasury, was determined on by the corporation. Leave was asked and granted by the legislature to sell the
lands, and convey them in fee simple to purchasers; giving the
tenants a preference in cases where there were existing leases.
As regarded the management and nature of the fund to sustain
the university, the act of 1804 was fo a great extent repealed;
by that act, the lessees of the corporation were governed; their
were founded on it; but with it the purchasers in fee
bad no concern, their contracts originated in a different policy,

-contracts

JANUARY TERM, 1,842.

289

[Apmnrong et aL f The Trurer.of-them County.]

and, are -sanctioned bya different statdt; the -complainants actually claim, and could only claim-by force of the act of 1826.
This act secured the-payments of no taxes to the universityms the
substitute of the state. It simply'authorzedthe corporation to
sell as an individ~al might sell; and the respective purchasers
took title as, from an, individual; they were strangers. t6 the act
of 1804, with the -exception of those 'rovided for by-the third
section of the act of 1896, the value of .whose lands were to be
governed' by the assessment of their rents under the former act,
and ;who were entitled to have deeds in, fee on the payment of
one hundred dollars for every six dollars of annual-rent assessed
upon them, disregarding the taxes. they were bounc 'by the act
of 1804 to pay to the corporation. The mode of ascertaining
the value makes no difference; all the purchasers hold mder the
act Of 1826, and cannot go behind-it; and are subject like other
persons holding lands in fee to be taxed by the state.'
t he cae relied on by the complainants as ruling this is that of
the State of New Jersey v. W.ildon, 7 Cranch, 164. 'In 1758, the
Delaware tribe of Indians agreod with the colonial government
of New Jersey, to release to the latter all- their lands in that colony south of the river Rqritan: the government purchased a tract
of, land o.- which the Indians might reside, ai& stipulated by a
legislative act, that this tract should not thereafter b6 subject to
any tax. The Delawareswished to emigrate, and join the Stockbridge tribe in New York. In 1801, thie state of New Jersey, by
a statute, authorized them to sell thdir lapds, This'act of Assembly contained no exemption from the pa .mentof taxes after the
sale. In 1803, the Indian tribe sold to Wilson: and others; ana
the commissioners appointed by orddr of th&legislature conveyed,
for and on behalf of the Indian,.to the purchasers. On the
foregoing state of facts, itwas held by this Court, that the pur3hasers being in under the first grant of 1758, to the Indian tribe,
were equally entitled to its benefits; and that no taxes could be
levied on the land.
The soundness of the decision we think undoubted. The compact with the D&laware tribe was for a cession to the government
of a large body of land; the consideration for the cession, was a:
smaller tract vested in trust for them in fee; and a further, and
very material consideration was, that the latter tract should never
VOL. XVI.-2 B
37

29.0

SUPREME COURT.
[Armstrong et a! v. The Treasurer of-Atheas Oounty.

be taxed by the government. .The parties were competent thus
to contract, as no .restriction was imposed on the colonial gdvernment, and the consideration was ample for the exemption.
The condition attached to the land; so this Court held: "The
act authorizing the Indians to sell was a mere enabling statute;
thi purchasers took from aifd under the Indian tribe, held by
virtue of the grant to them, and were, of course, entitled to all
the benefits of the contract. New Jersey had therefore no more
power to'repeal that part of 'the grant which exempted the lands
from taxation, than' he had to repeal the entire contract: and
therefore her act of 1804; repealing the clause of exemptions, was
vpid."

We think the case in Cranch compared with the one presented
by -therecord, is too dissimilar to require a particular compakson,
or further comment.
We concur with the Supreme Court of Ohio,. that the bill must
be dism:ii
f and so order.

