JANUARY TERM, 1842.

THE

MAYOR AND ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF MOBILE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM E. IIALLETT, EXECUTOR OF
JOSHUA KENNEDY, DECEASED. DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

A grant by the Spanish government, confirmed by the United States, was made of a
lot of ground in the city of Mobile running from a certain. boundary eastwardly to
the river Mobile. The land adjacent to this lot, and extending from high-water
mark to the channel of the river, in fri at of the lot, was held by the grantee as
appurtenant to the fast land above high-water mark. The city of Mobile instituted
an action to recover the same, asserting a title to it under the act of Congress of 26th
May, 1824, granting certain kots of ground to the corporation of the city of Mobile,
and to certain individuals in the said city. Held, that this lot was within the exceptions ofithe act of 1824; and no right to the same was vested in the city of Mobile
by the act.

IN error to the Supreme Court of the state of Alabama.
The case was argued by Mr. Test, for the plaintiffs in error;
and by Mr. Key and Mr. Sergeant, for the defendant in error.
Mr. Justice MCLEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought here by a writ of error from the Supreme
Court of Alabama. The plaintiffs claim title under an act of
Congress, and the decision of the State Court was again-t the tide;
whic 4, under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, gives
jurisdiction to this Court.
The -plaintiffs brought their action of trespass to try the title
to a lot of ground in the city of Mobile, bounded as followscommencing at a point on St. Louis street, in said city, sixty-six
feet west of the corner of St. Louis and Water streets, thence
north twenty-five degrees west fo the line dividing the Price claim
from the Orange Grove claim, thence parallel with St. Louis
street eastwardly to the channel of the river, thence along the
channel of the river to a point meeting the line formed by the extension of the northern boundary of St. Louis street, thence along
the north boundary of St. Louis street to the place of beginning;
with certain specified exceptions.

SUPREME COURT.
[The City of Mobile v. Hallett.]

On the trial, the following bill of exceptions was taken: "This
cause was tried at the Mobile Circuit Court, of April term, &c..
and it was, among other things, proved that the premises which
were claimed under an act of Congress, entitled 'An act granting
certain lots of ground to the corporation of the city of Mobile, and
to certain individuals of said city,' passed 26th May, 1824. were
situated north of St. Louis street, and were bounded on the west
by high-water mark, and east by the channel of the river: and
that the defendant was claimant, in possession of the land lying
immediately west, and which extended from some certain boundary eastwardly to the river, and which he held by a Spanish
grant, confirmed by the United States. It was proved further
that in the year 1824, and at the time of passing the act, Water
street terminated below St. Louis street; and that in front of the
lands which it was proved the defendant possessed in the direction, Water street was not extended or established, nor was its
future course of direction known, or in any way determined on.
Whereupon the Court charged the jury, that by the true construction of the act of Congress, the corporation of Mobile are not
entitled to the premises in question, because the defendant possessed by grant originating from the Spanish government the adjacent land extending to the river Mobile, and the claim of the
corporation was for land inme'diately west of it, extending from
high-water mark to the channel of the river, to which charge the
plaintiffs excepted."
The first section of the adt of 1824, vests in the mayor and
aldermen of the city of Mobile, for the time being, and their successors in office, for the sole use and benefit of the city, forever,
all the right and claim of the United States to all the lots not sold
or confirmed to individuals, either by that or any former act, and
to~which no equitable title existed in favour of an individual,
under that or any other act, between high-water mark and the
channel of the river, and between Church street and North
Boundary street in front of the city.
And the second section of the act, which relinquishes the claim
of the United States to the proprietors of front lots certain water
lots which they had improved; excepts from the operation of the
law, cases "where the Spanish government had made a new
grant. or order of survey for the same, during the time at which

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

263

[The City of Mobile t.Hallett]

they had the power to grant the same; in wnich case, the right
and claim of the United States shall be, and is hereby vested in
the person to whom such alienation, grant, or order of survey,
was made, or in his legal representative. Provided, tnat nothing
in the act contained shall be construed to affect the claim or
claims, if any such there be, of any individual," &c.
From both sections of the above act, it will be perceived, that
Congress carefully guarded against any interference with existing
rights. In the first section, lots sold or confirmed to individuals,
either by that or any former act to which an equitable title existed in favour of any individual, were excepted from the operation of the act; and the proviso to the second section declares
that the act shall not be so cofistrued as to affect the claims of any
individual.
From the bill of exceptions, it appears, that the defendant was
in possession of the land in controversy under a Spanish grant,
which was confirmed by the United States; and that the land
extended to the Mobile river. It was then within the exception
in the act of 1824, and no right vested in the plaintiffs. We think,
therefore, that the instruction of the Circuit Court to this effect,
was right. The judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of Alabama, and we affirm the judgment of
the latter Court.
Mr. Justice CATRo, dissenting.
I dissent from the principal opinion on sevpral grounds. It is
impossible for me to ascertain from the feair facts stated in the
rec6rd, whether the land in controversy lies in front of the city
of Mobile, as it existed in 1824. It is quite probable it lies north
of any established street running wegt from the bay, at date of
the act of Congress under which the corporation claims; and it
is clear that such street is the limit of grant on the north, as it
calls for "North Boundary street;" and it is an admitted fact that
no street bearing this name existed in 1824. It was incumbent
on the corporation, as plaintiffs, to prove tha'ttheir grant included
the premises sued for to authorize a recovery on the strength of
their own title; as they could not rely upon the weakness of
that of their adversary. Until this was done, the validity of the
statute of the United States could not be drawn in question in

264

SUPREME COURT.
[The City of Mobile v. Hllett]

the State Court. It must appear upon the face of the record,
1. That such a question might have arisen; and 2. that it was
actually made; and 3. that it was decided. For the rule, I refer
to the case of. Armstrong v. The Treasurer of Athens County,
decided at this term. Suppose it appeared by the record that
the land lay milesbove the city as it existed in 1824, and yet
the State Court had seen proper to declare that the act of Congress was void: could this Court take jurisdiction to examine
and reverse the state decision? I think not. No question on the
validity of the act could in. such case have been properly raised
or decided; because the act of Congress had no application to
the'premises sued for. It rested on the plaintiffs in error to show
in the bill of excqptions the facts that could give rise to the
question: we cannot infer the facts, to give this Court jurisdiction
under the twenty-fifth section of the act of 1789. If it be true,
that the making such a question at the bar, and its decision by
the State Court, gives jurisdiction to this Court, then the Validity
of this act of Congress may be drawn in question in any case
when the State Court sees proper to give an abstract opinion in
regard to it.
It i- supposed the description of the premises in the declaration can be referred to in this case, to aid the bill of exceptions;
which in itself is not pretended to be sufficient to raise the ques.tion on the vzalidity of the act of Congress. The declaration is
allegation, not proof. It is not referred to by the exceptions; no
fact stated.in it is recognised as -proved by the Court. The bill
of exceptions states, that the plaintiffs claimed under the act of
1824; that the premises claimed by plaintiffs were north of St.
Louis street, were bounded on the west by high-water mark, and
east by the channel of the river; and that the defendant was
claimant in possession of the land lying immediately west, and
which extended eastwardly to the river; and which he held
under a Spanish grant; and that Water street, in 1824, did not
extend so far north as the front of the land claimed by defendant; and this is all it states. I deem it wholly inadmissible in
this Court to assume jurisdiction under the twenty-fifth section,
by inference. But if it could, I should infer, rather, that the
land in dispute lay north of the front of the city, when the grant

-

JANUAkY TERM, 1842.

265

[The City of Mobile v.Hallett]

was made, than the reverse, because Water street did not extend
so far north at that time.
Secondly, If the premises are ituate south of North Baundary
street, as it existed in 1824, then, I have no doubt, the corporation
took title by virtue of the act of that year; notwithstanding that
the land of the defendant's testator; Kennedyftonted on the shore
of the river, and was bounded by the -igh-water mark. The
Mobile bay is an arm of the sea, where the-tide flows and reflows,
and is part of the ocean; and is navigable in the sense of 'the
term as applicable to 'such waters. The shores between the high
and low water marks belonged to the King of. Spain; and passed
to the United States by our treaty with France, in 1803,-as the
King of Spain held them; unless they had been granted by the"
king before the .cession to France, or at least efore -hey were
ceded to the United States, in 1803. In regard to title, no difference exists between the high lands, and those flowed by the tide.
The act of 1824 granted the lands between ordinary high-water
mark and the channel of the river to the' corporation of. Mobile.
The biU of exceptions in effect states, "That the defendant was
claimant in possession of-land lying immediately west of the
land sued for; that his claim extended to the river, ard lay
west of it; and that the lands of the plaintiffs were bounded on
the west by the high-water mark, and extended east to the channel of the river." So that the high-water mark is the common
boundary between the grants.
I concur with my brethren of the majority, that if the defendant was in possession of the land in controversy under a confirmed Spanish grant, that then such Spanish grant is excepted
from the act of 1824; and that this is the true construction of
the act, as this Court held in Pollard's heirs v. Kibb6: and it
matters not when the Spanish grant was made, so that it was
before Spain surrendered the country to the United States, for
although such grant was void, still the act of 1824 intended to
except it. This is the settled doctrine of the Court on the construction of the act.
But my brethren and myself differ as to the fact; we cannot
go out of the record; and this explicitly states that the eastern
boundary of the defendanit's land was the western boundary of
that sued for by the plaintiffs; and it is almost the only explicit
VOL. XVI.-Z
34

SUPREME COURT.
[The City of Mobile v. HHett.]

statement in the bill of exceptions. The case did not turn in the
Courts below on a conflict of boundary; but, obviously, on the
groumds assumed in the case of the same plaintiffs against Eslava, as will be'seen hereafter.
As no right to the soil below high-water mark was claimed for
the defendant, further discussion on this point might be dispensed
with: yet, as the New Jersey case of Martin v. Waddel has just
been argued for the third time in this Court, and the doctrine of
riparian rights was very fully presented, and as the authorities
are.at hand, a slight reference to them will be made.
A primary rule of construction, according to the English common law as applicable to grants of land made by the government to individuals, when they front on the shores of tide-waters,
is, that they go no further than ordinary high-water mark; and if
-the grant extends over the tide-water, taking the high land on
both sides, the land under water does not pass by the ordinary
terms of grant, applicable to high lands; because the soil under
tide-waters is a public sovereign right, and an estate to itself, in
the sovereign, held in trust .for the public use, sepazate from the
high land. This is the settled doctrine in England, as will be
seen by the case of the Royal Fishery of the Baune, 8 James 1,
reported .bySir John.Dory, 149; and by Angel, in his Treatise on
Tide-waters, App. 35, ed. of 1826.
The case was recognised as sound law by the Court of King's
Bench, in Carter v.Muscot, Lurr. Rep. 2162, it which it Issaid
"That naiigable rivers, or arms of the sea, belong to the crown,
and not like private rivers to the landowners on each side: and
therefore the presumption lies the contrary way in the one case
from what it does in the other. Here, indeed, it lies primg facie,
on the side of the king and the public." "The case of the Royal
Salmon Fishery in the river Baune, in Sir John Dory's"Reports,
is agreeable to this; and it is a very good case."
The same doctrine has been maintained in Massachusetts, as
will be seen by the case of Storer v. Freeman, 6 Mass. Rep. 435.
fn that state, a local peculiarity exists which is explained by the
Court.
5o in New York. Palmer v. Hicks, 6 Johns. 133; Mayor, &c.,
of New York v. Scott, 1 Caines' Rep. 355.' And in many subsequent cages this rule of construction is fecognised.

JANUARY TERM,

1842.

267

[The City of Mobile v. Hallett.]

I understand the same rule to app'y by force of the laws ot
Spain, to the Spanish grant under which the defendant Hallett
claims. So the Supreme Court of Alabama held in Hogan v.
Campbell, 8 Porter's Ala. Rep. 1, 24. And sce Mayor, &c. of
Mobile v,Eblava; opinion of Supreme Court of Alabama. And
I feel disinclined on this point to look beyond the decisions of
the btate Court of Alabama; if power to look beyond'it exists
in this Court, on this particular point; which I doubt.
The defendant having no right of soil to the premises sued for,
the next inquiry is, could Congress grant the land below highwater mark ? That the United States acquired the right of soil
t'ron. France, by the treaty of 1803, is not.open to question; and
that a mud-flat ilowed by tide-water is the subject of grant by
the government to an individual, I think., cannot well be doubted
by any one acquainted with the southern country; where such
valuable portions of it are mud-flats, in the constant course of
reclamation.
That the King of En.gland could so grant in the American
colonies, and that the states of this Union, where the rights of soil
are governed by the common law, can thus grant, is not an open
question. The city of New York, by the king's charter of 1730,
and by legislative acts of the state, holds a large body of land in
and about the city that was formerly entirely below high-water
mark, and that is but slightly reclaimed at this day; as will be
seen by 1 Kent's Com. 7, 85.
And I understand it to be the settled doctrine in Alabama that
the United States has power to grant the lands froX high-water
mark to the channel of the river Mobile, previous to the formation of the state constitution. So the Supreme Coure of that state
held, in Hogan v. Campbell,above cited. But the ground assumed
by that Court, amongst others, is, that by the adoption of the
state constitution, and its acceptance by Cbngress, the right of
soil to all lands flowed by tides passed to the state government
by implication,. as an incident to the state, sovereignty. And on.
the same principle was the present cause decided by that Court;
for they certify in the record before us, "That the opinion delivered in the case of the Mayor, &c., of Mobile v. Ela'va, at this
term, is decisive of the present. The consequence is, that the

268

SUPREME COURT.
[The City of Mobile v. Hallett.]

judgment of the Circuit Court is free from error, and must be
affirmed."
The case of the Mayor, &c. v. Eslava has been before us this
term, and I refer to my opinion in it for the reasons why I supposed the Supreme Court of Alabama mistaken when they declared the act of Congress void.
Assuming that the act of 1824 covered the land in controversy,
then, I am of opinion that the Supreme Court of Alabama erred
by declaring it invalid; and that the judgment ought to be
reversed.,

