JANUARY TERM, 1842.

367

MERRIT MARtTIN AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THE
LESSEE oF WILLIAM C. Ii. WADDELL, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
Ejectmeut for one hundred acres of land, covered with water, in Raritan bay, in the
township of Perth Amboy, in the state of New Jersey. The land claimed lies beneath
the navigable waters of the Raritan river and bay, where the tide ebbs ad flows; and
the principal right in dispute was -the property in the oyster fisheries in the public
rivers and bays of East New Jersey. The clqim was made under the charterd of
Charles the Second to his brother the Duke of York, in 1664 and 1674, for the
purpose of enabling him to plant a colony on the continent of America. The
land in controversy is within the boundaries of the charters, and in the territory
which now forms the state of New Jersey. The territory in thd grant, by succeeding conveyances, became vested in the proprietors of East Jersey, who con.
veyed the premises in controver y to the defendant in error. The proprietors, by the
terms of the grant to them, were originally invested with all the rights of government and property which were conferred on the Duke of York. Afterwards, in
1702, the proprietors surrendered to the crown all the powers of government, retain.'
ing their rights of private property. The defendant in error claimed the exclusive
right to take oysters in the, place granted to him, by virtue of his title under the
proprietors The plaintis in error, as the grantea of the state of New Jersey, under
a law of that State passed in 1824, and a supplement thereto, claimed fhe exclusive
right to take cysters in the same place. The point in dispute between the parties
depended upon the construction and legal effect of the letters patent to the Duke of
York, arid of the deed of surrender, subsequently made by the proprietors.
The right of the King of Great Britain to make this grant to the Duke of York, with
all of its prerogatives and powers of government, cannot at this day be questioned.
The English possessions in America were not claimed by right of conquest, but by
right of discovery. According to the principles of international law, as then understood by the civilized powers of Europe, the Indian tribes in the new world were
regarded as mere temporary occupants of the soil; and the absolute rights of property
and dominion were held to belong to the European nations by which any portion
of the country was first discovered.
The grant to the Duke of York was not of lands won by the sword, nor were the
government, and laws he was authorized to establish intended for a conquered people.
The country granted by King Charles the Second to the Duke of York, was held by
the king in his public and regal character, as the representative of the nation; and in
trust for them. The discoveries made by persons acting under the authority of the
government were for the 'benefit of the nation; and the crown, according to the
principles of the British constitution, was the proper organ to dispose of the public
domain. Cited, Johnson v. M'Intosh, 8 Vheat. 595.
When the Revolution took place, the people of each stite became themselves sovereign;
and in that character held the absolute right to all t'eir navigable waters, and the
soils under them, for their own common use, subject only to the rights since surrendered by thA constitution to the general government. A grant, therefore, made

368

SUPREME COURT.
[Maitin et al. v. Waddell.]

by their authority, must be tried and determined by different principles from those
which apply to grants of the British crown, where the title is held by a single individual in trust for the whole nation.
The dominion and property in navigable waters and the lands under them, being held
by the king as a public trust, the grant to an individual of an exclusive fishery in
any portion of it, is so much taken from the common fund intrusted to his care for
the common benefit. In such cases, whatever does not pass by the grant renains in
the crown for the benefit and advantage bf the whole.community. Grants of that
description are, therefore, construed strictly; and it will not be presumed that the king
intended to part from any portion of the public domain, unless clear and special
words are used to denote it.
The rivers, bays, bnd arms of the sea, and all the prerogative rights within the limits
of the charter of King Charles, undoubtedly, passed to the Duke of York, and
were intended to pass, except those saved in the letters patent.
The questions upon this charter are very different. It is not a deed conveying pi. ate
property, to be interpreted by the rules applicable to cases of that, description. It
was an instrument upon which was to be founded the institutions of a great political
community; and in that light it should be regarded and construed.
The object in view of the letters patent appears on the face of them. They were made
for the purpose of enabling the Duke of York to establish a colony upon the newly
discovered continent, to be governed as nearly as circumstances would permit according to the laws and usages of England; and in which the Duke, his heirs, and
assigns, were io stand ,in the place of the king, and administer the government
according to the principles of the British constitution; and the people who were to
plant this colony, and to form this political body over which he was to rule, were
subjects of Great Britain, accustomed to be governed according to its usages and
laws.
The land under the navigable waters within the limits of the charter passed to the
grantee, as one of the royalties incident to the powers of government, and were to
be held by him in the same manner, and for the same purposes that the navigable
waters of England and the soils under them are held by the crown. The policy
of England, since Magna Charta-for the last six hundred years-has been carefully
preserved; to secure the common tight of piscary for the benefit of the .public. It
would require plain language in the letters patent to the Dpkq of York, to persuade
the Court that the public and common right of fishing in navigable waters, which
has been. so long and so carefully guarded in England, and whic& was preserved in
every other colony founded on the Atlantic borders, was intended in this one iistance to be taken away. There is nothing in the chirter that requires this conclusion.
The surrender by the proprietors to Queen Anne, in 1702. was of "all the powen.
authorities, and privileges of and, concerning the governnlent of the province;" and
the right in dispute in this case was one of these privileges. No words are used for
the purpose of withholding from the crown any of its oidinary and well-known
prerogatives. The surrender, according to its evident object and megming, restored
them in the same plight and condition in which they originally came to the hands
of the Duke of York. When the people of New Jersey took possession of the
reins of govemment and took into their own hands the power of sovereignty, the

JANUARY-TERM, 1842.

369

[Martin etal. v. Waddell.]
-prerogatives and regalities which before belonged either to the crown or the parlia.
ment, became immediately and rightfully veited in the state.
Quere. Whethef on a question which depends not upon tha meaning of instruments
'formed by the people, of a sta :or by their authority, but upon the letters patent
granted by the British crown, under which certain rights are claimed by the state, on
one hand, and by private individuals, on the other, if the Supreme Court of the
state of New Jersey had been of opinion that upon the face of the charter the question was clearly in favour of the state, and that the proprietors holdizig under the
letters
patent had been deprived of theii'just rights by the erroneous judgment of the
-State Court, it'could be maintained that the decision of the Court of the state on
the construction of the~letters patent belmd'th3 Supreme Co'urt of the nifed States.
The decision of the State Court upon the letters patent by which the province was originally granted by the. Kink of Great Britafn, is unquestionibly entitled to great
weight. If the words of the letteis patent had be~d more doubtful, Quere, if the
decision of a State Court on their construc'ion, made with gieat dpliberation and
research, ought to be regarded as conclusive.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the dis:
trict of New Jersey.
The defendant in 'error, the lessee. of William C. H. Waddell,
instituted, to. April term, 1835, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of New Jersey,'an'action of ejectment, against
Merrit Martin-and others, for the recovery of certain land covered
with water, situated idi the Raritan bay, below high-water mark,
in the state of New Jersey. The defendants appeared to the suit;
and at April term,. 1837, the cause-was tried by a jury, who found
a siecial'verdict on which' judgment was afterwards entered for
the -plaintiff; froth which judgment the defendants prosecuted
this writ of error.
The case' was argued by Mr. Wall, and Mr. Wood, for the
plaintiffs in'error; and by Mr. Ogden and Mr. Wright, 'for the
defendant.
The special verdict fQund that on the 12th day of March, 1664,
certain letters patent, duly executed, were granted by Charles
the Second, then Kiig of England, to James, Duke of York; and
set forth the letters patent at large. The letters patent stated that
the King,"For divers good causes and considerations us thereunto
moving, having of our special grace, certain knowledge, and
mere motion, given and granted, and by these- presents, for us,
our heirs and successors, do give and grant unto our dearest bro47

810

SUPREME COURT.
[Msatda et al, v. WaddeIL]

ther, James, Duke of York, his heirs and assigns, all that, part. of
the main land- of New England, beginning at a certain place
called or known by the name of St. Croix, next adjoining to New
Scotland, in America; and thence.extending along the seacqast,
unto a certain place called Petuaquine, or Pemaquiff,'and so up
the river th'reof. to the farthest hea:d bf'the sanre, as it tendeth
northward; and extending from thencer to the river of Kenne.beque, and so upwards by the hortest dourse to the riverof Cdnada
northward; and-also all that island orislands, commonly called by
the several name or nAmes of Matowacks or Long Islatid, situate,
lying and being towards the west of Cape Cod, and tne Narrow
igansetts, abutting upon the main land between the two rivers
there, called or.known by the several names of.Connecticut or
Hudson rivers ;.together also with the said river,6lled -uda-,n
river, and the lands from the west side-of Connecticut to the. east
side of Delaware b~y And also all.those several islands called
or known by the names of Martin's Vineyard -and Nantucks, or
otherwise Nantuckett, (whereof the tenements aforesaid; with' the
appurtenances in the declaration aforesaid mentioned are parcel;)
Logether with all the lands, islands, soils, rivers, harbours, mines,
minerals, quarries, woods, marshes, waters, lakes, fishings, hawkipgs, huntings, and fowlings, and all other royalties, profits,
commodities and hereditamentsto said several islands, lands, and
premises belonging and aipertaining, with their and every of
thdir appur(enances, and all our estate, right; title, interest, benefit,-advantage, claim and demand, of, itl, or to the said lands and
premises, or any part, or parcel thereof, and the reversion and
reversions, remainder- and remainders, together with the vearly
and.other the rents, revenues, and profits, of all*an& singular the
said premises, and of every part and parcel- thereof, to have andto hold all and singular'the said lands, islands, hereaitaments, and
premisesr, with their, and every of tfeir appurtenances, herbby
given and. granted, or hereinbefore mentioned, to be given and
granted 'unto our dearest brother James; Duke of York, his heirs
and-assignis forev'er -to be holden of us, our heirs and successors,
as of our ianor ot East Greenwich, in our county of Kent, in
free and common soccage, and not in capitie, nor by knight service, yielding and rendering. And the same James, Duke of
York, doth for himself, his heirs' and assigns, covenant and pro-

JANUARY TERM, i842.
[Marf et a]. v. Waddel+

371

mise to yield and render unto our heirs and successors, of and for
the- same, yearly and every 'yar,forty bea: ar-skins, when they
shall be demanded, or within ninety days after. And. we do
further of our special gracey certain' knowledge, and mere 'motions, for us, our heirs and successors, give and grant unto our said
dearest brother James, Duke of York, his heirs, deputies, agents,
commissioners and assigns, by these presents, full and absolute
power and authority to correct, punish, pardon, govern, and rule
-all such the subjects of us, our heirs and successors, as shall from
time to time adventure themselves into any the parts"or places
aforesaid, or that shall or do at any time hereafter inhabit witfin
the same, according to such laws, orders, ordinances, directions
and instruments, as by our said dearest brother or his assign,
shall be established, and in defect thereof, in case of necessity,
according to the good discretions of his deputies, commissioners,
officers or assigns respectively; as well in all causes and matters
capital and criminal, as civil, both marine and qthers, so always
as the said statutes, otdinances and proceedings, be not contrary
to,'but as near as convenently nsay be, agreeable to the laws,
statutes and government of this 'our realin of England; and
saving and reserving to us, ouir'heirs, and successors, the receiving, hear..,g, and determining of the appeal and appeals of all or
any person or persons of, ir, or -belonging to the territories or
islands aforesaid, in o r touching any judgment.or sentence to be
there made orgiven. And further, that it shall aid may be lawful, to and for our said dearest brother, his heirs and assigns, by
these 'presents, from time to time, to nominate, make, constitute,
ordain, and confirm by such name or names, stile, or stiles as to
him or them shall seem good, and likewise to revoke, discharge,
change and ilter, as well all and singular 7 the governors, officers
and ministers, which hereafter- shall be by him or them thought
fit and needful to be made or used within the aforesaid parts and
islands; and also to make, ordain and establish all'manner of
orders, 'laws, directions, instructions, forms and ceremonies of
government and magistracy, fit and necessary for and concerning
the government bf the territories and islands aforesaid, so always
that the same be not conTrary to the laws anid statutes of this our
realm of England, but as near is may be 6greeable thereunto,
and the same at'all times hereafter to put in execution) or abroi-

SUPREME COURT.
(Martin et a]. v. Waddell.]

gate, revoke, or change, not only within the precinctsof the said
territories or islands, but also upon the seas, in going and coming
to and from the same, as he or they in their good discretion shall
think to be fittest for the good of the adventurers and inhabitants
there; and we do further, of our own special grace, certain knowledges and mere motions, grant, ordain, and declare that such
governors, officers and ministers, as from time to time shall be
authorized and appointed in manner" and form aforesaid,shall
and may have full power and authority to use and exercise martial law, in cases of rebellion, insurrection, and mutiny, in as large
and ample a manner as our lieutenants in our counties within our
realm of England have or ought to have, by force of their commission of lieutenancy, or any law or statute of this our realm;
and we do further, by these presents, for us, our heirs and successors, grant'unto our said dearest brother James, Duke of York,
his- heirs and assigns, that it shall and may be lawful to and for
the said James, Duke of York, his heirs and assigns, in his or their
discretion, from time to time, to admit such and. so many person
or persons to trade and traffic uno and.within the said territories
and islands aforesaid, and into every or any part or parcel thereof, and to have, possess, and enjoy any lands or herdditaments in
the parts and places aforesaid, as they shall think fit, according to
the laws, orders, constitutions, and ordinances by our said brother,
his fieirs, deputies, commissioners, and assigns, from time to time
to be made and established by virtue of,.and according to the true
intent :and. meaping of these presents; and under, such conditions, reservations, and agreements as our said brother, his heirs
or assigns, 'shall set down, order, direct and appoint, and not
otherwise, as aforesaid; and we do further of our special grace,
ceitain knowledge, and mere motion, for us our heirs and successors, give and grant unto our said dearest -brother, his heirs and
assigns, by these presents, that it shall and may be lawful to and
for him, them, or any of them at all, and every time and times
hereafter, out of any. of our realms or dominions whatsoever, to
take, lead, carry, atid transport in and into their voyages, and fdr
and towards the plantations of our said territories andislands, all
such and so many of our-loving subjects, or any other strangers
being not prohibited or under restraint, that will become. our
loving subjects, ant. live under our allegiance, as shall willingly

JANUTARY TERM,- '1842.

373

[Martin et a. v. WaddeIL]

accompany them in the said voyages'; together -with all such
clothing, implements, furniture, and ther. things usually tr nsported, and not prohibited, as shall be necessary for the inhabitants of the said islands and territories, and for' their use and
defence thereof, and managing and carrying on the trade with
the people there; and Mnpassing and returning to and fro, yielding and paying to us, our heirs and successors, the customs and,
duties, due and payable, according to the laws and customs of
this realm.
And we also, for us, our heirs, and successors, grant to our said
dearest brother James, Duke of York, his heirs and assigns, and
to all and every such governor or governors, or other officers or
ministers as by our said dear brother, his heirs or assigns, shall
be appointed, to have power and authority of governmeni and
command in or over the inhabitants of the said territories or
islands, that they and every of them, shall and lawfully may from
time to time, and all times hereafter, forever, for their - several
defence and safety, encounter, expulse, repel, and resist, by force
of arms, as well by sea as by land, and all' ways and means whatsoever, all such person and persons, as without the special license
of our said dearest brother, his heirs or assigns, shall attempt to
inhabit within the several precincts and limits of our said territories and islands, -and also all and every such pers6n and persons whatsoever, as shall enterprise or attempt at any time
hereafter, the destruction, invasion, detriment, or annoyance to
the parts, places, or islands aforesaid, or any part thereof; and,
lastly, our will and pleasure is, and we do hereby declare and
grant, that these our letters patent, or the enrolment thereof, shall.
be good and effectual in the law, to all intehts and purposes
whatsoever, notwithstanding thenot reciting or mentioning of the
premises or any part thereof, or the metes or bounds thereof, or
of any former or other letters patent or grants heretofore made or
granted of the premises, or of atiy part thereof, by us or of any of
our progenitors, unto any other person- or persons whatsoever,
bodies politic or corporate, or any act, law, or -other restraint,
uncertainty, Or imperfection whatsoever, to the contrary in anywise notwithstanding; although express mention of the true
yearly value or certainty of the premises, or any of them, or of
any other gifts or grants by us, or by any of our progenitors or
VOL. XVI.- I

$74

SUPRElME COURT.
[Martin at al. v. Waddell.]

predecessors heretofore made, to the said James, Duke of York,
in these presents is not made, or any statute, act, ordinance,' provision, proclamation, or restriction heretofore had, made, enacted,
ordained, or provided, or any other matter, cause, or thing whatsoever, to the contrary thereof in anywise notwithstanding."
'-The special verdict further found tf-at, onthe 23d day of June,
1664, James, Duke of York, by indenture conveyed to Lord
Berkley'and Sir George Carteret, for a competent sum of money,
all that tract of land adjacent to New England, lying and being
to the westward of Long Island, and Manhitas Island, and
*bounded on the east, part by the main sea and part by Hudson's
river, having upon the west, Delaware bay or river, and exiending southward to the main ocean as far as Cape May, at the
mouth of Delaware bay, and t$o the northward as far as the
northernmost branch of the said bay or river of Delaware, which
is in forty-one degrees and forty minutes of latitude, and crossing over theficl in-a straight line to Hudson's river, in forty-one
degrees of latitude; which said, tract of land so as aforesaid demised, was, by the terms of the said indenture, thereafter to be
called New Cosarea. or New Jersey, and was a portion and part
of the said tract of land, so as aforesaid granted by the said
Charles the Second to the said James, Duke of York, and of
which said tract so as aforesaid demised, the tenants aforesaid,
with the appurtenances in the"- declaration aforesaid mentioned,
are parcel. To have and to hold to the said John, Lord Berkley,
and Sir George Carteret, from the day next before the day of the
date of the said indenture, for one whole year thence next ensuing. By virtue whereof, the said John, Lord Berkley, and Sir
George Carteret, into the tenements so as aforesaid demised with
the appurtenances entered, and were possessed thereof, for the
term aforesaid, and being so thereof possessed, afterwards to wit,
on the ,twenty-fourth day of the same month of June, in the year
last aforesaid, by a certain indenture made between the said
James, Duke of York, of the one part, and the said John, Lord
Berkley, and Sir George Carteret of the other part, bearing date
the same day and year last aforesaid, for and in consideration of
a competentsum of good and lawful money of England, to the
said James, Duke of York, paid by the said John, Lord Berkley,
and the said Sir George Carteret, he, the said James, Duke of

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

S75

'Mart et 9l. v.Waadell.]
York, granted, bargained, sold, leased, and confirmed to the said
John, Lord Berkley and Sir George Carteret, and .to' their heirs
and assigns forever, they then being in their actfal possession, the
tenements last aforesaid, with the appurtenances, so as aforesaid,
to be called New Ceesaraea oi New Jersey; and also, all rivers,
mines,, minerals, woods, fishings, hawkings, h untings, and fowlings, and-all other royalties, profits, commodities,'and herediaments whatsoever, to the said land and premises belonging, or in
anywise appertaining, with their and every, of their appurtenances, in as full and ample a manner as the 'same were granted
to the said Sames, Duke of York, by the before-recited letters
patent, to have and to hold the tenements last aforesaid, with the
appurtenances and every of them, unto the said John, Lord Berkley, and Sir George Carteret, their heirs and assigns forever.
-The special verdict further found that afterwards, on the 29th
day of June, 1674, King Charles the -Second granted to James,
-Duke.of York, and on the 28th and 29th days of July, 1674,
Yimes, Duke of York, for a competent sum of mohey granted and
conveyed to Sir George Carteret, all that tract of land adjacent to
New England, lying and being to the westward of Long Island
and' Manhitas Island, and bounded on the east, part by the main
sea; and part by -udson's river, extending southward as far as a
certain creek, called Barnagat, being about the middle between
Sandy Point and Cape May, and :bounded on .the west, in -a
straighf line from. said creek, called Barnagat, to a certain creek
in Delaware river, called Renk'okus Killi and thence up the said'
Delaware Tiver, to the northernmost branch thereof, in latitude
forty-one degrees and forty minutes, and on the north, crossing
over in a straight line to Hudson's iiver, in forty-one degrees of
latitude, (of which said tract of land and premises.last mentioned
and demised, the tenements aforesaid, with the appurtenances in
the declaration aforesaid mentioned are parcel,) together with all
mines, minerals, woods, rivers, fishings, hawkings, huntihgs, and
fowlings, and all the royalties, profits, commodities, and hereditaments whatsoever, to the said last-mentioned tenements belonging, or.irL anywise appertaining: with their and every of their
appurtenances; in as full and ample a manner as the same were
granted to the said James, Duke ofYork, by the before-recited
letters patent; -to have and to hold the tenements last aforesaid

376

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin-et al. v. WaadefL1

with te 'appurtenahces, .and every of them unto the said Sir
George Cartaret, his heirs and assigns forever.. And, further,
that previous-to the execution of the, said 1st- nentioned lettern
patent, aiid of the said several herein before-meitioned indenturefollowing the same, to wit, on the hirteenth day, of June, ir. thc
year of our Lord one thousand six hundred and seventy-four, by
a certain proclamation published andpromuged on the same day
and year last aforesaid, by the said Charles the Sdcond : he, the
said'Charles the .Second, did command and-charge all persons
whatsoever,. inhabiting the said province, of -New Cwsarca or
New Jersey, whereof twe tenements, aforesaid, with the appurtenances in the declaration af5resaid mentioned, are parcel, fo yield
obedience to the laws and government which were or should be
thereafter established in-the said province, by the said Sir George
Carteret,'(who, in the Words of the said proclamation, had -the
sole. power under Mim, the said Charles the Second, to settle and
dispose, of the said province, upon such terms and conditions as
to him, the said Sir George Carteret, should appear fit,) upon
pain of incurring the hign displeasure of the said Charles the
Second, and of being proceeded against according to law
The jury further found that afterwards by conveyances from
*Sir George Qarteret to divers persons, and by conveyances from
Lord Berkley and the will of Sir 'George Carteret. and sundry
mesne conveyances and deeds of partition, set forth in the special'verdict, and by- a deed of confirmation, from the. Duke of
York, the part of the province of New JeTsey, called East New
Jersey, of-which the premisesin this ejectment. are part, became
vested in twenty-four proprietors, and all rights, benefits, 'and
advantages, and all and every the isles, islands, rivers, mines,
minerals, woods, fishings, hawkings, huntings, fowlings, and all
other royalties, governments, powers, forts, franchises, harbours,
profits, commodities, and here'ditaments whatsoever, unto the said
easterly part of the said province of New Jersey, belonging or
in anywisp appertaining, with their, and every of their appurtenances; and all the estate,,right, title, and interest, claim and
advantage, whatsoever, as.well in law as in equity, of the saica
grantors, and each and every of them, of, in, unto, and out of
said easterly part of the said province of New Jersey, and of
every part and parcel -thereof, and the reversion and reversions,

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

377

[Martin et Lv. Waddell

remaider and r6mainders, of tie same, and of every parn and
parcel thereof, and all the rents, duties, serviceds, resbrved upon
.ny estates or grants theretofore maade by the said -Lord Berkley
and Sir George Carteret, or by any persons claiming any estate,
interest, or authority, from, by, or under either of them, of any
part of the. said premises thereby conveyed unto .the said Sir
George Cartereti to have and to hold to. the said Sir George 'Carteket, and to his heirs 'and assigns in severalty, to the sole and
only use of the said Sir George Carteret, his heirs and assigns
forever; and that it was further agreed and covenantea in the
said indenture, quintipartite,.that the'part of the said province
of New Jersey, therein conveyed to the said Sir George Carteret
should thereafter be known and distinguished. by the name of
East New Jersey.
The jurors further found that on the fourteenth.day of March,
1682, the Duke of York, in consideration of a competent sum of
money for the better extinguishing of all such claims and demands as the said Duke of York, and his heirs might in anywise
have, of, or in the premises, with the appurtenances. called East
New Jersey, as aforesaid, did grant, bargain, sell, release, convey,
and confirm unto the said twenty-four-proprietors, their heirs and
assigns, all' the premises, with the appurtenances so as aforesaid,
called East New Jersey, and every part and parcel therebf, together with all islands, bays, rivers, waters, forts, mines, miaprals,
quarries, royalties, franchises, whatsoever, to the same belonging,
or in anywise appertaining, and also, the free use of all bays,
rivers, and waters leading unto, or lying between the said lastmentioned premises, or any of them, for free. trade, navigation,
fishery, or otherwise, to have and to hold, to the said twenty-four
proprietors, their heirs and assigns forever to the only proper use
and behbof of the said twenty-four proprietors, their heirs and
assigns forever. And that the said Duke of York, by the said lastmentioned ijadenture, did also grant, transfer, and assign to the said
twenty-four proprietors, and to their heirs and assigns, proprietors
of the said province of East New Jersey for the time being, all and
every such, and the same powers, authorized jutidictions, govern.
ments, and other matters and things whatsoever, which by.the said
several above-recited letters patent, from the said Charles the Second, to the said Duke of York, or either of them, were granted or
212

48

378

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin it al. v, Waddell.]

intended to be granted-, to be exercised by the said Duke of York,
his heirs, or assigns, his or -their-agents, or officers in or upon the
said premises, by the said last-mentioned indenture, confirmed or
intended to be thereby coifirmed, and every of them, to be beId,
enjoyed, exercised, anid executed by the said twentyrfour proprietors,.their-heirs and assigns, proprietors of the said last-mentioned
premises, for-the time being, as fully, amply, to, all intents, constructions, and'proposes, as -the said Duke of York, or his heirs
could or ought to hold, enjoy, use, exercise, or execute the same
by force and 'virtue of the said seveial above-recited letters
patent or otherwise, howsoever..
The jurors further found that.King Charles the Second, on the
twenty-third day of November, 1683, by an instrument in writing, duly executed, and reciting the said la~t-mentioned indenture,
from the said. Duke of York, to the said, twenty-four proprietors,
did recognise their right to the soil and government of the said
province of East New Jersey, and did strictly charge and command the planters and inhabitants, and all other persons concerned
in the same, to -submit and yield all due obedience to the laws
and government .of the said twenty-four proprietors, their heirs,
and assigns, as'absolate proprietors and governors thereof, who
in the words of the said instrument in writing, had the sole power
and right, derived under the said Duke of York, from him the
said Charles the Second, to settle and dispose of the said province
of East New Jersey, upon such terms and conditions as to the
twenty-four proprietors, their heirs and assigns, should seem
meet, as also, to their deputy or deputies, agents, lieutenants, and
officers lawfully commissioned by them, according to the powers
and conditions granted to them.
The jurors further found that afterwards, on the fifteenth day
of April, 1702, the said twenty-four proprietors, and the other
persons, in whom the whole estate, right, title, and interest in the
said province of East New. Jersey, were vested at the said lastmehtioned date as proprietors thereof, by an instrument in writing, under their hands and seals, bearing date the same day and
year last .aforesaid, did for themselves, and ttheir heirs, surrender
and yield up unto Anne, Queen 'of England, &c., and to her
heirs and successors, all the -powers and authorities in the said
letters patent granted, -to correct.,furnish pardon, govern, and rule

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

379

[Martin et al. v. Waddell.]

all or any of her sail.maje t's subjects or others, who then were as
inhabited orthereafter might adventure into r.inhabit within the
said province of East New Jersey; and also to nominate, ni.ae,
cbnstitute, ordain, .and confirm any laws, -orders, ordinanices, directions, and instruments for.those' purposes or any of them,.afid
to nominate, constitute or appcint, ievoke, discharge, change, or
alter any governor or governors, officers or ministers, which were,
or should be appointed within the said province, and to 'make,
ordain, and establish, any orders, laws, directions, instruments,
forms or ceremonies' of government and magistracy, for or con'cerning the, same, or on the sea in going to or coming from the
same, or to Eput. in execution, or abrogate, revoke or change such
as were already made for or concerning s'ieh gdvernment or.any
of them; and also all the powdrs and authofities tiy the 'said.
*letterspatent granted, to use and exercise martial faw in the said
province of East New Jersey, and to admit. any person or persons to trade or traffic there; and if encountering, repelling and
resisting by force.of rrms, any person or persons attempting to
inhabit there without the lice' ie of them, the said proprietors,
their heirs and isigns, and all other the powers, authorities, and
privileges of, and'concerning the government of the province last.
.aforesaid, or the inhabitants thereof, which.-were gianted
or
mentioned to be granted by the said several above-recited letters
patent, or either of them. And that the same Queen Anne, afterwards, to wit, on the 'seventeenth day of th same month April,
in the year last aforesaid, did accept of the said.surrender of the
said powers of government, so made by the said proprietbri in
and over the premises last aforesaid..
And the jurors further found 'that, afterwards, on the 251h.of
November, 1824, the legislature of the state of New Jersey
passed an act which declared that the shore and land covered by
the waters of the sound and Raritan river, inthe township of
Perth Amboy, should be set apart for the purpbse of planting and
growing oysters, subject to a rent to be paid to the state of New
Jersey, and authorized.the commissioners, acting under the law,
to permit the owners of the adjdcept land to stake off, lots within
the surveys of the commissioners ;, which' sirveys of the land
covered with water, the commissioners were directed to make.
The jury found that the defendants in the ejectment,'having com-

380

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin et al. v. Waddell.]

plied with the regulations of the act of Assembly, were in possession of the lands covered with water, for the recovery of which
the ejectment was brought.
The jury found the premises in dispute are situated beneath
the waters of the,Raritan river and bay, where the tide ebbs and
flows. That the plaintiffs in the ejectment claimed title under
regular 'conveyances from those to whom the proprietors of East
Jersey had given deeds in fee-simple for the premises claimed by
them.
The cause was argued at large, by the counsel for the plaintiffs
and the defendants, on many poinis; but the decision of the Supreme Court having been givenexclusively on the questions presented on the construction and effect of the letters patent, and
the effect of the surrender by the proprietors of East Jeisey to
Queen Anne, in 1702, the arguments of counsel on these questions only are given.
Mr. Wood, (with whom was Mr. Wall,) for the plaintiffs in error.
It is admitted that the KIing of Great Britain, Charles the Second, had the power to grant the territory of New Jersey, as private property, and that he did so grant it, including private rivers,
ordinary mines, &c., This territory was discovered and held, not
for revenue, but for colonization and settlement. After the grant,
it was held by the proprietors as private property detached from
government, and not as demesne lands of the government. This
is conformable to usage. The proceeds of sales of the territory
went int6 the private purse of the proprietors, and was not applied to the- fiscal purposes of the government. Taxes were
resorted to under the proprietary government to raise revenue.
-It is also admitted, that the king had power to create colonial
and palatine gdvernments, and juisdictions. This power was
disputed and denied after the Revolution of 1688; but this did not
operate retrospectively, and destroy such patents as were already
granted.
It is also admitted that the surrender to Queen Anne embraced
no private prbperty; but that the same was all reserved to the
proprietors.
To enable the plaintiff below to recover, he must be able to
maintain two positions, 1st, That he has a possessdry title to the

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

381

(Mardn et al. v. Waddell.]

premises in question, the soil of this navigable water: and, 2dly,
That there was not a common right of fishery in the people at
large in the premises in question.
In ejectment, the party must recover possession of the soil, and
therefore he must show a possessory title.
If there was in the people of -New Jersey a common right of
fishery, the legislature exercising plenary sdvereignty could unquestionably dispose of it; modify it, lease it, and exercise every
act of ownership and control over it. Of course, the lease of it
under the statute to the defendant would be good. The use and
occupancy of the premises by.te defendant, is only commensurate with that right. He does not pretend to take absolute
possession qf the soil. He cannot be ejected from a possession
commensurate with his right.
Has the plaintiff shown a possessory title to the soil?
All titles in New Jersey go back to the grant of Charles the
Second to the Duke of York; and much depends upon the sound
construction of this grant, in reference to the premises in question.
There are, according to our view, two prominent errors in that
opinion of which we complain; and it may contribute to a right
understanding of the argument to point them out at the threshold.
First, In a grant by the king of prerogative rights to a subordinate governor, the regalia thus granted continue attached, to the
government, in the same way as when they were in the hands of
the crown. In the grant of the right to an individual, they become mere private property-private franchises. The distinction,
as will be shown, was in the mind of the Circuit Court; but it
did not make such a vivid impression as to induce the Court to
carry it out to its legitimate results.
Secondly, It is thought the Court erred in clothing the king with
too despotic a power over the territory in question---treating him
as'an absolute despot, independent of parliament, and in considering the grant as transferring to the duke such absolute powers.
It is admitted this royal grant has a double .aspect--a public
and a private aspect. The plaintiff below must succeed in bringing his claim under the second point if he succeed at all.
This country was held by right of discovery, and not conquest.
It was only retaken from the Dutch and claimed on the ground

382

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin et aL]v. Waddell.]

-

of this prior right of discovery. Smith's New JQrsey Laws, 36, 87;
1 Story on the Constitution, 136; Chitty's Prerog. 29,- 30; Canal
Commissioners v. The People, 5-.Wend. 445; Bogardus v. Trinity
Church, 4 Paige,.178.
The inhabitants emigrating to this country, carried with them
the laws of England, so far as they were applicable to their situation. 4 Paige, 178 , 2 P. Wms. 75 ; 2 Salk. 411 ; Clark's Colonial Law, 7; 1 Chalmers's Opinions, 198; 2 Chalmers's Opinions,
202. The use of fisheries and rivers, as common property, was
peculiarly applicable to their situation.
If claimed by conquest, the English when invited to settle
there, would carry with them their own laws ind constitutional
rights. 1 Story on the Constitution, 111, and cases cited.
Again, If claimed by conquest, even as to the conquered, the
moment English law is introduced by proclamation or otherwise,
it is irrevocable by the king. Cewp. R. 213. Here it was introduced in the royal grant itself.
The great principles of British liberty must be considered, as
accompanying this royal charter, and it must be construed accordingly.
It is matter of history, that the Stuarts, to encourage emigration, introduced into these colonies the broadest principles of
British liberty. The fundamental constitutions of New York
show this. " The people have always appealed to Magna Charta
as the foundation of American as well as British liberty.
There is no language in this royal grant that will pass the sea
and its arms as private property.
We must here treat it in the same way as if the king had
granted a tract of land to a private individual. The plaintiff below can derive no aid from its being a public grant. of territory
and government. In that sense, we admit, the rivers pagsed; and
will presently,.show how they passed.
-We contend, first, that 'the sea and its arms were part of the
regalia or prerogative rights of the crown.
*And, secondly, that they could! not, upon a sound construction
of this charter, pass as private property to the Duke in his private
capacity.
First, They are always called royal rivers. Banne Case,
Davies' Rep. 155; Shultze, Aouatic Rights, 1 Bi. Com. 264. Pre-

JANUARY TERM, i842.

S83

[Martia et a. v. Wadaell.]
rogative rights are such as are pre-eminently in the king by way
of preference over his subjects. Such as royal mines, wrecks,
royal fish.,
Such rights as are held by the king on the same common
ground as a subject holds and are not prerogative rights.
Such, for instance, -as private rivers and the ordinary demebne
lands of the crown. Chitty's Prerog. 4. Royal rivers arp preeminently in the king. Private rivers are presumed to be owned
by the adjacent proprietors. Not so with public rivers; they are,
at common law, in the king.
Again,' The sea-and its arms are peculiarly and pre-eminently
in the king, iri respect to their uses; all of which, at common law,
are public, and they are held by the king for the public benefit,
viz., navigation, fishery, the mooring of vessels,, which is subject
to the jus preventionis. Angel on Tide-waters, 158.
The private rights arise only after the character is changed, as
in the case of alluvion, wharfing out, draining, &c. Such rights
until consummated are mere possibilities.
The right in the sea and its arms centres in the king for conservation of the public use. As a highway is called in the law
the king's highway.
The counsel for the proprietors in Moody v. Arnold contended
there was no distinction between the rights of the king, inasmuch
as they were all held by the king, under his prerogative or political capacity. . Halsted, 58. This argument confounded the distinction between the capacity in *hich the king holds, and the
rights held by him. Though he holds all in his political capacity,
he holds some pre-eminently as regalia or royal rights. General
words, "1rivers, mines," &c., do not pass royal rivers, royal mines.
Cases of Mines, Plowd. 333, 334, 336; Alton Wood's Case, 1, Co.
46 b; 16 Viri. 597, Prerog. Ka. sec. 27; 0hitty's Prerog. 392;
Canal Commissioners v. The People, 5 Wend. 451.
Nothing passes against'the king by implication. Banne Case,
Davies's Rep. 157; Jure Coronm, 117; 7Conn. Rep. 200. The term
"rivers" will not pass the soil. Davies's Rep, 154. The term's
"1ex certa scientia,"' &c., never have the effect to enlarge thecons truction so as to embrace prerogatiye rights, in such general terms,
Alton Wood's. Case, I Co. 46 b, and the above case in 16 Viner.
Such general terms as "all royalties," will not have the effect.

384

SUPREME COURT.
(Martin et ali,. W ddelL]

7 Conn. Rep. "200. But in the grant in question, it is all royalties
&
appertaining to the premises granted. "Apnurtenances
" will pass
nothing, except such things as are strictly appurtenant. Chitty's
Prerog. 392. It will not be pretended that royal rivers are
appurtenant to the adjacent private land.,
These doctrines were fully maintained in this Court, in the ease
of Charles River Bridge, in 11 Peters. It will also be borne. in
mind, that this ancient grant is to be construed, mreference to the
rights of the prerogative, as then understood
We shall now view this royal charter in its other aspects as a
great state paper, containing a transfer of tertitory with the
powers of government, according'to the principles of the British
constitution.

In this respect it is to be construed upon liberal principles of
publiclaw. We admit that under ihis aspect of the case, the re-

galia passed. And we contend that, if the grants did contain
language sufficient to pass them on technical grounds, they will be
construed to pass to the duke as the regalia of the government;
he standing in the .place of the crown, to hold them as the king
held them. All the regalia, such as the sea and its arms, or 'Ile
royal rivers, royal mines, wrecks, &c., &c., were held by the duke
and the proprietory government under him, as attached to the
government. The duke being in the place of the king in respect
to them. 1 Halsted, 77, 78.
This construction is supported by considering,.First, The character and purpose in and for which the territory was held by the
king. Secondly, The design of the royal grants.First, The territory was held and could only. be held for settlement by colonization or otherwise. If held to lie idle, there
would be the same objection to it as to the Indian title.
Second, The design of the grant was to col6nize and settle
with British subjects, in order to consummate the title and extend the British dominions. The purpose was, as the grant
purports on is face, to introduce British law, ard the British
constitution.
To effect these great objects, it was indispensable that all the
regalia or -royal rights should -be beld here as they were in
England, attached to the governmnt, and for the benefit of
the people.

JANUAk1Y TERM, 1s42.

85

[Martn et al. v. Waddell.]

Prerogative rights are held for the benefit of the community;
mote especially those charged with the common use, as royal
rivers. "Chitty's Prerog. 4; 4 T. R. 410; The Elisha, 5 Rob.
Adnm. Rep. 159. According to this view of the grant, the sea adnd
its arms may correctly be said to be appurtenant to the government and tetritory as a colonial domain.
This construction is illustrated by the cases of counties palatine.
The count palatine derives his name, a pelatio, from his standing in the place of the king, and indictments are charged against
- hil peace. 4 Inst. 204. Hence lands in a county-palatine, when
granted by the count, pass within livery. 4 Inst. 206. Lands
may be holden of him in capite, though they cannot be 6f a private subject. Davies's Rep. 181.
The regalia are" not private, as they would be, in the handsof
an"ordinary subject; The count palatine can, establish Courts
ofjustic6.
The regalia in a county palatine are incident
to ine gqvernnjent. -Boss v. Bishop of Durham, 2 Bulst. 226, 227. It is sufficient to prescribe for franchises not granted-by showing. a
county palatine;. 4 Com. Dig, Franchise, D) 7.;
A county palatine -is an inferior subordinate jurisdiction in the
heart of the kingdom, with mere judicial and admihistrative
-powers,
A colonial government/extends over a large territory, and is
clothed with high legislative and executive power as well as
judiial-with complete, though subordinate sovereignty.
If the regalia pass in a county palatine, as incident to the subordinate jurisdiction, the. reasons for passing them as incident
to the colonial go.vernent, to be held and applied to the benefit
of the colonists, applies with tenfold force.
The surrender by the proprietors of the government to Queen
Anne, included a surrender of all the regalia, such as wrecks,
royal rivers, &c. 1st, Impliedly. 2d, In express terms.
1st, Impliedly.-If the above view taken of the grant be cbrrect, this follows of course
If these regalia were by the royal grant converted into mere
private franchises in the hands of individuals, as prvate property.,
detached altogether from the government, as we havre admittqd.
VOL. XVI.-2 K
49
-

SUPREME COURT.
"MartinaetaL. v. Waddell.]

to be in the case with the soil and private rivers, then they were
not surrendered. If they continued concomitants 6f the government, then clearly they were surrendered. What is a surrender
but a rettansfer? - If the regalia pass incidentally by the creation
or transfer of the sovereign power, they .will, of course, pass by
the surrender or retransfer thereof.. A king de *factotakes the
jure ;regalia. - Chitt. Prerog. 205.
But there. are in this surrender e4ress terms, apt and:sufficient to retransfer-the regalia to the crown.
. They surrender all powers, authorities, and privileges of and
concerning the government, and the inhabitants thereof. Learning
and Spicer, 6'15.
"Privileg6s" embraces the regalia in their hands.. It was-so
understood by the proprietors. Sec. 13. It is so used at common
law. 7 Com.'Dig. Prerog. D. 32.
If only the high political powers of government were designed
to be surrendered, why was this language inserted in the surrender? The government itself embraces all these high political
powers, and is senseless without them. All the minor jure regalia concerned theigovernment and the inhabitants.
The protocol is referred to,, Leaming and Spicer, 590, 596,
wherein it is stated that the rights in the seas cannot well be circumscribed. The rights of the seas there referred to, were wrecks,
royal fish, &c.
Now, any one familiar with the jurisprudence of New Jersey
knows that the proprietors never claimed or pretended, after
the surrender, to claim these rights. The error here arises from
attending to the protocol or negotiation, instead of the surrender
itself. The proprietors negotiated for a reservation of those rights,
like the Duke of Athol. But though the commissioners were
at first disposed to -concede some of them, 'yet finally none of
them were reserved in the surrender. But this attempt on the
part of the proprietors to procure such a reservation, shows they
were satisfied that the surrender would pass them to the crown,
unless an express reservation could be obtained.
In the construction of all ancient instruments, but more especially of public grants, long continued usage should have great
influence.
Next ad to the rights in the sea and its arms.

JAN.UARY TERM, 1842.

387

[Marti et a. v. W9aAeD.]

1. As to wrecks. - This is one of the minor regalia, respecting
property, and is often vested in the subject as a franchise. Lords
of manors bordering on the sea frequently claim it. - Yet this
was surrendered, and has been the subject of repeated regulation
by statutes providing when, and.under what circumstances the
proceeds shall be paid into the state exchequer. Patterson's
Laws, 385.
2. Ferries when established-wharves, ferry-stairs, piers, &c.,
stretch into'the rivers and bays. If over a private river, the
owner of the ferry would have to purchase the land of the owner
of.the river. No such claim to the public rivers has been set up
by the proprietors.
3. Bridges. Toil bridges, and bridges connected with turnpikes,
railroads, &c., when established over a public river, occupying
the soil, would be an encroachment upon the rights of the proprietors, if they owned the bed of such river. Compensation in
sucli cases is always made to the owners of private rivers and
fast land; but none has been made to the proprietors as owners
of the public rivers.
4. The right of the riparian proprieLor to wharf out. into the.
public river, is a local custom in -New Jersey. How can the
growth of such a custom be reconciled with the idea that the soil
and fisheries in tihose public waters were the private property of
the lords proprietors.
5. In all the public waters of the state they have two kinds of
fisheries-common fisheries--and pirivate or shore fisheries, belonging to the riparian owner. The latter is confined to fisheries -for those kinds of fish which were usually taken by hauling
the net upon the shore, and are called shore fisheries. By long
usage, these kinds of fisheries have grown into private rights,
belonging to the riparian owner, and have been recognised by
repeated legislative acts. Bennet v. Boggs, 1 Baldwin's Rep. 70.
Those common of fisheries and riparian severi fisheries are all
incompatible with the claims of the proprietors, who, under such
claims would have had several fisheries in all the rivers, and disposed of them to their grantees.
The Delaware Whs by an early law declared to be a common
fishery. But this grew out of the controversy with Pennsylvania, and was the assertion of a right as against -theni. The

388

SUPREME COURT.
[Martiu.et I. v. Waddell.]

same common rights of fishery have existed in all the other
waters of the state. Leaming and Spicer, 480.
.6. The oyster fisheries are common in all the. rivers and, bays
of the state, and have always been protected as such.
The acts recite the rights of the poor to take 'oysters, and protect them from encroachment bycitizens ofother states; all founded
on the idea of common right. 1 Halsted, 90, 91; 1 Allison's N.
J.Laws, 57, Preamble; I Pat. 203; 1 Nevile, 87.
It is not pretended that the proprietors have ever possessed or
enjoyed any of the regalia since 'the surrender. They have
occasionally made a few grants which have extended over these
public waters, but they have been very few. Their grants have
almost invariably been confined to the bank or margin of the
public rivers. See 4 Griffith's Law Register, 1292. But in the
few grants they have made, it is not pretended that'the grantees
have ever set up several fisheries for oysters, or floating fish; or
claimed and exercised an exclusive right in any other way.
One would suppose, if the proprietors had claimed'the regalia
after the surrender, they 'would at once have asserted and exercised the right of extinguishing the Indian title, a prerogative
right appertaining to private property. But this has never been
claimed or exercised independently of license from the' royal
government. General usage in New Jersey, then, is decidedly
hostile to this extraordinary claim of the proprietors.
A question has arisen whether the King of England can grant
the soil of the .sea and its arms, s6 as to destroy or prejudice
public rights. Not considering this question at all material to
the main argument, I have purposely kept it out.
If he had not such a power, however, it serves to strengthen
the construction of the royal grant that he did not intend thus to
convey the sea and its arms .bythis charter. It has been shown
that all the uses to which these public waters can be 'pplied are
public and common.
It is only when the waters are excluded from the soil by alluvion, wharfing'out, &c., &c.,that it becomes private; and then the
whole character is changed. *Udallv. The Trustees of Brooklyn,
19 Johns. Rep. 175.
To grant the soil, so as to, give an individual the right to take
it after such a change, has been made a nice question; and ithas

JANUARY TERM) 1842.

389

[Mrtin et &Ltp.WaddelLj

been stated that a grant to have this effect -mtst be .pbcial y
formed. Harg. 18 ; 2 Anst. 604, 609. But why need it be so
specially formed; if the king ean at once grant so as to vest in
an.individual the soil, .and divested of all common'use before the
change takes placeT.
Common of fishery, is a rght which may be specially pldaded,
and cannot be traversed. -Richardson v. The Vlayor of Orford, 2 H.
Black. 182; S. C.4 Term Rep. 437; Wardv. Creswoll, Willes'.Rep.
268. A grant of'soil eannotdestroDy the common right of fishery,
Chit. Prerog. 142; 2 Bl. Com. 39. The distinction 'drawn by
Blackstone between free and several fisheries. is not that the latter
requires an ownership of the soil, but~ai exchisive .fishery in a
private river, gfanted by a private person. See Chitty.onFisheries,
243-269.. Harg. p. 11, admits a commonright of.fishery cannot
be destroyed.
The grants and pre-emptive rights spokefi.of in.t~ia books are
claims by prescription, and grants of pfescriptive rights, arising
or presumed to have arisen prior to Magna Charta. See also
5 Mod. 73; Siderfin, 148; 149; 16 Vin. Piscary,,b 1;. Year Book,
8 ed. 4, 18 ;.7 East, 195 ; 1 Inst.'Magna Charta. ch. 16, 23.
The grant of the river Thames opposite London,.is-founded on
an ancient prescriptive grant. Shultie, 56. No case can be shown
of a grant since. Magna Charta and its confirmation, not founded
on an ancient prescriptive'right.s
The royal fisheries in the river Banfie were special'io'altiqS.
the ancient inheritance of the crown resting upon" old charters,
collected from the Pipe Rolls; the evidence of -which as -there
adduced, Would have~beeii supei-fluous, if the king has the right
and power over the navigable waters here contended for.
The only r.emaining question to be considered.is, the effect of
Lae decisions of Mundy v. Arnold, 1 Haisted, 1 ; and 1 Penning.
Rep. 391.
The first of these cases occupied the whole ground. The suit
was brought on a location made under the proprietors with a view
to try the right.' Ini the other case the 'question came up fncidentally.
The object of thi's suit unquestionably was, to review and'overturn the decision of Mundy v.A nold.
There is no pretence for -alleging that: any q4uestion under the
2K2

390

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin et aL . .Waddel3

Constitution of the United States arose in Mundy v. Arnold.
The question was of unwritten local laws, resting on the construction of an ancient charter applicable to real .property, and affected
by the uage of the state.
The jurisdiction of this Court over cases where citizens of another state than the one in which the ,suit arises aie concerned,
rests upon the ground that the federal Courts, in applying the
law, will'be more free from any undue in~uence.
Buf it is state law they are to apply, not to review, alter, or
,remodel state law.
The jurisdietion of this Court is not controlling or reviewing.
It.is not, so far as.respects the settling of state law, equal. It issubordinate. The federal Courts follow, an4 do not -lead. Their
juiisdiction is occasional. Perhaps not one part in tei thousand
of the public waters in question, are under the jurisdiction, of this
Court at all.
The 'membersof this Court cannot be expected to be acquainted
withi all those local usages and opinions which enter into and modify the laws of a state, especially its unwritten law. Hence this
Court -had, decided that the state judiciary is presumed best to
knbw its own law, band is the appropriate organ t6 expound and
settle. it. Elmendorf r..Taylor," 10 Wheat.; Bell v. ,Marrison,
1 Petersp 359, 360. Hence this Court follows and changes with
the state law. Green v. Neal, 6 Peters, 301.
,It is said the decision in Arnold vi Mundy was not carried UP
arid de6ided in the Court of Appeals. -The true point to be ascertained is whether that decision -is state law; whether it has
been so far adopted and acted upon as to form a part of its unwritten law.
There are two brariches of unwritten law in relation to this
subject.
1. Those old and well-established doctrines about which there
can be no.dispute, and which can never be modified or changed
without legislative interference, such as the law of descents.
2. Adjudications upon .caseg eonstantly arising, attended with
new combinations of circumstances. It is in reference to this second branch, that the rule applies. Under the.maxim, stare decisis,
these adjudications form part of the unwritten common law.
But they may occasionally, when 'foumd not to woik well, be

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

391

[14i-tin-et aL t,"Waddeml.

.modified. This flexibility is made to harmonize with the.stability
resulting from the application of the above maxim.- The'power
of reconsidering and new-modelling adjudications.will be expezcised
with great delicacy and caution. Adjudications once deliberately
made, are held as forming part of the settled law; notwithstanding this occasional -interterence with' the, rule. An occasional
deviation does not impair the character of a fixed rule. Wheli
an adjddication-is once d liberately made by a Court competent
to settle the law, the power of disturbing or remodeling it does not
belong to the tribunal of a foreign gQvremment.
If such a point came up in the Supreme, Court of any other
state upon the local law of New Jersey, an6 it might come up
incidentally, such a decision as .inArnold v. Mundy would be
implicitly followed. The Courts at Westminster JIall:would implicitly follow it. This Court, under. the decision of Green v.
Neal, would implicitly follow it.
Is the Supreme Court of Niw Jersey.competent to settle law;
or must it be carried up to the Court of Appeals? The appeals
to that Court are. only occasional. There are no reports of their
decisions. The decisions of'the Supreme Court qre all reported
by law; and they have by force of law and uisage, the authority
of binding precedents in the state when not appealed from.
When cited in other cases, even in the Court of Appeals, they
are respected as. precedents an& as state law; more especially
when they haVe'stood for years, and have become the basis of
business traftslactions and of legislative action, as in the present
case.

It is also objected, that there has been. but one decision upon
this point. One decision fully and thoroughly investigated may
be more effective than half a dozen decisions slightly considered.
This ought not to be made a question of arithmetic. There are
seldom in any case fully discussed more than one decision, because a Court will not, unless in a very special case, hear a second
argument in the same or -in another cause on the same point.
It may, in other cases, be incidentally alluded to, but this can add
little weight to the force of the decision. If that is wanted, we
have it in this case. The doctrine was incidentally passed upon
in 1 Penning. Rep. 391. Tide-waters were there held by the Court,
and admitted by all the counsel, to be public navigable rivers.

$9

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin et at. v. Waddell.]

The' oyster 'fishery there, was only deemed to be public and common on that account. It has noWhere been decided by this
Court, that there must be more than one decision, or a decision of
the Cburt of Appeals in those states where they have such
Courts; in order to introduce a case into the settled law of the
state; such a doctrine, if carried out, would unsettle a vast body
of law, and would be productive of infinite mischief in those states
where.a" branch of the legislative body forms an occasional Court
of Appeal. Remarks made by the Court in the case before them,
must be taken in reference to the circumstances. In a caqe where'
the decisiofi was by the State Court of Appeals, it may be said
to form o part of the settled law: so where there have been several decisions, as sometime 'happens in will -cases, they may be
said to have the same effect; but it does not follow that one'decision may not have the same effect; In 5 Peters, 151, and 6 Peters,
299, this Court followed a single decision of the 'State Courts.
A-contrary'doctrine would lead to unforttinate conflicts betwerL
the state and federa , judiciary. If this*Court should attempt to
overturn Arnold-'-v. Mundy; it could not be.'binding upon the
State Cdurts. There would then be only on& decision here. And
upon the principles already settled in this Court, they would be
bound to rpspect and foow the decision of their own State Court
'in preference:, If this 'Court 'should b6lieve 'that the soil was in
' the plaintiff below, but there was a common right of fishety, for
the reason above stated, the judgment should be in favour of the
dbfendants below.
-Mr. Ogden -for the d6fendants'in error.
Therb are two questions in. this case, First, the extent of the
grant of King Charles the Second: Second, The operation and
effect of the surrender in 1702, to Queen-Anne.
The question 'Whether the country, now the United States, was
acquired by disc6very or conquest, is of no moment in this cate.
'The questiorn What passed to the Duke-of York,-by the letters
jpLteht, properly dividds itself into two portions. 1. What was
the thing granted. 2. Had' the king the power to make the grant
as it -is construed by th'e defendants in error.
-5The grant i of all the lands, soils, rivers,-&c., and of all other
regalities. " Soil" is -the appropriate word to pase land under

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

293

[Martin et al. v. Waddel.]

water. It is not a general term, but an apt and proper one to
pass s6il under a river; and therefore when used, passes by
the king's grant all that is the prerogative right of the king.
It is to be holden by the Duke of York and his heirs, in fee-simple, in free and common soccage. Now, suppose the deed stopped here, would there be any doubt of its construction? It then
grants the powers of government, civil and military.
By the grant to the Duke of York, King Charles the Second
parted with all the premises included within the grant, and 'also
with all his rights of sovereignty or power of government, on
condition, and so long as the laws made by the new government
were not contrary to the laws of England; reserving only a right
of receiving and hearing appeals from provincial judgments and
decrees or sentences.: He parted with all his prerogative rights
in the. territory contained in the grant: because having parted
with the sovereign power, he must necessarily have parted with
all the rights oi sovereignty. He parted with his crown, and
with all the rights attached to it; and he had no prerogative rights
remaining in him, execpt those expressly reserved.
The Duke of York, and the proprietors, of New Jersey under
him, were seised and possessed of all the rights of the Xing of
England, both of property and government.
This presents the point, had the king power to make such a
grant?
It seems to the counsel for the defendants in error, to be placing
this question on too narrow a ground, to put the validity of this
grant, upon the king's prerogative rights. Those rights were,
from their nature, and must be confined to England.
This grant, parting not only with the soil, but with the government of the -country granted by him, transcends all his. prerogative rights under the common law of England. He, as king,
cannot grant a right of sovereignty over any part ,of England.
This right to part with and convey the property and sovereignty
of government of this territory, must be traced to the great principles of national law; applicable to every nation, to every sovereign in whom is the power of disposing of any propeity which
the nation has acquired either by conquest or discovery. The
correctness of thi view of sovereign power, must be judged of,
not by the ccmmon law, but according to the law of nations.
s0

$94

SUPREME COURT.
[Marin et aL v. WaddelL]

It is considered a cession, by a sovereign to one of his subjects,
but'it is intended. to vest in that subject a territory with all the
rights of government; an~d it must be construed as if it were a
cession to another sovereign. By the treaty of 1783, the King
of -Great- Britain ceded all his right- and sovereignty over the
United States. Did not the rivers and the soil under them pass
without apt and"special, words to include all his-regalities?
Tins was a newly acquired territory, then a wilderness; the
settlement -and improvement of it:
were great objects with the
crown. In order to effct .this, it was intended to hold out great
inducements to Englishmen and others to come over and inhabit
it: Self-government was awa'ys a favourite object with the
people of England, who were- strongly imbued with a love of
liberty; aid in furtherance of that -.object, this grant, and the
p6wer alid, property included -in it, were made and granted by
the king. The people were to be subject to their allegiance to
the crown; but not to be subject to all the prerogatives vested in
the king by the common law.
To a certain extent, this.,was a part of one and the same nation. The enemies of England, in time of war, were their enemies; and in-time of peace, they were at peace With every nation
with whom Englahd was at peace. But to a great extent they
were an independent government'; making their dwn laws,holding treaties with the Indians,naturalizing citizens, and exercising
full legislative-authority; -restrained only by the condition contained ii the .patent, with an exclusive power- of taxing 'their
inhabitants, &c.
To assert that- they held all their rights, and exercised 'all their
power subject 'to the common law prerogative of the Xing of
England, .would be contrary to common sense. 'Toone prerogative, from their peculiar --and: anomalous situation, 'they were
suhject,-the power.of the-'king to declare war and to maire peace;
but to nothing'else.
The'exercise -of:the royal prerogative had 'in'many cases bden
considered as leading, to acts of- tyranny in England; and to
avoid being no longer. Within it, was .nodoubt one great :induc&
ment to many to leave that kingdom; aAd'they never could believe that those prerogative' rights, were to follow them in tleir
new homes,

SA"?ARY TERM, I42.W
In.oonneco.on.witl'this point in the argument, itxis: np.0tant
t0 refer"to dates
-The patent of Charles -theSedond to the Dukeof York Was date
0nahe- 2th .of..arch.,664:. ;The duketonveyed lo Birklgy and
Catteret onthe 24th-June, 1-664, .TheeQncession.andagreemept
fade-by-Bbrkley 4ud. CaTteretwith all and every the adeneturers,
and 4l1 such, hs shall settle or lant there, bears date, the lOth
Y'ebriary, 1(364.If this"vas bfore the gpant t0"
te Duke of-York, it isppiobable
the concessions were known and.apprqved of by.the king, before
he made the grant to the duke. Whether, therefore, these grants,.
concessions, andagreements of Berkley ad4&,aiteret were made
after or before the-letters patent, is.of. no consequence..
By the twenty-fifth ,article. of'the cncessions ir4 find the proprietors acting..and erecting a goverdment-of iheik owfl, with the
knowledge, and.consent of the king, wth three distinct .d ppAmerits, legislative- executive, aud.judicidl; and free, ft "is
apprehended, from: all "the.common law prerogatives "gf the. crown of
]ngland, and subject only-to one great prerogutive; that of making war and peace.
-In confirmation of this doctrine, the Court -are referred to-Salkeld, 666, whfre, Lord Holt says, ".The law of England does'not
extend to Virginia; her law-is what the king pleases." In the
opinion of Lord Holt, the power of the kiiig was unlimited; restrained, or governed by no principle of the cocnmon law, He.
ha. a right, theti, to. grant New Jersey without any reference to
the laws,of England, or to his.prerogatives under those-laws.
He could give no stronger evideqqe of his pleasure than by the
words of the grant made by him to the Duke of York.
But if this case is to be determined according to the strictest
and most technical rules of the common law, let us now examine
that law, and see what will be the result upon the i4uestions -in
'this case.
It is conteided by-the counsel for the plaintiffs in eror, that
the prerogativ rights of the king to rivers, in which the tide ebbs
and flows, to the bays and inlets from the sea, to the soil under
the rivers, and to the fisheries, aie held by him in trtst for- the use
of alhis subjects a and cannot be transferred by himto an indi-

396

SUPREME COURT.
[Martidet aL v. WaddelL]

vidual. If these were the trusts upon which the king held these
rights, it is presumed that the state of New Jersey must now
hold them upon the same trusts. By the Revolution, the state
acquired all the rights which belonged to the crown, but none
others. If the king held all the rights upon the trusts mentioned,
the state must hold them upon the same trusts.
But by the legislation of New Jersey, all such trusts are denied. Acts of the legislature, of New Jersey of November 24,
and December 7, 1818. These acts authorize the leasing of
those fiats, or land, or soil under the water to any individual, and
not to the riparian owners of the soil only, but to any one who shall
pay the state a certain annual rent; and have actually leased to
the plaintiffs in error the premises in -dispute for a term of years,
none of whom are stated to be the owners of the adjacent shores.
If the. legislature of New Jersey have the powei to lease for
years, they may do so for life or in fee. So long as they have
the power to convey any interest or estate in the premises to individuals, the nature and continuance of the estate to be conveyed
or granted must depend entirely and exclusively on the legislative discretion.
By what course of reasoning do the counsel for the plaintiffs in
error arrive at the conclusion that the state have now the power
to made a disposition of this property for private purposes, and
that the crown anterior to the Revolution had no such power or
right.
It is not intended to consume the time of the Court by reading
the cases referred to in the argument already addressed to the
Court by the counsel for the defendants in error. The principles
contained in these authoBrities will be stated. All rivers, bays
which are what are called arms of the sea, in which the tide ebbs
and flows, and the soil under them below high-water marK, and
the rights of fisheries in these rivers, primk facie belong to the
king. They may, however, belong to a subject; but he must
show his title to them. He may show, either an actual grant, or
he may show a title by prescription, which' always supposes a
grant.
A grant.from the king of a river, and the soil under it, passes a
ight of fishery to the grantee. It was, for some time, made a

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

du

[Martin et al. v. WaddelL]

question, whether there could be a several right of fishery with,
out the ownership of the soil; all the cases on that subject necossarily admit that the right of soil under the river may be vested
in adt individual. There are but two cases from which a contrary
doctrine can be deduced. They are the cases in 6 Modern, 73,
and 5 ,Rob. Adm. Rep. 159. But this Court, it is copfidently believed, will not suffer these two cases to overrule the mass of
authorities cited for the defendants in error, nor the authority of
Sir Mathew iale, one of the most learned and accurate lawyers
that ever lived.
To proceed to the second point; what rights were surrendered
by the. proprietors to the crown, by the, deed of surrender of
1702 ?
It will be recollected that the original grant from Charles the
Second was not- only of the property, but of the government
of the ,territories granted. . All civil and military power- was
granted.
t,
In 1702, the proprietors surrendered their right of government,
and nothing else; whatever was a right of property was retained
by them. Whatever was necessary for the government, was
surrendered by them.
Certainly the surrender never intended to abandon any of the
property, and to enable the queen to grant it. It has been.shown
thiat the property in the soil was granted to those Who held under
the letters patent of Charles the Second, as property. Itis then,
evidenit that it never was surrendered to the crown. If it never
was granted as property, but was a part of the polwers of government necessarily appertaining to it, then it was not surrendqred.
As has been shown by the cases cited, the soil under a river may
be granted b. the crown to a subject, and the government still
goes on. This fully establishes the position that the retaining
such property in the crown is hot necessary to the existence and
administration of the government.
The proprietors exercised privileges which are 'essential to
every government. They established, forts. A fort was erected
at Amboy. They continued bfter the surrender to pse and exercise' all righfts of 'property in the territory for its protection and
for their advantage. This is not a*case of local law, and the deisions of the Cocurtq of New Jersey are not entitled to authorityVoVT. XVL-2 L

898

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin et al. % WaddelL]

in the Courts of the United States, as tity would be on the construction of the statutbs of New Jersey. This Court will look at
these decisions with respect, but will not yield to them the de~ision of the question before the Court. The Court are now called
upon to give a construction to a patdnt from the King of England,
which related to territory as well within the limits of what is nov
New York, as New Jersey. This is.not a local question.
For the construction the Court are now called upon to give'to
these letters patent, they will look at the interpretation given to
them in Wesf Jersey. The people of that part of the territory
granted by. the letters patent, have always used the right of.
fishery in the river Delaware. This right has been derived from
grants of the proprietors of West Jersey.
Mr. Wright, for the defendants in error.
The following is a concise statement of the facts of thb case.
Ai action of ejectment was institiuted in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of New Jersey, by the defendant in
error, to try the title to land covered- with water, situated in the
bay of. Amb'oy near the mouth of the Raritan river. The defendant in error, being plaintiff below, obtained a judgment in
the Circuit Court, on a special verdict; and this writ of error was
prosecuted by the defendants.
In the Circuit Court, the plaintiffs in the ejectment claimfed title.
under a patent from King Charles the Second of England, to his
brother James, then Duke of York, executed 12th March, 1664, by
which 'the whole of the terrftory now the state of New Jersey,
including the premisesin question, with other large bodies of
land, were granted to the Duke'of York. By conveyahces from
the Duke of York and others, the property was claimed to be
vested in the defendant in drror. The patent describei the land
in the uSual form of such conveyances from the crown of England,
withou any exceptions or reservations, with certain isand upon
the sea coast, cand the lands from the west side of Connecticut
river to the east side of the Delaware bay."
This was the grant of property from the king to the duke, and it
is not questioned that the mesne conveyances from the duke down
to- the plaintiff in the ejecthaent have been equalLybroad and
comprehensive to carry the title to the premises in question. .In a

JANUAI-X TERM, 1842.

399

[Martin et al. v. Waddel]
subsequent part of the patent, full powers of government, civil
and military, in and over the territory, are granted to the duke,
4"Chis heirs, deputies, agents, and assigns," reserving only an appeal to the king in favour of any person "touching any judgment
or sentence to be by them made or given."
On the 15th of April, 1702, the twenty-four proprietors of East
New Jersey."assignees of the-Duke of York," surrendered to Anne,
then Queen of England, the powers of government granted in
the patent from the king, which surrender was made in the very
terms of the grant, in the patent; and that surrender so made,
was accepted by the.queen two days after it was made.
Under this state of facts, not controverted, the questions in this
case are made:
-First, Could the King of England, in conformity with the law
of nations and the law's of England, convey, in the year 1664, to
a subject of his-realm a valid title to lands covered by the water
of bays, rivers, or arms of the sea, where the tide ebbs and flows,
in the province of New Jersey?
The laws of nature and nations establish the following propositions, pertinent to this question:
1. Every nation is the proprietor as well of the rivers and ieas
as of the lands within its territorial limits. Vattel's Law of Nations, 120, sec. 266.
2. The sea itself, to a certain extent, and for certain purposes,
may be appropriated and become exclusive property as well as
the land. Vattel, 127, sect. 287; Rutherford, book 1, ch. 5, p.- 76,
sect. 3.
3. The nation may dispose of the property in its possession, as
it pleases; may lawfully alienate or mortgage- it. Vattel, 117,
sect. 261, 262.
.4. The nation may invest the sovereign with the title to its
property, and thus confer upon him the rights to alienate or
mortgage it. - Vattel, 117, sect. 261, 262.
The laws of England establish the following propositions material to this point: First, the. commoh law of England vests
in the king the title to all public 'property. 1 Black. Com. cli. 8,
298, 299; 2 Black. Com. 15, 261, 262; Hargrave's Law Tracts,
de Jura Maris, ch; 4, 10, 11, 12; 6 Con. Dig., title prerogative,

400

SUPREME COURT,

6O ; b, 63, Tenure, 337; .5 Com: Dig.,.title Navigation, 107;
S Coke's Reports, 5, 109.
2. A subject may acquire the, property of navigable rivers and
'the soil, and of gpecific localities in the sea itself, by grant or
prescription, as he maytnany other pre ogaiiVq rights of the king
of a like character; and the king- may, mike all these grants to a
subject. Hargrave's Law Tracts, de Jure Marls, ch. 4, 11, 13,
ch. 5 17, 1&; Pblmer v. Mulligan,. 3 Caines's Rep. 315, 319; The
People v. Platt, 17 Johns, Rep, 195.
The Massachusetts cases equally recognise the authority of the
law tracts in that state. So, too, are the decisions in other states.
1 Pick. Rep. 180.; 2 Conn. Rep. 481; 2 Binney's Rep. 475.
As it has been said that no grants of navigable rivers, and the
soils and fisheries thereof, haye-been made since Magna Charta,
the following references are made. Darr. Rep. 155; Donegal v.
Hamilton, 3 Ridgeway's Parliamentary Cases, 276-328.
1Other authorities of English elementary authors, and English
adjudged cases, sustain. Lord Hale in the positions that thie subject can'acquire these rights, and that the king has a right to make
'the grants, and has been aceustomedto make themh. 1,Black.
Com. 286 ; 5 Cruise's Dig. 45, sec. 10, tit. 54, King's Grant;
3 Cruise's Dig. 262; Carter v. Murcat, 4 Burr. Rep. 2163; S. C.
2164, 2165, 1 Mod. Rep. 105 ; 5 Com. Dig. 108, tit..Navigation,
6 Com. Dig. 55, tit. Prerogative; 4 Coke's Rep. part 7, p. 19;
Ballbrook v. Gooden, 2BuTr. 1768. All the following authorities
of a date later than the publication of Hargrave's Tracts give to
them the highest authority. The Banker's Case, Skinner's Rep.
601 ; The Mayer of Oxford v. Richardson, 4,Dumford and East,
439; 5 Burr. 285; 5 Modern,556; 3 Barnwell and Ciqsswel,875;
2 Bos. and Pull. 472; 5 Barnwell and Cresswell, 268. American
cases sustain the right of the king to make such grants. 2 Binney's
-Rep. 476; 4 Mass. Rep. 144; 522; 1 Pick. 180; 3 Johns. Rep.
357, 6 John. 131; 17 Johns. 195; 20 Johns. 90; ,1 Conn.. Rep.
284; 7 Conn. Rep. 486; 2 Conn.ARep. 481; 1 Har.'and M'Hen..
Rep. 564; 8 Wheat. 577-597.
Mr.,Wright proceeded to examine the cases cited for the plaintiffs in error in suppor.t of the principles contended for by them.
He argued that none of those cases impugned the doctrine he had
claimed. Some of the cases Were taken from the civil, and not

JANUARY TERM, 1812.

401

[Marti et al. v. WaddelL]

from the commqn law, to which only the parties must look for the
principles to govern the controversy. The difference between
the civil and common law rights, and between the common law
and the civil law, are laid down by Bracton. Banwell and
Cresswell, 290, 292, 293, 309, 311.
Blackstone (2 Black. Com. 39) supposes that Magna Charta,
ch. 16, had restrained the king from granting free fishery; by
which he evidently intends "exclusi-te fishery, in navigable waters, when the soil is in the king ;" but he says it is different as
to several fishery, because that must either be in, or be derived
from, the owner of the soil.
The Kings of England, then, had the right, by the laws of nations and the laws of England, at least until the statute of 1 Anne,
in the year 1701, to grant in fee, to a subject, the crown lands
and various royal franchises, portions of the property and inheritarice of the crown, within the realm; and.the subject could take,
hold, possess, and enjoy, in full propriety, according to the grant,
the lands and franchises, so conveyed to him by the sovereign.
It cannot surely be necessary to resort to argument or authority
to prove that the power.of the king to make grants.to his subjects,
either, of lands or franchises, in the waste and wilderness province of New Jersey, in 1664 or 1674, was at least as extensive
as the power he then Dossessed to make similar grants within the
realm of England.
Still it has been objected, that the title of the defendant in efror
is not sustained by these authorities, and the principles they establish; because it is said the power 6f the king to grant is confined
to the alienation of his private property, "his ordinary- revenue,"
"lands vested in him upon feudal principles," and does not extend
to the public- propdrty, to property held "by virtue of his prerogative," in which way only it is alleged he holds "the allodium of
the soil of navigable rivers and the sea." The authorities already
cited answer this objection.
All the cases establish the power of the king to make the grant,
or the right of the subject 'to hold by prescriptiofi, which'presupposes a grant from the crown as the .only lawful commencement of the title. Cited, 3 Cruise's Dig. 244, tit. Franchise,
sec. 1; 5 Cruise, 46, tit. King's Grant, sec. 7; 2 Black Com. 265;
4 Burr. Rep. 2165.
51
2L2

402

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin et a]. v. Waddell.]

This objection, however, has no foundation in 'the .Eng ish
common law, but is entirely" subversive of. one of its oldest and
best settled principles. The king holdg nothing as f' private property," but every thing in jure corona. Even that which was
his private property before he was king, the moment the crown
descends upon him, is held jure coronfe, and riot as his private
property. 6 Comyn's Dig. 60, tit. Prerogative, (D. 64); Skinner's
Rep. 603.
A second objection is, that by chapters 16 and 23 ot the statute
of-Magna Charta, adopted by the king and parliament of England in the ninth year of the reign of Henry the Third, A. D.
1224-5, the power of the king to grant the soil of navigable
Hivers, ports, havens, and arms of the sea, was restrained, and the
exercise of it as to new grants entirely prohibited* so that any
such grants, made subsequent to that Btatute, are contrary to its
provisions, and therefore void.
This objection admits of several very conclusive answers; but
the one which'seems to present itself as first in order, as if sound
it must be in importance, is
1. That neither of these chapters of Magna Charta relate, ai
ill, to the title of the soil upon which they act, or contain any
prohibitibn whatever against grants of soil anywhere, either by
tie sovereign, or a subject. They merely in the broadest- construction which any one has sought to give to them, prescribe
and restrain the use of the soil of the banks and beds of rivers, as
it relates to ohstructions to navigation and fishing; and that
equally whether the propriety of that soil be in a subject, or in
the king.
This nosition will not be obviated, if the Court shall be of the
opinion that, by virtue of these statutes, a common right of fishery in the waters which cover the premises in question was
secured to all the subjects of the king, and has passed to the people of the state of New Jersey; because the plaintiffs in error do
not defend under any such claim of common right, but under atitle in the state of New Jersey, adverse to the: title of the defendant inerror, and by virtue of which they claim a several fishery,
the right to put the waters and banks in defence, to put down
wears thereon, not obstructing the navigation, and to exclude, for

JANUARY' TERM, 1842.

403

(Martin et al. v. Waadell.]

a term of years, all the other hihabitants of New Jeisey fiom taking
fish there.
2. Another answer to this objection is, that Magna Charta is a
mere statute, and its application was local and confined to the
iealm of England, for which the Parliament which passed it war
the local legislature, unless subsequently expressly extended to
the .colonies by competent authority.
1. This is shown upon the face of the statute itself. The preamble contains this langtiage. Cited Coke's Institutes, part 1, vol.
1, p. 1,-English ed. 1817.
In order further to show the proper construction of the sixteenth
chapter of Magna Charta, Mr. Wright also cited 2 Black. Com.
39; Cruise's Digest, 261, title Franchise; Duke of Somersett v.
Fogwell, 2 Barn. & Cress. 875; 1 Statutes of Great Britain and
Ireland, 579, 718, vol. 2, 213, g42, 644, 688 ; 7 Coke's Rep. part
13, p.'35, 36.
It is believed that both the objections above, enumerated are
effectually disposed of by the considerations and authorities presented, and that the proposition befoe arrived at is fully established, viz.: "That the King of England had the right, by the
laws of nations, and the laws of England, at least until the statute
of I A-nne, in the year 1701, to grant in fee, to a subject, the crown
lands., and various royal franchises, portions of the property and
inheritance of the crown, within the realm; and the subject could
take, hold, possess, and enjoy in full propriety, according, to the
grant, the J.nds and franchises, so conveyed to him by the sovereign."
This. Court has adopted the'se principles, as to the power of the
king over his distant and conquered dominions; and has applied
them to the American colonies, especially-so far as they relate to
grants of the soil of this country, in a great variety of decisions.
One of the leading cases, if not the most so, is that of: Johnson v.
M'Intosh, in which the opinion of the Court was pronounced by
the late Chief Justice Marshall. Johnson v. M'Intdsh, 8 Wheat.
Rep. 543, 573, 574, 595, 597.
Whatever then may have been, or may be the power of the
King of England to grant lands within the realm, it is believed the
main question with which this argument commenced may now
be safely. answered. That the King of England, in conformity

SUPREME COURT.
-Martn
et a!. o. Waddell.]

with, the laws of nations and the laws of England, could convey,
in the year 1664, to a. subject of his realm, a valid title to lands
covered by the water of bays, rivers, and arms of the sea, where
the tide ebbs and flows, in the then province of New Jersey; and
that the Courts of the United States cannot, according to the wellestablished principles of the laws of nations, of the laws of England, and of the laws of the United States, as applicable to grants
of land within the United States, pronounce such a conveyance
void, for the want of constitutional and legal power in the king
'to make the grant.
Second, The next question is, do the letters patent from the
king to the Duke of York, .found in the .special verdict, in fact
convey the premises claimed by the defendant. in. error; and to
recover which this action is brought.
This inquiry must be answered principally from the letters
patent themselves; and in them are found the following grants,
Mr. Wright read the charter from King Charles the Second to
the Duke of York, as set forth in the special verdict: 'and cited on
the construction of the 6harter, 2 Black, Com. 347, 348, 346; 7 Connecticut Rep. f86; Palmer v. Hicks, 6 Johns. Rep. 133; 7 Connecticut Rep. 199, 200.
These letters patent,, then, do con-Vey to the Duke of York the
premises in question in this suit, so fa&r as the propriety thereof
was vested in the king at the time of the grant. - Under these
letters patent, the' Duke of York took and held the territory described and conveyed unto him in the same year, when he
assigned and transferred the samte to Lord Berkley and Cartaret.
They thus became the owners of. the property and government,
and exercised' all their rights in the same. Mr. Wright then
referred to the grants to the purchasers from Lorl Berkley and
Cartatet, as stated by the jury, and to the proceedings of the
twenty-four proprietors -of East Jersey, after, they became the
owners of the territory and government. He cited Learning and
Spicer, 153, 77, 138, 227,-362.
Third, Did this surrender to the Queen of England include, and
carry with it,. a surrender by the proprietors whQ made it, of the
propriety of the soil covered by the waters of the navigable
rivers, bays, ports, havens, and arms of the sea, within' the teiri-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

405

[Maran et al. v. Wade.]

tory granted to them under the letters. patent from King Charles
the Second?
1. Does the deed of surrender, upon its face, reconvey the title
to, and property in that part of the territory of New Jersey in
which the premises are situated? By a reference to the charter,
it will be sen that the powers of government-were granted by a
different instrument' from that of the grants of the soil and the
appurtenances to it. The two classes of grants are in nowise connected. Learning and Spicer, 609 to 615.
No constructjon of the language employed in these'patents can
be adopted, which by fair legal interpretation can be made to
amount to a conveyance of a single item of the property granted
in the first letters patent.
It is denied that the grantors in the deed of surrender intended
to surrender and reconvey to the crown, any of the rights of
soil or of property conveyed to them by the letters patent of
King Charles the Second. This is sh6wn by the terms of. the
surrender. Leamiug and Spicer, 613, 588, 589, 590, 593, 594,
596, 619.
The residue of the argument of Mr. Wright was, upon questions arising on the charter and surrender, on which no opinion
was given by the Court; and this part of the,-argument is, therefore, omitted. The opinion of the Court was upon the power of
the king to grant the soil as claimed under the charter, by the
defendant in error, holding under the twenty-four proprietors of
East Jersey, as the grantees under the Duke of York.
The last question for consideration is on the effect of the decision of the Supreme Court of New Jersey, in the case of Arnold
v: Mundy, reported in 1 Halsted's Reports, 1. Does that decision bind this Court in the present case?
The principal cases in which this question has been raised and
considered'dr decided'-in this Court, are the following- M'Kean
v. Delancy, 5 Cranch, 82 ; Polk v. Wendal, -9 Cranch, 87; Thatcher v. Powell, 6 Wheat. 119; Blight v. Rochester, 7 Wheat. 535;
Daly v. James, 8 Wheat. 495; Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat.
152; 11 Wh'eat. 361; 12 Wheat. 153; 1 Peters, 571.
The principles deducible from these decisions, and which are
to govern the application of the rule, would seem to be the following:

406

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin et al. v. Wsd&da.]

1. That the point presented to this Court, and upon which its
decision is ipvokea; shall be. identical in .substance and in -law
with the point presented to, and decided by the. State Courts,
whose decisions are relied upon as being the guide to this Court.
.2.. The point must arise upon-the construction of a legislative
act of the state, whose Courts have given the construction relied
upon; or as to what is the local law of that state, relating to the
title to real property in the given case.
3. The decision of the State Court upon the point presented,
must have remained. so long, and have been so uniform as to
authorize the presumption of acquiescence on the part of the people and authorities of the state, and to have made the decisions of
these Courts upon that point'a settled and established rule of law,
as to titles to lands within the state.
Mr. Wright then went'into a particular examination of the case
of Arnold v.Mundy, and contended that the decision did not
come, -in any manner, within the principles he had stated, and
which are sustained by the. cases referred to. Inthis examin.
tion he cited Hargrave's Law Tracts, de Jure Maris, ch. 1, p. 5;
1.Mo& 105,
Upon this point, after the examination of the case, he said:
For each and all of these reasons, the. decision, of the Supreme
Court of New. Jersey in th& case of Arnold v. -Mundy, cannot
be considered.as establishing a rule of law as to real property in
that state biiding upon this Court in the decision of this cause.
Wilkinson v. Leland et al., 2 Peters, 656; Hind and wife v. Vattier, 5 Peters, 401. After the'analysis of the report of that case,
which ,has: been -before made, it is believed that this Court will
follow the nile .laiddown in these two cases, and say that the
Circuit Court of New Jersey, in the case in question, was bound
to -decide, as the State Qourts, ought to have decided the same
great questions; when presented. to them for .dpcision. In that
ease, the rules of the English common law, and not those of the
civil law,:wili be the guide to a decision here.
-

Mr. Chief-Justice TAzmy delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case 'is brQught here by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States, for the district of New Jersey. It
was fully argued at the last term. But it was not then decided,

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

407

[Kirtla at id.v. WadlL]

because the important principles involvea -in.it, made -it proper
that the case should be heard and determined bv a:full Court;
and as some of the.justicesweie not present at the formei hearrng, a re-argument was ordered; In. pursuande of this oider, it
has been again elaborately discussed by*counser. and having
beefcarefully considered by-the Court, I am instructed to deliver
their Qphiion.
The questibn' before us arise upon an actoi of ejectment, instittited by the defendant in error, who was the plaintiff in the
Court below, to recover one hundred acres of land, covered with
water, situated in the tpwnship of Perth Amboy, in the state bf
New Jersey. At the trial in the Circuit Court, the jury found a
special verdict, setting forth, among other things; that the -land
claimeu lies beneath the navigable wateis of the Raritan river
and bay, where tlhe tide ebbs. and flows. Ahd it appears'that the
principal matter in dispute, is the iight to'the Oyster fishery in the
public rivers and bays of East New Jerisy.
Th e plaintiff makes title under the charters granted by Charles
the Second to his brother the Dake,of York, in 1664 and 1674,
for' the purpose of enabling hip to plant a colony on this continent. , The lasi-ientioned grant is precisely finilar to the otmer
in every respect, and was made fTr the purpose of removing,
doubts which had then arisen as to..the validity of the-first.
The boundaries in.the two charters are the same, andthey.
embrace the territory Which now forms the state of New Jersey.
The part of this territory known'as East New Jersey, afterwazds,
bfsundry deeds and conveyances which it is not- necessay-to
enumerate, was transferred to twenty-four persons, who -were
called the proprietors of East New Jersey; wh6 by the terns.of
the grants were invested, within the portion 6f the territory conveyed to them, with all the rights, of property and governmerit
which had beef briginally conferred on the Duke of York by-the
-letters patent of the king. Some serious diffieulties, however,
took place in a short time between these proplietors and- the
British authorities; and after some negotiatibns upon the subject,.
they, in 170, surrendered to the crown'all.the powers of.govern.
ment, retaining their rights of private .property.
The defendant in error claims the land, covered with water,
inentioned in the declaihtion, by vhue of a uryay xnade in 1834,

408

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin et al. v.Waae11.]

under the authority'of the proprietor , and duly recorded in the
proper office. And, if they were authorized to make this grant,
he is entitled to the premises as owner of the soil, and has an
exclusive right to the fishery in question. The plaintiff in error
also claims an exclusive right to take oysters in the same place;
tnd derives his title under a law of the state of New Jersey,
passed in 1824, and a supplement thereto, passed in the. same
year.
The point in dispute between the parties, therefore, depends
upon the construction and legal effect of the letters patent to the
Duke of York, and of the deed of surrender subsequently made
by the proprietors.
The letters patent to the duke included a very large territory,
extending along the Atlantic coast from the river St. Croix to the'
Delaware bay, and containing within it many navigable rivers,
bays, and arms ot the sea; and after granting the tract of country and islands therein described, "together with all the lands,
islands, soils, rivers, harbours, mines, minerals, quarries, woods,
marshes, waters, lakes, fishings, hawkings, huntings, and fowlings,
and all 6ther royalties, profits, commodities, and' hereditaments
to the szid several islands, lands, and premises belonging and appertaining with their and every of their appurtenances, and all
the estati, right, title, interest, benefit, and advantage, claim, and
demand of the king, in the said land and premises ;" the letters
patent proceed to confer' upon. him, his heirs, deputies, agents,
commissioners, and assigns, the powers of government with a
proviso that the statutes, ordinances, and proceedings, established
by his authority should "not be contrary to, but as nearly as might
be, agreeable to the laws, statutes, and government of the realm
of England; saving also an app]eal to the king, in all cases, from
any judgment or sentence which might be given in the colony,
and authorizing the duke, his heirs and assigns, to lead and transport out of any of the realms of the king to the country granted,
all such and so many of his subjects or strangers not prohibited,
or under restraint, who would become the ' loving subjects' of
the king, and live under his allegiance, and who should willingly
accompany the duke, his heirs and assigns."
The right of the king to make this grant, with all of its prerogatives and powers of government, canhot at this day be ques-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

409

[Martin et aL v. Waddell.]

tioned. But in order to enable us to determine the nature and
extent of the interest which it conveyed to the duke, it is proper
to inquire into the character of the right claimed by the British
crown in the country discovered by its subjects, on this continent;
and the principles upon which it was parcelled out and granted.
The English possessions in America were not claimed by right
of conquest but by right of discovery. For according to the
principles of international law, as then understood by the civilized
powers of Europe, the Indian tribes in the new world were regarded as mere temporary occupants of the soil, and the absolute
rights of property and dominion were held to belong to the European nation by which any particular portion of the country
was first discovered. Whatever forbearance may have been
sometimes practised towards the unfortunate aborigines, either
from humanity or policy, yet the territory they occupied was
disposed of by the governments of Europe at their pleasure, as
if it had been found without inhabitants. The grant to the Duke
of York, therefore, was not of lands won by the sword; nor
were the government or laws he was authorized to establish intended for a conquered people.
The country mentioned in the letters patent, was held by the
king in his public and regal character as the representative of the
nation, and in trust for-them. The discoveries made by persons
acting under the authority of the government were for the benefit

of the nation; and the crown. according to the principles of the
British constitution, was the proper organ to dispose of the public
domains; and upon these principles rest the various charters-and,

grants of territory made on this continent. The doctrine upon
this subject is clearly stated in the case of Johnson v. M Intosh,
8 Wheat. 595. In that case the Court, after stating it to be a
principle of universal law that an uninhabited country, if dis-

covered by a number of individuals who owe no allegiance to
any government, becomes the propefty of the discoverers, proceed to say that, 11If the discovery be made and possession taken
under the authority of an existing government which is acknow-

ledged by the emigrants, it is supposed to be equally well settled
that the discovery is made for the benefit of the whole nation;

and the vacant soil is to be disposed of by that organ of the government which has the constitutional power to dispose of the
VOL. XVI.-2 M

410

SUPREME COURT.
LMatfin et aLv. Waddel.

national dominions; by that organ, in which all territory is vested
by law. According to ,the theory of the British constitution all
vacant lands are vested in the crown as representing the nation,
and the exclusive power to grant them is admitted to reside in
the crown, as a branch of the royal prerogative. It has :been
already shown that this principle was as fully rebognised in America as in the island of-Great Britain."
This being the principle upon which .the charter in.question
was founded, by what rules ought. it to be construed?
We do not propose to meddle with the point which was .very
much discussed at'the bar, as. to the power of the king since
Magna Charta to grant to a. subject a pbrtion of the soil covered
by the navigable waters of the kingdom, so as to give irn an
immedjate and exclusive right of fishery either for shell fish or
floating fish within the Jinmits of his grant. The question is not
free from' doubt, and the. authorities referred to in the. English
books cannot perhaps be altogethel reconciled. But from the
opinions expressed by the justices of the Court of King's' Bench,
in the case of Blundall q.,Caiterall 5 Barn. and Ald, 287, 294,
304, 309; and in the case of The Duke of Somersett v. Fogwell,
5 Barn. and- Cress. 883, 884, the question must be regarded as
settled in England against the right of the king since Magn4
Charta to make such a grant. The point' does not, however,
arise in this case unless it shall' first be, decided that in the grant
to the Duke of York the king intended to sever the bottoms of the
navigable waters from the prerogative powers of government
conferred by the same charter; and to convert them into mere
franchises in the hands of a subject, to be held and used as his
private property. And we the more willingly forbear to express
an opinion, on this subjeot, because it has ceased to be a matter
o,.muph interest in the United States. For when the Revolntion
took place, the people of each state became themselves sovereign;
and in that character hold the absolute right to all their navigable
vters and the soils under them for their-own conmon use, subject only to the, rights since surrendered by the Constitutioli to
the general government. A grant made by their authority must
therefore manifestlybe tried and determined by different principles from. those. which apply to "grapt.s of-the Bxitish crown,

JANUARY TERM,.1842.
Wudt

441

et aL v. WaddeL]

whef ,the title is held by atsingle indivioiual in trust for the hole
nation.
Neither is-it necessary to examine the many cases whieh.have
been cited inthe argument on both sides, to show the degree of
strictness with which grants of the king aie to be construed.
The decisions and authorities referred to: apply more properly to
a grant of some prerogative right to an.individual to be held by
him as a franchise, and which, is intended io become private
property in his hands. The dominion and property in navigble
waters, and in the lands under them, being held by the-king as a
public trust, the grant to an individual of an exclusive fishery'in
any.portion of it, is so much taken from the commgn fund-in.
trusted to his care for the common benefit. In such dases, whatever does not pass by the grant, still remains in'the crowni for the
benefit and advantage of the whole community. Gants of that
description are therefore construed strictly-and it Wiill not be'
presumed that he intended to part from any portion.of the public
domain, unless clear .and especial words are ue4l to. denote it.
But in the-case before us, the rivers, bays,, and arms of'the sea,
and all prerogative rights within the limits of the charter,.undoubtedly passed to the Duke of York, and were intended to
phss, except those saved in the letters patent. The ordt sed
evidently show this intention; and there is no room, therefore, for
the application of the rule above mentioned.
The questions upon this charter are.very different ones. They
are: Whether the dominion and propriety in the navigable waters,
and in the soils under them, passed as a part of the prerogative
rights annexed to the political powers conferred on the duke?
Whether in his hands they were intended to be a trust for 'the
common use of the new community about to be established-;
or private property to- be parcelled out and, old to individuals,
for his own benefit And in deciding' a question like this, we
must not look merely to the strict technical meaning of the words
of the letters patent. -The laws and institutions of Englarnd,'the
history of the times, the object of the charter, the contemporaneous
construcion given to it, and the usages under it, for-the century
and more which has since elapsed, are all entitledlo tonsxdration
and weight. It is not a deed conveying private property to be
interpreted by the rules applicable to cases of that description.

412

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin et al. v. Waddell.]

It was an instrument upon which was to be founded the institutions of a great political community; and in that light it should
be regarded and construed.
Taking this rule for our guide, we can entertain no doubt as to
the true construction of these letters patent. The object in view
appears upon the face of them. rhey were made for the purpose
of enabling the Duke of York to establish a colony upon the
newly discovered continent, to be governed, as nearly as circumstances would permit, according to the laws and usages of England; and in which the duke, his heirs and assigns, were to stand
in ihe pla~e of the king, and adm inister the government according
to the principles of the British constitution. And the people who
were to plant this colony, and to form the political body over
which he was to rule, were subjects of Great Britain, accustomed
to be governed according to its usages and laws.
It is said by Hale in his Treatise de Jure Maris, Harg. Law
Tracts, 11, when speaking of the navigable waters, and the sea on
the coasts within the jurisdiction of the British crown, "that although the king is the owner of this great coast, and, as a consequent of his propriety, hath the primary right of fishing in the
sea and creeks, and arms thereof, yet the common people of
England have regularly a liberty of fishing in the sea, or creeks,
or arms thereof, as a public common of piscary, and may not, without injury to their right, be restrained of it, unless in such places,
creeks, or navigable rivers, where either the king or some particular subject hath gained a propriety exclusive, of that common
liberty."
The principle here stated by Hale, as to, "the public common
of piscary" belonging to the common people of England, is not
questioned by. any English writer upon that subject. The point
upon which different opinions have been expressed, is whether
since Magna Charta, "either the king or any particular subject
can gain a propriety exclusive of the common liberty." For,
undoubtedly rights of fishery, exclusive of the common liberty,
are at this day held and enjoyed by private individuals under
ancient grants.. But the existence of a doubt as to the right of
the king to make such a grant after Magna Charta, would of
'itself show how fixed has been the policy of that government on
this subject for the last six hundred years; and how carefully it

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

413

(Martin et al. v. Waddel
has preserved this common right for the benefit of the public.
And there is nothing in the charter -before us 'indicating that a
different and opposite line of policy was designed to be adopted
in that colony. . On the contrary, after enumerating in the clause
herein before quoted, some of the prerogative rights annexed to
the crown, but not all of them, general words are used, conveying "all the estate, right, title, interest, benefit, advantage, claim,.
and demand" of the king in the lands and premises before granted. The estate and rights of the king passed to the duke in the
same condition in which they had been held by the crown and
upon the same trusts. Whatever was held by the king as a prerogative right' passed to the duke in the same character. And
if the word "soils" be an appropriate word to pass lands covered
with navigable water, as contended for ofn the part -f tha defendant in error, it is associated in the letters patent with "other
royalties," and conveyed as such. No words are used for the
purpose of separating them from the jura regalia, and converting
them into private property, to be held and enjoyed by the duke,
apart from and independent of the political character.with which
he was clothed by the same instrument. Upon a diresent construction, it would have been impossible for him to have complied with the conditions of the grant. For it was expressly
enjoined upon him, as a duty in the government he was about to
establish, to make it as near as might be'agreeable in their new
circumstances, to the laws and statutes of England; and how
could this be done if in the charter' itself, this high prerogative
trust was severed from the regal authority? If the shores, and
rivers, and bays, and arms of the sea,.and the land under them,
instead of being held as a public trust for the benefit of the whole
community, to be freely used by all for navigation and fishery, as
well for shell-fish as floating fish, had been converted by the
charter itself into private propetrty, to be parcelled out and sold
by the duke for his dwn individual emolument? There is nothing we think in the terms of the letters patent, or in the purposes
for which it was granted, that would justify this construction.
And in the judgment of the Court, the land under the navigable
waters passed to the grantee as one of the royalties incident, to
the powers of government; and were to be held by him in the
same manner,, and for the same .purposes that the navigablo

-414

SUPREME COURT.
(Martn et I v. Wad&&]

wAters of England, and the soils under them, are- held by the
This opinion: is confirmed by referring

similar grants for
other tract&of country upon this continent, made about the same
Various other charters for large territories on the
period. of time. V
AStlantic coast, wyre granted by, different monarchs of. the Stuart
dynasty to different persons, for the purposes of settlement and
colonization, in khich the powers of goverrment were united
with the grant of territory. Some of., these charters very nearly
resembled in every respect the one now in controversy; end none
of them, it is believed, differed materially from it in the terms in
whichf the bays, rivers, and arms of the sea, and the soils under
them, were conveyed to the-grantees. Yet, in no one of these
elonies.has the soil under its navigable waters, and the rights of
fishery for shell-fish or floating fish, bee. severed: by the letters
patentihrom the powers of government. In all of them, from the
time of the settlement to the -present day, the previous habits
and usagesof the colonists have been respected, and they-have
been accustomed to enjoy in common, the benefits and advantagr 3
of the navigable watets for the same purposes, and to the same
extent, that they have been used and enjoyed for centuries in
England. Indeed,-it cWd- not well have been otherwise; for the
men who first formed the English settlen~ents, could not have been
expected. to encounter -Ae many hardships that unavoidably attended their'emigration to the new world, and to people the banks
bf itsbayAahdrivers if the land under the water at their very
doors was liable to immediate appropriation by another as private
propert'y; and 'the settler -pon the fast "land thereby excluded
from its enjoyment, and unahle to take a shell-fish from its bottom,
or fasten there a stake, pr even bathe in its waters without beconing a trespasser uioot the rights of another. The .usage in
New. Jersey has, in this respect, from. its original settlement conformed to the practice of the other chartered colonies. And it would
require very plain lanht ge in these letters patent to persuade us
,that'thei public and cominon right of fishery in navigable waters,
which has been sq long and so careftly guard d in England, and
whieh was peserved in every other colony founded on the Atlantic
borders, wnasintendOd, in this one instance, to be taken away. But
We see'noth, in'the charter to require this conclusion.
to

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

415

[artin et ad. v. Waddell.]

The same principles upon which the Court have decided upon
the construction of the letters'liatent to the Duke of York, appiy
with equal force to the-surrender afterwards made by the twentyfour proprietors. It appears by the special verdict, that all the
interest ot the duke in East New Jersey, including. the royalties
andl Dowers of -government, were conveved, to.the~e proprietors,
as fully and amply. and in the same condition as they had. been
granted to him ; and they had the same dominion and propriety
in the bays, and .rivefs, and arms of the sea, and the soil un~der
them, and in the rights of fishery, that had belonged to him under
the original carter. In their hands, therefore, as well as in those
of the duke,.this aomnion and propriety was an incident-to the
regal authority, and was held by them as a prerogative: right,
associated with the powers of government.. ,And being thus
entitled, they, in 1702, surrendere.d and yielded up to Anne,
Queen of England, and, to heX heirs and successors,, "all the
powers an authorities in the said letters.patent granted; to correct, punish, par.don, govern and rule all or any of-her majesty's
subjects pr others, who then were inhabitahts,.or thereaftermight
adventure into or inhabit within the said province of East New
Jorsev; and a4o to nominate, make. constitute, ordain, anid confirm any laws, orders, ordinances, directions, and istrunxenrs for
those purposes, or any of them ;- and. to nominate, qonstitute, or
appoint, revoke, discharge, change, or alter any governor or
governors, officers or ministers, which -were or should b~e appointet within the said province'; and to ' .ke, ordain, and
establish any orders, laws, Airections, instruments, forms, or cereronies of government and magistrcy; for:. or concerning the
same, or on the sea; in going to or coming from the same; or to
put in execution, or abrogate, revoke, or change such' as -werb
already made, for or concerning such government,or any of them;
and also all the powers and authorities by the s~id letters patent
to.ise and exercise martial law.in the said jirovince'of East.New
Jersey;. and to' admit any person or- persons, to trade or traffic
there; and of ehcointeribg repelling, and resisting by force of
arms, any person or persons attempting to inhabit there without
,the. license 'of them, the- said proprietors, their heirs and assignsand all other. the powers, 4uthorities, andpririleges-of and, 66ncerning-the government 6fthe province last foreiaid, or the arna-

416

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin et aL v. Waddel]

bitants thereof, which were granted or mentioned to be granted
by the said several abovericited letters patent, or either of
them;" which said surrender was afterwards accepted by the
queen.
We give the words of the surrender as found by the special
verdict, and they are broad enough to cover all the jura regalia
which belonged to the proprietors. They yield up "all the powers, authorities, and privileges of and concerning the government
of the province ;" and the right in dispute was one of these authorities and privileges. No words are uted for the purpose of
withholding from the crown any of its ordinary and well-known
prerogatives. The surrender, according to its evident object and
meaning, restored them in the same plight and condition in which
they originally came to the hands of the Duke of York. Whatever he held as a royal or prerogative right, was restored, with
the political power to which it was incident. And if the great
right of dominion and ownership in the rivers, bays, and arms of
the sea, and the soils under them, were to have been severed
from the sovereignty, and withheld from the crown; if the rig't
of common fishery for the common people, stated br Hale in the
passage before quoted, was intended to be withdrawn, the design
to make this important change in this particular territory would
have been clearly indicated by appropriate terms; and would not
have been left for inference from ambiguous language.
The negotiations previous to the surrender have been referred
to, in order to influence the construction of the deed. But whatever propositions may have been made, or opinions expressed
before the execution of that instrument, the deed itself must be
regarded as the final agreement between the parties; and that
deed, by its plain words, re-established the authority of the
crown, with all of its customary powers and privileges. And
when the people of New Jersey took possession of the reins of
government, and took into their own hands the powers of sovereignty, the prerogatives and regalities which before belonged
either to the crown or the parliament, became immediately and
rightfully vested in the state.
This construction of the suirender is evidently the same with
that which it received from all the parties interested at the time
it was executed. For it appears by the history of New Jersey,

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

417

v. WaddeU.]
[Martin et al.
as gathered from the acts, documents, and proceedings of. the
public authorities, that the crown and the provincial .government
established by its authority always afterwards in this territory,
exercised the same prerogative powers that the king was accustomed to exercise in his English dominions. And, as concerns
the particular dominion and propriety now in question, the colonitIl _g~vernment from tim to time authorized the construction
of bridges with abutments on the .soil 'covered by navigable
waters; established postw; authorized the erection of wharves;
and, as early as 1719, passed a law for the preservation of the
oyster fishery in its waters. The public usages, also, in relation
to the fisheries continued to be the same. And from 1702, when
the surrender was made, until a very recent "date, the people
of New Jersey have exercised and enjoyed the rights of fishery,
for shell-fish and floating fish, as a common and undoubted right,
without opposition or remonstrance from the proprietors. The
few unimpoitant grants made by them at different times running
into the navigable waters, which were produced in the argument,
do not appear to have been recognised as valid by the provincial
or state authorities, nor to have been sanctioned by the Courts.
And the right now claimed was not seriously asserted on their
part, before the case of Arnold v. Mundy, reported 'in1 Halsted, 1 ; and which suit was not instituted until the year 1818:
and, upon that occasion, the Supreme Court.of the state held, that
the claim made by the proprietors was without foundation.
-The effect of this decision by the State Court, has been a good
deal discussed at the bar. It is insisted by the plaintiffs in error
that, as the matter in dispute is local in its character, and the con-troversy concerns only fixed property, within the limits of New
Jersey, the decision of her tribunals ought to settle the construction of the charter; and that the Courts of the United
States are bound to follow it. It may, however, be doubted,
whether this case' falls within the rule, in relation to the judgments of State Courts when expounding their own constitution'
and laws.
The question here depends, not upon the meaning of instruments framed by the people of New Jersey, or by their authority,
but upon charters granted by the British crown; under which
certain rights are claimed by the state, on the one hand. and by

418

SUPREME COU1R
[Martia et aL.v. Wa.de L]

private individuals, on, the other. And if this Court had been of
opinion that u on the face of these letters patent, ,the ques'tion
-was clearly against the state, and that the proprietors had been
deprive,' of,their just rights, by the 'erroneous judgment of the
State Court; it Would, perhaps,.be difficult to-maintain that tis
decision of itself bound the conscience of this Court. Itis, howr
ever, unquestionably entitled to great weight. It confirms the
doostrubtion uniformly placed, on the~e charters and instrumentp,
by the otherpublic authorities; and in which the proprietors had
'so long acquiesced. Public acts anid laws, both of the colonial
and state governments,, have been founded'u!pon'-this interpretation; and extensive. and valuable imprQ~e~ments made under it.
1n the case 'referred to, the sanction of the -judicial authority of
the state is gfven toit.'. And if the words of the letters patent had
been far more doubtful thaan they are. this decision, made upoin
such a question, with, great delib'ertion anil r.seardh, ought, in
our judgment, tp be regarded as conclusive.
Independently, however, of this'dec~iion of the Supreme Court
of New Jersey, we .ae of opinon- that the proprietors are not
entitled to ther rights in question; and the jridgment of the Circuit
Court must, therefore, be reversed.
Mir. Justice Thompson, and Mr. Justike Baldwin, dissented..
Mr. Justice TaoMpsox.
'The premises inquestion in this case are a mud-flat covered by
the waters of the bay of Amboy, in the state of New Jersey.
The'iause comes up, in facts found by a special verdict in the
Court below; by which it appears that the lessors of the -plaintiff ptoduced upon the trial a regular deduction of title from
Charles the Second down to themselves,, and the premises ih
question are admitted to be within the grant. And the general
question in the case is whethef this mud-flat passed under the
grant, and in virtue of the several donveyances set out in the
special verdict, became vested in the proprietors of Nw Jersey,
as private property. The opinion of-'a majority.of the Court. is
against this right, in which opinion, however, I cannt .co3.cur,
and 'shall briefly assign the reasons upon which my opinion
rests.
Some objections have been -made to the right of maintaining

JANTJARY TEAM', 1842.

419

[Marti et aL v.Waadel

an'action of' ejectment, gr6wing out of the-nature of the'sutjetmatteY in controversy'. There can be no grounds for such an
objection; The subject in question is the right to land. and nt to
water. It is the ordinary case of an ejeetment for land covered with.
water, and the premises are so set out and desdribed in the de&caration; and the special verdict finds that the lessors of the plaintiff,,
under the title by them shown, entered into the teiements-with
the appurtenanceg in the declaration mentioned, and was thereofpossessed until the defendant afterwards -entered upon; -nd
ejected, expelled, and removed the plaintiff from such possessiom
So that-the subject-malter in controversy is f6und not only to be
susceptible of actual possession, but to have been 'so possessed
and enjoyed.
A majority of the Court seem to have adopted the doctrine of'
Arnold v. Mundy, decided in the Supreme eourt-pf New Jersey,
1 Halst. 1, in which it is held,.that navigable rivers, where the tide
ebbs and flows, and the ports, bays, and coasts of te sea, including both the waters and the land under the' water, are common to
the people of New Jersey; and that, unddr the grant'bf Charles the
Second to the Duke of -York,'all,the.rights which th.eycall royalties passed to thetduke as governor of the province,.exercising
the royal authority, and not as proprietor of the soil 5 but that he.
held them as thustie for the benefit of all settlers in the'pYovin'ce,and tha "he proprietors did iot acquire ani suchright- to the soil;
that they would grant a several fishery;_ and ihat no person who
plants a bed of oysters in a navigable river, has such property ih
the oysters as to enable him to maintain an action of trespass
against any one who encroaches upon it. And this rests on the
broad proposition, that the title to the land under the water did
not, and could not, pass to the Duke of York, as private property. To maintain this .propiosftion, if must rest on the ground
that the' land unaer the water of a navigable river is not the subit can be conveyed by words, the.
ject of a private right; for
grant in the present case is broad enough to pass the title to the
land in question..
It is worthy of observation that the course of New Jersey in
relation to this claim is hardly consistent with her pretensions.
In the 'case of Arnold v. Mundy the chief justice says, upon the
Revolution all these rights became vested in the people of New

420

SUPIEME COURT.
[Martin et aL v. Waddell.]

Jersey as the sovereign of the country, and are'now in their
hands; and the legislature may regulate them, &c. But the
power which may be exercised by the sovereignty of the state,
is nothing more than what is called the jus regium. The right
of regulating, improving, and securing the same, for the benefit
of every individual itizen. The sovereign power itself, therefore, cannot consistently with the principles of the law of nature
and-the constitution of a well-ordered'society, make a direct and
absoluie grant of the waters of ihe state, divesting all the citizens
of a common right. It would be a grievance which never could
,be long-borne by a free people. o
If this be the received doctrine in New Jersey in relation to
the navigable waters of that state, and the oyster fisheries, they
remain comm6n to all the citizens of New Jersey, and never can
be appropriated to any'private or individual use, and all laws having such object in view must be utterly null and void; and it is
difficult to perceive how the law of New Jersey, found by the
special verdict, can be sustained. This actdeelares that the shore
and land covered with. Watei may be set apart and laid out by
commissioners for the purpose of growing and planting oysters
thereon, reserving such parts as might be judged necessary for
public acacmmodation ;,provided that nothing in the said act contained should authorize the commissioners to present any obstruction, or cause any injury to the navigation of the said sound and
river, or to any fishery or fisheries therein. Here the legislature
treat these flats, in -all respects as land, to be used foi planting
and growing oysters; and for the use of which a revenue is derived to the state, by the payment of a rent reserved. 'It is not
the use of the water for. any public l5urpose that this law contemplates; but an exclusive right to the use of the land under the
water, in contradistinction to the use of the water for purposes of
navigation; and that this law is so to be considered is manifest
from the proviso that no obstruction should be made to the
fishery or fisheries therein; and here is a manifest distinction
made between a fishery and an oyster-bed. For if it had been
-understood that the fisheries included oysteries, the enacting
clause and the proviso would present a glaring inconsistency.
The enacting clause authorizes the setting apart the oystery to
exclusive private use, when by the proviso no obstruction is to

-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

421

v.Waddell.)
[Martinet al.

be made to the fisheries. So that if an oystery is a fishery, tie
owner is deprived of the exclusive use of it. The act seems to
be founded upon a distinction clearly held up in many cases to
be found in the books, between an oystery and a fishery in the
common use of the term. The one applying to the use of land
under the water, which is peculiarly adapted to the growing of
oysters, and to be used for that purpose in the cultivation of
oysters,'as other lands- are used for the 'purpose to which they are
particularly adapted. Whereas a fishery, in common acceptation,
has reference to the use df the water for floating fish; and this
is a very obvious and natural distinction.
'.That the title to land under a navigable stream of water must
be held subject to certain public rights, cannot be denied. But
remains, what are such public rights? Navigathe question still
tion, passing and repassing, are certainly among those public
rights. And sh6uld it be admitted that the right to fish for floating fish was included in this public right, it would not decide the
15resent question. The premises in dispute are a mud-flat; and
the use to which it has been and is claimed to be applied is the
growing and planting of oysters. It is the use of land, and not
of water, that is in question. For the purpose of navigation, the
water is considered as a public highway, common to all; like a
public highway on land. If land over which a public highway
passes is conveyed, the soil passes, subject to that use; and the
purchaser may maintain an action for an injury to this soil not
connected with the use; and whenever it ceases to be used as a
public highway, the exclusive right of the owner attaches: so with
respect to the land under water, the public use f6r passing and
rep.ssini, and all the purposes for which a public way may be
-used, are opeft to the public; the owner, nevertheless, retaining
all the rights and benefits of the soil, that may not impede or interfere with the use as "apublic highway. "Should a coal-mnine,
for instance, be discovered under such highway, it would belong
to the owner of the soil, and might be used for his benefit; preserving, hnimpaired, the public highway. So with respect to an
oyster-bed, which is local, and is attached. to the soil. It is not
the water that is over the beds that is' claimed; that is common,
and may be used by. the public; but the use of the soil by the
o 'ner -wh'ich is consistent with the use of the water by the public,
VOL. XVI.2 N

422

SUPREME COURT.
(Martin etal. v. Waddell.]

is reserved to the owner. Suppose this mud-flat should, by the
wash from the fhore, or the receding of the water, or in any other
manner be filled up and become solid ground; which is by no
means an extravagant supposition; would not the proprietors be
considered the owners of this land, and have the exclusive right
to the use and enjoyment of it, if they had in no way parted with
such right. This cannot be denied, if the soil passed to and.
became vested in the proprietors under the grant to them. It
surely would, not be claimed by the state, it being no longer susceptible of public use.
The case of Brown v. Kennedy, 5 Har. & Johns. 195, is fully to
this point. The question there related to the right to the soil in
the bed of a navigable river, which had been diverted to a canal;
and it was held, that the property in the soil covered by the
water was vested in the lord proprietary, by the charter of
Maryland. That by the common law, the right was in the king,
and he might dispose of it sub modo. That the property in the
soil may be granted, subject to the jus publicum. That by the terms
of the'charter to Lord Baltimore, they clearly passed the property
in the soil covered by any waters within thQ limits of the charter.
And if the bed of the river had not been conveyed away, it would
have remained in the proprietary; and if an island had sprung
up, it would have been his; or if the bed of the river had been
left bare, it would be his, as the jus publicum would be destroyed.
The rules, and principles laid down by Lord Hale, as we find
them in Hargrave's Law Tracts, are admitted as containing the
correct common law doctrine as to the rights and power of the
king over the arms of the sea and navigable streams of water.
We there find it laid down, that the King of England hath a double
right in the sea, viz., a right of jurisdiction, which he ordinarily
exercises by his admiral, and a right of propriety or ownership.
Hargrave, 10. The king's right of propriety or ownership in the
sea and soil thereof, is evinced principally in these things that
follow.
The right of fishing in the sea, and the creeks, and arms thereof, is originally Jodged in the crown; as the right of depasturing is
originally lodged in -the owner of the coast whereof he is lord, or
as the right of fishing belongs to him that is the owner of a
private or inland river. But though the king is the owner of this

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

423

[Martin et al. v.Waddell.]

great coast, and as a consequent of his proprietary hath the primary right of fishing in the sea, and the creeks, and arms thereof;
yet the common people of England have regularly a liberty of
fishing in the sea, or creeks, or arms thereof as a public common of
piscary, and may not without injury to their right be'restrained of
it, unless in such places, creeks, or navigable rivers, where either
the'king or some particular subject hath gained a propriety 'exclusive of that common liberty. (11) In many ports and arms of the
sea, there is an exclusion of public fishing by prescription or
custom,(12) although the king hath prime facie this right in the
arms and creeks of the sea, communi jure, and in common presumption; yet a subject may have such a right in two ways.
1. By the king's charter or grant: and this is without question.
The king may grant fishing within some known bounds, though
within the main sea; and may grant the water and soil of a navigable river; (17) and such a grant (when apt words are used)
will pass the soil itself; and 'if there shill be a recess of the sea,
leaving a quantity of land, it will belong to the grantee. The
second mode is by custom or prescription. There may be the
right of fishing without having the soil, or by reason of owning the
soil, or a local fishery that arises from ownership of the soil. (18)
That, de communi jure, the right of the arms of the sea belong to
the king; yet a subject may have a separate right of fishing, exclusive of the king and of the common right of the subject. (20)
But this interest or right of the subject must be so used as not to
cccasion a common annoyance to the passage of ships or boats;
for that is prohibited-by the common law, as well as by several
statutes.
For the jus privatum that is acquired to the subject either by
patent or prescription, must not prejudice the jus publicum,
wherewith public rivers or arms of the sea are affected for public
use, (22)-as the soil of an highway in which, though in point
of pr6perty, may be a private man's freehold, yet it is charged
with a public interest of the people, which may not be prejudiced
or damnified, (36).
TI ese rules, as laid down by Lord Hale, have always been
considered as settling the law upon the subjects to which they
apply, and have been understood by all elemeniary writers as
governi- rules, and havce been recognised by.Courts of justice

424

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin et a]. v. Waddeli.3

as controlling doctrines. They establish that by the common law
the king is the owner of, all navigable rivers, bays, Bnd shores.
That he owns them in full dominion and propriety, and has full
power and authority to convey the, same; that he may grmnt a
several fishery in a navigable stream,-and the common law has
annexed only two limitations upon this power. That these
waters shall remain highways for passage and navigation, and
that whilst they remain ungranted, there is a common right of
fishery in them; but, subject to these limitations, the king has
as fall power to convey as an individual has -to convey the land
of which he is the owner.
I see nothing to countenance the distinctions set up, that the
king holds these subject as trustee, any more than he does the
dry land; or that he cannot convey them, discharged of the right
of common fishery. There is no reason for such distinctiori with
respect to land under water. The true rule on the subject is, that
prima facie a fishery in a havigable river is common, and-he who
sets up an exclusive right, must show title. either by grant or
prescription. This is the doctrine of the King's Bench, in England, in the case in 4 Burr. 2163. It was an action of trespass for
breaking and entering the plaintiff's close, called the river Severn;
,and the defence set up was, that it was a navigable river, and an
arm of the sea, wherein every subject has a right to fish; and that an
exclusive right cannot be maintained by a subject in a river that
is an arm df the-sea, but that the general right of fishing is coMmon to tl11. Bui this doctrine was not 'recognised by the Court.
Lord Mansfield said, the rule of law is uniform. In rivers not
navigable the proprietors of the land have the right oi fishing on
their respective- sides, and it generally extends ad filum medium
But in navigable rivers, the propri6tors of the land on
aqua
each side havq it not. The fishery is common. It is prim facie
in the king, and is public. If any one claims it exclusively, he
must show a right. If he can show a right by prescription, he
may then exercise an exclusive right; though the presumption is
against him, unless he can prove such a prescriptive right. Here it
is claimed and found. It is therefore consistent with all the cases,
that he may have an exclusive privilege of fishing, although it
is an arm of the sea, such a right shall not be presumed; but the
contrary, prima facie; but it is capable of being proved, and must

JANUARY TERM, 1842

425

[Martin et al. v. Waddell.1

have been so in the present case. -And Yates, Justice; says, he
was concerned in such a case but, the right was not proved, and
so found common; but such-a right may be proved, It may be
.appropriated by prescription; and he refers to the royal salmon
fishery in the river Banne, in Sir John Davies's Reports; and says
it is agreeable to this, and that it is a very good case. That-it
appears, by it that the crown may grant a several fishery in, a
navigable river where the sea flows and reflows, or in the arm of
the sea. And lie refers to the txse 1 Mod. 105, where, he observes, Lord Hale says truly if any, one will appropriate a privilege to himself, the proof lieth on 'his side. Now, if it may be
granted, it may be prescribed for: for a prescriptiqn implips a grant.
In the argument of' thiW case, the counsel on the part- of the
defendant referred -to the case of Warren v. Mathews, as reported
in 6 Mod. 73, where it is said. every subject of common right
may fish with lawful nets, &c., in anavigable river, as well as in
the sea; and the king's grant cannot bar them thereof; and this
case has been much relied on in the argument of the case now
before the Court. But this report of the case in 6 Mod. 73 is
clearly a mistake. It is the only case to be found in which the
broad priposition nere stated is recognised, that the kinig's grant
cannot bar the subject of the common right of fishing. And in
the report of the same case, I S6lk. 357, the case as stated is, that
one claimed solam piscariam, in the river Ex, by a -grant from
the crown. And, Nott, Chief Justice, said, th subject has a right
to fish in all navigable rivers as he has to fish in the sea; and a
quo warranto ought to-be granted to try the title of this grantee,
and the validity of his grant. Lord Nott, here, no doubt, meant
to speak of the prim facie right of the subject.: For if he intended to say that no such exclusive right could be given by grant
from the king, it would be absurd to issue a quo warranto to try
the title and validity of the grant, if by no possibility a valid
grant could be made. At all events, it is very certain that the
King's Bench, in the case of Carter v. Murcot, did not recognise
the doctrine of Warren and Mathews,. ap reported in 6 Mod. 73.
And under these circumstances, it is entitled to no weight in thedecision of the case no* before the Court.
It is unnecessary to refer to the numerous, cases in the English
books on this subject; the doctrine as laid down in the case of
2N2

54

426

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin et al. v. Waddell.]

Carter v. Murcot is universally recognised as the settled law on
the subject, and is fully adopted and sanctioned by the Courts of
this country. Numerous cases of this description have come
before the Coufts in the state of New York, and the principles and
rules as laid down in the case of Carter v. Murcot fully recognised and adopted. In the case of James and Gould, 6 Cowen, 376,
-the Court, in referring to that case, place the decision upon it, and
say, "This is the acknowledged law of Great Britain and of this
state; and cases are referred to showing such to be the settled law."
In'the case of Johnson v. M'Intosh, 8 Wheat. 695, this Court
say, that' according to the theory of the British constitution all
vacant lands are vested in the crown as representing the nation,
and the exclusive power to grant them is admitted to reside in
the crown as a branch of the royal prerogative. And this principle is as fully recognised in America as in Great Britain.
All the lands we hold were originally granted by the crown.
Our whole country has been granted; and the grants purport to
convey the soil as well as the right of dominion to the grantee.
Here the absolute ownership is recognised as being in the crown,
and to be. granted by the crown, as the source of all title; and
this extends as well to land covered by water as to the dry land;
otherwise, no title could be acquired to land under water. There
is in this case no iltimation that any of the lands are vested in
the crown as trustee, but as absolute owner. If lands under
water can be granted and are actually granted, the grantees must
6f, course acquire all the right to the use and enjoyment of such
lands of which they are susceptible as private property, as much
so as the dry land; and there can be no grounds for any implied
reservation of ungranted rights in the one case more than in the
other; and the grant of the soil carries with it, of course, all the
uses to which it may be applied, among which is an exclusive
or several fishery. All grants of land, whether dry land or
covered with water, are for great public purposes subject to the
control of the sovereign power of the country. - So the grant of
the soil under water, which carries with it a several fishery, is
subject to the use of the water for the public purposes of navigation, and.passing and repassing; but it is nowhere laid down
as the law of the land, that a several fishery is a part of the jus.
publicum, and open to the use of the public. So long as the

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

427

[Martin et al. v. Waddell.]

fishery remains ungranted, it is common, and may be used by the
public; but when granted to individuals, it becomes private property as much as any other subject whatever; and I think the
law is too well settled, that a fishery may be the subject of a
private grant, to be at this day drawn in question.
If,
then, according to the principles of the common law, the
king had the power to grant the soil under the waters of a navigable stream, where the tide ebbs and flows; and if such grant
of soil carries with it the right of a several fishery, to the exclusion of a public use, the remaining inquiries are whether the'
grant of Charles the Second to the Duke of York, in the" year
1664, did convey the premises in question; and if so, then, whether this right was surrendered by the proprietors of New Jersey
to Queen Anne, in the year 1702.
This charter to the Duke of York is one containing not only a
grant of the soil, but of the powers of government. This Court.
in the ease of Johnson v. M'Intosh, in noticing the .various charters from the crown, cbserve, that they purport to convey the
soil and right of dominion to the grantees. In .those governments
whIch were denominated royal, where the right to the soil was
not vested in individuals, but remained in the crown, or was
vested in the colonial government, the king claimed and exercised the right of granting the lands. Some of these charters
purport to convey the soil al6ne, and in those cases in which the
powers of government as well as the soil are conveyed to individuals, the crown has always acknowledged itself to be bound
by the grant; and in some instafices, even after the powers of
government were reves~ed in the crown, the title of the proprietors of the soil was respected. The Carolinas were originally
proprietary governments; but in 1721 a revolution was effected
by the people who shook off their obedience to the proprietors,
anl declared their dependence iMmediately on the crown, and
the king purchased the title of those proprietors who were disposed to sell. Lord Carteret, however, who was one of the proprietors, surrendered his interestin the gpvzrnment, but retained
his title to the soil; and that- title was zespeted till the Revolution, when it was forfeited by the laws of war.
This shows the light in which these charters, granting the soil,
were considered by this Court. That they conveyed an absolute

428

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin eta,.v. Waddell.]

interest in the soil, and passed every thing susceptible of private
and individual ownership, of which a fishery is 6ertainly one, according to the settled law, by the authorities I have referred to.
Subject always, as before mentioned, to the jus publicum, or rights
of navig'ation and trade; but of which the right of a common
fishery forms no Dart, after the soil has been conveyed as private
property.
,It
is unnecessary to notice particularly the various charters and
mesne conveyances set out in the special verdict. It was admitted
on the argument, that the premises in question fall within these
conveyanices; and vested in the proprietors of New Jersey all the
right and title both of soil and the powers of government, which
passed to the Duke of York under the charter of Charles the Second. The terms employed ilthe description of the rig'hts conveyed, are of the most comprehensive character, embracing the
land, soil, and waters. After a general description and designation of the territory embraced within the charter, and compyehending the premises in question, it adds, "Together with all the
lands, islands, soils, riverq, harbours, milies, minerals, quarries,
woods, marshes, waters, lakes, fishings, hawkings huntings, and
fowlings, and all other royalties, profits, commodities, and hereditaments, to the said several' islands, lands, and premises-belongibg
and appertaining with all and every of their appurtenafices, and
all our estate, right, title, interest, benefit, advantage, claim, and
demand of, in, or to the said lands, and premises, or. any part or
parcel thereof, and the reversion and reversions; remainder and
remainders thereof, to have and to hold all and singular, the premises hereby granted, or herein mentioned, unto our- brother
James, Duke of York, his heirs and assigns forever; to be holden
of us our heir and successor in 'free and common soccage." If
these terms are not broad enough to include every thing susceptible of being conveyed, it is difficult to conceive what others
could be employed, for that purpose. The special verdict after
setting out the mesne conveyances, by which the title is deduced
down to the proprietors of New Jersey, sets out a conlirmation
of the title in the proprietors by Charlbs the, Second, as follows,
"And the jurors on their oath aforesaid further say, that the said
Charles the Second, afterwards, to wit, on the twenty-third day
of November, in the year of our Lord .one thousand six hundred

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

429

(Martin et al. v.-WaddelL]

and eighty-three, by a certain instrument in writing duly executed,
bearing date on the same day and year last aforesaid; and reciting
the said last-mentioned indenture from the said Duke of York, to
the said twenty-four proprietors, did recognise their right- to the
soil and government of the said province of East New Jersey,
whereof the tenements aforesaid with the. appurtenances in the
declaration aforesaid are parcel, and did strictly'charge and command the planters and inhabitants, and all other persons con- cerned in the same, to submit and yield all due obedience to -the
laws and government of the said twqnty-four proprietors, their
heirs and assigns, as absolute proprietors -and governors thereof,
who in the words of the said instrument in writing, had the sole
power and right, derived under the. said Duke of York, from him,
the said Charles -the Second, to settle and dispose of the said province of East New Jersey, upon such terms and conditions, -as to
the twenty-tour proprietors, their heirs and assigns should deem
meet." Here is the most full recognition and confirmation of
the right and title of the proprietors to the soil, with the absolute
power to dispose of the same in such manner as they should
think proper. The absolute ownership could not be expressed
in a more full and unqualified a manner. In the case of Fairfax
v. Hunter's Lessee, 7 Cranch, 618, the quesfion was as to the
legal effect and operation of certain descriptive woids in a charter of Charles the Second; and Mr. Justice Story in giving the
opinion of the Court, said, "The first question is, whether Lord
Fairfax was proprietor of and seised of the soil, of the waste and
upappropriated lands ij, the northern neck by virtue of the royal
grants of Charles the Second,.and James the Second; or whether
he had mere seignoral rights therein as lord paramount, disconnected with all interest in the land, except of sale and alienation.
The royal charter expressly conveys all that entire tract, territory, and parcel of land, situate, &c., together with all the rivers,
islands, woods, timber, &c., mines, quarries of stone, and coal, &c.,
to'the grantees and their heirs and assigns, to their only use and
behoof, and to no other use, intent, br purpose whatsoever." " It
is difficult," say the Court, "to conceive terms more explicit than
these to vest a title and interest in the soil itself. The land is
given, and the exclusive use thereof; and if the union of the title,
and the exclusive use do not constitute the complete an.d absolute

430

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin et al. v. Waddell]

dominion in the property, it will hot be easy to fix any which
shall constitute such dominion."
The terms here used are certainly not more broad and comprehensive than those used in the
charter under consideration; and if they will pass the right to the
soil in the one case, they certainly must in the other.
The land
in the one case being covered with water, and in the other not,
can make no difference as to the passing of the title, if land under
water can be conveyed at all; and whatever the public right to
the use of the water may be, it can give no right to the use of the
land under the water, which has by the grant become private
property. And if, as I think the authorities clearly show, a grant
of the soil carries with if the right to every private use to which
it can be applied, including the cultivation of oysters, there can
be no ground upon which this can be claimed as a common right.
A several fishery and a common fishery are utterly incompatible
with each other. The former is founded upon and annexed to
the right of soil. And when that right of soil is acquired by an
individual, the several fishery begins, and the common fishery
ends.
Did the proprietors, then, by the surrender to Queen Anne, in
the year 1702, relinquish any rights of private property in the
soil derived under the charter of Charles the Second? I think it
is very clear that they surrendered nothing but the mere powers
of government granted by the charter, retaining unaffected in
any manner whatever the right of pfrivate property.
Th special verdict states this surrender as follows: "That on
the fifteenth day of April, in the year one thousand seven hundred and two, the said twenty-four proprietors and the other persons, in whom, by sundry mesne conveyances and assurances in
the law, the whole estate, right, title, and interest' in the said province of East New Jersey, were vested at the safd last-mentioned
date, Ps proprietors thereof, by an instrument in writing under their
hands and seals, bearing date the same day and year last aforesaid, did for themselves and their heirs surrender and yield up
unto Anne, Queen of England, &c., and to her heirs and successors, all the powers and authorities in the said letters patent
grante4, to correct, punish, pardon, govern, and rule all or any
of her said majesty's subjects or others who then were, as inhabitants, or thereafter might adventure into, or inhabit within the

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

431

[Martirnet al. v. Waddell.]

said province of East New Jersey. And also to nominate, make,
constitute, ordain, and confirm any laws, orders, ordinances,
directions, and instruments for those purposes, or any of them ;
and to nominate, constitute or appoint, revoke, discharge, change
or alter any governor or governors, officers or ministers, which
were or should be appointed within the said province; and to
make, ordain, and establish any orders, laws, directions, instruments, forms, or ceremonies of government and magistracy for
or concerning the same, or on the sea, in going to or coming from
the same, or to put in execution or abrogate, revoke or change
such as were already made for or concerning such government,
or any of them. And also the powers and authorities by the said
letters patent granted, to use and exercise martial law in the said
province of East New Jersey. And to admit any persons to
trade or traffic there. And of encountering, repelling, and resisting by- force of arms, any person or persons attempting to inhabit
there without the license of them, the said proprietors, their heirs
and assigns. And all other the powers, authorities, and privileges
of and concerning the government of the province last aforesaid,
or the inhabitants thereof, which were granted, or mentioned to be
granted by the said several above-recited letters patent, or either
of them. And that the said Queen Anne afterwards, to wit, on
the seventeenth day of the same month of April, in the year last
aforesaid, did accept of the said surrender of the said powers of
government, so made by the said proprietors, in and over the
premises last aforesaid."
I do not perceive, in this surrender, a single term or expression
that can in the remotest degree have any reference to the private
property conveyed by the giant, or to any matter except that
which related to the powers of government. All the enumerated
subjects manifestly have relation only to such powers. And after
this specification of particulars comes the general clause, "and all
other the powers, authorities, and privileges of and concerning
tho government ;" necessarily implying that the-specified subjects
related to the powers of government; and the acceptance by
the queen manifestly limits the surrender to such powers; she
accepts the said surrender of the said powers of government so
made by the proprietors in and ovef the premises.
"Ifthere was any thing in the language here used, which could.

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin et Lv. Waddell.]

in the least degree render doubtful the object and purpose of this
surrender, the memorials of the proprietors, aid the correspondence which took place on the subject referred to on the argument,
as contained in the collection of Leaming and Spicer, must remove all doubt, and show that the surrender was confined e.1clusively to the powers of government, and intended to operate, not
only as a surrender of such powers, but as a confirmation of all
right and title to the soil and private property of the proprietors.
And if so, the proprietors' right must depend upon the power of
the king to grant the right claimed in the .premises, and the construction of the charter, as to what it does embrace. And, I have
endeavouxed to show, that by the settled and uncontradicted
principles of the common law, the king had the tower to grant
the land under the water of' a navigable river; and, that such
grant carries with it to the grantee all rights of private property
of which -the land is susceptibleo subject to the jus publicum.
That the grant of the soil necessarily carries with it a several and
exclusive fishery, which is utterly incompatible with the iights
of a common fishery, and which of course can form no part of
the jus publicum; and that the grant in question of Charles the
Seco~id to the Duke of York, conveyed all private right in the
soil whieh could be conveyed by the king; all which rights, by
sundry mesne conveyances, became vested in the proprietors of
East New Jersey, and from them to the lessor of the plaintiff.
And I can discover nothing in the authorities giving countenance
to the idea that the king held the land covered by the waters of a
navigable river as trustee, or.by a tenure different from that by
which he held the dry land. And I must again repeat, if the
king heid such lands as trustee for the common benefit of all his
subjects, and inalienable as private property, I am unable to discover on what ground the state'of New Jersey can hold the land
discharged of such trust, and can assume to dispose of it. to the
private and exclusive use of individuals. If it was a trust estate
in the king for the benefit of his subjects, and upon the Revolution,
the government, of New Jersey became the trustee in the place
of the king, and the trust devolved upon such government, and
the land became as inalienable in the government of Rew Jersey
as in the hands of the king, and the state must be bound to hold
all such lands subject to the trust, which, as contended, embraces
-

JANUARY -TERM, '1842,

4,33

[Martin et al. v. WaddeH.)

a common right of fishery in the waters, and the dredging for
oysters in the land covered by the waters; and if this be so,
there certainly can be no power in the state, without a breach of
trust, to deprive the citizens of New Jersey of such common
right, and convert these oy~ter grounds to the private. and: exchrsive use of individuals.
There is nothing in the case, in my.judgment, showing a usage
in the state by which the proprietors have either directly or by
implication relinquished .or abandoned 'any right of property
which they derived under the charter of Charles the Second.
All the authority exercised by the state in grantingferries, bridges,
turnpikesj and rail-roads, &c., are the exercise of powets vested
in the government over private property for public uses, and
formed a part of the powers of government surrenadered by the
proprietors to Queen Anne; and it is only since the decision in
Arnold v. Mundy, that the private right of the proprietors to the
lands under the waters in New Jersey, has bein denied, and assumed by the state to grant the same to individuals and even in
such cases it has been done" cautiously, and apparently with
hesitation as to the right of the state. In the two- cases referred
to on the argument, df a grant to N. Burden, on'the 8th, of .November, 1836, and to Aaron Ogden, on the 25th of January,
1837, of land under the water, the grant is a -mre' release or
quit claim pf the state; but the proprietors have been in the- habit
of making grants for land under the water from the time of 'the
surrender tq Queen Anne down'to the year 1820, and numerous
instances of such grants were referied to on. the argunietit.
With respect, however, t. the ngbt of fishery, there is in my
judgment a marked. distinciion,' b6th, in -reason and authority.,
between the right in relation to floating-fish, and the right of
dredging for oysters. The latter is entirely local arid connected
with the soil. There are natural beds of oysters, but in other
places there is a peculiar soil, adapted to the growin ot oysterb.
They are planted and cultivatedeby the hand of man like other
productions of the earth and the books in many cases clearly holds
up such a distinction, and speak of the oyster fishery as distinct from
that of floating fish, 5 Burr. 2814;. and in the case of Rogers ana,
others v. Allen, Camp. Rep; 309, this distinction is expressly
taken. It was an action of trespass for breaking and entering
55
VOL. XVI.-2 0

434

SUPREME COURT.
[Martin et a]. v. Waddell.]

the several oyster fishery of the plaintiffs in Burnham river, and
fishing and dredging for oysters. The defence set up was that
the locus in quo was a navigable river, in which all the king's
subjects had a right to fish and dredge for oysters; and evidence
was introduced showing that all who chose had been accustomed
to fish in Burnham river for all sorts of floating fish without
interruption; and it was contended that a fishery was entire, and
that as it had been proved that it wis lawful for all the king's
subjects to catch floating fish, so they might lawfully dredge for
oysters: But Heath, Jhstice, ruled otherwise, and said a fishery
was divisible; a part may be abandoned, and another part of
more value may be preserved. The public may be entitled to
catch floating fish in the river Burnham, but it by no means follows that they are justified in dredging for oysters, which may
still remain private property: and although a new trial was
granted upon another point in the case, the doctrine as above
stated was not at all impugned by the Court of King's Bench.
Upon the whole, I am of opinion that the judgment of the
Circuit Court ought to be affirmed.

