SUPREME COURT.

THoMAs WooD, JUNIOR, CLAIMANT 0-F TWENTY-TWO PACKAGES
OR PIECES OF 'CLOTH, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE UNITED
STATps, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
'he United States filed in the Distrit Couit of the United States, for the Maryland
district, a libel of information, in rem, upon aseizure upon land, in the district, of
twenty.two pieces of cloth imported into New York, and claiming them as forfeited.
The libel ontained many counts, but that on which the decision of the Supreme Court
was given, was founded on the sixty-sixth section of-the revenue act of 1799, which
declares that any goods which shall'not be invoiced according to the actual cost there,of at the place of exportation, with-design to evade the duties thereupon, all such
goodj, &c., shall beforfeited. The count stated that the g(xla were not invoiced at the
actual cost at the place of exportation. The duties had been paid at New York, on the
invoice producea on their ebtry They were afterwards transmitted to Baltimore,
and were there seized in the storqs of certain persons. having the custody thereof for
the importer, who was the claimant, under a search-warrant, procured from a-ma'gistrate.' To establish the fraud in the invoices, the United States offered in evidence
stindry other invoices ofcloth and cassimere, imported into New York by and consigned
tb the claimant, to show- the fraudulent intention of the claimant in those importations as well as in the present. This .evidence was objected to, and the objection
was overruled. The District Judge, after the whole evidence was gone through,
gave thb following instructions to the jury. 1. That the issues found, and which
the j~ry are, sworn to try, involve no question except upon the causes of forfeiture
alleged in the information and traversed; and therefore, no question relating to the
mere seizure of the goods is in issue, or material under the pleadings. 2. If the
jury shall find fom the evidence in the caue, that the invoices of the goods proceded agains, weie'made up with intent, by false valuations, to evade or defraud
the revenue, the United States are entled to recovir, although the jury should'also
find from the evidence that the goods had been passed through the custom-house at
New York, by the collector, and'the duties calculated by him on the invoices shall
have been paid, or secured to be paid, and the goods delivered by the cp~lector to the
import r. 3. That under dertgn counts in the information, probable cause for the
prosecution had been , shown, by the United States; and that the-burden of proof,
tnder the seventy-first sectin.a of the act of 2d of March, 1799, was upon the claimant; and that it is incumbent on. him to prove to the jury, that the charges in the five
counts, charging fraudulentimportation, are untrue; that is, that, he shall prove the
truth of the invoices on which the goods weo ente-ed, and that the invoices and
packages were not made up to evade or defraud the revenue. 4..That the burden
of proof being on the claimant under the seventy-first section of the act of 1799, and
the fifteenth section of the act of 14th July, 1832, it is incumbent' on him to prove
the actual cost of the goods in the invoices and entries stated to have been purchased by him; and that the value of the gods at the time of the seizure, or at
any subsequent time, is not material, except so far 'as to assist or tend to enable the
'ury to ascertain the prices at the periods of purchase or sbipment. 5. That the

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

343

[Wood ce.The United States.]
burden of proof being upon the claimant, to prove that the invoices were not made
up with intent to defraud the revenue, it is not sufficient for him to rely on the invoices themselves, merely, as proving their own truth and fairness. The case was
removed by writ of error to the Circuit Court, and there -a judgment, affirming the
judgment of the District .Court, having been entered, the claimant prosecuted a writ
'of error to the Supreme
Court.
Held, first: That the itruetions of the District Judge as to the original seizure, or the
causes thereof, were correct. ' It is of no consequence, whatsoever, what were the original grounds of the seizure, whether founded or not; if the goods were in point of law
subject to forfeiture. The United States 'are not bound down by the acts of the
seizors to the causes which influenced them in making the seizure, nor by any irregularity on their part in conducting it, if the seizure can be maintained as founded
on an actual forfeiture, at the time of the'seizure. it was rightly held in the District
Court, that no question arbse on the issues which the jurr were to try, except uvon
the causes of forfeiture alleged in the information.
Second: There was no eiror in the admission of the e&idenceof fraud deducible from
the otler invoices offered in the case. The question was one of fraudulent intent, or
not, and upon questions of ihat sort, wlberethe, intent of thd party is the matter in
issue, it has always been allowable, as well in criminal asoin civif cases, to introduce*
evidence of other acts and doings of the party of a kindred charadter, in order to
illustrate his intent ar motive in the particular act directly in j, dgmant.
Third: If the invoices of the goods were fraudulently made, by a false valuation to evade
or defraud the revenue, the fact that they were entered, and the duties having been paid
or secured at the custom-house at New York upon these invoices, was no bar to the'
information for the forfeiture of the goods -to the United States.' It never can be
permitted, that a party who perpetrates afraud upon the custom-house and thereby
enters his goods bpon false invoices and false'valuations, and gets a regular delivery
thereof upon the payment of such duties as such false invoices and false valuations
require, can avail himself of 'that very fraud to defeat the purposes of justice.
The sixty-sixth section of the revenue collection act of 1799, ch. 128, remains in full
force.
There must be a positive repugnancy between the new and old laws for the collection
of the revenue before the old law can be considered as repealed; and even then, the
old law is repealed by implication only,'pro tanto, to the extent of the repugnancy.
The addition of other powers to custom-hous officers to carry into effect the object
of the former laws, and sedulously introduced to meet the case. of &palpable fraud,
should not be 'considered as repealing the former laws. There" ought to be a manifest and total repugnancy in the provisions 'of the later laws, to lead to the conclusion that they abrogated, and were designed to abrogate the former laws.
The burden of proof in the absence of fraud in'the entry of the goods was thrown upon
the claimant. There was probable cause'for seizure shown. Probable cause must,
under the seventy-first section of the act of 1799, in connection with the circumstances of this case, mean reasonable ground of presumptioh that the charge is or
may be well founded.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United-States for the dis
trict of Maryland.

844

SUPREME, COURT.
(Wobd v. The Um

Statq]

At the District Covrt of the United States, for the district of
Maryland, on the g'0th day of December, 1839, the United States'
filed-an information claiming a forfeiture of tWenty-two pieces
of cloth, of, the value of twenty-five hundred dollars. The information.contained nine countj. Afterwards, and before the trial
of the cause before a jury, a discontinuance was entered by the
*districtattorney of the United States, of the first, second, third,
fourth, and fifth counts. The case was tried before a jury in July,
1840 on the remaining' counts in tfi9 information ; and a verdidt
aild judgnent were rendered in favour of the United States. The
claimant took-a bill of exceptions to the charges of the Court,
and prosecuted a writ of exror to the Circuit Court. In thai
Court, a judgment was entered, pro formg, In favour of the.
United States; and the dase was7broyuight by the claimant, .homas
Wood, by writ of error to th Supieme Court.
IThe information fied by the United Sthtes, in the District
Court, in the third- count, on the sixiy-sixth section of the collection act of 1199 alleged that the goods were not invoiced according to their actualooost at the port of exportation; with design to
evade the duties thereon. The sixth, seventh, and eighth counts
on the .fourth sectioii of the supplementary act of .1830, and, the
ninth count on the fourteenth section of the act of 1832, alleged,
under dii~erent forms of statement, that the invoices on which
the goods-had been entered, and.the packages containing them,
had been made up with intent to evade or defraud the revenue.
The defendant's first plea was a denial-that the goods had been
seized for the same causes of forfeiture alleged in the information.
The second plea set forth certain warrants issued under the sixtyeighth section of the act of 1799, authorizing the seqch for and
seizure of goods entered without permits and concealed in certaili
stores inBajimore, and-alleged that the seizure was made under
'these warrants and not under any other authority or for any
'other cause than that which was contained in them. The third
plea alleged that the goods in question were imported into New
York, and duly entered and unladen under regular permits; that
in order too the ascertainment of the duties, the collector caused,
them to be appraised according to their actual value at the time
and p]Rce of exporiafion, and also caused one package out of
'every invoice, and one package out of every twenty packages

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

M

[Wood v. The United States.]

of each invoice, to be opened and examined; and that -the package so opened and examined were found and reported tQ the
collector to be correctly and fairly invoiced and put up; that,
after said examination and appraisement, the duties on the goods .
were duly ascertained and estimated by the- collector, and paid
by the claimant; that -heywere then delivered to the claimant
and were shipped'by'him -to his agents in Baltimore; and'that,
whilst in possession of said agents, they were seized by the collector of the port of Baltimore, as alleged in the information.
To each of these three first pleas the United States demurred.
generally, and the Court below being of opinion that they contained no matter of defence to the information, gave judgment in
favour of the United States on the demurrers.
The remaining pleas were in succession applidable xespectively
one to each 'of the counts of the information,. and were siinpi;
traverses of the respective causes of forfeiture alleged-in them.
Issue was joined on each of these pleas. These,.which were the
only issues of fact tried, resuted in a general. veidict for the.
United States; on wtich a judgment of condemnation was afterwards entered as above stated.
It appeared by the bill of exceptions, that-at the trial.the United
States, to maintain the issues on their part, read in evidence'to the
jury, four entries and, invoices, which, it was admitted, were original entries and invoices; and had contained the twenty-two
pieces of cloth against which the information was filed; and it was
admitted that the numbers now on said pieces aro the sare
that they were when imported, and have not been-changed or
altered; that the said four invoices were severally passed thoigh
the custom-house of the port of New York, according to the forms
prescribed by the acts'of Congress; and that, with one exception,
the said twenty-two pieces were included in the ackages designatcd 13y the collector' of New York to be opened -and examined.
And it was further admitted and 'agreed that the duties onthe
amount of each of said foIur invoices had been paid, accordin& to
the prices therein stated; and that the goods therein mentioned
had been delivered under regular permits to the claimant, who
afterwards shipped the twenty-two pieces taken from several of
the original packages included in said four invoices, to the con..
signment of Beadell and Company, at Baltimore, for sale,
44

SUPREME COURT.
[Wood v. The United States.]

It also appeared by the evidence on the part of the United
States,.that the claimant had entered at the port of New York, in
the years 1839 and 1840, twenty-nine importations, of which.
those in questidn were a part, - Twenty-eight of these importations, including the four in question, Were entered b~y him, and
upon his oath, as goods of which he was the actual owner, by
having purchased them for exportation from the party by whom
they were invoiced to h.m. Of these importations, the four which
included the twenty-two pieces in questiob, were entered in 1839.
Fifteen importations had been previously made, and ten were
made after these four importations. All of the twenty-nine entries were accompanied by invoioes. From the aggregate gr'ss
apparent cost of the goods in these invoices, some of which contained cloths alone, and others both cloths and cassimeres, there
was'a deduction in every invoice of five per cent., in some cases
described to be 'a discount for cash, in others for measurement,
and in two without stating for what. It was in proof -by
persons conversant with the British market, that, by the coarse
of business in the places where the goods purported by the invoices to have been .boughti -no such discount or deduction was
evet allowed on cassimeresi whether invoiced separately or included in the same invoice with cloths. It was also proved, by
persons well acquainted with the same markets at the time of the
alleged purchases, that the goods could not at that time have
been fairly bought for less than prices which exceeded, by a large
per centage, the prices mentioned in the invoices: and, with a
view to show further, that the invoices were fictitious as to the
prices, and that the discount was fictitious, it was proved that, in
every one of his importations made after the seizure of the goods
in question, the claimant acquiesced without app.eal or objection,
in the acts of the assistant appraisers of the customs and their assistants, in disallowing a similar discount or deduction of five per
cent., and in raisingthe amount of their appraisements considerably beyond the prices mentioned in the invoices.
Before the evidence was -given on the part of the United States,,
the counsel of the claimant objected to the admissibility in evidence of the invoices of the other goods imported by the claimants
as above, before and after the importation of the goods in question, aln& of the oral testimony offered as above, in connection

JANTARY TERM, 1842.

$47

[Wood v. The United States.]
with them. "But 'the Court overruled the opjectlon, being of
-opinion that the question in the cause was.a question of fraudulent intention- the inquiry being whether the invoices of the goods
in controversy were made up with intent to evade the act of
Congress, and defraud the revenue; an4 that the acts .of the
claimant in passing other goods through the gustom-house are
evidence."
This opinion f6rmed the subject, of the fitst exception ofthe
claimant, on which he now insisted in this Court. rhe second
exception was to -the refusal of the Court- below to give to the
jury the instructions requested,by the counsel of the claimant,
and ado to the instructions given by the Court t, the jury.
Tb understand the character and extent of this exception, it is
neeessary to introduce the prayers of both parties for instructions to the jury, with the answers of the Court. The United
States, by their counsel) prayea the, Couit for its opinion'and
direction to the jur :
1. That the issuea which the jury are sworn to try, inv6lve.
no questions except upon the causes of forfeiture alleged and
traversed; therefore, no question relating to the seizure of.the
goods isn issueor in any respect material upon'the-pleadings
inthis case.
2. That if the jury find, from thd evidence in this cause, that
the invoices which contain 'tIe goods now in controversy, were
niade up with.anrintent to evade~or defraud the revenue of the
United States, the -United States are entitled, to condernmatiQn of
the said goods; although the jury should also find from the evidence, that the said goods have .been passed through the customhouse, at N'ew York, by the collector thereof, or by the appraisers,
or other officers of the customs, and the duties calculated thereon
.been paid, or secured to be paid, and the said goods delivered by
the-said collector to the importer.
3. That there has been shown, on the part of the United States,
probable cause for the prosecution, under the third, si kth, seventa.
eighth; and hinth counts of the information; and, therefore, under
the seventy-first secti'on o tne act of 2d Marsh; 1799, the burden
,of proof lies, upon Thomas Wood, Jr., the claimai-; and it is incumbent on him to prove to the jury-that the charges in: the said
Iivo counts of the information are untrue, that is, to, prove,ihat

348

SUPREME COURT.
[WoDo v. The United Stateg.)

the goods .in question were invoiced according to their actual cost
at the place of exportation, and that the invoices and packages

were not made up with intent to evade or defraud the revenue.
4. The burdsn of proof being upon the claimant, to prove that
the invoices were not made up with intent to defraud the.rev'enue,
that it is not sufficient f6r him to rely upon the invoices merely;
as proving their truth and fairness.
5. The burden of proof being upon the claimant, it is incum'bent on him to prove to the jury the actual cost of the goods in,
question, afld that" he does not relieve himself of this burden, of
proof by evidence of the mere value of said goods, except so far
as such value may tend to show actual cost.
And the claimant, by. his counsel, prayed the Court to give the
following. instiuctions to the jury:1. That under a true construction of the seventy-first section
of the'act of Congress of the -2d of March, 1799, it is incumbent
on the United States to show, by evidence, a seizure in pursuance
of said act, or of other acts, if any, regulating seizures, and that
in' the bbsehce of such evidence, the onus probandi cannot be
thrown upon the claimant by proof of probable cause; proof of
probable cause of such seizure being made by said section a prerequisite which muss be complied with.
'2. That upon the evidence offered by the United States in this
cause, the onus probandi does not lie upon the plaintiff.under the
provisions of the. seventy-first section of the act of 1799, because
no probable cause has been shown to the Court for the prosecution in this case.
3. If the jury find from the evidence that the gobds mentioned
in the third count of the information were entered in the office of
the colletor of the collection district of New York, in the southern
district of New York, and rere unladen and delivered from the
vessels in which they were i~nported, under permits granted by
said collector, who caused, the said goods, wares and merchandise
to-be examined, and -that after such examiation, the duties on
the same were ascertained and estimated by said, collector, and
paid by the said claimant, and the said goods were, by the afithority of the collector delivered to the said claimant; and if the jury
further believe that the claimant caused the original packages in
which -aid goods were imported 'to be broken up, and ahipped

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

349.

[Wood v.The United State .
said.goods, forming a part of said packages, to his agents in Baltimore for sale, and that said goods were seized'after their actual
arrial in Baltimore, and not before; that the United States are
not entitled t6 recover under the third count of the information.
4. That the United States are not entitled to recover under the
said third count nf the information, because the 'si -sixth section of the act of Codgress, passed on the 2d of March; 1799,,
entitled "fAn act to regulate the collection of duties, on imports
and tonnage," was not in force when the gqods mebtioned in said
third count were imported.
5. That if the jury.believe, from the evidence, that the collector
of the port of New York caused t least one package out of every
invoice, and onepackage at least out of every twenty packages
of each inyoice containing the odds mentioned in the'sixth and:
seventh counts of the information, tobe'opened and eiamined; and
examinatiodi designated'on the
that said packages were befor.cb teh
several invoices in which they werer~spectively included; and that,
said- collector did not deem it necessgry that 'a gieater number of
package's than those so designated should be opened and examined.
And if the jury further find that upon such opening and exaination, the gdods were, in the judgment of the examining officer, found to correspond with said invoices, and not to be false ly
charged in said invoices; and that after the said examination, the
duties on said goods were ascertained and estimated by said collector, and. paid- by the claimant, and said, goods were delivered.
to the claimant; who -afterwards sent them, to his agents in Baltimore for sale; and that the seizure onwhich'said information is
founded,.Nyas made after kaid goods had arrived in Baltimore;
that then the United §tates -dre not entitled to -recover under the
said sixth count, so far as the same charges the invoices to have
been found to -be 'made up .with intent, by a falselvaluaion or
extension, to evade or defraud the revenue.*of the Uniied States;
not under the said 'seveDth count.
6. That there is no evidence in the cause from which the juiy.
can find that the packages iriwhich the goods mentioned in the
sixth and eighth counts of the information were imported into
New York, we're found upon"examination itt the disirictof Miryland, tolbe made uip with intent'A evade anA defraudthe reveniie
of the United States,,and that therefore'the Uniteid States are not
VoL. XVI.-2 G

350

-StUPREME COURT.
[wod v.The United Btsitf]

entitled to recover under said eighth count, nor under said seventh
count, so far as the same charges the packages to be made up
with such fraudulent intent.
.7. That the United States are not entitled to recover upon
either of the said sixth, seventh and eighth counts of said information, because the Iourth section of the act of Congress, passed on
the 28th of May,:1830, entitled "An act for the more effectual
collection of the import duties,, was not in force when the goods
mentioned in said sixth,' seventh, and eighth counts were imported.
8. That there is no evidence in the cause -from which the jury
can find that the packages or either of them in which the, goods
mentioned in the' ninth count of the information were imported,
were opened and examined at-the district of Maryland on the
day mentioned in'said count, or at an] other time, and were found
to be made up with intent to evad6 or defraud therevenue; and
that therefore the United States are not entitled to recover upon
said ninth count..
But the' Court refused-to give the instructions prayed for, 'both
.by the United States and the claimantand rejected the same, aud
each and every of them; but gave the'following instructions and
directions to. the jury.
I. That the issues formed, and which the jury are sworn to
try, involve no question except upon the causes of forfeiture
alleged in the information and traversed; and therefore no question relating to the mere seizure of the gdods is in issue or material under the pleadings in thig.cause.
2. If the jury shall find from the evidence'irt the cause, that the
invoices of the goods in question were made-up with intent, by a
false valuaiQn, to evade or defraud the revenue, the plaintiffs" are
eidtled to recover; although the jury should also fihd from the
evidence, that the said goods have been passed through the 'custo'mahouse atNew York, by the collector thereofS and the duties
dAlculated by him onr-said invoices shall have been paid or secured
t6,be paid, and the saia goods delivered lby said collector to the
importer.
3. That there has been shown on the part of the'United States,
probable cause for the present prosecution under the third colitS,
and the sixth,'seventh, eighth, anTiinth counts in the-infbrmation,

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

. 351

[Woowtv. The United Stat .]

and that the burden of proof lies, under the seventy-first section
ofthe act of the 2d of March, 1799, upon Thomas Wood, Jr., the
claimant; and that it is incumbent upon him to prove to the jury
-that the charges in the said five counts.aye, untrue; that is, to
prove that the goods in question were invoiced according to their
actual cost at the port -of exportation, and that the invoices and
packages were not niade up with intent to evade or defraud the
revenue.
4. That the burden of proof being upon the said Thomas
Wood, Jr., under the seventy-first section of the act of 1799, and
the fifteenth section of the act of the 14th of July, 1&32, it is- incumbent upon him to prdve to the jury the actual cost of the
twenity-two pieces of cloth- in the invoices and entries stated to
have been purchased'by him; and that the value of the goods at
the times or dates of the seizure, or of any other subsequent times
are not material, except so far as they may assist or tend to enable
the jury to ascertain the prices at the respective periods ofpurchase or shipmient.
5. That the burden of' proof being upon the claimant to prove
that the invoices were not made up with intent to defraud the
revenue, it is not sufficient f6r him to rely upon the invoices
themselvep merely as proving their own truth aid fairness.
The case was submitted to the Court by Mr. Meredith and Mr.
Crittenden, for the plainitiff in error, and Mr. Legar6, the attorney-general, and Mr. Cadwalader, for the United States; the
counsel for the parties furnished printed arguments-to the Court.
The counsel of the plaintiff in error contended upon the-demurrers to the first three pleas:
1. That there is no right of seizure after goods have been
passed through the-custom-hqse, according to all the requisitions
of the revenue laws-they have been examined, inspected, and
appraised-the duties ascertained and paid, and the goods-themselves delivered to the owner Qr importer, or his agent; and that
they can never afterwards be pursuied as forfeited for any alleged
or pretended fraud or imposition upon the custom-house: that
the right in such cases t& claim and seize as a forfeiture, was

limited to the transitof the goods throigh the custom-house, and

-

352

SUPREME COURT.
,[Wood v. The United Stat.

while they were under the hands of its offiders, for' their inspection, 'examination,,and appraisement.
To pursue and seize them afterwards, when -they have been
introduced into, the cdmmunity and int6 the market, with all the
authentic sanctions of the bustom-house, is a very different thing.
If Congress had intended such a course, it would have declared
itself explicitly, and prescribed, if not some restraint, -at'least
some form and modefor the exercise of 'a'power so tremendous
and fearful. And as there is no such legislation in any of the
acts of Congiess, it cannot be held that g6ods thus situated are
liable to seizure or forfeiture.
2. That, evenif there be a right of seizure under such circumstances, the seizure actually made must be a good subsisting
seizure when ihe information is filed.
3. That the eizure made in this case was defective and iregular
On, the first exception, the plaintiff in error contended that the
evidence offered by the United States of importations made' bythe claimant, subsequent to the importations charged by the information to have been fraudulent, was inadmissible.
On the. second'exceptiod the plaintiff in error contended:
1. That,"assniming upon the evidence that the goods were
entered,at the New York custom-house, and were unladen and
ddlivered'under permits granted by, the collector, who caused
them to be examinbd, and' upon such examination ascertained
and received the dntie6, and delivered the goods to the dtaimant,
who afterwards broke up theoriginal packages, of which said
goods formed a part, and shipped them, to Baltimore, for sale,.
where they were -seized. The jry ought to have been instructed, that if-they believed such'evidenc,'ta find a verdict for
the claimant on the third count ot,the information; and that the
Court erred.ixi" refusing to gire such instruction.
2. That-the third count of Ithe informiation cannot-be supported,
because the sixty-sixth sectlin. of the duty act 4f March, 1799, is
repealed, and that the.Coiirt ought so to have instructed the jury.
3. That, assunihg 'upon the evidence that the collector of New
York caused at least one- package -out of every invoice, and one
package at least out of every twenty packages of each invoice
of goods mentioned in the sixthand seventh counts of the infor-

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

353

[Wood v. The United State&)

mation to be opened and examined, and that said packages were,before .uch examination, designated by the collector on. the
several invoices.in which they were respectivnlyincltdea; that,
updn suqlh' opening and examination, the goods were found to
correspond with the invoices, and not to be falsely charged; -that.
after said examination the duties were ascertained- and paid, -and
the goods delivered to the'claimant, who sent them to his agents
at Baltimore for sale, where thp seizure was made; that the jury
ought to. have. been instructed, provided they believed 'said.evideurce, that the United States were not entitled to recover 'under
the sixth count, so far as the same charges the invqices to haye
been foubd to be made up with intent,.by a false valuation or
extension, to evade or defraud the revenue,;, nor under the seventh
count; and that the Court erred in refusing so to instfuct the jury.
4. That there was no evidence to support the, eighth count in
the information, nor the sixth.count, so. far as th6 same charges
the packages to have been made up, with a fraudulent intent.
5. That the fourth sectipn of the'act of Congress of the 28th.
May, 18so, is repealed, and conseqfiently'the sixth, sevxenth, and
eighth counts in the information cannot be: supported; aifd that
the Court ought to have so instructed the jury.
6. That there was no evidende in the cause to support the
ninth count' of the information, 'and that the Oourt erred-in ;not
so instructing the jury.
For the United States, the. attorney-general aId"-Mr. Cadwafader contended, that the leading idea of all the arguments on
the other side, that the United States are cotzcluded by the pasAing
of the goods through the custom-house, after an appraisement,
and on payment of duties according to that appraisement; in all
cases whatsoever, and even of admitted fraud; that the idea
was that the United States had.adopted a sort of Spartan system
of permitting fraud, so it be cleverly enough executed to ekcape
detection at the custom-house, no matter how cleai'ly it may be
e~xposed afterwards.
But there .wa6, happily, no plausibility in the argumrnent, that
because there are collectors, appraisers, and inspectors, perpetually on the whtch to detect any violation -of the *revenue-]aw,
therefore -yo other detection of it can be of anj avail;" that. be2 G2
45
-

s54

SUPREIME COURT.
tWood v. The United Stite.]

cause so many statutes have been passed with a view, in the
ordinary course of things, to insure the payment of the public
dues, therefore a fraud, which at common law; and in all law,
taints and vitiatesand nullifies every civil proceeding, is permitted,
because it has been perpetrated by some extraordinary contrivance, and in.spite of those statutes.
,As to the information, it was argued that the five counts up-n
-which the judgment .of forfeiture was entered were all good and
suffi'ent. But, if this were otherwise, the judgment world be
affirmed, if any one. count of the information were valid. The
proceeding is, in rem, for the enforcement of a forfeiture, and if
one cause of forfeiture is effectual, many cannot be more effectual
for the purpose. A condemnation upon one cause of forfeiture is
'an adjudication that the property is in the United States and is
the consummation and -merger of the entire prosecution. Under
cumulative -orfeitures, however numerous, more cannot be done
than under a single-'forfeiture,'to ascertain that the claimant's
original property is -divested and is become the property of the
United States. In Locke v. The United States, 7 Cranch, 344,
the condemnation was sustained upon one of many counits, without inquiry as to the 'sufficiency of the others, to which objections
had been made.
The rest of the argument on behalf of the United States, embraced the following heads:
1. The*sixty-sixth section of the act of 1799 is in force, and is
the only act in, f6rce under which individual pieces of goods,
falsely invoiced, are made liable to forfeiture, without reference
to the manner of making up the entire invoice or package containing them; and is, also, the only act under which the United
States can proceed in a personal action, torecover the value of
the things forfeited, or such portion of them as cannot be found
and seized.
11. The fourth section of the act of 1830 is in force for two purposes, notwithstanding the repealing clause of the fourteenth
section of the act of 1832.
1. Where an invoice is made up with intent to defraud the
revenue, not merely the pieces falsely invoiced, but the whole invoice is forfeited.
2. Where a package, mentioned in the invoice, is made up

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

355,

[W9od'P. The United State.].

with an evasive or fraudulent intent, in respect to the invoice, the
whole packager isforfeited.
IL Under these acts, the enforcement of the, forfeiture is not
dependent, upon the manner in which the goods may happen to
have been seized, or the reasons for-the seizure which may happen to have been known, or to bave been assigned at ihe time of
making it. The filing of an information by the United States is an
adoption by theri of the seizure, and refers the prosecution not to
the seizure, but to the antecedent causes of forfeiture alleged in
the information. ]fattes that involve the regularity or, method
of the seizure cannot be put in issue,' even under a plea in abate-*
ment, which would be the. only appropriate method of raising
the questions'; much less can they be pleaded in bar, or together
with plets in bar.
IV. The power of the 'United States to enforce a forfeiture
incurred under these acts, is not. dependent upon the acts or
omissions of the appraisers and othet officers, of the customs,
who are required to ascertain or liquidate and- receive the
pecuniary amount of duties for which the omporter and goods
are liable.
The two subjects of forfeiture and pecuniar liability for duties
are, generally speaking, subjects of distinct independent statutory
provisions; and different parts of the statutes are to be considered
distribuivcly, with reference to each respectively.
When a forfeiture has been incurred by reason of a fraud,
not even the Secretary of the Treasury and collector of the
customs are authorized to remit or mitigate it, much less the
appraisers and other subordinate officers of the collection of the
revenue.
V. The seventy-first sectioh of the act of 1799 having enacted
that, in informations wheie any sdizure shall be made purquant
to that act, the burden of proof shall lie upon the claimant where
probable cause'for the prosecution has been-shown to the Court,
the probable cause for the prosecution required to be shown, is
referrable to evidence pertinent to the issues upon causes of forfeiture set forth in the information, and not merely to the original
grounds of seizure by officers of the revenue before -information
filed, as contended for on behalf of-the plaintiff in error.

356

SUPREME COURT.
[Woqody. The United State&]

VI. Probable cause for the prosecution wasshown on-the part
of the United States-.
1. By proof of the gross disproportion, of the cost staLed in the
invoices and the actual market price of the period of the pretended purchases.
,2. By proof of the insertion as to both cloths and cassimeres,
of'a pretended discount or allowan e for measure, which, if not
fictitious as to both cloths and cassimeres, must have been so as
to cassimeres.
3. By the evidence of which the admissibility is involved in the
next point; and under the bill of exceptions to testimony.
VII. As d part of the necessary circumstantial evidence admitted in all cases- of fraud, it was competent to prove that all the
importations of this claiMant, including those before, as well as
those since the importations in questioni were attended with the
same circumstances of a pretended discount or deduction for
ineasure, and-that on.all of those which have been entered since
the.commencem'ent of the 'present proceedings, he has acquiesced
without appeal or objection in a liquidation of the duties on the
footing of disallowing this deduction, and of a still further addition, by the appraisements,, to the cost of prices stated- in'the
invoices.
This evidence was competent for several reasons:
1. A comparison of the invoices with those in question, shows
that the goods are all, or nearly all, from the same parties who
made out the invoices of the goods in question, and the packages
'are marked so as to idicatethat they are part of a connected
series of importations.
2. To prove the fictitjous character of the series of importations
of which these were a part.
3. 'To disprove the possibility of their having been a.casual or
fortuitous discount or allowance in the particular case in question,
and to indicate the intent of the parties on both sides of the water,
to make out the invoices fictitiously and evasively in respect to
the revenue
4. To prove a systematic combination for this purpose, between
the foreign exporter or party making out the invoices,'and the
importer who entered the goods upon them.

JANUARY -TERM, 1942.

957

[Wood t. The Unitea Statea]
.5. To disprove the reality of. the discount by the acquiescence
of the plaintiff in error in its rejection in subsequeit cases.

Mr. Justice SToR-delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error from the judgment of the Circuit Court
of the district of Maryland, affirming, pro formg, a jhidgment of
the District Court of the same district..
The original suit was a libel of-information, in rem, upon a seizure, upon land, in the said district, of twenty pieces of cloths
imported into the United States, and alleged to be forfeited. The
libel contained a number of counts; but thdt alone which is necessary to be here stated, is the count founded upon the sixty-sixth
section of the revenue collection act of 1799, chapter 128, which
declares, " That if any good, wares, or merchandise, of which
entry shall have been made in the office of a' collector; shall not
be invoiced according to the actual cost thereof 'at the place of
exportation, with design to evade the diuties thereupon, or any
part thereof, all such goodswares, and merchandlse, or the value
thereof, to be recovered of the person making the entry, shall be
forfeited." The count stated that the goods in controversy were
not invoiced according to the actual cost thereof at ths place of
exportation, with design to evade the duties. Various pleas were
put in, to some of which. there were demurrers,. and upon others
issue was joined, upon which a trial-wa, had by a jury. The
jury found a verdict for the United States. 'The claimant (as
well as the United States) prayed certain instructions to the jury
which were refued,and the Court gave certain instructions to
which the claimant excepted; and the cause came before the Circuit Court upon the bill of exceptions, filed by the claimant, as
well to the refusal as to the instructions of the Court.. At the
trial it appeared that the goods in question had been originally
imported into the port of New York, and were there duly entered
and landed, and the duties paid lipon, the invoices produced by
the claimant at the custom-house. They were afterwards .transmitted to Baltimore, and there seized' in the stores of certain persons having the custody thereof for the claimant, under a search.
warrant of 9 magistrate, procured for that purpose. The validity
of the original seizure is contested in some of the pleadings: and

-

358.

SUPREME COURT.
[Wood v. The United Stat]

this seems to'have been insisted upon -before- the jury as one of
the grounds of defence.
-Atthe trial, to establish the fraud in the invoices, beside other
exdence, the. counsel for the United States offered in evidence
sundry other invoices of cloths and cassimeres, twenty-nine in
number imported into the port of New York by the complainant,
or consigned to him, for the purpose, of showing, the fraudulent
intention of tb4e claimant in those importations, as well as in the
present. An objection was taken to the admissibility of this evidence, which was overruled by the Court; and the evidence was
admitted: and this constitutes one of the exceptions in the cause.
The District Jiidg , after the -whole evidence was gone through,
gave the following instructions to the jury, which involve the
whole merits of the controversy:
1. That the issues formed, and which the jury are sworn to try,
involve no questioi except upon the causes of forfeiture alleged
in the information and traversed, and therefore no question
relating to the mere 'seizuire of the goods is in issue or material
uder the pleadings in this cause.
2. If the jury shall find from the evidence in the cause, that the
invoices of the goods in question were made up with intent, by a
false valuation to evade or defraud the revenue, the plaintiffs are
entitled to recover, although the jury should also find from the
evidence that.the said'goods have been passed through the custom-house at New York, by the collector thereof, and the duties
calculated by him on said invoices shalhave been paid or secured
to be paid, and the said goods delivered by said collector to the
importer.
2. That there has been shown on the part of the United States,
probable cause for the present prosecution under the third count,
and the sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth counts in the information, and that the buidIn of proof lies under the seventy-first section of the act of the 2d of March, 1799, upon Thomas Wood,
Jr., the claimant, and that it is incumbent upon him to prove to
the jury that the charges in the said five counts are untrue; that
is, to prove that the goods in question were invoiced according to
their actual cost at the port of exportation, and that the invoices
and packages were not made up with intent to evade or defraud
the revenue.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

359

(Wood v. The United States.]
4. That the burden of proof being upon the said Thomas
Wood, Jr., under the seventy-first section of the act of 1199, and
the fifteenth section-of the act of the 14th of July, 1832, it is incumbent upon him to prove to the jury the actual cost of the
twenty-two pieces of cloth in the invoices and.entries stated to
have been purchased by him, and that the value of the goods at
the times or dates of the seizure or of any other subsequent times
are not material, except so far as they may assist or tend to enable
the jury to ascertain the prices at the respective periods of purchase or shipment.
5. That the burden of proof being upon the claimant to prove
that the invoices were not made up with intent to defraud the
revenue, it is not sufficient for -him to rely upon the invoices
themselves merely as proving their own trthand fairness.
In respect to the point made at the bar, as to the validity of the,
original seizure, or of the causes thereof, we are of opinion that
the first instruction of the District Judge Fas entirely correct. It
is of no consequence, whatsoeve, what were the original grounds
of the seizure, whether they were well founded or not, if in point
of fact the goods are by law subjected to forfeiture; for the
United States are not bound down by the acts of the seizors to
the causes which influenced them in making the 'seizure, nor by
any irregularity on their part in conducting it, if in point of fact
the seizure can now be maintained as founded upon an actual
forfeiture thereof at the time of the seizure; and therefore it was
rightly held by the judge, that no question arose upon the issues
which the jury were to try, except upon the causes of forfeiture
alleged in the information.
The remarks just made constitute an answer to -the argument
upon the demurrers to the two first pleas of the claimant; for,
as has been already suggested, if a seizure, has been actually
made, and is a continuing seizure; it is no bar -to proceedings
thereon that the cause of forfeiture relied on is not the same upon
which the seizure was originally made. It is sufficient' for the
United States that it adopts the seizure and now proceeds foi a
good cause df forfeiture, although utterly unknown to the original
seizors.
Passing from this, the next point presented for consideration. is,
whether there was an error in the admission of the evidence of

360

- SUPREME COURT.
[Wood v.Th "U'e Stes,]

-

-fraud deducible from the other invoices offered in the case. - We
a~eof opinion that there was none. The question was one of
fraudulent intent or not; and upon questions of that sort, where
the intent of the part is matter in issue, it has always been
,deemed: allowable, as well in criminal as 'in civil ease , to in;roduce evidence of other acts and doings of the paty'of a kindred
character, in order to illustrate or establish his intent, or motive
in' the particular act, directly in judgment. 'Indeed, in no other.
way would it be praticable, ki many cases, to establish such intent
or motive; for the single act taken by itself may not be decisive
either -way; but when taken in connection with others of the like
character and hature, the intent and motive maybe demonstrated
almost'with a conclusivecertainty. The treatise on evidence byMr. Phillipps and Mr. Starkie contain many illustrations to this
effect., See Starkie'on Evidence, vol. 1, p. 64, vol. 2, p. 220,221,
second London edit., 1833; Phillipps on Evidence, by Cowen,
vol. 1, ch. 7, s; 7, p. 179,180, vol. 2. p; 452, note 333, p. 465, note
352,"edit. 1839.
They constitute exceptions to the general rule, excluding -evidence not dirbctly cbmprehended within the issue; or rather, perhaps, it may with more certainty be said, the exception is necessarily imbodied in the very-substance of the rule: for whatever
does legally conduce to establish the points in issue is necessarily
embraced in it, and therefore a proper subject of-proof; whether
it be' direct, or 6uly presumptive. This doctrine was held in a
most solemn manner in the -case of the lKing v.Wylee, 4 Bos. and
Pull. 92, where upon an indictment for 'disposing and putting
aw ay a forged bank note, knowing it to be forged, evidence was
admitted of other forged notes having been uttered by the ptisoner, in order to prove his knowledge of'the forgery. The same
doctrine has been held in cases of the uttering of bad money and
spurious notes; and also in eases of conspiracy. The same doctrine was affirmed and acted upon by this Court in the case of
the Unit4d States v. Wood, 14 Peters' Rep. 43), in the case of a
prosecutron for perjury.
Cases of fraud present a still more stringent necessity for the
application of the same principle; for fraud being essentially a
matter of motive and intention, is often deducible only from
a great variety of circumstances, no one of which is absolutely

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

361

[Wooa v. The United States.)

decisive; but.4l1 combined, together. may become almost irresistible as to the true nature and character ok the. transaction in
controversy. The case of Irving v.Motley, 7 Bing. Rep. 5,43,
turnee upon this vbry point. There theaction was trover to
recoverbacli goods which had been purchased by an agent for
his principal by means of a fraud. In order to establish the
plaintiff's case, it became necessary to show that other purchases
had been made by the same agent for the same priicipail under
circumstances strongly presumptive of a like, fraud:; no douibt
was dntertained by the Court of the admissibility ofthe evidence;
and the main point urged at the, bar was that the agent should
himself have been called to establish- the purchses, but. this
objection was overruled, and the jury, haying found a verdiet for
the plaintiff, the Court gave judgment in his fafour..
Indeed, it is admitted by.the counsel for- the plaintiff in 'error
in the cdse before us, that it is a general .principle of law that
whenever a fraudulent intention is to. be established, collateral
facts tending to sho*w such intention are admissible proof3 but
the objections taken are, first, that when the proof'was offered
no suitable fonimdation had been laid for its .admission, and that
the cause was launched with this proof; and secondly, that the
proof related to importations after, as well as before ihe*particular
importation in question. We do not think either of these objections maintainable. The fraud being to be madd out intevidence,
the order in which the proof should be brought to establish it,
was rather a matter in the discretion of the Court, than of strict
right in the parties. It is impossible to lay-down any universal
rule upon such a subject. Much must depend upon the posturP
and circumstances of the particular case; and dt all events, if the'
proof be pertinent and competent, the admission of it cannot be
matter of error. The other objection has as little foundation:
for fraud in the first impprtation may be as fairly deducible from
other subsequent firudulent importations by. the same party, as
fraud would be in the last importation tom prior fraudulent, im;.
portations. In each'case the quo animo is in question, and: the
presumption of fraudulent intention may equalI 'arise aid equally
prevail.
The second instruction of the Court is, in effect, that if the
invoices of the goods now in question were fraudulently made,
VOL. XVI.-2 H
46

SUPREME COURT.
[Wood v. The Unitel States.1

by a false valuation to evade or defraud the revenile, the fact
that they had been entered and the duties paid or secured at the
custom-houst at New York, upon those invoices, was no bar to
the present information. This. instruction was certainly c6rxect,
if the sixty-sixth section of the revenue collection act of 1799.
ch. 128, now remains in full force and unrepealed: for it can
never be permitted that a party who perpetrates a fraud upon
the custom-house, and thereby enters ins goods upon false invoices and false valuations, and gets a regular delivery thereof
upon the mere payment of such duties as such false invoices and
false valuations require, can avail himself of that very fraud to
defeat' the purposes of justice. It is but at aggravation of
his guilt that he has practised imposition upon the public officers,
as well as perpetrated such a deliberate fraud. The language
of the sixty-sixth section completely covers such a case. It supposes an entry at the custom-house upon false invoices with intent
to evade the payment of the proper duties, and the forfeiture
attaches immediately upon such an entry upon such invoices with
such intent. The success of the fraud in evading the vigilance
of the public officers, so that it is not discovered until after the
goods have passed from their custody, does not purge away the
forfeiture; although it may render the detection of the offence
more difficult and more uncertain. The whole argument turns
upon this, that if the custom-house officers have not pursued the
steps authorized by law to be pursued by them, by directing an
appraisement of the goods in cases where they have a suspicion
of illegality, or fraud, or no invoices are produced, but their suspicions are lulled to rest; the goods are untainted by the forfeiture
the moment they pass from the custom-house. We cannot admit
that such an interpretation of the objects or language of the sixtysixth section is either sound or satisfactory. The same reasoning
governs the ruling of the Court, upon the demurrer to the third
plea.
The question then arises whether the sixty-sixth section of the
act of 1799, ch. 128, hls been repealed, or whether it remains in
full force. That it has not been expressly or by direct terms repealed is admitted; and the question resolves itself into the more
narrow inquiry, whether it has been repealed by necessary implication. We say by necessary implication, for it is not suffi-

JANUARY TE4RM, 1842.

363

[Wood v. The United States.]

cient to establish that subsequent laws cover some or even all ot
the cases provided for by it; for they may be merely affirmative,
or cumulative, or auxiliary. But there must be a positive repug-'
riancyr between the provisions of the new laws, -;nd those of
the old; and even then the old law is repealed. by implication
only pro tanto, to the extent of the repugnancy. And it may
be added, that in the interpretation of- all laws for the collection of revenue, whose provisions are often very complicated and
numerous to guard against frauds by importers, It would be a
strong ground to assert that.the main provisions of any such laws
sedulously introduced to meet the case of a palpable fraud,
should be deemqd repealed, merely because. in subsequent laws
other powers and authorities are given to the custom-house officers, and other modes of proceeding are :llaw ed to be had by
them before. the goods have passed from .their custody, in order
to ascertain whether there has' been any fra-Ld attempted upon
the government. The more natural, if hot' the necessary inference in all such cases is, that the legislature intend the new laws
to be auxiliary tQ and in aij of the purposes of the old law; even
when some of the cases provided for ma 7 equally be within the
reach of each. There certainly, under such circumstances, ought
to be a manifest and total repugnancy in the provisions to lead to
the conclusion -that the latter laws abrogated, and.were designed
to abrogate the former.
Down to the. act of the 28th of-May, 1830, ch. 147, it does not
appear to us that any act of Congress whatsoever has been cited
at the argument which can, upon a reasonable construction, be
deemed to repeal the sixty-sixth section of the act of 1799. The
act of 1830, in the fourth section, provides that the collectors of
the customs shall cause at least one package out of every invoice,
and one package at least out of every twenty packages of each
invoice, and a greater number, should he deem it- necessary, of
goods inported, to be opened and examined; "and if the same be
not found to correspond with the invoice, or to be falsely charged
in such invoice, the collector shall order, forthwith, all the goods
contained in the same entry to be inspected;, afid if such goods
be subject to an ad valorem duty, the same shall be appraised;
and if any package shall be found to c6ntain any article not described in the invoice, or if such package or invoice be made up

364

SUPREME COURT.
[Woq4v. The United States.]

with intent, by a false valuation or extension, or otherwise, to evade
or defraud the revenue, the same shall be forfeited." The section
then proceeds to repeal the thirteenth section of the act of the 1st of
March, 1823, dh. -149; without saying one word as to any repeal
of any section of the act of 1799, ch. 128. Now, if here the rule
be properly applicable, that "Expressio unius est exclusio alterius,"
the presumption of any repeal by implication of the sixty-sixth
section of the act of 1799, would seem to be completely repelled.
Besides, the fourth section of the act of 1830, is not pointed at
the same.class of cases as the sixty-sixth section of the act of 1799.
It obviously and naturally, -in its whole provisions, applies solely
to cases where the packages have been opened and examined by
order of the collector, and upon such examination if any article is
found not contained in the invoice, or the package or invoice is
found to.be made up with an, intent by a false valuation, or extension, or otherwise, to evade or defraud the revenue, and then
the same are declared to be forfeited. It would be a strong doctrine to affirm that where no such examination or detection had
taken place at the custom-house, but the same had passed from
the public custody unopened, the forfeiture under this provision
did apply, or was designed to apply. The fourteenth section of
the act of the 14th of July, 1832, ch. 224, has in some measure
qualified and mitigated the effect of the fourth section of the act
of 1SSo; by providing, that whenever upon opening and examination of any package or packages of imported goods; composed
wholly or in part of wool or cotton, (under which predicament
the present goods fall) the goods shall be found not to correspond
with the entry thereof at the custom-house, and if any package
shall be found to contain any article not entered, such article shall
be forfeited; or if the packages shall be made up with intent to
evade or defraud the revenue, the package shall be forfeited; and
so much of the fourth section of the act of 1830, as prescribes a
forfeiture of goods foundi not to correspond with the invoice
thereof, is thereby expressly repealed.
In truth, however, there is not the slightest repugnancy
between these sections of the act'of 1830 and 1&32, and the sixtysixth section of the act of 1799. The former apply only to cases
where there has been an opening and examination of the packages irported, before they have passbd from the custody of the

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

365

[Wood v. The United States.]

custom-house; and in the course of such examination, the fraudulent intent in the making up of the package or invoice has been
detected; and, thereupon, it declares the same to be forfeited.
Now, tme six.ty-sixth, section of the- act of 1799, may cover the
same cases, but the forfeiture is the same; and, therefore, the
provisions in such a case may well be deemed merely cumulative,
and auxiliary to each other. But the sixty-sixth section isnot
confined to such cases; on the contrary, it covers all cases where
the goods have been entered, and have passed from the customhouse without any examination or detection of the false invoice;s:
it is, therefore , much more broad in its reach.. To enforce a forfeiture under the sections of the acts of 1830 and 1832, it would
be necessary to allege, in th information or libel, all the special
circumstances of the examination and detection'-of the fraud,
under the authority of the collector; -for they constitute a part of
the res gesta, to which the forfeiture is attached. But under
the-sixty-sixth section no such allegations would be necessary or
proper, as the forfeiture immediately attaches to every entry of
goods falsely and fraudulently invoiced; without any ieference.
whatever to the mode, or the circumstances under, or by which,
it is ascertained.
Besides, thp sixty-sixth section not only provides for a forfeiture of the goods, but in the alternative, for a forfeiture of the
value theregf, to be recovered of the person'making the false
entry. 'No such provision exists in the acts of 1830 or 1832. It
is impossible, therefore, successfully to contend that the sixty-sixth
section is repealed in toto, since, no subsequent act covers all tha
casgs provided fot by it. It is, indeed, not a little singular-that
the argument that it is repealea by implication must found ;- 'self upon the veiy ground that the present case is not covered by the
other acts. It must in effect assert, that the repeal otight to be
implied in all cases where the goods have passed from the ctistomn-house without detection'of the fraud, simply because if they
had been examined, and the fraud detected there, they might, in
that case, and in that ease only, have been'subjected to forfeiture,
which would at Maost only establisli a-repeal pro' tanto.. In our
opinion, there is no just foundation for the argument, under any
aspect. - The provision in the six-tysixth section, is. intefided to
suppress frauds upon the revenue. The other acts are designed
2H 2

366

SUPREME *COURT[Wood v. The United States.]

to be au tiliary to the same important purpose-there is no repugancy between the provisions; and to construe the latter as repeal-ing the former, would be to construe provisions to aid, in the
detection of fraud, in such a manner as to'promote fraud, by cutting down provisions of a far more general and important
character, and essential to the security of the revenue. It seems
to us that no Court of justice is at liberty to adopt such a mode
of interpretation of the revenue laws, unless driven to it, by a
stem and irresistible'necessity.
This reasoning might be expanded by a more minute comparison of the -variousacts of Congress with each other, and of the
partiqular langtLge used in each with reference to this subject.
But, in our judgment, it is wholly unnecessary, because, after all,
the whole question must rest upon the broad grounds already
stated. We think the second instruction given by the District
"udges entirely correct.
The three remaining instructions turn upon the point whether, under the circumstances, the onus probandi as to the
facts stated in those instructions was upon the claimant. Upon
this we do not entertain the slightest doubt. The seventy-first
section of the act of 1799, declares .that, "in actions, suits, or
informations to be brought; where any seizure shall be ma4e
pursuant to this act; if the property be claimed by any person, in
every such case, the onus probandi shall lie upon such claimant;"
and it is afterwards added, "but the onus probandi shall lie on
the claimant only where probable cause is shown for the prosecution, to be judged of by the -Court before whom the prosecution is had,"
Probable cause must, in 1this connection, mean reasonable
ground of presumption that the charge is, or may be, well
founded; and we think, in this case, that there was abundance
of proof not only to justify such a reasonable presumption, but
to give it solid weight; and, in the absence of all countervailing evidence, which was completely within the reach of the
claimant if the invoices were bong fide, to give it a force difficult
to be resisted. Upon the whole, our opinion is, that tjhere is no
error in the judgment of the Circuit Court, affirming the judgment of the District Court, and therefore it will be affirmed by
this Court.

