JANUA&RY TERM, 1842.

BEN=Amm LONG,'PLAINTE P rN ERROR, V. PALMER, SMITH, AND
C1oMPANY, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
'Action for on escape against the sheriff of Madison county, he having received into his
custody as a.prisoner, the defendant in an action in the Circuit Court ofMississippi,
taken under execution, and having suffered and permitted him to escape.
The declaration set out the judgment obtained by the plaintiffs against Scott, the defendant in the Circuit Court, the execution, the arrest of Scott, and .his delivery to
Long'as the sheriff; who received him into his custody under the exoscution, and
detained him until, without leayo or license of the plaintiffi in the execution, and
against theirwill, he suffered and permitted him to escape and go at large, &c., &c.
To this declgration the defendant pleaded, that he does not owe the sum 6f money
demanded in the declaration, "in manner and form as complained against hdm ;"
and the juiy found that the defendnt'Log "doth owe the debt in the declaration*
mentioned, in manner and form as therein alleged," and assess damages for the
detention thereof, at one thousand and siqteen dollars and ninety-six cents: upon
which the Court gave judgment for sii thhusaqd three hundred and fifty.six dollars,
and one thousarj Ad sixten dollars and ,inety-six cents damage, and costs.
The judgment of the dCicuit Cdurt is correct, under the provision of the statute of Mississippi of 7th June, 1822. The jury.were not required in'the action to find spa.
cially that the prisuner escaped with the consent, and through~the negligence of the
sheriff. The plea alleged hat the defendant did not owe the sum of money demanded, "in manner and form as the plaintiff complained against him." This plea
put in is4-e every material avdrment in the declaration. On this issue, on the most
strict and rigid construction, the jury have expressly found all that is required to be
found by the requirements of the act.
If the sheriff suffers or permits a pr.soner to escape, this, both in common parlance,
and legal intendment, is an escape with the consent of the sheriff.
The object of the act is, to make the 'Sheriff responsible for a voluntary or negligent
escape, and that this shall be found by the jury. And if this appears from the record
by express finding, or by the necessary conclusion of the law, it is sufficient.
If any particular practice b prevailed in the State Courts, as to the manner of entering
upon the record the nnding of the jury, it is a mere matter of practice as to the
form of taking and entering the verdict of the juryj and cannot be binding upon
the Courts 'of the United States.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district of Mississippi.
An action of debtwas instituted by the d.efendants in error against
Benjamin Long,' then sheriff in Madison county, in the state of
Mississippi, for the recpveqy of six thousand two hundred and
seventy-seven dollars and costs, the same being the amount of a
F 2

9

66

SUPREME QOURT.
[Long v. Palmer, Smith, and Co.]

judgment obtained by Palmer, Smith, and Company against Thomas S. Scott, at the January term, 1833, of the District Court of
the United States, for the district ef Mississippi, with interest, &c.
The plaintiffs in the District Court averred in the declaration
that they had sued out a capias ad respondendum on the judgment
against Thomas S. Scott, who was arrested by the deputy marshal; and who, having him in custody under the execution, committed him to the custody of Benjamin Long, the sheriff, &c.
That the said Benjamin Long received Scott into his custody,
and afterwards, "without the leave or license and against the
will of the plaintiffs, suffered and permitted the said Scott to
escape and go at large wheresoever he would, out of his custody."
The defendant in the Circuit Court, the case having been transferred to that Court, pleaded "nil debet ;" and the jury found a
verdict for the plaintiff, in the manner and form as alleged by
them;" whereupon judgment was entered for the plaintiffs, according to the verdict.
The defendant sued. out this writ of error to January term,
1839.
The case was argued by Mr. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error;
and by Mr. Henderson for the defendant.
Mr. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, contended that the judgment against Benjamin Long, in the Circuit Court, was erroneous, upon the principles of the common law; and particularly
by the laws of Mississippi.
R4,e said that there were no averments in the declaration
of m.tters which, by the law of Mississippi, relating to actions
for an e§cape, were, by the express provisions of the statute,
required to be found by the jury. The -liability of a sheriff
for an escape, was where the plaintiff had not consen'ted to
the escape of the prisoner, and the negligence of the officer to
make immediate pursuit. The only averment in the declaratior
in this case is, that the sheriff permitted Scott, against the will of
the plaintiff, without leave or license, to escape, and suffered him
to go at large wheresoever he would, out of his custody. The
finding of the jury, should have been upon "the necessary and
required averments; and the verdict should, in compliance with

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

67

[Long v. Palmek, mith, and Co.]

the statute, have found the facts required by the statute to create
the liability of the sheriff. The jury found a general verdict
No implication will be allowed. The statute expressly declares
that the jury shall find the facts..
The action for an escape is the pursuit of a rigid remedy; and
the statute of Mississippi, looking to the hardship of the imposition of liability on the sheriff, has declared that all the facts
necessary to create it shall be expressly found.
Mr. Henderson, for the defendants in error, contended that
the entry of the judgment on the verdict of the jury, did authorize the assertion that the jury had found -all the facts required by
the statute. It was for the defendant below to have brought by
plea before the jury, any of the requisitions of the act of assembly
which .sho'u~d be proved, to make him liable. If an issue had
been tendered on such a plea, these facts would have been
brought into controversy. The entry of a general judgment on
a special verdict is often made, and is lawful and proper.
This is an action of debt, and the provisions of the statute ot
Mississippi do not apply to such actions. If the action had been
on the case for the escape under mesne process, it might have
been necessary to have proved all the requirements of the statute
under proper averments, in the declaration. The language of the
act of Mississippi may authorize this position.
The plaintiffs in this case allege a debt to be due to them for
an escape. The defendants plead. nil debel, that he does not owe
the money, and the jury find that he did owe the same in manner and form, &c. This is sufficient. Cited, 4 Call, 370; 1 How.
64; 3 How. 419; 2 Gallis. 231; 3 Wash. Rep. 17, 558; Peters'
C. C. R. 74; Tidd's Forms, 334; 1 -Archbold's Practice, 205;
1 Mumford, 501; 5 Peters, 190; 1 Mass. "153; Paine's C. C. R.
159; 2 Peters, 16.
Mr. Justice THomrsoz; delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes up on. a writ of error from the Circuit Court
of the United States, for the southern district of Mississippi.
It is an action of debt brought against the defendant fot the
escape of Thomas S. Scott, who had been duly committed to his
custody by the marshal of Mississippi. The declaration sets

SUPREME COURT.
[Long v. Palmer, Smith, and Co.]

out the judgment. obtained by Palmer, Smith, and Co., against
Scott; the issuing th execution thereupon; the arrest of Scott,
and his delivery to the defendant, as sheriff, who received him
into. his custody, by virtue of the ,said execution, and detained
him until afterwards, to wit, on the 10th day of October, 1833,when
without leave or license, and against the will of the said Palmer,
Smith, and Co., he suffered and permitted the said Scott to escape
and go at large, wheresoever he would, out of the custody of him
the said Benjamin Long, so being sheriff, as aforesaid.
To this declaration, the defendant pleaded that he does not owe
the sum of money demanded by the plaintiffs in the declaration,
or any part thereof, in manner and form as the said plaintiffs have
complained againft him. And the issue thereupon joined came
on to be tried by a jury; who upon their oaths say, that the defendant doth owe the debt in the declaration mentioned, in manner and form. as- therein alleged, and-assess the damages for the
detention thereof. at one thousand and sixteen dollars and ninetysix cents.
The question presented upon this writ of error, arises under a
law of the state of Mississippi, concerning escapes, passed the 7th
of June, 1822, (Revised Code, 318;) the third section of which
declares, that no judgment shall be entered against any sheriff or
bther officer, in any suit brought upon the escape of any debtor
in his or their custody, unless the jury who shall try the issue,
shall expressly find that such debtor of prisoner did escape with
the consent or through the negligence of such sheriff or other
officer; or that.sach prisoner might have been retaken, and that
the sheriff 'or other officer neglected to make immediate pursuit.
This-latter branchof the act is not involved in the .present questi6n. The declaration contains no averment of neglect -to make
immediafe pursuit to retake the prisoner.
To this section of the act, which is general, and extends
to all actions for escapes, whether the prisoner is in custody of
the sheiff on mesne -process or on an execution, there is a
proviso which declares, that when 'the sheriff or other officer
shall have taken the body of any debtor in pxecution, and shall
wilfully and negligently suffer such debtor to escape, the party
suing out such execution may have and maintain an action of
debt against the sheriff for the recovery of all such sums of

1ANUARY TERM, 1842:

69

[Long v. Palmer,.Smith, and Co.]

money as are mentioned in the execution, and damages for detaining the same; any law, custom, or ansage to the contrary notwithstanding. So that when the action is for the escape of a
prisoner in execution, the measure of recovery is fi~ted, and not
left open to any mitigating circumstancese This proviso takes
the case of an escape, where the prisoner is in custody on an execution, out of the provisions in the enacting clause. The action
in this case is debt, and comes within the proviso. But the
grounds on which the sheriff is made liable for the 'escape are
substantially the same. In the enacting clause he is made liable
if the escape is with his consent, or through his negligence. And
in'the proviso he is made liable if he wilfully and negligently
suffer the escane. The word "or" must obviouslybe here substituted for "and." Shall wilfully or negligently suffer the escape.
To consent to an escape, is certainly wilfully to suffer it. And
the question which arises upon this record is, whether the case is
brought within the provisions of this act. The action is debt
against the sheriff, and the averment irtthe declaration, on which
his liability for thd escape rests, is, that he, withoit-leave or license
and against the will of the said Palmer, Smith, and Company,
(the plaintiffs in the execution,) suffered and permitted the said
Scott, (the prisoner,) to escape and go at large, out of the custody
of him, the said Benjamin Long, so then being sheriff of the county
of Madison, and the said sum of six thousand three hundr ed and
fifty-six dollars and eighty-three cents, due for said damages and
costs, being then and still wholly unpaid and unsatisfied. The
error complained of in this record is, that the jury have not expressly found, that the prisoner escaped with the consent or
through the negligence of the sheriff. The plea to this declaration, which contains the averment above-mentioned is, that the
defendant does not owe the sum of money demanded in the declaration, in manner and form as the plaintiff has complained
against him. This plea puts in issue every material averment in
the declaration; and the plaintiff was called upon to prove such
averments. It put in issue therefore the inquiry whether
the sheriff suffered and permitted the escape. If he suffered
and permitted the escape, this, both in common parlance and
in legal intendment, was aln escape with the consent of the
sheriff. And the verdict of the jury is that the defendant

SUPREME COURT.
[Long v. Palmer, Smith, and Co.]

doth owe the debt in the declaration mentioned, in manner and
f6rm as therein alleged. The manner and form alleged in the
declaration'is, that he owed it by reason of hs,having permitted
the prisoner to 6scape. So that, upon the most strict and rigid
construction of the act, the jury have expressly found that the
escape was with the permission of the sheriff; which is equivalent
to finding that ft was with his consent according to the requirement of the act. This act.does not point out any particular form
in which the finding of the jury is to be entered upon the records
of the Court. The object of the act is to make the sheriff responsible for h voluntary or negligent escape ,- and that this shall be
found by the jury. And if this appears from the record by express finding,, or by the necessary conclusion of law, it is sufficieit. So that, if the verdict of the jury in this case should be
considered no more than the coinmon form upon the plea of nil
debet, all the averments in the declaration are, in judgment of
law, presumed to have been proved. And if any particular practice'under this statute has prevailed in the State Courts, as to the
manner of entering upon the record the finding of the jury, it is
a mere matter of practice as to the form of taking and entering
the verdict of the jury; and cannot be binding upon the Courts
of the United States. The judgment of the Court below is accordingly affirmed.
This view of the case renders it unnecessary to consider the
motion to dismiss the writ of error. Judgment affirmed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the southern district of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this Court, that
the judgment of, the said Circuit Court, in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of six
per centum per annum.

