JANUARY iTERkM,-1842.

JOnN A. GmsoN AwD KrNcwnlN A. MAarnr, PLANTIiSFs IN
ERROR, V. Bzvti.Y CHEw, DE-ENDANT IN ERROR.
The Circuit Courts of the United States have not cognisance of, any suit to recover

the contents of any prQmissory note or other chose- in action in favour of an assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecut~d in such Court to-recover'the said
contents, if no assignment 'had been made; except in cases of foreigu bills of exchange.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for Mississippi.
An action w" instituted in the Circuit Cotirt of the United
States for thp district of Mississippi, by Beverly Chew, a citizen
of the state of Louisiana, against John A. Gibson and Kinchen
A. Martin, citizens of the state of Louisiana. The action was
brought to recover fhe amount of a promissory note drawn by
John A. Gibson in favour of, and endorsed bKy Kinchen A. Martin, for three thousand five hundred dollari, and endorsed over to
the plaintiff.
The declaration set out the promissory note, the drawer and
endorser of the same being included -in the *same writ, under
the provisions of an act of the legislatur6 of Mississippi; which
had been adopted as a rule of practice in the Circuit Court, by
order of the District Judge holding the Circuit Court.
The defendants appeared to the action, and having demurred
to the plaintiff's declaration, filed the following causes of demurrer.
1. This Court has no jurisdiction, the plaintiff in his declaration being the assignee of Kinchen A. Martin, who is a citizen
of the same state with the maker of the note sued on, as declaration avers.
2. The declaration does not aver defendants to be residents of
the southern district of Mississippi.
The demurrer was overruled, and the defefidants having refused to plead to the merits of the action, judgment was rendered
in favour of the plaintiff. The defendants prosecuted this writ
of error.

SUPREME COURT.
[Gibson and Martin v. Chew.]

The case was argued by Mr. Walker, for the plaintiffs in error
and by Mr. Key, for the defendants.
Mr. Walker,.for plaintiffs in error, stated, that this was a suit
against the drawer and endorser of a promissory note, both being
alleged in the declaration to be citizens of the state of Mississippi.
Then by the eleventh section of the judiciary act of the 24th
September, 1789, no suit could be prosecuted in the Court below
against the maker of the note. It is said a state law authorizes
this proceeding ; but no state law can repeal, or be intended to
repeal an act of Congress limiting ths jurisdiction of the Courts
of the United States. By the act of Congress, the Courts of the
Union are expressly deprived of all jurisdiction in this case; and
such jurisdiction cannot be conferred by a state law, especially in
direct opposition to an act of Congress in full force t nd unrepqaled.
Mr. Key, for the defendant in error.
Mr. Justice WAxhE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This suit was brought in ihe Circuit Court of the United States
for the southern district of Mississippi, by the defendant in error,
is the endorsee of a promissory'note, made in Mississippi, of
which the plaintiff in error, Martin, was the payee, and the
plaintiff, Gibson, the maker ; both maker and payee being citizens
of the state of Mississippi when the note was made.
The jurisdiction of the Court is denied,, and the plea should
have been sustained in the Court below, as the Circuit Courts of
the United States have not cognisance of any suit to recover the
conthnts of any promissory note or other chose in action in favour
of an assignee, unless a suit might have heep prosecuted in 'such
Court to recover the said contents, if no assignment had been made,
exceptin cases of foreign bills of exchange. See the eleventh
section of the act to establish the judicial Courts of the United
States, 1 Story's Laws, -53.
The judgment of the Court below is reversed.

