JANUARY TERM, 1842.

ROBERT MILNOR, JOan THOMpSON, DAVID PVTRIKn, AND LEvi
WOODBURY, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, COMPLAIiANTS
AND APPELLANTS, v. GEORGE W. METz, APPELLEE.
M. was discharged by the insolyent laws of Pennsylvania, after having made, according to the requirements of the law, an assignment of "all his estate, property, and
effects, for the benefit of his creditors." After his d.ischarge, he presented a petition
to Congress for a compensation for extra services performed by him as United States
gusger, before his petition fbr his discharge by'the insolvent law. As guager, he had
received the salary allowed by law; but the services for which compensation was
asked, were performed in addition to those of guager, by reguaging wines, which
had become necessary by an act of Congress reducing the duties charged upon them.
Congress passed an act, giving him a sum of money for those extra services. Held,
that the assignee, under the insolvent laws, was entitled to receive from the Treasury
of the United States, the amount so allowed.
Cited, Comyges v. Vasse, I Peters, 196; The United States v. M'Daniel, 7 Peters, 1;
The United States v. Fillebrown, 7 Peters, 50; Emerson v. Hall, 13 Peters, 409.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the
county of Washington in the district of Columbia.
The appellants, Milnor and Thompson, were, during the years
1836 and 1837, United States guagers for the port of Philadelphia, and as such received the full compensation allowed by law
for that period. The duties having been rendered unusually
laborious during the year, by the. operation of the act of July
4thb, 1836, reducing the duties on wines, under which they were
required to reguage them; they appealed to Congress for extra
compensation, to the amount of their full ordinary fees for these
additional services.
Their memorial to Congress wias presented in January, 183S;
and in May, 1840, an act was passed for their relief, by which
the sum of" two thousand seven hundred and fifty-seven dollars
and twenty-three cents, being the amount of fees due to them for
extra services as guagers in the port of Philadelphia, after the
passage of the act of 4th July, 1836, reducing the duty on wines."
George W Metz made no claim before Congress, as the assigtiee
of Robert Milnor.
In December, 1838, the appellant, Robert Mihior, applied at
T2

222

SUPREME COURT.
[Milnor ot a. v. Metz.]

Philadelphia, for the benefit of the insolvent laws of Pennsylvania; and he was discharged in January, 1839, having executed
the usual assignment for the benefit of his creditors. The appellee, George W. Metz, was duly qualified, -and became the sole
assignee.
* After the act of 1840 had passed, he applied at the Treasury
Department, claiming the amount of the sum allowed by the same
to Robert Milnor, being one-half of the whole sum allowed; the
other portion belonging to John Thompson.
This application was rejected; and this suit was instituted
against the appellants. The Court made a decree in favour of
the appellee; and the appellant, Robert Milnor, prosecuted this
appeal.
The case was argued by Mr. Clement Coxe, for the appellant;
and by Mr. Bradley, for the appellee.
Mr. Coxe contended:
1. That there was no purpose of Milnor to make the dedication
claimed; and that his purpose, either way, is immaterial, as the
insolvent law determines, without reference to it, what shall, and
what shall not be included in the assignment.
2. That the insolvent, at the time of his assignment, had no
such interest in the claim upon Congress as.could pass by that
instrument. S. That Congress had the right to-model their relief at pleasure,
and having granted it to Milnor, and not to his assignee, the latter
is without relief by the present suit.
Although, in the schedule of property annexed to the petition
of Robert Milnor, for the benefit of the insolvent laws of Pennsylvania, a claim on Congress is stated; this does not preclude
the denial of the right of the assignee. It is the assignmtt
which gives the right, if any was given. 3 Petersdorff, 486.
The act of Congress limits the salaries of guagers to fifteen
hundred dollars; and thus it is obvious that Milnor and Thompson had not a scintilla of legal right to further compensation from
the United States. A claim of this kind, being one for'a gratuity,
a benefaction cannot be passed under the assignment. It must be
an actual interest; not an expectancy.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

223

[Milnor et alt v. Metz.]

If the assignee of Milnor had any right, it should have been
presented to Congress. The power of the legislature over the
matter was complete. They have given the sum allowed to
Robert Milnor; and the Circuit Court had no power to alter the
donation.
The Secretary of the Treasury rejected the application of the
assignee, and his decision was conclusive. Cited, Decatur v.
Paulding, Secretary of the Navy, 14 Peters, 497.
Mr. Bradley, for the appellee, insisted that the claim by the
appellee, as assignee of Robert Milnor, to the portion of the sum
allowed by Congress to Robert Milnor, was valid; and that the
claim had passed to the assignee under the assignment. The
appellant claimed from Congress a compensation for extra services performed by him for the United States, before he took the
benefit of the insolvent laws of Pennsylvania, and the claim was
allowed. There was a subsisting equity in favour of the petitioners. It was such a claim, as, although a suit could not be
instituted 'ffor its recovery, in an action by the United States,
against the petitioners, it would have been matter of set-off. The
United States v. Tillotson, 7 Peters, 28; United States v. Ripley, 7 Peters, 26.
The principle of law which may be derived from these cases
is, that if any one shall perform services at the instance or request
of the government of the United States, he is entitled to compensation. The right to compensation' is property belonging to the
party who has done the services, and as such belongs to the creditors of the insolvent.
The principles which are in question in this chse, were settled
by the Court in the case of Comyges v. Vasse, 1 Peters, 193.
It was held in that case, that it was immaterial who presented
the claim. The money recovered belonged to the assignee.
Mr. Coxe denied that any legal claim existed on the United
States for compensation. The salary of the guagers was fixed
by law, and whatever else they obtained was a gratuity. He
cited, 13 Peters, 409, as in all respects sustaining the claims of the
appellant. The decision of the Court in the case of Comyges v.

224

SUPREME COURT.
[Milnor et al. v. Metz.]

Vasse, was giyen on the terms of the Spanish treaty, which fully
authorized the claim of the assignee.
Mr. Justice CAkRox delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question in this cause is, whether a claim on the United
States passed by an assignment made by Milnor, an insolvent,
by force of an act of Pennsylvania, where the insolvent resided,
and where the assignment took place
The application was made to the Court of Common Pleas, of
Philadelphia county, 24th December, 1838. According to the
requirements of the insolvent act, there was presented: "A statement of all the estate, effects, and property of the petitioner,
wheresoever situate, and of whatsoever kind." He says, "Your
petitioner has no property of any kind except the following
claim, viz.:
"-cA claim on the government of the United States for about
three thousand seven hundred and seventy-four dollars and fifty
cents."
Assignees were appointed by the Court, to whom the following
assignment was made.
Know all men by tnese presents, that I, Robert Milnor, the
above named petitioner, have assigned, transferred, and set over,
and by these presents 'do assign, transfer, and set over unto
George W. Metz and Aaron Ross, their heirs and assigns, all my
estate, property, and effects whatsoever, to, for, and upon the
uses, trusts, and purposes designated by the act entitled "An act
relating to insolvent debtors," passed the sixtegnth day of
.A. D. one thousand eight hundied and thirty-six.
Witness my hand and seal, this eleventh day of January, A. D.
1839.
ROBERT MILNOR, [L. s.]

Ross refused to serve, and was discharged by the Court; leaving Metz the sole trustee. On the same day, Milnor was discharged.
On the 2d of May, 1840, Congresspassed an act for .the relief
of Robert Milnor and John Thompson; ordering the secretary of
the treasury to pay to them two thousand seven hundred and
fifty-seven dollars and twenty-three cents: "being the amount

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

225

[Milnor et aL v. Metz.]

of fees equitably due to said M. and T. for extra services rendered by them as gaugers at the port of Philadelphia, after the
passage of the act of the 4th of July, 1836, reducing the duties
on wines, then in custom stores in said port, and commencing
with the provisions of said act."
Several petitions had been presented on the subject; the first
in February, 1838; the claim was pending before Congress when
the assignment was made, and the insolvent discharged. He
claimed the money as- then due from the United States, and the
act of Congress admits the fact. Nevertheless, the answer insists: "4That the remuneration was asked as a boon, and respond:
ent has understood and believes, was advocated, and granted as
a gratuity."
It is admitted that Milnor was entitled, separately, to one-half
of the money ordered to be paid by the act of Congress, and
Thompson to the other half.
Milnor applied to the Treasury for one halt of' ttre money, as
did Metz, the trustee. The department refused to examine the
equities of the tiarties, or look beyond the act of Congress. Metz
filed his bill, enjoining Milnor from receiving the money; and had
a decree for a perpetual injunction.
The case relied on to sustain the assumption that the money
awarded by Congress was a gratuity, is that of Emerson v. Hall,
13 Peters, 409.
It was this: 'Emerson, Chew, and Lorrain libelled a slave ship,
and caused her to be condemned, and claimed half the proceeds
of the ship and cargo, which was awarded to thein below; but
the decree was reversed by this Court, on the ground that Emerson, Chew, and Lorrain, as surveyor, collector, and naval officer,
of the port of New Orleans, had no right as captors: and that
they stood on the footing of an officer who made a military
seizure. Emerson died; and in 1831, Congress passed an act
bestowing on his legal representatives, and on Chew and Lorrain,
the one half of the condemnation money.
Hall, a,. a creditor of Emerson, filed his petition in the Probate
Court at New Orleans, against Byrne, the curator of the heirs
of Emerson, for payment of his debt out of the moneys received
under the act of Congress. The Piobate Court, and the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, on appeal, gave judgment for Hall: and on
29

SUPREME COURT.
[Milnor et al. v. Metz.]

a *vrit of error prosecuted to this Court, the judgment was reversed, on the ground that the act of Congress gave the money
to Emerson's heirs, as a gratuity; because of the meritorious
conduct of their father. Say the Court," He acted under no law,
nor by virtue of any authority; his acts imposed no obligation
either in law or equity, on the government. Had he been sued
for a debt due to it, he could not have set up these services, either
as an equitable or legal set-off." They are declared to be like
those, where an individual, by timely exertion, save:. the public
.property from destruction by fire; or where a pension is given to
heirs for military services of the ancestor.
The services performed by Milnor, were at the instance of the
government, and necessary to execute the act of 1836. But being
a second measurement, no express law or regulation of the Treasury Department fixed the fees; and the demand was rejected by
the accounting officer, because they had no discretion to go beyond
the law, or an express regulation founded on it. The equity of
the claim was free from doubt. The gaugers only received fees
for specific services, actually performed, and could not receive
double compensation; and in this respect the equity was more
prominent than in M'Daniel's Case, 7 Peters, 1. M'Daniel was
a regular clerk in the navy department, and received a salary.
He was ordered by his superiors to perforx, and did perform,
the extra duties of paying, (1) the navy ponsioners; (2) the privateer pensioners; and, (3) to act as agent for navy disbursements. So that all his time may have been devoted to this'extra
service; and none to the regular office duties. of clerk. Because
of his regular salary, the accounting officer refuses to allow
additional compensation. To cover his claim for this, M'Daniel
had retained nine hundred and eighty dollars, and was sued for
it by the United States. The defendant's claim was allowed as
an equitable set-off.
The case of Fillebrown, 7 Peters. 50, is to the same effect.
These cases have been constantly followed, *here services had
been performed at the instance of the government for which by
the strict rules of accounting no credit could be given by the
Treasury.
The ground that the government was the debtor, and the claim
rested on its discretion; or in other words, that it was as uncertain

JANUARY TERM, 1842

227

[Mildor et aL v. Metz.]

as the pleasure of Congress; and until the act of 1840 was
passed, no claim existed against the United States, which could be
judicially recognised as "property or effects," of the insolvent,
we think is decided to the contrary, by this Court, in Comyges v.
Vasse, 1 Peters, 196.
Vasse assigned under the bankrupt law of 1800. He had beefan underwriter on polices of insurance on vessels'seized and condemned by the government of Spain. The owners had abandoned for a total loss, which the insurer had paid; and was the
successor to the rights 'of the assured. The sentences of the
Spanish Prize Courts were conclusive as to the right to the things
condemned; and no claim existed on part of the insurer, that did
not depend onathe discretion and pleasure of the Spanish government. The equity was as remote, to say the least of it, in that
case as in the one before us. By the treaty of 1819,-Spain stipulated with this government to pay five millions in full, discharge
of the unlawful seizures; leaving the United States to distribute
the indemnity. Vasse had awarded to him eight thousand eight
hundred aid forty-six dollars. Comyges was the surviving assignee of the bankrupt. Vasse instituted suit against him, to try
the right to the money. This Court held, that although the illegal
sentences of the Spanish Prize Courts were irreversible, the
party had not lost all right to justice, or claim, upon principles
of international law to remuneration; ihat he had a right both
to the justice of his own and the fureign sovereign; and that
this right passed by the general assignment of the bankrupt.
The treaty in that case, (as the act of Congress in this,) operated
on a pre-existing claim on a government. It follows, if the doctrine of donation did not apply in that case, neither can it in this.
Had a similar claim ox! the part of Miln6r existed against an
individual instead of the government, then there can be no doubt
he could have recovered by suit; or it would have been the subject of set-off; or could have been assigned. So it would have
passed to his administrator in case of death. As the government
vas equally bound to do its debtor justice, in a different mode,
with an individual, we think no sound distinction exists in the
two cases; and, therefore, order the decree to be affirmed.

