JANURY TERM, 1842.

ZXNAS

'ULTON AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. MORGAN
M'AFFEE) DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

The High Court of Errors and Appeals of the state of isissippi, on a writ of error
to the Circuit Court of Washington County, Mississippi, confirmed a judgment
of the Circuit Court, by which a title to land set up on an act of Congress of the
United States, was held valid; thus construing the act of Congress in favour of the
party claiming a right to the land, under the act. The party against whom the decision of the Court of Appeals was given, prosecuted a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the United States. The writ of error was dismissed, the Court having no
jurisdiction.
In order to give the Supreme Court of the United States jurisdiction in such cases, it is
not sufficient that the construction of the act of Congress on the validity of the act
on which the claim was founded, was drawn in question. It must appear, also, that
the decision vkas against the right claimed. TheDower of the Supreme Court is
carefully defined and restricted by the judiciary act of 1789 ; ad it is the duty of
this Court not to transcend the limits uf the juri,diotion conferred upon it.

IN error to the High Court of Errors and Appeals, of the state
of Mississippi.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the Court.
Mr. Coxe, for the defendant, moved to dismiss the writ of error,
o4 the ground that the Court ha&f no jurisdiction .of the case.
The motion was opposed by Mr. Crittenden, for the plaintiffs in
Error.

Mr. Chief Justice TANFY delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is brought up by-writ of error from the High Court
of Appeals of the state of Mississippi. A motion was made at
the last term to dismiss the case, upon the ground that this Court
has not jurisdiction under the twenty-fiftL section of the act of
1789; but the argument upon the. motion was not heard until
about the close of the session, when many other cases were pressing upon the attention of the Court; and it was therefore held
under advisement until the present term.
It appears that an action of ejectment was brought for certain
lands in the state of Mississippi, by Morgan M'Affee, to-which
the present Ilaintiffs in. error appeared as"defendants; and upon
N2

150

SUPREME COURT.
[Fulton et al.
v. M'Affee]

the trial, the verdict and 'judgment were in Ivour of M'Affee
The defendant in that suit theieup6n appeald to the Higl Court
of Appeals, where the judgment of the inferior Court was
afilrmed.
A brief statement will show the points that arose in the State
Court, so far as they are material upon the question of jurisdiction.
By the act of Congress of 'April 20, 1832, enitled "an act for
the relief of Jefferson: College, in the state of Mississippi," the
trustees of the cpllege were authorized to relinquish certain lands
'which had been reserved for the use of the college, and to locate
or enter other lands in lieu of them. The fourth section of this
law authorized the college to transfer the right of location or
entry conferred, by the act; and declared that 'the assignee
should be entitled to receive a certificate from the register of the
proper.land office, which should be "accounted and held as valid
and complete as if a patent had issued therefor."
At the trial of the ejectment, M'Affee, the lessor of the plaintiff,
made title under a certificate dated August 18, 1834, issued'to,
him as assignee of Jefferson College, by virtue of this act of Congress. The certificate was read in evidence, subject to all legal
exceptions; the defendants in the case giving notice at the time,
that, in the progress of the trial, they would offer evidence that
the said certificate was purchased fraudulently by the said
M'Affee. The defendants then, for the -purpose of showing that
no patent had ever issued, by virtue of the said certificate, offered
in evidence six patents, which had been issued on pre-emption
certificates; and which it was adinitted covered the-land embraced
by the certificate of M'Affee. These patents were granted in
1837 and 1838 to different -persons, under whom th6 defendants
claimed the possession. And in order to show that the said cerficate of M'Affee was fraudulently obtained, they offered to
prove that the parties to whom the patents above mentioned issued, were entitled to the benefit of pre-emption in the said land,
under the acts of Congress then in force, before the lessor of the
plaintiff obtained his crtificate: that they were present at the
land office, with money to enter and pay for the same; and offered
to pay, in the pIesence of M'Affee, on the day he obtained his
certificate, and before he obtained it; and that the defendants had

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

151

v. M'Affee.]
[Fulton et al,

acquired possession of the lands afterwards, when these pre-emption claims had been allowed. This testimony was objected to
on me part of the lessor of the plaintiff, and the Court refused to
permit it to go to the jury, -upon the ground that the certificate
could not be impeached at law for fraud.
The defendants then offered to prove by the register of the land
office, that the pre-emption.claims before mentioned were finally
allowed and paid for, and that the patents produced by the defendants, issued upon them; and that the commissioner of the
general land office had rejected MI'Affee's certificate, and refused
to issue a patent upon it. This evidence was also rejected.
The defendants then moved the Court to exclude the said certificate, as evidence of legal title in the lessor of the plaintiff; but
the motion was overruled.
Exceptions were taken to these opinions, and the case was
carried to the High Court of Errors and Appeals; where the
judgment of the inferior Court was affined as'herein before
mentioned.
From this statement of the case, it will appear, that the only
right drawn in question was that claimed by M'Affee under his
certificate. 'If that certificate was a good lbgal title, it was elder
and therefore superior to the legal title derived under the patents
produced by the'defendants.
Th& testimony offered to show that the certificate was fraudulently obtained, was intended to -impeach the title M'Affee
claimed under it; and the objection to its-legal effect was made
for the same purpose. The patents given in evidence by the defendants were not offered for the purpose of showing the legal
title out of the lessor of the plaintiff; nor for the purpose of deriving a-legal tile under them older than the plaintiff's c~rtificate,
by virtue of the act, of June 19, 1834, mentioned in the exception,
or any other law. of the United States; for it is stated in express
terms that they were uffered in order'to show that no patent had
ever 'been issued on M'Affee's certificate. They were intended,
therefore, with the other evidence, to prove that this certificate
was fraudulently and improperly obtained; that its authority had
been denied by the commissioner of the general land office; and
consequently, that it did not confer on the lessor of the plaintiff a
valid legal title, upon which he could recover in ejectment.

SUPREME COURT.
[Fulton A al. v. M'Affe]

These being the only questions raised in the State Cotirt, and
being there decided in favour of the right claimed by M'Affee,
Under the act of 1832, we have no authority to revise the
judgment. In order to give this Court jurisdiction under the
twenty-fifth section of the act of 1789, it is not sufficient that the
construction of the act of Congress, or the validity of the rIght
claimed by M'Affee, was drawn in questicn, and Aecided by the
State Court. It must also appear that the decision was against
the right claimed.
We co not mean to express any opinion as to the rights in contest between the parties. The question before us concerns merely
the jurisdiction of this Court, upon the case as it is now presented;
and it is, therefore, not material to the present inquiry whether
the parol evidence offered by the defendants was or was not properly rejected. For the decision on that point, as well as on the
.question as to the legal effect of the certificate having been in
favour of the right claimed; this Court is hot authorized to examine into the correctness of the judgment given by the State
Court. The power of the Supreme Court, in this respect, is carefully defined and restricted by the act of 1789 ; and it is our duty
not to transcend the limits of the juiisdiction conferred upon it.
The writ of error must, therefore, be dismissed, for want of jurisdiction.

