SUPREME COURT.

JoSHU[A

MAURAN,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,- V.

EDWARD BULLUS,

DEFENDANT IN ERRORConstruction of a letter of guarantee.

In the construction of all written instruments, to ascertain the intention of the parties
is the great object of the Court, an this is especially the case in acting upon guarantees.
Generally, all instruments of suretiship are construed strictly as mere matters of legal
right. The rule is otherwise where they are founded on a valuable consideration.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Rhode Island.
The case, as stated in the opinion of the Court, is as follows:
"The defendant in error and Joshua Mauran, Jr., of the city
of New York, on the 8th of September, 1836, entered into articles
of copartnership in the trade and business of general shipping
merchants, and of buying and selling merchandise on their own
account, and also on commission for the account of others; which
was to continue three years. Mauran agreed to pay into the firm
as capital stock, such sums as- he should be able to realize on
closing the business of merchandising, in which he had been engaged. Bullus agreed to pay a sum of from twenty-eight thousand to thirty thousand dollars in cash.
And it *as stipulated that Mauran should not withdraw from
the concern more than two thousand dollars per annum, nor
Bullus more than three thousand, unless by cbnsent of the copartners in writing. Mauran covenanted that within a reasonable time he would pay the debts owing by him, out of his
private funds; and that on or before the 8th of September instant,
he would give to Bullus satisfactory security for the performance
of this covenant.
On the 9th of September, 1836, the defendant below wrote to
Bullus the following letter: ' Mr. Edward Bullus,-Dear Sir,As you are about to form a connection in the mercantile business
in the city of New York, with my son, Joshua Mauran, Jr.,
under the firm of Mauran and Bullus. And, as the'said J. Mau-

JANUARY 71R

, 1842.

629

[Mauran v. BulIus.]

ran, Jr., having been, and is at this time prosecuting mercantile
business in that city, on his own account: now, therefore, in consideration of the same and at the request of Joshua Mauran, Jr.,
I hereby agree to bear you harmless in regard to the closing up
and settlement of the said Joshua Mauran, Jr.'s former business.
and I hereby guaranty you against any loss or liability you may
sustain from the former business of said Joshua Mauran, Jr., &c.
Signed, Joshua Mauran.The action was brought by Bullus on this guarantee. On the
trial an account against the old concern of Joshua Mauran, Jr.,
with the firm of Mauran and Bullus, was given in-evidence, from
which it appeared that the old concern was indebted to the new,
the sum of five thousand four hundred and three dollars and
seventy-five cents; And it was proved by Joshua Mauran, Jr.,
that the partnership continued until August, 1839, when the firm
failed. That Bullus paid into the partnership stock twenty-nine
thousand six hundred and ninety-five dollars and eighty-six cents,
and that the witness was unable to pay anything. That at the
time of forming the copartnership, his father, the defendant, was
in New York, with whom he conversed relative to the terms of
the partnership. That he showed his father the articles, or the
minutes from which they were drawn, and is satisfied that the
conditions were fully known to him. But the witness stated that
he did not know of his father's having any knowledge that the
firm were to settle and pay the debts owing by the witness.
The witness stated that certain loans were made by the firm to
him, in anticipation of the receipts from the old concern, which
were'charged. After the completion of the articles of copartnership, the witness delivered to his father a paper diawn by the
attorney who drew the articles, for his father's signature, and that
his father did not sign the paper, but after his return to Providence sent the letter of guarantee. Many of the debts of his old
concern, the witness stated, became due before sufficient funds
could be collected from the same to meet them, and these debts
were paid by the firm. That this was a mode of settlement of
the accounts of the old concern, not originally contemplated. His
father often inquired what the deficiency of the old concern would
amount to, but he did not know, to the knowledge of the witness,
that the old concern was indebted to the firm.
VOL. XVI.-2 Y
67

SUPREME COURT.
[Mauran v. BuUusJ

That the firm, on their failure, assigned all their property and
estate to William D. Robinson, including the debts of the old
concern, which amounted to the sum of twelve thousand four
hundred and eighteen dollars and ninety-five cents. These debts
were credited to the stock of Joshua Mauran, Jr., and at the time
they were all, except one of George Bucklin, of about eighteen
hundred dollars, considered bad; and that one had been released,
though the witness considered him bound in honour to pay it.
Various accounts between the firm and Joshua Mauran, junior
and senior, and other persons, were given in evidence.
The defendant introduced his son Suchet Mauran as a witneas
who stated that his father brought with him on his return irom
New York, about the 8th of September, 1836, a bond, binding
him to pay theq debts of Joshua Mauran, Jr. It was under seal,
and the witness read it; and it was, as he believes, in the handwriting of Mr. Boney, of the city of New York, who wrote
the articles of copartnership. That his father would not sign the
bond, but sent the letter of guarantee. The bond remained
among the loose papers of his father for some time, buc after
a diligent search could not be found. That the bond, by its
terms, required his father to pay all the outstanding debts of
Joshua Mauran, Jr., to his creditors, or to whoever might pay
them.
The evidence being closed, the defendant below moved the
Court to give the following instructions:
1. That said letter of guarantee of the defendant, dated the 9th
of September, contained no authority to the said Mauran and
Bullus t6 pay any part of the debts of the said Joshua Mauran,
Jr.'s old concern; that if it authorized any payment of said debts
by any person, it was by the said Edward Bullus alone; and that
the said Edward Bullus could not recover said sum of five thousand four hundred and "three dollars and seventy-five cents, or
any part thereof; inasmuch as he had paid no part thereo4 the
whole having been paid by the said Mauran and Bullus.
Which instruction the Court refused to give, as prayed for; on
the contrary, they instructed the jury thaZ if, from the evidence
submitted to them, they were of opinion that at the time of signing said letter of guarantee, it was understood both by the plaintiff and the defendant, that the plaintiff was to be at liberty to

JANUARY TERM; 1842.

531

[Mauan v. Bulus.]
pay the said debts of the said Joshua Mauran, Jr., either out of
his own private funds or out of the partnership finds of the firm
of Mauran and Bullus; and, in either case, the plaintiff was to
be entitled to indemnity therefor, under and in virtue of the said
letter of guarantee; and iffthey were of opinion froni the facts in
said case, that no funds whatsoever had been paid into the'partnership by the said Mauran, Jr., as a part of the capital stock
thereof, and that all the capital stock had been paid by the said
Bullus; and that he was.and still remained a creditor of the firm
to the full amount of such capital stock; then the plaintiff wa
entitled to recover in the present suit, such sums of money as he
had paid in discharge of the said debts of Mauran, i., either out
of his own privafe funds or out of the fand4 of the said firm of
Mauran and Bullus, for which he had not otherwise.received any
indemnity.
2. And the defendant's counsel prayed the Court further to instruct the. jury that, even if said letter had imposed upon said
defendant any obligation to pay said debts to the said Edward
Bullus, or to the said Mauran and Bullus; ,that the said Mauran
and Bullus by assigning the uncollected debts due to the said
Joshua Mauran, Jr., to the said Robinson, their assignee, and
placing them entirely beyond the control,'or agency and management of the defendant, had discharged the defendant from any
liability ,hich might originally have arisen from said letter of
guarantee.
Which instruction the Court refused to give; but instructed the
jury that, if they should find a verdict for the plaintiff, they ought
to deduct from the amount of the plaintiff's claim in the writ, the
full value of the debts of the said Mauran, Jr., so assigned, and
carge it agdinst the claim of the plaintiff, and render a verdict
in his favour f5r the balance only-, fter such deduction. "
To the instructions xdfused and those given the defendants
excepted."
•
The jury, under the instructions of the Court, found a.verdict
in favour of the- plaintiff for three thousand seven hundred and
sixty-four dollars and twenty-five cents, on which a judgme~it
was entered. The defendant prosecuted this writ of error..
The case was argued by Mr. Whipple, for the plahutiff in

SUPREME COURT.
[Mauran z.,Bullus.]

error; and by Mr. Z. Collins. Lee and Mr. Southard, for the
defendant.
Mr. Whipple contended that the obligation of Joshua Mauran
as contained in his letter of guarantee.of 9th September, 1836, to
Edward Bullus, was confined to an agreement to bear him harmless in regard to the closing up and settlement of the former business-of Joshua Mauran, Jr., and against any loss or liability he
might sustain from the former business of Joshua Mauran, Jr.
It did not contemplate the interference of Joshua Mauran, Jr., in
the closing up of that business, nor that any money of the firm of
Mauran and Bullus should'be taken to pay the former debts of
Joshua Mauran, Jr. If, contrary to this understanding of his
responsibility, Mr. Bullus had acted otherwise, he had no claim
under the letter of guarantee.
That the said letter of guarantee of the 9th of September, contained no authority to Mauran and Bullus, or to Edward Bullus
to pay any part of the debts of Joshua Mauran, Jr.; but that it
was a simple indemnity against any damage which the said Edward Bullus might unavoidably sustain from tb , closing up of the
former business of Joshua Mauran, Jr.
The construction given to the letter by the Court below, imposed upon the defendant a present liability for the whole amount
of the debts of Joshua Mauran, Jr., whatever the amount might
be. Wherelas, the case shows that such a liability was. proposed
to the defendant by Edward Bullus, and rejected by the defendant; this simple indemnity against unavoidable injury being
substituted in its stead.
The letter being addressed to Edward Bullus before the copartnership of Mauran and Bullus, and in contemplation thereof,
cannot be considered as a contract with any other person than
Edward Bullus. That the plaintiff so considers it by bringing
the action w the name of Bullus; and that in order to
support the action, it is necessary to prove a payment and
advance of money by said Bullus individually. Consequently,
that a payment from the funds of Mauran and Bullus, by the
authority of Mauran and Bullus, will not support said action in
the name of Edward Bullus. Story on Partnership, p. 350 to
355; and authorities there cited.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

533

[Mauran v. Bullus.]

Under the second exception, Mr. Whipple contended, that
Mauran and Bullus, by taking the whole property of Joshua
Mauran, Jr., into their possession, and upon their failure'
assigning the uncollected debts and other property to their assignees, instead of placing it under the management of the
defendant, have assumed the ownership of the debts and other
property, and discharged the defendant from any liability, if any
liability ever existed.
Mr. Z. Collins Lee, and Mr. Southard, for the defendants in
error, contended,
1. That the letter of guarantee in question was an absolute
and unequivocal indemnity to Edward Bullus, against all loss
and damage in settling up the old concern of Joshua Mauran, Jr.;
and could be construed in no other way, and must be liberally
interpreted according to the fair intentions of the parties to it.
2. That being a guarantee to Edward Bullus, ihdividually, and
he alone being the party to the contract, he was alone injured,
and therefore the suit was properly brought in his own name, and
not that of the firm-and it made no difference in principle,
whether he paid the advances out of the partnership fund or not.
As in point of fact he had furnished all the capital to the new
firm, and it was therefore his own fimd.
The following cases as to the first point, (Construction of letters
of guarantee) were cited. Mason v. Pritchard, 12 East, 227;
Flagg v. Upham, 10 Pick. 147; Drummond v. Prestman,
12 Wheat. 519; Douglass v. Reynolds, 7 Peters, 117; and
Lee v. Dick, 10 Peters, 490.
On the 2d point: cited Collyer on Partnership, 446, 447; Gow
on Partnership, 123 ;,Story on Partnership, 354. Also the cases
of Alexander v. Barker, 2 Cromp. & Jervis, 133, 138; Robson v.
Drummond, 2 Barn. & Adol. 83, and the counsel referred gene-

rally to the cases named in the note to Story on Partnership, 354.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
Mr. Justice M'Lean after stating the facts, said,
The questions in this case arise on the instructions of the Court;
and they, yery properly,. as we think, refer the jury to the facts
and circumstances under which the guarantee was given. It is
2y2

534

SUPREME COURT.
[Mauran v. Bulus.]

only-by such reference that that instrument can be correctly understood and construied. In the construction of all instruments,
to ascertain the intention of the parties is the great object of the
Court; and this is especially the case in acting upon guarantees.
The guarantee under consideration, in the first place, refers to
the fact that Bullus, to whom it was addressed, was about to form
a connection in the mercantile business in the city of New York,
with the son of guarantor. And from 'the evidence, it appears
that he was well acquainted with the nature and extent of that
-partnership, for' he had read the articles of copartnership, or the
memoranda from which they were driwn. As it appears from
'the statement of Bonney, that the articles were drawn in August,
and placed in the hands of Bullus, who returned them with the
blanks filled and some alterations, there can be little doubt that
the -defendant below read them while at New York. That he
was well- acquainted with the conditions of the partnership ,his
son testifies.
-With this knowledge we come to the next sentence in the
guarantee, which is, "And as the said Joshua Mauran, Jr., h ving
that
been, and is at this time prosecuting mercantile business in,
city, on his own account."
It will be recollected, that in the - articles of copartnership,
Joshua Mauran, Jr., covenanted that he would give to his partner
satisfactory security that he would pay all the debts which he
then owed, and all the responsibilities incurred by him, in carrying on his former business, without dra.ving upon the partnership
fund. Of this covenant, the defendant below not only had full
notice, but it was proved that on his return from New York to
Providence, he took with him a bond drawn by the persoi, who
drew the articles of copartnership, binding him to pay the debts
of his son. This bond he did not execute, but wrote to Bullus
the letter of guarantee.
With these facts in view, after stating the fact that his son had
been in business in New York as above, and that Bullus
was about coinmencing a partnership with him, the defendant
says., " Now, therefore, in consideration of the same, and at the
request of Joshua Mauran, Jr.,.I hereby agree to bear you harmles,in regard to the closing up and settlement of the said Joshua
Mauran, Jr.'s forfher business..And I hereby guaranty you against

JANUARY, tERM, 1842.

535

EMaur~n v. Bullui.J

,any loss you may sustain from the former business of said Joshua
Mauran, Jr."
Now looking at the facts connected with the guarantee, and the
circumstances under which it was given, there would seem to be
no doubt of the understanding and intention of the parties. Bullug
t1aving a capital of nearly thirty thousand dollars, he was unwilling to advance it as the stock of the new firm unless he should
be indemnified. against the debts which had grown out of the
.former business of his partner. And Joshua Mauran, Sen., with.
the view of securing so considerable a capital, and so advantageous a connection in business for his son, was willing to indemnify
Bullus against these debts. And he preferred the guarantee to the
bond which was prepared. The latter would have imposed an
unconditional obligation to pay these debts, whilst the former
only required him to pay Bullus the sum advanced by him in discharge of them.
But it is earnestly contended that as these debts were paid by
the firm, and not.by Bullus only, he cannot maintain an action
in his own name on the guarantee. It is very clear that the firm
could not maintain an action on this instrument. The indemnity
was personal and limited to Bullus.
But the best answer to this argunient is the finding of the jury,
under the instruction of the Court. -They were instructed "that
if, from the evidence, they should find that at the time of signing
the letter of guarantee, it was understood both by the plaintiff
and the defendant, that the plaintiff was to be at liberty to pay
the debts of Joshua Mauran, Jr., either out of his.own private
funds, or. out -of the partnership funds; ,and -in either case the
plaintiff was.to be entitled to indemnify theref~r, under the
letter of guarantee," &c., they should find for the plaintiff. they
did so find,-and consequently the facts hypothetically stated in
the instruction are established. And the only question that 'can
arise on this part of the instruction is, whether the facts found
-were properly submitted to the jury.
Now, out of what fund these debts were to be paid could iot
be a matter of any importance, it would seem, to the guarantor.
*The objection that Bullus cannot recover, because the debts were
paid with thd partnership funds, under the circumstances, it purely
technical. Every dollar of the money thus paid, though used in

SUPLEME COURT.
[Mauran v. Bullus.)

the partnership name, was in fact the money of Bullus. To
meet this technical objection, and carry out the intention of the
parties, we think the instruction was proper. The facts on
which it was'founded did not contradict the written agreement,
nor, in any degree, affect the liability of the party beyond the
clear import of the guarantee.
By the articles of copartnership either partner, with the consent
in writing of the other, mightxwithdraw from the firm any amount
of money. This was known to the guarantor. And also the
fact that the whole capital of Bullus was paid into the firm. If
this be admitted, it followed that any payments made by Bullus
in discharge of the debts, could only be paid out of the firm.
The jury also found in pursuance of the latter part of the same
instruction, that Bullus was a creditor of the firn to the full
amount of its capital stock.
These facts, found by the jury, disembarrass the case from the
technicalities thrown around it by the counsel of the guarantor.
They show that it was the understanding of the guarantor that
Bullus should be indemnified against the previous debts of his
partner, whether he paid them out of the partnership fund or
otherwise.
The construction that the guarantor is only bound to indemnify, in case payment of these debts had been enforced against
Bullus by legal 'measures, is not sustained by the words of the
instrument.
In the first place, he was not and could not be made legally
responsible for these debts. The guarantor then must have
contemplated a-voluntary payment, or at least not a payment by
legal compulsion. The guarantor agrees to bear Bullus "harmless in regard to the closing up and settlement of the said
Joshua Mauran, Jr.'s former business." Here is a strong recognition of an agency by Bullus in the settlement of these debts.
To sustain the credit of the firm it was necessary to pay the debts
in question; and we find that in a very short time after the
firm commenced business, the payments of these debts were
commenced, and such payments were made from time to time
by the firm until near the time of its failure. The moneys received from the debts due to the previous concern were credited
on the books of the firm, and the payments made by it on the

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

537

[Mauran v. BuHus.1
same account were charged. But the mode of keeping the
account by the firm can have no bearing in the case, as the facts
found by the jury obviate'all objections on this ground.
Suppose Bullus had been charged on the books of the firm,
with the moneys paid in discharge of the debts; the objection as
to the partnership interest could not in that case be made. But
the mnoney thus applied would have been no more the -money of
Bullus than that which was paid by the firm. The facts found'
by the jury present the case in its true character, and give a
strong equity to the plaintiff below. Generally, all instruments
of suretiship are construed' strictly, as .mere matters of legal
right. The rule is otherwise where they are founded on a valuable consideration. But in the present case the relationship of
Mauran the partner and the guarantor, connected with the other.
circumstances, constitute as clear a case for indemnity as could
well be imagined. That the debts of Mauran, Jr., were paid by
Bullus or with his assent, in virtue of the guarantee, there is no
reason to doubt. Indeed this fact is substantially fouid by the
jury.
The assignment by the firm of the uncollected debts of Joshua
Mauran, Jr., to Robinson, does not release the guarantor. In
this respect.the instruction of the Court was correct. The jury
were directed if they should find for the plaintiff, to deduct from
the amount thus found the full value of the debts of Joshua
Mauran, Jr., which had been assigned by the firm, and render a
verdict for the balance.
The debts of Mauran, Jr., assigned by the firm were proved to
be bad, with but one exception; and that appears to' have been
deducted by the jury from the sum paid by the firm, in discharge
of those debts.
Upon the whole we are satisfied that substantial justice has
been done between the parties, by the judgment of the Circuit
Court; and we think there is no principle of law arising out of
the instructions which require a reversal of the judgment. It is,
therefore, affirmed.

