JANUARY TERM, 1842.

JonN GORDON, PLAINTIFF IN ERRoR,

V. JAmES LONGEST,

DE-

PENDANT IN ERROR.
An action was instituted in the Circuit Court of Jefferson county, in the state of Kel
tucky, by a citizen of that state, under an act of the legislature of Kentucky, agains
a citizen of the state of Pennsylvania, to recover damages, alleging the same in
the declaration to be one thousand dollars, for having taken on board of the steamboat Guyandotte, commanded by him, a slave belonging to the plaintiff, -from the
shore of Indiana, on the voyage of the steamboat, proceeding up the Ohio river from,
Louisville to Cincinnati. The act of the legislature of Keatucky subjects the master of a steamboat to the penalties created by the law, who shall take on board the
steamboat under his command, a slave from the shore of the Ohio, opposite t6 Kentucky, in the same manner as if he had been taken on board from the shores or
rivers within the state. On entering" his appearance, the defendant claimed to
remove the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Kentucky, he being a citizen of Pennsylvania, and the plaintiff a citizen of Kentucky;and oflrred to comply with the requisitions of the judiciary act of 1789. The Court
refused to allow the removil of the cause; deciding that it did not appear -ts satisfaction that the damages exoeeded five hundred dollars. The case went on to trial,
and the jury gave a verdict for the plaintiff for six hundred and fifty dollirs; and on
a writ of error to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, the judgment of thd Circuit
Court on the verdict was affirmed. Before the Court of Appeals the plaintiff in
error excepted to the jurisdiction of the Court of Jefferson county, and also to the
constitutionality of the law of Kentucky on which the suit was founded. Held,
That the decision of the Court of Appeals was erroneous; and,the judgment of that
Court was reversed.
It has often been decided that the sum in controversy in a suit, is the damages claimed
in the declaration. If the plaintiff shall recover less than ve hundred dollars, it
cannot affect the jurisdiction of the Court; a greater sum having been claimed in
his writ. But in such case, the plainif does not recoyer his costs; and, at the discretion of the Court, he may be adjudged to pay costs.
The damages claimed by the plaintiff in his suit give jurisdiction to the Court; whether
it be an original suit in the Circuit Court of the United States, or brought there by
petition from a State Court.
The judge of the State Court to which an application is made for the removal of a
cause into a Court of the United States, must exercise a legal' discretion as to the
right claimed to remove the cause. The defendant being entitled to a right to have
the cause removed under the law of the United States, on the facts of the case, the
judge of the State Court has no discretion to withhold that right.
The aplication to remove the cause having been made i proper form, and no objection
having been made to thq fct' on which it was founded, it was the duty of the State
Court "to proceed no furthel,in the cause;" and every step subsequently taken in
the exercise of a jurisdiction in the case, whither in the same Court, or in the Court'
of Appeals, was oram non judice.
One great object in the establishment of the Courts of the United States, and regulating

VOL. XVI.-I

13

-SUPREME COURT.

98

[Gordon v. Longest.)
their jurisdiction, was to have a~tribunal in each state, presumed io be free from local
influence; and to which all who were nonresidents or aliens, might resort for legal
redress. And this object would be defeated, if a state judge, in the exercise of his
discretion, may deny to the party'entitled'io it, a removal of the cause.

IN error to the Court of Appdals of the state of KentucK7.
In the Jefferson Circuit Court of the state of' Kentucky, James
Longest, of the state of Kentucky, instituted an action against
John Gordon, to recover the value of a certain slave belonging to
him, which John Gordon, who was commander of the steamboat
Guyandotte, then proceeding from Louisville up the Ohio liver
to Cincinnati, was alleged to have taken on board the Guyandotte
frimn the Indiana shore or side of the Ohio, as a passenger to
Cincinnati.
John Gordon was a citizen of the state of Pennsylvania; and,
proceeding according to .the provisions of the judiciary act of
1789, he claimed before the Circuit Court of Jefferson county, to
remove the'cause to the Circuit Court of the United States, for
the district of Kentucky.
The declaration filed in the case, in the Jefferson Circuit Cbu~t,
claimed damages in one thousand dollars.
The Circuit Court d6cided that it did not appear that the amount
in controversr in the suit exceeded five hundred dollars, exclusive
.- of costs; and refused to allow the removal of the cause to the
Circuit Court of-the United States.
The case came o4 for trial-on the 21st day of March, 1838;
and a jury gave a verdict for the plaintiff, for six hundred and
fifty dollars, 'on which judgment was entered for the plaintiff.
On the trial, the defendant asked the Court to'instruct the

jury,
1. That so much of the act entitled "an act to amend an act to
prevent masters of vessels and others from employing and removing persons of col6ur from this state, approved February 12th,
1828,' as is in the following words, to wit: "Be it furtther enacted
that the liabilities under the said act shall accrue whenever the
person of colour shall be taken on-board any steam vessel, from
the shore of the Ohio river opposite the state, to the same extent
as if they were taken on board from the shores or rivers within
the state," is not within the constitutional power of the legislature

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

99

[Gordon v. Longest.]

of the state of Kentucky, under the Qonstitution of the United
States."
2. That under the Constitution and laws of the United States,
a steamboat-captain navigating the Ohio riveris not guilty of a
breach of duty, by taking persons of colour from the Indiana
shore, and transporting them in their steamboats; provided such
captain shall, in good faith, believe such persons of colour are free;
and that the act of the Kentucky legislature, if to the contrary, is
unconstitutional and void.
3. If the jury believe from the evidence, that the negro was
taken from the Indiana shore by the plaintiff in good fith, believing him to be free, and that he was taken by the plaintiff as a
passenger in the navigation of his boat; that in such case the jury
ought to find for the defendant the issue in the case.
4. That although persons of colour in Kentucky are in law
presumed-to be slaves, thei are in Indiana presumed, prima facie,
to be free; and if the plaintiff took the slave from ,the. Indiana
shore in good faith, and under the belief that he was free, and
that he was taken by the defendant as a passenger, in the navigation of the said boat; that in such case the jury ought to find
for the defendant.
5. That if the defendant was 'a citizen of the state of Ohib,
residing there, and the steamboat Guyandotte, of which lie
was commander, did belong td the port of Cincinnxati in said
state; and the negro Jim did. come on board. said boat at the
Indiana shore of the Ohio river;, and the aid Gordon acted
ir-good faith, and did not know that the said negro Jim was a
slave, that then he is not liable to pay .damages to the plaintiff,
for having permitted the said slave to come on board the boat,
and having taken him on board said boat to Cincinnati, in the
statq of Ohio.
6. That if the jury believe frbm the evidence, that the slave
Jim was taken on board the Guyandotte from the state of Indiana,
the plaintiff cannot recover in this action.
7. If the jury believe from the evidence, that the defendant in
the navigation of his boat took th- slave in the declaration mentioned from the Indiana shore, believing him to be free, and that
slave was at the time a runaway slave of plaintiff, in that case
they find for defendant.

SUPREME COURT.
[Gordon v.Longest.]

8. That to enable the plaintiff to recover in this action, the
jury~must believe that the defendant took plaintiff's slave from
Louisville, or from the Kentucky shore.
The Court refused'to give those instructions.
On the. motion of the counsel for the plaintiff, the Court instructed the jury, that if they find from the evidence, that the
defendant was captain of the steamboat Guyandotte, put out his
yawiwhen bpposite to Jeffersonville,,in the state of Indiana, took
the plaintiff's negro on board, and carried him to Cincinnati, in
the state of Ohio, and that he was lost to the plaintiff, the defendant is liable in this action; and they ought to find for the plaintiff
all the damages he has'sus.tained.
To which opipions of the Court, in refusing to give the instructions asked, and in giving the instructions for the plaintiff, the
defendant excepted; and-he prayed an appeal to the Court of
Appeals of the state of Kentucky.
Befora the Court of Appeals, the appellant assigned for error,
among others, the following:
1. The Court erred in refusing to remove this cause to the
Federal Court, upon the petition of the appellant, fileM4 on his first
entering -his appearance to the suit. The 'appellant claims that
he had a right to a trial in the United States Court, and that the
whole proceedings in this cause, subsequent to the application to
,remove, are against law.
2. The Cifeuit Court erred in each and every instruction given
on the trial, at the instance of the plaintiff.
3. The Court erred in refusing to give each and every instruction asked by the appellant, Gordon, on the last trial.
4., The Circuit Court has, in violation of 'the Constitution of
the United States and of an act of Congress, clung to' a jurisdiction that did not rightfully belong to a State Court, and, on the
trial of the cause, given instructions in violation of the Constitution of the -United States, and the appellant relies upon each
and every article of the Constitution of the" United States for a

reversal.
The Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of the Circuit
Court, and the plaintiff in that Court prosecuted this writ of
error.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

101

[Gordon v. Longest]
The case was argued by Mr. Crittenden, for the plaintiff in
error. Mr. Benton appeared for the defendant.
The opinion of the Court was given on the. first 6xception to
the decision of the Court 'of Appeals of the state of Kentucky;
and on no other questibn in this, case. The argument of the
counsel for the plaintiff in error, on the other exceptions, is, therefore, omitted.
Mr. Crittenden contended that, by the eleventh and twelfth
sections, of the judiciary act' of 1789; the plaintiff in error had a
right to a trial before a: Court of the United States. The statute
gives the right to remove a cause from a: State Court to a Federal
Court, if the detendant is a citizen of another state from that
in which the suit may be brought; when the value in controversy
exceeds five hundred dollars.
The plaintid's declaration claims damages to the amount of one
thousafid dollars; and the verdict was for six hundred and.fifty
dollars.
The act of Congress says, that when it shall appear to the
satisfaction of the Court that the sum or value in controversy exreQs five hundred dollars, the cause may be removed to the Circuit Court; if the question of the amount in controversy is left to
the decision of the Court excliusively, there is an end of the case
ibr the plaintiff in error. But if it was to be settlea on evidende
satisfactory to the judicial bye; here, was that evidence, ample
and sufficient.to satisfy the judge.,
Tie damages .aid in the declaration, showed the claim of the
plaintiff to bd one .thousand dollars. This "was concluqive in
favour f the pldifitiff, in error,
Mr. Justice M'tEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the Court of Appeals of the state of Kentucky,' under the twenW-fith section of the judiciary act of 1789.
,An action was commenced in the Circuit Court of Kentucky
by the defendant in. error, against the plaintiff, to recover the
value of a 'certain, slave which the defendant took on board a
steamboat, at Louisville, of which he was master, as a passenger;
and co.nveyed him out of the state, in violation of the statutes of
Kentucky.
12

102

SUPREME COURT.
[Gordon v. Longest.]

By an act of the Kentucky legislature of 1824, to prevent the
escape and removal of slaves, the masters of vess6l &c., receiving slaves on board and removing them from that state, were
made liable to the owners of such slaves for any loss they might
sustain thereby. And by a subsequent act of 1828, it was
enacted that the liabilities under the first act "shall accrue whenever the persons of colour shall be taken on board any steam
vessel from the shores of the Ohio river,. opposite the state, to the
same exteit as if they were taken on board from the' shores or
rivers within the state."
On entering his appearance, the defendant filed his petitioff to
remove the cause to the Circuit Court of the United -States, for the
district of Kentucky, on the ground that he was a citizen of
Pennsylvania, and the plaintiff a citizen of -Kentucky- and the
defendant offered to give bond and security according to law.
The citizenship of the parties, as alleged, was .admitted; but the
plaintiff objected to the removal, and the Court decided it'did not
appear to its satisfaction that the amount in controversy exceeded.
five hundred dollars, exclusive of costs, and on that ground
refused the prayer pf the pjetition.
After the rejection. of his petition, the defendant pleaded not
guilty; and a jury, being called and sworn, found the defendant
guilty, and assessed the plaintiff's damages at four hundred and
twenty dollars, on which verdict a judgment'was entered.
During the' trial several exception were taken to the rulings
of the Court, which it is not necessary low particularly to notice.
On these exceptions a-writ of error was taken to the Court of
Appeals. Several errors were assigned in that Court, on which
a reversal of the judgment of the Circuit Court was prayed.
Among others, was one that the. Couit erred in overruling the
application to remove the cause to the Circuit Court of the United
States.
-The Court of Appeals reversed the judgment on the ground
that the plaintiff was only entitled to recover the damages he
had actually sustained by the act of the defendant, which was not
in accordance with the instruction to the jury by the Circuit
Court.
The cause was remanded to the Court below for further pro-,
ceedings. A jury being again called to try the cause, found the

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

103

[Gordon v. Longest.]

defendant guilty, and assessed the plaintiff's damages at six hundred and fifty dullars. Judgment was entered upon.this verdict,
and the cause was again removed to the Court of Appeals, by a
writ of error, on certain exceptions taken at the trial.
Among the other errors again assigned in the Court of Appeals, was the refusal, by the Circuit Court, to permit -the cause
to be removed to the Circuit Court of the United States.
The Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment; and the cause is
now brought here, by a writ of error, from that Court.
It is unnecessary to notice the other questions raised by the
exceptions, as the judgment of this Court must turn upon the
overruling, by the State Court, of the applicatior of the defendant for the removal of the cause to the Federal Court.
In their opinion the Court of Appeals did not notice this point,
although it was assigned for error on each of the writs of error
which were prosecuted before that Court.
The twelfth section of the judicia W act of 1789, provides
"that, if a suit be commenced in any State Court against an alien,
or, by a citizen of the state, is brought against a citizen of another
state, and the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of five
hundred dollars, exclusive of costs, to be made to appear to the
satisfaction of'the Court, and the defendant shall, at the tirte of
entering his appearance in such State Court, file a petition for the
removal of the cause for trial into the next Circuit Court, to be
held in the district where the suit is pending; and offer good and
sufficient surety for his eltering in such Court on th6 first day
of its session, copies of said process against him, and also for his
-then appearing and entering special bail in the cause, if spe ial
bail was originally requisite therein, it shall then be the duty of
the State Court to accept the surety, and proceed no further in
the cause."
In the declaration, the plaintiff laid his damages at the sum
of one thousand dollars, and this was the amount named in
the writ.
Under the above section it must be made to appear to the
satisfaction of the State Court that the defendant is an alien, or
a citizen of some other state than that in which suit is brought;
and that the matter in controversy, exclusive of costs, exceeds
the sum of five hundred dollars.

104

SUPREME COURT.
(Gordon v. 1.ongest.]

It being admitted on the record, that the defendant was a
citizen of Pennsylvania, and the plaintiff a citizen of Kentucky,
the only question before the Court was the amount in dispute.
The damages claimed in the writ and declaration were, unquestionably, the sum in controversy. This is not an. open question.
It has been often decided, that if the plaintiff shall recover less
than five hundred dollars, it cannot affect the jurisdiction of the
Court; a greater sum being claimed in his writ. But in such
case the plaintiff does not recover his costs; and, at the discretioni
of the Court, he may be adjudged to pay costs.
The damages claimed by the plaintiff in his writ, gives jurisdiction to the Court, whether it be an original suit in the Circuit
Court of the United States, or brought here bjr petition from a
State Court. From the decision of the state judge, he seemed to
consider the application fof the, removal of the cause as a matter
to be decided by his discretion. But he must-exercise a legal
discretion. The defendant was entitled to a right under Lhe law
of the United States; nd, on the facts of the case, the judge had
no discretian to withhold that, right. No objection can be made
.to the form of the application, nor to the facts on which it was
founded. This being clear, in the language of the above act, it
was the duty of the State Court "to proceed no further in the
cause." And every step subsequently taken, in the exercise of
a jurisdiction. in the case, whether in the same Court or in the
Court of Appeals, w-,, coram non judice.
This is the first instance known to >us, in which a State Court
has refused to a party a right to remove his " cause to the Circuit
Court of the United States. And it is impossible to conceive
of a case, in which the right of removal could be more unquestionable than in this case.
One great object in the establishment of the Courts of the
United States and regulating their jurisdiction was, to have a
tribunal in each state, pregumed to be free from local influence;
and to which all who were nonresidents or aliens might resort
for legal redress. - But this object would be defeated, if a state
judge, in the exercise of his discretion, may deny, to the party
entitled to it, a removal of his catme.
A more summary remedy Tight have been pursued by the
defendant-than the one which this Court can now give to him.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

105

[Gordon v.Longat.]

But the cause being brought before us, through the Supreme
Court of the state, we reverse the judgment of afflirmance by
that Court, and direct the cause to be remanded, with instructions that it shall be transmitted to the Circuit Court of the state;
which shall be directed to enter an allowance of the petition of
the defendant for the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the district of Kentucky, nune pro
tule.

14

