JANUARY TERM, 1842.

CHARLES KELSEY, AND CHARLES M'INTYRE, APPELLANTS, V.

FRED M. HOBBY, AND THOMAS

P.

AL-

BOND, COMLAINANTS.

On the dissolution of a partnership in 1822, it was agreed with the out-going partners.
H. and B., that the debts due to the partnership should be collected by the remaining
partners, K. and M'IL, and the debts due by the partnership should be paid by them,
and a fixed sum should be paid to H. and B., when a sufficient sum was collected for
that purpose, beyond the amount of the debts due by the firm. In 1829, K. and M'l.
having gone on under this agreement to collect the debts due to, and pay the debts
due by the partnership, H. and B. filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the South
Carolina district against K. and M'IL, charging that there was a surplus of the partnership effects, after paying all the debts, sufficient to pay them the sum which, by
the agreement made on the dissolution of the partnership was to be paid to them,
and claiming certain Bridge bills, which were to be delivered to them; and praying
for al account. The Circuit Court, after proceeding in the case, the accounts having
been frequently before a master, and after evidence had been taken, made a decree in.
favour of H. and B., for a certain sum of money, &r.; and the defendhnts appealed
to the Supreme Court. It was contended by the appellants, that the Circuit Court,
sitting in Chancery, had no jurisdiction beyond that of compelling a discovery of the
amount which K. and M'IL had received under the agreement; and that if any thing
was found due to H. and B., they were bound to resort to their action at-law on the
covenant entered into at the dissolution of the partnership, to recover it. By the
Coult, this is a clear case for relief as well as for discovery in Chancery. H. and B.
were entitled to an account; and if, upon that account, any thing was found to be due
to them, they were, upon well-settled Chancery principles, entitled to relief also.
According to the ordinary proceedings of a Court of Chancery, the Court slould pass
upon each item of an account reported by a master, when the amount actually
received by a party is in controversy. This is necessary to enable the appellate
Court to pass its judgment on the items allowed, or disallowed in the inferior Court.
But in'a case where the remaining partners had received the sum claimed from
them, beyond the debts they had agreed to pay, it mattered not how much more
they had received; and such a case does not require a statement of the exact amount.
The evidence, and accounts, and exceptions being all in the record brought into the
anpellat. Court, the Court can determine whether the sum mentioned is proved to
have been collected or hot
During the pendency of the suit in the Chancery in the Circuit Court of South Carolina, one of the complainants, H., being in New York where he had gone on other
matters than those connected with the suit, was arrested by the defendant, in a suit at
common law, for a claim which was in controversy in the suit in Chancery; andwhich
could have been adjusted in the Chancery suit; and was'rluired to give special bail
for his appearance to the suit before a Court in New York. Much difficulty arose in
procuring special bail; and having called at the counting-house of K., one of the

z2

270

SUPREME COURT.
(Kelsey and M'Ibtyre v. Hobby and Bond.]

plaintiffi in the suit, on the subject of the suit, he there executed a release of all
claims in the Chancery suit, and acknowledged accounts presented to him to be correct by which the claims in the Chancery suit in South Carolina were admitted to
be adjusted. The suit at common iaiv was then discontinued. The dLfendants
in the Circuit Court of South Carolina afterwards filed the release, and moved to
dismiss the bill; which motion was opposed on the ground that the release was obtained by duress. The parties went on to taki testimony as to the circumstances
under which the release was given. Held, that there could be no objection taken to
the introduction of the release in this form, under the circumstances of the case. The
release having been admitted without exception, no objection could afterwards be
made to the manner in which it was introduced. It had the same effect that it vould
have had upon a cross-bill, or supplemental answer; and the complainant had the
same opportunity of impeaching it.
There is no propriety in requiring technical and formal proceedings when they tend
to embarrass and delay the administration of justice; unless they are required by
some fixed principles of equity law or practice, which the Court would not be at
liberty to disregard.
If the accounts between the parties are impeached, and a release has been obtained, executed by one of the parties in a case depending before a Court of Chancery, the release
will not prevent the Court from looking into the settlements; and the release in such
a case is entitled to no greater force in a Court of Equity than the settlement of the
account on which it was given.
If a release is executed, and a settlement is made of a particular item in an account for
which suit has been brought, and in which the party has been arrested, the settlement having been confined to the claim for the damages for which the suit was
brought, the mere cir-umstances of the defendant being detained by the process
issued to recover the amount claimed would be no objection to the validity of the
agreement and release. But if, while under detention for want of special bail, a
release was obtained of other matters than those embraced in the suit, and much
more important in amqnt, and which had been insisted on for years in the suit previously instituted, then in the course of proceeding; neither the circumstances under
which the release was taken, and the account connected with it settled, nor t1,e contents of the papers, entitle thenito any consideration in it Court of Equity.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the Ur;ted States fot the
district of South Carolina.
This case was argued by Mr. Coxe, and MNr. Wood, for the
appellants; and by Mr. Legare, for the appellees.
Mr. Chief Justice

TANqEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court for the
district of South Carolina.
It appears from the record that Kelsey, M'Intyre, and Hobby,
for some time previous to the 9th of February, 1822, carried on

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

271

[Kelsey and M'Intyre v. Hobby and Bond.]

business in Georgia, as merchants, under the firm of C. Kelsey
and Company; and it- having been agreed among the partners
that Hobby should withdraw from the firm, they, on the day
above-mentioned, entered into the following agreement:
cArticles of agreement entered into, at the dissolution of the
firm of C. Kelsey and Company, between Alfred M. Hobby, of
the first part, and Charles Kelsey and Charles M'Intyre, of the
second part, witnesseth, That the said Alfred M. Hobby doth
agree to withdraw from the said firm upon the following conditions, viz.: that the said parties of the second part, are to take
upon themselves the entire settlement of the business of the said
firm, and are to pay to the said A. M. Hobby, after the debts of
the said firm are all paid and discharged, and a sufficient sum
collected out of the debts now due to the said firm, five.thousand
five hundred dollars, and in Bridge bills whenever he shall demand them, one thousand one hundred and thirty dollars. And
the paid A. M. Hobby, for said consideration of the above sums
of money to be paid, and the further sum of one dollar to him in
hand paid, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, hath relinquished and by these presents doth -transfer to the said parties
of the second part, all his interest or claims of whatever nature he
has, or may have, as partner in the said firm. It is also stipulated and agreed, that the said A. M. Hobby of the first part, in
consideration as above specified, is to protect the said parties of
the second part, from a certain judgment obtained against said
firm by the branch of the United States Bank, in this city, and to
hold them harmless from any balance, should there be any due,
after the conclusion of the settlement between John M'Kinnie
and Thomas Gardner, respecting the said judgment. And for
the faithful discharge of this agreement, we bind ourselves, our
-heirs,, executors, administrators, or assigns."
At the time this agreement was executed, an inventory was
taken of the assets and debts of the firm, by which it appeared
thAt the goods and property on hand, together with the debts due
to the partnership, were estimated at thirty-eight thousand one
hundred and sixty-four dollars and ninety-six cents; and that the
debts due from it amounted to twenty-six thousand fifty-seven
dollars and ninety-one cents, and that this schedule formed the
bsis of the agreement.

272

SUPREME COURT.
[Kelsey and M'Intyre v. Hobby and Bond.]

L Nbvember, 1829, Hobby filed his bill against Kelsey and
McIntyre, charging that there was a surplus of partnership, effects
after paying all the debts sufficient to satisfy the five thousand
five hundred dollars mentioned in the contract, as well as the
Bridge bills, arid praying an account. These Bridge bills were
notes issued by a company who had built a bridge, in the state
of Georgia; and these notes circulated as money, but at a heavy
discount.
On the 7th of February, 1830, M'Intyre' put in his separate
answer, in which he denies that the assets df the partnership produced the surplfis charged by the complainant; and exhibited an
account according to which the funds of the partnership realized
only twenty-nine thousand five hundred and eighty dollars and
eighty-three cents, and the debts- paid amounted to twenty-eight
thousand eight hundrpd and seventy-four dollars, and sixty-six
cents; and he insisted that large sums were also paid by them for
interest on the debts of the firm, and heavy expeises incurred,
which were not introduced into this account, but for which Kels ey and M'Intyre ought to be allowed credit; and that when these
sums were added, they would amount to considerably more than
had been collected; and that in addition to this, they are entitled
to an allowance of two and a half per cent. on all sums collectedand paid by them. He also averred that Hobby did not perform
his part of the agreement, and that an execution was afterwards
issued by the branch of the United States Bank, and the goods
of Kelsey and.M'In.tyre seized for the-debt against which Hobby
had covenanted to save them -harmless; and that by reason of
that execution and seizure, they were put to great expense, and.
were seriously injured m their credit and embarrassed in their
business as merchants; and insisted that they were absolved from
their agreement by the failure of Hobby to perform his part.
The answer further stated that although Kelsey and M'Intyre
denied the right of the complainant to the Bridge bills he claimed,
yet they were willing to give him an order for them on the
attorney in whose hands they had been placed for suit, and who
had prosecuted the claim to judgment. That the respondent had
alwars been ready to account wiih the complainant, Hobby, and
to deliver him these bills, but that no demand was made until
this suit was about to be instituted.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

273

[Kelsey and M'Intyre v. Hobby and Bond.)

Kelsey, the other respondent, had removed to New York a
short time before the bill was filed, and his, ans'werwas not put
in until January 10,1838. This answer is in substance the same
with that of M'Intyre, to which it refers.
There was a general replicatilon to these answers, and the ac
counts referred to a master, by order of the Court; when his report came in, many exceptions were filed to it on both sides;
and upon hearing, the Court set aside the report, and returned it
again to the master, with directions as to the principles on which
it was to be stated. A good deal of testimony was taken on both
sides, and the master made a second report at April term, 1839,
according to which the respondents had paid two thousand and
thirty-one dollars and five cents, beyond the assets which came
to their hands. Many exceptions were again filed on both sides
to this report, and it was by order-of the Court again returned to
the master with directions to take further proof as to one of the
items in controversy.
I In the latter end of August, 1839, while thd accounts were
pending before the master, as hereinbefore mentioned, Hobby
went to New York where Kelsey resided and was carrying on
business; and a few days after he arrived there, he was arrested at
the suit of Kelsey and M'Intyre, upon a claim for four thousand
dollars as damages for not having saved them harmless against
the debt due the Branch Bank of the United States, according to
his covenant in the agreement hereinbefore mentioned. It seems
that Kelsey was advised by his counsel, in New York, that this
claim could n6t be allowed him in the Chancery suit, because the
damages were unliquidated. Being a stranger in the city, he
found difficulty in procuring special bail. '3ut an acquaintance
whom he had occasionally met in society, and to whom he applied, entered into a bail-bond to the sheriff conditioned that he
would appear to the suit and put in special bail within twenty
days after the fourth of September then next ensuing; Hobby
asuring him that he expected some of his southern friends to be
in New York in a few days, and that he would then be able to
relieve him. The party who thus became his security informed
Hobby, in the presence of the officer in whose custody he was,
that he could not justify as special bail; and he was not, there-

SUPREME COURT.

274

[kelsey and M'Intyre v. Hobby and Bond.]

fore, accepted as security in the bond, until the oficer consulted
Kelsey's counsel and received his consent.
The southern friends, of whom Hobby spoke, when they
arrived offered to become his special bail, but not living in the
state of New York they could not be taken without the consent
of Kelsey, And Hobby remained in New York, unable to procure special bail until the sixth of September, when he signed
an admission of the correctness of an account concerning the
whole controversy in the Circuit Court, which had been prepared
some time before by one of Kelsey's clerks. According to this
account, Kelsey and M'Intyre had paid fifteen thousand eight
hundred and fifty-nine dollars seventy-three cents, under the
agreement with Hobby, beyond the amount of the partnership
funds that came to their hands. And at the same time that he
signed the account, he executed the following release:
.dccount of C. Kelsey and Company with the old concern of C.
Kelsey and Company. United States, South CarolinaDistrict. Being Sixth District, United States.
A. M. Hobby and Thomas C. Bond, Now pending before said
v.

Court.

Charles Kelsey and Charles M'Intyre,
In Chancery.
In this case, the parties, Alfred M. Hobby and Charles Kelsey
have come together, and examined the subject-matters in dispute,
and they find, the within account correct, and it is hereby admitted to be correct,'and every entry in it. And they do not deem
it just or equitable that said suit should be further prosecuted.
And in consideration of the premises, and one dollar paid, the
parties in said suit hereby discharge each-other from all demand
in the same. And each party releases and discharges the other
from all demand of every name and nature, and agree that the
said suit should be discontinued. As witness our hands and seals,
this sixth day of September, eighteen hundred and thirty-nine:
A. M. HoBBY. [L. s.]
C. KELSEY.

[L. s.]

Witness to the signatures and seals of A. M. Hobby and C. Kelsey.
GEo. H. KELSEY.
B. A. HEGEKON.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

275

[Kelsey and MIntyre v. Hobby and Bond.]

This release was attached to the account settled at the same
time; and a letter written by Hobby to his counsel, and shown to
Kelsey, stating that they had come to a settlement, and directing
the suit in Chancery to be discontinued: and Hobby was thereupon discharged from the arrest, and shortly afterwards left New
York.
On the 8th of January, 1840, the release and settlement abovementioned were produced in Court by the solicitors for the respondents, and a motion thereupon made to dismiss the bill.
This motion was resisted on the part of the complainant, but the
particular grounds upon which it was objected to are not set
forth. The order of the Court merely states that the release was
impeached by the complainant's -counsel, and, authorizes both
parties to take testimony in regard to the settlement and release.
Under this order, sundry depositions were taken and returned on
the part of the complainant, to show that the settlement and release were without consideration, and that they were extorted
from him by the arrest under which he was detained in New
York; his southern friends and acquaintances being refused as
bail, because they did not reside in the state, and he being iuable to leave the city until the temporary bail he had procured
was discharged. And sundry depositions were also taken and
returned on the part of Kelsey, to show that there was no
harshness or oppression on his part, and no undue advantage
taken of Hobby; and that the settlement and release were freely
and voluntarily made.
The case came on for final hearing on the 30th of May, 1840,
upon the report of the master, and the exceptions filed to it on
both sides.' The report, which stated as before, a balance of
two thousa'nd and thirty-one dollars and ninety-five cents, in
favour of Kelsey and M'Intyre, for payments and allowances
made to them, over and above the sums realized by them from
the partnership effects, was set aside by the Court; and upon the
testimony in the. cause, the Court proceeded to pass a decree in
favour of the complainant, for five thousand five hundred dollars
with interest, and for the Bridge bills mentioned in the agreemept, and allowing to the respondents a set-off of three hundred
doiAars, for the damages sustained by reason of the execution
issued against them by the Branch Bank of the United States, as

276

-SUPREME COURT.
"Kelsey and M'Intyre v. Hobby and Bond.]

hereinbefore stated. From this decree the respondents appeaied
to this Court.
This statement of the facts in the case may appear to be
tedious; but from the nature of the proceedings it is necessary,
in order to show how the points 'arose which were made in the
argument in this Court.
The appellants contend that the Court of Chancery had no
jurisdiction beyond that of compellihng a discovery of the amount
which Kelsey and M'Intyre had received under the agreement;
and that if any thing was found. due from them to Hobby, he
was bound to resort to his action at law on the covenant in order
to recover it. But the Court think it was a very clear case for
relief, as well as discovery in Chancery. It is true he had ceased
to be a partner, but the appellants had received the assets of the
partnership upon a trust that they would collect them, and pay
the debts, for which Hobby was liable as well as themselves; and
would pay over to him the sum before mentioned, as soon as
they collected enough for that purpose after the payment of debts.
He was, therefore, entitled to an account; and if upon that account any thing was found due to him, he was, upon well-settled
Chancery principles, entitled to relief also.
N either can the objection be sustained as to the mode in which
the amount due was ascertained. It is true, that according to the
ordinary mode of proceeding in Courts of Equity, instead of setting aside the report of the master, the Coifrt should have passed
its judgment upon each of the exceptions, or have remanded the
account to the auditor with additional directions as to the principles upon which it was to be stated. And if it had been necessary to ascertain precisely the amount which the appellants had
collected over and above the debts they had paid, the proceeding
adopted by the Court would -have been liable to the objections
urged against it. For the decree could not in that case have
been reviewed in the appellate Court, and the exact balance
ascertained; unless the record showed what items were allowed
and what disallowed in the inferior Court. But this is niot a case
of that description. If the appellants had received-the sum
claimed by Hobby beyond the amount of debts paid, it mattered
not how much more they had received ; and the case did not
require a statement of the exact amount. And as the evidence,

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

277

[Kelsey and M'Intyre v. Hobby and Bond.]

and accounts, and exceptions are all n the record, this Court can
determine whether -the sum mentioned is proved to have been
collected or not. "And if it appears. to have been received, the
decree must be affirmed; even although it may happen that items
allowed by the Circuit Court -are disallowed here; or items disallowed by that Court are determined here to- be correct and
properly chargeable. And, as all the testimony is before us, and
the-exceptions show all of the disputed items, neither -party can
be taken by surprise.
It would extend this opinion to a most unreasonable length, if
the Court were to enter upon a particular-and detailed examination of the variouz, disputed items, and of the testimony and calculations relied on by the parties to support their-respective claims.
Fourteen exceptions were taken to the auditor's report by the
complainants, and six by the defendants; and the evidence upon
which they depend is voluminous. Four of them require a particular examination and comparison of different accounts, in order
to arrive at a just conclusion. We have lookea. into the whole
testimony, very carefully, and unless the release and settlehient
in New York is to be regarded as conclusive, we are satisfied
that Kelsey and M'Intyre have received from the partnership
assets beyond the amount paid for debts, a larger sum than that
decreed against them by the Circuit Court.
This brings us to examine the release, and the account stated
at the time it was given.
Some objections have been made as to the manner in which
the release was introduced into the proceedings. lit was filed in
the cause, and a motion thereupon made to dismiss thebill; and
it is said that being executed while the suit was pending, and
after the answers were in, and the accounts before the master, it
should have been brought before the Court by a crossbill or supplemental answer, and could not in that stage of the proceedings
be noticed by the Court in any other way. It is a sufficient
answer to this objection to say that it was admitted in evidence

without exception, and both parties treated it as properly in the
cause; and the complainant proceeded to take testimony to show
that it was obtained from him by duress, and the defendants to
show that it was freely and voluntarily given. It had the same
effect that it would have had upon a crossbill or supplemental
VOL. XVI.-2 A

278

SUPREME, ]COURT.
[Klsey and M'Intyre v. Hobby and Bond.]

answer, and the complainant had the same opportunity of impeaching it. And there is no propriety in requiring technical and
formal proceedings, when they tend to embarrass and delay the
administration of justice; unless they are required by some fixed
principles of equity law or practice, which the Court would not
be at liberty to disregard.
The release and account being therefore regularly before the
Court, we proceed to inquire into their legal effect, and the degree
of weight to which they'are, entitled. The effect of a release,
executed in ,consideration of the settlements o accounts between
the 1arties is clearly stated in Story's Equity Proceedings, p. 529,
see. 685. If the account is impeached, the release will not prevent the Court from looking into the settlement; and the release
in such a case is entitled to no greater torce in a Court of Equity
than the settlement of the account upon which it was given. In
the case before us, the settlement of the account was the only
consideration for the release. The. complainant, who resides in
Georgia, anu who had gone to New Y6rk upon business, was
unexpectedly arrested for a claim which was then pending between the same parties in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of South Carolina. The suit was brought
for damages alleged to have been sustained by thd failure of
Hobby to indemnify the appellants against the claims of the
Branch Bank of. the United States hereinbefore mentioned. It
is true, that the plaintiffs in the suit were advised by counsel that
they could not be allowed for these damages in the proceeding in
equity, because they were unliquidated; and they ought not therefore to be held accountable for that error. Yet it 3 very clear that
the suit should not have been brought; because-these damages
formed one of the items in controversy between the parties in the
suit in Chancery, which had been so long pending between them.
And that Court had not only jurisdiction over the subject, but it
was bound to ascertain and allow them before it could adjust the
account, and grant the relief to which the complainant was
entitled. - The mode by which a Court of Chancery ascertains
the amount in casoi .of that cfec.ription, is either by a reference
to the master, or by sen'ding an issue of quantum damnificatus to
be tried by a jury.. The cases upon this subject are collected,4nd
arranged in 2 Story's Commentaries on Equity, eh. 19, p 104.

JANtARY TERM, 1842..

-279

(Kelwy and Mq'Inre v. Hdbby and Bond.]

And the aamages .in; question were in fact ascertained by the
Court and deducted from the amount due to Hobby in the decree
now undek examination. But,. nevertheless, as Kelsey in this
respect acted by the advise of his counsel, if the settlement which
afterwards took place, had been confined to the claim he was
seeking to enforce,-the agreement between the pafties to fix the
damages at any particular amount.-would haie bound Hobby,
unless it was evidently unreasbnale, and exorbitant; or he could
prove it was obtained by improper. means. The mere circumstance of his being detained in New York by reason of the process issued to recover~the amount claimed, would be no objection
to the validity of the agreement. But while Hobby was detained
in the manner before stated, and unable to procure special bail,
Kelsey' obtained from.him a release of matters, not embraced in
this suit, and much more important inamount;. and *hich Hobby
had 'been insiting on for years, and for which hewas prosecuting
a suit in the Circuit Court. Neithe' the c rcumstances under which
the release was taken, and the accbuntconneete&with itsettled,nor
the contents of these papprs, can entitle them to weight in 4LCourt
of Equity. There is no evidence of any negotiations between
the parties respectibg this arrangement, previous th the interview
at which these lpapers were signed. "Uponthat occasion one of
the-clerks of Kelsey was present. He is one of the witnessesto
the release. He does not say who proposed a settlelent, but he
states that the account admitted by Hobby had. been prepared a
long time before by one of Mr. Kelley's clerks; that the examination of the accotmt'did not take more than ten minutes. And
the interview, at which it was acknpwledged and signed,.and the
release executed; and a letter written by Hobby to his counsel in
South Carolina to discontinue the suit agafit Kelsey ahd'M'Intyre, did not last more'than an hour.
This'is the test.imony of the witness. No books or papers appear to have been produced, or to -have been in the qity of New
York, at the time, in the possession of either-p.arty, except the
account produced by Kelsey, and signed by him ,and Hobby.
And yet the. release states that the parties had "come together
and examined the subject-matters in dispute," and found that
accqunt correct; and thereby - admitted it to be correct,.and every
entry in it." And the account too which is thus admitted, con-

SUPREME COURT.
[Kelsey al MIntyze v. Hobby and Bona.]

tains items for "exchange paid," 4clos by discount on money
received in collection of the partnership debts," .rent for counting
room," travelling expenses, postage, clerk hire, incidental expenses, and sundry others which would have required much time
to examine, and.the production of many vo.chers-befofe Hobby
could have known whether they were correct or ndt. The account in important particulars differs from the one on which
Kelsey and M'Intyre had themselves relied in the Circuit Court
of South Carolina; and is more unfavourable to Hobby, by about
twenty thousand dollars, than the one which Hobby, had been
so long insisting on in his suit.* Such an account and release, executed under such circumstances, are not entitled to the consideration and weight.which belongs to instruments freely executed,
and with opportunities of knowledge and examination. So far
from strengthening the claims of the appellants, they, in the
judgment of the Court, are calculated rather to bring suspicion
upon thei. They certainly cannot outweigh the testimony taken
in the Chancery proeeedings; and the decree of the Circuit Court
is therefore affirmed.

