SUPREME COURT.

TH, UNITED STAins, APPELLANTS, v. JoN W. Low ET AL.,
APPELLEES,
A Florida land claim. On the 6th of April, 1816,,a grant was made by the Governor
of Florida of five miles square, or sixteen thousand acres of land, on condition that a
mill should be built.
The grant of six thousand acres was for land on boctor's Branch, where the mill was
intended to be erected. The ten'thousand acres were granted on the north-east side,
on the lagoon of Indian river. The six thousand acres were surveved in 1809, on
Ductor's Branch, and the mill was built. The survey under thi grant, was confirmed.
The survey often thousand acres was-made in February, 1820, by the surveyor-general of
Flori&, "north-westwardly of the head of Indian river, and west of the prairies of the
.tresin called North Creek, which empties itself at-the head or pond of said river."
otfcialretum of the surveyor-genetal has acceded to it the force of a deposition.
llud granted could only be surveyed at the place granted; if elsewhere, it would
nave been-a new appropriation, and therefore void, and contrary to the eighth article
of the treatywith Spain.
Accoring to the strict ideas of conforming a survey to a location, in the United State,
the survey of ten thousand acres should be located adjoining the natural object
called for, there being no other to aia and control the general call; and therefore
the bead of the lagoon would necessarily have formed one boundary. But it is obviou,
more latitude was allowed in the province of Florida, under the government of Spain.
The surveyor-generad having -eturned that the survey was made aecording to the
grant, and in the abkence of other contradictory proof, the claim was confirmed.

ON appeal from the Superior Court of East Florida.
The heirs of iohn Low claimed sixteen thousand acres of land
in East Florida, under a grant by'Governor Coppinger, founded
,on a petition alleged to have been presented by their ancestor,
dated 20th March, 1816, and. a decree ofGovernor Coppinger
thereon, dated April 6th, 1816. 'I~he petition states, that, "-bounding with the petitioner's land, on Bell river, there was a creek
known by the name of Doctor's Branch, which was suitable for
the establishment of a water saw-mill, and, as he could: construct,
and was desirous of constructing immediately, a saw-mill on said
place, if he could obtain the' permission of governnieit, and a
grant of the accustomed quantity of land for the supply of lumber,
and the assurance, in his favour, that the great expeinses that
were indispensable to its construction, and the risks to which he

JANUARY' 'TERM, 1842.

163

[The United States v. Low et LJ]

would be liable, would be compensated; ,he therefore prayed
that the governor would grant him five miles squire of land, or
its equivalent, permitting him to take" six thousand.acres in the
vacantlandsin the neighbourhood, of Doctor's Branch, and ten
thousand acres on the north-west side of the head or lagoon of
Indian river."
The governor's,decree on this petition states, that, "in consideration of the benefit and utility that would r.esult td the 'province, should it be executed as the petitioner proposed; he grants
him the permission he asked, likewise the lands at the places he
mentioned; with the express condition, that, until he erected the
said machine, he should not have an absolute right in them," &c.
The originals of the petition and decree were not produced in
evidence, neither are they to be -foundin the archives at St. Augustine. A certified copy, dated April 6th, 1816, under the hand
of Thomas de Aguilar, secretary of the govenment, (whose handwriting was proved,) stated to be, faithfully drawn from the
original in h]is office, was alone offered; and was objected to on
the part of the appellants.
There were also produced two plats and certificates of survey,
made by George J. F. Clark, the surveyor-general, for John Low.
The first is dated December, 23d, 1819, for If ix thousand acres
of land in the place called Doctor's Branch, on Bell river." The
second is dated February 7th, 1820, for "ten thousand acres of
land north-westwardly of the head of Indian river, and west
of the prairies of the stream called North Creek, which empties
itself at the head or pond of said river."
Among the witnesses examined to prove the building of the
mill, was George J. F. Clark; who was objected to by the district
attorney. The objection to the testimony of George J. F. Clark,
taken in the Superior Court, was made on the ground that he was
interested in the case. Itappeared'from the record, that after he
had been examined Qn interrogatories to prove the surveys made
by him, the following was attached, at his request, to the exagi'nation of the commissioner.
"I further slate, that in February, 1821, I purchased of the
said John Low a tract of land embraced by this grant; this I
mention in support of my confidence in the integrity thereof;

164

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Low t .]

while I exercise the caudour due to the honourable Court in this
case, and to myself-as a witness. Perhaps it may be necessary
to add, that before Febxuary, 1821, I was entirely uninterested
in this'granL
GEORGE 3. F. CLRKE.
Before me,

K.B. GiBBs, Commissioner."

After hearing the testimony, the Court made a decree in favour
of the claimants f6r both tracts of land, from which the present

appepl is taken.
The case was argued by Mr. Legare, the attorney-general, for
the United States i and by Mr. *Berrien, and Mr. Wilde, for the
appellees.
For the UniteA States it was contended:
1. That the testimonyof Clarke-was improperly admitted.
2. That there was not. 'Ufficient evidence that the said alleged
grant or concession was ever made.by Governor Coppinger.
3. That the alleged concession, if ever made, was on a condition precedent, which was never fulfilled.
4.. -That the description-of the six thousand acres in the neighbourhood of Doctor's Branch, is too vague to be the founiation
Of a valid,survey:
5. Thatthe plat and certificate of survey for the tract of ten
thbusand acres, d6 not answer to the description contained in the
pretended grant, and so cannot be the origin of title.
The .attomey-general said, that, as the representative of the
United States, it was his dutyyin all the cases of land claims sent
up from Florida, to examine them with a jtidicial eye.
The act of Congress reqiiires that all the cases of this description
brought before the Courts of Florida, in-which the decision shall
be against the United States, should be brought by appeal to this
Court. If the law officer of the government see any thing in the
case, it is his duty to, present it to the Court for its decision; and,
in doing this, he is not restrained by any thing .which may have
been done or omitted by the district attorney of the United States,
before the Courts of Florida. The whole subject is open; andunder this view the whole of the matters before the Court below

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

165

[The United States v. Low et a.]

may be fully examined, and exceptions taken here, which had
been omitted upon the first hearing of the case.
That this grant is null and void, has been already decided on
the principles settled by this Court in the case of the United States
v. Sibbald, 10 Peters, 313; and in other cases. This was a grant
on a precedent condition, the establishment of a mill. The con)n was not performed. The evidence is insufficient to establish the improvement. The description of the land in the grant
is too vague and indefinite.
The evidence of Clark should have been rejected by the Court;
and this Court will exercise the power to strike it out, although
it was allowed to be read by the district attorney of the United
States. The memorandum made by the commissioner, , fter
taking the examination, shows his interest in the case. He had
purchased a part of the very grant his testimony was to sustain.
As to the regulations of Spain relative to grants of lands by
the governors of their territories, and-which this Court had declared to be in force, the attorney-general cited 2 White's New
Recopilacion, 278.
Mr. Berrien and Mr. Wilde, for the appellees.
No question can be presented to the Court, on this record,
which has not already been decided in the many Florida cases
which lhivm

been £roqnuoatly cxaminorl sndApndil

*by it.

The

grants are sufficiently descriptive. The lands were found by the
surveyor-general, under the Spanish government; and surveys
and plats were made of them. Whether the survey o1 the ten
thousand acres was near to or distant from the six thousand acre
tract, is- of no consequence. The power of the Spanish governor to make the grant where he thought proper, was complete.
The construction of Spanish grants is not determined by the
principles of the common law, but by the laws and ordinances of
Spain, by treaties, and by the orders of the king. This has
often been so held by this Court. Cited, Delespine's Case,
15 Peters, 341.
The evidence to establish the performance of the condition, is
sufficient without the testimony of Clarke. But still Clarke's
evidence is insisted upon. A party is not to be taken by surprise
by a new exception in- this Court, and to be called upon to sup-

166

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v.Low et A.]

port the legality of evidence which was allowed by the Court
below. ,Cases from Florida are not exceptions to the principles
-which govem other. appeals brought here.
But the testimony of Clarke was legal. The statement made
by the commissioner is no part of his evidence; and if it is, it
does not show that he was interested at the time of his examination. He had been interested, but that interest might have ceased.
He:does not assert a.present interest.
Mr. Justice

CATRON

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This was a mill grant of five miles square of land, or sixteen
thousand acres: that is, at Doctor's Branch, where the mill was
intended to -be erected, six thousand acres; and ten thousand
acres- "on the north-west, side of the head or lagoon of Indian
river."
, The concession was made (6th of April, 1816,) on the condition
that the mill was built. The mill was erected.
The first survey was made at Doctor's Branch, in 1819, and is
free from objection.
.'The second, for ten thousand acres, was made February, 1820,
by the surveyor-general of East Florida, "north-westwardly of
the head of Tudian river, and west of the prairies of.the stream
called North Creek; which empties itself at the head or pond
of said river." Such is the desoription in the certificate of the
.surveyor-general. The survey had been objected to, but the objection was withdrawn at the hearing-below; and it is insisted
that a waiver of its legality must be inferred. The objection extended to the competency of the paper as evidence, and nbt to its
'effect when heard; so the Court held in Breward's Case, at this
term.
The official return to the surveyor-general has accorded to it
the force of a deposition. So ve held in the cases of Breward
and Hanson; to which we refer.
The land could only be surveyed at the place granted; if elsewhere, it would have been a new appropriation, when the survey
bears date in 1819, contrary to the eighth article of the treaty
with Spain: and the question is, was it at the proper place. It was granted "on the north-west side of the head of Indian
river, or lagoon."

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

167

[The United States v. Low et al.]

According to the strict ideas of conforming a survey to a location, in the United States, the survey would be located -adjoining
the natural object called for, there being no other to aid and control the general call; and therefore the head of the lagoon would
necessarily have formed one boundary. But it is obvious more
latitude was allowed in the province of Florida. The object of
the grant was timbered land, fit for the supply of lumber; and if
the nearest vacant timbered land to the head of the lagoon was
surveyed, the intentions of the government and of the grantee
were complied with. This was the construction given by the
surveyor-general to the words "north-west side." He permitted
the general call to vary so far, and no farther, as to secure timbered land, excluding the prairies next the head of the lagoon.
The legality of the survey depends on the fact. The description
given in the certificate above recited, and that set forth by the
decree must be taken together; the lines and boundaries on other
lands are given in the decree. The complaint is, that the land
was surveyed too far west. On the north, it is bounded by the
lands of Charles Sibbald; on the south, by those of John M'Intosh; on the west, by royal, or vacant lands; and on the east, by
the prairies of .North Creek, which empties itself at the head of
,Indian lagoon. There is no evidence that North Creek is navigable. If there was such evidence, as the survey includes the
creek, we would reverse the decree, and order the survey only to
front one-third part on the creek. The surveyor-general certifies
that this ten thousand acres is the tract of land granted to the
petitioner, on the 6th of April, 1816: and, although no reliance
would be placed on the assertion in the certificate, standing alone;
still, taking the return that the survey was on the land granted,
in connection. with all the facts and circumstances appearing in
the record, and it tends to confirm the conclusion that the land
was laid off on the next land to the head of the lagoon, covered
with timber. One other consideration has weight. If it be untrue that the survey is at the proper place, the Uiited States
could have proved the fact to a certainty, with the slightest diligence; and ought to have proved it. This consideration. is
strengthened by the pleadings and evidence. The petition filed
in 1829, alleges that the surveys were made for lands granted;
and sets out the descriptions, courses, and distances, to which the

168

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Low et al.]

attorney of the United States made no answer: the fact was not
admitted for this reason, and necessary to be proved by the complainant, 6 Cranch, 51 ; yet it shows that the claim was not
resisted on this ground; and such was clearly the case throughout, as George F. Clarke, the surveyor-general, was twice
examine& as a witness, on many interrogatories, without having
been requested to state the locality of the ten thousand acres survey. Upon all these facts and circumstances taken together, we
order the decree to be affirmed.

