JANUARY TERM, 1842.

Ti

UzTimm

STATES, PLAINTrs

ELASON, ADMINISTRATRIX
FENDANT IN ERROR.

IN

ERROR, V.

OF WILLIAm

A.

MARY L.
Dz-

ELIASON,

An action was brought by the United Stat" against Captain Eliason, for a balance due
by him as diburing officer at Fortress Calhoun. The defendant claimed an allowance
as commissions on the disbursement of large sums of money under the orders of the
War Department in 1834, and thq years included up to 1838, under the regulations
of the War Department contained in the Army Regulations printed in 1821, "at
the rate of two dollars per diem, during the continuance of sucht disbursements, provided the whole amount of emoluments shall not exceed-two and a half per cent. on
the sum expended."
By a subsequent regulation of the War Department of 14th March, 1835, adopted in
consequence of the provisions of an act of Congresstof 3d March, 1835, all extra
compensation of every kind, for which provision had not been made by law, was dis
allowed. The defendant's intestate claimed that the provisions of the act of Marc
3d, 1835, were applicable only to the disbursing of public money appropriated by law
during the session of Congress in whigh that act was passed. Held: that the order
of the War Department of 14th March, 1835, took away all right -to the extra allowances claimed under the prior army regulations.
In the district of Columbia, a writ of error lies to the decision of the Circuit Court, upon
an agreed case. The same principle has been applied in cases brought before the Su.
preme Court from other parts of the United States. Cited, Few v. Robertson's Executors, 3 Cranch, 173; Tucker v. Oxley, 5 Cranch, 34; Kennedy v. Brent,
6 Cranch, 187; Brent v.-Chapman, 5 Cranch, 358; Shankland v. The Corporation
of Washington, 5 Peters, 390; Inglee v. Cooledge, 2 Wheat. 363; Miller v. Ni.
chols, 4 Wheat. 311.
The power of the executive to establish rules dud regulations for the government of the
army is undoubted. The power to satablish, necessarily, implies the power to modify an
to repeal, or to create anew. The Secretary at War is the regular constitutional organ
ofthd President for the administration of the military establishment of the nation; and
rules and orders, publicly promulgated through him, must be received as the acts of
he executive, and as such are binding upon all within the sphere of his legal and contitutional authority.

IN error from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
county of Washington, in the district of Columbia.
In February,,1839, the United States instituted a suit against
William A. Eliason, a captain in the United States corps of
engineers, for the recovery of two thousand four hundred and
nine.ty-two dollars and eighteen cents, a balance in his hands, of

292

SUPREME COURT.
[The United State v. Eliason.]

moneys paid to him for the purpose of disbursement at Fort Calhoun, and of one hundred and eight dollars and fifty-seven cents,
beyond the incidental expenses of fortification, making together
two 'thousand six hundred dollars and seventy-five cents. On
the decease of Captain Eliason, the suit was proceeded in against
his administratrix.
In the Circuit Court, the counsel for the plaintiffs and the de.
fendant agreed"upon the following statement.
"On the trial of the above cause, the plaintiffs, to maintain the
issue on their parts joined, offered in evidence the transcript from
the Treasury Department, (showing the balance elaimed,) and the
defendant then offered evidence to show that the said intestate was
a captain in the United States corps of engineers, and as" such
was ordered. to take charge and superintend the works on Fortress
Calhoun, and took charge of, and continued the said work from
the Ith. of November, 1834, to the loth of September, 1838; and
further offered in evidence the general regulations of the War
Department, *as iollows. And, further, that the said intestate
while tnUs employed, disbursed two hundred and fourteen thodsand, three'hundred and ninetytwo dollars and sixty-one cents:
that he wag also directed to take charge of, and, superintend the
removal of a light-house into Fortress Calhoun, in which service
he disbursed one thousand one hundred and forty-three dollars
and thirteen cents: and further, that he was charged with the
disbursement of, and did disburse the sum of one thousand eight
hundred and ninety-one dollars and fortW-three cents, for incidental -expenses of fortifications, beginning in the year 1830; and
* that he purchased for the use of the Engineer Department, a set
of instruments and case, and the department allowed him for the
instruments, but refused to allow him for the case, amodnting to
ten dollars; and further, that the pay and emoluments of the said
intestate. had been -stopped by- the government of the United
States, from the 31st of December, 1838, to the 15th day of June,
1839,. amounting to one thousand and fourteen dollars and ninetyfive cents; and the defendant then claimed credit."
The account of Captain Eliason, which had been submitted to
the acounting officers of the Treasury; and the appropriations
in the Treasury, were made a part of the case.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

293

[The United States v. Eliason.]

The regulations 9f the War Department of 13th March, 1835,
were:
"cThe proviso in the act of Congress, passed March 3,1835, entitled
iAact making additional appropriations for the Delaware
Breakwater, and for certain hprbours, and removing obstructions
in and at the mouths of certain rivers, for the year one thousand
eight hundred and thirty-five;' and which prohibits the allowance
of extra compensation to.officers of the army, has been submitted
to the attorney-general, for his opinion, and that officer has decided that it extenis tq, and prohibits the allowance of all Qxtra
compensation, of every kind whatsoever, for.which provision is
not mane by law. Hereafter, therefore, no such extra compensation will be allowed."'
The.prohibition under this. order took effect from the passage
of the lav.
The instructions; after enumerating particular offices held'to
be Included in the proviso, by the Sectetary at War, proceed to
say: "The construction of the act will apply, soas-to prevent ihe
granting of any extra compensation of any nature whatever, unless expressly authorized by.law.
"The attorney-general has decided that the general clause in the
above proviso will render illegal the allowance of any per centage or compensation for disbursing appropriations, made previous
to, as well as during the last session of Congress."
Article 67, sec. 14, from the Army Regulations, priated. in
1821, was also in evidence.
" Where there is no agent for fortifications, the supermLnudipg
officer shall perfornm the duties of agent, and while'performing such
duties, the rules and regulations for the government of the agents
shall be applicable to him; and, as compensation for ihe, performance of that extra duty, he will be allowed for moneys expended
by him in the construction of fortificatibns, at the rate of two
dollars per diem during, the continuance of such disbursements:
provided the.whole amount of emolument shall not exceed twio
and a half per cent. on the sum expended.,"
In the Circuit Court the following judgment was given: "The
Court is of opinion that the proviso in the act of the 3d of March,
1835, ch. 303i is only applicable to the disbursing of public money
appropriated by law during the session of Congress in which that
2B2

SUPREME COURT.
CThe United States v. ElisMon.]

act was passed; and it appearing- therein, to the satisfaction of
the Court.that no part of the mQney so as aforesaid disbursed by
the said defendant, was appropriated at the said session of Congress, th6 -Court is also of opinion that the said intestate was
entitled to the allowance claimed by him for the disbursements
as above -stated, and do thereupon order the judgment to be entered for the said defendant."
Tue Tnited States prosecuted this-writ oferror.
The case was argued by Mr.Legar6, the attorney-general, for
the United States; and by Mr. Bradley, for the. defendant.
"Mr. tegar6 contended, that the regulations of the War Department- of March 13th, 1815, were conlusive) on the claims
of all the officers of the army,,who came within their provisions.
He was fully aware of the decision of this Court in General
"Gratiot's Case, and in Minis's Case, 15 Peters, 423, but the principle which Was now claimed, was not affectetl by the- rule laid
down in those cases. The cases of the United States v. Ripley,
7 Peters, 18,'and the other cases in the same volume, stand unaffedted by the principle on which the United States now relry.
These are.special'regtlations of the War Department, and the
department had full authority to establish such rules.
f the true
construction of the act of Congress of March 3d, 1835, is that it applied only t6 appropriations made at that session; the r~gulations
of the War-Department, proprio vigore, had a full and valid application to all the cases subsequent to them, to which they applied.
The question submitted to the Court is,.whether after the regulations of 13th March, 1835, biy ailowance can be claimed for
.thoseextra services?
Mr. Bradley, for the -defendant, argued; that a the cause was
adjudged in the Circuit Court*on a case stated, the writ'of error
should be dismissed.
1. No writ of error will lie on a 'pecial case stated, 3 Black.
Com. 378; Tidd's Pract. 808, 809; "1Archibold's Pract.,pl. 192
Stephen's Pleading, 93.
2. Where a writ of error will not lie, there can be no bill of
exceptions. 1 Archbold's Pract. 187; Hard. 249, Bos. & P. 3, 16;
Tidd's Pract. 791 ; 1-Silk,2,4; 1 Black. Rep. 679.

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

295

[The United States v. Eliason.)

3. On a special case stated, unless the judge expressly reserves
the power- of turning the special case into a special verdict, it
cannot be done. 2 DowL Rep. 78; and the cases cited on the
other points.
As to the right of set-off, no doubt or controversy exists. The
claim of Captain Eliason has, in fact, been allowed up to the
passage of the act of 3d March, 1835. In the case of Minis v.
The United States, 15 Peters, this Court decided that the act
prohibited extra allowances only in the cases of the disbursement
of public money, appropriated during the session of Congress of
1834, 1835. The claim now before the Court is for services in
disbursing appropriations made before and since that acc. The
right of the defendant in error is not, therefore, affected by that act.
The claim is rested on the usage of the department, and upon
the Army Regulations, and on numerous decisions of this Court,
down to the case of Gratiot in 15 Peters; in which such claims were
most distinctly recognised, and the previous decisions affirmed.
It seems to be conceded, that the claim should have been allowed, but for the order of the War Department of 14th March,
18W5, by which such claims are supposed to be prohibited.
In Gratiot's Case, 15 Peters, 371, the.Court, after having stated
the right of the government thus to employ officers, and the right
to compensation growing out of it, say," To sustain the refusal
of the Court, in the present case, it is therefore indispensable to
show that there some law which positively prohibits, or by just
implication denies any of the disputed items, or any part of them."
It is conceded that there is no st-h law; but it is argued that
the implied contract cannot exist itthe face of the order or regulation of the War Department of 14tt of March, 1835.
Could this.order or regulation revoke the regulations of 1821,
1825? They were made in, obedience to a law of Congress.
They ought to have the force of law. Did it intend to repeal those
regulations ? Is it, on its face, anything more than the exposition
of the act of 3d March, 1835, as construed by the attorney-general of the United States soon after it was passed?
If that construction was erroneous ; as has been decided by this
Court; is not the detailed exposition in the orders of the War Department equally erroneous?- Although it professes to be prohibitory, is it nything more than an opinion-an erroneous opinion

296

SUPREME COURT.
[Tho United Stae V.EliWa.]

afthe Secretary at War? He says the prohibition took effect from
the passage of the law. Could this do so ? - It is not designed
and ofight not. to be conarned as a repealing regulation. It is
notso on its face, Qr-upon a full examination of its language.
Mr. Justice DANr s delivered the opinion of the Court
Upon awrit of error tp the Circuit Court of Washington county,
in the'district of Columbia.
On the 16th day of February, 1839, the plaintiffs instituted an
action of assumpsit in the Circuit Court of Washington county*,
against William A; Eliason, for the balance of two thousand sixhundred dollars and seventy-five cents, charged against him on
the -books of the Treasufy as disbursing olfiuer at.Fortress Cal,
°houn, between the datesof the 7th' of November, 1834, and the
loth o'septembef, 1838.
--The defendant Eliason appeared to the suit and-filed the plea
of nqn-assumpsit, upon which issue was joined; but having died
before the cause came to trial, the defendant in eiror, ks administratrit of te dededent, was made a party dpfendant, and the
cause regularly progressed -to- trial upon the issue made up between the origiil parties. Upon the trial before the Circuit
Court, the follo*ing case was agreed between the parties by their
attomeys; to be subject-to'the opinion of the Court, as to the law
upon the-same, viz.: 'On the trial of the above cause, the plain7
evitiffs, to maintain the issue on their'part joined, offered in.
dnce .the transcipts.from the Treasury Department, (which are
found 1ipages 12 to 16 of the Record;) and the said defendant
then offered evidence'to show that the said intestate was a captain in the United States cc.ps ,f engineers, and as such was
ordered to take charge and superintend the works on Fortress'
,Calhoun,'and took charge of, and continued,.the said work from
the 7th November, 1834, to-the 10th September, 1838.- and further
"fferedin. evidence, thp general'regulations of the War Department,
as follow,art. 67, sei. 14: "Where there isno agent for fortificAtions,
the superintending officer shall perform the duties of agent; while
perforziingsuch- duties, the rules and regulations for the government of such agents shall be applinable to him; and as compensatioh for the performanceof that extra-duty, he shall be allowed
for moneys experided by him, in the-construction of fortifications,

JANUA11Y TERM, 1842.

297

[The Unite4 Stati-. Eimn]
at the rate of two dollars per diem, dqring the continuance of such
disbursements, provided the whole amount of emolument shall-not
exceed two and a half per centumbn the sum expended." And,
further, that the said intestate, while thus employed, disbursed.
two hunadrbd and fourteen thousand three hundred and ninotytwo dollars'and sixt-one cents: that he was also'directed to take
charge of, and superintend the removal of a lighthouse iito Fortress Calhoun, in which service he disbursed onp tbousand one,
hundred and forty-three dollar-and thirteen cents: and fiirtherF,
that he was charged with the disbursement of, -and did disburse,
the sm of one thousand eight hundred and ninety-one dollars
and forty-three cents, for incidental expenses of fortifications beginning in the' year 1830; and that he purchased for the use .f
the Engineer Department, a qet of instruments !nd case, and the
department allowed him for tbe instruments, but ref! sed 'to allow
him for the-case amounting to ten dollars; and further, that the
pay and emoluments of the said 'intestate had been stopped by
the government of the United States, from the 31.st December,
1838, to- the 15th day of June, 1839, amounting -to one thousand
and fourteen dollars and ninety-five cents; and the defendant then
claimed credit
For compensation for disbursing money on account of
Fortress Calhoun from 7th November, 1834, to 10th
Septenber, 1838,up to whichtime he was incharge
of saidawork, inclusive, at $2 per day - $2,816 06
Of which this amount only had been allowed 234 00
Balance
- 2,582 00
For money disbursed on account for -removing lighthouse, &c.
.
... 21 64
For money disbursed for incidental expenses of fortifications
.
.
.
.
.
46 95
For case of instruments 10 00
For pay and emoluments, (marked B.,) copied at
page 29
. ..- 1,014 95
$3,689 26
For balance of account rendered 29th March, 1839 -

74 79
$3,764 05

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v.

aison.]

And further offered evidence that all the claims above stated,
except that for pay and emoluments, had been submitted to, and
rejected by, the accounting officer of the Treasury Department;
and further prdduced-and o fered in evidence the followir.g statement of th i state of the appropriations under which the disbursements were made.
The plaintiffs offered in evidence the Regulations of the War
Department of the 14th of March, 1835: "The proviso in the
adt of Congress passed March 3, 1835, entitled ' An act making
additional appropriations for the Delaware Breakwater, and
for certain harbours, and removing obstructions in and at the
mouth of certain rivers, for the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty-five;' and which prohibits the allowance of
extra compensation to officers of the army, has been submitted to the attorney-general for his opinion, and tha officer
has decided that it extends to, and prohibits the allowance of
all extra compensation of any kind whatever, for which provision is not made by law. Hereafter, therefore, no extra com"pensation will be allowed." And upon the aforegoing statements
it is submitted to the Court to say whether the defendant's intestate was entitled by law to the allowances claimed by him for
disbursements as abqve stated. If the Court is of opinion that he
is so entitled, then the judgment to be for the defendant; if otherwise, for the plaintiffs, for the amount appearing due by the
transcript.
F. S. K.Y, for the United States,
Jos. H. BRADLEY, for defendant.
Upon the statement of facts agreed, as above mentioned, the
Circuit Court pronounced the following opinion and judgment:"cAnd thereupon, upon the full consideratidn of the case stated
as aforesaid, the said Court is of opinion that the proyiso in the
act of the 3d March,4835, ch. 303, is only applicable to the disbursing of public money, appropriated by law duting.the session
of Congress in which that act wais passed; and it appearing
therein, to the satisfaction of the Court, that no part of the money
so as aforesaid disbursed by the said defendant, was appropriated
at the said session of Congress; the Court is also of opinion that

JANUARY TERM, i842:

299

[The United States-%. EIimsn.

the said intestate was entitled to the allowanee claimed by him
for the disbursements,as above stated, and do thereupon order
the judgment to be entered for the said defendant." To this
opinion an exception was taken by the plaintiffs, Vhich was
sealed by the Court-and made a part of the record.
Before considering the questions of law arising upon the agreed
statemnent, and upon the exception takeR to the opinion and judgment pronounced upon that statement, it is proper to advert to a
point which has been made, in limine, by the counsel fo&the defendant in error, and which, if decided as he has contended it
should be, would prove conclusive as tc hIe fate of this cause.' It
is insisted by the defendant's counsel that-this Court cannot take
cognisance of the present cause, for the reason that having'beeri
tried upon an agreed case, a writ of error will not lie to the
decision thereon. This positiof of the counsel is founded ypona
remark of Mr. Justice Blackstone in his Commentaries, which.
has been transferred to the work of Mr. Tidd, and to some other
compilations upon the practice in the English Courts of cbmmon
law. The passage in Blackstone, which will be found in his
chapter on the Trial by Jury, vol. 3, p. 377, Coleridge's edition,
is as follows: "Another method of finding a species of special
verdict, is, when the jury find a verdict generally for the plaintiff, but subject, nevertheless, to the opinion of the Court'above
on a special case stated by the counsel on both sides with regard
to the matter of law: which has this advantage over a special
verdict, that-it is attended with much less expense, and obtains a
speedier decision, the postea being stayed in the hands of the
officer of nisi prius, till the question is determined, and the verdict
is then entered for the plaintiff or defendant as the case mait
happen. But as nothing appears on the record but the geieral
verdict, the parties are precluded hereby from the benefit of a
writ of error, if dissatisfied with the judgment of the Court or
judge 'upon the point of law; which makes it~a thing to be
wished, that a method could be devised of either lessening the
expense of special verdicts, or else of entering the cause at length
upon the postea."
It is manifest from this quotation,.that the reason why, according to the practice in the English Courts,'a writof error will not be
allowed after a case agreed, is this, and this only; that in those

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Eliason.]

Courts, the agreed case never appears upon or is made a part of
thq record, and therefore there is no ground of error set forth,
upon which an appellate or revising tribunal can act. In the
language of Justice Blackstone, "nothing appears upon the record, but the general verdict; whereby the parties are precluded
from the benefit of a writ of error," -&c., "which makes it," says
the same learned judge, "a thing to be wished, that a method
could be devised, either of lessening the expenses of special verdicts, or else of entering the cause at large upon the postea."
The same rule in the English Courts of law, and the same consequence as resulting solely from their practice, may be seen in
the Treatise on Pleading, by Stephen, p. 92, where the author, in
speaking of the practice of taking special verdicts, and general
verdicts subject to a special case, remarks, that a special case is
not like. Lspecial verdict entered on record, and consequently a
'writ of error cannot be brought on this decision. There has been a
recent statute enacted in England, which, although it is not brought
sufficiently to the view of this Court to justify any direct inferences as to its terms or its bearing upon this particular question,
may have been designed to remedy the very evil pointed out by
Justice Blackstone. By a note to page 92, of Mr. Stephen's
Trealise, it is said to have been enacted by 3d and 4th William
the 4th, cap. 42, that where the parties on ipsue joindd can agree.
on a statement 6f facts, they may, by order. of a judge, draw lp
such statement in the form of a special case, for the judgment of
the Court, without proceeding to trial. -By the establislied practice anterior to this statutory provision, it was in the power of the
parties to agree upon a statement of the case; i. would seem
"reasonable
and probable, therefore, that the power given to the
judge, (as an exercise of his judicial functions,) to regulate the
statement, was designed to impart a greater solemnity and permanency. to the preparation of the proceeding, and to place it in
an attitude for the action of some revising power. But even
should a want of familiarity with the detail of English practice
induce the hazard of misapprehension ofits rules, or of the reasons in which they have their origin, the decisions of our own
Courts, and the long established practice of our own coufitry, are
regarded as having put the point under consideration entirely at
rest,

JANUARY TERM, 1842.

301

[The United States v. Eliason.]

,By the act of Congress of 1801, assuming the, government of
the District of Columbia, in virtue of the cession from Maryland
and Virginia,the laws of these states, and of course the proceedings
in their Courts as parts of these laws, were expressly recognised
-withinsuch portions of the District, respectively, as originally were
within the limits of the ceding states. See 3 Story's Laws, 2089;
The United States v. Simms, 1 Cranch, 255. At the period of the
cession, the practice is believed to have been well settled both in
Virginia and Maryland, that in trials at law where special or
agreed cases have been made, they have been signed by the
counsel as representing their clients, and, spread at large upon the
record as a part thereof; and as constituting the only legitimate
ground for the action of the Couri, and as'furnishing the regular
and proper test to be applied by an appellate or revising tribunal
to this action. 'The practice is believed to be the same at this
day; it has been repeatedly recognised by the decisions of this
Court; and, if ever heretofore seriously questioned, has never been
overruled. See Faw v. Robertson's Executor, 3 Cranch, 173;
Tucker v. Oxley, 5 Cranch, 34; Kennedy v. Brent, 6 Cranch, 187;
Brent v. Chapman, 5 Cranch, 358; and Shankland v. The Corporation of Washington, 5 Peters, 390. These are cases arising
within the District of Columbia, but the same practice has been
sanctioned in cases brought hither from without the District, as
will be seen in the decisions of Ingle v). Cooledge, 2 Wheat. 363,
and of Miller v. Nicholls, 4'Wheat. 311,. This Court, themfore, have no hesitancy in declaring, that the point of practice
raised by the defendant's counsel presents no objection to the
regularity in the mode of bringing this case before them.
In considering the exception taken to the opinion of the Circuit
Court; in relation to the act 'of Congr:ess of March 3d, 1835, the
order of the War Department, of March 13th, of the same year,
and the rights of the plaintiffs, and of the defendant, as connected
therewith, this Court have no difficulty in pronouncing the 'opinion and decision of the Circuit Court as altogether untenable.
The power of the executive to establish rules and regulations for
the government of the army, is undoubted. The very appeal
made by the defendant to the fourteenth section of the sixtyseventh article of the Army Regulations, is a recognition of this
VOL. XVI.-2 C

302

SUPREME COURT.
[The UnIted States v. Eiason.]

right. The power to establish implies, necessarily, .the power to
modify or repeal, or to create anew.
The Secretary of War is the regular constitutional organ of the
President for the.administration of the military establishment of
the nation ; and rules and orders publicly promulged through him
must be received as, the acts of the executive, and as such, be
binding upon all within the sphere of his legal and constitutional
authority.
Such regulations cannot be questioned or defied, because they
may be thought unwise or mistaken. The right of so considering
and treating the authority of the executive, vested as it is with
the command of the military and naval forces, could not be entrusted to officers of any grade inferior to the commander-in-chief;
its consequences, if tolerated, would be a complete disorganization of both the army and navy. In the present instance, the
order was adopted by the proper authority, and by the same authority promulged to every officer, through the regular officia
organ; and the question propounded to the Circuit Court was
neither.more nor less than this, whether a subordiiate officer of
the army, insisting upon a prior regulation, which he thinks either
is or ought 'to be in-force, shall obtain from the government
emoluments which a subsequent order from his superior had
warned him that it was not in his power to require? This qustion can need no argument for its solution. This Court are, therefore, of opinion that the Circuit Court have erred in allowing to
Captain Eliason, a per diem, as disbursing officer at Fortress
Calhoun, subsequently to. the 3d day of March, 1835. Under
the fourteenth section of the sixty-seventh article of the Army
Regulations, they do, therefore, reverse the decision of the Circuit
Court; and direct that a judgment be entered for the plaintiffs,
for the sum of two thousand six hundred dollars and seventy-five
cents, as claimed by them, together with their costs.

