COVINGTON BRIDGE CO. v. HAGER.
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

COVINGTON AND CINCINNATI BRIDGE COMPANY v.
HAGER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN
No. 37.

DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

Submitted October 17, 1906.-Decided November 5, 1906.

Circuit Courts of the United' States, until Congress shall otherwise provide, have no power to issue a writ of mandamus in an original action
for the purpose of securing relief by the writ, although the relief sought
concerns an aileged right secured by the Constitution of the United
States.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Shelley D. Rouse and Mr. Charlton B. Thompson for
plaintiff in error:
As to power of the Circuit Court to issue the writ:
There was no way in which the lower court could enforce
its jurisdiction except by a writ. of mandamus because jurisdiction 'could not be entertained in a direct suit to- recover
the money, and so no judgment could have been recovered.
Amendment XI to Const.; Coulter v. Weir, 127 Fed. Rep., 897.
The collection of the tax would not be enjoined by a Federal court purely because of its unconstitutionality, in the
absence of a distinct equity. Arkansas Bldg. Association v.
Madden, 175 U. S. 269; Pittsburg Ry. Co. v. Board of Public
Works, 172 U. S. 32.
A. writ of mandamus may be issued by a Federal court
wherever necessary to enforce its jurisdiction. U. S. Comp.
Stat. ยง 716; Barber Asphalt Co. v. Morris, Judge, 132 Fed. Rep.
945; Bath County v. Amy, 13 Wall. 244; Rosenbaum v. Bower,
120 U. S. 450; Graham v. Norton, 15 Wall. 166; Davis v. Cor,bin, 112 U. S. 36; Riggs v. Johnson County; 6 Wall. 166; Heine
v. Levee Com., 19 Wall. 655; Louisiana v. Jumel, 107 U. S.
711; Davenport v. City of Dodge, 105 U. S. 237; Curtis on
Jurisdiction of U. S. Courts, p. 168.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

Mr. N. B. Hays, Attorney General of the State of Kentucky,
Mr. John W. Ray and 'Mr. C. H. Morris, for defendant in error:
A United States Circuit Court has no power, or original
process, to mandamus a state auditor. Graham, Auditor, v.
Norton, 15 Wall. 427.
MR.

JUSTICE

DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case an original action in mandamus was begun
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Kentucky. It was brought by the Bridge Company to compel the Auditor of Public Accounts for the State
to issue his warrant on the state treasury for the amount of
a franchise tax collected under authority of sections 4079 and
4080 of the Kentucky Statutes. The return of the tax was
asked upon the ground that it levied a burden on the interstate commerce business of the Bridge Company, pertaining
exclusively to commerce between Kentucky and Ohio, and
was therefore repugnant to the Federal Constitution.
The Auditor appeared by counsel, and, by general demurrer, raised the question of the sufficiency of the allegations
of the petition, and by special demurrer challenged the jurisdiction of the court to entertain the action. The Circuit
Court, passing the question of jurisdiction, held that levying
the tax in question did not violate the commerce clause of
the Federal Constitution, as it was a tax upon property and
not upon the business of the company, sustained the general
demurrer and dismissed the petition.
We are of the opinion that the court below had no jurisdiction of this action. It has been too frequently decided in
this court to require the citation of the cases that the Circuit
Courts of the United States have no jurisdiction in original
cases of mandamus, and have only power to issue such writs
in aid of their jurisdiction in cases already pending, wherein
jurisdiction has been acquired by other means and by other
prooems.

COVINGTON BRIDGE CO. v. HAGER.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Many of these cases are collected in 4 Federal Statutes
Annotated) 503.
The question was before this court rqcently in Knapp v.
Lake Shor.e & Michigan Soulheri Raihvay Co., 197 U. S. 536, an
action by the Interstate Commerce Commissimi, by petition
for. mandamus in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Ohio, against the Lake Shore and
Michigan Southern Railway Company to compel it to file
i'eports required by the act to regulate interstate commerce.
It was argued for the Government that while decisions of this
court under the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20,
1 Stat. 73, and the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, had been
construed to confer no original jurisdiction in mandamus in
the United States courts, yet the act of March .3, "1887,'.24
Stat. 552, c. 373, in view of the modern development in proceedings by mandamus, should be held to confer the jurisdiction upon the Circuit Courts to entertain -original suits in
mandaimus. The contention was rejected and the prior cases
adhered to.
We deem it settled beyond controversy, until Congress
shall otherwise provide, that Circuit Courts of the United
States have no power to issue a wiit of mandamus in an
original action brought for the purpose of securing, relief by
the writ, and this result is .not changed because the relief
sought concerns an -alleged right secured by the Constitution
of the United States.
It follows that the Circuit Court should have. dismissed the
case for want of jurisdiction instead of. determining, it upon
the merits. The judgment dismissing the petition is therefore
modified so as to show that the case was dismissed foi want
of jurisdiction, and, as thus modified, the judgment is
Affirmed.

