OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
FLORIDA EX REL. ELLIS, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 9.

Argued March 2, 5, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

Where the state law provides that rates established by .the railroad commission are to be taken in all courts as prima facie just and reasonable,
and there is nothing in the record from which a reasonable deduction can
be made as to the cost of transportation, or the amount transported of the
single article in regard to which an intrastate -rate has been established
and complained of, or how that rate will affect the income of the railroad company, this court will not disturb the finding of the highest
court of the State that the rate was reasonable, and hold that it amounted
to a deprivation of the company's property without due process of law.
48 Florida, 146,affirmed.

ON December 17, 1903, the railroad commission of the State
of Florida, after notice and a hearing, made an order:
"That the rate to be charged by all the railroads and common
carriers doing business wholly or in part within the State of
Florida, for the transportation of phosphate from points in
the State to points within the State, shall not exceed one
cent per ton per mile.
"Provided; however, that where the rate of one cent per ton
per mile will raise any rate now in operation, that said rate 6f
one cent per ton per mile shall not be effective, but the rate as
now charged by the railroad companies is hereby adopted by
the Railroad Commissioners as their rate between such points.
"It is, therefore, ordered, that where a shipment of phosphate
shall pass over two or more railroads in reaching its destination
within the State of Florida, the initial line may charge one
and a half cents per ton per mile for the first ten miles which
said phosphate shall be hauled."
The railroad company in error, which was a party to the

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

proceedings before the commission, not complying with this
order, application was made on March 7, 1904, to the Supreme
Court of the State for a writ of mandamus to compel compliance,
and on October. 19, 1904, the peremptory writ was ordered
by that court, as prayed for. 48 Florida, 146. Thereupon
the railroad company sued out this writ of error.
No special findings of fact were made by the Supreme Court
but in its opinion it said:
"There is a total lack of positive proof that the commi. .ion
rate is materially less than that now charged. The company
proves merely that its books do not show that any local phosphate had been carried by it, but does not show what rate it
charges on the interstate shipments of phosphate. There
is some showing of the expensiveness of handling phosphate
for foreign shipments, much of which would not enter into the
local or intrastate business, should such be carried, but nothing
is shown from which this court can say that the rate fixed by
the commission is unreasonable. The evidence offered might
tend to show that the rate is unnecessary or that it is speculative, but such questions the court is not called upon to decide.
"Taking the figures from the brief filed by the respondent,
we find that the local business alone produces a net earning
of at least 3% on the total value of the road in Florida, charg-.
ing against such income the whole of the taxes. While a
State is iot permitted to offset local business against interstate business, and to justify low local rates by reason of the
profitableness of the latter, yet the interstate and foreign
business may and should be considered in determining the
proportion of the value of the property of the company assignable to local business. There is no proper showing of the interstate and foreign business, so that we may determine on what
fraction of the whole value of the property in Florida the company might be entitled to earn an income from local business;
there is, however, a showing that the interstate and foreign
business is large and, on a proper showing and a proper provOL. cci-I 7

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

portioning of the service between domestic and foreign business,
this percentage of net income would be largely increased.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Under the burden of proof cast by the law upon the respondent, we find that the rate in question is not unreasonable."
Mr. John E. Hartridge, for plaintiff in error: 1
The Federal question 'involved may be presented in two
several ways, and is properly divided: First. Whether the
plaintiff in error is earning its operating expenses, taxes, and
a reasonable return on the money invested. Second. Whether
a reasonable rate is not understood to be a rate reasonable as
an entirety? In other words, if a rate is reasonable for a long
haul and unreasonable for a short haul, is not the rate as an
entirety an unreasonable rate? The question involved is,
whether plaintiff in error in the operation of that pQrtion of
its line situated entirely in Florida has a right to earn sufficient
revenue from the state passenger and freight business done
upon said division, -to pay operating expenses, taxes, and a
reasonable return upon its investment?
The Florida railroad commission, in fixing future rates,
does not act as a court. The power to fix future rates is legislative and not judicial. I. C. C. v. C. N. 0. & T. P. Ry., 167
U. S. 499.
The Florida railroad commission, in fixing future rates,
acts in a legislative capacity. Whatever judicial power it
may have in regard to other matters, it does not act judicially
when it assumes to fix rates. IV.U. T. Co. v. Myatt, 98 Fed.
Rep. 341.
I Even if the legislature of Florida had denominated the commission a court, it would not be conclusive as to the nature
of the jurisdiction. and powers conferred upon it. That question is not to be determined by any terminology employed in
the act.
I See also argument in Nos. 10, 11, argued simultaneously herewith, post,
p. 262.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Compensation implies three things-payment of the cost of
service, interest on bonds, and then some dividend. Southern
Pac. Co. v. Railroad Commissioners, 78 Fed. Rep. 262.
An ordinance has been held void under the Fourteenth
Amendment, as depriving the company of its property without
due process of law which requires a street railroad company
to reduce its rates, "when the road was only making yearly
net earnings of 3.3 per cent., to 4.5 per cent. on its bona fide
investment, and paying 5 per cent. interest on its bonds, in
a city where the 6urrent rate of interest on first mortgage
real estate security is 6 per cent." Milwaukee El. Ry. v.
Milwauk-ee,,87 Fed. Rep. 577.
Mr. J. M. Barrs, with whom Mr. W. H. Ellis, Attorney
General of the State of Florida, was on the brief, for defendant
in error.'
MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
Passing all matters of a local nature, in respect to which the
decision of the state court is final, the Federal question is
whether the order of the railroad commission, sustained by
the Supreme Court of the State, deprived the company of its
property without due process of law or denied to it the equal
protection of the law. The testimony taken before the commission was not preserved, but by the" law of the State the
rates established by such commission are to be. taken in all
courts as prima facie just and reasonable. Laws Florida,
1899, pp. 76, 82, Chap. 4700, See. 8. We start, therefore,
with the presumption in favor of the order.
The testimony on the hearing of the application in the Supreme Court is, however, in the record. That court, in the
exercise of its original jurisdiction of mandamus cases, determines questions of fact as well as of law. State ex, rel. v.
County Commissioners of Suwannee County, 21 Florida, 1.
I For abstract, of argument, see p. 266, post.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

While it did not 'make any distinct findings of fact, yet its
deductions from the testimony are clearly indicated by the
quotations from its opinion. If it be said that in the absence
of special findings of fact it is the duty of this court to examine
the testimony upon which the judgment was entered, it is
very clear that there was no sufficient evidence presented to
that court to justify a refusal to enforce the order of the railroad commission.
And here we face this situation: The order of the commission
was not operative upon all local rates but only fixed the rate
on a single article, to wit, phosphate. There is no evidence of
the amount of phosphates carried locally; neither is it shown
how much a change in the rate of carrying them will affect
the income, nor how much the rate fixed by the railroads for
carrying phosphate has been changed by the order of the commission. There is testimony tending to show the gross income
from all local freights and the value of the railroad property,
,and also certain difficulties in the way of transporting phosphates owing to the lack of facilities at the terminals. But
there is nothing from which we can determine the cost of such
transportation. We are aware of the difficulty which attends
proof of the cost of transporting a single article, and in order
to determine the reasonableness of a rate prescribed it may
sometimes be necessary to accept as a basis the average rate
of all transjortation per ton per mile. We shall not attempt
to indicate to what extent or in what cases the inquiry must
be special and limited. It is enough for the present to hold
that there is in the record nothing from which a reasonable
deduction can be made as to the cost of transportation, the
amount of phosphates transported, or the effect which the
rate established by the commission will have upon the income.
Under these circumstances it is impossible to hold that there
was error in the conclusions reached by the Supreme Court
of the State of Florida, and its judgment is
Affirmed.

