OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellants.

203 U. S.

LANDRAM v. JORDAN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No.-179. Argued October 9, 1906.-Decided October 22. 1906.
Testator created a trusf for his children including therein all of his property except one parcel, the income whereof was to go to a niece for life,
from the propthe trustees to make such income up to a specified s.-',n
erty in the gene'ral trust. The general trust was declared void as creating a perpetuity but not the trust for the niece. The children appealed
claiming that the trust for the niece was also void. Held that
One not appealing cannot, in thiscourt, go beyond supporting the judgment and opposing every assignment of e'ror, and therefore the niece
could not endeavor to sustain the validity of the trust as a whole.
The trust for the niece was not illegal, and was not so intimaqtely connected
with the failing trust as to fail with it;* but the decree was modified so
that the income could only be made up to the specified sum from income
from property in the jurisdiction.
An objection that a person should have been made a party to a bill of review comes too late when the existence of that person does not appear
of record.
25 App. D. C., 291, modified and affirmed.

THE facts arc stated in the opinion.

Mr.John J. Hemphill, with whom Mr. James Hemphill was
on the brief, for appellants:
The testator violated the law of this jurisdiction 'in placing
the title to Washington real estate in the hands of trustees
without power to alienate prior to 1928. Ould v. Washington
Hospital,95 U. S. 303, 312. See also Code of the District, and
as to rule in other jurisdictions see Jones v. Habersham, 107
U. S. 174; McArthur v. Scott, 113 U. S.340, 381. The rule
applies to the possibility of non-vesting. Proprietorsv. Grant,
3 Gray, 142, 153; 1 Perry on Trusts, § 380; Sears v. Putnam,

LANDRAM v. JORDAN.
203 U. B.

Argument for Appellants.

102 Massachusetts, 5; Barnum v. Barnum, 26 Maryland, 119.
It applies to equitable estates anid trusts. 1 Perry on Trusts,
§ 382; Bigelow v. Cady, 171 Illinois, 209; Andrews v. Lincoln,
95 Maine, 541. If the suspension be for a fixed period without
reference to a life or lives, such period cannot exceed twentyone years flat. Page on Wills, § 632; Andrews v. Lincoln, 95
Maine, .541; Kimball v. Crocker, 53 Maine, 263.
Under the-New York statute limiting the suspension to two
lives in being, as well as under similar statutes of other States,
it is held that if a gross or absolute term of years instead of
lives is taken as the measure of suspension, the statute is
violated however short the term may be.- Beckman v. Bonsor,
23 N. Y. 298, 316; Rice v. Barrett, 102 N. Y. 161; Cruikshank
v. Home for the Friendless, 113 N. Y. 337. See also Re Walkerley Estate, 108 California, 627; DeWall v. Lawson, 61 Wisconsin, 473.
The rule is one of law and not of construction. Gray on
Perpetuities, § 629; Pearles v. koseley, 5' App. Cas. (H. of L.)
714, 719; Hasnan v. Pearse, L, R., 7 Ch. App. 275, 283.
For cases where provisions similar to those in suit were
held bad, see Fidelity Trust Co. v. Lloyd, 78 S. W. Rep. (Ky.)
898; Andrews v. Lincoln, 95 Maine, 541; Coleman v. Coleman, 65
S. W. Rep. (Ky.) 832; Phillips v. Heldt, 71 N. E. Rep. (Ind.)
320; Speakman v. Speakman, 8 Hare, 180; Kimball v. Crocker,
53 Maine, 263. '
The trust 'covering the'Washington realty being void, the
provision for the appellee 'falls within it. Knox v. Jones, 47
N. Y. 393, 398; Pitsel v. Schneider, 216 Illinois, 17; Lawrence
v. Smith, 163 Illinois, 149; Harris v. Clark, 7 N. Y. 242, 257;'
Barnum v. Barnum, 26 Maryland, 19; Coster v. Lorillard, 14
Wend. (N" Y.) 265; Re Christie, 133 N. Y. 473; Amory v. Lord,
9 N. Y. 403;.28 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law'; 2d ed., 866.
The trust created by the tcsthtor is not merely a part 6f
the machinery for. accomplishing a subsequent intention
towards any objects of his bounty, but was primarily created
and intended for the purpose of conserving this pro])pe:ty and
holding it together for a fixed period without reference to

OCTOBER TERM,- 1906.
Argument for Appellants.

203 U. S.

consequences. The disposition of the income was not a
necessary element of the trust. It was an incident and an
outgrowth, and of course, dependent upon it.
As the attempted trust 'embodies the general scheme or
plan of the testator as to his Washington real estate, the
direction to his trustees to pay appellee forty dollars per
month-being a part of the monthly income of the trust
property-rests upon the void trust, so that it cannot be-established without reliance upon the void trust.
The cases cited by the court below, and in the appellee's
brief can be distinguished.
Mary. B. Kearney who is a necessarjy party has not been
brought into court.
Any person, not a party to the original suit, who becomes
interested in the subject-matter in controversy by operation
of law, or under a distinct claim not derived from one of the
parties, must be.made a party to the bill of review, and is not
bound by the proceedings under it, unless he be made a party.
Debell v. Foxworthy's Heirs, 9 B. Mon. (Ky.) 228, 231. All
whose interests arc to be affected by a decree should be made
parties to a bill of review to reverse it. Turner v. Berry, 3
Gilman (Ill.), 541, 543, citing Bank of U. S. v. White, 8 Peters,
262, 268; Story's Eq. Pleading, 420; Daniel Chan. P. and Pr.,
6th ed., § 1580; Singleton v. Singleton, 8 B. Mon. 349.
Mrs. Kearney became entitled to dower in an undivided
one-half of the real estate in the District of Columbia upon
the filing of the decree of June 27, 1900, declaring the will
invalid as to the real estate in the District, and was a necessary party to the proceeding in the lower court. 2 Am. &
Eng. Enc. Law, 1st ed., 264; Story's Equity Pl. § 240; Turner v. Berry, supra; Creed v. Lancaster Bank, 1 Ohio St. 1.
Appellee's contention that the court below was without
jurisdiction to entertain the original suit can not be raised
by a bill of review. i6 Cyc. 529; Friley v. Hendricks, 27
Mississippi, 412, 418; Donaldson v. Nellis, 108 Tennessee,
638;. Berdanatti"v. Sexton, 22 Tenn. Chan. 699, 703.

LANDRAM v. JORDAN.
203 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

Mr. Charles F. Wilson, with whom Mr. Frank W. Hackett
was on the brief, for appellee:.
As to the validity of the annuity for Miss Jordan, the trust
is valid; it is separate from the other trusts and can be upheld even if they are invalid; it is not essential to the general
scheme. Manice v. Manice, 43 N. Y. 307; Oxley v. Lane,. 35
N. Y. 349; Harrisonv. Harrison,36 N. Y. 54; Tiers v. Tiers,
98 N. Y. 568; Van Schuyer v. Mulford, 59 N. Y. 432. The
trust itself is valid; there was no intention to create a perpetuity. -A will need not in express terms provide that the
particular trust for each beneficiary shall cease upon his or
her death. It is enough that a necessary implication exists
that such was the testator's intention. Montignani v. Blade,
145 N. Y. 111; Estate oj Hendy, 118 California, 659; Gray on
Perpetuities, § 201.
Mr. Frank Sprigg Perry on behalf of Mary B. Kearney,
petitioner:
On a bill of review all parties interested should be made
parties defendant. Friley v. Hendricks, 27 Mississippi, .412;
Ralston v. Sharon, 51 Fed. Rep. 714; Shields v. Barrow, 17
How. 130, 140; Mallow v. Hinde, 12 Wheat. 193, 198; Cameron
v. McRoberts, 3 Wheat. 591; Williams v. Bankhead, 19 Wall.
563.

Affirmance of decree in this case would reduce petitioner's
dower interest in the, property in the District of Columbia,
and, therefore, she is an indispensable party. Shepard v. Manhattan Ry. Co., 117 N. Y. 446; Sykes v. Chadwick, 18 Wall.
145; Rogers v. Potter, 32 N. J. L. 78.
Under the laws of Maryland in force in this District at
testator's death, the trust was a perpetuity and void. 2
Kilty's Laws of Maryland, Ch. 101, subeh. 1; Abert's Digest
Dist. of Col. Laws, Ch. 70, § 2; see § 1023 D. C. Code;
Ould v. Hospital, 95 U. S. 304, 312; Hopkins v. Grimshaw,
165 U. S. 342, 355; Barnitz, lessee, v. Casey, 7 Cr. 456,
469.

OCTOBER TEAM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

The invalidity of 'this trtist is not affected by the clause
which prorides' that the devisees shall receive the net rents
arising from the respective houses and lots herein.devised to
them respectively upon the happening of certain events.
Were this simply a passive trust from and after the happening of the event therein named, it might be contendeO that
the rule against perpqtuities did not apply. This contention
would be based on the groincL that th estates would coalesce..
'The jord "net" takes the case Out of the domain of passive
trustjs and makes it clearly an active trust. The word "net"
means bbtaine'd after' deducting all expenses. Standard
Dictionary; 'Bou'vier's Law Dict., Rwle's Revision;' St. John
v.; Brie Railway Co., 22 Wall. 137, 148. As to what is an
active trust see Atambaugh's Estate, 135 Pa. St. 597; Meacham
Y>"'Steel, 93 Illinois, 145; Perry on Trusts, § 305, Girard.Life.Ins.
Col v. Chambers, 46,'Pa. St. 486; 26 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law,
143; Slater v. "Ridderforth,25 App. D. C. 497; MacCarthy v.
Tichenor, 29 Wash.-L. R. 442.
MR.

USTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal 'from a decree, of the Court of Appeals Qf
the District- of Columbia affirming 'a decree 0f. the' Supreme
Court upon a bill of review: brought by' Gabriella K. Jordan,
the appellee. 'The deelee, under' review was, rendered in a
suit for the construction of -the will of Thomas Kearney and
for the determination of the' validity of a trust created' by it,
so. far as the .same concerned land in' the District of Columbia."
That decree declared the trust 'bad as .attempting to create a
perpetuity. Under' the bill ,of re-vjiw the decree was modified, on demurrer, to the extent of the interest of GAbriella
K.:Jordan, and the trust was declared valid .as to hn 25'
App. D. C. 291. The. executorg' of the testator's heir and, a
daughter of the 'said heir appeatlcl to this court.
,Thomas Kearney died on July 5, 1896, The will disposes
of land-in various places. 'In item 3 it enumerates the tes-

LANDRAM v. JORDAN.
203:U. S.

_Opinion of the Court.

tator's property in Washington. In item.'6, it devises this
and other, property upon a trust .to be continued 'until January 1, 1928, and there and elsewhere, with the following
exception, makes a fund from the Washington rents and..
j)rofits to be disposed of as directed in the will. Item 6 is as
follows:
"I hereby authorize and direct that my said trustees shall
during the natural life of my boved niece, Gabriella 'K,
Jordan,' pay over to her regularly each month, as soon as c6llected, all rents and revenues' collected or deived from that
-certain property described, in the third item hereof.as lot No.
611 'M' Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.,;, but, in case said
rents and-revenues shall at any time be less than the sum
s
of
forty dollars for any one or more months; then my' said trus,tees are. hereby authorized and instructed to add to the sum,
so collected a sufficient amount to make the .said amount
of forty dollars foreach and every :.month; it being my de-.
sire that she shall have a regular 'iicome of at leastk forty
dollars per. month, and that thie same shall be -paid over to
"her monthly; but if the income deri-ed from said premises
shall' amount to a sum'in excess of forty -dollars
monthshe shall have the whole thereof."
Item 7 directs the trustee-to letall the Washington prop-'
erty except 611. M street, and.out of the rents to pay ninety
dollars a month to the testator's daughter,
onStance K.
Vertner, as ordered in item 5; the' residue, so far as necessary, to be applied t6 the sdpport and education*?of her three
children, named, with f urther pi ovisions., Item 8 gives tfie
remainder in fee of 611 M street to the .testator's grandson,
provided that if Gabriella Jordan dies before Jaiiuary 1, 1928,
he shall only receive the rents and profits, and if she dies before the grandson reaches the. -age of. twenty-two the..rents
shall be disposed of as provided, in ,item 7 a to :other Washington property. In item 21 the testator, "for fear that'
there may be some difficulty in 'construing the different provisions" of the will, states his interftion that all the money
.per

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

arising from the Washington rents, "except that which is to
go to Gabriella K. Jordan, shall be placed in a common fund
for the payment (1) of taxes, insurance and repairs on said
property and of the premises at Luray, Virginia; (2) of (90)
ninety dollars per month to my said daughter, Constance K.
Vertner during her natural life; (3) for the aupport, education and maintenance of my said three Vertner grandchildren
until Lillie K. Vertner shall have arrived at the age of nineteen years, and until Edmund K. and Thomas K. 'shall have
arrived at the age of twenty-two years, respectively."
The persons in whose favor were made the provisions which
were adjudged bad were one of the testator's heirs, his daughter, Constance K. Vertner, and the children of Constance.
The daughter plealed that the other heir, Edmund Kearney, also provided for in the will, died, leaving her his heir,
that the trust was bad, and, by implication, that she was
entitled to the property which it embraced. She now is
dead. By the original decree the whole trust fund, including
that given to Gabriella Jordan, went to the testator's heirs as
property undisposed of by the will. The only person dissatisfied with that decree was Gabriella Jordan, and on the
other hand the executor and children of Constance are the
only appellants from the dectee on review. According to
the rule that has been laid down in this court, Gabriella, as
she did not appeal, cannot go beyond supporting the decree
and opposing every assignment of error. Mount Pleasant v.
Beckwith, 100 U. S. 514, 527; The Stephen Morgan, 94 U. S.
599; Chittenden v. Brewster, 2 Wall. 191, 196; Field v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 194 U. S.- 618, 621. We assume
this rule to be correct. Although her counsel attempted to
argue the validity of the trust as'a whole, and other questions, we assume, without deciding, the decree to be unimpeachable and -right, except so far as appealed from. Therefore we shall confine ourselves to considering whether thegift to Gabriella is so intimately connected with the failing
icheme as to fail with it.

LANDRAM v. JORDAN.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It would be a. strong thing to say that we gather from this
will an intent that, if the trust so far as it concerns the testator's descendants should fail because they prefer to take the
property by intestacy free from the limitations of the will,
therefore the one gift outside his family should be defeated
also. The trust is not a metaphysical entity or a Prince
Rupert's drop which flies to pieces if broken in any part. It
is a provision to benefit descendants and a niece. There is
no general principle by which the benefits must stand or fall
together. It is true that all the Washington property was
given to the trustees in one clause and that a part -of the
scheme in favor of the testator's grandchildren was the creation of a fund from the rents. But, as is stated in item 21,
611 TM street was excepted from the scheme, and the whole
income of this lot, or in other words an equitable estate in the
specified land, is given to Gabriella Jordan for life by item 6.
If that were all we see no reason for a doubt that that gift
would be good, whether the gifts to the other beneficiaries
were good or not. The fact that the testator's daughter takes
all the rest of the property instead of her childien getting a
postponed interest in a part, is no ground for denying to the
niece the life estate given to her in an identified and excepted
piece of land. It does not make the case any worse that a
part of the property thus going to the testator's daughter is
the remainder in the' estate given to his niece.
The appellants lay hold of the instructions to the trustees
to add to the rents enough to make Gabriella's income up to
forty dollars a month, and argue as if the gift were in substance only a gift of forty dollars a month from a fund that
cannot be established. Such is not the fact. The gift is primarily and in any event a gift of the income of 611 M street.
But whatever may be the fate of the rest of the trust we see
nothing to hinder the trustees from keeping the income up
to forty dollars from the other property devised to them. Of
course they could not derive income from property nof included
in the trust, and only the property included is charged with

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

203 U. S.

the liability. The decree may be modified by inserting after
the words "against his entire estate" the words "in the District of Columbia."
It is objected in argument, although not in the pleadings,
that the widow of Edmund Kearney has a right of dower in
the Washington estate which descended to him, and that she
should have been made party to the bill of review. The fact
of the widow's existence does not appear of record as against
the appellee, and we agree with the Court of Appeals that
the objection is made too late.
Decree affirmed.

FIDELITY MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
CLARK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COUPT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT

OF TEXAS:

No. 25. "Argued'Octhober16,:'I, l,-190.-ecided October 29,1906.

A man and his sister conspired, to defraud an insurance company; the
former having insured his life disappeared and the latter as beneficiary
filed pr6of of death,' brought, suit, and recovered judgment after verdict by a jury; the company defended on 'ground that insured was alive
and claim was frtiuduilent. The judgment was affirmed and, the company paid the money into court. In order to have the suit prosecuted
the beneficiary had made contingent fee contracts with attorneys which
had been filed and the money was distributed from the registry of the
court 'to hei:: and the various parties 'holding assignments of interests
thercin.. Th'e insurance company, having afterwards found the. insured
was alive, sued in equity the beileficiary and also her counsel and their
assignecs to recover the money received by them respectively. "No
charge 'of- frau'd was made against any0ioe except 'the beneficiary, but
notice of the fraud was charged against all by virtue of' the company's
defense. The defendants, claimed that under the Seventh Amendment
the question of death of person insured could. not again be litigated.
The bill was dismissed as to all except the benefidiary.

