OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

State cannot be questioned. It is imposed in the exercise of
one of the public rights of the State, the establishment, maintenance ard care of its highways. The extent of this right is
illustrated by West Chicago Railroad Co. v. Chicago, 201 U. S.
506, and cases cited.
Judgment affirmed.

CHATTANOOGA FOUNDRY AND PIPE WORKS v. CITY
OF ATLANTA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 94.

Argued November 9, 12. 1006.-Decided December 3, 1906.

By express provision of the act of July 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 209, a city is a
person within the meaning of section 7 of that act, and can maintain
an action against a party to a combination unlawful under the act by
reason of which it has been forced to pay a price for an artick. above
what it is reasonably worth.
A person whose property is diminished by a payment of money wrongfully
induced is injured in his property.
Where Congiess has power to make acts illegal it can authorize a recovery
for damage caused by those acts although suffered wholly within the
boundaries of one State.
Although the s:ao may not have been so connected with the unlawful
combination as to be unlawful, the motives and inducements to make it
may be so affect(d by the combination as to constitute a wrong.
The five year limitation in § 1047, Rev. Stat., does not apply to suits brought
under § 7 of the act of July 2, 1890, but by the silence of that act the
matter-is left under § 721, Rev. Stat., to the local law.
The three year limitation in § 2773, Tennessee Code, for actions for injuries to personal or real property, applies to injuries falling upon some
object more definite than the plaintiff's total wealth and the general
ten year limitation in § 2776 for all actions not expressly provided for
controls action's of this nature brought under § 7 of the act of July 2, 1890.
127 Fed. Rep. 23; 101 Fed. Rep. 900, affirmed.

THE

facts are state() in the opinion.

CHATTANOOGA FOUNDRY v. ATLANTA.
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. Frank Spurlock, with whom Mr. Foster V. Brown was

on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The city of Atlanta has no cause of action under the Antitrust Act.
While the declaration alleges that the defendant in error
was injured in its business of supplying water to its inhabitants,
the averment can only mean that it was injured by the payment of an excessive price for the pipe bought to extend its
water mains. There is no allegation showing an injury of
any other character either to the business or property of the
defendant in error. The action can only be maintained, if at
all, on the ground that the defendant in error, as a consumer,
has been compelled to pay more for the goods it purchased by
reason of the fact that the seller'was a party to an illegal combination. Brown & Allen v. Jacob's Pharmacy, 115 Georgia,
429; Boutwell v. Marr, 71 Vermont, 1; Doremrvs v. Hlennessy, 176 Illinois, 608; Mogul S. S. Co. v. McGregor, L. R. 15
Q. B. Div. 476; S. C., 21 Q. B. Div. 544; S. C., 23 Q. B. Div. 598.
From'the nature and purpose of a combination to. restrain
and monopolize, it was expected that every contract, combination or conspiracy to restrain trade or to monopolize the
same would include among its purposes that of an assault upon
the business of independent rival traders. For such action is
necessary to complete the illegal scheme.
. So by §§ 1 and 2 of the, act Congress struck at the initial
step towardsc the creation of these injurious combinations by
imposing heavy penalties for joining in them, and by § 7
penalties, in the nature of treble damages and attorneys' fees,
were provided to protect the independent trader by giving
him a right of action if injured in his business or property by
the combination of those endeavoring to create the monopoly.
There is not only no language in the act from which it could
be inferred that Congress meant to protect the business of
those engaged in trade wholly within the States, but Addyston
Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211, 247, held that
Congress has no jurisdiction over that part of a combination

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

or agreement which relates to commerce wholly within the
State and which is subject alone to the jurisdiction of the
State. Whenever, therefore, the business of a waterworks
company, or the like, is injured by a combination or monopoly,
redress therefor must be sought under the laws of the State
under which the business is carried on.
To extend the operation of the act so as to give a right of
action, under the seventh section thereof, to every consumer
seeking to recover back, as excessive, a part of the price paid
for goods bought and shipped from another State, would include a class of actions not contemplated by Congress, and
not necessary to insure competition in interstate trade. Such
damages could only arise from fraud or deceit in making the
sale, and would be governed by the laws of the State under
which the contract was made and to be performed. Montague
& Co. v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38; Gibbs v. McNeeley, 118 Fed.
Rep. 127; Whitwell v. Tobacco Co., 125 Fed. Rep. 545.
Defendant in error contracted for. the purchase of pipe at
an agreed price fixed in the contract. This agreement was
legal and binding under the laws of Georgia, where it was
made and to be performed, notwithstanding the fact that the
selling company was a party to a contract in restraint of trade,
which was illegal under the laws of the United States. National
Distilling Co. v. Cream City Importing Co., 86 Wisconsin, 352;
Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540.
The Anti-trust Act is.not a legal method of regulating prices.
While denying to interstate traders the right to form combinations that would have the power to prescribe prices,
Congress did not undertake itself to do, either directly or indirectly, what it prohibited to others. An action for threefold
damages will only lie where there has been an actual, direct
injury inflicted by something done in violation of the act
(Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 194 U. S. 48, 70), and
this injury must have been done to the person suing in his
business of interstate commerce, or in his property while the
subject of -interstate commerce.

CHATTANOOGA FOUNDRY v. ATLANTA.
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Under the statute of limitations of Tennessee applicable to
this case the suit is barred either in one year as a statute
penalty or in three years as an injury to property for tort.
State v. House, 2 Shannon's Cases, 610; State v. Shaw, 113
Tennessee, 536; Hogan v. Chattanooga, 2 Tennessee, 339;
Greenwood v. State, 6 Baxt. 567. 576; Huntington v. Attrill, 146
U. S. 657, 667; Merchants' Bank v. Bliss, 35 N. Y. 412; Stokes
v. Stickney, 96 N. Y: 326.
A statute may not be penal in the international sense of that
term, but penal within the meaning of the statutes of limitations applicable to private actions only. The following cases,
brought to enforce statutory liability, were held to be penal
actions within the meaning of the statutes of limitations barring
civil suits for statute penalties. Beadle v. Railroad Company,
48 Kansas, 379; 51 Kansas, 252; Savings Bank v. Bailey, 66
N. H. 334; Gridley v. Barnes., 103 Illinois, 211; Baker Wire.Co.
v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 106*Iowa, 239; A., T. & S. F. Ry.
Co. v. Tanner, 19 Colorado, 559; State Savings Bank v. Johnson,
18 Montana, 440; Raticon v. Terminal Assn., 114 Fed. Rep. 666;
Davis v. Mills, 113 Fed. Rep. 678; S.C., 121 Fed. Rep. 703;
Patterson v. Wade, 115 Fed. Rep. 770; Goodridge v. Union
Pac. Ry. Co., 35 Fed. Rep. 35; Barry v. Edmonds, 116 U*S. 550,
565; Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Humes, 115 U. S. 522; Minneapolis
Ry. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 35.
If the penalty, or recovery in excess of compensatory damages, is imposed for a failure to pay a debt, and not in the
exercise of the police power which concerns the interest of the
public, then the statute is unconstitutional. Gulf, C. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Railroad Co. v. Matthews, 174
U. S. 96; Railroads v. Crider, 91 Tennessee, 490.
The suit was brought not only to recover treble damages
for the injury sustained, but attorneys' fees besides. The
actual damages as found by the jury were $1,500; but the
judgment rendered was for $7,000, or nearly five times the
damages actually suffered. This judgment can be sustained
upon no other principle than that declared in the cases cited-

CCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

that is, vindictive or punitive damages, and imposed under the
police power of the government for the purpose of deterring
others from the commission of similar offenses.
If not barred, however, as a statute penalty in one year,,
the action is within § 2747, providing that all wrongs and
injuries to the property and person, in which money only is
demanded as damages, shall be commenced within three years
and redressed by an action on the case.
As to what will support an action on the case and fall within
this provision see Love v. Hogan, 5 Yer. 290; Allison v. Tyson,
5 Hum. 449; Rosson v. Hancock, 3 Sneed, 434; Gwinther v.
Gerding, 3 Head, 198; Bank v. Doughty, 2 Tennessee, 584;1
Railroad v. Guthrie, 10 Lea, 432; Ramsey v. Temple, 3 Lea,
252; Rhea v. Hooper, 5 Lea, 390; James & Co. v. Bank, 105
Tennessee, 1. The cases cited by Court of Appeals of Tennessee can be distinguished and that court erred in holding that
this action fell under the ten year statute.
An action may be in the form of debt where the statutory'
liability is certain, or may be made so from the face of the
statute. But while such actions are in form debt, they are
criminal in their nature and within the statute of limitations
relating to criminal proceedings. Civil liabilities founded on
sta.. ates may be in the nature of debt, or contract, but an action
to enforce such liability whatever its form, would be barred
by the statute applicable to contracts; and limitations applicable would always depend on the nature of the liability
declared or imposed. Bagley v. Shoffach, 43 Arkansas, 377;
Chaffee v. United States, 18 Wall. 516; Stockwell v. United
States, 18 Wall. 531. Bullard v. Bell, 1 Mason, 243, is inapplicable. See Householder v. City of. Kansas, 83 Missouri, 488,
495; Topley v. Forbes, 2 Allen, 24; Addison on Torts, 49;
Knowlton v. Ackley, 8 Cush. 97; Stearns v. A. & St. L. Ry. Co.,
46 Missouri, 114; Pollard v. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520, 527; Hightower v. Fitzpatrick, 42 Alabama, 600. And see also as to
action on the case being the proper remedy Aldrich v. Howard,
7 R. L 199, 213; Sand/ord v. Haskell, 50 Maine, 86; Reed v.

CHATTANOOGA FOUNDRY v. ATLANTA.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Northfield, 13 Pick. (Mass.) 99; Morrison v. Bedell, 22 N. H.
238; Russell v. L. & N. Ry. Co., 93 Virginia, 325; Mount v.
Hooter, 58 Illinois, 246; Boyn v. Smith, 17 Wend. 88; Beatly v.
Barnes, 8 Cr. 98, 108.
Actions for liabilities arising out of duties imposed or acts
prohibited by statutes are within the limitation imposed on
all similar actions. Metropolitan Ry. Co. v. District of Columbia, 132 U. S. 1, 13; Carrollv. Green, 92 U. S. 509; Campbell v.
Haverhill, 155 U. S. 610.
The liabilities created by the statutes .authorizing the
organization of national banks, or for the infringement of
patent rights, or rights founded on other acts of Congress,
have never been treated as specialties, even though sometimes
clearly in the nature of debt. McDonald v. Thompson, 184
U. S. 72; Cockrill v. Butler, 78 Fed. Rep. 680; Stephens v.
Overstolz, 43 Fed. Rep. 465.
Mr. Churchill P. Goree and Mr. George Westmoreland, with
whom Mr. Linton A. Dean and Mr. J. L. Foust were on the
brief, for (lefendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action by the city of Atlanta (Georgia), against
t o Tennessee corporations, members of the trust or combination held unlawful in Addyston Pipe and Steel Co. v.
United States, 175 U. S. 211. The object of the suit is to recover threefold damages for alleged injury to the city "in its
business or property" under § 7 of the act, of July 2, 1890,
c. 647, 26 Stat. 209. The alleged injury is that the city, being
engaged in conducting a system of waterworks, and wisling
to buy iron water pipe, was led, by reason of the illegal arrangements between the members of the trust, to purchase the pipe
from the Anniston Pipe and Foundry Company, an Alabama
corporation., at a price much above what was reasonable or
the pipe was worth. The purchase was made after a simulated

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

competition, at. a price fixed by the. trust and embracing a
bonus to be divided among the members. The plaintiffs in
error demurred to the declaration, and pleaded not guilty, and
that the action accrued more than one year and more than
three years before the suit was brought, relying upon §§ 2772
and 2773 of the Code of Tennessee, the Eastern District of
Tenncssee being the district in which the suit was brought.
The deinurrer' to the declaration was overruled and the plaintiff had a verdict and judgment in the Circuit Court. The
verdict was for the difference between the price paid and the
market or fair price that the city would have had to pay under
natural conditions had the combination been out of the way,
together with an attorney's fee. The judgment trebled the
daniages. It. was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
the plaintiffs in error having saved their rights at every stage.
The discussions of the law took place before the jury trial
was reached. They will be found in 127 Fed. Rep. 23 and
101 Fed. Rep. 900. For our purposes it seems unnecessary
to state the case at greater length.
The facts gave rise to a cause of action under the act of
Congress. The city was a person within the meaning of § 7
by the express provision of § 8. It was injured in its property,
at least, if not in its business of furnishing water, by being led
to pay more than the worth of the pipe. A person whose
property is diminished by a payment of money wrongfully
induced is injured in his property. The transaction which did
the wrong was a transaction between parties in different
States, if that be material. The fact that the defendants and
others had combined with the seller led to the excessive charge,
which the seller made ihithe interest of the trust by arrangement with its members, and which the buyer was induced to
pay by the semblance of competition, also arranged by the
members of the trust. One object of the combination was to
prevent other producers than the Anniston Pipe and Foundry
Company, the seller, from competing in sales to the plaintiff.
There can be no doubt that Congress had power to give an

CHATTANOOGA FOUNDRY, v. ATLANTA.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

action for damages to an individual who suffers by breach of
the law. Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38. The damage complained of must almost or quite always be damage in property,
that is, in the money of the plaintiff, which is owned within
some particular State. In other words, if Congress had power
to make the acts which led to the damage illegal, it could
authorize a recovery for the damage, altiu,ga die latter was
suffered wholly within the boundaries of 'tatc.
Finally,
the fact that the sale was not so connected in its terms with
the unlawful combination as to be unlawful, Connolly v. Union
Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, in no way contradicts the
proposition that the motives and inducements to make it
were so affected by the combination as to constitute a wrong.
In most cases where the result complained of as springing from
a tort is a contract, the contract is lawful, and the tort goes
only to the motives which led to its being made, as when it is
induced by duress or fraud.
The limitation of five years in Rev. Stat. § 1047, to any
"suit or prosecution for any penalty or forfeiture, pecuniary
or otherwise, accruing under the laws of the United States,"
does not apply. The. construction of the phrase .'suit for a
penalty," and the reasons for that construction have been
stated so fully by this court that it is not necessary to repeat
them. Indeed the proposition hardly is disputed here. Huntington v. Altrill, 146 U. S.657, 668; Brady v. Daly, 175 U. S.
148, 155, 156.
Thus we come to the main question of the case, namely,
which limitation under the laws of Tennessee is applicable,
the matter being left to the local law by the silence 'of the
Statutes of the United States. Rev. Stat. § 721; Campbell v.
Haverhill, 155 U. S. 610. The material provisions of the
Tennessee Code are as follows: By Article .2769 (Shannon,
4466), all civil actions are to be commenced within the periods
prescribed, with immaterial exceptions. By Article 2772
(Shannon, 4469), actions, among others, "for statute penalties,
within one year after cause, of action accrued." By 2773

OCTOBER TERM, 1906
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

(Shannon, 4470), "Actions for injuries to personal or real
property; actions for. the detention or conversion of personal
property, within three years from -the accruing of the cause of
action." By 2776 (Shannon, 4473), certain actions enumerated,
"and all other cases not expressly provided for, within ten
years after the cause of action accrued." The Circuit Court
of Appeals held that the case did not fall within 2772 or 2773
but only within 2776, and therefore was not barred. Although
the decision is appealed from, as this question involves the construction of local law we cannot but attribute weight to the
opinion of the judge who rendered the judgment, in view of his
experience upon the Supreme Court of Tennessee. And although doubts were raised by the argument, we have come
to agree with his interpretation in the main.
As to the article touching actions for statute penalties,
notwithstanding some grounds for distinguishing it from Rev.
Stat. § 1.047, which were pointed out, so far as this liability
under the laws of the United States is concerned we must
adhere to the construction of it which we already have adopted.
The chief argument relied upon is that this suit is for injury.
to personal property, and so within Article 2773. It was
pressed upon us that formerly the limitations-addressed themselves to forms of action, that actions upon the case, such as
this would have been, -were barred in three years, following
St. 21 Jac. 1, c. 21, § 3, and that when a change was necessitafed by the doing away with the old forms of action, it is
not to be supposed that the change was intended to affect the
substance, or more than the mode of stating the time allowed.
Of course, it was argued also that this was an injury to property, within the plain meaning of. the words. But we are
satisfied, on the whole, and in view of its juxtaposition with
detention and conversion, that the phrase has a narrower intent. It may be that it has a somewhat broader scope than
was intimated below, and that some wrongs are within it
besides physical damage to tangible property. But there is
a sufficiently -clear distinction between injuries to property

GUY v. DONALD.
Syllabus.

203 U. S.

and "injured in his business or property," the latter being the
language of the act of Congress. A man is injured in his
property when his property is diminished. He would not be
said to have suffered an injury to his )roperty unless the harm
fell upon soine object more definite and less ideal than his
total wealth. A trade-mark,. or a trade-name, or a title, is
property, and is regarded as an object capable of injury in
various ways. But when a man is made poorer by an extravagant bill we do not regard his wealth as a unity, or the
tort, if there is one, as directed against that unity as an object.
We do not go behind the person of the sufferer. We say that
he has been defrauded or subjected to duress, or whatever it
may be, and stop there. It was urged that the opening article to which we have referred expressed an intention to bar
all civil actions, but that hardly helps the construction of any
particular article following, since the dragiet at the end,
2776, catches all cases not "expressly provided for." On the
whole case we agree witb the court below.
Judgment affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM

dissent.

GUY r. DONALD.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 90.

Argued November 8, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

While one carrying on private business may be answerable for the. torts
of another to whom he entrusts part of the work, he is not answerable
for the torts of one whom he cannot select, control or discharge.
The members of a pilot association recognized by state statute and to which
every pilot licensed by the State belongs, are not to be held liable as
partners to owners of piloted vessels for the negligence of each other,

