CAHEN v. BREWSTER.
203 U. S.

Syllabus.

wholesale merchants, nor anyone else, exempted from the prohibition of carrying on the 'bucket shop' business. Upon
the special verdict the defendant was properly adjudged
guilty."
k
This ruling as to the separability of the statute is conclusive,
and refutes the contention that the entire law is void even upon
the hypothesis that the creation of presumptions as to one
class not applicable to another class or classes was repugnant
to the Fourteenth Amendment.
It remains only to consider the contentions that the statute
upon which the conviction was had was repugnant to the due
-process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and was, moreover, void because it abridged the privileges and immunities
of the plaintiff in error as a citizen of the United States. As
the first rests solely upon the proposition that there was a
want of due process of law, because the State was without
power to authorize a presumption of guilt on proof of the
doing of certain acts specified in the statute, it is disposed
of by what we have already said. And as the second was not
pressed in argument, and is not shown by the record to have
been raised or even suggested in the court below, we need not
further consider it.
Affirmed.

CAHEN v. BREWSTER, TAX COLLECTOR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 91.

Argued November 9,,1906.-Decided December 24, 1906.

While under former decisions of this court the nature of inheritance taxes
has been defined, those decisions do not prescrlut the time of their imposition. To have done so would have been to usurp a legislative power
not possessed by this court.
A State may exercise its power to impose an inheritance tax at any time
during which it holds the property from the legatee; and the Louisiana

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

203 U. S.

'inheritance tax law is not void as a deprivation of'property without due
process of law within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. as to
legatees of decedents dying prior to its enactment but whose estates.
were still undistributed.
A statute imposing a succession tax is not void as against estates not closed,
as denying equal protection of the laws, because it does not affect estates
which had been actually closed at the time of its enactment.
When the state court which has delivered two decisions declares that the
later does not overrule, but distinguishes, the earlir, which it states was
decided on considerations having no application to the later one, both
decisions must be considered as correct interpretations of the statute
construed, and it is not the province of this court to pronounce them
contradictory or one to be more decisive than the other.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles Rosen and Mr. Gustave Lemle for the plaintiffs
in error:
That an inheritance tax is not a tax on property, but on the
privilege or right of inheriting, is no longer open to question.
Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Say. Bank, 170 U. S. 283; Knowlton
v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115; 27
Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 338.
That the rights of these heirs and legatees vested at the moment of the death of the ancestor is also beyond dispute.
Black on Constitutional Prohibitions (1887), 239; Cooley,
Const. Lim., 6th ed., 439; Prof. McGehee, Due Process of Law
(1906), 142, 144; Calvitt v. Mulhollam, 12 Rob. (La.) 258;
Womack v. Womack, 2 La. Ann. 339; Adams v. Hill, 5 La.
Ann. 114; Glassock v. Clark, 33 La. Ann. 584; Ware Y. Jones,
19 La. Ann. 428; Page v. Gas Light Co., 7 Rob. (La.) 184;
Addison v. Bank, 15 Louisiana, 527; Succession of Prevost,
12 La. Ann. 577; Armand Heirs v. Executors, 3 Louisiana, 336.
As to the universal legatees, the inheritance of property
by them took place at the moment of their testator's death.
This privilege or right of inheritance was not exercised subsequently; and, there being no inheritance after the tax was
levied, no tax is due.
The prohibition .that formerly applied, under the Fifth
Amendment, only to the United States, now applies with

CAHEN v. BREWSTER.
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

equal force, under the Fourteenth Amendment, to the States.
They, no more than the United States, can, under the guise
of taxation, or other legislation, take private property for
public purposes without compensation, or pass retroactive laws
that divest vested rights.
This law is not merely retroactive. Remedial legislation
that is retrospective is unobjectionable. Retroactive legislation that does not divest vested rights is not in violation of
the Federal Constitution. But retroactive legislation that
divests vested rights, that interferes with rights already acquired, that imposes a tax-for the privilege of inherison where
such privilege has been long since exercised, and, therefore,
requires payment of such tax merely becauseit has the physical
power to do so by reason of the fact that the owner is, from
some delay or other accidental cause, not yet in possession,
is a clear taking of property, a clear deprivation of property,
without due process of law. Cooley, Const. Lim., 6th ed., 436;'
Norman v. Heist, 5 W. & S. 171;i.Beall v. Beall, 8 Georgia, 210;
Case of Pell, 171 N. Y. 48; Case of Lansing, 182 N. Y. 238.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana, in holding that as the inheritance was property within the limits of the State, the
State could tax it, for the purpose mentioned, until it had
passed out of'the succession of the testator, erred.
Confusing the tax on the right to inherit with a tax on
'property, although the property was still within the State,
the right of inheritance or succession did not still remain to
be exercised.
The clause in question is a denial of the equal protection
of the laws.
So far as the tax discriminates between descendants and
collaterals, there is no objection. This was expressly decided
in the Magoun case, but after having first made a class of collaterals or strangers, it taxes some and exempts others-and
these,too, inheriting under the same conditions, by the. same
title, on the same day. This is not classification, and is a denial
of the equal protection of the laws.
VOL.. cciii-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 .U. S.

Arbitrary selection can never be justified by calling it
classification. The equal protection demanded by the Fourteenth Amendment forbids this. Railroad Co. v. Ellis, 165
U. S. 150; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31; Cotting v.
Kansas City Stock Yards, 183 U. S. 108; Yick Wo v. Hopkins,
118 LT. S. 356, 369; Railroad & Tel. Co. v. Bd. ol Equalizers,
85F
Fd. Rep. 302; Connelly case, 184 U. S. 540.
Mr. F. C. Zacharie for defendants in error:
This court will not review or reverse the decision of the court
of Louisiana on any question as to the construction of laws
of that State, even though this court might differ in that
regard from the opinion and decision of the highest court of
that State, in construing its own constitution and laws. 22
Ency. of Pl. & Pr., 326, and cases cited in note 3.
The inheritance or succession tax provided for by the Louisiatia constitution, and the act 45 of 1904, passed in pursuance
of the power conferred by that instrument, are in nowise
in
contravention of the provisions of, the Constitution of the
United States, and the judgment and decree of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana should be affirmed and the claim of plaintiffs in error be rejected at their cost.. Carpeiter v. Pennsylmania, 17 How. 456; Orr, v. Gilnan et al., 183 U. S. 278.
MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

The case involves the validity, under the Constitution of the
United States, of a burden imposed inder the inheritance tax
law of the State of Louisiana, passed June 28, 1904.
Mathias Levy, a resident of New Orleans, died in that city
May 26, 1904. He was unmarried and left no ascendants, and
was, therefore, without forced heirs. He left a last will and
testament of the date of December 23, 1903, in which he
named executors and made sundry particular bequests. to
charitable institutions. He bequeathed the balance of his
estate, in eq'ial shares, to his two nieces, Camille Cahen and

CAHEN v. BREWSTER.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Julie Cahen, constituting them thereby his universal legatees
and instituted heirs.
The will was duly probated in the Civil District Court for
the Parish of Orleans, May 30, 1904. An inventory of his
estate was taken June 9, 1904, and-a supplementary inventory
August 3, 1904. The inventories showed the total appraised
value of the estate to be $64,676.05. Of this amount, after
deducting the debts and charges of the estate and particular
legacies, there was left, as the portion going to the universal
legatees, $42,927.94..
The final accounting and tableau of distribution was filed
August 3, 1904, and approved and homologated by judgment
August 16, and the funds ordered to be distributed.
October 16 a motion was made for a rule on the executors
to show cause why they should not pay over the legacies as
ordered. In answer to which the executors replied that they
were willing to do.so, but that it was announced to them by
the president of the school board of the parish that he intended
to claim in behalf of said board a tax under the inheritance
tax law of the State- on- the funds in their hands "and the'
shares coming to said movers." The' executors also alleged
the unconstitutionality of the tax and prayed that the school,
board of the parish, through its president, AndrewH. Wilson,
be. made a party to the proceedings. Wilson appeared and
averred that the taxes were due the State and not to the
school board, and were collectible by the state tax collector,
and "that this suit and the matters at issue herein should be
litigated contradictorily with the state tax collector for the
district in which the deceased resided when he departed this
life."
The tax collector appeared. The agents and attorneys in
fact of the legatees answered the demand of the school board
to be paid the tax that ,$10,000 of the estate was in United
States,bonds, and not subject to taxation by the State, and
averred that an inheritance tax was not due "to said board
for the reason that said act has no application to the property

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

under this succession or the legacies due to said movers in the
motion aforesaid; that to give it such application would be to
make said act retroactive and divest the vested rights of the
said movers in said rule, which would be in violation of the
constitution of this State, and especially article 166 thereof,
and in violation of the Constitution of the .United States of
America, and especially section 9 of article I, and the Fifth
and Fourteenth Amendments thereof, and in violation of the
laws of the State and of the land; that it would be a deprivation of property without due process of 'law and a denial of
the equal proteetion of the laws, in violation of the Fifth and
Fourteenth Amendments of the Constitution of the United
States of America."
Judgment was rendered'in favor of the tax collector, condemning the executors to pay the tax, less the amount of
United States bonds, and less the charitable and religious bequests.. The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State.
The law imposes a tax of three per cent "on direct inheritances and donations. to ascendants or descendants," and
ten per cent upon donations or inheritances to collaterals or
strangers. It is provided that the tax is "to be collected on
all successions not finally closed and administered upon, and
all successions hereafter opened." 1
I SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Louisiana; That there is now, and shall hereafter be levied, solely for the
support of the public schools, a tax upon all inheritances, legacies, and
donations; provided, no direct inheritance, or donation, to an ascendant
or descendant, below ten thousand dollars in amount or value, shall be so
taxed; a special inheritance tax, of three per cent on direct inheritances
and donations to ascendants or descendants and ten per cent for collateral
inheritances and donations to collaterals or strangers; provided bequests
to educational, religious, or charitable institutions shall be exempt from
this tax and provided further that this tax shall not be enforced when the
property donated or inherited shall have borne its just proportion of taxes
prior to the time of such donation or inheritance; .ihis tax to be collected
on all successions not finally closed and administered upon and on all successions hereafter opened.

CAHEN v. BREWSTER.
203 U. S.

.Opinion

of the Court.

It will be obgerved that when Levy died, May 26, 1904, and
when the will' was probated, May 30, 1904, there was no inheritance tax in Louisiana. The act in controversy was passed
June 28, 1904.
In support of the attack made upon the law, it is contended
that an inheritance tax is not a tax on property but on the
right or privilege of inheriting, and that the right in the case
at bar. had- been exercised at the moment of the testator's
death under the then existing law, and "to pass a law exacting such a tax and make it retroactive so as to divest"a right
previously acquired under then existing laws, is a deprivation
of property already acquired, without due process of law,
prohibited by the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States."
To sustain their propositions the 1laintiffs, in error cite
certain articles of the Louisiana Civil Code.1 And it is urged.
940. A succession is acquired by the legal heir, who is called
by law to the inheritance, immediately after the death of the deceased person whom he-succeeds.
This rule applies also to testamentary heirs, to instituted heirs and
universal legatees, but not to particular legatees.
ARTICLE 941. The right mentioned in the ,preceding article is acquired
1 ARTICLE

by the heir, by the operation of the law alone, before he has taken any stepto put himself in possession, or has expressed any will to accept it.
Thus,.children, idiots, those who are ignorant of the death of the deceased,
are not the less considered as being seized of the succession, though they
may be merely seized of right and not in fact.
ARTICLE 942. The heir being considered seized of the succession from
the moment of its being opened, the right of possession, which the deceased
had, continues in the person of the heir, as if there had been no interruption,
and independent of the fact of possession.
ARTICLE 944. The heir being considered as having succeeded to 'the
deceased from the instant of his death, the first effect of this right is that
the heir transmits the succession to his own heirs, with the right of accepting or renouncing, although he himself have not accepted it, and even in
case he 'was ignorant that the succession was opened in his favor.
ARTICLE 945. The second effect of this right is to authorize the heir to
institute all the actions, even possessory ones, which the deceased had a
right to institute, and to prosecute those already commenced. For the heir,'
in everything, represents the deceased, and is of full right in his place, as
well for his rights as his obligations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

as indubitable that, under the, law of Louisiana, a succession
is acquired by the legal heir immediately after the death of
the deceased, and by the express terms of the code this rule
applies to testamentary heirs, to instituted heirs and universal
legatees. In other words, thatJthe acquisition of the succession by plaintiffs in error.was at the very moment of Levy's
death, and, therefore, necessarily before the act imposing
inheritance taxes was passed.- To sustain their view plaintiffs in error cite a number of cases decided prior to the decision of the case at bar, and the ease of Tulane University
of Louisiana v. Board of, Assessors et al., 115 Louisiana, 1026,
decided since the-,decision in the case at ,bar. Having established, as it is contended, that by operation of law the
property is transmitted immediately from the.testator to the
heir * it is also contended that from the very definition of an
inheritance tax none could -be imposed on plaintiffs in error
as legaties of Levy.
For definitions of 'an inheritance tax plaintiffs in error adduce
United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625; Magoun -v. Illinois
Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283; Knowlton.v. Moore, 178
U. S. 41. The tax was defined in the Perkins case to be "not
a tax upon the property itself, but 'upon its transmission by
will o-r descent;" and in the Magoun case, "not one pn prop,erty, but one -on.,the succession." In Knowlton v. Moore it
was said that stich taxes "rest in their essence upon the principle that death is the generating source from which the particular taxing power takes its being, and that it is the power to
transmit, or the transmission from the dead to the living, on
which such taxes- are more immediately rested." But these
definitions were intended only to distinguish the tax from one
on property, and it was not intended to be decided-that the
tax must attach at the instant of the death of a testator or
ARTICLE 1609. When, at the decease of the testator, there -are no heirs.
to whom a proportion of his property is reserved by law, the universal
legatee, by the'death of thetestator, is seized of right of the effects of the
succession, without being bound to ddmand the delivery thereof.

CAHEN v. BREWSTER.
203 U. S.

5541

Opinion of the Court.

intestate. In other words, we defined the nature of the tax;
we did not prescribe the time of its imposition. To have done
the latter would have been to prescribe a rule of succession of
estates and usurp a power we did not and do not possess.
There is nothing, therefore, in those cases which restrains the
power of the State as to the time of the imposition of the tax.
It may select the moment of death, or it may exercise its power
duriig any of the time it holds the property from the legatee.
"It is not," we said in the Perkins case, "until it has yielded
its contribution to the State that it becomes the property of
the legatee." See also Carpenter et al. v. Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, 17 How. 456.
We must turn back, therefore, to the law of Louisiana for
the solution of the questions presented in the case at bar.
But we are not required to reconcile the Louisiana decisions.
We accept that in the case at bar as a correct interpretation
of the code of the State. Nor may we regard Tulane University v. Board of Assessors, as irreconcilable with it. That
case was brought to enjoin the collection of state and city
taxes which had been assessed against the succession of A. C.
Hutchinson. The plaintiff university Was the universal
legatee of Hutchinson, and its property was exempt from
taxation under the constitution of the State. It is true the
court said that the code of the -State "left no room for doubt
or surmise as to the fact of the property of a deceased person
being transmitted directly and immediately to the legal heir,
or, in the absence of forced heirs, to the universal legatee,
without any intermediate stage, when it would be vested in the
successive representative or in the legal abstract, called 'succession.'
But the decision in the case at bar was not overruled, but
distinguished-as follows: "The case of succession of Levy was
decided from considerations peculiar to an inheritance tax,
and which can have no application to the instant case. This
inheritance tax was held to be due notwithstanding that,
under the provisions of the code, the ownership of the prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

erty passed to the heirs. The maxim," Le mort saisit le vif,'
_,as expressly recognized." Both decisions, therefore, must
:beUcohsidered as correct interpretations of the code of the
State. It is not our province to pronounce one more decisive
than the other, or to prvnounce a contradiction between them,
which the court which delivired ,both of them has declared
does not exist. We must assume that the Tulane case approved*th' view expressed in the case at: bar of the rights of
legatees, as follows: "Furthermore, we have said, the legatees
acquired no vested right to the property bequeathed which
could enable them to successfully defend their inheritance
against the demand of the State for the inheritance tax. It
was property within the limits of the State, which the State
could tax, for purposes mentioned, until it had pasped out of
the succession of the testator."
Plaintiffs in error also. contended that the statute denied
them the equal protection of the laws. This contention is
based on the following 'provision of the statute: "This tax
to be collected on all successions not finaily closed and administered upon, and on all successions hereafter opened."
Successions which have been closed, it is said, are exempt
from the tax, and a discrimination is made: between'heirs
whose rights have become fixed and vested on the same day.
Counsel say: "The closing of the succession cannot affect the
question as to when the rights of the heirs vested; and cannot
be a cause for differentiation among the heiU; and such A
classification is purely arbitrary. Besides, such a classification rests on the theory that'the tax-is one on property, when
in fact it is one on. the right of inheritance." But, as we
understand, the Supreme Court made the validity of the tax
depend upon the very fact. which icounsel: attack as an improper basis of, classification... The -court decided, that the
property bequeathed was ,property the State could tax, "until.
it had passed out of the succession of the testator." It yas
certainly not improper classification to make the tax depend
upon a fact without which ji'7wouid, have. been invalid, In

BOARD OF EDUCATION v. ILLINOIS.
203 U. S.

553

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

other words, those who are subject to be taxed cannot eomplain that they are denied the equal protection of the laws
because those who cannot legally be taxed are not taxed.
Judgment affirmed.

BOARD. OF :EDUCATION OF THE KENTUCKY ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE :METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH v. ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 103.

Argued- November 14. 1906.-Decided December 24, 1906.

The fact that, as construed by the highest court of that State, the exemptions in the inheritance tax law of Illinois of religious and educational

institutions do not apply to corporations of other States, does not render
the provisions of the law applicable to foreign religious and educational
institutions void as discriminatory and counter to the equal protection
clause- of the Fourteenth Amendment.
It is not an unreasonable or arbitrary classification for a State to exempt
from inheritance taxes only such property bequeathed for charity or
educational purposes as shall be bestowed within its borders or exercised
by'persons or corporations under its control.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles H. Aldrich, with whom Mr. Henry'S. McAuley"
and Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, Jr., were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Appellant, by probating the vill through which its succession is derived, appearing before the state appraiser in the
inheritance tax proceeding, appealing from the action of such
appraiser to the County Court of Cook County, and from its
action to the Supreme Court of Illinois, brought itself within
the jurisdiction of the State of Illinois, within the meaning
of the Fourteenth Amendment. Black v. Caldwell, 83 Fed.
Rep. 880, 885; Christian Union v. Yount, 101 U. S. 352, 356.

