OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

NORTHERN ASSURANCE COMPANY OF LONDON v.
GRAND VIEW BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBIWAKA.
No. 40.

Argued October 18, 19, 1906.-Decided November 5, 1906.

An adjudication in an action at 'law on a policy of insurance that the insured cannot recover on the policy as it then stood is not an adjudication that the contract cannot be reformed; and a court of another State

does not fail to give full faith and credit to such a judgment because
in an equity action it reforms the policy and gives judgment to the insured thereon as reformed.
Whether the obligation of the contract was impaired by a statute as construed is not open in this court if that objection was not taken below.
102 N. W. Rep. 246, affirmed.
THE

facts are statedin the opinion.

Mr. CharlesJ. Greene, with whom Mr. Ralph W. Breckenridge
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joseph R. Webster, with whom Mr. Halleck F. Rose and
Mr. Wilmer B. Comstock were on the brief, for defendant in
error.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill to reform a policy and to recover uponit as
reformed. An action at- law upon the same instrument,
between the -same parties, has come before this court heretofore. 183 .U. S. 308. In that case it was held that the plaintiff could not recover. The question before us:at the present
time is whether the Supreme Court of Nebraska failed to

give full faith and credit to the judgment in the former case
by holding that it was no bar to- the relief now sought. 102
N. W. Rep. 246.

The policy was conditioned to be void in case of other

NORTHERN ASS'CE. CO. v. GRAND VIEW G. ASS'N. 107
203 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

insurance, unless otherwise provided by agreement indorsed
or added; and it stated, in substance, that no officer or agent
had power to waive the condition except by such indorsement or addition. There was other insurance and there was
no indorsement. The plaintiff alleged a waiver and an
estoppel. The jury found that the agent who issued the
policy had been informed on behalf of the insured and knew
of the outstanding insurance. But this court held that the
attempt to establish a waiver was an attempt, to contradict
the very words of the written contract, which gave notice
that the condition was insisted upon and could be got rid of
in only one way, which no agent had power to change. The
judgment based upon this decision is what is now relied upon
as a bar. Metcalf v. Watertown, 153 U. S. 671, 676; Hancock
National Bank v. Farnwn, 176 U. S. 640, 645.
Whether sufficient grounds were shown for the relief which
was granted is a matter with which we have nothing to do.
But the state court was right in its answer to the question
before us. The former decision of course is not an adjudication that the contract cannot be reformed. It was rendered
in an action at law, and only decided that the contract
could not be recovered upon as it stood, or be helped out by
any doctrine of the common law. If it were to be a bar it
would be- so, not on the ground of the adjudication as such,
but on the ground of election, expressed by the form in
which the plaintiff saw fit to sue. As an adjudication it
simply establishes one of the propositions on which the
plaintiff relies; that it cannot recover upon the contract as it
stands. The supposed election is the source of the effect
attributed to the judgment. If that depended on matter
in pais it might be a question at least, as was argued, whether
such a case fell within either U. S. Const., Art. IV, ยง 1, or
Rev. Stat. ยง 905. It may be doubted whether the election
must not at least necessarily appear on the face of the record
as matter of law in order. to give the judgment a standing
under Rev. Stat. 905.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.:

203 U. S.

We pass such doubts, because we- are of opinion that, however the electio nbe stated, it is not made out. The plaintiff
in the former action expressed on the record its reliance upon
the facts- upon which it nPow relies. It did not demand ,a
judgment without regard to them and put them on one side,
as was done in' Washburn v. Great 'Western Insurance Co., 114
Massachusetts, 175, where 'this distinction was stated by Chief
Justice Gray. Its choice of law. was not an election ,but an
hypothesis. It expressed the supposition that -law was competent to give a remedy, as had been laid. down,.by the Supreme Court of Nebraska and the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Circuit. Home Fire Insurance ,v.
Wood, 50 Nebraska,'
381, 386; Firemen's Fund InsuranceCo. v. Norwood, 16 C. C. A
136. So iong as those decisions stood the plaintiff had no
choice. It could not, or at least did not need to, demand
reformation, if a court of 'law could affect the same result.
It did demand the result,, and showed by its pleadings that
the path 'which it did choose was chosen simply *because it
was supposed to be an open way. Snow v. Alley, 156 Massachusetts, 193, 195.
A question argued as to the 'obligation of the contract having been impaired by a statute as construed, was not taken,
below and is not open here.
Decree affirmed.

