UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
203 U.S.

take."

Argument for the United States.

A 'Federal court would hesitate indeed to put im-

pediments on this power or declare invalid any classification
of persons or corporations that had reasonable regard to the
purposes of the State and its legislation. And it cannot be
said ,that if a State exempts property bequeathed for charitable
or educational. purposes from taxation it is unreasonable or
arbitrary to require the charity to be exercised or the educa-

tion to be bestowed within her borders and-for her people,
whether exercised through persons or corporations.

Judgment affimed.
UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
WiPORMATION IN CONTEMPT.
No. 12, Original. Argued December 4. 8, 190.-Decided December 24, 1906.

*

_

Even if the Circuit-Court of the United States has no jurisdiction to entertain the petition for habeas corpu8 of one convicted in the state court,
and this court has no jurisdiction of an appeal from the order of the
/ Circuit Court denying the petition, this court, and this court alone, has
jurisdiction to decide whether the case is properly before it, and, Un.
til its judgmnent declining jurisdiction is announced,, it has authority to
.make orders to preserve existing conditions, and a willful disregard of
those orders constitutes contempt:
Wh"ere the ontempt -onsists of personal-presence and overt acts those charged
therewith cannot be purged by their mere disavowal of intent under oath.
In contempt proceedings the court is not a party; there is nothing that
affects the judges in their own persons and their only concern is that
the law should be obeyed and enforced.
After an appeal has been allowed by one of the justices of this court, and
an order entered that all proceedings against appellant be stayed and
his custody retainfed pending appeal, the-acts of persons having knowledge of such order, in creating a mob and taking appellant from his placd
of confinement and hanging him, cqnstitute contempt of this court,
and it is immaterial whether appellant's' custodian be regarded as a
mere state officer or as bailee of the United States under the order.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General with whom The Attorney Gcneral was

on the brief, for the United States:

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for the United States.

203 U. S.

There is no right to a trial by jury in contempt cases. Eilenbecker.v. Plymouth County, 134 U. S. 31; Ex parte Terry, 128
U. S. 289; Ex parte Savin, 131 U. S. 267; Ex parte Cuddy, 131
U. S. 280; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154
U. 8. 447, 489; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564.

The Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the Johnson case, and
this court had jurisdiction on appeal. Sec. 753, Rev. Stat.;
Ex parte Royall, 117 U..S. 241; In re Terry, 128 U. S..289;
In re .Loey,°134 U. S. 372; In re Neagle, 135 U. S. 1; In re
Wood, 104 U. S. 278; In re Burrus, 136 U. S. 586; 'Cook v.
Hart, 146 U. S. 183; In re Frederich, 149 U. S. 70; New York
v. Eno, 155 U. S. .89; Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 240;
Baker v. Grice, 169 U. S. 284; Tinsley v. Anderson, 171 U. S.
101; Davis v. Burke, 179 U. S. 399. In the Royall case the
court laid clown, and the later cases amplified, certain rules
as to the exercise of this jurisdiction. The ,court has thus'
guided the jurisdiction, but has never doubted or restricted it,
That the petitioner is held under the authority of a State
.cannot affect the question of the power or jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court to inquire into the cause of his commitment. See
Royall's case, Whitten v. Tomlinson and In re Burrus, supra.
The Circuit Court is not bound to discharge, because it may
and does remand, and that means that it may validly take jurisdiction of a case where the claim of violation of Federal right
is not established; it has jurisdiction to consider and decide
that if upon
either way. The opposing argument really means
deliberate examination the court conclude that the claim of alleged violation of Federal law is without merit, then the court
was without jurisdiction ab initio. That ig wholly untenable.
In this class of appeals this court ha§ always affii;med or
reversed the judgment below, and has. never dismissed for
want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court.
As to the jurisdiction of this court. An appeal may be
taken to the Supreme Court in the case of any person -alleged
to be restrained ofrhis liberty in violation of the Constitution,
Ot. Secs. 763, 764, Rev. Stat.; act of March 3, 1885, 23

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
2O U. S.

565

Argumnent fJoithe. United States.

Stat: 437. This. rigffitha
tnot
been taken away because the
language of, §o-f
the Circuit Court of Appeals act is "involves •
the construction br'.:application, of the: Constitution of the
United States.!.'. . ross:v. Burke 146 U.S. 82; Ex parte Lennon,
150 U'.-S. 393;CrCamerv. State, 168 U. S. 124. The appeal
here is matter of- right. Th'. court was bound to allow it.
When a claim -.under the Constitution of the United States is
.properly alleged, however unfounded it may turn .out to be,
this court deliberately considers the claim and retains the case
in its grasp and under its power in all respects and for all
.
purposes until final judgment dismissing, affirming or reversing has been rendered and the mandate thereon -executed. If
S"an
appeal is technically frivolous, it is for this court to say so.
. A' case which ultimately goes-out of this court on that ground
is.completely here within.the jurisdiction until it does go. The
proposition that: when the question 6f jurisdiction is doubtful,
individuals and communities need not respect the court's orders and mobs may do as they please is self-destructive.
The., right -of appeal may, be abused; an appeal may be
frivolous and -without merit; the delays of the law are often
exasperatihg; but none of these considerations is the slightest
excuse for speculating about the court's jurisdiction, or anticipating-its judgment, or disobeying its command.
Power to punish for contempts is inherent in all courts for
the purpose of enforcing judgments and orders and compelling
submission to lawful mandates, as well as for the purpose of
preserving order and imposing respect and decorum in the
presence of the court. Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204;
Cooper's case, 33 Vermont, 253; Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall.
505; Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289, and. authorities cited. The
power and dignity of this court' are paramount. This court is
preeminent as speaking the last word for the judicial power,
and looks to the Constitution, not only for its origin in general, but for its express creation, while the inferior Federal
courts look to Congress for their actual being, functions and
jurisdiction. It may be doubted whether Congress' could

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
203 V. S.

Argument for the United States.

limit the authority of this court over contempts, and whether
the restrictions of § 725, Revised Statutes, apply to this court,
although professing to apply to all courts of the United States.
This court had expressed that doubt. An act of Congress
controls the court of its own, creation, but not this. court,
if thereby its organic authority and jurisdiction under the
Constitution are curtailed. The general and inherent authority of this court, of whatever nature, does not need any
statutory grant of power and is not subject to statutory restrictions. Comparison of the statutory language suggests
reasons for thinking that the, phrase "courts of the United
States" does not always include this court. Secs. 9-17,
Judiciary Act of 1789; §§ 716, 724-726, Rev. Stat.; Ex parte
Robinson, 19 Wall. 505. Compare In re Tampa Suburban
R. R. Co., 168 U. S. 583, and In re Vidal, 179 U. S. 126, suggesting that an' inherent general power of the court may go
further than statutory authority.
But this case is clearly within § 725, which extends the
power of punishment to the disobedience or resistance by
any party, etc., "or other person to any lawful

....

order

or command of the said courts." This was not a
contempt in the face of the court, or constructively in its
presence. Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289; Savin, Petitioner,
131 U. S. 267. It is one of the "matters that'arise at a distance," 4 Bl. Com., 286, and accordingly a rule to show cause
issued instead of an instant attachment. The vital matter
of refusing to obey the court's command is as serious -in the
remotest corners of the country as in the courtroom.
Eilenbecker v. Plymouth Co., supra, emphasizes the proposition that although the power to' punish in contempt is restricted" by § 725, the, necessary .and fundaniental power to
enforce obedience to lawful orders or to punish for disobeying
them is left untouched. The power of a court to make an
order carries with it the equal power to punish for a disobedience of that order. Debs case, 159 U. S. 594; and the power
is summary. In re Savin, 131 U. S. 267, 276.

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
203 U. A.

Argument for the United States.

This was murder by a mob, and was an offense against the
State as well as against the United States, and this court;
but the same act may be a crime both against the State and
the United States, and the United States has complete power
to punish, whether the State does or not. Cross v. North
Carolina, -132 U. S. 131;, Pettibone v. United States, 148 U., S.
197; Crossley v. California, 168 U. S. 640.'
As to purgation under oath,-the old rule was that if one
charged in contempt deny upon oath, he is discharged of the
contempt; but may be prosecuted for perjury if he has foresworn himself. King v. Sims, 12 Mod. 511; King v. Vaughan,
2 Doug. 516. The rule is followed in modern times, e. g., the
May case, 1 Fed. Rep. 737, but it is held in applying it that
the question in every case is whether the facts are consistent
with an honest intent, and sound judicial discretion controls.
In re Perkins, 100 Fed. Rep. 950. The rule in equity is
different; testimony will be heard to, contradict as well as
support the statements of one charged with contempt. Underwood's case, 2 Humph, 46; Thompson v. Pennsylvania R. R.
Co., 48 N. J. Eq. 105; United States v. Anonymous, 21 Fed.
Rep. 761; Debs case, 04 Fed. Rep. 724; United States v. Sweeney,
95 Fed. Rep. 434. But the. distinction between -the rule in
law and equity does not seem to be entirely approved in
modern times. Underwood's case, ut supra; Cartwright's case,
114 Massachusetts, 230. In Savin, Petitioner, 131 U. S. 267,
,278, 279, the person charged testified 'under oath on his own
behalf, but his oath did not clear him; he had an opportunity to make his defense, but he had to make it and was adjudged guilty. And see also In re Watts & Sachs, 190 U. S.
1, 15. The cases which apply the rule relate to relatively trifling matters and to matters where there was no intentional disrespect, or contempt and where the respondents were excused
rather than acquitted. People v. Few, 2 Johns. 289; Matter of
Moore, 63 N. Car. 397; In re Walker, 82 N. Car. 95; State v.
Earl, 41 Indiana, 464; Burke v. State, 47 Indiana- 528; Haskett
v. State, 51 Indiana; 176; Oster v. Pcople, 192 Illinois, 473.

56g

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant

203 U. 8.

There are nuiierous well-considered authorities in the state
courts refusing to follow the rule. Hughes V. People, 5 Colorado, 436; State v. Simmons,.1 Arkansas, 265; Matter of Snyder, 103 N. Y. 178; Wise v. Chaney,67 Iowa, 73; Crow v. State,
24 Texas, 12; Watson v.Bank,5SS. Car. 159; Huntingtonv. Me:Mahon, 48 Connecticut, 174; -State v. Matthews, 37 N. H, 450.
It is not necessary to go into the confusions and distimetions between direct and- constructive, remedial and punitive
conteml)ts and the other classifications. This was aggravated, and that. is enough., There are many contempts as
aggravated as those directed at the court itself in open cqurt.
See instances noted in United States v, Anonymous; 21 Fed.
Rep. 769, 770.
This' contempt was the crime and sin of murder, but be-cause the proceeding is by contempt and not by indictment,
a criminal may not deny his crime and then'be liable to the
bare possibility of the lighter charge of perjury. A contempt
committed by a crime is none the less a crime because it is
a contempt. Debs case, 64 Fed. Rep. 753. The anonialy and
anachronism of "trying a man on, his own oath," which Blackstone excuses in favor of liberty. (4 Comm. 287) ought not to
survive into these days.
Whether the court's order constituted the sheriff an officer
pro hac vice of this court, is not material. The order went to
the sheriff with sovereign force, in whatever capacity he is
regarded, having in fact the legal custody of flie prisoner.
A state officer laving prisoners committed to his custody by
a court'of the United States is an officer of the United States.
Randolph v. Donaldson, 9 Cr. 86; In re Birdsong, 39 Fed. Rep.
599.
Mr. Ju.dson Harmon, Mr. Lewis Shepherd, Mr. G. W. Chamlee
and Mr. Robert B. Cooke, with whom Mr. Robert Pritchard,
Mi'. Martin A. Fleming an& Mr. T. P. Shepherd were- on the
brief, for defendants:
- While the appellate jurisdiction. of. this court is derived

UNITED STATES
203 U. 8.

i.

SHIPP.

Argument for Defendants.

from the Constitution, it is "with such exceptions and under
such regulations as Congress shall make." Art. III., Sec. 2;
Nat. Exchande Bank v. Peters, 144 U. S. 570; Cross v. United
States, 145 U.'S. 571; In re Gldser, 198 U. S. 171h
The right of appeal here must be found, if at all, in the
fifth clause of section 5 of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act of
March 3, 1891, "in any case that involves the, construction or
application of the Constitution of the United States." In re
Lennon, "150 U. S.393, 398.
The mere allowance of an appeal is insufficient to give the
court jurisdiction of a case which from its nature is not appealable.
It is proposed to make the order allowing the appeal and
the alleged acts of the defendants in preventing the court from
hearing the case the basis of affirmative penal action against
them, so that .the question is fundamental whether the case
in which the order was made was one wbich in fact came
within the limited appellate jurisdiction of cne court; whether
Johnson really had the right, of which the defendants are
charged with depriving him, to have this court-hear his case;
because if an order bemade without jurisdiction there can
be no punishment for contempt. Ex parte Rowland, 104
U. S.604, 612; Ex parte Fisk, 113 U. S. 713; In re Sawyer,
124.U. S.200. Johnson's proceeding in habeas corpus in the
Circuit Court did not in fact constitute a "case that involves
the construction or application. of the Constitution of the
United States..", This:being. so this court had no jurisdiction
of it and should now sohold for the purposes of this proceeding, just as it would have done if the State of Tennessee had
raised the question on the pretended appeal. Rogers v. Peck,
199 U. S. 425; In re Lennon, 150 U. S. 393, 399; Carey v.
Houston & T. C. Ry., 150 U. S. 170, 181; Carter v. Roberts,
177 U. S.496; C. H. & D. Ry. v. Thiebaud, 177 U. S. 615, 620.
The exceptional cases in which resort may be had to habeas
corpus in the Federal courts, instead of to*the highest court
of the State, -are only.those of publi, and not mere private.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendants.

203 U. S.

emergency, where the operations of the Government are
affected, as by the imprisonment of an officer. Whitten v.
Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231, 242, 247;-Kohl v. Lehlback, 160
U. S. 293.
The constitutional question must be real and substantial.
Storti v. Massachusetts, 183 U. S. 138; Bradley v. Lightcap,
No. 3, 195 U. S. 25; Wilson v. North Carolina, 169 U. S. 586.
The Federal question cannot be first raised in the assignment of errors, but there must have been a definite claim of
a right under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
Muse V. Arlington Hotel Co., 168 U. S. 430; Ansbro v. United
States, 159 U. S. 695; Chicago & N. W. Ry. v. Chicago, 164
U. S. 454.
The claims of Johnson that he was deprived of constitutional rights were not real and substantial, but were absolutely frivolous and wholly without foundation. Storti v.
Massachusetts, 183 U. S. 138.
The case here presented, involves neither a denial. of justice,
whether by the laws of Tennessee, or by the mode in which
they were administered, nor the invasion of a right secured
by the Federal Constitution. It was, therefore, not a case of
which the Circuit Court or this court was authorized to take
cognizance.
The contempt charged in this case belongs to the class
known as criminal or constructive contempts in which the
answer of' the contemnor is conclusive, Rex v. Vaughan, 2
Doug. 516; Rex v. Sims, 12 Mod. 511; United States v. Dodge,
2 Gall. (U.. S.) 313; In re May, I Fed. Rep. 737; Haskett v.
State, 51 Indiana, 176; Burke v. State, 47 Indiana, 528; State
v. Earle, 41 Indiana, 464; People v,Few, 2 Johns. 290; Matter
of Walker, 82 N. Car. 95; Matter of, Moore, 63 N. Car. 397
Thomas v. Cummings, 1 Yates (Pa.), 40; Underwood's case,
2 Hump. (Tenn.) 46.
The defendants having severally answered and fully denied
the contempts charged against them are, therefore, under the
foregoing authorities, entitled to their discharge.

UNITED STATES v. SHIPP.
203 U. S.
MR. JusTIcE

571

Opinion of the Court.

HoiEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an, information charging a contempt of this court
and is to the following effect. On February 11, 1906, one
Johnson, a colored man, was convicted of rape upon a white
woman, in a criminal court of Hamilton County, in the State
of Tennessee, and was sentenced to death. On March 3 he
presented a petition for a writ of habeas corpus to the United
States Circuit Court, setting up, among other things, that all
Negroes had been excluded, illegally, from the grand and
petit juries; that his counsel had. been deterred from pleading
that fact or challenging the array on that ground,. and also
from asking for a change of venue to secure an impartial trial,
or for a continuance to allow the excitement to subside, by
the fear and danger of mob violence; and that a motion for a
-new trial and an appeal were prevented by the same fear.
For these and other reasons it was alleged that he was deprived of various constitutional rights, and was: about to be
deprived of his life without due process of law.
On March 10, after a hearing upon evidence, the petition
*was denied, and it was ordered that the petitioner be remanded
to the custody of the sheriff of Hamilton County, to be detained by him in his custody for a period of-ten days, in which
to-enable the petitioner to prosecute an appeal, and in default of the prosecution of the appeal within that time to be
then further proceeded with by the' state court under its
sentence. On March 17 an appeal- to this court was allowed
by Mr. Justice Harlan. On the following Monday, March 19,
a similar order was made by this court, and it was ordered
further "that all proceedings against the appellant be stkyed,
and the custody of said appellant be retained pending this
appeal."
The sheriff of Hamilton County was notified by telegraph
of the order, receiving the news before six o'clock on. the same
day. The evening papers of Chattanooga published a full
account of what this court had done. And it is alleged that

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U; S.

the sheriff and his deputies were informed, and had reason
to believe, that an' attempt would be made that night by a
mob to murder the prisoner. Nevertheless, if the allegations
be true, the sheriff early in the evening withdrew .the customary
guard from the jail, and left only the night jailer in charge.
Subsequently, it is alleged, the sheriff and the other defendants, with man, others unknown, conspired to break into the
jail for the' purpose of lynching and murdering Johnson, with
intent to show contempt for the order of this court, and for the
purpose of preventing it from hearing the appeal and Johnson
from exercising his rights. In furtherance of this conspiracy
a mob, including the defendants, except the sheriff Shipp and
the night jailer, Gibson, broke into the jail, took Johnson out
and hanged him, the sheriff and Gibson pretending to do their
duty; but: :really sympathizing with and abetting the mob.
The fia
ts as well as the conspiracy are alleged as a conTh6 idefendants have appeared and answered, 'and certain
preliminary questions of law have been argued which it is
convenient and just to have settled at the outset before any
further steps are taken. The first question, naturally, is that
.of the jurisdiction of this court. The jurisdiction to punish
for a contempt is not denied as a general abstract proposition,,
as, of course, it could not be with success. Ex parte Robinson,
19 Wall. 505, 510; Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289,,302, 303.
But it is argued that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction in
the habeas corpus case, unless Johnson was in custody in
violation of the Constitution, Rev. Stat. §753, and that the
appellate jurisdiction of this court was dependent on the- act
of March 3, 1891, c. 517,§ 5, 26 Stat.' 827, In're Lennon, 150
U. S. 393, and by that actdid not exist unless the case involved "the construction or application of the Constitution
of the United States." If the case did not involve the application of the Constitution, otherwise than by way of pretense, it
is said that this court was without jurisdiction, and that its
order, might be contemnied with impunity. And it is urged

UNITED STATES v.- SHIPP.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that an inspection. of the :evidence before the Circuit Court,
if not the face of the petition, shows that the ground alleged
for the writ was only a pretense.
We regard this argument as unsound. It has been held, it
is true, that orders made. by a court having no jurisdiction to
make them may be disregarded without liability to process
for contempt. In re Sawer, 124",U.- S. 200;,Ex parte Fisk,
113 U. S. 713; Ex parte Ro'an 104SU. .,604. But even if
the Circuit Court had no jtisdiction iit 0:6-enttrtain Johnson's
*petition, and if this court ihd ;.nboJur iiction of the appeal,
this court, and this court alije, c uid2'decide 'that such was
the law. It and it alone: nece'si i .djirisdiction to decide
whether the case was pr6p-e4'rl5fore it. 'On that question,
at least, it was its duty tint
argument and to take the
time required for suei cdn'sderation as it might need. See
Mansfield, Coldwater & Lake Michigan Ry. Co. v. Swan, 111
U. S. 379, 387. Until its judgment declining jurisdiction
should be announced, it had authority from the necessity of
the case to make orders to preserve the existing conditions
and the subject of the petition, just as the state court was
bound to refrain from further proceedings until the same tinmc.
Rev. Stat. § 766; act of March 3, 1893, c. 226, 27 Stat. 751.
The fact -that the petitioner was entitled to argue his case
shows what needs no proof, that the law contemplates the
possibility of a decision either way, and therefore must provide
for it. Of course the provision of Rev. Stat. § 766, that until
final judgment on the appeal further proceedings in the state
court against the prisoner shall be deemed void, applies to
every case. There is no implied exception if the final judgment shall happen to be that the writ should :not have issued
or that the appeal should be dismissed.
It is proper that we should add that we are unable to agree
with the premises upon which, the cQnclusion just denied is
based. We cannot regard the grounds upon which the petition
for habeas.corpus was presented as frivolous or a mere pretense.
The murder of the petitioner has made it impossible to decide

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

that case, and-what we have Said makes it unnecessary to pass
upon it as a preliminary to deciding the question before us.
Therefore we shall say no more than that it does not appear
to us clear that the subject matter of the petition was beyond
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, and that, in our opinion,
the facts tl~at might have been found would have required
the gravest and most anxious consideration before the petition
could. have been denied.
Another general question is to be answered at this time.
The defendants severally have denied under oatl in, their
answer that they had anything to do with the murder. It
.is urged that the sworn answers are conclusive, that if they
are false the parties may be prosecuted for perjury, but that
in this proceeding they are to be tried, if they so elect, simply'
by their oaths. It has been suggested that the -court is a
party and therefore leaves the fact to 'be decided by the defendant. But this is a mere afterthought to explain something not understood. The court is not a party There is
nothing that affects the judges in their own persons. Their
concern is only that the law should be obeyed and enforced,
and their interest is no other than that they represent in every
case. On this occasion we shall not go into the history of the
notion. It may be that it was an intrusion or perversion of
the canon law, as is suggested by the propounding of interr6gatories and the very phrase, purgation by oath (juramentum
purgatorium). If so, it is a fragment of a system of proof
which does not prevail in theory or as a whole; and the reason
why it has not disappeared perhaps may be found in the rarity
with which contempts occur. It may be that even now, if
the sole question were the intent of an ambiguous act, the
proposition would apply. But in this case it is a question of
personal presence- and overt acts. If the presence and the
acts should be proved there would be little room for the diavowal of intent. And when the acts alleged consist in taking
part in a murder it cannot be admitted that a general denial
and affidavit should dispose of the case. The outward facts

UNITED .STATES v. SHIPP.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

are matters known to many and they will be ascertained by
testimony in the usual way. The question was left open in
Ex parte Savin, 131 U. S. 267, with a visible leaning toward
the conclusion to which we come, and that conclusion has been
adopted by state courts in decisions entitled to rtspcct. Huntington v. McMahon, 48 Connecticut, 174, 200, 201; State v.
Matthews, 37 N. H. 450, 455; Bates's case, 55 N. H. 325, 327;
Matter of Snyder, 103 N. Y. 178, 181; Crow v. State, 24 Texas,
12, 14; State v. Harper'sFerry Bridge C6., 16 W., Va. 864, 873.
See Wartman V. Wartman, Taney, 362, 370; Cartwright's
case,
114 Mas~chusetts, 230; Eilen6becker v. Plymouth Couinty, 134
U. S. 31. Whether or not ReV. Stat. § 725 applies to this
court, it embodies the law so far as it goes. We see no reason
for emasculating the power given by that section, and making
it so nearly futile as it would be if it were construed to mean
that all contemnors willing to run the. slight risk of a conviction for perjury can escape.
The question was touched' in argument, whether the acts
.charged constitute A contempt. We are of opinion that they
do, and that their character does not depend. upon a :nice inquiry, whether, after the order made by this court, the sheriff
was to be regarded as bailee of the United States or still held
the prisoner in the name of the State alone. Either way, the
order suspended further proceedings by the State against the
prisoner and required that he should be forthcoming to abide
the further order of this court. It may be found that what
created the mob and led to the crime was the unwillingness
of its members to submit to the delay required for the trial
of the appeal. From that to the intent to prevent that delay
and the hearing ot the appeal is a short step. If that step is
taken the contempt is proved.
These preliminaries being settled the trial of the case will
proceed.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY took no part in the decision.

