MERCANTILE TRUST CO. v. COLUMBUS.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

MERCANTILE TRUST & DEPOSIT COMPANY OF BALTIMORE v. CITY OF COLUMBUS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 50. Argued October 22, 23, 1006.-Decided December 3, 1906.
Where the bill of the trustee of bondholders of a water company, claiming an
exclusive contract with a municipality, shows that an act of the legislature
and an ordinance of the city have been passed under which the city shall
construct its own water works, and that during the life of the contract the
source of the ability of the water company to pay interest on, and principal
of, its bonds will be cut off, a case is presented involving a constitutional
question, and irrespective of diverse citizenship, the Circuit Court of the
United States has jurisdiction to determine the nature and validity of the
original contract and whether the subsequent legislation and ordinance
impaired its obligations within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.

THE appellant filed its bill in this case in the United States
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Georgia to obtain an
injunction restraining the city of Columbus, in thp State of
Georgia (one of above defendants) from the construction of
waterworks for the supplying of water to the defendant city
and its inhabitants. Judgment was entered by the Circuit
Court dismissing the bill for the want of jurisdiction, and the
question of jurisdiction alone was certified to this court under
see. 5, ch. 517, of the acts of Congress of 1891.
The complainant based the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
on the ground of diverse citizenship, and also upon the existence of a Federal question. An amended bill was filed and a
motion made for an injunction pendente lite, enjoining the city
from issuing bonds or doing any work towards the construction
of the waterworks. The motion was granted, and a demurrer
to the amended bill having been overruled, and' issue having
been joined by the service of an answer and replication, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

case was referred to a master. Evidence was taken before him,
and a report thereafter filed, to which exceptions were duly
taken by both parties and an argument had thereon before
the court. The judge certifies that before a decision had been
made by the court on the questions of law raised by the exceptions the defendant filed a motion to dismiss the bill on the
ground that if the parties to the suit were properly placed,
there was no such diversity of citizenship as was required to
sustain the jurisdiction of the court, and also on the ground
that there was no Federal question involved. The court
granted the motion on those grounds and made its certificate,
as stated.
The suit was brought by the appellant, a citizen of Maryland,
against the city of 'Columbus, a municipal corporation created
by the State of Georgia, and its mayor and aldermen, all of
them citizens of the State of Georgia, and against the Columbus
Waterworks Company, a corporation also created by the State
of Georgia.
It appears from the averments contained in the bill that the
complainant is trustee for the bondholders in a certain mortgage executed by the waterworks company, in January, 1891,
to complainant, as trustee, to secure the payment of certain
bonds, and to raise money for the purpose of making improvements and additions to the waterworks which were to supply
the city of Columbus with water, and for providing for future
extensions and improvements thereof. The mortgage is upon
all of the- company's property, and also upon all contracts
made, or thereafter to be made, between the waterworks
company and the city of Columbus for the supplying of water
by the company to the city, or any public institution or public
office. The mortgage also included all the water rents, etc.,
and all the income whatsoever of the mortgagor, due or tp grow
due, arising from its business of supplying water within the
city, or within its vicinity or elsewhere, during the continuance
of the lien under the mortgage.
It also included thereih a contract, which had been entered

MERCANTILE TRUST CO. v. COLUMBUS.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

into in October, 1881, between one Thomas R. White, of the
city of Philadelphia, and the mayor and council of the city of
Columbus (defendant herein), for the construction and operation of an effective system of waterworks for the supplying of
the city with water for the various uses required. This is
the contract in question in this suit. Provision for a corporation was made in the contract to which it was to be assigned;
the corporation was subsequently created, and such contract
was assigned by White to the water company, and the assignment was assented to by the city. The contract provided in
great detail for the erection of a water system for the city and
for private consumers, and it contained all the usual provisions
for that kind of a contract.
It was, among other things, provided in the contract that
the city should grant a franchise to the other party named
therein, for the exclusive privilege of maintaining and operating the waterworks for a period of thirty years, or until they
might be purchased by the city, as provided in the contract.
The work under the contract was completed and'accepted
by the city' November 6, 1882, and'the company then commenced to, and did for some years, furnish water, under its
provisions, to the city and its inhabitants.
Thereafter disputes and differences arose between the parties,
regarding the sufficient supply of water for the city and its inhabitants, the city contending that the water company had
entirely failed to satisfactorily fulfill the contract in that respect. The company contended, on the other hand, that it
had done all that possibly could be done, under the circumstances of an extraordinary and unprecedented drought, and
was willing to spend more money for the purpose of enlarging
its field of-supply, if the city would not by its proposed action
defeat such purpose. The differences continued, until finally,
on the fourteenth day of September, 1902, the city passed an
ordinance for submitting to the Voters of the city the question
of issuing $250,000 of bonds of the city, to be used for the
purpose of building and operating and owning a system of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

waterworks by the city. A special election was called for the
fourth day of December, 1902. The ordinance opened with
the statement that the water company had totally failed to
supply the city of Columbus and its inhabitants with a sufficient quantity of pure and wholesome water, and that the
public health of the city was of paramount importance to every
other consideration, and the city, therefore, proposed an ordinance (which it set forth for the approval of the electors) for
the issuing of bonds for the building of a separate system of
works to be owned and operated by the city. It was provided
in the proposed ordinance that if the electors assented to the
issue and sale of the bonds to be used for the purpose of building and operating the waterworks, that thereafter bonds of the
city should be issued upon certain conditions, and an annual
tax should be levied for the payment of the interest on the
bonds and a certain proportion of the principal every year.
The proposed ordinance also provided that in the event of the
assent of the voters at the election, and the issuing of the bonds
when the same should have been validated, as by law required,
thereafter the waterworks were to be considered a separate md
distinct department of the city go, ornment, and a water commik "on was to be created for the government and control and
operation of the waterworks. Other provisions were contained in the proposed ordinance regulating the doing of the
work and the operation of the constructed work.
On the third day of December, 1902, (the day before the
election under the city ordinance), the legislature, at the
request, as it may be presumed, of the city, passed an act to
amend its charter, so as to confer power and authority upon
the city to construct, maintain and operate a system of waterworks of its own. The act gave power to the city to appropriate private property, and to lay its pipes through its streets,
either within or without the corporate limits of the city, and
the city was given power and authority generally to do and
perform all things necessary to carry the object and purposes
of the act into effect. See. 7 of the act expressly conferred

MERCANTILE TRUST CO. v. COLUMBUS.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

upon the city the right to issue and sell its bonds, for the purposes of building and operating the waterworks. Provision
was also made in the act for the appointment of a board of
water commissioners, who should have the supervision and
control of the construction, operation and management of the
waterworks. - This board was to regulate the distribution and
use of water in all places, it was to fix the price for the use
thereof, and terms of payment therefor. The moneys coming
into the hands of the board for water rents-and the sale of any
apparatus, or other property, or from any other source connected with the waterworks, were to be paid to the treasurer
of the city, and were to be used by him only for the purpose
of paying any principal and interest becoming due on the bonds
issued by the city. The board was to be regarded as a subordinate branch of the city government.
The ordinance above mentioned and this act of the legislature of Georgia having been passed subsequently to the
execution of the contract, are asserted by the complainant
to be acts which impair the obligation of such contract.
Proceedings were taken under the ordinance, and the election was held pursuant to its provisions on the fourth of December, 1902, and resulted in the assent of the requisite number of electors to the issuing of the bonds and the use of the
proceeds in the erection of a water system, to be owned and
controlled by the city.
A board of water commissioners was thereupon appointed,
under the provisions of the ordinance and the act of the legislature, and on the sixth of May, 1903, the common council
received a communication from the board, through its secretary, wherein the board requested the common council to
invite bids for the bonds of the city for the purpose of constructing the system of waterworks, which bids were to be
opened on the first of August, 1903. Thereupon the common
council on the same day complied with the request, and directed the publication of a notice for receiving bids for the
bonds up to August 1, 1903.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

203 U. 8.

On the thirtieth of July, 1903, the complainant filed this
bill against the parties named. It is contended in the bill
that, as trustee for the bondholders, the complainant can
maintain this action, on the ground of an impairment of the
obligation of the contract already mentioned, and that as the
water company has mortgaged to the complainant the benefits
of its contract with the city, together with the other property
of the water company, as security for the payment of its bonds,
any such action as proposed by the city will destroy the value
of the bonds of the water company and will amount to the
taking of complainant trustee's property without due process
of law, and will deprive it of the equal protection of the laws.
The water company is made a defendant for the purpose of
binding it, as averred in the bill, by the judgment and decree
that may be rendered in this cause, so that the right and
equity of subrogation, or other rights and equities set up, may
be enforced and decreed against the water company, and that
the water company may be held and decreed, on its part, to
specifically perform all the obligations of such contract. An
injunction was asked for and granted, as stated, pendente lite.
It was also asked that the defendant city might be enjoined
from refusing to carry out the contract with the waterworks
company, and from placing any obstacle in the way of the
due performance thereof, according to its terms.
Mr. Joseph Packard, and Mr. Olin J. Wimberly, with whom
Mr. Louis F. Garrard,and Mr. John I. Hall were on the brief,
for appellant.
Mr. W. A. Wimbish and Mr. J. H. Martin, with whom Mr.
T. T. Miller was on the brief, for appellee:
Should the acts of the city be construed to be the equivalent
of a repudiation of the contract, this would not. give rise to
any Federal question.
A denial of liability under a contract does not affect its
obligation. The inherent difference between a contract and

MERCANTILE TRUST CO. v. COLUMBUS.
203 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

its obligation has been repeatedly recognized by this court,
which has.declared that the word "obligation" occurring in
the contract clause of the Constitution was used advisedly.
Parties make contracts; the law creates the obligation. Sturges
v. Crowninshield,4 Wheat. 122; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat.
213.
Since the law creates the obligation, only the law can impair
or destroy it. It cannot be affected by any act or default of
either contracting party. The constitutional provision is intended to protect the obligation of contracts against impairment by the laws of a State. The subsequent law must have
the effect of loosening the chain of the obligation by changing
the rights or the essential remedies of the parties as they
existed when the contract was entered into. Bronson v.
Kinzie, 1 How. 312; McCracken v. Haywood, 2 How. 608;
Edwards v. Kearzey, 96 U. S. 595.
A municipal ordinance, if authorized by the legislature,
may have the force and effect of a law of the State; and if
obnoxious to the Constitution, be held to impair the obligation of a contract.. The ordinance must have been passed
in pursuance of state legislation passed subsequent to th3
contract. McCracken v. Haywood, 2 How. 608; Lehigh Water
Co. v. Easton, 121 U. S. 392.
The mere fact, however, that a party repudiating a contract is a municipal corporation, does not give to its refusal
to perform the character of a law impairing the obligation
of the contract, or constitute the taking of private property
without due process of law. Dawson v. Columbia Ave. Trust
Co., 197 U. S. 178; Gas Light Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142;
Gas Co. v. Hamilton, 146 U. S. 258.
In pursuing the course adopted, the city of Columbus acted
without legislative sanction. No law of the State had been
passed subsequent to the contract which in the slightest degree
altered the rights or remedies. of either party.
Whether the contract granted an exclusive privilege such
as to prevent the city from\constructing its own system, and

*.,OCTOE.tER :TER'M, '190Q.7U .')I
..
Argument ,for;,Appelee.

203jU. S.

if so whether: the qity, hadjpower(7to grant such ahoxclusive
right, are questions,::to .beldptermined ibyitlielawsof-4he Stite,
in no wise involying,the.!onstfuctionk orpplication: ,of !the
Constitution of the, UnitedfStates.! !Eergwsallsv ,,Wate& Co.,
j .b'
72 Fed. Rep. 8.73- y.rVI
If the city in fact granted such exclusive privilege, and' if
in law it had power so to doi ilon,.f tie ,alleged ,acts on 'the
part of the city haye,in 'thejleastampaired the obligation- of
:
..
, c , the contract.
The refusal, of,:the ci yt0 pay an, installinent feffater rental
claimed to be! due;is-alleged~b have' beenu"ruahlwful;".andris
aterTCo:,,.
plainly a mere breoah of the,,ontradt.d.,Rattatflm.
1S1Ui$. 142;
Ratton, 174 Ul S. .36,OGasr'ighLCo.'f':J&aid,
Dawson v. Columbid,Avenue:Trust:Co.",197UthS. 178. 1.,; ;i.
In Georgia, a city)'in the,. exercise of. i':t policbl power Sand
in order to promote the genera*,welfare jpayd6nt-radt for &6r
itself provide a supply,..f Water'for.domegtic use [andfire pro-

tection. Frederick,v.tAfug'uOta, 5,Geoigia,(561; 1hme .v. Cabott,
28 Georgia, 50;,Wellsi r. Atlanta,.43 Georgia' 67; Dawsondv.
u
Dawson Waterworks Co.; 106,Geirgia , 709. .tr,1,0o ,
Nothing inthe actof Deceinbei;3; 1902,. vitilized;,sanctioned
or ratified any.(previouis :action pn\the paft of -the cityrwhich
would otherwise be illegal. Tlh;:citb already. jqossbessed .thb
power to buildrwat~orks. ,.tJts Tighbtorlssi 1b)Olsrfofhis
purpose was notderivQedfomhe aQtbtitqwas.foun-ded ;Apoh
laws in existenc6 wheni thd cofitractwsJ maA . f?'trwgs
forbidden byr its'i contract 4.-om dt6kng9 the. Itiono'the-Lfcty
jin
ih -thisfl.Iot
could claim <'no, iinuniby .bymanythih oonts
ed; S pr'ceddi~ivfully
of the legislaturo ,Olt..,asonly: hlk
in the execution of its puIpdSe nb5t.ih ¢onv aveition dfla
abgatib
,-i.f'I fil
'.
by a disrega'd.df, spy, "viidueonfiqact)
hbitlto the
The court will,)lW'kobeyond4he 'llegationsro
facts properly- pladedii',oder4 t.deerhiheeyhetherareal
and substantial Fe eral, lque bioni 'is presemdL'.% liga
Hartupee, 6 Wall-: 258;, Wilson :i',-torth aroi a,i&69,dfU( S.
586, 595; McCainives ",Moinest(l 4 .U:. S! 16S41 ;oNew

MERCANTILE' TRUST CO.. v. COLUMBUS.
Opiniori ofthe Court.,,:

203-U.S.uf:

Orleans Wdterworks lC. v-: Lbuisiana, 185 U. S. 336, 344;
SawyevJ,v.,Pip&ic1.89i 1 U- S. 154;::Waterworks Co. v. Newbury-

port; 193 U.S..5.1i 576; Harrisev. Rosenberger, 145 Fed. Rep.
,IAithe-iab 6n&e!of:expiess legislative. authority a municipal
corporati6nrcanoti ~giant an, irrevocable, exclusive privilege
so.asto createoaimohopoly . IMinturn v.La Rue, 23 How. 453;
~right .'agle,101,.U. S~.791;:)Street Railway Co. v. Detroit,
17.1 U. S. 48;,.Ill.ii.ois.,Trust,&:Savings, Bank v. Arkansas City,
76 iFed R~ps 27g:1.Jackson Ce,. R2., Co. v. Interstate &c. Co.,
24rFed.,Rep!'306; Sagindiw.,Gas Co. y. Saginaw, 28 Fed. Rep.
529;sGrdnd RoipidsV'I. Grand.Rapids, 33 Fed. Rep. 659; In re
Brooklyi, 14-3.)NT'Y. :596; Long, sland Water Co. v. Brooklyn,
ih,grdnts of dxclusiVe frarichises by, municipal corporations
nothing tpasses. by."imnplication. The grant is to be construed
moreLstrbngly in-fav brt of .the.:public :and against the grantee.
Waer&ojo., Kno.xil9e,20i.
U., S.:i22, Joplin v. Light Co., 191
.
ar'it..,I
§,2, par. 2; Code, § 5730;
Const.oAlabAzia, ( ,.,l:-iart.
;23, construed in Railway Co. v.
B{it~IiikghcnaiR ilwi~y tCo.;,58 An. Rep.r.615; Beinville Water
Coiv, Mobile 1861T S.,21,2.,,,, ,
,
fL, -'l:0JO2')
olJ

U
' B'

,-'Q
,.k
. £t .;'

Jh.ksTIl' PeK
,after.. mak-ing, the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the q0ur_, ,
;M,.i

,.Theneolb,,,question.; arising hereinJs,is hether the Federal
Circuit Court had the jiirisdiction todetermine the issue invo1,ved'.ThatJquestioncialpnejhas'been. certified to this court
by,the 0irc.uit-,,,Court,':under,the previ.sionsoft he fifth section
of ,thecact,,of ,Congress.ot1891. ,The grounds of the dismissal
of-the -bil1,&ie;.set foith.in-the foregoing statement of facts.
Whether ithi ta.oqecomes withi,,.the principle laid down by
this court in City of Dawson.1v. .Columbia 'Avenue Saving Fund
&c. Co., 197 U. S. 178, up-n,the questiQn.,of;diversity of citizenship, it- isunaeeessary tojjdetermine, because there is, in our

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

opinion, a Federal question involved, which gave the Circuit
Court jurisdiction to determine the case without reference to
citizenship. It is averred in the bill that by reason of the
passage of the ordinance of the common council of the city
and the act of the legislature of Georgia, passed December 3,
1902, the obligation of the contract set forth in the bill was
impaired. It is part of the duty of the Federal courts, under
the impairment of the obligation of contract clause in the
Constitution, to decide whether there be a valid contract and
what its construction is, and whether, as construed, there is
any subsequent legislation, by municipality or by the state
legislature, which impairs its obligation. That the ordinance
of the common council of a municipal corporation may constitute a law within the meaning of this constitutional clause
is too well settled to admit of doubt. St. Paul Gas Light Co.,,
v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142, 148; Davis &c. Co. v. Los Angeles,
189 U. S. .207, 216. The contract in this case provided in
terms for the exclusive privilege of supplying water to the
city and its inhabitants for thirty years from the date of its
completion. By the ordinance of the city of 1902 the city
insisted that the water company had totally failed to fulfill
its contract to supply water to the city and its inhabitants.
Such ordinance then went on and proposed to the electors an
ordinance, the material portions of which have been set forth
in the foregoing statement.
The act of the legislature, passed the day before the day of
the election, is also referred to in the statement, and some of
its material provisions are mentioned.
The ordinance and the act should properly be considered
together, and they evidently contemplate an immediate
execution of the work in case the electors assented to the
issuing of the bonds. If the provisions of the ordinance and
act were carried out, the effect, of course, could be none other
than disastrous to the water company, as the obligations of
the contract (if any) would thereby be so far impaired as to
render the contract of no value. The source of the ability of

MERCANTILE TRUST CO. v. COLUMBUS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the water company to pay the interest on its bonds, and the
principal thereof, as they became due was, by this ordinance
and act, entirely cut off.
Was not this legislation, and legislation of a kind materially
to impair the obligation of the contract then existing, and not
only to impair, but to wholly destroy its value? We are not
called upon now to say whether the exclusive right for thirty
years, granted to the water company by the contract to supply
the city with water, was legal and valid, because that is a part
of the question whether the obligation of the contract has been
impaired by the subsequent ordinances of the city and the
laws of the State. It cannot be determined that there is an
impairment of the obligation of a contract until it is determined what the contract is, and whether it is a valid contract.
If it be valid, it still remains to be determined whether thesubsequent proceedings of the city council and legislature
impaired its obligation. The ordinance and act were not mere
statements of an intention on the part of one of the parties to
a contract not to be bound by its obligations. Such a denial
on the part, even of a municipal corporation, contained in an
ordinance to that effect, is not legislation impairing the obligation of a contract. St. Paul Gas Light Co. v. St. Paul, 181
U. S. 142. It was stated in that case that the ordinance in
question "created no new right or imposed no new duty substantially antagonistic to the obligations of the contract, but
simply expressed the purpose of the city not in the future to
pay the interest on the cost of construction of the lamp posts
which were ordered to be removed.

.

.

.

When the sub-

stantial scope of this provision of the ordinance is clearly
understood, it is seen that the contention here advanced of
impairment of the obligations of the contract arising from this
provision of the ordinance reduces itself at once to the proposition that wherever it is asserted on the one hand that a municipality- is bound by a gontract to perform a particular act
and the municipality denies that it is liable under the contract
to. do so, thereby an impairment of the obligations of the conVOL. coiii-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

tract arises in violation of the Constitution of the United
States. But this amounts only to the contention that every
case involving a controversy concerning a municipal contract
is one of Federal cognizance, determinable ultimately in this
court. Thus to reduce the proposition to its ultimate conception is to demonstrate its error."
In the case at bar the conditions are entirely different.
There was not merely a denial by the city of its obligation under
the contract, but the question is whether there were not new
and substantial duties in positive opposition to those contained
in the contract created and their performance provided for
by the ordinances and act. The act of the legislature aided
the city by granting it power to itself erect waterworks and
to issue bonds in payment of the cost thereof, and the city
was proceeding to avail itself of the power thus granted, when
its progress was arrested by the filing of the bill in this case
and the issuing of a temporary injunction. It would seem a.
if the case were really within the principle decided in Walla
Walla City v. Walla Walla Water Company, 172 U. S. 1; Vicksburg Waterworks Co. v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S. 65, again reported
202 U. S. 453, Davis &c. Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207;
Knoxville Water Company v. Knoxville, 200-U. S. 22. In the
last cited case the water company contended that the agreement mentioned in that case constituted a contract, for which
it acquired for a given period the exclusive right to supply
water to the city and its inhabitants, and it insisted that the
obligation of this contract would be impaired if the city, acting
under the acts of the legislature and under the ordinance
mentioned,, established and maintained an independent and
separate system of waterworks in competition with those of the
water company. It was held that such a question was one
arising under the Constitution of the United States and that
the Federal Circuit Court had jurisdiction thereof without
regard to the citizenship of the parties. It must be remembered that in the case before us the sole question is whether
the Federal Circuit Court had jurisdiction to determine the

SECURITY TRUST CO. v. LEXINGTON.
203 U. S.

323

Statement of the Case.

case, and we are not now concerned with the question as to
how the matter should be determined, but only whether the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction to determine it. As stated in
Vicksburg Waterworks Co. v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S. 65, at page 82,

in speaking of the question of jurisdiction: "We do not wish
to be understood as now determining such questions in the
present case, for we are only considering whether or not the

Circuit Court had jurisdiction to consider them."
Concluding that the court below had such jurisdiction, because it presents a controversy arising under the Constitution
of the United States, the judgment of the Circuit Court is
reversed, and the case remanded to that court to take proceedings therein according to law.
Reversed.

SECURITY TRUST AND SAFETY VAULT COMPANY v.
CITY OF LEXINGTON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 55.

Argued October 23, 24, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

Before a special assessment, levied by legislative authority of a State--in
this case providing for back taxes in Kentucky-can be actually enforced,
or during the process of its enforcement, the taxpayer must have an
opportunity to be heard as to its validity and extent; but this rule is met
where the state court has afforded the taxpayer full opportunity to be
heard on both of those questions, and after such opportunity has rendered
a judgment providing for the enforcement of such amount of the tax as it
finds actually due.
In so determining the amount due and reducing the amount assessed the
state court does not assume the legislative function of making an assessment, but merely, after hearing, judicially decides the amount of an
assessment, made by the assessor under color of legislative authority.
Whether under the constitution and laws of the State the burden of showing
the invalidity of a tax is on the taxpayer, is not a Federal question.

THE plaintiff in error, which was plaintiff below, filed its

