OCTOBER TERM, i906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

UNITED STATES ex rel. LOWRY AND PLANTERS COMPRESS COMPANY v. ALLEN, COMMISSIONER OF
.PATENTS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 56.

Argued October 24, 25, 1906.-Decided December 10, 1906.

Rule 124 of the Patent Office which provides that no appeal can be taken
from a decision of a primary examiner affirming the patentability of the
claim or the applicant's right to make the same, is not void as contrary
to the provisions of §§ 482, 483, 4904, .4910, 4911, Rev. Stats., or § 9 of
the act of February 9, 1893, 27 Stat. 436. Those statutes provide only
for appeals upon the question of priority of invention, and appeals on
other questions are left under the power given by § 483, Rev. Stat., to
the regulation of the Patent Office.
P6 App. D. C. 8, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Oliver Mitchell, with whom Mr. Edmund Wetmore was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
An interference is a proceeding of a judicial character instituted by the Commissioner of Patents between rival applicants to determine priority of invention and patentability
and is as much a fundamental question as priority, and under
§§ 482 and 4909, Rev. Stat., all matters going to the applicant's right to a patent are appealable and must be adjudicated. Palmer v. Lozier, 90 Fed. Rep. 732; Podlesak v.
McInnerney, 120 0. G. 2127.
In interpreting any statute in the absence of ambiguity,
the ordinary meaning of its words and language control.
Maillard v. Lawrence, 16 How. 251; United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76; Ruggles v. Illinois, 108 U. S. 526; Pitman
v. Flint, 27 Massachusetts, 504; Putnam v. Longley, 28 Massachusetts, 487.
While the intent of Congress must be sought in the statute
to be construed, prior legislation on the same subject can be

LOWRY v. ALLEN.
203 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

considered and that indicates that Congress intended appeals
to lie as to patentability. See acts of 1870, 1 Stat. 109; of
1793, 1 Stat. 318; of 1836, 5 Stat. 117; of 1839, 5 Stat. 353;
of 1849, 9,Stat. 395; of 1852, 10 Stat. 75; of 1861, 12 Stat. 246;
those sections of act of 1870 incorporated in Rev. Stat. §§ 440,
476, 482, 483, 4904, 4909, 4910; § 9 of the Patent Act of 1893.
Rule 124 is inconsistent with law because it requires an
appeal from the primary examiner to the Commissioner direct, but §§ 482, 4909, Rev. Stat., provide that such appeal
shall be to the examiners in chief, the rule thus cutting down
the jurisdiction of the latter; because it deprives parties to
an interference -of the right of review by the examiners in
chief; because it forbids to one of the parties any appeal
or review from certain decisions of the primary examiner
as to the mechanical questions involved. This is not cured
by any provisions in Rule 126.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General McReynolds, with whom
Mr. John M. Coit was on the brief, for defendant in error:
It was not the clear, ministerial duty of the Commissioner
to permit plaintiff's appeal and petitioners have not shown
they have a clear right to an appeal. Ex parte C'utting, 94
U. S.14; High's Extraordinary Leg. Rem. 248.
The statutes relied on do not provide for interlocutory
appeals, and no reasons exist for presuming an intent to make
interlocutory rulings in interferences appealable prior to final
judgments. United States v. Duell, 172 U. S. 576; Wes tinghouse v. Duncan, 66 0. G. 1009; 2 App. D. C. 131; Cross v.
Phillips, 87 0. G. 1399; 14 App. D. C. 228; Hulett v. Long,
89 0. G. 1141;-15 App. D. C. 284.
The circumstances surrounding passage of appeal statute
show interlocutory motions are not appealable. See § 2 of
the act of 1861; Rule 58 of 1869 edition; Rule 59 of July 5,
1870, August 1, 1871, September 1, 1873, April 1, 1875, November 1, 1876; Rules 116, 117, 118, 141 of December 1, 1879.
The Patent-Office has never permitted appeals to examiners

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

in chief from the refusal of an interlocutory motion to dissolve an interference.
The rules permit review of interlocutory rulings with the
final judgment and are inconsistent with law. Cross v.
Phillips, 14 App. D. C. 228; Seeberger v. Dodge, 114 0. G. 2382;
Podlesak v. McInnerney, 120 0. G. 2127; 26 App. D. C. 399;
Pohle v. McKnight, 119 0. G. 2519.

Long established practice of the Patent Office is entitled
to great weight, and the rules as to appeals in respect to which
plaintiff in error complains has been the custom of the office
for forty years. Re Crane and Rogers, C. D. 1871: August 23,
1871, Leggett, Commissioner; Bate ReNr'ierating Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1; 70 0. G. 1633.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition for mandamus filed in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, requiring the Commissioner of
Patents to direct the board of examiners in chief to reinstate
and take jurisdiction of the appeal of petitioners from the
decision of the primary examiner, refusing to dissolve an interference between a patent granted to him and an application
for a patent by one William L. Spoon. The Supreme Court
granted thee mandamus. Its judgment was reversed by the
Court of Appeals.
The question in the case is, whether the rule of the Patent
Office which denies an appeal from a ruling of s primary
examiner, upon motion to dissolve an imtlcrfc-ence, is contrary
to the Revised Statutes, atnd therefore void. Rule 124 provides that "from a decision of a primary examiner affirming
the patentability of the claim or the applicant's right to make
the same, no appeal can be taken."
Plaintiffs in error attack the rule as inconsistent with the
sections of the Revised Statutes which provide for interferencep.
These sections are inserted in the margin. 1
I R.

S., SEC. 4904. Whenevcr an application is made for a patent which,

LOWRY v. ALLEN.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The facts are as follows: Lowry was granted a patent for
a bale of fibrous material January 29, 1897. An interference
was declared between his patent and application of one William
Spoon, to which interference Lowry was made a party. He
in the opinion of the Commissioner, would interfere with any pending
application, or with any unexpired patent, he shall give notice thereof to
the applicants, or applicant and patentee, as the case may be, and shall
direct the primary examiner to proceed to determine the question of priority
of invention. And the Commissioner may issue a patent to the party who
is adjudged the prior inventor, unless the adverse party appeals from the
decision of the primary examiner, or of the board of examiners in chief,
as the case may be, within such time, not less than twenty days, as the
Commissioner shall prescribe.
R. S., SEc. 4909. Every applicant for a patent or for the reissue of a
patent, any of the claims of which have been twice rejected, and every party
to ari interference, may appeal from the decision of the primary examiner,
or of the examiner in charge ol interferences in such case, to the board of
examiners in chief, having once paid the fee for such appeal.
R. S., Sac. 4910. If such party is dissatisfied with the decision of the
examiners in chief, he may, on payment of the fee prescribed, appeal to the
Commissior:,r in rerson.
R. S., Sr:c. 4911. If such party, except a party to an interference, is
dissatisfied with the decision of the Commissioner, he may appeal to the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, sitting in bane.
SEC. 9 (Act of February 9, 1893, 27 Stat. 436, c. 74). That the determination of appeals from the decision of the Commissioner of Patents, now
vested in the general term of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
in pursuance of the provisions of section ,seven hundred and eighty of. the
Revised Statutes'of the United States, relating to the District of Columbia,
shiall hereafter be and the same is hereby vested in the Court of Appeals
created by this act; and in addition, any party aggrieved by a decision of
the Commissioner of Patents in any interfer'ence case may appeal therefrom
to said Court of Appeals.
R. S., SEC. 482. The examiners in chief shall be persons of competent
legal knowledge and scientific ability, whose -duty it shall be, on the written
petition of the appellant, to revise and determine upon the validity of the
adverse decisions of examiners up-on applications for patents, and for reissues
of patents, and in interference cases; and, whn required by the Commissioner, they shall hear and report upon claims for extensions, and perform such other like duties as he may assign them.
" R. S., SEC. 483. The Commissioner of Patents, subject to the approval
of tle Secretary of the Interior, may from time to time establish regulations,
not inconsistent with law, for the conduct of proceedings in the Patent
Office.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

moved to dissolve the interference upon the ground, among
others, that Spoon's press was inoperative. The primary
examiner granted the motion and Spoon appealed to the board
of examiners in chief, who confirmed the decision: Upon
petition of Spoon the Commissioner of Patents remanded the
case to the primary examiner for further consideration, and
the latter officer, upon the filing of additional affidavits, decided that Spoon's application disclosed an operative device.
From this decision an appeal' was taken to the board of examiners in chief, which was dismissed, by' that board for want
of jurisdiction. Thereupon Lowry petitioned the Commissioner to direct the board to issue an appeal. The petition
was denied, the Acting Commissioner remarking:
"The rule prohibiting an appeal from a, decision upon a
motion holding that a party has the right to make the claim
of the issue is in accordance with the practice which has prevailed in this office for many years and has the support of all
decisions of the courts which have been rendered on the subject. There seems to be no reason for regarding it as inconsistent with the statute. It seems very clear that the decision
in this case is not a final adverse decision, since it is not a
ruling that Lowry is not entitled- to his patent. That is a
matter which may be determined in the further proceedings,
and, therefore, it is clear that the decision relates to a mere
interlocutory matter.
"The petition is denied."
Lowry filed another petition, appealing to the Commissioner
"in person," to direct the board of examiners in chief to entertain his appeal. The petition *was considered and denied.
In passing on the petition the Commissioner said:
"Under the express provisions of Rule 124 there is no appeal
to the examiners in chief from such decision rendered on an
interlocutory motion. It is believed that there is nothing
in that rule inconsistent with law, and that, therefore, it has
the force of law. The right of appeal in interferences given in
general terms in the statute is a very different thing from the

LOWRY v. ALLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

-right of appeal on all motions in the interference. To permit
appeals on motions would multiply litigation and extend the
proceedings in interferences beyond all reasonable limits. It
would work great hardship to parties. The appellate tribunals
of this office are no more required to give cases piecemeal consideration than are the appellate courts. The whole case should
be ready for appeal when the appeal provided for by the statute
is taken.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"It is to be particularly noted that .there has been no decision as to the rival claims of the parties to this interference.
It has not been decided which party is entitled to the patent.
If it should at any time be decided that Spoon is entitled to
the patent, Lowry will have the right of appeal, but until such
final decision is rendered the statute gives him no right of
appeal..
"It would seem upon general principles of law that Lowry
could then present for determination by his appeal any question which in his opinion vitally affects the question which
party is entitled to the patent. The only ground upon which
he can reasonably claim the right of appeal on this motion is
that the question vitally affects his claimed right to a patent,
and if it does that, he can raise it at final hearing and contest
it before the various appellate tribunals, including the Court
of Appeals.
"The refusal to permit the present appeal on motion is
therefore not a denial of an opportunity to have the matter
reviewed by the several appellate tribunals mentioned in the
statute."
And further: "No good reason is seen for changing the
provisions in Rule 124 here in controversy, Wvhich was adopted
and approved by a long line of Commissioners of Patents,
among whom have been some of the ablest patent lawyers in
the country, and which rule has been acquiesced in by patent
attorneys practicing before the office for the last quarter of a
century."
VOL. cciii-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

There is quite a sharp controversy between the parties as to
the effect of the ruling of the Commissioner. Plaintiffs in error
are apparently convinced that the ruling of the primary
examiner involve,; a fundamental right which, if not decided
on his appeal, will be forever forcclosed to him for review.
A different view is expressed by defendant in error. However
this may be, we think the question in the case is in quite narrow
compass. The statutes involved are not difficult of interpretation.

The determining sections are 482, 483, 4904 and

4909. Plaintiffs in error put especial stress upon sections 482
and 4909. Section 482 provides for the appointment of
examiners in chief, "whose duty it shall be, on the written,
petition of the appellant, to revise and determine upon the
in
.
validity of the adverse decisions of examiners
interference cases." Sections 4906, 4909 provide that "every
party to an inlcrfemence, may appeal from. the decision of the
.
in such case to the board of
primary examiner
. ". The contention is that this
examiners in chief..
section gives the right of appeal unreservedly and any limitation of it by a rule is void. Such might not be the result,
even-if there was no qualification of those sections in other
sections. As said by the Commissioner, "the right of appeal
in interferences given in general terms in the statute is a very
different thing from the right of appeal on all motions in the
It certainly could not have been the intention
interferetlce'
to destroy all distinctions in l)rocedure. But we are not left',
to inference. The statute is explicit. It limits the declaration
of interferences to the question of priority of invention. Section 4904 provides that in case of conflict of an application
for a patent with a pending application or with an unexpired
patent (as in the case at bar), the Commissioner shall give notice
thereof, "and shall direct the primary examiner to proceed
to determine the question of priority of invention." (Italics
ours.) And it is provided that th'e Commissioner shall issue
a patent to the party adjudged the prior inventor, unless the
adverse party appeals from the decision of the primary ex-

NEW JERSEY v. ANDERSON.
.203 U. S.

Syllabus.

aminer or examiners in chief, as the case may be. The history
of the sections and the rules are gone into at length by the
Court of Appeals in its opinion. We need not repeat the discussion. It answers the detailed reasoning of plaintiffs in
error. We concur with the views expressed, that the statutes
provide only for appeals upon the question of priority of invention. Appeals on other questions are left to the regulation
of the Patent Office under the grant of power contained in
section 483.
Jvdgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHXM

and MR.

JUSTICE DAY

dissent.

NEW JERSEY v. ANDERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 49.

Argued October 19, lOG.-Decided December 10, 1906.

The requirement of' § 64a of the bankruptcy law of 1898 in regard to
preference of taxes is a wide departure from the act of 1867 and prefers
taxes due to any State and not only those due to the State in which
proceedings are instituted.
It is the province of the courts to enforce, not to make, laws; and if a law
works inequality the redress, if any, must be had from Congress, and
arguments directed, not to the construction of the act, but as to the
justice of a method of distribution of assets under the bankruptcy law,
and the -hardship resulting therefrom, cannot influence judicial determination.
Generally speaking, a tax is a.pecuniary burden laid upon individuals or
property to support the Government, and § 64a of the bankruptcy law
is very broad and covers all taxes, including yearly license fees imposed
by the State on corporations organized under its laws for the privilege
of doing business, whether such business is carried on in that or in other
States.
A State creating a. corporation may fix the terms of its existence and

