502.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

FREDERIC L. GRANT SHOE COMPANY 7. W. M. LAIRD
('OMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM

THF

IISTRICT cO['RTl

FOR THE WE:TERN
No. 63.

o1

TilE

)ISTRICT OF NEW

UNITED

STATES

YORK.

Argued October 26, 1906-Decided December 17, 1906.

A judgment of the bankruptcy court that a'person against whom a petition
has been filed is or is not a bankrupt, based upon the verdict of a jury
demanded as of right under ยง 19 of the bankruptcy law, can only be
reviewed by this court by writ of error and not by appeal.
See 125 Fed. Rep. 576; 130 Fed. Rep. 881.

IN July, 1903, the W. M. Laird Company of Pittsburg,
Pennsylvania, commenced proceedings in the District Court
of the United States for the Western District of New York
to cause the Frederic L. Grant Shoe Company, a corporation
doing business in 'Rochester, New York, to be adjudicated
involuntary bankrupts. The petition was solely made by
the Laird Company, it averring, among other things, that the
shoe company had-less than twelve creditors, and that the
petitioner was a creditor and had provable unsecured claims
against the shoe company amounting in the aggregate to
more than five hundred dollars. The nature of the claim was
detailed at length, and showed that it was one for unliquidated
damages aggregating $3,732.80, asserted to have been suffered
by reason of breaches of an alleged express warranty in the
.sale of merchandise. The alleged bankrupt answered, denying its insolvency and the commission of any of tlle acts of
bankruptcy averred'in the petition, and demanded a trial by
jury of the said issues. It also denied being indebted in any
amount to the petitioner.
Soon afterwards a motion was made to dismiss the petition
on the ground that, because of the nature of the claim held

GRANT SHOE CO. v. LAIRD CO.
203 U. S.

Statemefit of the Case.

by the Laird Company, that company was not a creditor and
the-holder of a provable claim for any amount against the shoe
company within the meaning of subdivision b of section 19
of the bankruptcy act, and consequently was not entitled to
file a petition in bankruptcy against the alleged debtor. The
motion.to dismiss was denied by the district judge. 125 Fed.
Rep.. 576. In the order entered it was directed that the claim
of the petitioner be liquidated by the jury at the jury trial
demanded by the alleged bankrupt for the determination of
the issues as to insolvency and the commission of acts of'
bankruptcy. On the .petition of the alleged bankrupt to
review this order it was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. 130 Fed. Rep. 881.
A trial of the issues thus raised was had before a jury in
May, 1905, and, as recited in the record, "at the close of all
the evidence the court having directed the jury to find a verdiet that the said alleged bankrupt did, within four months
of the filing of the petition herein, commit an act of bankruptcy, in that it transferred a portion of its property to the
German-American Bank of Rochester, one of its creditors,
with'the intent to prefer said German-Atnerican Bank over its
other creditors, and that at the time of -said transfer said
alleged bankrupt was insolvent, and that the petitioner has a
provable :claim against said alleged bankrupt for damages for
the breach of warranty in the sale of shoes, and that the
amount of such claim of the petitioner is the sum of $3,454.00,
the jury found a verdict accordingly." An order was thereupon entered adjudicating the shoe company a bankrupt, and
declaring that the claim of the Laird Company was liquidated
at the sum of $3,454.00. The ,present appeal was then taken.
For the purpose of the appeal, and reciting that it was
pursuant to the requirements of General Order in Bankruptcy No. 36, .the trial judge made and filed findings of fact
and conclusions of law. A single question of jurisdiction was
also certified as having been raised at the opening of the hearing in September, 1905, by motion to dismiss, substantially

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

upon the grounds urged in the previous motion to dismiss,
which had been passed upon by the Court of Appeals.
Mr. P. M. French for appellant.
Mr. Hiram R. Wood for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Without considering whether the shoe company, appellant
in this court, is not concluded by the decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals upon the petition asking a review of the order
of the District Court in bankruptcy, denying the original
motion to dismiss, we do not pass upon the question presented
by this appeal, as we find we are without authority to do so.
Elliott v. Toeppner, 187 U. S. 327. In the cited case, answering a question certified from the United States Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, it was held that a judgment
that a person is not a bankrupt, entered by a court of bankruptcy on a verdict of not guilty in a trial by jury, demanded
as of right under section 19 of the bankruptcy act, was reviewable only by writ of error. Section 25a of the Bankruptcy Act, which authorizes appeals, as in equity cases, to
be taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals, among other cases,
from a judgment adjudging or refusing to adjudge the defendant a bankrupt, was expressly considered, and it was held
that the provision only applied to judgments adjudging or
refusing to adjudge the defendant a bankrupt, "when a trial
by jury had not been demanded, and where the court of bankruptcy proceeded on its own findings of fact." The reasoning upon which the decision was based was in substance that
as in the character of proeeeding under consideration the right
to a trial by jury was absolute, such a trial was a trial according to the course of the common law, and judgments therein
rendered are revisable only on writ of error (p. 332). As in

WESTERN UNION TELEG. CO. v. HUGHES.
203 U. S.

505

Opinion of the Court.

the case at bar a jlry was demanded, the trial was before such
jury, and their verdict determined the questions at issue, it
follows that the record should have been brought to this court
by writ of error and not by appeal.
Appeal dismissed.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. HUGHES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.
No. 119.

Argued December 6, 1906.-Decided December 17, 1906..

Where the highest court of the State dismisses the writ of error to the trial
court solely and expressly because of lack of jurisdiction, the result of
the ruling is to determine that the trial cburt is the final court where
the question could be decided, and the writ of error from this court should
be directed to the trial court, and not to the highest Court, although that
court may be clothed with jurisdiction of questions of state and Federal
constitutionality of state laws, and may have discussed, and found without merit, the constitutional question.
104 Virginia, 240, writ of error dismissed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Rush Taggart, with whom Mr. John F. Dillon, Mr.
George H. Fearons and Mr. Francis Raymond Stark were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
There was no appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

By statutes of the State of Virginia a liability to forfeit
the sum of one hundred dollars was imposed upon a telegraph
company for an onission 'to promptly transmit and deliver
telegrams received by it. Code of Virginia, .1887, sees. 1291,

