OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

expressed by Judge Lowell, speaking for the Circuit Court of
Appeals, that if the lessor avail himself of the covenant and
reenter he may exercise his discretion to relet the premises
at risk of the lessee or occupy them. If he elect to relet he
must make "an honest and reasonable attempt to relet."
And this is a reasonable and just exaction. It is the spirit as
well as the letter of the covenant, fulfilling its security without
unnecessary loss to the lessee.
Whether the bank could have made a lease to extend beyond its charter life we need not decide.
Judgment affirmed..

CRUIT v. OWEN.
APPEAL FROM

THE

COURT

OF

APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 51.

Argued October 19, 22, 1006.-Decided December 3, 1906.

A trust in a will in favor of testator's four daughters and "from and after
their death " for the '"children of each of them," and in which the idea of
provision for the grandchildren is especially prominent, will not be construed, by rigidly giving plurality to the pronoun " their," as creating a
joint tenancy so that the last surviving daughter takes all the income to
the exclusion of'the children of her sisters previously deceaced.
25 App. D. C. 514, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward H. Thomas for appellant.
Mr. Chapin Brown, with whom Mr. J. P. Earnest was on
the brief, for appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit involves the construction of the will of Robert

CRUIT v. OWEN.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Cruit, deceased, and, as dependent thereon, the liability of
appellant to account to the appellees for the rents of certain
real estate located in the city of Washington and in the State

of Virginia. Decree in the Supreme Court passed for appellees,
which was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 25 App. D. C.
514.
The will was executed September 1, 1858, and was duly

admitted to probate.'

Thetestator left surviving him a wife

I This is the last will and testament of me Robert Cruit of the city of
Washington in the District of Columbia.
First I give my two nephews Edwin Cruit the son of George, and Henry
the son of John L. Cruit, the legacy of one hundred dollars, to each of them,
to be paid as soon after my death as may be. And all the rest residue and
remainder of my estate, real, personal and mixed, whatsoever and wheresoever situated, I give devise and bequeath unto my dear daughter Susan
Cruit, her heirs, executors and administrators, upon the following trusts to
wit In trust for my dear wife Catherine for and during her life, and to perr.fit her to receive and take the whole income thereof after paying taxes repairs and insurance, and to apply and dispose of such net income as she
my said wife may think proper and from and after her decease, in trust, as
to my real estate for my dear daughters Catherine E. the wife of Samuel
Owens, Ann Cruit, Louisa Cruit, and herself the said Susan Cruit, equally'
share and share alike, for and during their respective lives, for their own sole
and separate benefit, free from the control of the husband of my said daughter
Catherine and any husband or husbands she or my said other daughters
or any of them, may hereafter happen to marry, and not to be liable in any
way for the debts of any such husbands, the receipts of my said daughters
alone being a valid discharge And from and after their death in trust for
the child or children of each of my said daughters then living in fee simple,
such child or children respectively to take the share to which his, her or
their parent was entitled And if any of my said daughters shall die without having been married, her share shall pass to her or their surviving sisters
or sister for life equally; and upon her or their death the same shall vest in
her or their child or children in the same manner, and for the same estate
and pass on her or their death, as her or their original shares or share And
as to my personal property, also given in trust as above expressed, I direct
that the same shall, after the death of my said wife, be divided equally
among all my said children, Catherine, Susan, Ann and Louisa share and
share alike, and I accordingly give the same to them as aforesaid for their
own sole and separate use
And lastly I appoint my said daughter, Susan Cruit, sole executrix of
this my last will and testament. And if my said daughter shall die or from
any cause should become unable to act in the trust, I direc' that a trustee
yOL. cIMI-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

and four daughters, Catherine E., then the wife of Samuel
Owen, Susan, Ann (appellant) and Louisa. The widow of
the deceased died May 13, 1876;. Louisa died January 2, 1876;
Susan tied Deceinber 31, 1900, and Catherine E. Owen died
May 14, 1901. Susan and Louisa never married, nor has Ann
up to the present time. Catherine E. Owen left surviving her
three daughters, Evania F. Mackall and the appellees, Kate
D. Owen and Jessie Owen Cugle. The property produces an
income of $11,000 or $12,000.
The question in the case is whether appellant succeeded
to the whole estate upon the death of Catherine E. Owen, or
whether the children of the latter, appellees, were the successors of their mother.
The wil .gives small legacies to two nephews, and disposes
of "all the rest and residue and remainder of the testator's
estate to Susan Cruit in trust (1) for his wife for and during
her life, and topermit her to take-and receive the whole income,
thereof; (2) in trust, as to testator's real estate, to his daughters
equally, share and share alike, for and during their respective
lives,

.

.

.

and from and after their death in trust for

the child or children of each of my said daughters, then alive,
in fee simple, such child or children, respectively, to take the
share to which his, her or their parent was entitled. And if
any of my said daughters shall die without having been married, her share shall pass to her or their surviving sisters or
sister foi- life equally, and upon her or their death the same
shall vest in her or their child or children in the same manner
and for the same estate and pass on her or their death, as her
or their original share or shares."
We do not think it is difficult to discern the intention of
the testator. There is very little ambiguity in the will. If
ambiguity exist it is in the pronoun "their" in the provision
"and from and after their death in trust for the child or children
of each of my said daughters then living in fee simple, such
shill be appointed Iy the Circuit Court so that the trusts hereby created
slhall be at all times preserved and carried into effect.

CRUIT v. OWEN.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

child or children respectively to take the share to which his,
her or their parent was entitled." It is contended by appellant that it is manifest from these words and others in the
will that it was drawn by a skillful hand to create a joint
tenancy in the daughters of the testator, and cases are cited
in which wills containing such words have been construed,
it is contended, as giving such effect. We might review these
cases and those cited in opposition by appellees if the will in
controversy were less clear in its meaning. Provision for his
daughters and equality between them were clear and definite
in the mind of the testator. One daughter was married and
that the others might be was contemplated, and that children
might result therefrom. This idea is especially prominent and
is carefully expressed fnd provision is made for such children.
The contention of appellant militates against this idea. It
would leave grandchildren unprovided for. If such had been
the intention of the testator, we think, he would have explicitly expressed it. It was not so natural an intention as
the other. It is not the first impression of the will, and can
only be made out by rigidly giving plurality to the pronoun
"their" in the provision "and from .and after their death in
trust for the child or children of each of my said daughters,
then living, in fee simple." But the word is qualified and
made several by what precedes it. The devise is to his daughters "for and during their respective lives." It is qualified also
by what follows it. One of the daughters of the testator was
married, the others were not, and might not be, and anticipating this possibility the testator provided that if any. of his
daughters should die without having been married her share
should pass to the survivors. In other words, it was only upon
the death of a daughter "without having been married" (and
without issue possibly), that her share was to pass to her
sisters or sister. We also agree with the courts below that
the trust continues.
The concluding paragraph of the will is:
"And lastly I appoint my said daughter Susan Cruit sole

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

executrix of this my last will and testament. And if my said
daughter shall die or from any cause should become unable
to act in the trust, I direct that a trustee shall be appointed
by the Circuit Court so that the trusts hereby created shall
be at all times preserved and carried into effect."
Decree affirmed.

OFFIELD v. NEW YORK, NEW HAVEN AND HARTFOR )
IAILROAI) COWIPANY.
ERROR TO THE ,SUPREME ((fl"RT

OF EIMOItS OF THE STATE OF

(ONNECTICU'T.
No. 59. Argued October 25, 1906-Decided December 3, 1906.

Where plaintiff in error contends that the purpose for which his property
has been condemned is not a public use; that, the condemnation is unnecessary in order to obtain the desired cud; and that the proceedings and
state statute on which they are based violate the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment and impair contract rights. Federal questions
are involved and, if not frivolous, the writ of error will not be dismissed.
It is within the power of a State to provide for condemnation of minority
shares of stock in railroad and other corporations where the majority of
the shares are held by another railroad corporation if public interest
demands; and the improvement of the railroad owning the majority of
stock of another corporation may be a public use if the state courts so declare, and the condemnation under §§ 3694, 3695, Public Laws of Connecticut, of such minority shares of a corporation is not void under the impairment clause of the Constitution either because it impairs the obligation of
, lease made by the corporation to the corporation obtaining the shares
by condemnation, or because it impairs the contract rights of the stockholder.
78 Connecticut, 1, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward H. Rogers and Mr. W. H. H. Miller, with whom
Mr. Charles K. Bush was on the brief,.for plaintiff in error:
The statute is based upon the principle of eminent domain,

