.284

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

MARTIN i. PITTSBURG AND LAKE ERIE RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 66.

Argued October 26, 29, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

In the absence of action by Congress a State may by statute determine, and'
either augment or lessen a carrier's liability, and such a statute limiting
the right of recovery of certain classes of persons does not deprive a person
injured thereafter of a vested right of property. Pennsylvania Railroad
Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477.
Although a citizen of the United States has a right to travel from one State
to another, in the absence of Congressional action, he does not possess as
an incident of such travel the right to exert in a State in which he may be
injured a right of recovery not given by the laws thereof, although that
right may be given by the laws of other States including the one in which
suit is brought. A classification with a railroad company's employ s of all
persons, including railway postal clerks, not passengers, but so employed
in and about the railroad as to be subject to greater peril than passengers,
is not so arbitrary as to deprive the railway postal clerk of the equal protection of the laws within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Pennsylvania statute of April 4, 1868, P. L. 58, providing that any
person, not a passenger, employed in and about a railroad but not an.
employ6, shall in case of injury or loss of life have only the same right of
recovery as though he were an employ6, is not void, either because contrary to the power delegated to Congress to establish post offices and
post roads; or because repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution; or in conflict with the due process or equal protection clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment; or because it abridges the privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States.
Whether a railway postal clerk is a passenger or whether his right of recovery is limited by such statute is not a Federal question.
72 Ohio St. 659, affirmed.

brought this action to recover compenAt the time Martin was injured
personal
injuries.
sation for
he was on a train of the railroad company, in the employ of
the United States as a railway postal clerk on a route extending from Cleveland, Ohio, to IPittsburg, Pennsylvania. The
REUBEN L. MARTIN

. MARTIN v. PITTSBURG & LAKE ERIE R. R.
203 U. S.

285

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

injuries arose from the derailing in Pennsylvania of the train,
by the negligence of the crew of a work train, in permitting a
switch leading to a side track to be open. Among other
defenses the company pleaded a law of Pennsylvania, passed
April 4, 1868 (P. L. 58), which, it alleged, was applicable and
relieved from responsibility. In reply the plaintiff denied the
existence and applicability of the statute, and moreover, defended on the ground that the statute, if existing and applicable, was void; first, because contrary to the power delegated
to Congress to establish post offices and post roads; second,
because repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution; and, third, because in conflict with the equal protection
and due process clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, and
also the clause prohibiting a State from making or enforcing
any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of
citizens of the United States.
On trial before a jury the court held the statute in question
to be applicable and valid, and hence operative to defeat a
recovery. A verdict and judgment in favor of the railroad
company was severally affirmed by the Circuit Court and by
the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio. 72 Ohio St. 659.
Mr. Charles Koonce, Jr.- with whom Mr. Robert B. Murray
and Mr. William S. Anderson were on the brief; for plaintiff
in error:
Prior to the enactment of the statute everyone lawfully on
a train who was not in fact an employ6 of the company was,
and had the rights of a passenger in Pennsylvania. Lockhart
v. Lichtenlhaler, 46 Pa. St. 151, 159; Pennsylvania Railroad
Co. v. Henderson, 51 Pa. St. 315, 326; Creed v. Railroad Co.'
86 Pa. St. 139; Railroad Co. v. Myers, 55 Pa. St. 288. And
it was so held in this court. Railroad Co. v. Derby, 14 How.
468; Railroad Co. v. Gleason, 140 U. S. 435.
The same rule has been announced without exception in
every other jurisdiction. Calvin v. Southern Pac. Co., 136
Fed. -Rep. 592; Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, 135 Fed. Rep.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

1015; Arrowsmith v. Railroad Co., 57 Fed. Rep. 165; Collett v.
London, &c., R. R. Co., 15 Jur. 1053, S. C., 16 Ad. & El. N. S.
948, S. C., 16 Q. B. 984; Mellor v. RailroadCo., 105 Maryland,
460; Magoffin v. Railroad Co., 102 Missouri, 540; Seybolt v.
Railroad Co., 95 N. Y. 562; Blairv. Railroad Co., 66 N. Y. 564;
Yeomans v. Navigation Co., 44 California, 71; Hammond v.
Railroad Co., 6 S. Car. 130; Railroad Co. v. State, 72 Maryland,
36; Railroad Co. v. Klingman (Ky.), 35 S. W. Rep. 464; Railroad Co. v. Crudup, 63 Mississippi, 291; RailroadCo. v. Ketchum,
133 Indiana, 346; Railroad Co. v. Shott, 92 Virginia, 34.
It was also the established law of Pennsylvania that a
common carrier could not by contractual stipulation relieve
himself of liability for the negligence of himself or his servants,
whereby those carried by him were injured. Railroad Co. v.
Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357; 368, citing Laing v. Colder, 8 Pa. St.
479; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Henderson, 51 Pa. St. 315.
This is true even though the injured one so seeking to recover for such negligence was in charge of freight, and the
evidence of his right to be transported was denominated a "free
ticket." Pennsylvania Railroad Co. v. Henderson, 51 Pa. St.
315; Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357.
The act is in violation of the interstate commerce clause of
the Federal Constitution, article 1, section 8. The authority
of Congress to legislate with reference to the establishment of
post offices and post roads and all matters of an executive
and administrative character pertaining thereto, is exclusive.
In re.Debs, 158 U. S. 564, 583; Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall.
713-725. The United States have a property in the mails.
In re Deb's, 158 U. S. 593: Searlight v, Stokes, 3 How. 151.
The transmission of the United States mails, and those
having charge thereof, from one point to another are not
only subjects of interstate commerce, but the duties of the
latter, as railway postal clerks, and the rules and regulations
prescribing them, having their source exclusively in the Federal
Government, and being, as such, liable to Federal authority
only, they are constituted by such conditions subjects wholly

MARTIN v. PITTSBURG & LAKE ERIE R. R.
203 U. S.

287

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

national in their character and, concerning the rights, duties
and liabilities governing the same, there can, necessarily, be
but one uniform system or plan of regulation.
When this is true, the rulings of the Supreme Court of the
United States have been uniform that the legislative authority
vests only in Congress to regulate such subjects, and an attempt on the part of a state legislative body so to do is beyond
its power, and invalid. And where the power of Congress to
regulate is exclusive the failure of Congress to make express
regulations indicates its will that the subject shall be left free
from any restrictions or impositions; and any regulation of
the subject by the States, except in matters of local concern
only, is repugnant to such freedom. Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S.489-493; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,
222; Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283, 462; State Freight Cases,
15 Wall. 232, 279; Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, 469;
Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, 282; Alobile v. Kimball,
102 U. S. 691, 697; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622, 631;
Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446, 455; Pickard v. Car Co.,
117 U. S.34; RailroadCo. v. Illinois, 118 U. S.557.
Wherever state laws instead of being of a local nature and
not affecting interstate commerce, but incidentally, are national
in their character, the non-action of Congress indicates its
will that such commerce shall be free -and untrammelled, and
the case falls within the class of those laws wherein the jurisdiction of Congress is exclusive. Bridge Co. v. Kentucky,
154 U. S. 204, 212; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.622; Bowman
v. Railroad Co., 125 U. S.465.
Subject to certain exceptions only, .which exceptions pertain
in no respect to subjects of a national character, the States
have no right to impose restrictions, either by way of taxes,
discrimination or regulation of commerce between the States.
Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204, 212; Claire County v.
Interstate Transfer Co., 192 U. S.454. To the same effect see
also: Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Hanely v. Railroad
Co., 187 U. S. 617; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S.622;

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

Kelley v. Rhoades, 188 U, S. 1; Telegraph Co. v. Philadelphia,
190 U. S.160.
But even if the right of Congress to legislate with reference
to the rights and liabilities of the plaintiff were not exclusive,
the state statute is in conflict with the interstate commerce
clause of the Federal Constitution.
The commerce with foreign nations and between the States,
which consists in the transportation of persons and property
bet*ween them, is a subject of national character, and requires
uniformity of regulation. Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196.
The transportation of freight and passengers from one State
to another, or through more than one State, either'by land
or by water, is interstate commerce, regardless of the distaice
from which it comes or to which it is bound, before or after.
crossing such state line. The means of transportation and
the time of transit are immaterial. Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,
114 U. S.196; Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S.326;
Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204; Kelley v. Rhoades, 188
U. S. 1.
The transportation of freight and passengers from the
interior of one State to a point in another State is commerce
among the States, even as to that part of the voyage that lies
wholly within either State, provided the transportation is
under an entire contract for a continuous voyage. Railway
Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557. A state statute which only
assumes to regulate those engaged in interstate commerce
while passing through the particular State is nevertheless
void because it in effect necessarily regulates and controls
the conduct of such persons throughout the entire voyage
which stretches through several States. Hall v. DeCuir,
95 U. S. 485-489.
Any regulation of transportation from State to State,
whether upon the high seas, the lakes, the rivers, or upon railroads, or upon artificial channels of communication, operates as
a regulation of interstate commerce, and if imposed by a State

MARTIN v. PITTSBURG & LAKE ERIE R. R.
203 U. S.

289

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

is void. State Freight Tax Case, 15 Wall. 232. A state
statute proh1ibiting discrimination in rates of carriage of passengers or freight, or in facilities furnished, is void so far as it
applies to the interstate transportation of freight and passenpers. Railroad Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557.
The interstate passenger is comprehended by the constitutional provision as well as the interstate carrier. Railway
Co. v. Murphey, 196 U. S. 194, 206. The former utterances of
this court in the "separate coach law" cases permit of no
other conclusion.. Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485; Railway
Co. v. Mississippi, 133 U. S. 587; Plessy v. Ferguson, 163
U. S. 537; Railway Co. v. Kentucky, 179 U. S. 388.
,The Pennsylvania statute is invalid because it is in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The right of contract, and the power to make a contract,
are "property" within the meaning of the state and Federal
organic law. The privilege of making and entering into contracts is a property right. It is an essential incident to the
acquisition and protection of property, and is such right as
the legislature may not arbitrarily and without sufficient
cause either abridge or take away. Allgeyer v. Louisiana,
165 U. S. 578; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45-53; Cleveland v. ConstructionCo., 67 Ohio St. 197, 219; Palmerv. Tingle,
55 Ohio St. 423; Ritchie v. People, 155 Illinois, 98; Low v.
Printing Co., 41 Nebraska, 127; Frorerv. People, 141 Illinois,
171; State v. Loomis, 115 Missouri, 307; Commonwealth v. Perry,
155 Massachusetts, 117; People v. Hawkins, 157 N. Y. 1; Leep
v. Railroad Co., 58 ,Arkansas, 404.
Where rights of property are admitted to exist, the legislature cannot say they shall exist no longer, and so to contend
would. be to. say that one's property may be taken without
due process of law. Pumpelly v. Canal Co., 13 Wall. 166;
State v. Julow (Mo.), 29 L. R. A. 257; Re Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98;
State v. Goodwill, 33 W. Va. 178. That the right to recover
in an action for liability for damages to reputation, cannot
be abridged by statute has been established by the adjudicaVoL. cCI-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

203 U. S.

tions of a number of courts. Park v. Detroit Free Press Co.,
72 Michigan, 560; McGee v. Baumgartner, 129 Michigan, 287;
Hanson v. Krehbeil (Kans.), 64 L. R. A. 790; Osborne v. Leach,
135 N. Car. 628. The act is class legislation and vbid. Railroad Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Smyth v. Ames, 169 .U. S. 466;
Coiling v. Goddard, 183 U. S. 79; Railroad Tax Cases, 13 Fed.
Rep. 722; 18 Fed. Rep. 385; Passadenav. Stinson, 91 California,
238; Lunnan v. Hutchinson Bros. Co., 46 L. R. A. 393; State
v. Walsh, 35 L. R. A. 231; Ex parte Leo Jentzsch, 32 L. R. A.
664; Stratton v. Morris (Tenn.), 12 L. R. A. 70; Dixon v. Poe,
60 L. R. A. 308; 33 L. R. A. 589, 592; Railfoad Co. v. Taylor,
86 Fed. Rep. 168; Cooley on Constitutional Limitations, 393.
Mr. James P. Wilson, for defendant in error:
This statute in no manner obstructs or interferes with or
attempts to regulate commerce between the States, and is
not in contravention of art. I, sec. 8, of thb Constitution of
the United States. It may be conceded that the 'carrying
of the United States mails is a matter relating to intersta to
commerce, and that the regulation of it rests with Congtess.
It is conceded that the plaintiff was in charge of the miails at
the time of his injury. These admitted facts in 'no manner
affect the question. Pennsylva.ia Railroad Co. .v. Price,
96 Pa. St. 264; Railroad Co. v. Price, 113 U. S. 218;:Lake.
.
,o
Shore &c. R. R. v. Ohio, 173 U. S'. 258.
The cases cited by plaintiff in error are examples of an
attempt upon the part. of a State either to,-impos '- a- ditect
tax upon articles of commerce coming'into'the State, or attempts to exclude or discriminate against the classes, of persons
brought into the State or' to impos6: a tax upon the'traffic in
articles carried from another State, and thus to- interfere.
with interstate commerce. They are, all -based upon, the
principle that a State cannot legislate in such a manner as to
obstruct the free carriage of freight or'passengers from State
to State, or to enact laws which have for their tend6ncy the
regulation of such traffic. These authorities are all reviewed

MARTIN v. PITTSBURG & LAKE ERIE R. R.
203 U. S.

291

Opinion of the Court.

and clearly distinguished in the case of Railroad v. Kentucky,
116"U. S. 700, See also Pierce v. Van Dusen, 78 Fed. Rep.
693; Northern Pacific R. R. v. Adams, 192 U. S. 440; Boering
v. C. B. Ry. Co., 193 U. S. 442; Duncan v. Maine Ry. Co.,
113 Fed. Rep. 508.
A State might entirely cut off the right of a beneficiary to
recover for wrongful death and such an act might by a parity
of the reason. deter mail clerks from coming into the State
lest, if they be killed, their heirs would have.no right to compensation, yet no court would hold that such an act attempted
to regulate or interfere with interstate commerce. Sherlock
v. Atling, 93 U. S., 99.
The- constitutionality of this statute has been challenged
in the ease of Kirby v. Railroad Co., 76 Pa. St, 506; Railroad
v. Price, 96 Pa. St. 256 and Miller v. RailroadCo., 154 Pa. St.
473. The'latter case went to the Supreme Court of the United
State§ and is reported in 168 U. S. 131. This statute is clearly
wit~lin the constitutional rights of the legislature to enact
laws which operate equally, upon all of a certain class and
which affect all persons pursuing the same business under the
same conditions, alike, B.Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed.,
970,.,
Statutes of this naturo must not be ealricious, arbitrary or
unreasonable; but a very large discretion, is 'accorded to the
state legislaturm and recognized by the Federal cotirts. Louisville'&c. Ry. Co. v..KvAtucky, 161 U. S, 701.'
The classification of the statute 'is- ot arbitrary and not
against ptblic -policy.. Vaigt v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R., 176
U. S. 176;-Bates v. Old-Colony 1R.R., 147 Massachu~etts, 255.
See NoihernPacific',RailroadCo. v. -Addmsi 192 U. 5. 440;
BerinyiiJ ChesapeakeBeacch R. R. Co.;.193 U.' S. 442.
MtZ. 4VSTICE WHITE, -after

deliv.ereV the opinion

making the f.regoing statement,

the court.

9 qpotf the Pennsylvania.statute of April 4,' 1868, upon
which the-.ape turns:-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in General Assembly
met, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same,
that when any person shall sustain personal injury or loss of
life while lawfully engaged or employed on or about the roads,
works, depots, and premises of a railroad company, or in or
about any train or car, therein or thereon, of which company
such person is not an employ6, the right of action and recovery
in all such cases against the company shall be such only as
would exist if such person were an employ6, provided that
this section shall not apply to passengers."
As the application of the statute, if valid, presents no Federal
question, we are unconcerned. with that matter, although it
may be observed in passing that it is conceded in the argument
at bar that under the settled construction given to the statute
by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania the plaintiff, as a railway postal clerk, was not a passenger and had no greater
rights in the event of being injured in the course of his employment than would have had an employ6 of the railroad company.
Was the application of the statute thus construed to a railway postal clerk of the United States, in conflict with the
power of Congress to establish post offices and post roads?
In Price v. Pennsylvania Railroad Co., 113 U. S. 218, this
question was in effect foreclosed against the plaintiff in error.
That case was,brought to this court from a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, 96 Pa. St. 258, holding that
a railway postal clerk was not a passenger within the meaning
of the Pennsylvania act, and hence had no right to recover for
injuries suffered by him in consequence of the negligence of
an employd of thecompany. The Federal ground there relied
upon was substantially the one here asserted; that is, the power
of the Government of the United States to establish post
offices and post roads, and the effect of the legislation of Congress and the act of the Postmaster General in appointing mail
clerks thereunder. After fully considering the subject the case

MARTIN v. PITTSBURG & LAKE ERIE R. R. 293
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was dismissed because no substantial Federal ground was involved, the court saying (113 U. S.221):
"The person thus to be carried with the mail matter, without extra charge, is no more a passenger because he is in charge
of the mail, nor because no other compensation is made for
his transportation, than if he had no such charge, nor does
the fact that he is in the employment of the United States, and
that defendant is bound by contract with the Government
to carry him, affect the question. It would be just the same
if the company had contracted with any other person who
had charge of freight on the train to carry him without additional compensation. The statutes of the United States
which authorize this employment and direct this service do
not, therefore, make the person so engaged a passenger, or
deprive him of that character, in construing the Pennsylvania
statute. Nor does it give to persons so employed any right,
as against the railroad company, which would not belong to
any other person in a similar employment, by others than the
United States."
This brings us to the second contention, the repugnancy of
the Pennsylvania statute to the commerce clause of the Constitution. It is apparent from the decision in the Price case,
just previously referred to, that in deciding that question we
must determine the application of the statute to the plaintiff
in error, wholly irrespective of the fact that at the time he
was injured he was a railway postal clerk. In other words,
the validity or invalidity of the statute is to be adjudged
precisely as if the plaintiff was at the time of the injury serving
for hire in the employ of a private individual or corporation.
Under the circumstances. we have stated, the case of Pennsylvania Railroad Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477, clearly establishes the unsoundness of the contention that the Pennsylvania statute in question was void because in conflict with
the commerce clause. In that case a horse was shipped from
a point in the State of New York to a point in the State of
Pennsylvania under a bill of lading which limited the right of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

recovery to not exceeding one hundred dollars for any injury
which might be occasioned to the animal during the transit.
The horse was hurt within the State of Pennsylvania through
the negligence of a connecting carrier. In the courts of Pennsylvania,, applying the, Pennsylvania doctrine which denies
the-right of a common carrier to limit its liability for .injuries
resulting from negligence, a recovery was had in the sum of
ten thousand dollars, the value of the animal. On writ of
error from this court the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania was affirmed, it being held that, at least in the
absence of legislation by Congress on the subject, the effect of
the commerce clause of the Constitution was not to deprive
the State of Pennsylvania of auth6rity to legislate as to those
within its jurisdiction conicerning the liability of common
carriers, although such legislation might to some extent indirectly affect interstate commerce. The ruling in the Hughes
case in effect but reiterated the principle adopted and applied
in Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133,
where an Iowa statute forbidding a common carrier from
contracting to exempt itself from liability was sustained as to
a person who was injured during an interstate transportation.
The contention, that because in the cases referred to, the
operation of the state laws, which were sustained, was to
augment th6 liability of a carrier, therefore the rulings are
inapposite here, where the consequence of the application of
the state statute may be to lessen the carrier's liability, rests
upon a distinction without a difference. The result of the
previous rulings was to recognize, in the absence of action by
Congress, the power of the States to legislate, and of course
this power involved the authority to regulate as the State
might deem best for the public good, without reference to
whether tli&eeffect of the legislation might be to limit or broaden
the responsibility of the carrier. In other words, the assertion
of Federal right is disposed of when we determine the question
of power, and doing so does not involve considering the wisdom

MARTIN v. PITTSBURG & LAKE ERIE R. R.
203 U. S.

295

Oninion of the Court.

with which the lawful power may have been under stated
conditions exerted.
And the views previously stated are adequate to dispose of
the assertion that the Pennsylvania statute is void for repugnancy to the Fourteenth Amendment. If it be conceded, as
contended, that the plaintiff in error could have recovered but
for the statute, it does not follow that the legislature of Pennsylvania in preventing a recovery took away a vested right or
a right of property. As the accident from which the cause of
action is asserted to have arisen occurred long after the passage
of the statute, it is difficult to grasp the contention that the
statute deprived the plaintiff in error of the rights just stated.
Such a contention in reason must rest upon the proposition
that the State of Pennsylvania was without power to legislate
on the subject, a proposition which we have adversely disposed
of. This must be, since it would clearly follow, if the argument
relied upon were maintained, that the State would be without
power on the subject. For it cannot be said that the State
had authority in the premises if that authority did not even
extend to prescribing a rule which would be applicable to
conditions wholly arising in the future.
The contention that because plaintiff in error, as a citizen of
the United States, had a constitutional right to travel from
one State to another he was entitled, as the result of an accident
happening in Pennsylvania, to a cause of action not allowed
by the laws of that State, is in a different form to reiterate
that the Pennsylvania statute was repugnant to the commerce
clause of the Constitution of the United States. Conceding,
if the accident had happened in Ohio, there would have been
a right to recover, that fact did not deprive the State of Pensylvania of its authority to legislate so as- to affect persons
and things within its borders. The commerce clause not being
controlling in the absence of legislation by Congress, it follows
of necessity that the plaintiff in error, as an incident of his
right to travel from State to State, did not possess the privilege,
as to an accident happening in Pennsylvania, to exert a cause

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

203 U. S.

of action not given by the laws of that State, and had no immunity exempting him from the control of the state legislation.
The proposition that the statute denied to the plaintiff in
error the equal protection of the laws because it "capriciously,
arbitrarily, and unnaturally," by the classification made,
deprived railway mail clerks of the rights of passengers which
they might have enjoyed if the statute had not been enacted,
is without merit. The classification ma.Rl by the statute
does not alone embrace railway mail clerks, but places in a
class by themselves such clerks and others whose employment
in and about a railroad subjec't them to greater peril than
passengers in the strictest sense. This general difference
renders it impossible in reason to say, within the meaning of
the Fourteenth Amendment, that the legislature of Pennsylvania, in classifying passengers in the strict sense in one class,
and those who are subject to greater risks, including railway
mail clerks, in another, acted so arbitrarily as to violate the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment affirmed.

NATIONAL LIVE STOCK BANK OF CHICAGO v. FIRST
NATIONAL BANK OF GENESEO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 33.

Argued October 17, 18, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

The proper way to review judgments in actions at law of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Oklahoma where the case was tried without a jury is
by writ of error, not by appeal.
The objection that the Supreme Court of Oklahoma found no facts upon
which a review can be had by this court is untenable, where it appears that
*the case was before that court a second time and that in its opinion it
referred to and adopted its former opinion in which it had made a full
statement and findings of fact.
The endorsement and delivery before maturity of a note secured by a chattel
mortgage by the payee transfers not only the note but by operation of law

