WESTERN UNION TELEG. CO. v. HUGHES.
203 U. S.

505

Opinion of the Court.

the case at bar a jlry was demanded, the trial was before such
jury, and their verdict determined the questions at issue, it
follows that the record should have been brought to this court
by writ of error and not by appeal.
Appeal dismissed.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. HUGHES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.
No. 119.

Argued December 6, 1906.-Decided December 17, 1906..

Where the highest court of the State dismisses the writ of error to the trial
court solely and expressly because of lack of jurisdiction, the result of
the ruling is to determine that the trial cburt is the final court where
the question could be decided, and the writ of error from this court should
be directed to the trial court, and not to the highest Court, although that
court may be clothed with jurisdiction of questions of state and Federal
constitutionality of state laws, and may have discussed, and found without merit, the constitutional question.
104 Virginia, 240, writ of error dismissed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Rush Taggart, with whom Mr. John F. Dillon, Mr.
George H. Fearons and Mr. Francis Raymond Stark were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
There was no appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

By statutes of the State of Virginia a liability to forfeit
the sum of one hundred dollars was imposed upon a telegraph
company for an onission 'to promptly transmit and deliver
telegrams received by it. Code of Virginia, .1887, sees. 1291,

506 1

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

1292. On Nove'mber 2, 1903, Hughes, the defendant in error,
handed to the Western Union Telegraph Company, at its office
in Danville,'Virginia, a message to be transmitted by wire to
Pocahontas, Virginia, and there delivered to the addressee.
In .egular course such message would have gone by way of
Bluefield, West Virginia. It reached that point, but was not
sent further. For failure to make delivery Hughes sued the
telegraph company in the Corporation Court of the ci.ty of
Danville to recover the statutory penalty, and obtained a
judgment. Error was prosecuted to the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia, upon the contention that the transmission
of the message in question was interstate commerce and not
subject to the statutory regulations of 'Virginia, heretofore
referred to. The appellate court, however, held (104 Virginia,
240) that the case was ruled by a prior decision, Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Reynolds, 100 Virginia, 459, and that such
decision had not been overruled by the decision of this court
in Hanley v. Kansas City So. R. Co., 187 U. S. 617, and being
of opinion, as recited on its journal, "that the writ of error
was improvidently awarded," and that it had "no jurisdiction
to entertain the same," dismissed the writ of error.
Treating the order of disnissal as a final judgment, we are
now asked on this writ oferror to reverse the ruling of the
Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia. This, however, we
cannot do. It is immaterial that the Supreme Court of Appeals was vested by the state constitution with appellate
jurisdiction in all cases involving the constitutionality of a
law as being repugnant to the constitution of Virginia or of
the United States, or that in the opinion delivered by the court
it discussed the Federal question and declared it to be without
merit. The fact is undoubted that the writ of error was dismissed solely and expressly because of a want of jurisdiction,
and the effect of the formal entry, adjudging that the court
was without jurisdictionto pass upon the questions presented
by the writ of error, cannot be different from what it would
have been had the court not given expression to its views

REARICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in, Error.

in a written opinion. The necessary result of the ruling that
the court had not jurisdiction of the writ of error was to determine that the trial court was the final court where the questions presented by the writ could be decided; and, hence, the
writ of error should have been directed to that court. Missolfri, K. & T. Ry. v. Elliott, 184 U. S. 530, 539.
Writ of error dismissed.

REARICK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ElRRORl TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE

STATE OF PENNSYL-

VANIA.
No. 47.

Argued October 18, 19. 1906.-Decided December 17, 1906.

Where orders are given for goods sold in a State by an agent of a person
employed to solicit them in another State, and the purchaser is not bound
to pay for the goods until delivery and unless according to sample, the
goods sent specifically to the customer in fulfillment of such orders are,
until. actually delivered, within the protection of the commerce clause
of the Constitution, and a municipal ordinance requiring a license fee
for the solicitation of orders for delivering goods not of the parties' own
manufacture is void as an interference with interstate -commerce against
such an agent..

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Cam pbell M. Voorhees for plaintiff in error, submitted:
It is a principle established beyond controversy that the
legotiation of sales of goods that are in another State for
the purpose of introducing them into the State in which the
negotiation is made is interstate commerce, and is protected
from local interference, burdens, or tax, by clause 3, ยง 8,
Art. I, Constitution of the United States, which provides that
Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several, States and with the Indian

