FAIR HAVEN R. R. CO. v. NEW HAVEN.
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

FAIR HAVEN AND WESTVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. NEW HAVEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ERRORS OF THE STATE OF
CONNECTICUT.
No. 84.

Argued November 5, 6, 1006.-Decided.December 3, 1906.

A general law requiring street railways to keep a certain space between and
outside their tracks paved and repaved and assessing them therefor
amounts, in respect to companies whose charters contain other provisions,
to an amendment thereof, and as such a purpose is consistent with the object of the grant it falls within the reserved power of the State to alter,
amend or repeal the original charter, and if imposed in good faith and not
in sheer oppression the act is not void either as depriving the company of
its property without due process of law or as impairing the contract obligations of the original grant. So held as to law of 1899 of Connecticut.
One of the public rights of great extent of the State is the establishment,
maintenance and care of its highways. West Chicago Railway v. Chicago,
201 U. S. 506.
77 Connecticut, 677, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George D. Watrous and Mr. Talcoti H. Russell for plaintiff in error:
The act of 1895 so far as affects the plaintiff cannot be sustained as an exercise of the police. power. It is not in fact
an exercise of the police power, but an attempt to exercise
the' revenue power. Cooley's Const. Lim., 6th ed., 704;
4th ed., 719; Freund, Police Power, § 3; Rochester Turnpike
Co. v. Joel, 41 App. Div. (N. Y.) 43; Potter's Dwarris, 458.
The taxing power is a separate and distinct power from the
police power.
Whether the railroad paid these assessments or not did not
affect in any way the object sought by the police power. The
act is plainly an example of that class of acts by which it has
been attempted to exercise the power of special assessment

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

203 U. S.

by fixed rules in order to avoid inquiry in reference to the
benefits in each case; the same class of acts which have repeatedly come before this court, and particularly in the case
of Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. -269. Dillon on Mun. Corp.,
§ 752.
The act of 1899 repealed the act of 1895.
Neither the act of 1895 nor that of 1899 can be upheld under
the reserved power of amendment. The legislature cannot
take property under guise of the power of repeal and amendinent. Inland Fisheries Co. v. Holyoke Water Co., 104 Massa(husetts, 446; Holyoke v. Lyman, 15 Wall. 500; Railway Co. v.
Bristol, 151 U. S. 556, do not support the opinion below. See
Railway Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S.684; New York v. O'Brien, 111
N. Y. 1; State v. Haun, 61 Kansas, 146.
An obligation to keep in repair does not include an obligation to repave.
Mr. Leonard M. Daggett and Mr. E. P. Arvine for defendant
in error:
The assessment directed by the act of 1895, treated as an
assessment of benefits, is not a taking of property without
compensation or without due process of law. French v. The
Barber Asphalt Co., 181 U. S.324; Brown v. Drain, 112 Fed.
Rep. 582; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S.97; Scott v. Pitt,
169 N. Y. 521.
The Special Law of 189.5 was an amendment of the plaintiff's charter.
This has been held by the Supreme Court of Connecticut
in this case, interpreting Connecticut legislation and it should
not now be questioned in this court. Bulkley v. N. Y., N. H.
& H. R.R. Co., 27 Connecticut, 479; N. 1. & N. E. R. R. Co.
v. Waterbury, 60 Connecticut, 1; N. Y. & N. E. R. R. Co.'s
Appeal, 62 Connecticut, 527, 538; English v. N: Y., N. H. &
H. R. R. Co., 32 Connecticut, 243.
The power of amendment cannot be restricted to such
measures as might be justified also as an exercise of the police

FAIR HAVEN R. R. CO. v. NEW HAVEN.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

power. The police power may be exercised in derogation of
rights claimed by contract. The power of amendment covers
acts which are not an exercise of the police power; otherwise
the power of amendment is ineffective.
While the power of amendment is not without some restriction, and may not be exercised to impair the obligation
of a contract made by the company pursuant to its charter
rights that it was designed to enable the State to change the
obligation of its contract, that is the terms of the corporate
charter. This certainly may be done by a legislative measure,
passed in good faith, consistent with the scope and object of
the act of incorporation and respecting vested rights of property. Stanislaus County v. San Joaquin Canal Co., 192 U. S.
201; Sioux City Ry. Co. v. Sioux City, 138 U. S. 98; N. Y. &
N. E. R. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 567; Spring Valley Water
Works v. Schottler, 110 U. S. 347; Pennsylvania College Cases,
13 Wall. 190; Tomlinson v. Jessup, 15 Wall. 454; 1 Morawetz,
Corporations, §§ 1093 et seq.
That the act of 1895 was a valid exercise of the police power
is shown by the authorities cited in the opinion of the Supreme
Court of Connecticut in this case.
It is not necessary to determine whether the act of 1895
should be regarded as an act authorizing an assessment of
benefits, that is of taxation, or one imposing a new condition
on the original grant. 'Lincoln St. Ry. Co. v. Lincoln, 84 N. W.
Rep. 802.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the validity of an assessment of $36,879,
against plaintiff in error, for the cost of paving between its
tracks and for one foot on each side thereof. Plaintiff in error
operates a double track electric railway through West Chapel
street in New Haven.
In pursuance of certain laws of the State the court of cornmuon council, through a contractor, caused the street to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

paved with sheet asphalt. The work was begun in June, 1897,
and completed in October or November of the same year.
The city paid for the work, and, as provided by the statutes,
assessed against plaintiff in error its proportion of the cost,
to wit, $36,879. On appeal to the Superior Court for New
Haven County, that court reduced the assessment to $5,823,
and entered judgment against plaintiff in error for that sum.
The learned judge of the Superior Court expressed the contentions of the parties and his conclusions as follows:
"It is contended by the defendant that the
assessment
against the plaintiff is legal and valid under the act of 1895.
Charter of New Haven, page 80.
"It is contended by the plaintiff that the act of 1895 is
repealed by the act of 1899, Special Laws of 1899, p. 181; and
if it is not repealed, the act of 1895 is unconstitutional and
void.
"Inasmuch as I hold and rule that the act of 1895 is repealed by the act of 1899, it is unnecessary to pass upon the
constitutionality of the former. The intention and effect of
the latter act is to repeal the former. The last act covers the
whole subject-matter of assessments for benefits and damages
arising from paved streets, and provides expressly for the
assessments of benefits and damages for pavements aheady
constructed in West Chapel street.
"This conclusion entitles the plaintiff to relief from the
assessment as laid by the amendment to the report of the
bureau of compensation; and it is, therefore, ordered that the
assessment be reduced to the sum of $5,823, as recommended
by the bureau of compensation."
And the judgment of the Superiqr Court recited:
"The asphalt pavement in said street is not a direct benefit.
to the plaintiff or its property, but on the other hand is a direct
damage to the plaintiff and its property, inasinudh as it largely
increases the expense of repairing the roadway between the
rails, and of general repairs to the track, ties, and structure of
the railroad. The only benefit to the railroad is such as

FAIR HAVEN R. R. CO. v. NEW HAVEN.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

results from the general improvement to the locality by reason
of such pavement tending to increase the population and traffic
in that section of the city. Such benefit does not exceed the
amount of $5,823."
Upon the appeal of the city the judgment was reversed by
the Supreme Court of Errors. 75 Connecticut, 442. On the
return of the case to the Superior Court that court rendered
judgment dismissing the application of plaintiff in error, and
confirming and establishing the assessment of $36,879. The
judgment was reversed by the Supreme Court of Errors and
the case remanded to the Superior Court, with directions to
deduct from the assessment the cost of repair. In accordance
with this direction the Superior Court deducted from the
assessment the sum of $3,590.85, and confirmed the assessment less such deduction. This judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of Errors.
The statutes under which the street was paved and the assessment against plaintiff in error was made may be summarized
as follows: Section 9 of the charter of plaintiff in error authorized the common council of the city to establish such
regulations in regard to the railway as might be required for
"paving . . . in and along the streets," and the company was required to conform to the grades then existing or
thereafter established. And it was provided that the company should "keep that portion of the streets and avenues.over which their road or way shall be laid down, with a space
of two feet on each side of the track or way, in good and sufficient repair, without expense to the city or town of New
Haven, or the owners of land adjoining said track or way."
It was provided (section 13) that the act might be altered,
amended or repealed at the pleasure of the general assembly.
The charter was amended July 9, 1864, and the company
was authorized to lay down its tracks and run its cars through
Chapel street, subject to the prohibitions of the ninth section
of its original charter.
In 1893 a general law was passed applicable to all railways,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

by section 6 of which it was provided that every street railway
was required to keep so much of the street or highway as is
included within its tracks, and a space of two feet on the outer
side of the outer rails, in repair, to the satisfaction of the
authorities of the city, town or borough, which was bound
by law to maintain such street or highway. More expensive
material, however, was not to be required than that used on
the other parts of the street, except, however, for a space of
one foot on each side of each rail, unless a more expensive kind
of material was required in the order permitting the original
location of such railway. If the railway company did not
make such repairs after notice, it was provided that the city
might do so, and recover the expense thereof from the company. And it was provided that the act should be deemed
an amendment to the charters of all existing railway companies.
On July. 1, 1895, an act was passed authorizing and' empowering the court of common council of the city to issue
bonds for the construction of permanent pavements, and providing that all.pavements laid by authority of the act should
be laid 'upon the grade of the street, and the city was empowered to collect the cost thereof from the owners of abutting
land. The act contained the following provisions as to railways:
"On all streets occupied by the track, or tracks, of any railway company, or companies, said company or companies shall
be assessed and shall severally pay to the city the cost of
paving and repaving the full length, and nine feet wide for
each and every, line of track of such railway or railways, now
existing, or that may hereafter be laid in any street of said
city."
By supplement to this act, passed in March, 1897, it was
provided that in estimating the cost of each square yard to
be assessed the entire cost of laying the pavement and the
agreement to keel) the pavement in repair for a period not

exceeding fifteehi yearns should be considered.
An act passed April 28, 1899, provided for an assessment

FAIR HAVEN R. R. CO. v. NEW HAVEN.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court..

upon the "grand list" one mill on the dollar for the paving
of streets, to be expended only for the original construction of
pavements. There was a provision for the laying of benefits
and damages, and a specification of limits of the assessment
varying 'with the kind of material used for paving. Assessment of benefits and damages for the pavement on certain
streets and on West Chapel street were required to be laid in
accordance with the provision of the act. Any one aggrieved
by the assessment was given the right of appeal to the Superior
Court. The act was declared to be an amendment to the
charter of the city, and acts inconsistent therewith were repealed. The liability of street railway companies under the
general laws was preserved.
The statutes and the assessments made under them are
attacked by plaintiff in error as repugnant to the contract
clause of the Constitution of the United States and the Fourteenth Amendment.
1. The contention that the assessment was unconstitutional,
even though the act of 1895 is constitutional, was commented
on by the Supreme Court of Errors on the second appeal as
follows:
"Other claims new to the case are made, to the general
effect that as the street had been paved twenty-three years
before and the plaintiff had been assessed a portion of the cost
thereof, and especially as the city had not shown the need of
the new pavement as a means of repair, an unconstitutional
use of the act would result if the present charge against the
plaintiff -was enforced. These claims have no foundation
either in the application or pleadings and, therefore, have no
-standing in the case. We do not hesitate to say, however,
without discussion, that in view of the pleadings, which did
not put the plaintiff to the proof of the necessity of the new
work as a means of repair and proper maintenance of the
street, the facts indicated could not be held sufficient to accomplish the results claimed for them."
Plaintiff in error contests this conclusion of the court, and
voi.. cci-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

insists that the claims were made on the first appeal of the
case and were overlooked by the court. It is questionable
whether we may dispute the ruling of the Supreme Court of
Errors as to what the record in the case before it showed.
But, granting we have such power, the record does not justify
the assertion of plaintiff in error. A bill of exceptions was
tendered by plaintiff in error to the Superior Court, of certain
claims, and requests for rulings made by plaintiff in error,
so that the questions arising thereon could be considered by
the Supreme Court of Errors in connection with those by the
appeal of the city, and one of the claims was "that the repavement, if required at all, could only be required when it
was found to be a satisfactory, or the most satisfactory,
method of repair, which did not appear in this case."
The bill of exceptions stated also that the court did not
rule upon the requests, because it was of opinion that the act
of 1895, so far as it affects the pavement in question, was
repealed by the act of 1899, "and therefore decided against
said requests." The court allowed the bill of exceptions, and
expressed the reason as follows: "Being of the opinion that
some, at least, of the questions arising upon the above bill
of exceptions will arise again, if a new trial of this cause should
be had, the above bill of exceptions is hereby allowed, and ordered to be made a part of the record."
But this, does not militate with the ruling of the Supreme
Court of Errors nor indicate that the court did not consider
the claims and requests of plaintiff in error. The ruling was
based upon the application or pleadings, and it is not contended that the court's view of the application or pleadings
was erroneous. Indeed, on the return of the case to the
Superior Court an application was made by plaintiff inerror
for leave to amend its application by adding six paragraphs,
setting out the grounds indicated abdve and other grounds
why the assessment was an unconstitutional exercise of the
authority in terms conferred by the act of 1895. The motion
was denied on the ground (1) that the court had no power to

FAIR HAVEN R. R. CO. v. NEW HAVEN.
203 U. S.

Opinion fthe Court.

allow the amenlment, and (2) that the amendment ought
not as a matter of discretion to be allowed. The ruling was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Errors. Justifying its ruling, the court denied that it thereby enforced a stringent rule
of pleading, but said it enforced only the familiar on which
confined the evidence to the matters pleaded, and that it was
the duty of plaintiff in error to have made its application full
enough to covei all the claims desired to be made.
(2) It will be observed that the Superior Court ruled that
the act of. 1895 was repealed by the act of 1899, and that the
latter act covered the whole subject-matter of assessment for
benefits and damages accruing from paved streets, and provl'cded expressly for the assessments of benefits and damages
for pavements which had been constructed on West Chapel
street. The Supreme Court of Errors reversed the ruling and
sustained the contention of the city that the assessment should
be made under the act of 1895. The court said: "The difference of view explains the situation disclosed by the case. The
city bases its claim to the larger sum assessed by it upon the
rule of recovery laid down in the act of 1895; the railway
company claims to limit its liability at least to the smaller
sum assessed by the court upon the strength of the rule of
assessment prescribed in the act of 1899, as interpreted by the
court and accepted by the company." And after the construction and discussion of the provision of the two acts the
court said: "The situation is, we think, susceptible of a simple
explanation. The act of 1899 is to be taken in its natura!
meaning. Its provisions relating to assessment were intended
to deal only with assessments of benefits and damages in favor
of or against owners of land whose land adjoins the street in

which the pavement is laid, by reason of' some benefit or
damage received affecting its value.* The railway companies
were not meant to be and are not to be regarded as within
their scope. No change in the burden already upon them
for the completed work was intended to be effected."
8o deciding between the statutes, the court adjudged that

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

the act of 1895 was constitutional, on the ground that it was
a proper exercise of the police power of the State, and on the
ground that the act was an exertion of the power reserved by
the State of altering, amending or repealing the charter of the
railway company. If either ground is tenable the judgment
must be affirmed. We. will place our decision on the second
ground, as being of more local character, and because the
exercise of the power expressed only conies under our review
in its excesses.
We accept the decision of the Supreme Court of Errors,
that the statutes were intended as an exercise of the power
of amendment reserved by the State, althougli plaintiff in
error contends that such was not, their intention. The court
treated the question involved as primarily one on statutory
construction, and " hest approached," to use the language of
the court, "by an examination of the statutory situation,"
and upon that examination pronounced its conclusion that
the act of 1895 was in effect an amendment of the plaintiff's
charter," citing Bulkicy v. New York & Net, Haven R. R. Co.,
27 Connecticut, 479: New York &. New England R. R. Co. v.
Waterbury, 60 Connecticut, 1. Was such an amendment in
excess of the power of the State? The limitation upon the
power of amendment of charters of corporations has been
defined by this court several times. It is said in one case that
such power may be exercised to make any alteration or amendment in a charter granted that will not defeat or substantially
impair the object of the grant or any rights which have vested
under it, which thelegislature may deem necessary to secure
either the object of the grant or. any other public right not
expressly granted away by the charter. Holyoke v. Lyman,
15 Wall. 500, 522. In another case it was said that the "alterations must be reasonable; they must be made in good faith, and
be consistent with the scope and object of the act of incorporation. Sheer oppression and wrong. cannot be- inflicted under
the guise of amendment or alteration." Shields v. Ohio, 95
U. S. 319, 324.

Later cases, have repeated these definitions.

FAIR HAVEN R. R. CO. v. NEW HAVEN.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 720; Greenwood v. Freight
Co., 105 U. S. 13; Close v. Glenwood Cemetery, 107 U. S. 476.
In the Sinking Fund Cases, it was said that whatever regulations of a corporation could have been inserted in its charter
can be added by amendment. All the cases are reviewed and
their principles affirmed in Stanislaus Comnty v. San Joaquin
C. & I. Co., 192 U. S. 201, and water rates fixed by the board
of supervisors of the county of Stanislaus under a law of the
State, sustained through the income of the company, were
reduced from one and a half per cent per month to six per cent
per annum.
In the light of these cases let us examine what the statutes
of Connecticut require of plaintiff in error. I3y its original
charter (1S62) plaintiff in error was required to keel) the street
between its tracks, with a space of two feet on each side of the
tracks, in good and sufficient repair. In the amendment of
the charter in 1864 this obligation was retained, and also in
the public acts of 1893. In the act of 1595 the duty of paving
and repairing was imposed on all railway compalies. We shall
assume, for the purpose of our discussion, that the duty to
repair did not include the duty to palve and repave, although
much can be said and cases can be cited against. the aSsuilrption.
Does the change and increase of burden upon the plaintiff in
error come within the limitations upon the reserved power of
the State? Has it no proper relation to the objects of the grant
to the company or any of the public rights of the State? Can
it be said to be exercised in mere oppression and wrong? All
of these (tuestions must be answered in the negative. Tile
company was given the right to occupy the strects. It, exercised this right first with a single.track, and alterwards with
a double track. Before granting this right the State certainly
could have, and reasonably could have, put upon the company
the duty of pa;\ihg as well as of repairing Such requirement
would have been consistent with the object of the grant. It
is yet consistent with the object of the grant. It is not imposed in sheer oppression and wrong and the good faith of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

State cannot be questioned. It is imposed in the exercise of
one of the public rights of the State, the establishment, maintenance ard care of its highways. The extent of this right is
illustrated by West Chicago Railroad Co. v. Chicago, 201 U. S.
506, and cases cited.
Judgment affirmed.

CHATTANOOGA FOUNDRY AND PIPE WORKS v. CITY
OF ATLANTA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 94.

Argued November 9, 12. 1006.-Decided December 3, 1906.

By express provision of the act of July 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 209, a city is a
person within the meaning of section 7 of that act, and can maintain
an action against a party to a combination unlawful under the act by
reason of which it has been forced to pay a price for an artick. above
what it is reasonably worth.
A person whose property is diminished by a payment of money wrongfully
induced is injured in his property.
Where Congiess has power to make acts illegal it can authorize a recovery
for damage caused by those acts although suffered wholly within the
boundaries of one State.
Although the s:ao may not have been so connected with the unlawful
combination as to be unlawful, the motives and inducements to make it
may be so affect(d by the combination as to constitute a wrong.
The five year limitation in § 1047, Rev. Stat., does not apply to suits brought
under § 7 of the act of July 2, 1890, but by the silence of that act the
matter-is left under § 721, Rev. Stat., to the local law.
The three year limitation in § 2773, Tennessee Code, for actions for injuries to personal or real property, applies to injuries falling upon some
object more definite than the plaintiff's total wealth and the general
ten year limitation in § 2776 for all actions not expressly provided for
controls action's of this nature brought under § 7 of the act of July 2, 1890.
127 Fed. Rep. 23; 101 Fed. Rep. 900, affirmed.

THE

facts are state() in the opinion.

