GUY v. DONALD.
Syllabus.

203 U. S.

and "injured in his business or property," the latter being the
language of the act of Congress. A man is injured in his
property when his property is diminished. He would not be
said to have suffered an injury to his )roperty unless the harm
fell upon soine object more definite and less ideal than his
total wealth. A trade-mark,. or a trade-name, or a title, is
property, and is regarded as an object capable of injury in
various ways. But when a man is made poorer by an extravagant bill we do not regard his wealth as a unity, or the
tort, if there is one, as directed against that unity as an object.
We do not go behind the person of the sufferer. We say that
he has been defrauded or subjected to duress, or whatever it
may be, and stop there. It was urged that the opening article to which we have referred expressed an intention to bar
all civil actions, but that hardly helps the construction of any
particular article following, since the dragiet at the end,
2776, catches all cases not "expressly provided for." On the
whole case we agree witb the court below.
Judgment affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM

dissent.

GUY r. DONALD.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 90.

Argued November 8, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

While one carrying on private business may be answerable for the. torts
of another to whom he entrusts part of the work, he is not answerable
for the torts of one whom he cannot select, control or discharge.
The members of a pilot association recognized by state statute and to which
every pilot licensed by the State belongs, are not to be held liable as
partners to owners of piloted vessels for the negligence of each other,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellants.

203 U. S.

because the association collects the fees for pilotage and after paying
certain expenses distributes them to those on the active list according
to the number of days they have been on duty. So held as to Virginia
Pilot Association.
135 Fed. Rep. 429 reversed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. D. Tucker Brooke and Mr. R. C. Marshall for appellants:
While for a long time participation in common loss and
profits of a common business was one of the most conclusive
tests of copartnership relations, yet the later and best opinion
now is that this is not necessarily so. The rule now is that
the question of partnership or no partnership is not to be
settled by arbitrary tests; that to attempt to do so is mischievous, resulting in error. In the absence of conclusive
tests the essential element of copartnership is that the parties
are mutually principals of and agents for each other. Beecher
v. Bush, 45 Michigan, 188; Meachem's Elements of Partnership, §§ 18 and 63.
In the case of pilot associations the individual pilots are
not, and under our statutes cannot be, each the agents of the
other members.
Our entire system of statutes on this subject show that the
individual pilots are quasi-public officers; they derive their
authority not from the association, but from the State; their
service is personal, and in its performance they represent only
themselves, individually, with a responsibility only to the
State; their right to compensation is given to them individually by statute, as officers of the State; their fees are fixed by
statute, as the fees of other state ofAicers are; and there can be
no copartnership in state officers.
As the parties who are sought to be held as partners cannot,
under the law, occupy the relation each of principal for himself
and agent for his associates (because each renders only a personal service), no presumption of copartnership, arising from
the participation in the profits of the concern, can exist, be-

GUY v. DONALD.
203 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

cause the relation of partnership inter,sese cannot legally exist
between them.
These pilots are quasi-public officers, or at least invested
with a personal trust, and, this being so, they cannot occupy
the relation of principals for themselves and agents for their
associates (without which, a copartnership cannot exist), for,
under the principles of the common law, it is against public
policy for a copartnership to exist in public offices. Jones v.
"Perchard,2 Esp. 507; Canfield v. Hard, 6 Connecticut, 180;
see Gaston v. Drake, 1 Nevada, 175; Seely v. Back, 42 Missouri,
143; Bowen v. Richardson, 133 Massachusetts, 293; Gould
v. Kendall, 15 Nebraska, 549; Warner v. Griswold, 8 Wend.
665; Wolcott v. Gibson, 51 Illinois, 69.
The fact that the State imposes a "personal" obligation
to perform the duty of pilotage affects the legality of such a
partnership, in that it makes them public officers, and so
renders it impossible to form a legal partnership.
It is the personal element which distinguishes the case of
the pilot from that cited of a railroad company or common
carrier. A corporation cannot, from the nature of things, be
a public officer; hence the cases are not analogous.
The pilot association pleads no wrong in its defense, since
it denies the existence of the partnership and cites the illegality
only to show that, had it desired, it could not have formed one.
Had it claimed to be an "illegal partnership," then its illegality
might not have been set up.
If a court may take judicial cognizance of the statute laws
of the State, it may also take cognizance of the rules and regulations of a body created by those statutes, by them invested
with the power of making rules and regulations supplementary
to the provisions of the statutes.
City of Dundee, 103 Fed. Rep. 696; S. C., 108 Fed. Rep. 679,
in which the exact question involved here arose, and in the
same way, upon the Pennsylvania pilot laws, which are identical with those of Virginia. See also Mason v. Ervine, 27 Fed.
Rep. 459.
VOL. ooim-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

203 U. S.

Mr. Robert M. Hughes for appellee:
There is such a community of profits and losses shown as
to constitute the Virginia Pilot Association a partnership.
Fleming v. Lay, 109 Fed. Rep. 952; Brown v. Higginbotham, 5
Leigh, 583; Keasley v. Codd, 2 C. & P. (12 E. C. L.) 408; Davison v. Holden, 55 Connecticut, 103. As to liability of members
of unincorporated associations, and of corporations whose
organization was absolutely void, see McGovern v. Roberlson, 5
L. R. A. 589; Kaiserv. Bank, 56 Iowa, 104; Jones v. Mlrphy, 93
Virginia, 214; Robbins v. Butle,, 24 Illinois, 387, 426; Railway
Co. v. Pearson, 128 Massachusetts, 445; Frost v. Walker, 60
Maine, 468; Kramer v. Arthur, 7 Pa. St. 165; Ricker v. Trust
Co., 140 Massachusetts, 346, 348.
It is no answer to this that the pilots did not intend to
form a partnership. Men always intend the legal consequences of their own acts, and if their acts constituted a
partnership, they cannot be heard to say that such was not
their intention. 1 Lindlcy on Part., 5th ed., 11; Fleming v.
Lay, 109 Fed. Rep. 955, 956. See, also, Davison v. Holden, 55
Comecticut, 103; Meachem on Part., § 43,. p. 31; Jones v.
Clifford, 5 Florida, 510.
Even if the pilots are public officers this does not affect the
question; they are not such public officers as cannot go into
partnership. While a public officer cannot form a partnership
so as to allow his partner to perform any of his duties, which,
to a certain extent, are personal, this does not prevent two
public officers from going into a partnership, each performing
his own duties and merely dividing the profits. There is
nothing personal in the act of the pilots. The Virginia statute
requires the master of a vessel to take the first one that offers.
Hence, so far as the ship at leasf is concerned, she has not
the .opportunity of any selection as among them. They are
classified according to length of service, and all are supposed
to be equally competent.
Independent of this general principle, the Virginia law
recognizes the right of pilots to form a partnership. Act of

GUY v. DONALD.203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1775, 6 Hten. Stat. 490: acts of 1792 and 1802, 1 Va. Code,
1803, 240 and 417; act of 1819, Rev. Code, 1819, 121. And
see Code of 1849, and present Code, § 1960.
Eiv-n if the pilot association is an illegal partnership, this
can only be set up as among tliemselves and is no answer to a
suit against them by a third party. Brett v. Beckwith, 3
Jur. N. S. 31; Meachein on Part., § 20, p. 16; Hale v. Hale,
4 Beav. 369; United States v. Baxter, 46 Fed. Rep. 350.
The members of such a partnership are liable for each
other's torts, if in furtherance of the objects of the association,
and if the fruits of their labors are received by the association.
Hyrne v. Erwin, 23 S. Car. 226; Fleming v. Lay, 109 Fed. Rep.
952; Mellors v. Shaw, 1 Best & S. (101 E. C. L.) 437; Ashworth
v. Stanwix, 3 C. & E. (107 E. C. L.) 700; United States v.
Baxter, 46 Fed. Rep. 350; Cobb v. Abbott, 14 Pick. 289; Strang
v. Bradner, 114 U. S. 555.
The pilots, if not a partnership, are jointly liable.
This is well settled by a number of decisions, as in case
of joint owners of stage coaches. Champion v. Bostwick, 18
Wend. 174; Moreton v. Harden, 4 B. & C. (10 E. C. L.) 223;
Railroad Co. v. Ross, 31 N. E. Rep. 412; Cobb v. Abbott, 14
Pick. 289; Steel v. Lester, L. E. 3 C. P. D. 121; Connelly v.
Davison, 15 Minnesota, 428, 519.
MR. JUSTICE, ItOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us on a certificate from the Circuit
Court of Appeals. It is a libel brought by the owners of a
steamer against the members of the Virginia Pilot Association,
and seeks to hold thefm all liable for the alleged negligence of
Guy, one of their number. For the proceedings in the District Court see 127 Fed. Rep. 228; 135 Fed. Rep. 429. The
negligence occurred when Guy was acting as pilot of the
steamer and led to a collision, for which the owners of the
steamer -paid damages to the other vessel in order to (nd a
suit. The questions certified are (1) whether thie members of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

the association are partners on the facts set forth; (2) whether,
if.partners, they are liable to owners of piloted vessels for the

negligence of each other; (3) whether, if not. technically'partners, they nevertheless are so liable.
The facts appear in the third article of the libel, which was
excepted to, and in answers to interrogatories. They are as
follows: The defendants are a voluntary, unincorporated
association. By their agreement they take tul'ns inl boarding
vessels r(luire(d by law
otherwise would be paid
are paid, except in eases
to the association upon

to take a pilot, and the fees, which
to the Pilot that boardel the vessel,
of national vessels and disputed bills,
bills made out b y it, and go into a

eonmnon fund, from which, the association l)pys the expenses
of the business, including office rent. At the time of the accident the net profits were divided according to the number of
days the several pilots were upon the active list. The constitution anl by-laws of the association are exhibited and will
be referred to. It is proper to add here a few words as to the

Virginia law. By the Code of 18'87 a Board of Commissioners
is instituted to examine persons applying for branches as
pilots; and the conmissioners are given "full authority to
make, such rules as they may think necessary for the proper
government and regulation of pilots licensed by them."
§ 1955. There are details as to the qualification and classification of pilots and their duties, including a requirement, as

to boats, of the pilot "or the company to which he belongs."
§ 1960. Acting as pilot without authority is punished. § 1963.
Certain vessels are required to take the first pilot that offers
his services or to pay full pilotage. § 1965. See 1976. The

amount of pilotage is fixed. § 1969. A personal liability is
imposed for the amount, and it is to be noticed that it is a
liability to the individual pilot employed. § 1978. The pilot's
right to collect his account is fortified by a
The Board of ('onmissioners is authorized to
troversy between licensed pilots or between
ii:ster, owner, or consignec of a vessel, and. to

penalty. § 1979.
decide any cona pilot and the
enter judgment,

GUY v. DONALD.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which, if for money, may be collected by a sheriff, etc. § 1980.
But a judgment of suspension against a pilot is limited iii
general to between one and twelve months. § 1981. And the
board cannot decide upon the liability of "a, pilot" to any
party injured by his negligence. § 1982. Pilots demanding
or receiving more or less than their lawful fees are subjected
to a forfeiture. § 1985. And certain further duties are prescribed.
The rules of the Board of Commissioners provide for the
appointment by them of a supervisory board from the Pilot
Association, to report to the President of the Board of Commissioners all cases of insubordination, breach of rules, etc.,
or any misdemeanor, afloat or on shore, on the part of any
member of the association. A pilot desiring to go off duty
for five days or longer is required to apply to the Board of
Commissioners. Suspensions, by whomsoever ordered, are
to be reported within twenty-four hours to the president
of the board, and are to be acted upon by the board. All
pilots are required to look out for their turns, and each pilot
is held responsible for whatever turn he may hold upon the
list, officers being prohibited from having anything to do with
the, swapping of turns. It will be seen that the rules of the
board, made under the authority of this statute, recognize
the association, as does the code, more vaguely, in § 1960,
quoted above. The rules also recognize the substitution of
turns for the free competition of which there arc traces in
the code. The rules tacitly assume that every pilot. is a member of the association. All punishment and suspension-is in,
the hands of the board, except, as may be added here, that
the by-laws of the association impose a fine of ten dollars for
a first violation of the rules of the association, of twenty
dollars for a; second offense, and provide that a third shall
be reported to the Board of Pilot Commissioners. Thus substantially the whole government of the Association is in the
hands of the Board.
The questions certified very properly go beyond the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

of the existence of a partnership. As long as the matter to
he considered is del)ated in artificial terms there is danger
of being led
a technical definition to0Ny
apply a certain name,
:i1l then to deduce consequences which have no relation to
l1e groiuids (Oi which the namie was applied. The substance
of the, ease is Ihis: A inan who is responsible before the law
is a;lleged to have co)inittel a tort. It is proposed to make
othecr nien pay for it who not only have not commanded it or
any act; of which it was the natural consequence, but who
would have p)rvcentcd it if they coulid, and who have done
what they could to prevent it, so far as the qualifications and
employment of the pilot were not taken out of their hands
by law. Why they should have to pay is the problem recurring through agency in all its forms, and whatever may be
thought of some of- the reasons that have been offered when
the obligation has been imposed, it is certain that something
more anot l('tt(i nIust be found than that the defendants
divide the pay for the work that ihey have done, or that it
is a convenien'(e to the party aggrleved to discover a full
p)urse to which to resort.
Whether the ground be policy or tradition, such a liability
is imposed, as we all know, in many cases. When a man is
carrying on business in his private interest and entrusts a
part of the work to aiother, the torld has agreed to make
him answer for that other as if lie had done the work himself.
But there is always a liiiitation. It is true that he is not
excused by care in selection or orders sufficient to secure right
conduct, if obeyed. But when lie could not select, could not
control, and couhlI not (lis(h'rge the guilty man, he does not
answer for his torls. ,,\s a fainiiar instance, the servants of
an independent contractor :ire not the servants of the contractee. The liability of a vessel when in the hands of a compulsory pilot, is not p ut upont the ground that the pilot' is the
agent or servant of the 6wners, and, therefore, does not. bear
upon the question. The China, 7 Wall. 53. Now, we are
not curious to inquire wvhat form of test shall be accepted as

GUY v. DONALD.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the most profound for the existence of a partnership when
considering liability for debts; but it is plain that when we
are considering a liability for torts under the circumstances
supposed no stricter or different criterion ought to be applied
than in those cases where agency is, the admitted groind.
The rule, however stated, presses to the verge of general
principles of liability. It must not be pressed beyond the
point for which we can find a rational support..
So far as appears, the Virginia Pilot Association had no
one of the three powers which we have mentioned. Seemingly
it could neither select nor discharge its members, as certainly
it could not control or direct them in the performance of their
duties as pilots. To take the last first, it is quite plain that
the Virginia code contemplates a bond of mutual personal
liability between the master of a vessel and the pilot on board.
If we imagine such a pilot performing his duties within sight
of the assembled association, he still would be sole master of
his course. If all of his fellows passed a vote on the spot that
he should change and shouted it through a speaking trumpet,
he would owe no duty to obey, but would be as free as before
to do what he thought best. Then as to the selection of ineinbers, there is no indication of any in the code, the rules of the
board, or the constitution and by-laws of the asso.ciation.
Nothing is said about membership, and the implication is
plain that a condition of the association being permitted by
the board to exist is that every pilot belongs to it. Probably,
while it exists, a pilot scarcely would find it possible to compete from the outside. It is still plainer that the only provision for expulsion is that which would follow upon a pilot's
being deprived of his license. The association has no power
over that.
All that there is upon which to base a joint liability is that
the pilots, instead of, taking their fees as they earn them,
accomplish substantially the same result by mingling theril in
the first place and then, after paying expenises, distribhuting
them to those on the active list according to the number of

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

days they respectively have been there. Apart from the
possible slight difference between the proportion of days on
the active list and days of active service, the case is the same
as if each pilot kept his fees, merely contributing to keep up

a common office from which his bills might be sent out and
where a few details of common interest could be attended to.
In the latter case this suit hardly would have been brought.
The distinction between it and the one at bar is not great
enough to justify a different result. See The City of Dundee,
108 Fed. Rep. 679, 684; S. C., 103 Fed. Rep. 696.
The second and third questions certified are answered No.

UNITED STATES v. DALCOUR.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRI(T COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR Tl, SOTHEItN I)ISTRtCT OF FLORIDA.
No. 69.

Argued October 30, 31. 19006-Decided December 3, 1906.

Section 6 of the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, recognizes that there arc
exceptions other than those enumerated therein in which appeals to this
court at that time provided for by law were saved; and this applies to
the appeal by the United States under § 11 of the act of June 22,,1860, 12

Stat. 87, from adverse decisions of the District Court of the United States
in cases to establish land titles in Florida.
Zfhe provision in § 3 of the act of June 22, 1860, that no claims for lands
in Florida could be presented to the District Court of the United States
that had been theretofore presented before any board of-commissioners
or other public officers acting under authority of Congress and rejected
as being fraudulent, held to bar a claim which had been presented to
a judge of the Superior Court of Florida under the act of May 23, 1828,
4 Stat. 284, and by him refused and rejected on the ground of, an unwarranted alteration of the register of the grant in a particular material
to its validity.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

