OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

203 U. S.

requirement of the payment of ten dollars to the auditor for
the use of the State does not amount to a taking of property
without due process or an unjust discrimination. Charlotte
Railroad v. Gibbs, 142 U. S. 386; People v. Squire, 145 U. S.
175. If the act is valid,. that is.
The objections going to the -expediency or the hardships and
injustice of the act, and its alleged inconsistency with the state
constitution and laws, are matters with which we have nothing
to do on this writ of error, and the question whether the provision that the corporation shall not be required to pay any
fee to any one theretofore appointed an attorney is in,'alid or
not, requires no consideration on this record.
Judgment affirmed.

.PETTIBONE v. NICHOLS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT
No. 249.

OF IDAHO.

Argued October 10, 11, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

The duty of a Federal court, to interfere, on habeas corpus, for the protection
of one alleged to be restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution
or laws of the United States must often be controlled by the special circumstances of the case, and except in an emergency demanding prompt
action, the party held in custody by a State, charged with crime-against
its laws, will be left to stand his trial in the state court, which, it will be
assumed, will enforce, as it has the power to do equally with a Federal
court,. any right asserted under and secured by the supreme law of the
land.
Even if the arrest and deportation of one alleged to be a fugitive from
justice may have been effected by fraud and connivance arranged be
tween the executive authorities of the demanding and surrendering
States so as to deprive him of any opportunity to apply before deportation to a court in the surrendering State for his discharge, and even if on
such application to any court, state or Federal, he would have been discharged, he cannot, so far as the Constitution oi the laws of the United
States are concerned-when actually in the demanding State, in the
custody of its authorities for trial, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof
-be discharged on habeas corpus by the Federal -court. It would be

PETTIBONE v. NICHOLS.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

improper and inappropriate in the Circuit Court to inquire as to the
demandmotives guiding or controlling the action of the Governors of tile
ing and surrendering States.
No obligation is imposed by the Constitption or laws of the United States
on the agent of a demanding State to so'time the arrest of one alleged to be
a fugitive from justice and so conduct his deportation from the surrendering State as to afford him a convenient opportunity, before some judicial
tribunal, sitting in the latter State, upon habeas corpus or otherwise, to
test the question whether he was a fugitive from justice and as such
liable, under the act of Congress, to be conveyed to the demanding State
for trial there.

is an appeal from a judgment of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Idaho refusing, upon
habeas corpus, to discharge appellant who alleged that he was
held in custody by the Sheriff of Canyon County, in that State,
in violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States.
It appears that on the twelfth day of February, 1906 a criminal complaint verified by the oath of the Prosecuting Attorney
of that county, and charging Pettibone with having murdered
Frank Steunenberg at Caldwell, Idaho, on the thirtieth day
of December, 1905, was filed in the office of the Probate Judge.
Thereupon, a warrant of arrest based upon that complaint
having been issued application was made to the Governor of
Idaho for a -requisition upon the Governor of Colorado (in
which State the accused was alleged then to be) for the arrest
of Pettibone and his delivery to the agent of Idaho, to be conveyed to the latter State and there dealt with in accordance
with law. The papers on which the Governor of Idaho based
his requisition distinctly charged that Pettibone was in that
State at the time Steunenberg was murdered and was a fugitive
from its justice.
A requisition by the Governor of Idaho was accordingly
issued and was duly honored by the Governor of Colorado,
who issued a warrant commanding the arrest of Pettibone and
his delivery td the authorized agent of Idaho, to be conveyed
to the latter State. Pettibone was arrested under that warrant
and carried to Idaho by its agent, and was there delivered by
order of the Probate Judge into the custody of the Warden
VOL, cciii-13
THIS

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement Qf the Case.

203 U. S.

of the state penitentiary, the jail of the county being deemed
at that time an unfit place.
On the twenty-third day of February, 1906,Pettibone sued
out a writ of habeas corpus from the Supreme court of Idaho.
The Warden made a return, stating, the circumstances under
which the accused came into his -custody, and also that the
charge against Pettibone was then under investigation by the
grand jury. To this return the accused made an answer
embodying the same matters as were alleged in the application
for the writ of habeas corpus, and charging, in substance, that
his prese nee in Idaho had been procured by connivance, conspiracy, and fraud-on the part of the executive officers of Idaho,
and that his .detention was in violation of the provisions of
the Constitution of the United States and of the act of Congress
relating to fugitives from justice.
Subsequently, March 7, 1906, the grand jury returned an
indictment against Pettibone, William D. Haywood, Charles H.
Moyer, and John L. Simpkins, charging them with the murder
of Steunenberg on the thirtieth of December, 1905, at Caldwell,
Idaho. Having been arrested and being in custody under that
indictment, the officer holding Pettibone made an amended
return stating the fact of the above indictment and that he
was then held under a bench warrant based thereon.
At the hearing before the Supreme Court of the State the
officers, having Pettibone in custody moved to strike from
the answer of the accused all allegations relating to the manner
and method of. obtaining his presence within the State. That
motion was sustained March 12, 1906, and the prisoner was
remanded to await his trial under the above indictment.
The Supreme Court of Idaho held the action of the Governor
of Colorado to be at least quasi judicial and, in effect, a determination that Pettibone was charged with the commission of
a crime in the latter State and was a fugitive frbm its justice;
that after the prisoner came within the jurisdiction of the demanding State he could not raise in its courts the question
whether he was or had been as a matter of fact a fugitive from

PETTIBONE v. NICHOLS.
203 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the justice of that State; that the courts of Id-aho had no
jurisdiction to inquire into the acts or motives of the executive
of the State delivering the prisoner; that "one who commits
a crime against -the 'laws of a State, whether coufmitted by
him while in person on its soil or absent in a foreign jurisdiction
and acting through some other agency or medium, has no vested
right of asylum in a sister State," and the fact "that a wrong
is committed against him in the manner or method pursued in
subjecting his person to the jurisdiction of the complaining
State, and that such wrong is redressible either in the civil or
criminal courts, can constitute no legal- or just reason why he
himself should not answer the charge against him when brought
before the proper tribunal." Ex parte Pettibone, 85 Pac. Rep.
002; Ex parte Moyer, 85 Pac. Rep. 897.
. From the judgment of the Supreme Court of Idaho a writ of
error was prosecuted to this court. That case is No. 265 on
the docket of the present term, but the record has not been
printed. But the parties agree that the same questions are
presented on this appeal as arise in that case, and as this case
is one of urgency in tl e affairs of a State, we have acceded to
the request that they may be argued and determined on this
appeal.
On the fifteenth of March, 1906, after the final judgment in
the Supreme Court of Idaho, Pettibone made application to
the Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in Idaho, for a
writ of habeas corpus, alleging that he was restrained of his
liberty by the Sheriff of Canyon County in violation of the
Constitution and laws of the United States. As was done in
the Supreme Court of Idaho, the accused set out numerous
facts and circumstances which, he contended, showed that his
personal presence in Idaho was secured by fraud and connivance on the part of the executive officers and agents of both
Idaho and Colorado, in violation of the constitutional and
statutory provisions relating to fugitives from justice. Consequently, it was argued, the court in Idaho did not acquire
jurisdiction over his person. The officer having Pettibone in

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

203 U. S.

custody made return to the writ that he then held the accused
under the bench warrant issued against' him. It was stipulated that the application for the writ of habeas corpus might
L;e taken as his answer to the return. Subsequently, on motion, that answer was stricken out by the Circuit Court as immaterial, the writ of habeas corpus was quashed, and Pettibone
was remanded to the custody of the State.
Mr. Edmund F. Richardsonand Mr. Clarence S. Darrow,With
whom Mr. John H. -Murphy was on- the brief for appellant:
These cases are. sui generis. The facts show that the Governor of the State, upon whom the demand was made, had full
knowledge of the falsity of the proceedings, and with such
knowledge of that falsity, actually engaged in a conspiracy to
remove citizens of his own State to another State, and actually
furnished the military forces of his State to aid in the accomplishment of that purpose. This is not a case of actual fugitives
from justice. If one has committed a crime within a State,
and has fled therefrom, the law is not particular as to the
means or the method by which his return to that State is insured. The law, however, will never wink at a fraud foisted
upon itself, and especially is that true where that fraud is
practiced by a sworn prosecuting officer and the chief executive of a State. No man in this country is so high that he is
above the law. No officer of the law may set that law at defiance with impunity., United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196,
220;. Burton v. United States, 202 U, S. 344.
Jurisdiction of the subject matter in a court is one thing;
jurisdiction of'a person in any wise related to that subject
matter is quite another. Pennoyer,v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 724.
The jurisdiction of the persons of the defendants was acquired
by the District Court of Canyon County, through the wrongs
and the frauds of the prosecuting officer of that county, aided
and abetted by the Governors of the States of Idaho and Colorado, through a conspiracy formed for that purpose. 2 Bishop
on Crim. Law, i71.

PETTIBONE v. NICHOLS.
203 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Constitutional guaranties have been violated by the arrest
of appellants. The Fourth Amendment provides that th',
right of the people to be secure in their persons against unreasonable seizures shall not be violated. Ex parte Sawyer,
124 U. S. 200.
No provision exists for extraditing one charged to have
constructively committed an offense in a State in which he
was not present. The Constitution and the law guards even
an offender in such a case as that against extradition. State
v. Hall, 115 N. C. 811.
It would be without due process of law. For definitions of
due process of law see 3 Words and Phrases, 2227; Davidson
v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 104; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v.
IIumes, 115 U. S. 512, 519; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366;
State v. Ashbrook, 154 Missouri, 375.
As protecting against arbitrary executive or judicial action
see People v. Adirondack Ry. Co., 160 N. Y. 225, 238; State
v. Hammer, 116 Iowa, 284, 288; Jenkins v. Ballantyne, 8 Utah,
245.
The arrest and detention of these prisoners is in direct violation of cl. 2, § 2, Art. 4, of, the Constitution, and § 5278,
Rev. Stats. They were not fugitives from justice, never having been in Idaho. Kentucky .v. Dennison, 24 How. 66, 110;
People v. Hyatt, 172 N. Y. 176, reversed in Hyatt v. Corkran,
188 U. S. 691, 713; Munsey v. Clough, 196U. S. 364; Tennessee
v. Jackson, 36 Fed. Rep. 258; Re Cook, 49 Fed. Rep. 833;
S. C., 146 U. S. 183; Ker v. Illinois, 119 U. S. 436; Mahon v.
Justice, 127 U. S. 700; Re Moore, 75 Fed. Rep. 821.
The foundation of jurisdiction of' the court of Idaho over
the persons of appellants is based upon a false affidavit by
the District Attorney of Canyon County, and no lawful thing,
founded upon a wrongful act, can be supported. Ilsley v.
Nichols, 12 Pick. (Mass.) 270; Luttin v. Benin, 11 Mod. 50;
Smith Y. Meyer, 1 T. & C. (N. Y.) 665; Re Largrave, 45 How.
Prac. 301; 2 Wharton, Conflict of Laws, § 849; Re Allen, 13
Blatchf. 271; Hooper v. Lane, 6 H. L. Cas. 443; Hill V. Good-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellant.

203 U. S.

rich, 32 Connecticut, 588; Re Robinson, 8 L. R. A. (Neb.)
398; Re Walker, 61 Nebraska, 803; Complon v. Wilder, 40
Ohio St. 130; Adriance v. Largrave, 59 N. Y. 110; Browning
v. Abrahams, 51 How. Prac. 173; Kendall v. Ailshire, 23 Nebraska, 707; Lascelles v. Georgia, 148 U. S. 537; Adams v.
People, 1 N. Y. 173; Ex pare Reggel, 114 U. S. 642.
The Fourteenth Amendment forbids any arbitrary deprivation of liberty. Re Converse, 137 U. S. 624; Hodgson v. Vermont, 168 U. S. 262. And it is the duty of the Federal court
to exercise its jurisdiction to protect appellant.
Federal 4courts have sometimes required the prisoner to
await the action of the state courts upon the theory that the
state courts were as likely to administer the law as were the
courts of the United States, and they have sometimes withheld relief on writs of habeas corpus, and required defendants,
who were convicted, to sue out writs of error, but they have
never denied the authority of the Federal courtsin the premises. Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 624; Roberts.v. Riley, 116
U. S. 80; Bruce v. Runyan, 124 Fed. Rep. 481; Ex prle Hart,
63 Fed. Rep. 249; Re Roberts, 24 Fed. Rep. 132k Ex parle
Brown, 28 Fed. Rep. 653; Ex pare Morgan, 20 Fed. Rep. 298;
Ex parte Robb, 19 Fed. Rep. 26; Re Doo Woon, 18" Fed. Rep.
898; Ex parte McKean, 16 Fed. Cas. No. 8848.
If this court will not _ct, appellant-is without.,relief, and
the circumstances warrant its intervention. Allen v. Georgia,
166 U. S. 138. Everything has been done before invofcing
the aid of this court which is required. Whitten v..Tomlinson,
160 U. S. 231.
While habeas corpus cannot usurp the functions of a writ of
error, it is preeminently the writ on which to test jurisdiction,
not error within jurisdiction. A fatal defect in jurisdiction
itself is the question presented by this record. Fells v. Murphy, 201 U. S. 223; Valentina v. Mercer, 201 U. S. 131; Whitney
v. Dick, 202 U.. S. 232; Wood v. Brush, 140 U. S. 278; but
Whatever the Usual rule may be, special circumstances authorize a departure from it. Re Lincoln, 202 U. S. 178.

PETTIBONE V. NICHOLS.
203 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Mr. James H. Hawley, with whom Mr. W. E. Borah -was on
the brief, for appellees:
There was no conspiracy and the proceedings were regular.
Appellants were accessories to the crime, and can be tried as
.such. Sec. 7697 et seq. Rev. Stat. Idaho; Territory v. Guthrie,
2 Idaho, 432.
Even if, as is denied, the procedure was unlawful there is
no right of asylum in a sister State by one who commits a
crime against the laws of a St.ate either while personally on
its soil or while in a foreign jurisdiction and acting through
some. other agency or medium. Mahon v. Justice, 127 U. S.
715; Lascelles v. Georgia, 148 U. S. 543; Ker v. Illinois, 119
U. S.436; Re Moore, 75 Fed. Rep. 824; Re Cook, 49 Fed. Rep.
833; Cook v. Hart, 146 U. S.183.
How the accused person has come within the State wherein
the crime was committed cannot be inquired into by the
courts of such State. It is not a cause of exemption from
prosecution for a crime that the accused was illegally arrested
or unlawfully brought within the jurisdiction. 13 Cyc. Law
& Pro. 99; 12 Ency. of Law, 607; Church on Hab. Cor, 461;
Ex parte Baker, 13 Am. St. Rep. 17; State v. Smith, 19 Am.
Dec. 679; SJtate v. Ross, 21 Iowa, 467; Dow's Case, 18 Pa. St. 37.
There is no limitation or restriction upon the crime for which
a man may be extradited in interstate *extradition; that duty
is equally imperative as to all crimes, and no right of return is
provided for or necessarily implied. 2 Moore, Extradition,
§ 643; Re Noyes, 17 Alb. L. J. 407; Ham v. State, 4 Texas
App. 645; Harland v. Washington, 3 Wash. Terr. 153; State
v. Stewart, 60 Wisconsin, 587; Ex parte Barker, 87 Alabama,
4; William v. Weber, 1 Colo. App. 191; State v. Brewster, 7
Vermont, 120; Adriance v. Lagrave, 59 N. Y. 110; United
States v. Caldwell, 8 Blatchf. 133; United States v. Lawrence,
13 Blatchf. 299, 307; People v. Rowe, 4 Park. Crim. Rep. 253;
Re Miles, 52 Vermont, 609; Mahoh v. Justice, 127 U. S.700.
The court will not inquire into the legality of arrest. That
the accused is in court is sufficient to require him to answer

OCTOBER TERM, -1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

the indictment against him. 12 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law,
598; Ex parte Scott, 9 B. & C. 446; State v. Kealy, 89 Iowa, 94;
State v. Patterson, 110 Missouri, 505; State v. Smith, 1 Bailey
L. (S. Car.) 283.
There is no difference between cases of kidnaping by unauthorized persons and cases wherein the extradition is conducted
under the forms of law but through mistake or intentionally
the Governor of either the demanding or surrendering State
has failed in his duty. The Governor upon whom the demand
is made must determine for himself, in the first instance,
whether the demanded person is a fugitive from justice. Ex
parte Reggel, 114 U. S. 642; Roberts v. Reilley, 116 U. S.80;
People v. Pratt, 78 California, 349; Hyatt v. Corkran, 188 U. S.
691, distinguished.
MR. JUSTICE 'HARLAN, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
As the application for the writ of habeas corpus was, by
stipulation of the parties taken as the answer of the accused
to the return of the officer holding him in custody, and as that
answer was stricken out by the court below as immaterial, we
must, on this appeal, regard as true all the facts sufficiently
alleged in the application which, in a legal sense, bear upon the
question whether the detention of the accused by. the state
authorities was in violation of the Constitution or laws of the
United States.
That application is too lengthy to be incorporated at large
in this opinion. It is sufficient to say that its allegations
present the case of a conspiracy between the Governors of Idaho
and Colorado, and the respective officers and agents of those
States, to have the accused taken from Colorado to Idaho
under such circumstances and in such way as would deprive
him, while in Colorado, of the privilege of invoking the jurisdiction of the courts there for his protection against wrongful
deportation from the State-it being alleged that the Governor

PETTIBONE v. NICHOLS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Idaho, the Prosecuting Attorney of Canyon County; and the
private counsel who advised them well knew all the time that
"he was not in the State of Idaho on the thirtieth day'of December, 1905, nor at any time near that date." The application
also alleged that the accused "is not and was not a fugitive
from justice; that he was not present in the State 6T Idaho
when the alleged crime was alleged to have been committed,
nor for months prior thereto, nor thereafter, until brought
into the State as aforesaid."
In the forefront of this case is the fact that the appellant is
held in actual custody for trial under an indictment in one of
the courts of Idaho for the crime .of murder charged to have
been committed in that State against its laws, and it is the
purpose of the State to try the question of his guilt or innocence
of that charge.
Undoubtedly, the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to discharge the appellant from the custody of the state authorities
if their exercise of jurisdiction over his person would be in
violation of any rights secured to him by the Constitution or
laws of the United States. But that court had a discretion as
to the time and mode in which, by the exercise of such power,
it would by its process obstruct or delay a criminal prosecution
in the state court. The duty of a Federal court to interfere,
on habeas corpus, for the protection of one alleged to be restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution or laws
of the United States, must often be controlled by the special
circumstances of the case, and unless in some emergency demanding prompt action the party held in custody by a State
and seeking to be enlarged will be left to stand his trial in the
state court, which, it will be assumed, will enforce-as it has
the power to do equally with a court of the United States;
Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 624, 637-any right secured by
the Supreme law of the land. "When the state court,' this
court has said, '.shall have finally acted upon the case, the
Circuit Court has still a discretion whether, under all the circumstances then existing, the accused, if convicted, shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.'

put to his writ of error from the highest court of the State,
or whether it will proceed, by writ of habeas corpus, summarily
to determine whether the petitioner is restrained of his liberty
in violation of the Constitution of the United States." Ex
parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241, 251, 253. To the same effect are
numerous cases in this court, among which may be named
Ex parte Fonda, 117 U. S. 516; New York v. Eno, 155 U. S.
89, 93; Cook v. Hart, 146 U. S. 183, 192; Minnesota v. Brundage,
180 U. S. 499, 501; Reid v. Jones, 187 U. S. 153; Riggins v.
United States, 199 U. S. 547, 549. This rule firmly established
for the guidance of the courts of the United States is applicable
here, although it appears that the Supreme Court of Idaho has
already decided some of the questions now raised. But the
question of Pettibone's guilt of the crime of having murdered
Steunenberg has not, however, been finally determined and
cannot be except by a trial under the laws and in the courts
of Idaho. If he should be acquitted by the jury, then no question will remain as to a violation of the Constitution and laws
of the United States by the methods adopted to secure his
personal presence within the State of Idaho.
The appellant, however, contends that the principle settled
in Ex parte Royall and other like cases can have application
only where the State has legally acquired jurisdiction over
the person of the accused, and cannot apply when, as is alleged
to be the case here, his presence in Idaho was obtained by
fraud and by a violation of rights guaranteed by the Constitution and laws of the United States. Under such circumstances,
it is contended, no jurisdiction could legally attach for the purpose of trying the accused under the indictment for murder.
In support of this view we have been referred to that clause
of the Constitution of the United States providing that if
"a person charged in any State with treason, felony, or other
crime, who shall flee from justice and be found in another
State, shall, on demand of the executive authority of the
State from which he fled, be delivered up to be removed
to the State having jurisdiction of the crime." Art. 4, §2;

PETTIBONE v. NICHOLS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the .Court.

also, to sec. 5278 of the Revised Statutes, in which it is
provided. that "whenever the executive authority of any
State or Territory demands any person as a fugitive from
justice, of the executive authority of any State or Territory
to which such person has fled, and produces a copy of. an indictment found or an affidavit made before a magistrate of
any State or Territory, charging. the person demanded with
having committed treason, felony, or other crime, certified as
authentic by the Governor or Chief Magistrate of the State
or Territory from whence the person so charged has fled, it
shall be the duty of the executive authority of the State or
Territory to which such person has fled to cause him to be
arrested and secured, and to cause notice of the arrest to be
given to the executive authority making such demand, or
to the agent of such authority appointed to receive the fugitive,
and to cause the fugitive to.be delivered to such agent when
he shall appear. If no such agent appears within six months
from the time of the arrest, the prisoner may be discharged.
All costs or expenses incurred in the apprehending, securing,
and transmitting such fugitive to the State or Territory making such demand shall be paid by such State or Territory."
Looking, first, at what was alleged to have occurred in the
State of Colorado touching the arrest of the petitioner and his
deportation from that State, we do not perceive that anything
done there, however hastily or inconsiderately done, can be
adjudged to be in violation of the Constitution Or laws of
the United States. We pass by, both as immaterial and
inappropriate, any consideration of the motives that induced
the action of the Governor of Colorado. This court will
not inquire as to the motives which guided the Chief Magis.trate of a State when executing the functions of his office.
Manifestly, whatever authority may have been conferred
upon the Governor of Colorado by the constitution or laws
of his State, he was not required, indeed, was not authorized
by the Constitution or laws of the United States to have the
petitioner arrested, unless within the meaning of such Consti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

tution and laws he was a fugitive from the justice of Idaho.
Therefore he would not have violated his duty if it had been
made a condition of surrendering the petitioner that evidence
be furnished that he was a fugitive from justice within the
meaning of the Constitution of the United States. Upon the
Governor of Colorado rested the responsibility of determining,
in some proper mode, what the fact was. But he was not
obliged to demand proof of such fact by evidence apart from
the requisition papers. As those papers showed that the accused was regularly charged by indictment with the crime of
murder committed in Idaho and was a fugitive from its justice,
the Governor of Colorado was entitled to accept such papers,
coming as they did from the Governor of another State, as
prima facie sufficient for a warrant of arrest. His failure to
require independent proof of the fact that petitioner was a
fugitive from justice cannot be regarded as an infringement
of any right of the petitioner under the Constitution or laws
of the United States. Ex parte Reggel, 114 U. S. 642, 652, 653.
In Munsey v. Clough, 196 U. S. 364, 372, this court said that
the issuing of a warrant of arrest by the Governor of the surrendering State, "with or without a recital therein that the
person demanded is a fugitive from justice, must be regarded
as sufficient to justify the removal, until the presumption in
favor of the legality and regularity of the warrant is overthrown by contrary proof in a legal proceeding to review the
action of the Governor. Roberts v. Reilly, .supra; Hyatt v.
Cockran, 188 U. S. 691." See also In re Keller, 28 Fed. Rep.
681, 686.
But the petitioner contends that. his arrest and deportation
from Colorado was, by fraud and connivance, so arranged and
carried out as to deprive him of an opportunity to prove,
before the Governor of that State, that he was not a fugitive
from justice, as well as opportunity to appeal to some court
in Colorado to prevent his illegal deportation from its territory.
If we should assume, upon the present record, that the facts
are as alleged, it is not perceived that they make a case of the

PETTIBONE v.. NICHOLS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

violation of the Constitution or laws of the United States.
It is true, as contended by the petitioner, that if he was not a
fugitive from justice, within the meaning of the Constitution,
no warrant for his arrest could have been properly or legally
issued by the Governor of Colorado. It is equally true that,
even after the issuing of such a warrant, before his deportation
from Colorado, it was competent for a court, Federal or state,
sitting in that State, to inquire whether he was, in fact, a
fugitive from justice, and if found not to be,to discharge him
from the custody of the Idaho agent and prevent his deportation from Colorado. Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 624, 639;
Ex parte Reggel, supra; Hyatt v. Corkran, 188 U. S. 691, 719;
Munsey v. Clough, 196 U. S. 364, 374. But it was not shown
by proof before the Governor of Colorado that the petitionef,
alleged in the requisition papers to be a fugitive from justice,
was not one, nor was the jurisdiction of any court sitting in
that State invoked to prevent his being taken out of the State
and carried to Idaho. That he had no reasonable opportunity
to present these facts before being taken from Colorado constitutes no legal reason why he should be discharged from the
custody of the Idaho authorities. No obligation was imposed
by the Constitution or laws of the United States upon the agent
of Idaho to so time the arrest of the petitioner and so conduct
his deportation from Colorado, as to afford him a convenient
opportunity, before some judicial tribunal sitting in Colorado,
to test the question whether he was a fugitive from justice and
as such liable, under the act of Congress, to be conveyed to
Idaho for trial there. In England, in the case of one arrested
for the purpose of deporting him to another country, it is
provided that there shall be no surrender of the accused to the
demanding country until after the expiration of a specified
time from the arrest, during which period the prisoner has an
op.)ortunity to institute habeas corpus proceedings. Extradi
tion Act of 1S70, 33 and 34 Vict. c. 52, § 11; 2 Butler on the
Treaty-Making Power, § 436; 1 Moore on Extradition, 741,
742. There is no similar act of Congress in respect of a person

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

arrested in one of the States of the Union as a fugitive from
the justice of another State. The speediness, therefore, with
which the Idaho agent removed the accused from Colorado
cannot be urged as a violation of a constitutional right and
constitutes no legal reason for discharging him from the custody
of the State of Idaho.
. We come now to inquire whether the petitioner was entitled
to his discharge upon making proof in the Circuit Court of
the United States, -sitting in Idaho, that he was brought into
that State as a fugitive from justice when he was not, in fact,
such a fugitive. Of course, it cannot be contended that the
Circuit Court, sitting in Idaho, could rightfully discharge the
petitioner upon proof simply that he did not commit the crime
of murder charged against him. His guilt or innocence of
that charge is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Idaho
state court. The constitutional and statutory provisions
referred to were based upon the theory that, as between the
States, the proper place for the inquiry into the question of
the guilt or innocence of an alleged fugitive from justice is in
the courts of the State where the offense is charged to have
been committed. The question, therefore, in the court below
was not whether the accused was guilty or innocent, but
whether the Idaho court could properly be prevented from
proceeding in the trial of that issue, upon proof being made
in the Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in that State,
that the petitioner was not a fugitive from justice and not liable,
invirtue of the Constitution and laws of the United States, to
arrest in Colorado under the warrant of its Governor and carried into Idaho. As the petitioner is within the jurisdiction
of Idaho, and is held by its authorities for trial, are the particular methods by which he was brought within her limits
at all material in the proceeding by habeas corpusP
It is contended by the State that this question was determined in its favor by the former decisions of this court. This is
controverted by the petitioner, and we must, therefore, and
particularly because of the unusual character of this case and

PETTIBONE v. NICHOLS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the importance of the questions involved, see what this court
has heretofore adjudged.,
In Ker v. Illinois, 119 U. S. 436, it appeared that at the trial
in an Illinois court of a person charged with having committed
a cririe against the laws of that State, the accused sought by
plea in abatement to defeat the jurisdiction of thc cmirt tipon
the ground that, in violation of law, he had keer,seied, in. Peru
and forcibly brought against his will into the United States
and delivered to the authorities of Illinois; all of which the
accused contended was in violation not only of due process of
law as guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, but- of
the treaty between the United States and Peru negotiated in
1870 and proclaimed in 1874. One of the articles of that
treaty bound the contracting countries, upon a requisition by
either country, to deliver up to justice persons who, being accused or convicted of certain named crimes committed within
the jurisdiction of the requiring party, should seek an asylum
or should be found within the territories of the other, the fact of
the commission being so established "as that the laws of the
country in which the fugitive or the person so accused shall
be found would justify his or her apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime had been there committed." 18
Stat. 719, 720. The plea stated, among other things, that the
defendant protested against his arrest and was refused opportunity, from the time of his being seized in Peru until he was
delivered to the authorities of Illinois, of pnimunicating with
any person or seeking any advice or assistance in regard to
procuring his release by legal process or otherwise.
The court overruled the plea of abatement, and the trial in
the state court proceeded, resulting in a verdict of guilty.
The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Illinois,
and this court affirmed, upon writ of error, the judgment of
the latter court. It was held by the unanimous judgment of
this court that, so far as any question of Federal right was
involved, no error was committed by the state court; and
that, notwithstanding the illegal methods pursued in bringing

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court..

203 U. S.

the accused within the jurisdiction of Illinois, his trial in the
state court did not involve a violation of the due process
cl'ause of the Constitution, nor any article in the treaty with
Peru, although the case was a clear one "of kidnapping within
the dominion of Peru, without any pretense of authority under
the treaty or from the Government of the United States."
The principle upon which the judgment rested was that, when
a criminal.is brought or is in fact within the jurisdiction and
custody of a State, charged with a crime against its laws, the
State may, so far as the Constitution and laws of the United
States are concerned, proceed against him for that crime, and
need not inquire as to the particular methods employed to
bring him into the State. "The case," the court said, "does
not stand, when the party is in court, and required to plead
to an indictment, as it would have stood upon a writ of habeas
corpus in California, or in any States through which he was
carried in the progress of the extradition, to test the authority
by which he was held." In meeting the contention that the
accused; Ker, by virtue of the treaty with Peru, acquired by
his residence a right of asylum, this court said: "There is no
language in this treaty, or in any other treaty made by this
country on the subject of extradition, of which we are aware,
which says in terms that a party fleeing from the United States
to escape punishment for crime becomes thereby entitled to an
asyium in the country to which he has fled; indeed, the absurdity of such a proposition would at once prevent the making
of a treaty of that kind. . . . It is idle, therefore, to claim
that, either by express terms or by implication, there is given
to a fugitive from justice in one of these countries any right
to remain and reside in the other; and if the right of asylum
means anything, it must mean this. The right of the government of Peru voluntarily to give a party in Ker's condition an
asylum in that country, is quite a different thing from the right
in him to demand and insist upon security in such an asylum.
The treaty, so far as it regulates -the right of asylum at all, is
intended to limit this right.in-the-case of one who is proved to

PETTIBONE v. NICHOLS.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

be a criminal fleeing from justice, so that, on proper demand
and proceedings had therein, the government of the country
of the asylum shall deliver him up to the country where the
crime was committed. And to this extent, and to this alone,
the treaty does regulate or impose a restriction upon the right
of the government of the country of the asylum to protect
the criminal from removal therefrom.

.

.

.

We .think

.it very clear, therefore, that, in invoking the jurisdiction of
this court upon the ground that the prisoner was denied a
right conferred upon him by a treaty of the United States, he
has failed to establish the existence of any such right."
If Ker, by virtue of the treaty with Peru, and because of his
forcible 'and illegal abduction from that country, did not acquire an exemption from the criminal process of the courts
of Illinois, whose laws he had violated, it is difficult to see how
Pettibone acquired, by virtue of the Constitution and laws
of the United States, an exemption from prosecution by the
State of Idaho, which has custody, of his person.
An instructive case on this subject is Mahon v. Justice, 127
U. S. 700. The Governor of Kentucky made a requisition
upon the Governor of West Virginia for' Mahon, who was
charged with the crime of murder in Kentucky, and was alleged
to have fled from its jurisdiction and taken refuge in West
Virginia. While the two Governors were in correspondence
on the subject a 'body of armed men, without warrant or other
legal process, arrested Mahon in West Virginia, and by force
and against his will conveyed him out of West Virginia, and
delivered him to the jailor of Pike County, Kentucky, in the
courts of which he stood indicted for murder. Thereupon the
Governor of West Virginia, on behalf of that State, applied to
the District Court of theUnited States for the Kentucky Di trict for a Writ of habeas corpus and his return to the jurisdiction of West Virginia. This court, after observing that the
States of the Union were riot absolutely sovereign and could
not declare war or authorize reprisals on other States, and that
their ability to prevent the forcible abduction of persons from
VOL. coIu-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

their territory consists solely in their power to punish all
violations of their criminal laws committed within it, whether.
by their own citizens or by citizens of other States, said: "If
such violators have escaped from the jurisdiction of the State
invaded, their surrender can be secured upon proper demand
on the executive of the State to which they have fled. The
surrender of the fugitives in such cases to the State whose
laws have been violated, is the only aid provided by the laws
of the United States for the punishment of depredations and
violence committed in one State by intruders and lawless
bands from another State. The offenses committed by such
parties are against the State; and the laws of the United States
merely provide the means by which their presence can be
secured in case they have fled from its justice. No mode is
provided by which a person unlawfully abducted from one
State to another can be restored to the State from which he
was taken, if held upon any process of law for offenses against
the State to which he has been carried. If not thus held he
can, like any other person wrongfully deprived of his liberty,
obtain his release on habeas corpus. Whether Congress might
not provide for the compulsory restoration to the State of
parties wrongfully abducted from its territory upon application of the parties, or of the State, and whether such provision
would not greatly tend to the public peace along the borders
of the several States, are not matters for present consideration.
It is sufficient now that no means for such redress through the
courts of the United States have as yet been provided. The
abduction of Mahon by Phillips and his aids was made, as
appears from the return of the respondent to the writ, and
from the findings of the court below, without any warrant or
authority from the Governor of West Virginia. It is true
that Phillips was appointed by the Governor of Kentucky as
agent of the State to receive Mahon upon his surrender on the
requisition; but no surrender having been made, the arrest of
Mahon and his abduction from the State were lawless and
indefensible acts, for which Phillips and his aids may be justly

PETTIBONE v. NICHOLS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

punished under the laws of West Virginia. The process emanating from the Governor of Kentucky furnished no ground
for charging any complicity on the part of that State in the
wrong done.to the State of West Virginia." Again: "It is
true, also, that the accused had the right while in West Virginia
of insisting that he should not be surrendered to the Governor
of Kentucky by the Governor of West Virginia, except in pursuance of the acts of Congress, and that he was entitled to
release from any arrest in that State not made in accordance
with them; but having subsequently been arrested in Kentucky
under the writs issued on the indictments against him, the
question is not as to the validity of the proceeding in West
Virginia, but as to the legality of his detention in Kentucky.
There is no comity between the States by which a person held
upon an indictment for a criminal offense in one State can be
turned over to the authorities of another, though abducted
from the latter. If there were any such comity, its enforcement would not be a matter within the jurisdiction of the courts
of the United States. By comity nothing more is meant than
that courtesy on the part of one State, by which within her
territory the laws of another State are recognized and enforced,
or another State is assisted in the execution of her laws. From
its nature the courts of the United States cannot compel its
exercise when it is refused; it is admissible only upon the
consent of the State, and when consistent with her own interests and policy. Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, 589;
Story's Conflict of Laws, § 30. The only question, therefore,
presented for our determination is whether a person indicted
for a felony in one State, forcibly abducted from another State
and brought to the State where he was indicted by parties
acting without warrant or authority of law, is entitled under
the Constitution or laws of the United States to release from
detention under the indictment by reason of such forcible
and unlawful abduction."
After a review of the authorities, including the case of Ker
v. Illinois, above cited, the court concluded: "So in this case,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

it is contended that, because under the Constitution and laws
of the United States a fugitive from justice from one State to
another can' be surrendered to the State where the crime was
coninitted, upon proper proceedings taken, he has the right
of asylum in the State to which he has fled, unless removed in
conformity with such proceedings, and that this right can be
enforced in the courts of the United States. But the plain
answer to this contention is, that the laws of the United States
do not recognize any such right of asylum, as is here claimed,
on the part of a fugitive from justice in any State to which he
has fled; nor have they, as already stated, made any provision
for the return of parties who, by violence and without lawful
authority, have been abducted from a State: There is, therefore, no authority in the courts of the United States to act upon
.any such alleged right. In Ker v. Illinois, the court said that
the question of how far the forcible seizure of the defendant
in another country, and his conveyance by violence, force, or
fraud to this country, could be made available to resist trial
in the state court for the offense charged upon him, was one
which it did not feel called upon to decide, for in that transaction it did not see that the Constitution, or laws, or treaties
of the United States guaranteed to him any protection. So
in this case we say that, whatever effect may be given by the
state court to the illegal mode in which the defendant was
brought from another State, no right, secured under the Constitution or laws of the United States, was violated by his

arrest in Kentucky, and imprisonment there, upon the indictments found against him for murder in that State."
These principles determine the present case and require an
affirmance of the judgment of the Circuit Court. It is true
the decision in the Jiahon case was by at divided, court, but its
authority is none the less controlling. The principle upon
which it rests has been several times recognized and reaffirmed
by this court, and is no longer to bequestioned. It was held
in Cook v. Hart, 146 U. S. 183, 192, that the cases of Ker v.
Illinois and Aalon v. Justice established these propositions:

PETTIBONE v. NICHOLS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"1. That this court will not interfere to relieve persons who
have been arrested and taken by violence from the territory
of one State to that of another, where they are held under
process legally issued from the courts of the latter State. 2.
That the question of the applicability of this doctrine to a
particular case is as much within the province of a state court,
as a question of common law or of the law of nations, as it is
of the courts of the United States;" in Lascelles v. Georgia,
148 U. S.537, 543, that it was settled in the Ker and Mahon
cases that, "except in the case of a fugitive surrendered by
a foreign government, there is nothing in the Constitution,
treaties, or laws of the United States which exempts an offender, brought before the courts of a State for an offense
against its laws, from trial and. punishment, even though
brought from another State by unlawful violence, or by abuse
of legal process;" and in Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585,
596 (the same cases being referred to), that "if a person is
brought within the jurisdiction of one State from another, or
from a foreign country, by the unlawful use of force, which
would render the officer liable to a civil action or in a criminal
proceeding because of the forcible abduction, such fact would
not prevent the trial of the person thus abducted in the State
wherein he had committed an offense." See, also, In re Johnson, 167 U. S., 120, 127, in which the court recognized the
principle that when a party in a civil suit has, by some trick
or device, been brought within the jurisdiction of a court, he
may have the process served upon him set aside, but that a
different rule prevails in criminal cases involving the public
interests.
To the above citations we may add In re Moore, 75 Fed.
Rep. 821, in which it appeared or was alleged that one accused
of crime against the laws of a State and in the custody of its
authorities for trial, was brought back from another State as a
fugitiye from justice by means of an extradition warrant
procured by false affidavits. In his application to the Circuit
Court of the United States for a writ of habeas corpus the peti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

tioner stated facts and circumstances tending to show that he
was not a fugitive from justice. The application was dismissed. After stating that the executive warrant issued by
the surrendering State had performed its office and that the
petitioner was not held in virtue of it, the court said: "His
imprisonment is Dot illegal unless his extradition makes it so,
and an illegal extradition is no greater violation of his rights of
person than his forcible abduction. If a forcible abduction
from another State and conveyance within the jurisdiction of
the court holding him, is no objection to his detention and trial
for the offense charged, as held in Mahon v. Justice, 127 U. S.
712, and in Ker v. Illinois, 119 U. S. 437, no more is the objection allowed if the abduction has been accomplishcd under the
forms of law. The conclusion is the same in each case. The
act complained of does not relate to the restraint from which
the petitioner seeks to be relieved,. but to the means by which
he was brought within the jurisdiction of the court under
'whose process he is held. It is settled that a party is not
excused from answering to the State whose laws he has violated because violence has been done him in bringing him within
the State. Moreover, -if any injury was done in this case in
issuing the requisition upon the State of Washington without
grounds therefor, the injury was not to the petitioner but to
that State whose jurisdiction was imposed upon by what was
done. The United States do not recognize any right of asylum
in the State where a party charged with a crime committed in
another State is found; nor have they made any provision for
the return of parties who, by' violence and without lawful
authority, have been abducted from a State; and, whatever
effect may be given by a state court to the illegal mode in which
a defendant is brought from another State no right secured
under the Constitution and laws of the United States is violated by his arrest and imprisonment for crimes committed in
the State into which he is brought. Mahon v. Justice, 127
U. S. 715."
The principle announced in the Mahon and other cases above

PETTIBONE v. NICHOLS.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cited was not a new one. It has been distinctly recognized
in the courts of England and in many States of the Union.
In Ex parte Scott, 9 B. & C. 446 (17 E. C. L. 204) (1823), one
accused of crime against the laws of England, and who was in
custody for trial, sought to be discharged upon habeas corpus
because she had been improperly apprehenoled in a foreign
country. Lord Tenterden, C. J., said: "The question, therefore, is this, whether if a person charged with a crime is found
in this country it is the duty of the court to take care that such
a party shall be amenable to justice or whether we are to consider the circumstances under which she was brought here.
I thought, and still continue to think, that we can not inquire
into them. If the act complained of were done against the
law of a foreign country, that country might have vindicated
its own law. If it gave her a right of action, she may sue upon
it." Some of the American cases, to the same general effect,
are cited in Mahon v. Justice, namely, State v. Smith, 1 Bailey
(S. C.), 283; State v. Brewster, 7 Vermont, 118; State v. Ross, 21
Iowa, 467. See also Dow's case, 18 Pa. St. 37; State v. Kealy,
89 Iowa, 94, 97; Ex parte Barker, 87 Alabama, 4, 8; People v.
Pratt, 78 California, 345, 349; Church on Habeas Corpus,
§ 483, and authorities cited in notes, and note to Fetter'scase,
57 Am. Dec. 389, 400.
It is said that the present case is distinguished from the
Mahon case in the fact that the illegal abduction complained
of in the latter was by persons who neither acted nor assumed
to act under the authority of the State into the custody of
whose authorities they delivered Mahon; whereas, in this case,
it is alleged that Idaho secured the presence of Pettibone
within its limits through a conspiracy on the part of its Governor and other officers. This difference in the cases is not, we
think, of any consequence as to the principle involved; for,
the question now is-and such was the fundamental question
in Mahon', case-whether a Circuit Court of the United States
when asked, upon habeas corpvs, to discharge a person held
in actual custody by a State for trial in one of its courts

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion, of the Court.

203 U. S.

under an indictment charging a crime against its laws, can
properly take into account the methods whereby the State
obtained such custody. That question was determined in the
negative in the Ker case and Mahon's case. It was there adjudged that in such a case neither the Constitution nor laws of
the United States entitled the person so held to be discharged
from custody and allowed to depart from the State. If, as
suggested, the application of these principles may be attended
by mischievous consequences, involving the personal safety
of individuals within the limits of the respective States, the
remedy is with the lawmaking department of the Government.
Congress has long been informed by judicial decisions as to
the state of the law upon this general subject.
In this connection it may be well to say that we have not
overlooked the allegation that the Governor and other officers
of Idaho well knew. at the time the requisition was made upon
the Governor of Colorado, that Pettibone was not in Idaho on
December 30, 1905, nor at any time near that date, and had
the purpose in all they did to evade the constitutional and
statutory provisions relating to fugitives from justice. To
say nothing of the impropriety of any such facts being made
the subject of judicial inquiry in a Federal court, the issue
thus attempted to be presented was wholly immaterial. Even
were it conceded, for the purp~oses of this case, that the Governor of Idaho wrongfully issued his requisition, and that the
Governor of Colorado erred in honoring it and in issuing his
warrant of arrest, the vital fact remains that Pettibone is
held by Idaho in actual custody for trial under an indictment
charging him with crime against its laws, and he seeks the
aid of the Circuit Court to relieve him from custody, so that
he may leave that State and thereby defeat the prosecution
against him without a trial. In the present case it is not necessary to go behind the indictment and inquire as to how it
happened that he canie within reach of the process of the Idaho
court in which the indictment is pending. And any investigation as to the motives which induced the action taken by

PETTIBONE v. NICHOLS.
20 U. S.

MCKZNNA, J., dissenting.

the Governors of Idaho and Colorado would, as already suggested, be improper as well as irrelevant to the real question
to be now determined. It must be conclusively presumed
that those officers proceeded throughout this affair with no
evil purpose and with no other motive than to enforce the law.
We perceive no error in the action of the Circuit Court and
its final order is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissenting.

I am constrained to dissent from the opinion and judgment
of the court. The principle announced, as I understand it,
is that "a-Circuit Court of the United States, when asked upon
habeas corpus to' discharge a person held in actual custody by
a State for trial in one of its courts under an indictment charging a crime against its laws, cannot properly take into account
the methods whereby the State obtained such custody." In
other words, and to illuminate the principle by the light of
the facts in this case (facts, I mean, as alleged, and which
we must assume to be true for the purpose of our discussion),
that the officers of one State may falsely represent that a person
was personally present in the State and committed a crime
there, and had fled from its justice, may arrest such person and
take him from another State, the officers of the latter knowing
of -the false accusation and conniving in and aiding its purpose,
thereby depriving him of an opportunity to appeal to the
courts, and that such person cannot invoke the rights guaranteed to him by the. Constitution and statutes of the United
States in the State to which he is taken. And this, it is said,
is supported by the cases of Ker v. Illinois, 119 U. S. 436, and
Mahon v. Justice, 127 U. S. 700. These cases, extreme as they
are, do not justify, in my judgment, the conclusion deduced
from them. In neither case was the State the actor in the
wrongs that brought within its confines the accused person.
In the case at bar, the States, through their officers, are the

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

203 U. S.

offenders. They, by an illegal exertion of power, deprived
the accused of a constitutional right. The distinction is
important to be observed. It finds expression in Mahon v.
Justice. But it does not need emphasizing. Kidnapping is
a crime, pure and simple. It is difficult to accomplish; hazardous at every step. All of the officers of the law are supposed
to be on guard against it. All of the officers of the law may
be invoked against it. But how is it when the law becomes
the kidnapper, when the officers of the law, using its forms
and exerting its power, become abductors? This is not a
distinction without a difference-another form of the crime of
kidnapping, distinguished only from that committed by an
individual by circumstances. If a State may say to one within
her borders and upon whom her process is served, I will not
inquire how you came here; I must execute my laws and remit
you to proceedings against those .who have wronged you,
may she so plead against her own offenses? May she claim
that by mere physical presence within her borders, an accused
person is within her jurisdiction denuded of his constitutional
rights, though he has been brought there by her violence?
And constitutional rights the accused in- this case certainly
did have, and valuable ones. The foundation of extradition
between the States is that the accused should be a fugitive
from justice from the demanding State, and he may challenge
the fact by liabeas corpus immediately upon his arrest. If he
refute the fact he cannot be removed. Hyatt v. Ccrkran, 188
U. S. 691. And the right to resist removal is not a right of
asylum. To call it so in the State where the accused is is
misleading. It is the right to be free from molestation. It
is the right of personal liberty in its most complete sense.
And this right was vindicated-in Hyatt v. Coricran, and the
fiction of a constructive presence in a State and a constructive
flight from a constructive presence rejected. This decision
illustrates at once the.value of the right and the value of the
means to enforce the right. It is to be hoped that our criminal
jurisprudence will not need for its efficient administration the

PETTIBONE v. NICHOLS.
203 U. S.

MCKENNA, J.,

dissenting.

destruction of either the right or the means to enforce it.
The decision in the case at bar, as I view it, brings us perilously
near both results. Is this exaggeration? What are the
facts in the case at bar as alleged in the petition, and which
it is conceded must be assumed to be true? The complaint,
which was the foundation of the extradition proceedings,
charged against the accused the crime of murder on the thirtieth
of December, 1905, at Caldwell, in the county of Canyon,
.State of Idaho, by killing one Frank Steunenberg, by throwing
an explosive bomb at and against his person. The accused
avers in his petition that he had not been "in the State of
Idaho, in any way, shape or form, for a period of more than
ten years" prior to the acts of which he complained, and that
the Governor of Idaho knew accused had not been in the
State the day the murder was committed, "nor at any time
near that day." A conspiracy is alleged between the Governor
of the State of Idaho and his advisers, and that the Governor
of the State of Colorado took part in the conspiracy, the purpose of which was "to avoid the Constitution of the United
States and the act of Congress made in pursuance thereof,
and to prevent the accused from asserting his constitutional
right under cl., 2, sec. 2, of art. IV, of the Constitution of the
United States and the act'made pursuant thereof."
The
manner in which the alleged conspiracy had been executed
was 'set out in detail. It was in effect that the agent of the
State of Idaho arrived in Denver, Thursday, February 15,
1906, but it was agreed between him and the officers of Colorado that the arrest of the accused should not be made until
some time in the night of Saturday, after business hoursafter the courts had closed and judges and lawyers had departed
to their homes; that the arrest should be kept a secret and the
body of the accused should be clandestinely hiurried out of the
State of Colorado with all possible speed, without the knowledge
of his friends or his counsel; that he was at the usual place of
business during Tiursday, Friday, and Saturday, but no attempt
was made to arrest him until 11:30 o'clock P. M. Saturday,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
MCKENNA, J., dissenting.

203 U. S.

when his house was surrounded and he arrested. Moyer was
arrested under the same circumstances at 8:45, and he and
accused "thrown into the county jail of the city and county
of Denver." It is further alleged that, in pursuance of the
conspiracy between the hours of five and six o'clock on Sunday
morning, February 18, the officers of the State and "certain
armed guards, being a part of the forces of the militia of the
State of Colorado," provided a special train for the purpose of
forcibly removing him from the State of Colorado, and between
said hours he was forcibly placed on said train and removed
with all possible speed to the State of Idaho; that prior to his
removal and at all times after his incarceration in the jail
at Denver he requested to be allowed to communicate with
his friends and his counsel and his family, and the privilege
was absolutely denied him. The train, it is alleged, made
no stop at any considerable station, but proceeded at great
and unusual speed; and that he was accompanied by and
surrounded with armed guards, members of the state militia
of Colorado, under the orders and directions of the adjutant
general of the State.
I submit that the facts in this case are different in kind and
transcend in consequences those in the cases of Ker v. ILinois
and Mahon v. Justice, and differ from and transcend them
as the power of a State transcends the power of an individual.
No individual or individuals could have accomplished What
the power of the two States accomplished; no individual or individuals could have commanded the means and success;
could have made two arrests of prominent citizens by invading
their homes; could have commanded the resources of jails,
armed guards and special trains; could have successfully timed
all acts to prevent inquiry and judicial interference.
The accused, ds soon as he could have done so, submitted
his rights to the consideration of the courts. He could not
have done so in Colorado, he could not have done so on the
way from Colorado. At the first instant that the State of
Idaho relaxed its restraining power he invoked the aid of

MOYER v. NICHOLS.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

habeas corpus successively of the Supreme Court of the State
and of the Circuit Court of the United States. He should not
have been dismissed from court, and the action of the Circuit
Court in so doing should be reversed.
I also dissent in Nos. 250, 251, 265, 266 and 267. (See p.
222, post.)

MOYER v. NICHOLS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE
No. 250.

DISTRICT

OF

IDAHO.

Argued October 10, 11, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

Pettibone v. Nichols, ante p. 192 followed; 85 Pac. Rep. 897, 902, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edmund F. Richardson and Mr. Clarence S. Darrow,
with whom Mr. John H. Murphy was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. James H. Hawley, with whom Mr. W. E. Borah was on
the brief, -for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE

HARLAN-delivered the opinion of the court.

This case does not differ, in principle or in its facts, from
Pettibone v. Nichols, just decided. Moyer was also charged
with the murder of Steunenberg, and was arrested in Colorado,
upon the warrant of the Governor of that State, and taken
to Idaho, and delivered to its authorities. He was embraced
in the same indictment with Pettibone, and was held in custody
for trial under that indictment. He sued out a writ of habeas
'corpus from the Supreme Court of Idaho, but the writ was

