OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Syllabus.

203 U. S.

their race, of the" right to earn a living in a lawful: way, infringes no right secured to them by the Federal Constitution.
. As the Nation has destroyed both slavery and involuntary
servitude everywhere within the jurisdiction of the United
States and invested Congress with-power, by appropriate legislation, to protect the freedom thus established against all
the badges and incidents of slavery as it once existed; as the
disability to make valid contracts for one's services was, as
this court has said, an inseparable incident of the institution
of slavery which the Thirteenth Amendment destroyed; and
as a combination or conspiracy to prevent citizens of African
descent, solely because of their race, from making and performing such contracts, is thus in hostility to the rights and
privileges that inhere in the freedom established by that
Amendment, I am of olinion that the case is within section
5508, and that the judgment should be affirmed.
For these reasons, I dissent from the opinion and judgment
of the court.

NEW MEXICO ex rel. E. J. McLEAN & COMPANY v.
. DENVER & RIO GRANDE RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM. THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITDRY OF
NEW MEXICO.
No. 18.

Argued March 14, 15, 1906.-Decided October 15, 1906.

The right to legislate in the Territories being conferred under constitutional
authority, by Congress, the passage of a territorial law is the exertion

of an authority exercised under the United States, and the validity of
such authority is involved where the right of the legislature to pass an
act is challenged; and, in such a case, if any sum or value is in dispute,
an appeal lies to this court from the Supreme Court of a Territory under
* 2 of the act of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 443, even though the sum or
'value be less than $5,000.

McLEAN v; DENVER & RIO GRANDE R. R. CO.
203 U. S.

39

Argument for Appellants.

The right of a shipper to have his goods transported by a common carrier
is a valuable right measurable in money, and an appeal involving such
a right of whiqh this court otherwise has jurisdiction -under § 2 of the'
act of March 3, 1885, will not be dismissed because no sum or value is
involved.
The provision in section 10, Article I, of the Constitution of'the United
States, that States shall not lay imposts and duties on import4 and exports is not contravened by a state inspection law applicable only. to
goods shipped to other States, and not to goods directly shipped to
foreign countries.
A State or Territory has the right to legislate for the safety and welfare
of its people, which is not taken from it because of the exclusive right
of Congress to regulate interstate commerce; and an inspection law.
-affecting interstate commerce is not for that reason invalid unless it
is in conflict with an act of Congress or an attempt to regulate interstate commerce. Patapsco.Guano Co. v. North Carolina Board of -Agriculture,.171.U. S. 345, followed.
The law of March 19, 1901, of the Territory of New Mexico, making it
an offense for any railroad company to receive,, for' shipment beyond.
the limits of the Territory hides, which had not been inspected as required by the law, is not unconstitutional 'asan unwarranted regulation
:"
of, or burden on, interstate commerce.
This court will take judicial notice ofthe fact that cattle.run at large in
the great stretches of country in the West, identified only as to' ownership by brands, and of the necessity for, and use of,. branding of such
cattle, and will not strike down state or territorial legislation, essential,
for prevention of crime, requiring the inspection of hides to be shipped
without the State, although the act does not require such inspection of
hides not to be so shipped.
The exercise of .the police power may and should have reference to the
* peculiar situation and needs~of the community, and is not necessarily
.iuvalid because it may have the effect of levying a tax upon the property 'affected if its main purpose is to protect the people against fraud
and wrong.
The law being otherwise valid, the amount of. the inspection fee is not
a judicial question;. it rests with the legislature to fix the amount, and
gill only present a valid objection if so unreasonable and disproportionate to the services rendered as to attack the good faith of the law.78 Pac. Rep. 74, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr.'W. B. Childers, with whom Mr. T. B. Catron was on the
brief, for'appellants:
Appellants agree with the Supreme Court of New Mexico

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for AppeUanta.

203 13. S.

that all legislation upon the subject of hide inspection in New
Mexico, and the organization and existence of the Cattle Sanitary Board, shotld be looked into and construed together
with this enactment, so far as the same may appear to be in
par materia.
The statutes touching hide inspection directly or indirectly,
are: Act of 1889, Comp. Laws, New Mexico, 1897, §§ 181206, creating Cattle Sanitary Board, and see preamble creating it "for sanitary purposes only"; act of 1891,_Comp.oJStat.,
§§ 207-219, giving the board additional powers; act of 1893,
Comp. Laws, §§ 220-225, concerning raising funds for the
board, and providing in § 221, that it might fix a fee for in-.
spection of hides under provisiQns of act:, acts of 1899, Session Laws, ch. 44, p. 99, and ch. 5, p. 106, fixing fee of three
cents; act of 1901, requiring inspection of hides to be exported r..d the tagging thereof, -and fixing fee of ten cents;
§§84, ,85, Comp. Laws of 1897, requiring butchers to give
bonds and keep records.
These laws prescribe no inspection except for slaughterhouse hides and for a distinct purpose of detecting violations
of § 84, of the Compiled Laws, which requires keeping hides
-for thirty days.
This is the construction of the New Mexico Supreme Court
upon the laws in question; and it is conclusively fixed that
hides, out of a slaughtIr-house or in a slaughter-house 'after
thirty days' age, were un'der no disability as articles' of. commerce, except for the period of thirty days after' the killing.
Expressio unius est exclusio allerius; and the requirement to
withhold hides from trafficking for thirty days, qualifies them
for commerce and traffic after that time Ilides, therefore,
are after thirty days' age free articles of commerce in New
Mexico, with all power to inspect the same or to charge a fee
thereon or to withhold the same from commerce, absolutely
.determined. While being" free in every sense, the law of
1901, attacked herein, was passed, taxing their exportation.
The law of 1901, is not an inspection law within the mean-

McLEAN v. DENVER & RIO GRANDE R. R. CO.
203 U. S.

41

Argument for Appellants.

ing of the exception found in Art. I, § 10, par. 2, of the Constitution of the United States, prohibiting States, without the
consent of Congress, from laying any imposts or duties on
imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary
for executing their inspection laws.
As to what is an inspection law, see Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1; Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Leisy v. Harden, 135 UJ. $. 112; Bowman v. Chicago Ry.. Co., 125 U. S.
465.
The law of 1901, cannot be construed as an inspection law
because the inspection might lead to prevention and detection of crime. That is not the legitimate purpose of an inspection law. People v. Compagnie Generale Transatlantique,
107 U. S. 61.
For other definitions of inspection see Burrill's and Bouvier's Law Dictionaries; Christmanv. Northrup, 8 Cow. (N. Y.)
45; 16 Am. and Eng. Ency. of Law, 808; Mugler v. Kansas, 124
U. S. 623.
Does any general danger, any popular apprehension of
danger, from the stealing of hides, appear in New Mexico?
Clearly not, for there is no vigilant inspection law, for the
tracing of hides intended for local commerce, local tanneries,
or local manufacture. The exercise of police power, for the
detection of crime, is only thought necessary when exportation, or commerce between the States is set in motion. A
hide thirty days ol is exempt from inspection, vhen sold in.
the Territory; but, even though already inspected, it has to
undergo another inspection when offered for export.
Exports cannot )e taxed as such. See Coe v. Errol, 116
U. S. 525; Turpin v. Burgess, 117 U. S. 506; Cornell v. Coyne,
192 U. S. 426.
It is apparent that this ten cent tax is an unusual tax not
levied upon all property in the same class, but levied only
on that portion of the hides of New Mexico 'Which are offered
for exportation by a common' carrier; and although the law
does not say, on its face, that it is taxing these hides simply

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellants.

203 U. 8.

because of their exportation, still it is apparent that that is
the only purpose or reson for the taxation. It cannot be said
that the object is to detect crime, when the legislature discriminates in favor of local commerce and shows no disposition to
detect crime at the expense of local industry. Turner v.
Maryland, 107 U. S. 36, is inapplicable, as in: that case there
was a benefit to the property on which the fee was charged.
As the law imposes a discriminating and special tax on
the property of one class of citizens, as upon butchers, or
hide dealers, 'or upon one kihd of property, as upon hides, to
protect the property of another class of citizens, as cattleraisers, or another kirxd of property, as cattle, it is in violation
of fundamental ,principles of government and natural right.
It takes private property for private use without compensation.. It deprives the despoiled citizen of the equal protection
of the laws. 1 Tucker on Const., 77; Loan Association v.
Topeka, 20 Wall. 665.
The statute is not a reasonable law, properly devised for
preventing the evil at which it may be aimed, if it is aimed
at any evil; and not so devised as to no more than, effectuate
that purpose. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U.. S. 623; Lawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 137, and cases cited; Lake Shore R. 1. Co. v.
Ohio, 173U. S. 300.
Even if the law is valid on its face, if the tax is enforcible
in an unusual way on an honest and legitimate article of
interstate commerce, it may be invalid, and under the allegations of the petition, admitted by the demurrer, the law is
improperly enforced.
A statute may be void by reason of its operation, although
valid on its face. Virginia Coupon Cases, 114 U. S. 295..
And as to reasonableness of such laws, both in language and
operation, see Brimnfer v. Rebman, 138 " . S. 78; In re Rebman, 41 Fed. Rep. 867; Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446.
The law in charging a fee of ten cents per hide, for an inspection made As at the port of shipment, where hides must
be assumed to be in existence in shipping quantities, or car-

McLEAN• v. DENVER & RIO GRANDE R. R. CO. 43
203 U. S.

Argument for Appellee..

load lots, imposes a charge which is apparently largely in
excess of the cost of such inspection. Am. Fertilizer Co. v.
Board of Agriculture, 43 Fed. Rep. 609; Patapsco Guano Co. v.
North Carolina, 171 U. S. 345; Neilson v. Garza, 2 Woods,
287, distinguished.
The statute imposes the burden of inspection, and the payment of ten cents per hide; only upon hides offered to a common carrier for shipment to a market without the Territory,
and is void therefore as a clear discrimination between hides
to be retained and used in the Territory and hides to be
shipped out. Hides may also be shipped out of the Territory
by any other means of transportation than-a common carrier.
As to effect of such discrimination see McCullough v. Maryland, -4Wheat. 316; Voight v. Wright, 141 U. S. 65.
This court has jurisdiction of the appeal without regard to
the value in dispute, as an authoity exercised under the
United States is involved. Sec. 2, act of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat.
443; Clayton v. Utah, 132 U. S. 632; Clough v. Curtis, 134
U. S.361; United States v. Lynch, 137 U. S.286; RailroadCo. v.
Arizona, 156 U. S. 350; Linford v. Ellison, 155 U. S. 503,
distinguished.
Mr. Charles A. Spiess and Mr. A. C. Campbell, with whom
Mr. D. J. Leahey was on the brief, for appellee:
This court has not jurisdiction of the appeal. The matter
in dispute is less than $5,000, and an authority exercised
under the United States is not involved. The statute, the
validity whereof is-attacked, is of New Mexico and not of the
United States. Snow v. United States, 118 U. S. 346; Balt. &
Pot. R. R. Co. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210; Lynch v. United
States, 137 U. S. 280; Cameron v. United States, 146 U. S. 533;
Seymour v. South Carolina, 152 U. S. 353; Linford v. Ellison,
155 U. S. 503.
In order to sustain appellate jurisdiction of this court under
either section of the act of Congress of March 3, 1885, the
matter in -dispute must have been money or something, the

OCTOBER• TERM, 1906.
Argument for Appellee.

203 U. S;

value of which can be estimated in money. Per'rine v. Slack,
164 U. S. 452;-Durham v. Seymiour, 161 U.-S. 235; Kurtz'v.
Moffitt, 115 U. S. 487, 495; Caffrey 4. Oklahoma, 177 U. S.
346; De Kraft v. Barney, 2 Black, 704; In re Chapman, 156
U. S. 211; Cross v. Burke, 146 U. S. 82;'In re Heath, 144 U. S.
92, Farnsworth v. Montana, 129 U. S. 104;, Sinclair v. District of Columbia, 192 U. S. 16; Elgin v. Marshall, 106 U. S.
578; Bruce v. Railroad Co., .117 U. S.514,
The matter in,dispute in this case was not money, and the
remaining inquiry is -whether it is. a right the value of .whieh
can be ascertained in money.
The collateral effect of the judgment cannot be inquired
into in. this inquiry for the purpose of determining whether
this court. has jurisdiction. The judgment its4f must carry
with it the elements, which confer jurisdiction. Re, Belt, 159
7U. S. 95, 100; Railroad Co. v. District of Columbia, 146 U. S.
227, 231; Chapman v. United States, 164 U. S.436; Farnsworth
v. Montana, 129 U. S. 10.4; Cross v. Burke, 146 U. S&82.
This court in .letermining the validity of legislation is limited to question of. power, and cannot pass on expediency.
Congress gave the legislature of New Mexico power to pass
this legislation asfully as a State would have it. Sec. 1851, Rev.
Stat.; Walker v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 165 U. S.593.
The act was a valid inspection law, and that notwithstanding it operated on articles of interstate commerce. Patapsco
Guano Co. v. North Carolina, 171 U. S.345.
The law waspassed to-meet the peculiar conditions in New
Mexico in regard to the vast herds of grazing cattle, which
can only be identified and property rights therein protected
by the system of branding in force in the Territory. The
law falls under the class sustained in Turner v. Maryland, 107
U. S.38. The law is an inspection law, and it operates on the
hides before they begin to move in interstate commerce, and
therefore is not an export tax. Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.517;
Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonagon, 188 U. S.82; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S.1; and see also United States v. Boyer, 85 Fed.

McLEAN v. DENVER & RIO GRANDE R. R. CO. 45
203 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

Rep. 425; United:States v. E. C. -Knight Co., 156 U. S. 13;
Cornell y. Cbyne, 192 U. S. 418; In re Greene, 52 Fed. Rep,
113; see People v. Bishop, 94 N. Y. Supp. 74, sustaining New
York veal law providing for tagging calves killed, with age
and name of raiser and shipper.
The act is a legitimate exercise of the police power and is
not dependent in any'manner upon the exception contained
in the article of the Constitution which provides that States
may levy imposts for the execution of their inspection laws.
The inspection fee is not levied upon interstate commerce.
Even if the hides in question should be considered interstate commerce at the time the law acts upon them, still the
act is not in collision with the commerce clause of the Constitution and is valid, being a.legitimate inspection law. See
case below, 78 Pac. Rep. 75, and concurring separate opinion
of Justice Pope, 79 Pac. Rep. 295; City of New York v. Miln,
11 Pet. 102; Pabst Brewing Co. v. Cren.shaw, 198 U. 8. 17.
The act answers all essential requirements of 4 valid inspection law, in that necessity existed for its enactment;
it provides a reasonable fee; it intended and is.well calculated
to eradicate or at least lessen the evil of cattle stealing; it
does no violence to the rights secured to the citizens of any
other State or Territory; it operates. upon property and not
upon persons; it can be executed without taking testimony or
evidence.
The legislature- and courts of New Mexico must be pre-sumed to be perfectly familiar with conditions there existing,
and to understand the necessities in regard to legislation for
protecting the property of its, citizens. Whether such a law
as the one now in question is .necessary should be referred to
the legislative department of the Territory. And the legislature having'enacted it, this court will hesitate to deny its
validity. Clark v. Nash, 19S U. S. 361.
The scope of inspection laws can no more be defined or
limited than can -the scope of police power of which it is a
branch. Barton v. Railroad Co., 32 Fed. Rep. 722; Voight v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S

Wright, 141 U. S. 62; Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36,62..
As to whether inspection laws can be resorted to for detection
of, crime see Railroad Co. v. Ifusen, 95 U. S. 465, 471.
The constitutional prohibition as to exports refers to foreign
commerce and not to interstate commerce. Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, and the Sates may make inspection laws
operating on interstate commerce. Patapsco Guano Co. v.
North Carolina, 171 U. S. 345; Neilson v. Garza, 2 Woods,
287.
The fees charged in this case are reasonable, but that is a
matter for. the legislature to determine. Cases cited, supra.
Chester v. Telegraph Co.; 154 Pa. St. 464; West. Un. Tel. Co. v.
New Hope, 187 U. S. 425. See Pha'nix Meat Co. v. Moss, 64
Pac. Rep. 442, .as to, Arizona hide inspection law.
The law does not discriminate between different classes of
citizens. It acts upon hides, not persons, and upon hides
whosesoever they may be. Whenever a law operates alike
upon all persons and property similarly situated, equal pro,tection is not denied. All that is required is that all persons
subject to a law shall'be treated alike. MQ. Pac. R. R. y.
Mackey; 127 U. S. 205; Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 377;
Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657.
In Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Brimmer v. Rebman,
138 U. S. 78; Voight v. Wright, 141 U. S. 62, state laws were
under consideration which discriminated against products of
other States, and were for that reason condemned. In this
case there is no such discrimination.
MR.

JUSTICWE

DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the judgment of the Supreme Court
of New Mexico, affirming the judgment of the District Court
of Santa F6 County, sustaining a motion to quash an alternative writ of mandamus issued on the relation of E. J. McLean & Company against the Denver and Rio Grande Railroad Company.

McLEAN v. DENVER &'RIO GRANDE R. R. CO. 47
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

From the allegations of the writ it appears that the relators, the appellants here, had delivered to the railroad company at Santa F6, New Mexico, a bale of hides consigned to
Denver, Colorado, a point on the line of the defendant's railroad. The railroad company refused to receive and ship the
hides for the reason that they did not bear the evidence of
inspection required by the act of the legislature of New Mexico, apptoved March 19, 1901, which act, to be more fully
noticed hereafter, made it an offense for any railroad company to receive hides for shipment beyond the limits of the
Territory which had not been inspected within the requirements of the law.
. An objection is made to the jurisdiction of this court upon
the ground that the case is not appealable under the act of
Congress of March 3,. 1885. 23 Stat. 443.
Section 1 of the act provides, in substance, that no appeal
or writ of error shall be allowed from any judgment or decree
of the Supreme Court of a Territory unless the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum of $5,000. Section,
2 of the act makes exception to the -application of section 1
as to the sum in dispute, in cases wherein is involved the
validity of a treaty or statute of, or authority exercised under,
the United States, and in all such cases an appeal or writ of
error will lie without regard to the sum or value in dispute.
Confessedly, $5,000 is not involved; and in order to be
appealable to this court the case must involve the validity of
an authority exercised under the United States, and also be
a controversy in which some sum or value is involved. This
court, in the case of Lynch v. United States, 137 U. S. 280,
285, laid down the test of the right to appeal under the statute
in the following terms:
"The validity of a statute or the validity of an authority is
drawn in question when the existence, or constitutionality,
or legality of such statute or authority is denied, and the
deniaf forms the subject of direct inquiry."
The right to legislate in the Territories is conferred, under

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Ofinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

constitutional authority, by the Congress of the United States
and the passage of a territorial law is the exertion of an authority exercised under the United States. While this act
was passed in pursuance of the authority given by the United
States to the territorial legislature, it is contended by the
relators below, appellants here, that it violates the Constitution of the United States, and is therefore invalid, although
it is an attempted exercise of power conferred by Congress
upon the Territory. The objection of the relator to the law
raises a controversy as to the right of the legislature to pass
it under the broad power of legislation conferred by Congress
upon the Territory. In other words, the validity of an authority exercised under the United States in the passage
and enforcement of this law is directly challenged, and the
case does involve the validity of an authority exercised under
the power derived from the United States. It is not a case
merely involving the construction of a legislative act of the
Territory, as was the fact in Snow v. United States, 118 U. S.
346. The power to pass the act at all, in view of the requirements of the Constitution of the United States, is the subjectmatter in controversy, and brings the case in this aspect within
the second section of the act.
Is there any sum or value in dispute in this case? While
the act does not prescribe the amount, some sum or value
must be in dispute. Albright v. Territory o1 New Mexico, 200
U. S.9. The matter in dispute is the right to have the goods
which were tendered for shipment transported to their destination. As a common carrier, the railroad was bound to
receive and transport the goods. Its refusal so to do was
based upon the statute in question because of the non-inspection of the goods tendered. The relators claimed the right to
have their goods transported because the statute-was null and
void, being an unconstitutional enactment. The controversy,
therefore, relates to the right of the appellants to have their
goods transported by the railroad company to the place of
destination. We think this was a valuable right, measurable

McLEAN v. DENVER & RIO GRANDE R. R. CO. 49
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in money. At common law, a cause of action arose from the
refusal of a common carrier to transport goods duly tendered
for carriage. Ordinarily, the measure of damages in such case
is the difference between the value of.the goods at the point
of tender and their value at their proposed destination, less
the cost of carriage. We are. of tle opinion that this controversy involves a money value within the meaning of the
statute, and the motion to dismiss the appeal will be overruled.
Passing to the merits of the controversy, Congress has conferred legislative power upon the Territory to an extent not
inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the -United
States. Rev. Stat. § 1851. It is contended that the act
under consideration contravenes that part of Article one,
Section ten, of the Constitution of the United States, which
reads: "No State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay
any imposts or duties on imports or exports, except what may
be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws."
And also that part of the eighth section of Article one of the
Constitution of the United States, which gives to Congress
the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and
among the States and with the Indian tribes.
As to the objection predicated on Section ten of Article one,
that section can have no application to the present case, as
that provision directly applies 'only to articles imported or
exported to foreign- countries. Patapsco Guano Co. v. North
Carolina Board of Agriculture, 171 U. S. 345, 350, and cases
cited. Moreover, that paragraph of the Constitution expressly
reserves the right of the States to pass inspection laws, and if.
this law is of that character it.does not run counter to this
requirement of the Constitution.
The question principally argued is as to the effect of this
law upon interstate commerce, and it is urged that it is in
violation of the Constitution, because it undertakes to regulate interstate commerce and lays upon it a tax not within
the power of the local legislature to exact. It has been too
frequently decided by this court to require the restatement
VOL. ccii-4

OCTOBER .TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

of the decisions, that the exclusive power to regulate interstate commerce is vested by the Constitution in Congress, and
that other laws which undertake to regulate such commerce
or impose burdens upon it are invalid. This doctrine has
been reaffirmed and announced in cases decided as recently
as the last term of this court. Houston & Texas Central R. R.
Co. V. Mayes, 201 U. S. 321; McNicll v. Southern Railway Co.,
202 U. S. 543. While this is true, it is equally well settled
that a State or a Territory, for the same reasons, in the exercise of the police power, may make rules and regulations not
conflicting with the legislation of Congress upon the same
subject, and not amounting to regulations of interstate commerce. It will only be necessary to refer to a few of the many
cases decided in this court holding valid enactments of legislatures having for their object the protection, welfare and
safety of the people, although such laws may have an effect
upon interstate commerce. M., K. & T. R. R. Co. v. Haber,
169 U. S. 613, 635; Chicago, Milwaukee &c. R. R. Co. v. Solan,
169 U. S. 133; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S.
477. The principle decided in these cases is that a State or
Territory has the right to legislate for the safety and welfare
of its people, and that this right is not taken from it because
of the exclusive right of CGngress to regulate interstate commerce, except in cases where the attempted .exercise of authority by the legislature is in conflict with an act of Congress,
or is an attempt to regulate interstate commerce. In Patapsco
Guano Co. v. North Carolina Board of Agriculture, 171 U. S.
345, it was directly recognized that the State might pass
inspection laws for the protection of its people against fraudulent practices and for the suppression of frauds, although such
legislation had an effect upon interstate commerce. The same
principle was recognized in Neilson v. Garza, 2 Woods, 287, a
case decided by Mr. Justice Bradley on the circuit and quoted
from at length with approval by Mr. Chief Justice Fuller in
the Patapsco case.
Applying the principles recognized in these chses to the

McI.EAN v. DENVER & RIO GRANDE R. R. CO. 51
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

case at bar, does the act in question do violence to the exclusive right of Congress to regulate interstate commerce? We
take judicial notice of the fact that in the Territory of New
Mexico, and in other similar parts of the West, cattle are
required to be branded in order to identify their ownership,
and that they run at large in great stretches of country with
no other means of determining their separate ownership than
by the brands or marks upon them. In view of these considerations, and for the purpose of protecting the owners of cattle against fraud and criminal seizures of their property, the
Territory of New Mexico has made provision, by means of a
system of laws enacted for the purpose; for the protection of the
ownership of cattle and the prevention of fraudulent appropriaations of this kind of property. The legislation upon the subject in the Territory is thus summarized in the opinion, in this
case, of the Supreme Court of New Mexico, 78 Pac. Rep. 74:
"The first act relating to inspection of hides was passed in
1884, and provided that all butchers should keep a record of
all 'nimals slaughtered, and keep the hides and horns of
such animals for thirty days after slaughter, free to the inspection of all persons (Compiled Laws, section 84), and
provided a penalty for failure to keep the record and the
hides and horns, (sect. 86,) and a penalty for refusal of inspection of the record or hides, (sect. 87).- In 1891 all persons
were required. to keep hides for thirty days for the inspection
of any sheriff, deputy sheriff, or any constable, or any board
or inspector, or any officer authorized to inspect hides (sect.
89), and provided a penalty, (sect. 90). In 1889, amended
in 1895, (p. 70, c. 29, § 4), a cattle sanitary board was created,
(sect. 183,) with power to adopt and enforce quarantine regulations and regulations for the inspection of cattle for sale
and slaughter, (sect. 184,) and pay to inspectors not to exceed
$2.50 per clay and their 6xpenses, (sect. 190). In 1891, the
cattle sanitary board was authorized and required to make
regulations concerning inspection of cattle for shipment, and
hides and slaughter-houses, (sect. 208,) and there was pro-

OCTQBER TERM, 1006.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

vided the details of arrangement for the inspection of cattle,
(sect. 212), and the duties of cattle inspector: were enlarged
by -providing: 'Every slaughter-house in tiis Territory shall
be carefully inspected by some one, of the inspectors aforesaid, and all hides found in such 'slaughter-houses shall be
carefully compared with the records of such slaughter-houses,
and a r'epol-t in writing setting forth the number of cattle
killed at. any such slaughter-house since the-last inspection,
the names of the persons from whom each of. said cattle was
bought, the, brands, and marks uponi each hide, and any in.formation that may, be obtained touching the violation by
the owner of any such slaughter-houses, or any other person,
of the provisions of an act entitled, An act for the protection
of stock, and for other,. 'purposes, approved April 1, 1884.
For the .purpose of making the'inspection authorized by this
act, any inspector employed by the said; sanitary board shall
have the right to enter, in the day or. nigit time, any slaughter-house or other place where cattle are killed in this Territ6ry, and to carefully examine the same, and all books
and records required by law to be kept therein, and to compate the hides-found therein with such records,' (sect. 213).
In 1893, it was provided that the cattle sanitary board irmight
fix fees for'the. inspection of cattle and hides, (sect. 221, repealed in 1889,) and that such fees shall be paid to the. scretary of the board and placed to the credit of the cattle
sanitary board, (sect. 222,) .and, shall be used, together with
funds realized from taxes levied and assessed, or to be- levied
and assessed,, upon cattle only, to defray the expenses of the
board,.(sect. 220).. Chapter 44 of the Laws of 1889 makes no.
changes in the law material to the consideration of this case.
Chapter 53 of the Laws of 1889 provides .a fee of three cents
for the inspection of cattle."

In pari materia with this legislation the act of 1901, now
under consideration, was passed. Sections three and four of
that act are as follows:
•"SEc 3. Hereafter it shall be Unlawful for any person, firm

McLEAN v. DENVER & RIO GRANDE R. R. CO. 53
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or corporation to offer, or any railroad company or other common carrier to receive, for the purpose of shipment or transportation beyond the limits of this Territory, any hides that
have not been inspected, and.. tagged by a duly autthorized
inspector of the cattle sanitary board of New Mexico, for the
district in which such hides originate. For each hide thus
inspected there shall be paid by theowner or holder thereof
a fee or charge of, ten cents, and such fee- or-charge shall be
a lien upon the hides thus inspected, until the same shall
have been paid. Each inspector of hides shall keep a complete record of all inspections made by him, and shall at
once, forwar d to the secretary of the cattle sanitary board, on
blanks furnished.him for that purpose, a complete report of
each inspection, giving the naies of the purchaser and ship•per of the hides, as well as all the brands thereon, which said
report shall be preserved by the secretary as a part of the
records of his office.
"SEC. 4. Any person, firm or cbrporation, common carrier,
railroad company or agent thereof, violatig any provision
of this act, or refusing to permit the inspection of any hides
as herein provided, shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed
guilty of a misdermeanor, and shall be fined, in any sum not
exceeding one .thousand dollars for each and -every violation
of the provisions of this act."
The purpose of these provisions is apparent, and it is to
prevent the. criminal or fraudulent appropriation of cattle by
requiring the inspection of hides and registration by a record
which preserVes the name of the. shipper and purchaser of
the hides, as well as the brands thereon, and by which is
afforded some evidence, at least, tending to identify the Qwnership of the cattle. It is evident that the provision as to*the
shipment of the hides beyond the limits of the Territory is
essetitial to this purpose, for if the hides can be surreptitiously
or criminally obtained and shipped beyond such limits, without inspection or registration, a very convenient door is open.
to the perpetration of fraud and the prevention of discovery.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

It is argued that this act lays a special burden upon interstate commerce, because under the law hides not offered for
transportation are not required to be inspected after thirty
days in slaughter-houses and not at all outside of slaughterhouses. But legislation is not void because it meets the exigencies of a particular situation. Other statutory provisions
apply to property remaining in the Territory where 'possibly
it may be found and identified. When shipped beyond the
limits of, the Territory the means of reaching it are beyond
local control, and it is the purpose of sections 3 aid 4 of the
act of 1901, to preserve within the Territory a record of the
brands identifying the property and naming the purchaser or
shipper. Certainly we cannot judicially say that there can
be no valid reason for making the inspection in question apply
only to hides offered for transportation beyond the Territory,
and that for that reason the tax is an arbitrary discrimination
against interstate traffic.
It is urged further that this is a mere revenue law and in
no just sense an inspection law, and, therefore, not within the
police power conferred upon the Territory. It is true that
inspection laws ordinarily'have for their object the improvement of quality and to protect the community against fraud
and imposition in the character of the article received for sale
or to be exported, but in the Patapsco case, supra, it was
directly recognized that inspection laws such as the one under
consideration might be passed in the exercise of the police
power, and such was the view of Mr. Justice Bradley in Neilson v. Garza, supra, decided on the circuit. We see no reason
why an inspection law which has for its purpose the protection of the community against fraud and the promotion of
the welfare of the people cannot be passed in the exercise of
the police power, when the legislation tends to subserve the
purp6se in view. In the Territory of New Mexico, and other
parts of the country similarly situated, it is highly essential
,to protect large numbers of people against criminal aggression
upon this class of property. The exercise of the police power

McLEAN v. DENVER & RIO GRANDE R. R.'CO. 55
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

may and should have reference to the peculiar situation and
needs of the community. The law under consideration,
designed to prevent the clandestine removal of property in
which a large number of the people of the Territory are interested, seems to us an obviously rightful exercise of this power.
It is true it affects interstate commerce, but we do not think
such was its primary purpose, and while it may have an effect
to levy a tax upon -this class of property, the main purpose
evidently was to protect, the people against fraud and wrong.
It is further urged that this law is invalid because it imposes
an unreasonable fee for the inspection, which goes into the
treasury of the sanitary board; and the allegations of the writ
tend to show that an inspector might make a considerable
sum in excess of day's wages ii the work of inspecting hides
under the provisions of this act. The law being otherwise
valid, the amount of the inspection fee is not a judicial question; it rests with the legislature to fix the amount, and it
can only present a valid objection when it is shown that it is
so unreasonable and disproportionate to the services rendered
as to attack the good faith of the law. Patapsco Guano Co. v.
North Carolina Board of Agriculture, 171 U. S. 345.
We are of the. opinion that the allegations of the relator as
to the cost of inspection, compared with the fees authorized
to be charged, and the profit which might accrue to the inspector, in view of other and necessary incidental expense
connected with the inspection and registration, do not bring
the case within that class which holds that under the guise
of inspection other and different purposes are to be subserved,
thus rendering the legislation invalid.
Upon the whole case, we are of the opinion that, in the
absence of Congressional legislation covering the subject, and
making a different provision, the act in controversy is a valid
exercise of the police power of the Territory, and not in violation of the Constitution giving exclusive power to Congress
.in the regulation of interstate commerce.
Affirmed,

