CONBOY v. FIRST NAT. BK. OF JERSEY CITY. 141
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

not be found out what "the duty herein provided" is, or
whether it is specific or ad valorem, without making a valuation under the previous paragraphs, just as if 313 did not exist. Paragraphs 306 and 307 tell the collector to make it on
all cotton and to assess a duty on all cotton above a certain
value after the valuation is made. Paragraph 313 assumes

the duty imposed by 306 and 307 to have br'., ."kCsfed. As
inmanifest
Ynm
against these plain directions, coupled with
tent of the act, the failure to mention value aiong with weight

raises no serious doubt in our minds.
Decree reversed.

CONBOY v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF JERSEY CITY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 54.

Argued October 23, 1906.-Decided November 19, 1908.

Congress having provided by section 25b of the Bankrupt-y Act that appeals may be baq under such rules and within such time as may be prescribed by this court, the thirty day limitations in General Order in
Bankruptcy XXXVI has the same effect as if written in the statute
and the allowance of an appeal taken thereafter on certificate by a justice
of this court from the Circuit Court of Appeals cannot operate as an adjudication that it is taken in time.
The time within which an appeal may be taken under section 25b of the
Bankruptcy Act and General' Order in Bankruptcy XXXVI runs from
the entry of the original judgment or decree and when expired is not
revived by a petition for rehearing. Appeals do not lie from orders
denying petitions for' rehearing which are addressed to the discretion
of the court to afford it an opportunity to correct its own errors.
The time for appeal cannot after it has expired be extended by an application for rehearing or arrested by an order of the court, even though
the application be made during the same term at which judgment was
entered.
Appeal from 135 Fed. Rep. 77, dismissed.

THz facts axe stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

Mr. Martin Conboy for appellant:
The appeal was properly taken; the petition for rehearing was addressed to the discretion of the court and extended
the time, as all judgments are under the control of the court
during the term at which they are rendered. Brockett v.
Brockett, 2 How. 238; Aspen Mining and Smelting Co. v. Billings, 150 U. S. 31; Voorhees v. Noye Mfg. Co., 151 U. S. 135;
Slaughter-House Cases, 10 Wall. 273, 289; Railroad Co. v.
Bradleys,.7 Wall. 575; Memphis v. Brown, 94 U. S. 715; Tex.
& Pac. Ry. v. Murphy, 111 U. S. 4S8; Sage v. Central R. R.
Co., 93 U. S. 412, 418; Cambuston v. United States, 95 U. S.
285; Kingman v. Western Mfg. Co., 170 U. S. 675, and cases
cited, p. 678.
A possible rehearing is a necessary incident to every judgment or decree, the right to which cannot be cut off during
the term except by express statute or rulc of court.
A judgment or decree must be properly entered, in order
to start the statute of limitation of the ti - to appeal. Polleys v. Black River Imp. Co., 113 U. S. 81; Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 6 Wall. 153; Yznaga Del Vall:? v Harrison, 93 U. S.
233; United States v. Gomcz, 1 Wall. C-9(
Where an appeal to this court is nerm ed by the Bankrupt Act from a determination of the Circuit Court of Appeals, the judgment is not properly enfered until the mandatory provision of subd. 3 of Cvno ;J ('der XXXVI has
been complied with. The "'making ai:d filing" of the findto therein is a
reL
ings of fact and conclusions of
necessary prerequisite to the proper ciitry of the judgment.
See Insurance Co. v. Boon, 95 U. S. !7.
;worred

Mr. William G. Wilson, for kppelh-e.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE

FULLE,

deli "'red the opinion of the

court.
This is an appeal from a final or0Y- cf the Circuit Court of

CONBOY
203 U. S.

:,.

7IRST NAT. BK. OF JERSEY CITY. 143
Op:nion of t h Court.

Appeals for the Second Circuit affirming an order of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York, filed June 7, 1904, affirming an order of a referee
in bankruptcy "In the n.atter of Phillip Semmer Glass Com2'ated May 7, 1904, allowing
pany, Limited. _Dankrup(,
the claim of the First National Bank of Jersey City against
the bankrupt's tate.
The final or,.- r of +he Circuit Court of Appeals was entered January -13 1905. The trustee petitioned that court,
April 25, to :. its maudate and vacate the order therefor,
anic the aprphcav;n was denied. On May 8, a petition for
i. led, which was denied May 17, and an order
rehearing
o hat effect .' t, r'd May 24. A petition, dated the same
day, was the, upon presented to a justice of this court, praying an app(ai 'from the whole of the said order of affirmance
of the Circu., Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, dated
the twenty- hh'd day of Janaiary,. 1905, and from the whole
of the said order of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sec'nd Circuit. dated the twenty-fifth day of April, 1905, denying the moticn of your petitioner to recall the mandate of
said court and cancel the order for same, and from the whole
of the said order of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, dated the twenty-fourth day of May, 1905, denying' the petition of the said trustee for a rehearing;" and
for the reversal of "said orders and decrees, &c., and every
part thereof."
Appeal was allowed and certificate granted under ยง25b,
par. 2, of the Bankruptcy Act, May 27, 1905. Thereafter and
on June 14, 1905, findings of fact and conclusions of law were
filed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, "nnc_ pro tunc, as though
the same were made and filed at the time of entry of the
judgment of this court on the twenty-third day of January,
1905."
The following provisions of the Bankruptcy Act are 'applicable:
"SEC. 25b. From any final decision of a Court of Appeals,

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

allowing or rejecting a claim under this act, an appeal may
be had under such rules and within such time as may be
prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States, in the
following cases and no other:
"2. Where some Justice of the Supreme Court of the United
States shall certify that in his opinion the determination of
the question or questions involved in the allowance or rejection of such claim is essential to a uniform construction of
this act throughout the United States."
Paragraphs 2 and 3 of General Orders in Bankruptcy,
XXXVI, read:
"2. Appeals under the act to the Supreme Court-of the
United States from a Circuit" Court of Appeals, or from the
Supreme Court of a Territory, or from the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia, or from any court of bankruptcy
whatever, shall be taken within thirty days after the judgment or decree, and shall be allowed by a judge of the court
appealed from, or by a Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States.
"3. In every case in which either party is entitled by the
act to take an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United
States, the court from which the appeal lies shall, at or before the time of entering its judgment or decree, make and
file a finding of the facts, and its conclusions of law thereon,
stated separately; and the record transmitted to the Supreme
Court of the United States on such an appeal shall-consist
Sonly of the pleadings,. the judgment or decree, the finding of
facts, and'the conclusions of law."
The law provides that appeals shall be taken "within suchtime as may be prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States," and by General Order XXXVI this court prescribed the time and limited it to thirty days, in harmony
with the policy of the Bankruptcy Act, requiring prompt
action and the avoidance of delay.
The limitation has the same effect as if written in the stat-

CONBOY v. FIRST NAT. BK. OF JERSEY CITY. 145
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ute, and the allowance of an appeal on certificate cannot
operate as an adjudication that it is taken in time.
The: present appeal was allowed four months "after the
judgment or decree" appealed. from and three months after
the time to appeal had expired.
But it is said that the limitation should be referred to the
date of the order denying the petition for rehearing, and the
trustee prayed an appeal from that order as well as from the
judgment of January 23.
No appeal lies from orders denying petitions for rehearing,
which are addressed to the discretion of the court and designed to afford it an opportunity to correct its own errors.
Brockelt v. Brockett, 2 How. 238;, Wylie v. Coxe, 14 How. 1.
Appellant might have made his application for rehearing
and had it determined within the thirty days, and still have
had time to take his appeal. But he let the thirty days expire, as it did February 22, 1905, and did not file his petition
until May 8, 1905. The right of appeal had then been lost and
appellant could not reinvest himself with that right by filing
a petition for rehearing.
The cases cited for appellant, in which it was held that an
application for a rehearing, made before the time for appeal
had expired, suspended the running of the period for taking
an appeal, are not applicable when' that period had already
expired. "When the time for taking an appeal has expired,
it cannot be arrested or called back by a simple order of court.
If it could be, the law which limits the time within which an
appeal can be taken would be a dead letter." Credit Company, Limited, v. Arkansas Central Railway Company, 128 U. S.
258, 261.
In the circumstances, the suggestion that there is, but one
term of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit,
and that, by the rules of practice. of that court, petitions for
rehearing may be presented at any time during the term, and
therefore that this petition operated to enlarge the limitation
of the Bankruptcy Act, is without merit.
. VOL. CCIII-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

The petition was denied. Whether it could have been
granted in view of the terms and spirit of the Bankruptcy
Act, or the effect, if it had been, we are not called upon to
discuss.
Appeal dismissed.

GOUDY v. MEATH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 53.

Submitted October 23, 1006.-Decided November 19, 1906.

Where a State by statute makes the allotted lands of Indians alienable
the same as lands of citizens, and Congress by statute postpones the
operation of the state statute for a definite period, when that period
has expired all restriction upon alienation both voluntary and involuntary by operation of law, such as taxation and levy and sale thereunder. ccnscs.
Although Congress may by statute give Indians a right of voluntary alienation of allotted lands but exempt such lands from levy, sale and forfeiture, such an exemption cannot exist by implication but must be clearly
manifested.
By the act of February 8, 1887, allottee Indians became citizens and their
property, unless clearly exempted by statute, is subject to taxation
in the same manner as that of other citizens.
38 Washington, 126, affirmed.

THIS case is before us on error to the Supreme Court of
Washington. 38 Washington, 126. It was submitted to the
state courts on an agreed statement of facts and involves the
question of the liability of the land of the plaintiff, now plaintiff in error, to taxation for the year 1904. He is a Puyallup
Indian, and claims exemption under and by virtue of the
treaty of December 26. 1854. 10 Stat. 1132. That treaty
provided for an allotment of land in severalty to such members of the tribe as were willing to avail themselves of the
privilege, on the same terms and subject to the same regulatior.s as were named in the treaty with the Omahas.

