OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Statement of the Case.

203 U. S.

demands a reduction the company may and doubtless will
make it. In addition it must be borne in mind that it is to be
presumed that the railroad commission acted with full knowledge of the situation; that phosphates were in Florida possibly
carried a long distance, the place of mining being far from
the place of actual use or preparation for use. Further, when
we turn to the report of the railroad company (which of course
is evidence against it) we find that the company's average
freight receipt per ton per mile in the State of Florida was
8 A-50 mills; so that the rate authorized for phosphates was

nearly two mills per ton larger than such average. Under
these circumstances it is impossible to say that there was
error in the conclusions of the Supreme Court of the State,
and its judgments are
Affirmed.

HEYMAN v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 32.

Submitted October 17, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.

In the absence of Congressional legislation goods moving in interstate commerce cease to be such commerce only after delivery and sale in the
original package.
The word "arrival" as used in the Wilson law means delivery of the goods to
the consignee, and not merely reaching their destination and expressions
to that effect in Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412 are not obiter.
The power of the State over intoxicating liquors, from other States in
original packages after delivery and before sale given by the Wilson law
does not attach before notice and expiration of a reasonable time for
the consignee to receive the goods from the carrier; and this rule is not
affected by the fact that under the state law the carrier's liability as
such may have ceased and become that of a warehouseman.
118 Georgia, 616, reversed.

THE. facts

are stated in the opinion.

HEYMAN v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO.
203 V. ..

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Samuel H. Myers and Mr. Milton Strasburgerfor plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joseph B. Cumming for defendant in error.
Ma. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.
In March, 1902, P. B. Wise and H. D). Harkins, residents of
Charleston, South Carolina, each ordered a cask of whiskey
from Paul Heyman, a wholesale liquor dealer in Augusta,
Georgia. The price of the whiskey accompanied the orders,
which were given upon the understanding that if for any cause
delivery was not made to the consignees the purchase price
would be refunded.
The two casks of whiskey, consigned to the respective
purchasers at Charleston, were delivered to the Southern Railway Company at Augusta. In due course the packages of
liquor reached Charleston, and were by the railroad company
at once unloaded into its warehouse, ready for delivery. The
record does not show that the consignees were notified of the
arrival of the goods. Shortly after the goods were so placed
in the warehouse of the railroad company they were seized and
taken from its possession. The seizures were made without
any warrant or other process, by constables asserting their
right to do so under thae authority of what is known as the
dispensary law of South Carolina, which law was considered
in Vance v. Vandcrcook Co., No. 1, 170 U. S.438. The agent
of the railroad company did not resist the seizure.
Thereafter, Heyman, the consignor, sued the railroad company for failing to make the deliveries as contracted in the
bills of lading, and in the Superior Court of Richmond County,
on appeal from a justice's court, obtained a verdict and judgment. The case was appealed to the Supreme Court of Georgia, and by that court the judgment was reversed and the
case remanded. 118 Georgia, 616. On the second trial the defendant had a verdict and judgment; and on appeal the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Georgia 'upon
the authority of its previous opinion. The case was then
brought here.
The act of Congress of August .8,1890, commonly known
as the Wilson Act, provides that all intoxicating liquors "transported into any State or Territory, or remaining therein for
use, consuml)tion, sale or storage therein, shall, vlpon arrival
'in such State or Territory, be subject to the operation and effect
of the laws of such State or Territory, enacted in the exercise
of its police powers, to the same extent and in the same manner
as though such liquids or liquors had been produced in such
State or Territory, and shall not be exempt therefrom by reason of being introduced therein in original packages or otherwise."
The Supreme Court of Georgia held-although the goods had
not been delivered to the consignees and Although there was
no showing of notice to them from the carrier, or even if notice
by the local law was unnecessary, of the lapse of a reasonable
time for the consignees to call for and accept delivery-that.
as the interstate transportation of the goods ended when, they
were placed in the warehouse, and the carrier was thenceforward liable only as a warehouseman, and that the goods
ceased to be under the shelter of the interstate commerce clause
of the Constitution. This was based upon the conclusion that
goods warehoused under the circumstances stated must be
considered as having arrived within the ineaning of the Wilson
Act, and therefore the packages of liquor in question were
lawfully seized because subject to the police authority of the
State of South Carolina. The meaning thus affixed to the
word "arrival," as employed in the Wilson Act, was adopted
after consideration of the opinion in Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S.
412. While it was conceded by the learned court that language contained in the opinion in that case indicated that this
court deemed delivery essential to constitute "arrival" within
the Wilson Act, yet as the expressions in the opinion to that
effect were not binding, as they were merely obiter, since the

HEYMAN v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Rhodes case was only concerned with whether goods had come
under the state authority on reaching their place of destination and before they had been warehoused by the carrier.
We cannot concur in the view taken by the learned court
of the decision in the Rhodes case. In that case a railroad
cmploy6 at a town in Iowa was indicted under the law of that
State because after an interstate shipment of liquors had
reached the depot of the final carrier, at the point of destination, he moved the package from. the platform where it had
been placed on being unloaded to a freight warehouse belonging to the railroad company, a few feet away. It was insisted
on behalf of the State of Iowa that the effect of the Wilson Act
was to confer upon that State the power to subject to state
regulations merchandise shipped from another State the
moment it reached the boundary line of the State of Iowa.
On the other hand, it was contended that an interstate shipment of liquor did not arrive :within that State within the
meaning of the Wilson Act until the consummation of the
shipment by delivery at its destination to the consignee. The
case, therefore, necessarily involved deciding the meaning of
the word arrival in the Wilson Act, and this required an ascertainment of when goods shipped from one State to another,
generally speaking, ceased to be controlled by the interstate
commerce clause of the Constitution, and how far the general
rule resulting from the power of Congress to regulate conmerce had been limited, if at all. by the provisions of the
Wilson Act. Considering the hfirt question. the elementary
and long-settled doctrine was reiterated, thatt delivery and sale
in the original l)ackage was necessary to terminate interstate
commerce, so far.as the police regulations of the States were
concerned. In passing upon the second question the court,
referring to a previous case involving the Wilson law, In. re
Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, pointed out that the c0nteltion which
was made in that ease, that the Wilson Act was repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States because it was an
abdication by Congress of its power to regulate commerce,
VOL. eci-l

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

was held to be untenable, because the Wilson Act was simply
legislation by Congress creating a uniform rule applicable to
all the States, by which liquor, when the subject of interstate
commerce, could come under the power of a State at an earlier
(late than it otherwise would have done. Contemplating the
grouIds of the previous ruling upholdinig the constitutionality
of the Wilson Act and coming to precisely determine the
nicaning of the word "arrival' as used in that act, it was said
ini the R/hode' case (p. 426):
"Interpreting the statute by the light of all its provisions,
it was not intended to and did not cause the power of the State
to attach to an interstate commerce shipment, whilst the
merchandise was in transit under such shipment, and until
its arrival at the point of destination and delivery there to the
consignee."
And is a result of this ascertainment of the meaning of the
Wilson Act it was held that as the act of moving the goods
preceded the period affixed by the Wilson Act at which the
state power could attach, the conviction was erroneous.
The Rhodes case involved of necessity a construction of the
import of the Wilson Act, and the mere fact that the particular
conduct which happened in that case to be the subject of complaint occurred prior to the delivery did not operate to cause
the affirmative construction which was given to the Wilson
Act, and which it was necessary to give, to be obiter, and,
therefore, subject to be disregarded. And a case decided by
this court on the same day as the Rhodes case leaves no room
for controversy concerning the affirmative construction given
to the Wilson Act in the Rhodes case. The case referred to is
Vance v. Vandercook Co., No. 1, 170 U. S. 438. The court
said (p. 451):
"The interstate commerce clause of' the Constitution guarantees the right to ship merchandise from one State into
another, and protects it until the termination of the shipment
by delivery at the place of consignment, and this right is
wbolly unaffected by the act of Congress which allows state

HEYMAN v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

authority to attach to the original package before sale but
only after delivery. Scott v. Donald, and Rhodes v. The State
of Iowa, 8upra. It follows that under the Constitution of the
United States every resident of South Carolina is free to receive for his own use liquor from other States and that the
inhibitions of a state statute do not operate to prevent liquors
from other States from being shipped into such State, on the
order of a resident for his use."
And in subsequent cases the construction adopted in the
previous cases of the word "arrival" as employed in the Wilson
Act has been reaffirmed and applied. Thus in American Express Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133, in reviewing the Rhodes case
the meaning of the Wilson Act was again reiterated, the court
saying (p. 142):
"The contention was that, as by the Wilson Act, the power
of the State operated upon the property the moment it passed
the state boundary line, therefore the State of iowa had the
right to forbid the transportation of the merchandise within
the State and to punish those carrying it therein. This was
not sustained. The court declined to express an opinion as to
the authority of Congress, under its power to regulate commerce, to delegate to the States the right to forbid the transportation of merchandise from one State to another. It was,
however, decided that the Wilson Act manifested no attempt
on the part of Congress to exert such power, but was only a
regulation of commerce, since it merely provided, in'the case
of intoxicating liquors, that such merchandise, when transported from one State to another, should lose its character as
interstate commerce upon completion of delivery under the
contract of interstate shipment, and before sale in the original
packages."
Again, in Foppiano v. Speed; 199 U, S. 501, referring to the
Wilson Act and its previous construction, it *as declared
(p. 517):
"This act was held to be constitutional in the case of In re
Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, and that by virtue of said act, state

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

statutes might operate upon the original packages of intoxicating liquors before sale in the State. Rhodes v. Iowa, 170
U. S. 412, and Vance v. IV. A. Vandercook Company, No. 1,
170 U. S. 438, held that the state statute must permit the
delivery of the liquors to the party to whom they were consigned within tic State, but that, after such.delivery, the
State had power to prevent the sale of the liquors, even in the
original package."
As the general principle is that goods moving in interstate
commerce cease to be such commerce only after delivery and
sale in the original package, and as the settled rule is that the
Wilson law was not an abdication of the power of Congress to
regulate interstate commerce, since that law simply affects an
incident of such commerce by allowing the State power to
attach after delivery and before sale, we are not concerned
with whether, under the law of any particular,State, the liability of a railroad company as carrier ceases and becomes that
of a warehouseman on the goods reaching their ultimate
destination before notice and before the expiration of a reasonable time for the consignee to receive the goods from the
carrier. For, whatever may be the divergent legal rules in the
several States concerning the precise time when the liability
of a carrier as such in respect to the carriage of goods ends,
they cannot affect the general principle as to when an interstate shipn,ent ceases to be under the protection of the commerce clause of the Constitution, and thereby, comes under the
control of the state authority.
Of course we are not called upon in this case, and do not
decide, if goods of the character referred to in the Ailson Act,
moving in interstate commerce, arrive at the point of destination and after notice and full opportunity to receive them are
designedly left in the hands of the carrier for an unreasonable
time, that such conduct on the part of the consignee might not
justify, if affirmatively alleged and proven, the holding that
goods so dealt with have cone under the operation of the
Wilson Act, because constructively delivered. We say we

HEYMAN v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO.
203 U. S.

I Opinion of the Court.

are not called upon to consider this question, for the reason
that no facts are shown by the record justifying passing on
such a proposition. And as in this case we deal only with the
power of the State to enforce its police regulations against
goods of the character of those enumerated in the Wilson Act,
the subject of interstate commerce, before delivery, we must
not be understood as in any way limiting or restricting the
ruling made in Vance v. Vandercook Co., No. 1, supra, upholding the right of a citizen of one State to bring from another
State into the State of his residence, and kee l) therein, for his
personal use, the merchandise referred to in the Wilson Act.
In other words, as in the case at bar, delivery had not taken
place when the seizures were made, and the control of the
State over the goods had not attached, we are not called upon
to consider whether, if the power of the State had attached
by delivery, the State might not have levied upon the goods
on the charge that they had not been bona fide brought into
the State, and were not'held by the consignees for their personal use,_ and, therefore, were not within the ruling in Vance
v. Vandercook Co., No. 1, supra.
The conclusion that the court below erred in declining to
follow the prior rulings of this court construing the Wilson
Act disposes of the entire controversy arising Qn the record
before us, for the following reasons: In its answer filed in the
trial court the railroad company substantially defended alone
upon the ground that the seizure was rightful. And the
Supreme Court of Georgia treated the liability of the defendant as depending solely upon the validity of the seizure. The
court said:
"If they [the goods] were still in the course of interstate
transportation, the seizure by the constable was not even prima
[acie legal, for the very law under whih the seizure was made
had, prior to such seizure, been declared by the Supreme
Court of the United States to be unconstitutional in so far as
it interfered with interstate commerce. Scott v. Donald, 165
U. S. 58. It, therefore, follows that if the shipment had not

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.

278

Statement of the Case.

203'U. S.

been completed- at the time the goods were seized, the railroad
company would have no right to defend .on the ground that it
submitted to the superior authority, granting that such a de-

fense, if established, would relieve it from liability."
• Moreover, in this court counsel in their brief onf behalf of
the defendant in error rely exclusively upon the correctness of
the construction given to the Wilson Act by the court below,
and do not urge, in the event such construction be not sustained, that it was exempt for any reason'whatever from
liability.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia is reversed
and the case is remanded to that court fdr further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

C. H. NICHOLS'LUMBER COMPANY v. FRANSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WI'STEIN I)ISTIZlCT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 30.

Argued October 17, 1900.-Decided December 3, 1906.

A declaration that plaintiff is a resident of a State of the U"nion and a citizen
of a foreign country under a nmonarchical form of government is sufficient
to show the meaning of the pleader and the nationality of the plaintiff,
and there is no merit in an objection to the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, diverse citizenship eiting, because plaintiff was not a citizen but
a subject of the foreign power.
While under the Judiciary Act of 1891, in case of direct review on question
of jurisdiction, when the record does not otherwise show how the question
was raised, the certificate of the Circuit Court may be considered for the
purpose of supplyimg such deficiency; when the elements necessary' to
decide the question are in the record the better practice, in every case. of
direct review on question of jurisdiction, is to make apparent on the record
by a bill of exceptions, or other appropriate mode, the fact that the
question of jurisdiction was raised, and passed on, and also the' elements
upon which the question was decided.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

