CRANE v. BUCKLEY.
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

We do not think that the case comes within the provisions
of section 1909, permitting an appeal to this court only in cases
involving the question of personal freedom.
The appeal will be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER took no part in

the decision of 'this

case.,

CRANE v. BUCKLEY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 58. Argued October 25, 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.
The obligation of sureties upon bonds is strictissini juris and not to be
extended by implication or enlarged construction of the -terms of the
contract entered. into.
Sureties on a supersedeas bond given by defendant to answer, in case of
.. is failure to prosecute his appeal to effect, to plaintiff for loss in use
and possession of premises, which, under decree of Circuit Court. plaintiff
was entitled to rednter on a date therein specified in default of payment
by defendant of balance of purchase price, held not liable on the bond
where the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree as to plaintiff's
right to reenter in case of non-payment, but modified it by giving defendant until a later date to make the final payment, thereby also extending his right of possession until that date.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles S. Cushing, with whom Mr. William Grant was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
- The bond under consideration is given under ยง 1000, Rev.
Stat., and is a formal 'instrument required by the law, and
governed by the law, and has, by nearly a, century's use become a formula in legal proceedings, with a fixed and definite
meaning. Hotel Co. v. Kountze, 107 U. S. 378.
The affirmance of the judgment by the upper court con-

clusively establishes the-liability of the appellant on the bond.

OCTOBER TERM, 1906,
Argument for Defendant in Error

203 U. S.

Davis v. Patrick, 57 Fed. Rep. 909; Babbit v. Shields, 101
U. S. 7.
The only question to consider is, was the judgment of the
lower court affirmed? In the case now under consideration
the judge, who first tried the case in the lower court, determined that the judgment had been affirmed and instructed
the jury accordingly. This ruling was correct although reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals..
As to the term "prosecute to effect," meaning "prosecute
with success," see 10 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 445;
Perreau v. Bevan, 5 B. & C. 284; Gould v. Warner, 3 Werid.
(N. Y.) 54; Karthaus v. Owings, 6 H. & J.(Md.) 138.
The construction placed upon this phrase, "prosecute 'to
effect," by the bulk of authorities, is that the suit shall e.
prosecuted successfully to a final judgment. Note to 38 Am.
St. Rep. 706; Wood v. Thomas, 5 Blackford, 553; Trent v.
Rhomberg, 66 Texas, 253; Butt v. Stinger, 4 Cr. C. C. 252:
Hopkins v. Orr, 124 U. S. 510.
The decree entered by the lower court, modifying the former
judgment, is a false quantity in the case and cannot affect the
question as to whether Buckley made good his appeal. The
action of the upper court in affirming the judgment conclusively
established the liability on the bond. Davis v. Patrick, 57
Fed. Rep. 909; Babbitt v. Shields, 101 U. S. 7.
Mr. D. M. Delmas for defendant in error, submitted:
The right of Buckley to remain in possession of the premises
was coextensive with his right to complete the payment of the
amount adjudged to be due to Crane. Gessner v. Palmateer,
89 California, 91, 97; Dingley v. Bank of Ventura, 57 California,
471; Avery v. Clark, 87 California, 619; Sparks v. Hesse, 15
California, 194; Purser v. Cody, 120 California, 218.
The appeal was prosecuted to effect so far as the possession
of the property was concerned, betweefli January 1, 1899, and
November 1, 1899, and, therefore, the sureties upon the
supersedeas bond were relieved from all liability to plaintiff in

CRANE v. BUCKLEY.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

error. Powers v. Crane, 67 California, 65; Powers v. Chabot,
93 California, 263; McCallion v. Hibernia S. & L. S., 98 California, 442; Chase v. Ries, 10 California, 518; Hawes v. Sternheim, 57 Ill. App. 126; Heinlen v. Beans, 73 California, 340;
Daggett v. Mensch, 141 Illinois, 396; Poppenhausen v. Selley
et al., 41 Barb. 450; Perkins v. Spaulding, 3 T. B. Mon. (Ky.),
12; Kibble v. Butler, 28 Mississippi, 587.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action upon a supersedeas bond, brought by
the plaintiff in error, Henry A. Crane, against defendants in
error, Cornelius F. Buckley as principal, and Rudolph Spreckles
and Timothy Hopkins as sureties.
The bond was given in an action brought by Crane against
Buckley in the Superior Court of Tulare County, California,
removed to the United States Circuit Court of the Southern
District of California.
Crane brought suit to foreclose a contract for the sale of
certain lands to Buckley and for the recovery of possession
thereof. Upon answer and cross-bill Buckley made the defense that the sale was procured by false and fraudulent statements and misrepresentations. The court found for complainant Crane; that the charges of fraud were not sustained;
that the rights, interests and claims of Buckley in and to the
property should be foreclosed, subject to the equitable privilege
that if Buckley should pay to Crane prior to January 1, 1899,
the unpaid portion of the purchase price and the interest
thereon, with taxes and costs, Crane should convey to Buckley
all the said real estate pursuant to the agreement of purchase,
and it was provided in said decree:
"And unless said respondent shall place on file herein some
sufficient and satisfactory evidence that he has paid, or has
tendered, and is able, ready and willing to pay, to said complainant, Henry A. Crane, the amounts of money hereinbefore
provided to be paid for the purchase of said property, on or

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S

before the first day of January, A. D. 1899, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed that the clerk of this court do, on request
of said complainant, Henry A. Crane, or of his counsel, issue a
suitable and sufficient order or writ to the marshal of this
court, and under the seal thereof to remove said respondent,
Cornelius F. Buckley, from the possession, use and occupation
of said real property, water ditches, water rights and rights of
way, and to place complainant, Henry A. Crane, or his legal
representatives, in the exclusive possession, use and occupation thereof."
This decree was entered on November 16, 1898; on December 16, 1898, Buckley appealed from the decree to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and a supersedeas bond in the sum of $8,000,
being the one in suit, was given. This bond is as follows:
"Whereas, the said respondent and cross complainant is
desirous of staying the execution of the said judgment so appealed from in so far as it relates to the possession of the land
and premises involved therein, and is desirous of staying the
execution of said judgment or decree, so appealed from, in so
far as it relates to the costs awarded to complainant therein:
"Now, the condition of the above obligation is such that if
the said C. F. Buckley shall prosecute his appeal to effect, and
shall answer all damages and costs that have been and shall
be awarded against him, if he fails to make his appeal good,
and if he shall answer all damages that shall accrue to the said
respondent by reason of the value of the use and occupation
of the land and premises from the time 6f said appeal until the
delivery of possession thereof to said Henry A. Crane, and for
all waste committed thereon, then the above obligation to be
void, else to remain in full force and effect."
October 2, 1899, the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the
decree. On October 19, 1899, Buckley having filed a petition
for rehearing as to a part of the judgment gi-'en October 2,
1899, or for such modification thereof as would allow him until
November 1, 1899, within which to make the payments required, the Circuit Court of Appeals found:

CRANE v. BUCKLEY.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"The record does show that the appellant made large payments under the contract, and that he has made other large
expenditures in the improvements of the property, which was
the subject of the contract. It is also true that the sums
remaining due from the appellant under the contract were
large. These payments, the decree of the court below, which
was entered on the sixteenth day of November, 1898, required
to be made prior to January 1, 1899, in order that the rights
and interests of the appellant in the property be saved, which
were by the decrees otherwise forever foreclosed and ended.
Under the circumstances appearing in the record this court
is of the opinion that it is equitable and just to allow the appellant until the first day of November, 1899, within which
to make the payments required by the decree from which the
appeal is taken; and, accordingly, it is ordered that the judgment of this court on the second day of Ocober, 1899, be, and
hereby is, so modified as to read: 'Cause remanded to the court
below, with directions to substitute for the first clay of January, 1899, the first day of November, 1899, within which the
payments therein provided for are permitted to be made, and,
as so modified, the decree is affirmed.' " 97 Fed. Rep. 980.
Upon mandate from the Circuit Court of Appeals, this
modification was entered in the Circuit Court.
Possession of the property was not in fact delivered till
November 4, 1899. After the proceedings above recited action
was commenced on the bond to recover $8,000, the penalty
thereof, for the alleged value of the use and occupation of the
premises by Buckley, between January 1 and November 1,
1899, and waste.
On the first trial of the case in the Circuit Court a verdict
of $5,000 was rendered against the present defendant in error,
afterwards reduced to $3,000.
This judgment was reversed upon writ of error to the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 123 Fed. Rep. 29.
Upon a subsequent trial of the case, upon instructions following the ruling of the Circuit Court of Appeals, a verdict and

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

judgment were rendered in favor of the defendant in error.
Another writ of error being taken to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, this judgment was affirmed, and the plaintiff in error
brought the case here.
The question in this case as presented here is briefly this:
Can the plaintiff in error recover upon the supersedeas bond
for the value of the use and occupation of the premises in
question from January 1, 1899, to November 1, 1899? This
was the period for which the Circuit Court of Appeals, upon
the application for rehearing, modified the decree so far as
to extend the right of Buckley, one of the defendants in error,
and the principal in the bond, to remain in possession of the
premises, postponing the foreclosure of his rights therein until
the end of the period named in the extension. The bond was
given under cover of section 1000 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States, which provides:
"Every justice or judge signing a citation on any writ of
error shall, except in cases brought up by the United States or
by direction of any department of the Government, take good
and sufficient security that the plaintiff in error or the appellant
shall prosecute his writ or appeal to effect, and, if he fail to
make his plea good, shall answer by damages and costs where
the writ is a supersedeas and stays execution, or the costs only
where it is not a supersedeas as aforesaid."
The object and purpose of this section and the bond given
in pursuance thereof is to indemnify the party prevailing in
the original suit against loss in the respects stated in the bond,
by reason of an ineffectual attempt to reverse the holding of
the trial court. The successful party in this case, the plaintiff,
could not have the decree executed, so far as the possession of
the property was concerned, after the supersedeas bond was
given, and the purpose of that instrument was to secure him
from loss during the time and to the extent that his hand was
stayed from action. In order to keep the obligation of the
bond it was necessary that the plaintiff in error should substantially reverse the judgment or decree in the respects.in

CRANE v. BUCKLEY.
2031U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which the bond was indemnity. As was said by Mr. Chief
Justice Waite, in Gay v. Parpart, 101 U. S. 391, 392:
"If, on final disposition of a writ of error or appeal, the judgment or tlecree brought under review is not substantially
reversed, it is affirmed and the writ of error or appeal has not
been prosecuted with effect."
It is elementary that the obligation of sureties upon bonds
in strictissimi juris, and not to be extended by implication or
enlarged construction of the terms of the contract entered into.
What then was the attitude of the case when this appeal bond
was given? The action had been brought to foreclose a contract of purchase. The defense had proved unavailing.: The
decree had provided that unless Buckley made the payments
required by January 1, 1899, his right and interest in the property should be 'forever foreclosed, and a writ should issue to
put the plaintiff in possession of the property.
From this decree Buckley appealed, and in order to prevent
its execution gave the bond in suit, which recites that he is
desirous of staying the execution, of the judgment appealed
from in so far as it relates to the possession of the lands and
premises involved, and as to costs, which are not now in con-,
troversy. Then comes the condition of the obligation, that
the appellant shall prosecute his appeal to effect, and the undertaking that if he fails to make his appeal good he shall answer
in damages which shall accrue by reason of the value of the
use and occupation of the premiseg until the delivery of the
possession thereof, and for waste committed thereon. The
effect of this bond was to permit Buckley to remain in possession and to require himto prosecute his appeal to effect; in
default of which he and his sureties may be subjected to liability upon the bond.
What is meant by prosecuting his- appeal to effect? It is
an expression substantially equivalent to prosecuting his appeal
with success; to make substantial and prevailing his attempt
to reverse the decree or judgment awarded against him.
It is to be remembered that there is not involved in this suit

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

any right to recover for use and 'occupation other than that
between the dates of January 1, 1899, and November 1, 1899.
This is the very time during which, by the modified decree
entered by virtue of the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
the foreclosure of the contract was postponed and the defendant in error, Buckley, permitted to remain in possession of the
premises.
As we have said, the appeal bond was to secure the plaintiff
from loss in the use and possession of the premises, unless
Buckley prosecuted his appeal to effect. It is manifest that
the effect of the decree in the Circuit Court of Appeals. was to
extend the time of rightful possession for the period covered
in this suit. This right of possession, withheld from the plaintiff in error by the extension awarded in the Court of Appeals,
was the essence of the thing for which the plaintiff in error
was indemnified by the terms of the obligation. We cannot
think it makes any legal difference in the liability of the sureties
upon the bond that Buckley did not pay the balance of the
purchase money within the time of the extension. The effect
of the decree was to extend the right of possession and to
prevent a foreclosure of his rights after January 1, 1899, until
the date named, November 1, 1899.
This extended right of possession and postponement of foreclosure to November 1, 1899, Buckley gained by the appeal,
which, in our view, he thus prosecuted to effect, or what, is
another way of saying the same thing, to a successful issue
upon the very thing-the wrongful possession of the property
-against which the plaintiff in error was indemnified by the
terms of the obligation sued upon. In this view of the case
the judgmert of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

