OCTOBER TERM, 1906..
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

same subject. And, for like reasons, my brother Day is also
of the opinion that the provision is void which exacts an insertion in a note given for the sale of a patent right of the fact
that it was given for such sale. This latter provision; in my
opinion, the State had the power to make as a reasonable police
.,regulation not repugnant to the authority as to patents delegated to Congress by the Constitution or the legislation which
Congress has enacted in furtherance thereof.

JOHN WOODS & SONS v. CARL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF AR KANSAS.
No. 102.

Submitted November 7, 1006.-Decided December 3, 1906.

Allen v. Riley, ante p. 347 followed as to power of a State to require one
.selling patent rights to record the letters patent and applied to a law of
Arkansas, which also makes a note void if given for a patent right, if the
note does not show on its face for what it was given.
75 Arkansas, 328, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion. '

Mr. Homer C. Mechem and Mr. Edwin Mechem. for plaintiff
inerror.
Mr. John Fletcher and Mr. W. C. Ratcliffe for defendant in
error,
MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the proper court of the State
of Arkansas by the plaintiffs in error to recover the amount
of a promissory note, which was given by the defendant in
error on the sale to him of a patented machine and of the
right to the. patent in the State of Arkansas. Before the

JOHN WOODS & SONS v. CARL.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

maturity of the note it was indorsed by the payee and transferred to plaintiffs in error. The note was not executed as
provided for by the statute of that State relating to the sale
of rights under a patent. Act of April 23, 1891, Kirby's Dig.,
sec. 513. The section reads as follows:
"SEc. 513. Any vendor of any patented machine, implement, substance, or instrument of any kind or character whatsoever, when the said. vendor of the same effects the sale of the
same to any citizen of this State on a credit, and takes any
character of negotiable instrument, in payment of the same,
the said negotiable instrument shall be executed on a printed
form, and show upon its face that it was executed in consideration of a patented machine, implement, substance or instrument, as the case may be, and no person shall be considered
an innocent holder of the same, though he may have given
value for the same before maturity, and the maker thereof
may make defense to the collection of the same in the hands
of any holder of said negotiable instrument, and all such notes
not showing on their face for what they were given. shall be
absolutely void."
The defendant set up the violation of the statute as a defense. The verdict was for the defendant, and the judgment
entered thereon having been affirmed by the Supreme Court,
the plaintiffs have brought the case here by writ of error.
The sole question involved is the validity of the statute.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Arkansas is reported in
75 Arkansas, 328. See also Wyatt v. Wallace, 67 Arkansas,
575; State v. Cook, 107 Tennessee, 499. This case is governed by the immediately preceding one, although the statute
of Arkansas renders the note void if given for a patent right
if the note does not show on its face for what it was given.
The difference is not so material as to call for a different decision. The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

dissents.

