OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

203 U. S.

ALABAMA AND VICKSBURG RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MISSISSIPPI RAILROAD COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 97!

Argued November 13, 14, 1906.-Decided December 17, 1906.

A State may insist upon equality of rates, and although a State may not
compel a railroad company to do business at a loss, and even though the
company may, against the power of the State, establish rates which
afford reasonable 'compensation, if it voluntarily establishes local rates
for some shippers-even though under the guise of a rebilling rite on
interstate shipments-it cannot resist the power of the State to enforce
the same rate for all shippers-or claim that the rate so fixed by the
commission acting under authority of the State deprives it of its property without due process of law.
86 Mississippi, 667, affirmed.

ON

November 16, 1903, the Railroad Commission of Miss-

issippi, by written order, directed the Alabama and Vicksburg
Railway Company, hereinafter called the Vicksburg company, to put into effect, over its line of road from Vicksburg
to Meridian, a flat rate of 3 cents per 100 pounds on grain
and grain products. December 3, 1903, an application was
made by the railway company to the chancellor of the Fifth
Chancery District of the State to restrain the enforcement of
this order. July 11, 1904, a temporary injunction issued on
the filing of the bill was dissolved and the bill dismissed. On
appeal to the Supreme Court of the State this decree of the
chancellor was affirmed (86 Mississippi, 667), and thereupon
this writ of error was sued out.
Mr. Harry H. Hall for plaintiff in error:
The application for the flat rate of three and one-half cents
was made, and its enforcement ordered, solely for the purpose
of beating down the fair interstate grain tariff of the railroads
operating between Meridian and St. Louis.

ALABAMA &c. RY. v. MISSISSIPPI R. R. COMM. 497
203 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The acceptance, whether voluntary or involuntary, of a
"rebilling" or "proportionate" interstate rate, is'not the
acceptance of the same rate as applied to local traffic; and,
even though an unremunerative rate were voluntarily adopted
by a carrier, such adoption would not justify its imposition
by a railroad commission. Wabash case, 118 U. S. 557, 576;
Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375.; Import Rate case,
162 U. S. 197; Parsons v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 167 U. S.
447; L. S. & M. S. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684-697; 31. & S. L.
Ry. Co. v. Minn. R. R. Comm., 186 U. S. 268.
The rate of three and one-half cents is less than the actual
cost of hauling. For a State, under pretense of regulating
tariffs, to require a railroad company to carry freight at a loss,
would be a taking of private property for public use without
compensation and without due process of law. Minneapolis
&c. R. R. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167; Chicago &c. R. R.
Co. v. Becker, 35 Fed. Rep. 883; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
466; Nor. Pac. R. v. Keyes, 91 Fed. Rep. 47; South Pac. R.
Co. v. Railroad Com., 78 Fed. Rep. 236; Metropolitan Trust
Co. v. Houston &c. R. Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 683; Cin. &c. R. Co.
v. Dey, 35 Fed. Rep. 866; St. Louis &c. R. Co. v. Gill,, 156
U. S. 649; Reagan V. Farmers Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362.
To enforce this flat rate of three and one-half cents would
be denying to appellant the equal protection of the law.
Cotting v. Godard, 183 U. S. 79; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. McChord,
103 Fed. Rep. 217.
The order of the Mississippi Railroad Commission directly
interferes with interstate commerce. G.,C. & S. F. R. Co. v.
Hefley, 158 U. S. 98; L. & N. 1?. R. Co. v. Eubank, 184 U. S.
27; Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. Keyes, 91 Fed. r.ep. 47.
Mr. Hannis Taylor and Mr. C. H. Alexander, with whom
Mr. Monroe McClurg was on the brief, for defendant in error:
A State has power to regulate traffic carried on within its
limits, not strictly interstate. Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v.
Charleston, 153 U. S. 692, A railroad corporation largely enVOL. cci-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

203 U. S.

gaged in interstate commerce is-amenaoie to state regulation
and taxation as to any of its service which is wholly performed
within the Stae, and not as a part-of interstate service. Penna.
R. R.Co. v. hKni~i., 192 U. S. 21; Pullnan Co. v. Adams, 189
U. S.420; Kchrcr v. Stewart, 197 U. S. 67.
The Supreme Court of Mississippi therefore decreed that the
business in question was really intrastate business, and that
the order in qu(,stion made by the Railroad Commission of that
State related to a matter within its exclusive jurisdiction.
The decree of tIe lower court was confined to a single subjectmatter wholly within the control of the State of Mississippi
and not subject to any of the clauses of the Federal Constitution which I lie ,1,iintiff in error has invoked.
Upon a wxrit ,ferror this court has no right to review the
decision bejow, upon the ground that the finding was against
the evidence or the weight of the evidence. Upon a writ of
error, this court cannot review a decision of a question of fact,
even where, by the !,al practice of the State, the law and the
facts are tried togther by the judge without a jury. Dower
v. Richards, 151 U. S. (358; Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S.188; 6 Ency.
of Pl. & Pr. 996.
. Even if the commerce in question was interstate, the order
of the Railroad Commission prohibiting a discrimination within
the State was not illegal.
Plaintiff has failed to overcome the burden which the law
puts upon it to establish the fact that the commerce in question is not wholly intrastate. Even if it were otherwise, even
if it were clear that the commerce in question was interstate,
the order in question which simply undertakes, not to impose
a burden, but to remove an unlawful discrimination, is not
illegal. Brannon on the Fourteenth Amendment; Railroad
Co. v. Fuller, 17 Wall. 560; Denver R. R. v. Atchison Co.,
I5 Fed. Rep. 650; Providence Co. v. Providence, 15 R. I. 303;
Shipper v. Penna. R. R. Co., 47 Pa. St. 338; West. Un. Tel.
Co. v. James, 162 U. S.650.
The proof in the record does not uphold the contention that

ALABAMA &c. RY. v. MISSISSIPPI R. R. COMM. 499
203 U.

.

Opinion of the Court.

the order in question has had the effect of depriving plaintiff
of its property without due process of law, or has deprived
it of the equal protection of the law,
When a commission and the officers of a railroad company
differ as to the unreasonableness of a rate and there is.-room
for intelligent difference of opinion, the courts will not interfere but will leave it to the test of experience. 23 Am. &
Eng. Ency. of Law, 657, citing 29 Florida, 617; 25 Florida,
310.
The presumption of reasonableness is not overcome except
by proof of expense,, and receipts during an adequate period.
76 Fed. Rep. 186..
Evidence that the 'rates are lower than that of other points
or on other roads is not competent. Conditions may be
different. Interstale Cow??. Com. v. Nashville &c. fR. R. Co.,
120 Fed. Rep. 934.
The case must be a clear one to warrant interfering with
rate fixed by the commission. Chicago v. Tompkins, supra.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the coui't.

The facts in this case are few. The company made what
it.called a "rebilling rate" of 3j cents per 100 pounds on
grain and grain products shipped from Vicksburg to Meridian,
that rate, however, being applicable only in case of shipments
over the Vicksburg, Shreveport & Pacific Railroad, hereinafter called the Shreveport road. Instead of being enforced
as solely a rebilling rate, the Vicksburg merchant who received
a carload of grain or grain products over the Shreveport road
was permitted to either forward it over the plaintiff's road to
Meridian, or at any time within ninety days in lieu thereof
send a similar carload, no matter whence received, from Vicksburg. to Meridian at the same rate. It was in consequence of
this effort on 'the part of the plaintiff to favor shippers who
brought grain to Vicksburg over 'the' Shreveport road that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

Railroad. Commission made the order declaring that all grain
products shipped from Vicksburg to Meridian should be at
the same rate, 3j cents per 100 pounds. The order of the
commissioh merely meant this: If a Vicksburg merchant who
received a carload of grain over the Shreveport road was
permitted by the railway company to ship over the Vicksburg
road to Meridian any other carload at 3- cents per 100 pounds,
every other merchant in Vicksburg should be permitted to
ship at the same rate, although he had had no dealings with
the Shreveport company. It is unnecessary to inquire whether
the order could be sustained if it appeared that the plaintiff
received only 34 cents as its share of a total rate on through
shipments to Meridian from the Northwest by the Shreveport
road; for here, under the guise of a rebilling rate, the Vicksburg merchant who dealt with this Western road was given
a rate of 34 per cent on any grain that he might see fit to ship
to Meridian. While it may be true that a local railway's
share of an interstate rate may not be a legitimate basis upon
which a state railroad commission can establish and enforce
a purely local rate, yet whenever, under the guise or pretense
of a rebilling rate, some merchants are given a low local rate
the commission is justified in making that rate the rate for
all. It is not b6und to inquire whether it furnishes adequate
return to the railway company, for the State may insist upon
equality, to be enforced under the same conditions against all
who perform a public or quasi-public service. When voluntarily the Vicksburg company established a local rate of
3. per cent from Vicksburg to Meridian for those who had
within 90 days made a shipment over the Shreveport road,
it estopped itself from complaining of an order making that
rate applicable to all shipments, no matter whence they arose,
and in favor of all merchants, whether those transporting
over the Shreveport road or not.
We are not unaware of our decision in Texas & Pacific Railway v. Interstate Commerce Comission, 162 U. S. 197, in
which, on review of the Interstate Commerce Act, we held that

ALABAMA &c. RY. v. MISSISSIPPI R. R. COMM. 501
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a mere inequality of rate was not always proof -of undue discrimination, but we were passing upon an act of Congress
and seeking to ascertain its intent and scope. There was no
intimation that it was not within the power of Congress to
prescribe an absolute equality of rate. In the present case
we are not construing an act of the State of Mississippi or
passing upon the powers which by it are given to the state
railroad commission. Those matters are settled by the decision of the Supreme Court of the State, and the question
we have to consider is the power of the State to enforce an
equality of local rates as between all parties shipping for the
same distance over the same road. That a State has such
power cannot be doubted, and it cannot be thwarted by any
action of a railroad company. which does not involve an actual
interstate shipment, although done with a view of promoting
the business interests of the company. Even if a State may
not compel a railroad company to do business at a loss and
conceding that a railroad company may insist, as against the
power of the State, upon the right to establish such rates as
will afford reasonable compensation for the services rendered,
yet when it voluntarily establishes local rates for some shippers it cannot resist the power of the State to enforce the same
rates for all. The State may insist upon equality as between
all its citizens, and that equality cannot be defeated in riespect
to any local shipments by arrangements made with or to
favor outside companies.
We see no error in the ruling of the Supreme Court of the
State of Mississippi, and its judgment is
Affirmed.

