OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

203 U. S.

FISHER, ON BEHALF OF BARCELON, v. BAKER
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No, 214. Argued October 9,10.-Decided December 3, 1906.
When an application on habeas corpus is denied because the writ had been
suspended, and thereafter, and before appeal taken is allowed, the
suspension is revoked, the question of power of the authorities to suspend
the writ becomes a moot one not calling for determination by this court.
A proceeding in habeas corpus is a civil, and not a criminal, proceeding,
and as final orders of Circuit or District Courts of the United States
in such a proceeding can o ly be reviewed in this court by appeal, under
§ 10 of the Act of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat., 1369, a final order 'of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands in habeas corpus is governed by
the same rules and can only be reviewed by appeal and not by writ of error.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederic.R. Coudert, with whom Mr. Howard Thayer
Kingsbury was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
It was proper to determine this proceeding on the merits
upon the return of' the order, to show cause. Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, at 653; Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2, at
110. Under the Philippine Civil Government Act, the power
of the Governor and Commission to suspend the privilege of
the writ of habeas corpus is limited to cases in which "rebellion, insurrection, or invasion" actuallyexists. The language
of the act is similar to that of the Constitution, and should be
construed with reference thereto. Civil Gov't Act, sec. 5;
U. S. Const. Art. 1, sec. 9; Doe. -Hist. U. S. Const., vol. III,
pp. 565, 62S-726, vol. IV, pp. 824-825. History shows that
a discretionary power of, suspension is not a safeguard of the
State, but an engine of tyranny. May's Const. History of
England, vol. 2, pp. 252-259. The only suspensions in the
United States have been authorized by Congress in particular

FISHER v. BAKER.
203 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

emergencies. Merryman's case, 17 Fed. Cas. No. 9487; 12 U. S.
Stat. 755; 17 U. S. Stat. 13; Burgess on "Reconstruction and
the Constitution," pp. 257-261.
The existence of a state of "rebellion, insurrection, or invasion" is a question of fact to be judicially determined by
the courts. The test is the same as the -test of peace or war;
that is, whether the courts are open and •performing their
functions unhindered. Milligan Case, 4 Wall. 2, 121, 127;
Dicey "The Law of the Constitution," 6th ed., p. 509; Pollock,
"What is Martial Law," Law Quarterly Review, vol. 18, p.
152.
In re Boyle, 45 L. R. A. 832, is not applicable. Idaho
Constitution, Art. I, sec. 5, Art., IV, sec. 4, Penal Code, sees.
5164, 5166. If the suspending authority is the sole judge of
the facts, then the power is in effect discretionary and unlimited. The suspension of the writ is not analogous to executive
acts to be performed by an officer acting within his usual sphere,
but is the one instance in which the executive or legislative
department is allowed to interfere with the usual processes of
the judicial department.
It is only in questions of foreign war or peace that the
decision of the political department is conclusive. Aliter of.
domestic war or insurrection. Fourteen Diamond Rings v.
United States, 183 U. S. 176; Lincoln v. United States, 197
U.. S. 419.
There was no "rebellion, insurrection, or invasion" in the
Province of Batangas at the time of the application herein.
Philippine Commission Report, 1905, Part I, pp. 56, 58, 173,
216; Part 3, pp. 8, 133. "Insurrection" is necessarily politi.
cal; ladronism is mere common law crime (Acts of Philippine
Commission, Nos. 518, 1121, vol. 9, p. 235; vol. 15, p. 99).
The Governments of the United States and of the Philippine
Islands had expressly recognized the existence of peace (Phil.
Comm. Report, 1905, vol. I, pp. 26, 801).
The prisoner is restrained of his liberty without due process
of law, contrary to. the Constitution and the Philippine Civil

OCTOBER TERM!, 1906.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

203 U. S.

Government Act (See. 5). He is in custody, and this court
can relieve him.
Under the Constitution, the power to suspend the privilege
of the writ of habeas corpus rests in Congress, and cannot be
delegated to the Philippine Governor and Commission. This
constitutional provision is applicable to the Philippines, and
hence is controlling. Rassmussen v. United States, 197 U. S.
516; Dorr v. United States,. 195 U. S. 138. The attempted
inclusion of "insurrection," as a ground of suspension, is unconstitutional and void. "Insurrection" is not synonymous
with rebellion. Birkheimer, Military Gov'm't and Martial
Law, p. 485, quoting Lieber's Code.
Habeas Corpus, though procedural in form, is a substantive
right of the most sacred character. It is the constitutional
guarantee of the liberty of the individual.
The Solicitor General for defendant in error:
The writ must be dismissed for lack of jurisdiction. Petitioner's remedy was by appeal and not by writ of error. Sec.
10 of the Act of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat., 691, 695, provides that
final judgments of the Supreme Court of the Philippines may
be reviewed by the Supreme Court of the United States in the
same manner and under the same regulations as the final
judgments of the Circuit Courts of the United States. It is
well settled that an order of a Circuit or District Court of the
United States upon application for habeas corpus is reviewable
only by appeal. In re Morrissey, 137 U. S.157; Rice v. Ames,
180 U. S. 371, and cases cited. Habeas corpus is a civil
and not a criminal proceeding, although instituted to arrest a
criminal prosecution. Ex parte Tom Tong, 108 U. S.556;
Farnsworth v. Montana, 129 U. S. 104; Cross v. Burke, 146
U. S.82.
The proclamation of the Philippine Governor suspending
the writ was revoked October 19, 1905. If the application for
habeas corpus had been renewed after that date, or if the writ
had been granted and then dismissed, that determination

FISHER v. BAKER.
203 U. S.

Argument for Iefendant in Error.

would necessarily have proceeded on other grounds than the
suspension of the writ. There is, therefore, a mere moot question here, which the court'will decline to consider under well
settled precedents. California.v. San Pablo & Tulare R. R.,
149 U. S. 308, Mills v. Green, 159 U. S. 651; Kimball v. Kimball,
174 U. S.158; Codlin v. Kohlhausen, 181 U. S. 151.
The record contains significant evidence of the necessity
for the Governor's action in suspending the writ. The intent
of sec. 5, Act of July 1, 1902, was to commit to the executive
the necessary determination of the fact that an exigency exists requiring suspension. Congress gave the power specifically, not leaving it to the doubtful question whether or not
the provision of the Constitution, Art. I, sec. 9, ci. 2, applies to
the Philippines. The, precise limitation of the Constitution
does not control. Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 1.00, 117;
Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 279, and see Dorr v. United
States, 195 U. S. 138. It is well settled that the executive
determination in kindred matters is beyond judicial review.
Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19; Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1, 42,
45; Pomeroy's Constitutional Law, sec. 476; Tucker on the
Constitution, p. 581. There is no illegal delegation of legislative power. In re Oliver, 17 Wisconsin, 703; Railroad v.
Commissioners, 1 Ohio St. 88; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649;
Locke's Appeal, 72 Pa. St. 491; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192
U. S. 470; Slack v. Railroad, 13 B. Mon. 1, 23, 24; Blanding
v. Burr, 13 California, 343, 357; Moers v. City of Reading, 21
Pa. St. 183, 202; Cooley, Const. Lira., 6th ed., pp. 137, 138,
142; Dorr v. United States, 195 U. S.138, 143, 149, 153.
As to the Civil War situation. The question of a broad and
inherent power in the executive alone was before the courts in
connection with President Lincoln's orders and pioclarnations
suspending the writ of habeas corpus during the Civil War,
and it is conceded that-the weight of authority is that under
the Constitution the power to suspend the writ or. to authorize
its suspension belongs to Congress and not to the President.
Ex parte Merryman, Taney, 1246; Ex parte Benedict, Fed. Cas.
VOL. cci-'-i12

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

No. 1292; McCall v. McDowell, 1 Abb. 212; Ex parte Field,
5 Blatchf. 63; In re Kemp, 16 Wisconsin, 359; In re Oliver,
17 Wisconsin, 703. But here the case is entirely different.
The executive is not assuming to act alone, but under the specific authority of Congress, and the question of an inherent
power in the executive is not involved. Ex parte Milligan,
4 Wall. 2, is not against our contentions. The only point
adjudged there was that a resident of a loyal State, where the
Federal courts were meeting and peacefully transacting their
business, could not constitutionally be -tried and punished by
a military commission; that the habeas corpus act of 1863
forbade this and gave the Circuit Court complete jurisdiction,
and that, therefore, the writ was properly issued. As to later
cases, see the constitution of Idaho, art. I, sec. 5; In re Boyle,
45 L. R. A. 832; Ex parte Moore, 64 N. C. 802.
It has been declared and held that the President may not
suspend the privileges of the writ of habeas corpus without the
authority of an act of Congress. It has been decided that,
so authorized, he may determine at his discretion whether
the public safety requires suspension and suspend the writ
accordingly. It has not been decided that, so authorized, he
may not determine whether the exigency of invasion or rebellion has arisen. There can be no doubt of the intent of the
act for the Philippines, and it is not subject to the precise
limitations of the constitutional provision.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
Application for the writ of habeas corpus was made to the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands August 2, 1905, on
behalf of one Bareclon, seeking to be discharged from alleged
illegal detention in the province of Batangas. An order to
show cause was granted, 'eturnable August 4, to which return
was made, the cause heard and the application denied on the
ground that the writ of habeas corpus had been suspended and

FISHER' v. BAKER.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

-that the action of the Philippine authorities in that regard was
not open to judicial review.
. Petition for the allowance of a writ of error from this court,
dated October 19, and service of copy thereof acknowledged
by respondents the same day, was filed January.3, 1906, and
the writ of error thereupon allowed and issued on that day.
The second clause of sec. '9 of art. I of the Constitution
of the United States provides: "The privilege of the writ of
habeas corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in cases of
rebellion or invasion the public safety may require it."
The seventh paragraph of sec. 5 of the act of Congress of
July 1, 1902, 32 Stat., c. 1369, pp. 691, 692, reads: "That the
privilege of the writ of habcas corpus shall not be suspended,
unless when in cases of rebellion, insurrection, or invasion the
public safety may require it, in either of which events the same
may be suspended by the President, or by the Governor, with
the approval of the Philippine Commission, wherever during
such period the necessity for such suspension shall exist."
The record discloses that on January 31, 1905, the Philippine
Commission adopted the following resolution:
"Whereas certain organized bands of ladrones exist in the
provinces of Cavite and-Batangas who are levying forced contributions upon the people, who frequently require them under
compulsion to join their bands, and who-kill or maim in the
most barbarous manner those who fail -to respond to their
unlawful demands and are therefore terrifying the law-abiding
and inoffensive people of those provinces; and
"Whereas these bands have in several instances attacked
police and constabulary detachments and are in open insurrection against the constituted authorities; and
"Whereas it is believed that these bands have- numerous
agents and confederates living within the municipalities of
the said provinces; and
"Whereas, because of the foregoing conditions, there exists
a state of insecurity and terrorism among the people which
makes it-impossible in the ordinary way to conduct preliminary

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

investigations before justices of the peace and other judicial

officers:
"Now, therefore, be it resolved, That, the public safety requiring it, the Civil Governor is hereby authorized and requested to su.spend the writ of habeas corpus in the provinces
of Cavite and Batangas."
Whereupon, on the same day, the Civil Governor issued
the followNing proclamation:
"Whereas certain organized bands of ladrones exist in the
provinces of Cavite and Batangas who are levying forced
contributions upon the people, who frequently require them
under compulsion to join their bands, and who kill or maim
in the most barbarous manner those who fail to respond to
their unlawful demnds and are therefore terrifying the lawabiding and inoffensive people of those provinces; and
"Whereas these bands have in several instances attacked
police and constabulary detachments and are in open insurrection against the constituted authorities, and it is believed
that the said bands have numerous agents and confederates
living within the municipalities of the said provinces; and
"Whereas, because of the foregoing conditions,
there exists
a state of insecurity and terrorism among the people which
makes it impossible in the ordinary way to conduct preliminary
investigations before justices of the peace. and other judicial
officers:
"In the interest of the public safety, it is hereby ordered
that the writ of habeas corpus is from this date suspended in
the provinces of Cavite and Batangas."
But we must take notice of the fact that on October 19, 1905,
the Civil Governor issued a proclamation revoking that of
January 31, 1905, as follows:
"Whereas the ladrone bands which up to a recent date
infested the provinces of Cavite and Batangas have been
practically destroyed and the members thereof killed or captured or have surrendered, so that the necessity for the continuance of the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus in the

FISHER v. BAKER.
203 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

aforesaid provinces which was made necessary by the conditions therein prevailing on the thirty-first day of January last
no longer exists:
"Now, therefore; I, Luke E, Wright, Governor General of
the Philippine Islands, being duly authorized and empowered
thereto by the Philippine Commission, do hereby proclaim
the revocation of the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus
in the provinces of Cavite and Batangas which was made by
me on the thirty-first day of January last."
This proclamation wiped out the basis of the decision sought
to be reviewed or the day when the copy of the petition for
writ of error was served on opposing counsel, and more than
two months before the writ of error was issued. The question
ruled by the court below and solely argued before us became
in effect a moot question, not calling for determination here.
Mills v. Green, 159 U. S. 651.
But the disposition of this writ of error must be rested on
another ground.
The proceeding is in habeas corpus, and is a civil and not a
criminal proceeding. Cross v. Burke, 146 U. S. 82, 88. See.
10 of. the Philippine Act of July 1, 1902; 32 Stat. c. 1369, pp.
691, 695,. provides:
"That the Supreme Court of the United States shall have
jurisdiction to review, revise, reverse, modify, or affirm the final
judgments and decrees of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands in all actions, cases, causes, and proceedings now pending therein or hereafter determined thereby in which the
Constitution or any statute, treaty, title, right, or privilege
of the United States is involved, or in causes in which the value
in controversy exceeds twenty-five thousand dollars, or in
which the title or possession of real estate exceeding in value
the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, to be ascertained
by the oath of either party or of other competent witnesses,
is involved or brought in question; and such final judgments
or decrees may and can be reviewed, revised, reversed, modified, or ,affirmed by said Supreme Court of the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1906.
Opinion of the Court.

203 U. S.

on appeal or writ of error by the party aggrieved, in the same
manner, under the same regulations, and by the same procedure, as far as applicable, as the final judgments and decrees
of the Circuit Courts of the United States."
Final orders of the Circuit Courts or District Courts of the
United States in habeas corpus can only be reviewed by appeal
and not by writ of error. In re Morrisey, 137 U. S. 157, 158;
Rice v. Amnes, 180 U. S.371, 373. In the latter case the court
said:
"Motion is made to dismiss the appeal upon the ground
that there is no provision of law allowing an appeal in this
class of cases. Prior to the Court of Appeals Act of 1891,
provision was made for an appeal to the Circuit Court in habeas
corpus cases 'from the final decision of any court, justice or
judge inferior to the Circuit Court,' Rev. Stat. see. 763; and
from the final decision of such Circuit Court an, appeal might
be taken to this court. Rev. Stat. iee. 764, as amended
March 3, 1885, 'c. 353, 23 Stat. 437.
"The law remained in this condition until the Court of Appeals Act of March, 1891, was passed, the fifth section of which
permits an appeal directly from the District Court to this court
'in any case in which the constitutionality of any law of the
United States, or the validity or construction of any treaty
made under its authority, is drawn in question.' In this
connection the appellee insists that an appeal will not lie,
but that a writ of error is the proper remedy. In support of
this we are cited to the case of Bucklin v. United States, 159
U. S. 680, in which the appellant was convicted of the crime
of perjury, and sought a review of the judgment against him
by an appeal, which we held must be dismissed, upon the
ground that criminal cases were reviewable here only by writ
of error. Obviously that case has no application to this,
since under'the prior sections of the Revised Statutes, above
cited, which are taken from the act of 1842, an appeal was
allowed in habeas corpus cases. The observation made in
the fucklin case that 'there was no purpose by that act to

ST. MARY'S PETROLEUM CO. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
203 U. S.

183

Statement .f the Case.

abolish the general distinction, at common law, between an
appeal and a writ of error,' may be supplemented by saying
that it was no purpose of the act of 1891 to change the forms
of remedies theretofore pursued. In re Lennon, 150 U. S. 393;
Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651; Gonzales v. Cunningham,
164 U. S. 612."
Writ of error dismissed.

ST. :IARY'S FRANCO-AMERICAN PETROLEUM COMPANY v. WEST VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 98. Submitted November 5. 1906.-Decided December 3, 1906.
A State has power to regulate its own creations and, a fortiori, foreign corporations permitted to transact business within its borders. The act of West
Virginia, putting all non-resident domestic corporations having. their
places of business and works outside the State, and all foreign corporations
coming into the State, on the same footing in respect to service of process,
and making the state auditor their attorney in fact to accept process, is a
reasonable classification and not unconstitutional as denying equal protection of the laws,: because that provision does not apply to all corporations; nor does it deprive such corporations, without due process of law, of
their liberty of contract; nor does the requirement that they pay such
auditor an annual fee of ten dollars for services as such attorney amount to
a taking of property without due process of law.

THis is a writ of error to review a judgment of the Supreme

Court of Appeals of West Virginia awarding a peremptory
writ of mandamus, commanding the St. Mary's Franco-American Petroleum Company, by power of attorney, duly executed,
acknowledged and filed in the office of the Auditor for'the State
of West Virginia, "to appoint ,said auditor and ,his successors
in office, attorney in fact to accept service of process and notice

in this State for said-St. Mary's Franco-American Petroleufii

