BIGELOW v. RKO RADIO PICTURES.
220

251

Syllabus.

that, the complaint is legally sufficient. Griffin could have
had no doubt that his wife was suing in the District of
Columbia for unpaid instalments of alimony which New
York, as part of the divorce proceedings, had decreed in
her favor. Upon the record before us the petitioner disclaimed liability for these arrears on grounds which do not
save him. We ought not to deny liability flowing from
a live judgment by assuming that the petitioner has better
grounds for avoiding liability than those that he has already asserted. If, perchance, he could satisfy the district
court that he has failed to set up a valid defense through
a reasonable misconception of what was the essence of his
wife's suit, namely a suit for arrears of alimony which were
her due, it would not be casting an unreasonable burden
on the petitioner to require him to move to set aside the
judgment on appropriate grounds.

BIGELOW

ET AL.

v. RKO RADIO PICTURES, INC.
ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 444. Argued February 7, 1946.-Decided February 25, 1946.
1. Petitioners owned a motion picture theatre in Chicago. Some of
the respondents were distributors of motion picture films; others
owned or controlled motion picture theatres in Chicago. Petitioners
sued respondents under the Sherman and Clayton Acts to recover
treble damages. The gist of the complaint was that, by reason
of an unlawful conspiracy of the respondents, petitioners were prevented from securing pictures -for exhibition in their theatre until
after the preferred exhibitors had been able to show them in earlier
and more desirable runs, and that petitioners were thus discriminated against in the distribution of feature films in favor of competing theatres owned or controlled by some of the respondents.
It appeared that, after the introduction in 1937 of the practice
of showing double features, petitioners were no longer able to secure
films which had not had a prior showing. Petitioners charged that

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

in consequence of respondents' unlawful acts they had suffered
a loss of earnings in excess of $120,000 during the 5-year period
from 1937 to 1942. Two classes of evidence were introduced by
petitioners to establish their damage. One was a comparison of
earnings during the 5-year period of petitioners' theatre with those
of a comparable theatre of the respondents, which showed a difference of nearly $116,000 in favor of the latter. The second was
a comparison of the receipts of petitioners' theatre for the five
years following July 1937 with the receipts for the four years immediately preceding, which showed a decline aggregating more than
$125,000. The jury returned a verdict for petitioners in the sum
of $120,000, and the trial court gave judgment for treble that
amount. The circuit court of appeals reversed on the sole ground
that the evidence of damage was insufficient for submission to the
jury, and directed entry of judgment for respondents non obstante
veredicto. Heldthat the evidence was sufficient to sustain the verdict for the petitioners. Pp. 253-254, 266.
(a) The evidence was ample to support a just and reasonable
inference that petitioners were damaged by respondents' acts.
P. 266.
(b) Whatever restraints respondents' distribution system may
have imposed, and whether the policy later adopted of showing
double features was or was not itself a product of an unlawful
conspiracy, petitioners were entitled, as of right, to continue to
purchase and show films which had not had prior showing, free
of restraints of the unlawful distribution system. P. 262.
(c) A fair measure of the damage to that right of the petitioners
was the loss of petitioners' admission receipts resulting from the
operation of the unlawful distributing system. Pp. 262-263.
(d) The fact that, by reason of respondent's tortious acts in
maintaining the discriminatory distribution system, the petitioners
were unable to prove what their earnings would have been under
freely competitive conditions, did not preclude a verdict for the
petitioners. P. 263.
(e) The comparison of petitioners' receipts before and after
respondents' unlawful action impinged on petitioners' business afforded a sufficient basis for the jury's computation of the damage,
where respondents' wrongful action had prevented petitioners from
making any more precise proof of the amount of the damages.
P. 266.
2. A jury may not render a verdict based on speculation or guesswork, even where the defendant by his own wrong has precluded
a more precise computation of damages. But the jury may make

BIGELOW v. RKO RADIO PICTURES.
251

253

Opinion of the Court.

a just and reasonable estimate of the damage based on relevant
data and render its verdict accordingly. In such circumstances
juries are allowed to act on probable and inferential as well as
upon direct and positive proof. Story Parchment Co. v. Paterson
Co., 282 U. S. 555; Eastman Kodak Co. v. Southern Photo Co.,
273 U. S. 359. P. 264.
3. Elementary conceptions of justice and public policy require that
the wrongdoer shall bear the risk of the uncertainty in computing
damages which his wrong has created. P. 265.
150 F. 2d 877, reversed.

From a judgment for the plaintiffs in a suit for dam-

ages under the antitrust acts, the defendants appealed.
The circuit court of appeals reversed. 150 F. 2d 877.
This Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 709. Reversed,
p. 266.
Thomas C. McConnell argued the cause for petitioners. With him on the brief was Hubert Van Hook.
Edward F. McClennen argued the cause for respondents. With him on the brief was Miles G. Seeley.
Solicitor General McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Berge and Charles H. Weston filed a brief for the
United States, as amicus curiae, in support of petitioners.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners brought this suit in the District Court for
Northern Illinois under § § 1, 2 and 7 of the Sherman Act
(26 Stat. 209), and §§ 4 and 16 of the Clayton Act (38
Stat. 731), 15 U. S. C. §§ 1, 2, 15, and 26, for an injunction
and to recover treble damages. Petitioners, who are owners of the Jackson Park motion picture theatre in Chicago,
alleged by their bill of complaint that respondents, some
of whom are distributors of moving picture films and
some of whom own or control moving picture theatres in
Chicago, entered into a conspiracy which continued from

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

some date prior to November 1, 1936 to the date the suit
was brought, July 28, 1942, pursuant to which film was
distributed among moving picture theatres in the Chicago
district in such a manner that theatres owned by some
of the conspirators were enabled to secure and show feature pictures in advance of independent exhibitors, not
affiliated with respondents, such as petitioners.
The gist of the complaint is that, by reason of the conspiracy, petitioners were prevented from securing pictures
for exhibition in their theatre until after the preferred
exhibitors had been able to show them in the earlier and
more desirable runs, and that petitioners have thus been
discriminated against in the distribution of feature films
in favor of competing theatres owned or controlled by
some of the respondents. Petitioners charged that in consequence they had been subjected to loss of earnings in
excess of $120,000 during the five year period from July
27, 1937 to July 27, 1942. The matter of the injunction
was reserved and the case went to trial solely on the question of damages. The jury returned a verdict for $120,000
in petitioners' favor. The trial court gave judgment for
treble that amount, as prescribed by § 4 of the Clayton
Act. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit reversed on the sole ground that the evidence of
damage was not sufficient for submission to the jury, and
directed the entry of a judgment for respondents non
obstante veredicto. 150 F. 2d 877. We granted certiorari, 326 U. S. 709, because of the importance of the
problem presented.
Respondents do not now assail the jury's verdict, so
far as it found an unlawful conspiracy to maintain a discriminatory system of distribution. The sole question for
decision here is whether the evidence of damage is sufficient to support the verdict. As the jury returned a general verdict, the nature and extent of the unlawful
conspiracy must be ascertained in the light of the instruc-

BIGELOW v. RKO RADIO PICTURES.
251

255

Opinion of the Court.

tions given to the jury, taking that view of the evidenbe
most favorable to petitioners. Petitioners have been since
November 1, 1936 the owners in partnership of the Jackson Park Theatre, located on the south side of Chicago.
Respondents RKO Radio Pictures, Inc., Loew's, Inc.,
Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation, Paramount
Pictures, Inc., and Vitagraph, Inc., are distributors of motion picture films. Respondent RKO also owns two large
first-run theatres in the Chicago Loop. Respondent
Balaban & Katz Corporation is a motion picture exhibitor,
which operates a chain of some fifty theatres in Chicago
and its suburbs, including the Maryland Theatre and
others on the south side of Chicago which compete with
the petitioners' Jackson Park Theatre. Balaban & Katz
is a subsidiary of Paramount. Respondent Warner Bros.
Circuit Management Corporation is an exhibitor which
operates more than twenty theatres in Chicago, including
several on Chicago's south side which also compete with
petitioners' theatre. Warner Bros. Circuit Management
Corporation and Vitagraph are subsidiaries of Warner
Bros. Pictures, Inc. Respondent Warner Bros. Theatres,
Inc., is also affiliated with Warner Bros. Pictures, Inc. and
holds title to certain of the Warner theatres.
There was evidence from which the jury could have
found that respondents maintained in the Chicago district, by a conspiracy among themselves, a discriminatory
system of distributing motion pictures for showing in successive weeks of release. The release system, as described
in the complaint, and shown by the proof, operated substantially as follows: Respondent distributors rent their
copyrighted product to motion picture theatres for exhibition to the public. Rental contracts between distributors and exhibitors undertake to furnish films to the
exhibitors for stipulated rentals, and provide for the "playing position" in which the motion picture theatre is to
exhibit the films relative to the "playing position" of other

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

theatres in the competitive area. In Chicago, these contracts uniformly provide that the larger theatres in the
Chicago Loop, all owned, leased, or operated by one or
more of the respondents, shall have the right to the "first
run" of the motion pictures distributed by the respondents, for one week or such longer period as they may desire
to exhibit them. Following the "first run," the motion picture may not be shown in any Chicago theatre outside
the Loop for three weeks, a period known as "clearance."
In the fourth week following the end of the Loop run, the
film is released for exhibition in theatres outside the Loop
for successive runs in various theatres, for periods known
as the "A", "B" and "C" "pre-release weeks," followed by
weeks of "general release."
The earlier a playing position, the more desirable it is,
since it is preferable to exhibit pictures before they have
been shown to the public in other theatres in the competitive area. There was evidence that respondent distributors and exhibitors conspired to give to the distributor-controlled or affiliated theatres preferential playing
positions in the release system over the positions allotted
to independent competing theatres, including that of petitioners, with the result that petitioners' theatre was
unable to obtain feature films until the first week of "general release," or ten weeks after the end of the Loop run.
By that time most of respondent exhibitors' theatres, with
several of which petitioners' theatre competes, and which
enjoyed the prior "A", "B" or "C" pre-release runs, had
finished their showings. Regardless of the price offered
for rental of film, the respondent exhibitors, in execution
of the conspiracy, refused to release films to petitioners'
theatre except for the first week of "general release."
Although petitioners' ground for recovery, as stated by
their bill of complaint, was the discriminatory operation
of the system of releasing pictures for showing in allotted
playing positions, whereby the petitioners were prevented

BIGELOW v. RKO RADIO PICTURES.
251

257

Opinion of the Court.

from acquiring films for exhibition until they had been
shown in respondent distributors' theatres competing with
the Jackson Park, evidence was introduced in the course
of the trial tending to show that respondents conspired
to maintain the release system as part of a conspiracy to
maintain minimum admission prices to be charged by
exhibitors generally. This proof indicated that the object of this conspiracy was to make it possible to maintain
high admission prices in the Loop theatres by restricting
the price competition of the subsequent-run theatres.
The distributors' contracts with the Loop theatres provided for film rentals based on a percentage of the admission fees collected. It appeared that the rental contracts
entered into between respondent distributors and the
Chicago exhibitors, including respondent exhibitors and
petitioners, uniformly contained schedules of minimum
admission prices fixed on the basis of the playing position
assigned. There was thus evidence tending to show that
the release system and the price-fixing system were each
an integral part of an unlawful conspiracy to give to the
Loop theatres the advantages of a first-run protected from
low-price competition.
Respondents' evidence, on the other hand, tended to
show that the release system was a natural growth in the
industry, and that the fixed-price system had resulted from
the individual action of distributors, not acting in concert,
to market their copyrighted product in such a manner as
to secure the best possible financial return from the film
distributed. See Interstate Circuit v. United States, 306
U. S. 208; consent decree in United States v. Balaban &
Katz Corp., C. C. H. Fed. Trade Reg. Serv., 7th ed., Court
Decisions Supplement, p. 5025.
Two classes of evidence were introduced by petitioners
to establish their damage. One was a comparison of
earnings during the five year period of petitioners' Jackson
Park Theatre with the earnings of its competitor, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Maryland Theatre, the two being comparable in size, the
Jackson Park being superior in location, equipment, and
attractiveness to patrons. Under the discriminatory release system, the Maryland had been allowed to exhibit
pictures in the C pre-release run, one week ahead of petitioners' first week of general release. The evidence
showed that during the five year period, the Maryland's
net receipts after deducting film rentals paid to distributors exceeded petitioners' like receipts by $115,982.34.
The second was a comparison of petitioners' receipts
from the operation of the Jackson Park Theatre less cost
of film for the five year period following July 1937, with
the corresponding receipts for the four years immediately
preceding, after making an allowance for the elimination
of "Bank Night" receipts. The comparison shows a falling off of petitioners' receipts during the five year period
aggregating $125,659.00, which was more than $5,000 in
excess of the $120,000 damage demanded by petitioners'
complaint. The significance of the comparison lies in the
fact that during most of the four year period, and despite
the operation of the release system as described, petitioners' theatre had been able to procure some films which
had not already been shown in respondents' theatres,
whereas petitioners were not able to procure such films
during the five year period which followed, although there
is evidence that they made diligent efforts to do so. The
change is'attributable to the introduction of the practice
of "double features" (the showing of two films at a single
performance) in theatres in the Chicago district. The
evidence tended to show that when single features were
being shown, exhibitors who had playing positions ahead
of petitioners', in selecting films out of those which their
rental contracts allowed them to show, did not exhibit all
of the films distributed, so that, despite their inferior playing position, petitioners were able to exhibit pictures which
had not been shown elsewhere. With the advent of double

BIGELOW v. RKO RADIO PICTURES.
251

259

Opinion of the Court.

featuring, theatres with playing positions ahead of petitioners' used nearly all of the films distributed, and the
pictures which petitioners were able to exhibit in the first
week of general release, by reason of the distribution system, had had prior showing in nearly every case.
The trial court left it to the jury to say whether double
featuring was introduced as a part of a conspiracy among
respondents, or as a spontaneous manifestation in the industry. Assuming the latter, we agree with the circuit
court of appeals, which, in sustaining the jury's finding
of an unlawful conspiracy to maintain the described system of distribution, held that when the double featuring
was established, all film which had not already been
shown "was taken away by defendants' prior contracts,
made pursuant to and as a part of the conspiracy, and
placed under the restriction of the illegal system, and
thereafterwas not obtainable by plaintiffs, except by use
of the illegal system."
In submitting the two classes of evidence of damage
which we have detailed, the trial court stated to the jury:
"Plaintiffs seek to recover damages for the alleged acts
of defendants on one of two theories . . ." It further
charged that "If . . . plaintiffs have been injured by the

alleged acts of defendants, they must choose one or the
other of said two theories of determining damage or the
amount of damages." The circuit court of appeals concluded that the jury accepted the comparison of plaintiffs'
earnings before and after the adoption of double billing
as establishing the measure of petitioners' damage. But
it held that this proof did not furnish a proper measure
of damage for the reason that, while petitioners' earnings
were known and proved for both the four and five year
periods in question, it could not be proved what their
earnings would have been during the five year period in
the absence of the illegal distribution of films. It thought
that the mere fact that earnings of the Jackson Park The-

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

atre were greater before the adoption of double billing did
not serve to show what petitioners' earnings would have
been afterwards, in the absence of the release system.
Similarly, the court of appeals rejected the comparison
between petitioners' receipts and those of the Maryland
Theatre during the five years in question, since, as it
thought, the comparison would not tend to prove what
the earnings of either theatre would have been during the
critical period under any system other than that which
was the product of the unlawful conspiracy.
Upon the record in this case it is indisputable that the
jury could have found that during the period in question
a first or prior run theat, possessed competitive advantages over later run theatres, because of its greater
capacity to attract patronage to pictures which had not
been shown elsewhere, and its ability to charge higher
admission prices than subsequent run theatres, and that,
other things being equal, the establishment of the discriminatory release system was damaging to the petitioners, who were relegated by it to a playing position
inferior to that of their competitors.
Each of the two classes of evidence introduced by petitioners tended to show damage. They were not mutually
exclusive, as the courts below seem to have thought, since
each, independently of the other, tended to show that
petitioners' inability to obtain films for exhibition before
they had been shown elsewhere adversely affected their
receipts, in the one case by showing that those receipts decreased when petitioners could no longer purchase such
films following the introduction of double features, and
in the other, that petitioners' receipts from its theatre were
less by substantially the same amount than receipts of
its competitor, the prior-run Maryland Theatre, operated
under conditions in other respects less favorable than
those affecting petitioners.
Respondents' argument is, that notwithstanding the
force of this evidence, it is impossible to establish any

BIGELOW v. RKO RADIO PICTURES.
251

261

Opinion of the Court.

measure of damage, because the unlawful system which
respondents have created has precluded petitioners from
showing that other conditions affecting profits would have
continued without change unfavorable to them during the
critical period if that system had not been established, and
petitioners had conducted their business in a free competitive market. Respondents also contend that the jury's
verdict establishes that the release system was part of a
price-fixing conspiracy, and on the assumption that pricefixing and the discriminatory system of release were inseparable parts of a single scheme, argue that as the conspiracy as a whole probably enabled petitioners artificially
to raise their prices to an undetermined extent, the overall
effect of the conspiracy may 'well have been to benefit
petitioners, even though the plan of distribution, one of
its features, may have injured them. But we think these
arguments are based on a misapprehension of the precise
conditions in which the jury -was -permitted to and did
apply the tendered measure of damages, and that it also
ignores controlling principles of the law of damages.
We have already adverted to the facts that petitioners'
cause of action, as stated in their complaint, was founded
on the unlawful system of distributing films; that the contentions pro and con as to the existence of a conspiracy to
fix prices of theatre admissions first emerged in the course
of the trial; and that the jury was allowed to fix the measure of the damage with reference to the reduction of petitioners' receipts after July 1937 when petitioners were
no longer able to show some films which had not been previously exhibited. Under the complaint and the instructions, the jury could, and we can assume that it did, find
that the fixing of minimum prices was effectuated by the
individual action of distributors, as respondents contended
at the trial, and not as a part or result of the conspiracy
to control distribution. The jury could have found that
the only unlawful action taken by respondents was in

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

conspiring to prevent petitioners' theatre from bidding
in open competition against other exhibitors for a preferred place in an otherwise lawful system of release. This
is apparent from the following portion of the charge:
"Only in the event that you find that there exists no conspiracy or combination to fix minimum admission prices,
or no unreasonable restraint of trade, by the defendants
by virtue of the Chicago system of release, will you have
occasion to consider whether or not the plaintiffs demanded and sought to obtain a playing position in 'C'
week."
The jury's verdict was, as the court below held, based
on the damage suffered by petitioners in consequence of
the deprivation, by the discriminatory operation of the
release system, of their demonstrated freedom to rent and
exhibit some films which had not had prior showing.
Hence we take it that the verdict did not establish that
the fixed minimum admission prices were the result of
the unlawful conspiracy, or that the petitioners' purchases of such films, and the operation of their theatre,
before the double feature practice was inaugurated, were,
for purposes material here, affected by the conspiracy.
The record thus establishes that when petitioners acquired their theatre, it was possible for them under the
conditions then prevailing to secure films which had not
had prior showing and to exhibit them in competition with
theatres having preferred playing positions. Whatever
restraints respondents' distribution system may then have
imposed, and whether the later adopted practice of showing double features was or was not itself a product of an
unlawful conspiracy, petitioners were entitled, as of right,
to continue to purchase and show films which had not had
prior showing free of the restraints of the unlawful distribution system. The fair value of petitioners' right thus
to continue their business depended on its capacity to
make profits. And a fair measure of the damage to that

BIGELOW v. RKO RADIO PICTURES.
251

263

Opinion of the Court.

right by respondents' unlawful distributing system was
the loss of petitioners' admission receipts resulting from
the application of that system to petitioners.
Respondents only answer is that, without the conspiracy, the conditions of purchase of films might not have
been the same after as they were before July, 1937; that
in any case it is not possible to say what those conditions
would have been if the restraints had not been imposed,
and that those conditions cannot be ascertained, because
respondents have not removed the restraint. Hence, it
is said, petitioners' evidence does not establish the fact
of damage, and that further, the standard of comparison
which the evidence sets up is too speculative and uncertain to afford an accurate measure of the amount of the
damage.
The case in these respects is comparable to Eastman
Kodak Co. v. Southern Photo Co., 273 U. S. 359, and Story
Parchment Co. v. PatersonCo., 282 U. S. 555, in which
precisely the same arguments now addressed to us were
rejected. There, as here, the suits were for damages
caused by restraints imposed by defendants, in violation
of the Sherman Antitrust Act, on the operation of the
business of the complainant in each case. In the one case,
the defendant, in an effort to extend its monopoly, refused
to sell to the plaintiff goods which had regularly been a
part of his stock in trade. In the other, the defendants,
competing sellers, engaged in destructive price competition with the plaintiff in execution of an unlawful conspiracy. In the first case, the plaintiff sought to establish
his damage by comparing his profits before and after
the unlawful interference with his business. In the other,
the plaintiff sought to show his damage by proof of the
difference between the amounts actually realized from his
business after the conspiracy became effective, and what,
but for the conspiracy, would have been realized by it from
sales at reasonable prices, the evidence of which was the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

amount by which his current prices were higher before
the conspiracy than after, and by the extent to which the
value of plaintiff's business property had declined after
the conspiracy had begun to operate.
In each case we held that the evidence sustained verdicts for the plaintiffs, and that in the absence of more
precise proof, the jury could conclude as a matter of just
and reasonable inference" from the proof of defendants'
wrongful acts and their tendency to injure plaintiffs' business, and from the evidence of the decline in prices, profits
and values, not shown to be attributable to other causes,
that defendants' wrongful acts had caused damage to the
plaintiffs. In this we but followed a well-settled principle. See Hetzel v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 169 U. S.
26, 38-9. The tortious acts had in each case precluded ascertainment of the amount of damages more precisely, by
comparison of profits, prices and values as affected by the
conspiracy, with what they would have been in its absence
under freely competitive conditions. Nevertheless, we
held that the jury could return a verdict for the plaintiffs,
even though damages could not be measured with the
exactness which would otherwise have been possible.
In such a case, even where the defendant by his own
wrong has prevented a more precise computation, the jury
may not render a verdict based on speculation or guesswork. But the jury may make a just and reasonable estimate of the damage based on relevant data, and render
its verdict accordingly. In such circumstances "juries
are allowed to act upon probable and inferential, as well
as direct and positive proof." Story Parchment Co. v.
PatersonCo., supra,561-4; EastmanKodak Co. v. Southern Photo Co., supra,377-9. Any other rule would enable
the wrongdoer to profit by his wrongdoing at the expense
of his victim. It would be an inducement to make wrongdoing so effective and complete in every case as to preclude
any recovery, by rendering the measure of damages un-

BIGELOW v. RKO RADIO PICTURES.
251

265

Opinion of the Court.

certain. Failure to apply it-would mean that the more
grievous the wrong done, the less likelihood there would
be of a recovery.
The most elementary conceptions of justice and public
policy require that the wrongdoer shall bear the risk of
the uncertainty which his own wrong has created. See
Package Closure Corp. v. Sealright Co., 141 F. 2d 972,
979. That principle is an ancient one, Armory v. Delamirie, 1 Strange 505, and is not restricted to proof of damage in antitrust suits, although their character is such as
frequently to call for its application. In cases of collision
where the offending vessel has violated regulations prescribed by statute, see The Pennsylvania, 19 Wall. 125,
136, and in cases of confusion of goods, Great Southern
Gas & Oil Co. v. Logan Natural Gas & Fuel Co., 155 F.
114, 115; cf. F. W. Woolworth Co. v. Labor Board, 121 F.
2d 658, 663, the wrongdoer may not object to the plaintiff's
reasonable estimate of the cause of injury and of its
amount, supported by the evidence, because not based
on more accurate data which the wrongdoer's misconduct
has rendered unavailable. And in cases where a wrongdoer has incorporated the subject of a plaintiff's patent
or trade-mark in a single product to which the defendant
has contributed other elements of value or utility, and
has derived profits from the sale of the product, this
Court has sustained recovery of the full amount of defendant's profits where his own wrongful action has made
it impossible for the plaintiff to show in what proportions
he and the defendant have contributed to the profits.
Westinghouse Co. v. Wagner Mfg. Co., 225 U. S. 604;
Hamilton Shoe Co. v. Wolf Brothers, 240 U. S. 251; see
also Sheldon v. Metro-Goldwyn Corp., 309 U. S. 390, 406.
"The constant tendency of the courts is to find some
way in which damages can be awarded where a wrong has
been done. Difficulty of ascertainment is no longer confused with right of recovery" for a proven invasion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

plaintiff's rights. Story Parchment Co. v. Paterson Co.,
supra, 565; and see also Palmer v. Connecticut R. Co.,
311 U. S. 544, 559, and cases cited.
The evidence here was ample to support a just and
reasonable inference that petitioners were damaged by
respondents' action, whose unlawfulness the jury has
found, and respondents do not challenge. The comparison of petitioners' receipts before and after respondents'
unlawful action impinged on petitioners' business afforded
a sufficient basis for the jury's computation of the damage, where the respondents' wrongful action had prevented
petitioners from making any more precise proof of the
amount of the damage.
We do not mean to indicate by what we have said that
the jury could not, on this record, have found a conspiracy
for fixing minimum prices or that the Chicago system of
release was not an unreasonable restraint of trade in other
respects. We conclude that there was evidence to support
a verdict for damages on at least one theory on which the
case was submitted to the jury. We do not imply that the
verdict could not be supported on some other theory.
The judgment of the district court below will be affirmed
and the judgment of the court of appeals is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting.

The dominant purpose of the Anti-Trust Acts is protection of the public interest by prohibiting unjustifiable
restrictions upon competitive enterprise. From the very
nature of the public interest thus to be safeguarded and by
reason of the complex and costly character of the litigation
to which it normally gives rise, Congress made available
to the Attorney General of the United States appropriate

BIGELOW v. RKO RADIO PICTURES.
251

FRANKFURTER,

267

J., dissenting.

preventive and punitive remedies: the injunction, to put
a prompt stop to illegal restraints, and the stern sanctions
of the criminal law, to deter such restraints. A right of
action is also given to any individual who has been "injured in his business" by such illegality. But while action
by the Government to enforce the Anti-Trust Acts merely
requires proof of illegality, an individual's right of recovery is dependent on proof of legal injury to him, and
legal injury is not automatically established by proof of
d restraint of trade in violation of the Sherman Law. See
Keogh v. Chicago & Northwestern R. Co., 260 U. S. 156,
162-63.
Therefore our real question is whether the respondents'
violation of the Sherman Law illegally injured the petitioners. This necessarily involves substantial proof that
the petitioners' business would have been more profitable
if the distribution of movie films in Chicago had been a
free-for-all and if no factor of the scheme that constituted
an illegal conspiracy had been in operation, than it was
under the conditions that actually prevailed. Specifically, one feature of the conspiracy was stipulated rentals
by distributors in furnishing films to exhibitors. The
record appears devoid of proof that, if competitive conditions had prevailed, distributors would not have made
rental contracts with their respective exhibiting affiliates
to the serious disadvantage of independents like the petitioners. They might individually have done so and not
have offended the Sherman Law.
I agree that Eastman Kodak Co. v. Southern Photo Co.,
273 U. S. 359, and Story Parchment Co. v. PatersonCo.,
282 U. S. 555, should guide the disposition of this case.
But I do not find that the decisive distinction made in
those cases has been observed in deciding this case. The
distinction is between proving that some damages were
"the certain result of the wrong" and uncertainty as to the
dollars and cents value of such injuring wrong. Such

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

difficulty in ascertaining the exact amount of damage is
a risk properly cast upon the wrong-doing defendant.
But proof of the legal injury, which is the basis of his suit,
is plaintiff's burden. He does not establish it merely by
proving that there was a wrong to the public nor by showing that if he had been injured ascertainment of the exact
amount of damages would have had an inevitable speculative element to be left for a jury's conscientious guess.
This basic distinction was thus formulated in Story Parchment Co. v. PatersonCo.:
"The rule which precludes the recovery of uncertain
damages applies to such as are not the certain result
of the wrong, not to those damages which are definitely attributable to the wrong and only uncertain
in respect of their amount." 282 U. S. at 562.
In the Eastman and Story cases the plaintiffs established
what their profit was when competitive conditions prevailed and that the subsequent loss properly became exclusively attributable to restraint of such conditions.
Such a comparison is not revealed by this record. It was
wholly speculative, as the Circuit Court of Appeals properly held in applying the rule in the Story Parchment Co.
case, whether the intake of petitioners would have been
more profitable if the distribution of films in Chicago had
been left wholly to the haggling of a free market, 150 F. 2d
877. As to the subtleties involved in such speculation,
compare International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234
U. S. 216, 223-24.
Where there is conceded legal injury, as for instance
where one man's chattel is taken by another, as in the old
case of Armory v. Delamirie, 1 Strange 505, we start with
the legal injury and the problem is merely one of ascertaining damages "uncertain in respect of their amount."
Such cases are not helpful where the crucial issue, as here,
is whether there is solid proof of the existence of a legal
injury.

