ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.

661

Syllabus.

655

tivities coincided with wartime needs does not necessarily
prove that they were other than voluntary in nature.
Much activity in recent years furthered the war effort
although it was profitable and although it was done without compulsion by public authority.
The Commission was therefore justified in concluding
that appellant's failure to engage in bona fide operations
since January 1, 1940, was due to circumstances other than
those over which appellant had no control. Appellant
accordingly forfeited whatever "grandfather" rights it
might have had.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR.
JUSTICE RUTLEDGE dissent.
MR.JUSTICE JACKSON took no part

in the consideration

or decision of this case.

ELGIN, JOLIET & EASTERN RAILWAY CO. v.
BURLEY

ET AL.

ON REHEARING.
No. 160, October Term, 1944. Reargued December 3, 4, 1945.Decided March 25, 1946.
1. On rehearing, the Court adheres to its previous decision in this
case. Elgin, J. & E. R. Co. v. Burley, 325 U. S. 711. P. 662.
2. As in its previous opinion, the Court expressly refrains from
making any definitive statement as to what might be sufficient evidence of a collective agent's authority either to settle finally an
aggrieved individual employee's claims or to represent him exclusively before the Adjustment Board. P. 663.
3. When an award of the Adjustment Board involving an employee's
individual grievance is challenged in the courts, one who would
upset it carries the burden of showing that it was wrong. P. 664.
4. The previous decision is not to be interpreted as meaning that an
employee may stand by with knowledge or notice of what is going
on with reference to his claim, either between the carrier and the
union on the property, or before the Board on their submission,

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

allow matters to proceed to a determination by one method or the
other, and then come in for the first time to assert his individual
rights. P. 666.

Upon rehearing, 326 U. S. 801, of the decision of the
Court at the 1944 Term in Elgin, J. & E. R. Co. v. Burley,
325 U. S. 711. Affirmed, p. 667.
Paul R. Conaghan argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
By special leave of Court Robert L. Stern argued the
cause for the United States, as amicus curiae. With him
on the brief was Solicitor General McGrath.
John H. Gately argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondents.
Briefs were filed as amici curiae by Ray T. Miller, Wayland K. Sullivan, HaroldN. McLaughlin and W. A. Endle
for the Brotherhoods of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen; by Harold C. Heiss, Russell B. Day and V. C. Shuttleworth for the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and
Enginemen et al.; and by Lee Pressman,Eugene Cotton,
Frank Donner, Willard Y. Morris, William Standard,
David Scribner, Leon M. Despres, John J. Abt, Isadore
Katz, M. H. Goldstein and Ben Meyers for the Congress
of Industrial Organizations et al., in support of petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We adhere to our decision rendered in the opinion filed
after the first argument. 325 U. S. 711.1 That opinion
' The petition for rehearing, which resulted in setting the case for
reargument, was supported by motions filed amicus curiae by various
labor organizations and by the office of the Solicitor General. Upon
granting of the motions, those organizations and the Solicitor General
filed briefs amicus curiae and the latter participated in the argument.
Various positions were taken upon the merits which we have considered but do not find it necessary to set forth.

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
661

Opinion of the Court.

expressly refrained from undertaking to make a definitive
statement of what might be sufficient evidence of the collective agent's authority either to settle finally the aggrieved individual employee's claims or to represent him
exclusively before the Adjustment Board. We do not attempt to do so now. For whether the collective agent has
such authority is a question which may arise in many types
of situations involving the grievances either of members
of the union or of nonmembers, or both, and necessarily
therefore no all-inclusive rule can be formulated for all
such situations. But neither does this mean that an
equally all-exclusive rule must be followed, namely, that
authority can be given or shown only in some particular
way.
The question whether the collective agent has authority,
in the two pertinent respects, does not turn on technical
agency rules such as apply in the simple, individualistic
situation where P deals with T through A about the sale
of Blackacre. We are dealing here with problems in a
specialized field, with a long background of custom and
practice in the railroad world. And the fact that § 3 First
(i) provides that disputes between carriers and their employees arising out of grievances or out of the interpretation or application of agreements concerning rates of pay,
rules or working conditions "shall be handled in the usual
manner" up to and including the chief operating officer of
the carrier, indicates that custom and usage may be as
adequate a basis of authority as a more formal authorization for the union, which receives a grievance from an
employee for handling, to represent him in settling it or
in proceedings before the Board for its determination.'
2Furthermore, so far as union members are concerned, and they
are the only persons involved as respondents in this cause, it is
altogether possible for the union to secure authority in these respects
within well established rules relating to unincorporated organizations
and their relations with their members, by appropriate provisions in

664

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Moreover, when an award of the Adjustment Board
involving an employee's individual grievance is challenged
in the courts, one who would upset it carries the burden of
showing that it was wrong.' Its action in adjusting an
individual employee's grievance at the instance of the
collective bargaining agent is entitled to presumptive
weight. For, in the first place, there can be no presumption either that the union submitting the dispute would
undertake to usurp the aggrieved employee's right to
participate in the proceedings by other representation of
his own choice, or that the Board knowingly would act in
disregard or violation of that right. Its duty, and the
union's, are to the contrary under the Act.4
Furthermore, the Board is acquainted with established
procedures, customs and usages in the railway labor world.
It is the specialized agency selected to adjust these controversies. 'Its expertise is adapted not only to interpreting a collective bargaining agreement,' but also to ascertheir by-laws, constitution or other governing regulations, as well as
by usage or custom. There was nothing to the contrary in our former
opinion. We only ruled that on the showing made in this respect,
which included controverted issues concerning the meaning and applicability of the'union's regulations, and the effects of custom and usage,
we could not say as a matter of law that the disputed authority had
been given.
3 In a somewhat different connection, which however we think not
without weight here, § 3 First (p) provides that the Board's award
"shall be prima facie evidence of the facts therein stated" in the statutory suit provided for enforcement of awards.
. 4The contrary practice noted in our former opinion, 325 U. S. 732733, has been due without question, we think, to the Board's erroneous
conception, accepted generally also by the unions and strongly urged
in this case especially upon the reargument, that the Act itself, notwithstanding the provisions particularly of § 3 First (j) and the
proviso to § 2 Fourth, confers exclusive statutory power upon the
collective agent to deal with the carrier concerning individual grievances and to represent the aggrieved employee in 13oard proceedings.
We recently emphasized this in Order of Railway Conductors v.
Pitney, 326 U. S.561, 567, in which we said: "Since all parties seek

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
661

Opinion of the Court.

taining the scope of the collective agent's authority beyond
what the Act itself confers, in view of the extent to which
this also may be affected by custom and usage.
We also pointed out that the Act imposes correlative
affirmative duties upon the carrier, the collective agent
and the aggrieved employee to make every reasonable
effort to settle the dispute.' It would be entirely inconsistent for the Act to require the carrier and the union to
negotiate concerning the settlement of the grievance and,
while withholding power from them to make that settlement effective finally as against the employee, to relieve
him altogether of obligation in the matter. Not only is
he required to take affirmative steps. His failure to do so
may result in loss of his rights.7
It is not likely that workingmen having grievances will
be ignorant in many cases either of negotiations conducted
between the collective agent and the carrier for their settlement or of the fact that the dispute has been submitted
to support their particular interpretation of these agreements by
evidence as to usage; practice and custom, that too must be taken into
account and properly understood. The factual question is intricate
and technical. An agency especially competent and specifically designated to deal with it has been created by Congress."
6 See 325 U. S. 711 at notes 12, 18 and text. We said: "The obligation [to negotiate] is not partial. In plain terms the duty is laid on
carrier and employees alike, together with their representatives; and
in equally plain terms it applies to all disputes covered by the Act,
whether major or minor." Note 18. Cf. Virginian R. Co. v. System
Federation,300 U. S. 515, 548; Railroad Trainmen v. Toledo, P. & W.
R. Co., 321 U. S.50, 56 ff.
7 Even the ordinary law of agency attributes authority to a representative to act when the principal stands by with knowledge or notice
of his assumption of that authority and permits the third person to
act to his injury upon the same assumption. Cf. Seavey, The Rationale
of Agency (1920) 29 Yale L. J. 859, 873 et seq.; and other authorities
cited in Mechem, Cases on the Law of Agency (3d ed.) 186, note.
And of course the assumption that even so-called common law rules
of agency allow no room for the play of usage and custom is, to say
the least, naive.

666

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

by one or the other to the Adjustment Board for determination. Those negotiations, as the Act requires, are
conducted on the property. § 2 Sixth. Ordinarily submissions are not, and the statute contemplates that they
shall not be, made to the Board until after all reasonable
efforts to reach an agreement have been exhausted in good
faith.8
In view of these facts there cannot be many instances
in which an aggrieved employee will not have knowledge
or notice that negotiations affecting his claim are being
conducted or, if they fail, that proceedings are pending
before the Board to dispose of it.9 Although under our
ruling his rights to have voice in the settlement are preserved, whether by conferring with the carrier and, having
seasonably done so, refusing to be bound by a settlement
reached over his protest, or by having representation
before the Board according to his own choice, we did not
rule, and there is no basis for assuming we did, that an
employee can stand by with knowledge or notice of what
8

Cf. note 6 and authorities cited.
We pointed out in the former opinion that § 3 First (j) expressly
provides that "the several divisions of the Adjustment Board shall
give due notice of all hearings to the employee or employees and the
carrier or carriers involved in any dispute submitted to them," 325
U. S. at 731, 734, and this provision, with the emphasis we placed
upon the phrase "to the employee" and the conjunction of the provision for "due notice" with the provision for representation "in person,
by counsel, or by other representatives," was one of the statutory
mainstays for our conclusion that the Act did not give the collective
agent the exclusive powers over the settlement of grievances claimed
for it.
But we did not undertake to define what was meant by "due notice,"
nor do we now. "Due notice" conceivably could be given or had in a
variety of forms, more especially when account is taken of the generally informal procedure of the Board. It would require at the least,
we think, knowledge on the aggrieved employee's part of the pendency
of the proceedings or knowledge of such facts as would be sufficient to
put him on notice of their pendency.

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
661

FRANKFURTER,

667

J., dissenting.

is going on with reference to his claim, either between the
carrier and the union on the property, or before the Board
on their submission, allow matters to be thrashed out to a
conclusion by one method or the other, and then come in
for the first time to assert his individual rights. No such
ruling was necessary for their preservation and none was
intended.
It may be, as we said previously, that respondents upon
the further hearing will find it difficult to sustain their
allegations, whether with reference to knowledge or notice
in the material respects concerning which they have denied
having it or otherwise. But whether this burden will be
easy or impossible to carry, they are entitled to undertake
it in the forum where such issues properly are triable.
The judgment is affirmed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings consistent with this opinion and the
previous opinion filed in this cause.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case on the reargument.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

The

dissenting.

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BURTON,

and I are

of opinion that the judgment should be reversed. Last
Term a divided Court held that a determination by the
Adjustment Board of a dispute brought before it by a
union recognized as the collective bargaining agent on behalf of its members is not binding, and may be upset in a
district court in an independent suit involving the construction of the collective agreement, but brought by an
individual member on his own behalf. 325 U. S. 711. The
dissent expressed the view that "to allow such settlements
to be thus set aside is to obstruct the smooth working of
the Act. It undermines the confidence so indispensable
to adjustment by negotiation, which is the vital object of
the Act." Id. at 755-56.

668

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

The Court now announces that it "adheres" to its decision. But as we read the Court's interpretation of its
original opinion, it "adheres" to it by extracting from it
almost all of its vitality. We say "almost" because the one
thing that remains is the conclusion that the determination by the Adjustment Board that the recognized union
represented its members is allowed to be reopened not before the Board but anew in the courts, State or federal, in
an independent suit by a member of the union against the
carrier. To be sure, the prospects for redetermination are
largely illusory because the Court now erects a series of
hurdles which will be, and we assume were intended to be,
almost impossible for an employee to clear. But since
litigation is authorized and hope springs eternal in a litigant's breast, the far-reaching mischief of unsettling nonlitigious modes of adjustment under the machinery of the
Railway Labor Act largely remains. When peaceful settlements between carriers and the Brotherhoods are subject
to such hazards, the carrier can hardly be expected to negotiate with a union whose authority is subject to constant
challenge. It was this dislocation of settled habits in adjusting railroad labor relations which evoked a series of
petitions for rehearing from the United States, the
Brotherhoods, the Railway Labor Executives' Association,
and the organizations of industrial and craft unions. All
the interests primarily concerned and best informed on
these matters were aroused because for them the opinion
destroyed the capacity of the Railway Labor Act to fulfill
its function, ignored the normal practices of the industry,
and impaired the rights of collective bargaining generally.
Because of this unsettling effect, not abated by the present
decision's adherence to the prior by adding new complexities-complexities so inimical to healthy relations on the
railroads-we deem it appropriate to add to what was said
in the original dissent. 325 U. S. 711, 749.

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
661

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

That these mischiefs are real and potent is attested by
the arguments presented by the amici curiae. The United
States points out:
"The result of last Term's decision has been and
will be that a union's authority to settle a grievance
involving a claim for accrued damages will always be
subject to challenge by an individual who does not get
all he wants, unless the union has previously obtained
an exceedingly explicit power of attorney to act on
his behalf. This means that the carriers will be
likely to demand proof of such authorization from
every individual involved before undertaking to negotiate a grievance case, since they might otherwise be
liable to any employee dissatisfied with the settlement. As we shall see, this has been what has happened on the Adjustment Board.
In many simple cases, of course, it will not be difficult for the organization to secure an authorization.
In other types of cases, although many authorizations
could probably be obtained, it might be impossible to
obtain authority from every individual involved.
And whether or not impossible, the process of securing necessary authorizations might be so prolonged
as to prevent prompt disposition even of the many
cases which would in the past have been speedily
settled on the properties."
The Brotherhoods of Locomotive Engineers and of Railroad Trainmen thus summarize the effect of the Court's
decision:
"The impact of the Court's decision on the processes of grievance adjustment has already appeared
in the suspension of the functioning of the National
Railroad Adjustment Board and in indicated difficulties on various railroad properties. It is our conviction that unless this decision be reversed or substantially modified, the prompt and orderly settlement of such disputes will be impeded to a serious
degree. The holding upsets long established techniques of grievance handling by employee represent-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

atives and adversely affects the administration and
enforcement of the collective agreements.
We point out, first, that the Court's decision construes the Railway Labor Act in a way which frustrates the purposes which Congress had in mind in
providing for the settlement of grievance disputes."
"The shutting down of the Adjustment Board because
of the difficulty or the impossibility of securing authorizations is only one development of the decision.
We are advised that some managements are insisting
that local chairmen furnish powers of attorney in day
to day adjustments. Considering the various factors
involved, such as the volume of the grievances, the
extra burden placed on the committees, and the'additional delays which would be encountered, the task
of compliance with the technique required by the
Court's decision seems calculated to cause a breakdown of grievance handling by employee representatives. It is obvious that handling by individuals or
on an individual basis will not work. Such a breakdown, or even the impairment of collective handling
as traditionally practiced, will be serious, as prior
history shows."
"Second, the decision impairs the functioning of
employee representatives under the Act, and has an
adverse effect upon the maintenance of craft agreements. Representatives of employees have the statutory right and duty (1) to confer with management
respecting all disputes (§ 2 Second) and specifically
those arising out of grievances or out of the interpretation or application of agreements (§ 2 Sixth); and
(2) to represent a craft or class for the purposes of the
Act (§ 2 Fourth). The latter, of course, includes the
right to negotiate craft agreements. Employees, acting through representatives, have the right to make
and maintain agreements and to settle all disputes
(§ 2 Fourth, § 1 First). These provisions, we believe,
spell out collective bargaining rights with which the
Court's decision interferes."
The Railway Labor Executives' Association and the
American Federation of Labor make this analysis:

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
661

FRAx
NURTER,

671

J., dissenting.

"In summary, therefore, we submit that the regulatory scheme of the Railway Labor Act requires for
its effective operation a recognized authority in the
collective bargaining representative to proceed in its
own right to adjust disputes regarding the interpretation or application of agreements. A denial of that
right will produce no real benefits to individual employees, will impair the effectiveness of representatives as stabilizing influences in this field, will deprive
the carriers of any agency to which they may go to
secure a final settlement of many vexatious labor controversies, and will bring about a general deterioration of relations between employees and management
which will necessarily impair the paramount interest
of the public in uninterrupted transportation.
We respectfully submit that these results already
experienced or reasonably to be anticipated from the
interpretation which has been given to the Railway
Labor Act are inimical to the whole purpose of the
statute and should not be maintained."
"The decision of the court in effect outlaws a method
which has been successfully followed for a quarter of
a century in the adjustment of disputes of the kind
under consideration. Thousands of individual cases
have been settled during this period and up to the
time of the decision in this case, no one had questioned the authority of the employees' representatives to act in this connection. The existence of such
authority has always been considered as an integral
and essential part of the collective bargaining process
as it has developed under federal regulation. We
have no hesitancy in saying to the court that we believe that its decision denying the existence of such
authority reduces the potency of collective bargaining
as an instrumentality of peace in the railroad industry
to a lower level than that prevailing in 1920. We feel
that the court should be advised that since the announcement of its decision the National Railroad Adjustment Board has virtually ceased to function....
This brief is filed with the deep conviction that the
whole process of the orderly adjustment of controver-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

sies, which is the fruit of railroad labor legislation
obtained after long effort on the part of all concerned,
is now in serious jeopardy. The potentialities of this
case were not fully recognized by us when it was
originally before the court."
The Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen,
the Order of Railway Conductors of America, and Switch-

men's Union of North America united in this statement:
"We are compelled to conclude from this treatment
of the problem that the Court proposes to apply a
common-law standard, designedly suitable to the
relatively simple relationship of principal and agent,
as the test of the authority of a railway labor organization to handle and settle the host of grievances
which must be expeditiously and effectively disposed
of if the Congressional enjoinment 'to avoid any interruption to commerce or to the operation of any
carrier engaged therein' is to be accomplished.
We wish to respectfully suggest to the Court that
the entertainment of this proposed view could be
commended as reasonable only if the problem under
consideration were weighed wholly detached from
the realities of its environment. If a strait-jacket of
legal restrictions is not to shackle the railway labor
organizations in the performance of the services expected of them by the Congress and the country at
large as outlined in the Railway Labor Act, the
mind of the Court must be accurately attuned to the
practicalities of the problems faced by these
representatives."
To these the Congress of Industrial Organizations on its
own behalf and for its constituent unions' adds:
"United Steelworkers of America, United Railroad Workers of
America, Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America, United Packinghouse Workers of America, Textile Workers Union of America,
International Longshoremen's &Warehousemen's Union, United Office
& Professional Workers of America, American Communications Association, American Newspaper Guild, Industrial Union Marine & Shipbuilding Workers of America, United Farm Equipment & Metal

Workers of America, International Union of Mine, Mill & Smelter

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
661

FRANKFURTER,

673

J., dissenting.

"The Court holds that such union settlements are not
permitted, that there must be settlement with the
employees involved. It leaves open the question
whether an employee settlement alone is sufficient or
whether a joint settlement with employee and union
is necessary (Slipsheet 20-21). It concedes that if
employee settlements are permitted, then, as to most
grievances at least, the union must be allowed to express its views (Slipsheet 20-21 and particularly note
35). We submit that the Act requires union settlements, with the right accorded to the employee to
present grievances but not to participate in their
disposition.
The disposition of grievances by employee
settlements is precluded by the fact that such disposition,
without consent of the union, whether of retrospective or prospective matters, introduces the very individual bargaining which Congress intended to eliminate (supra). That settlement of grievances is 'bargaining' was clearly recognized by the Court when
it referred to the 'power to bargain concerning grievances, that is, to conclude agreements for their settlements' (Slipsheet 14). But if this 'bargaining' is
to be conducted between the employer and the employee alone, it will be no more than a mockery. As
the Court itself points out (Slipsheet 21, note 35),
the 'carrier would be free

. . .

to bargain with each

employee for whatever terms its economic power,
pitted against his own, might induce him to accept.'"
"We earnestly urge upon the Court . . . that the

collective bargaining process has always been viewed
by the participants thereto as including the settlement of grievances and, more particularly, that employers and unions have always considered that they
had the power to dispose of grievances on a large scale.
We call to the attention of the Court the agreement
Workers, National Maritime Union of America, United Electrical,
Radio & Machine Workers of America, United Automobile, Aircraft,
Agricultural Implement Workers of America, Transport Workers
Union of America, United Furniture Workers of America, United
Transport Service Employees of America, State, County & Municipal
Workers of America, Fur & Leather Workers Union.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

involved in this very case, referred to by the Court in
its opinion (Slipsheet 4, note 5), by which the union
and the railroad tried to settle all similar claims then
existing. We cannot overestimate the serious consequences of making such agreements ineffective.
They are commonly made wherever collective bargaining is established. It will be extremely disturbing to employers and employees alike when employers
discover that there is no way, short of settlement with
each employee, whereby pending disputes and the
possibility of future legal action can be eliminated."
Seldom if ever have the claims of policy been so marshalled on a single side of an issue requiring the interpretation of a statute which, at best, is sufficiently ambiguous
to permit these considerations of policy to carry the day.
The danger in "adhering" to the original decision is only
too clear; it can hardly be lessened by an explanation that
extracts meaning from the first opinion.
The results of the opinion of last Term, actual and potential, threatened not only the efficacy of the Railway
Labor Act, but generally undermined the basis for all
collective bargaining in regard to grievances. It is fair
to say that the decision created havoc in the railroad world,
for a proper adjustment of industrial relations on the railroads, as the whole course of railroad history shows, is
absolutely dependent on appropriate machinery and process of adjustment. The machinery set in motion by the
Act was stopped by the opinion. Immediately after the
Court's decision of last Term, the two divisions of the
Adjustment Board dealing with 94% of the cases under
normal circumstances completely shut down. And when
they were reopened, they functioned at only a fraction of
their normal activity. These Boards are not operating in
a vacuum. Their function is to settle by peaceful means
employee-employer disputes that would otherwise be settled by a show of power on each side. The Brotherhoods
point to the dangers cumulating in the unadjusted grievances. The Railway Labor Act becomes as ineffective as

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
661

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

it was prior to the 1934 amendments; and such a result
might well have been anticipated from the destruction of
a system that had become customary.
The Court says that it adheres to its previous opinion.
Last Term it found that it could not say that the respondents had authorized the union to settle their grievances,
and remanded the case for judicial redetermination of
the Board's decision. Whatever requirements the Court
meant to indicate as sufficient to establish authorization
from members of the union to the union, the opinion
surely conveyed doubt whether the respondents had given
authority in a "legally sufficient" way, and encouraged
the respondents' claim that they had not authorized their
collective agent to settle their grievances. The Court
now says that on the record it may be difficult for respondents to prove that they did not authorize the union
to represent them. The difficulty becomes apparent as
the Court's opinion proceeds. It disclaims that common
law agency tests of authority are to be determinative,
substitutes "custom and usage," and puts the burden of
persuasion on the respondents, having against them the
weight of the Board's "expertise," the presumption of
regularity, and their own failure to disavow the proceedings before the Board. The hypothetical factors which
the Court intimates would defeat respondents' right to
sustain this suit are the normal factors in these disputes
and are revealed by the record in this case. The way in
which these grievances were handled was "the usual
manner"; the Adjustment Board exercising its expertness
did determine that the union had authority to represent
respondents; the respondents did stand by doing nothing
while their claims were presented to the Board and determined by it. If the custom of the railroad industry rather
than the conventional law of agency is to govern, clearly
the expert, centralized Board is the appropriate tribunal
for ascertaining whether the authorized bargaining agency

676

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

is authorized to represent the grievances of its members
before the Board, and not the multitudinous courts
throughout the country with their varying understanding
and varying judgments. The gloss which the Court now
puts on its previous opinion in effect recognizes that this
is so by the extent to which it hobbles the right to secure
the revision of the Board's determination which it abstractly bestows. Thereby it undermines any justification for the notion that Congress intended to open the
courts for a redetermination of the issue of authorization.
When Congress was so miserly in granting any jurisdiction
to the' courts under the Act, it would be surprising if it
had authorized review in a field where, as the Court's new
opinion-makes clear, there was likely to be so little dispute.
Yet it is suggested that respondents are entitled to a judicial hearing to determine among other things whether they
received individual notice of the proceedings before the
Board. But the whole course and current of the railway
trade union relationships imply that the interest of the
individual member as to issues arising under the collective
agreement is entrusted to his chosen representative. To
require notice to the particular individuals affected by the
specific controversies is to disregard the presupposition of
the relationship between union members and their officials
and the actualities of practice upon which the Railway
Labor Act was based.
If the context of history into which the Railway Labor
Act must be placed for a proper interpretation reveals
that Congress was bent on creating a system complete in
itself for securing peaceful industrial relations in the railroad world, this Court should not import into that system
traditional assumptions and rules derived from a scheme
of judicially enforceable rights. The new system was devised precisely for the purpose of replacing the ordinary
judicial processes in resolving railway labor controversies,
except in the very limited instances where Congress specifically retained judicial participation. The whole statute

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.
661

FRANKFURTER,

677

J., dissenting.

reveals the restricted opportunities for resort to the courts
which Congressional policy deemed it appropriate to reserve, even though such restrictions were not formulated
with exquisite or explicit precision. By § § 3 First (p) and
9, 44 Stat. 577, 578, 585, 48 Stat. 1189, 45 U. S. C. §§ 153
and 159, Congress gave courts jurisdiction, thus showing
that the subject of judicial remedies was present in the
mind of Congress and indicating the strictly defined limits
within which they were available. In short, the policy
of the legislation, derived from a long and painful experience, is to keep labor controversies on the railroads out of
the courts except in the few specifically defined situations
where Congress has put them into the courts. Congress
has made a departure in the Railway Labor Act from the
normal availability of judicial remedies, and we ought not
to read the new law through the spectacles of the old
remedies.
A court which has held that under the Railway Labor
Act a Board's interpretation of its authority given by a
provision of the Act is final and not subject to judicial
review denies that another Board under the Act may determine finally whether those who submit controversies
on behalf of their members have authority to make such
submission so that the Board may settle such disputes,
although the determination of the controversy itself is
not reviewable unless it involves a money award. See
Switchmen's Unionv. NationalMediationBoard,320 U. S.
297. Railway Labor Act, § 9 Third, 44 Stat. 577, 585, 45
U. S. C. § 159. The answer to such a mutilating construction of the Railway Labor Act was given by this Court in
General Committee of Adjustment v. Missouri-KansasTexas R. Co., 320 U. S. 323, 333: "The inference is strong
that Congress intended to go no further in its use of the
processes of adjudication and litigation than the express
provisions of the Act indicate."

