404

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

it means the next of kin as the law has always meant
it; and dependency is only a selective factor, a condition upon recovery by any members of that class,
as it is among members of the first two classes. The

case is not therefore one in which Congress has failed
to express its obvious purpose, and in which courts
are free to supply the necessary omission; it is a case

where-whatever that purpose-it certainly did not
include what the plaintiff asserts." Poff v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 150 F. 2d 902, 905.
I do not find a persuasive answer to this analysis and
am therefore of opinion that the judgment below should
be affirmed.
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE v.
WILCOX ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 163.

Argued January 8, 1946.-Decided February 25, 1946.

1. Embezzled money does not constitute taxable income to the embezzler under § 22 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code, which defines
Icgross income" as including "gains or profits and income derived
from any source whatever." P. 408.
2. A taxable gain is conditioned upon (1) the presence of a claim
of right to the alleged gain and (2) the absence of a definite, unconditional obligation to repay or return that which would otherwise constitute a gain. P. 408.
3. Where an embezzler receives the embezzled money without any
semblance of a bona fide claim of right and remains under an unqualified duty and obligation to repay, the embezzled money does
not constitute taxable income. P. 408.
4. This conclusion is not altered by the fact that the taxpayer dissipated all of the embezzled funds, since the loss or dissipation of
embezzled money can not create taxable income to an embezzler
any more than the insolvency or bankruptcy of a borrower causes
the loans to be treated as taxable income to the borrower. P. 409.
5.The fact that a theft or loan may give rise to a deductible loss to
the owner of the money does not create taxable income to the
embezzler or the borrower. P. 409.

COMMISSIONER v. WILCOX.
404

Opinion of the Court.

6. The Tax Court's determination that the embezzled money constituted taxable income to the embezzler involved a clear-cut mistake of law, and the circuit court of appeals was justified in
reversing the Tax Court's decision. P. 410.
148 F. 2d 933, affirmed.

The Commissioner of Internal Revenue determined
that respondent was required to report as income certain
money which he had embezzled and assessed an income
tax deficiency against him. The Tax Court sustained the
Commissioner. The circuit court of appeals reversed.
148 F. 2d 933. This Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S.
701. Affirmed, p. 410.
Ralph F. Fuchs argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., Sewall
Key, Robert N. Anderson and Muriel S. Paul.
William E. Davis argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief was George B. Thatcher.
Opinion of the Court by MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, announced by MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE.
The sole issue here is whether embezzled money constitutes taxable income to the embezzler under § 22 (a)
of the Internal Revenue Code.'
The facts are stipulated. The taxpayer was employed
as a bookkeeper by a transfer and warehouse company in
Reno, Nevada, from 1937 to 1942. He was paid his salary
promptly each month when due, it not being the custom
to allow him to draw his salary in advance. In June, 1942,
the company's books were audited and it was discovered
for the first time that the taxpayer had converted $12,748.60 to his own use during 1941. This amount was
126 U. S. C. § 22 (a).
'The sum of $10,147.41 was embezzled during 1942 but that amount
is not in issue in this case.

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

composed of miscellaneous sums of money belonging to
the company which he had received and collected at various times in his capacity -as bookkeeper. He failed to
deposit this money to the credit of the company. Instead
he pocketed and withdrew payments in cash made to him
by customers, neglecting to crcdit the customers' accounts
or the company's accounts receivable with the funds
received.
The taxpayer lost practically all of this money in various
gambling houses in Reno. The company never condoned
or forgave the taking of the money and still holds him
liable to restore it. The taxpayer was convicted in a
Nevada state court in 1942 of the crime of embezzlement.
He was sentenced to serve from 2 to 14 years in prison
and was paroled in December, 1943.
The Commissioner determined that the taxpayer was
required to report the $12,748.60 embezzled in 1941 as
income received in that year and asserted a tax deficiency
of $2,978.09. The Tax Court sustained the Commissioner
but the court below reversed. 148 F. 2d 933. We
granted certiorari because of a conflict among circuits
as to the taxability of embezzled money.8
Section 22 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code defines
"gross income" to include "gains, profits, and income derived from . . .dealings in property . . . growing out of
the ownership or use of or interest in such property; also
from . . .the transaction of any business carried on for
gain or profit, or gains or profits and income derived from
any source whatever." The question thus is whether the
wrongful acquisition of funds by an embezzler should be
included in the statutory phrase "gains or profits and
8The decision below is in accord with McKnight v. Commissioner,
127 F. 2d 572 (C. C.A. 5), but is in conflict with Kurrle v. Helvering,
126 F. 2d 723 (C.C. A. 8). See also Boston Consolidated Gas Co.
v. Commissioner, 128 F. 2d 473, 476-477 (C. C. A. 1, concurring
opinion).

COMMISSIONER v. WILCOX.
404

Opinion of the Court.

income derived from any source whatever," ,thereby
constituting taxable income to the embezzler.
The Commissioner relies upon the established principle
that orthodox concepts of ownership fail to reflect the
outer boundaries of taxation. As this Court has stated,
tax liability "may rest upon the enjoyment by the taxpayer of privileges and benefits so substantial and important as to make it reasonable and just to deal with
him as if he were the owner, and to tax him on that basis."
Burnet v. Wells, 289 U. S. 670, 678. See Helvering v.
Clifford, 309 U. S. 331; Helvering v. Horst, 311 U. S. 112.
Applying that rule to this case, the Commissioner urges
that the act of appropriating the property of another
to one's own use is an exercise of a major power of ownership even though the act is consciously and entirely wrongful. As against all the world except the true owner the
embezzler is the legal owner, at least while he remains in
possession. The money or property acquired in this unlawful manner, it is said, should therefore be treated as
taxable income to the wrongdoer under § 22 (a). We
cainot agree.
Section 22 (a) is cast in broad, sweeping terms. It
"indicates the purpose of Congress to use the full measure
of its taxing power within those definable categories."
Helvering v. Clifford, supra, 334. The very essence of
taxable income, as that concept is used in § 22 (a), is
the accrual of some gain, profit or benefit to the taxpayer.
This requirement of gain, of course, must be read in its
statutory context. Not every benefit received by a taxpayer from his labor or investment necessarily renders
him taxable. Nor is mere dominion over money or property decisive in all cases. In fact, no single, conclusive
criterion has yet been found to determine in all situations
what is a sufficient gain to support the imposition of an
income tax. No more can be said in general than that all
relevant facts and circumstances must be considered. See
Magill, Taxable Income (1945).

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

For present purposes, however, it is enough to note that
a taxable gain is conditioned upon (1) the presence of a
claim of right to the alleged gain and (2) the absence of
a definite, unconditional obligation to repay or return
that which would otherwise constitute a gain. Without
some bona fide legal or equitable claim, even though it
be contingent or contested in nature, the taxpayer cannot
be said to have received any gain or profit within the reach
of § 22 (a). See North American Oil v. Burnet, 286 U. S.
417, 424. Nor can taxable income accrue from the mere
receipt of property or money which one is obliged to return
or repay to the rightful owner, as in the case of a loan
or credit. Taxable income may arise, to be sure, from the
use or in connection with the use of such property. Thus
if the taxpayer uses the property himself so as to secure
a gain or profit therefrom, he may be taxable to that extent. And if the unconditional indebtedness is cancelled
or retired, taxable income may adhere, under certain circumstances, to the taxpayer. But apart from such factors
the bare receipt of property or money wholly belonging
to another lacks the essential characteristics of a gain or
profit within the meaning of § 22 (a).
We fail to perceive any reason for applying different
principles to a situation where one embezzles or steals
money from another. Moral turpitude is not a touchstone
of taxability. The question, rather, is whether the taxpayer in fact received a statutory gain, profit or benefit.
That the taxpayer's motive may have been reprehensible
or the mode of receipt illegal has no bearing upon the
application of § 22 (a).
It is obvious that the taxpayer in this instance, in embezzling the $12,748.60, received the money without any
semblance of a bona fide claim of right. And he was at
all times under an unqualified duty and obligation to repay the money to his employer. Under Nevada law the
crime of embezzlement was complete whenever an appro-

COMMISSIONER v. WILCOX.
404

Opinion of the Court.

priation was made;

4

the employer was entitled to replevy

the money as soon as it was appropriated ' or to have it
The employer,
summarily restored by a magistrate.'
moreover, at all times held the taxpayer liable to return
the full amount. The debtor-creditor relationship was
definite and unconditional. All right, title and interest
in the money rested with the employer. The taxpayer
thus received no taxable income from the embezzlement.
This conclusion is unaltered by the fact that the taxpayer subsequently dissipated all of the embezzled funds
in gambling houses. The loss or dissipation of money
cannot create taxable income here any more than the insolvency or bankruptcy of an ordinary borrower causes
the loans to be treated as taxable income to the borrower.
See McKnight v. Commissioner, 127 F. 2d 572, 573-574.
In each instance the taxability is determined from the circumstances surrounding the receipt and holding of the
money rather than by the disastrous use to which it is
put. Likewise, the fact that a theft or loan may give
rise to a deductible loss to the owner of the money does
not create income to the embezzler or the borrower. Such
deductions, lacking any necessarily corresponding relationship to gains and being a matter of legislative grace,
fail to demonstrate the existence of taxable income.
Had the taxpayer used the embezzled money and obtained profits therefrom such profits might have been taxable regardless of the illegality involved.7 Or had his
4 State

v. Trolson, 21 Nev. 419, 32 P. 930.

5 Nevada Compiled Laws (1929) § 8681; Perkins v. Barnes, 3 Nev.
557; Studebaker Co. v. Witcher, 44 Nev. 468, 199 P. 477.
8Nevada Compiled Laws (1929) §§ 11243-11246.
7See Johnson v. United States, 318 U. S. 189; United States v.
Sullivan, 274 U. S. 259; Caldwell v. Commissioner, 135 F. 2d 488;
Chadick v. United States, 77 F. 2d 961; National City Bank v.
Helvering, 98 F. 2d 93. See also Mann v. Nash, [1932] 1 K. B. 752;
Southern v. A. B., [1933] 1 K. B. 713.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.

410

BURTON,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

employer condoned or forgiven any part of the unlawful
appropriation, the taxpayer might have been subject to
tax liability to that extent. But neither situation is
present in this proceeding and we need not explore such
possibilities. Sanctioning a tax under the circumstances
before us would serve only to give the United States an unjustified preference as to part of the money which rightfully and completely belongs to the taxpayer's employer.
The Tax Court's determination that the embezzled
money constituted taxable income to the embezzler, a
result in accord with its prior decisions on the issue,8 .
involved a clear-cut mistake of law. The court below was
therefore justified in reversing that judgment. Cf. Commissioner v. Scottish American Co., 323 U. S. 119; Dobson v. Commissioner, 320 U. S. 489; Trust of Bingham
v. Commissioner,325 U. S.365.
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

JAcKsoN took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR.

JUSTICE

BURTON, dissenting.

By holding in this case that embezzled funds do not
constitute a taxable gain to the embezzler under the Internal Revenue Code, I believe the Court misinterprets
the Code. That interpretation is contrary to the established administrative construction of the Code and to
what appears to be the intent of § 22 (a) as disclosed by
its legislative history. Section 22 (a) expressly includes
in the net income of a taxable person "gains or profits and
8 See

Estate of Spruance v. Commissioner, 43 B. T. A. 221, reversed

sub nom. McKnight v. Commissioner, 127 F. 2d 572; Kurrle v. Commissioner, Prentice-Hall 1941 B. T. A. Memorandum Decisions, par.
41,085, affirmed 126 F. 2d 723. The administrative interpretation
is to the same effect as the Tax Court's decisions. G. C. M. 16572,
XV-1 Cum. Bull. 82 (1936).

COMMISSIONER v. WILCOX.
404

BURTON, J., dissenting.

income derived -from any source whatever." 26 I. S. C.,
§ 22 (a). It is difficult to imagine a broader definition.
This Court has said of this section, "The broad sweep of
this language indicates the purpose of Congress to use the
full measure of its taxing power within those definable
categories." Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S.331, 334.
The legislative history of the section demonstrates the
congressional intent to tax not merely "lawful" gains but
all gains lawful or unlawful. Section II B of the Income
Tax Act of 1913, 38 Stat. 167, provided originally thatthe net income of a taxable person shall include gains, profits, and income derived from salaries,
wages, or compensation for personal service of whatever kind and in whatever form paid, or from professions, vocations, businesses, trade, commerce, or sales,
or dealings in property, whether real or personal,
growing out of the ownership or use of or interest in
real or personal property, also from interest, rent,
dividends, securities, or the transaction of any lawful
business carried on for gain or profit, or gainsor profits
and income derived from any source whatever, . .
(Italics supplied.)
The Revenue Act of 1916 (39 Stat. 757), § 2 (a), reenacted
this provision omitting only the word "lawful" before the
word "business" so that now the final clause, as incorporated in § 22 (a), reads, "also from interest, rent, dividends, securities, or the transaction of any business carried on for gain or profit, or gains or profits and income
derived from any source whatever . . ." (Italics supplied.) The 1916 amendment demonstrated an intent to
include gains, profits and income from any unlawful business as well as from any lawful business. It is inescapable evidence of a like intent to include unlawful as well
as lawful "gains . . .from any source whatever

"

See United States v. Sullivan, 274 U. S.259.
There have been many decisions to the effect that this
section includes such unlawful gains as those from illicit

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

traffic in liquor,' race-track bookmaking,' card playing,'
unlawful insurance policies,' illegal prize fighting pictures,5 lotteries,' graft,7 fraudulently misapplied moneys of
a client by an attorney,' "protection payments" to racketeers and ransom money paid to a kidnapper."
The majority opinion in the present case recognizes that
had "the taxpayer used the embezzled money and obtained profits therefrom such profits might have been
taxable regardless of the illegality involved." The majority opinion therefore does not exempt the embezzled
funds from taxation merely because there is "illegality
involved." The opinion reaches its result by reading into
§ 22 (a) a legislative distinction I do not find there. The
opinion limits the section to such gains, unlawful or not,
as are accompanied with "a claim of right" by the taxpayer and as are not accompanied with "a definite, unconditional obligation to repay or return that which would
otherwise constitute a gain." Believing, as I do, that
Congress in this section has sought "to use the full measure
of its taxing power," and in doing so has sought to tax
all "gains . . . from any source whatever," I am unable

to recognize an adequate basis for reading into the broad
sweep of the language the unexpressed limitation proposed in the majority opinion.
United States v. Sullivan, 274 U. S. 259. See also, Steinberg v.
United States, 14 F. 2d 564; Maddas v. Commissioner, 40 B. T. A.
572, affirmed, 114 F. 2d 548; Poznak v. Commissioner, 14 B. T. A. 727.
2M'Kenna v. Commissioner, 1 B. T. A. 326.
3 Weiner v. Commissioner, 10 B. T. A. 905.
4 Pattersonv. Anderson, 20 F. Supp. 799.
5 Rickard v. Commissioner, 15 B. T. A. 316.
0
Droge v. Commissioner, 35 B. T. A. 829; Huntington v. Commissioner, 35 B. T. A. 835; Voyer v. Commissioner, 4 B. T. A. 1192.
7 Chadick v. United States, 77 F. 2d 961, cert. denied, 296 U. S.
609.
8 United States v. Wampler, 5 F. Supp. 796.
9
Humphreys v. Commissioner, 42 B. T. A. 857, affirmed, 125 F.
2d 340.

COMMISSIONER v. WILCOX.
404

BuiRoN, J., dissenting.

The embezzler's complete possession of the embezzled
funds, his exercise of dominion over them to the extent
of disposing of every cent of them and his transfer of
possession of them to others in such a manner as to give
the recipients title to them, amounts to such an ample
enjoyment of them, use of them, dominion over them, disposition of them and receipt of benefits from them as to
make them of obvious economic value to the embezzler.
Such a readily realizable value presents no reasonable
basig for exempting these funds from taxation that would
be applied to them if earned in a lawful manner. The
"Government . . . may tax not only ownership, but any

right or privilege that is a constituent of ownership ...
Liability may rest upon the enjoyment by the taxpayer
of privileges and benefits so substantial and important as
to make it reasonable and just to deal with him as if he
were the owner, and to tax him on that basis." Burnet v.
Wells, 289 U. S. 670, 678.
In National City Bank v. Helvering, 98 F. 2d 93, 96,

L. Hand, J., writing for the court, said:
"Although taxes are public duties, attached to
the ownership of property, the state should be able
to exact their performance without being compelled
to take sides in private controversies. Possession is
in general prima facie evidence of ownership, and is
perhaps indeed the source of the concept itself, though
the time is long past when it was synonymous with it.
It would be intolerable that the tax must be assessed
against both the putative tortfeasor and the claimant; collection of the revenue cannot be delayed, nor
should the Treasury be compelled to decide when a
possessor's claims are without legal warrant."
In the present case, the embezzler concealed the embezzlement long enough to enable him to gamble away
all of the embezzled funds. He asserted, falsely to be
sure, but nonetheless positively, his right to dispose of
the funds and he did dispose of them beyond all chance

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

of their recovery. This was a use of them by him for his
own enjoyment just as fully as though he had legal title to
them. If he had made gambling or other profits from
them, he would have claimed those profits as his own and
would have been taxed on those profits. If he had gained
possession of the original funds by extortion, fraud or
usurious practices, those gains would be taxable to him
under the general language of § 22 (a). The majority
opinion, however, holds that if he gained possession of the
original funds by embezzlement then such gains are not
to be taxed to him under that language. This reads into
the section a sharp distinction between the embezzler and
defrauder, exempting the former but not the latter. In the
absence of an express declaration of such an intent by Congress, I believe that the courts are not justified in reading
such a distinction into this section.
Furthermore, where an embezzler uses embezzled funds
for his own purposes and, by concealment of the embezzlement or otherwise, deprives his victim of a corresponding
opportunity to enjoy those funds, the Code permits his
victim to deduct as a "loss," from the victim's taxable
income, the sums so embezzled." See Burnet v. Huff, 288
U. S. 156. The allowance of such a deduction suggests
the intent of Congress to transfer the liability for the tax
on those funds to the embezzler. The majority opinion
prevents such a transfer.
A point has been made of the fact that the Government's tax lien upon property of the embezzler would have
priority over the claim of the victim of the embezzlement
to recover from such property the losses which the victim
suffered by the embezzlement. This priority of the tax
lien is hardly an adequate argument to eliminate the tax
itself. At most it is an argument for Congress to modify
the tax lien in favor of the victim.
10

26 U. S. C. § 23 (e).

COMMISSIONER v. WILCOX.
404.

BURTON,

J., dissenting.

There is nothing in the Code that expressly requires, as
a condition of the existence of a taxable gain, that there
also be an absence of "a definite, unconditional obligation
to repay or return that which would otherwise constitute
a gain." In the case of National City Bank v. Helvering,
supra, p. 95, the taxpayer was taxed on bonds which he
had unlawfully withheld from the corporation of which
he was an officer. These bonds were the property of the
corporation in the sense that it could have reclaimed them
and the court said"But there are several cases in which persons have
been taxed upon property which could be recovered
from them. For example, the lender upon usurious
interest-if on an accrual basis-must include his
apparent profit in his return, though possibly he may
be allowed to deduct it as a loss if the borrower reclaims it. Barker v. Magruder, 68 App. D. C. 211, 95
F. 2d 122. Again, when a railroad collects too large
fares, the excess is income, though the passengers
have a theoretical right of restitution. Chicago, R. I.
& P. R. Co. v. Commissioner, 7 Cir., 47 F. 2d 990."
The administrative interpretation of § 22 (a) long has
been to tax the enmbezzled funds. It dates at least from
G. C. M. 16572, XV-1 Cum.Bull. (1936) 82, in which it
was expressly recommended that the profits of an embezzler "constitute taxable income in the hands of the
embezzler for Federal income tax purposes." This interpretation was followed by the Tax Court in this case and
it has been regularly followed by the Board of Tax Appeals in the past. Kurrle v. Commissioner, 1941 PrenticeHall B. T. A. Mem. Decisions, f 41,085, affirmed, 126 F.
2d 723; Estate of Spruance v. Commissioner, 43 B. T. A.
221, reversed sub nom. McKnight v. Commissioner, 127
F. 2d 572.
Because of the legislative history of §22 (a), the breadth
of the language used by Congress in that section, the attempt of Congress to use the full measure of its taxing

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

power in that section, the long established administrative
practice of holding embezzled funds to be taxable income
of the embezzler, and finally because of the arbitrary distinctions in favor of the embezzler which arise from an
opposite interpretation of the Code, I believe that embezzled funds are taxable gains as defined by Congress.
NIPPERT v. CITY OF RICHMOND.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.

No. 72. Argued November 8, 1945.-Decided February 25, 1946.
1. A municipal ordinance imposed upon persons "engaged in business
as solicitors" an annual license tax of "$50.00 and one-half of one
per centum of the gross earnings, receipts, fees or commissions for
the preceding license year in excess of $1,000." A permit from
the Director of Public Safety was a prerequisite to issuance of
the license, and violators were subject to criminal penalties. Upon
a record which showed that appellant had been soliciting in the
city for five days, without a license, orders for out-of-state confirmation and shipment into the State, appellant was convicted
and fined. Held that the ordinance as so applied violated the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 417, 434.
2. Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing Dist., 120 U. S. 489, and later
cases, followed; McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S. 33,
distinguished. Pp. 417-418, 420.
3. The tax here can not be sustained as one upon the "local incident"
of "solicitation." Whether a "local incident" related to or affecting interstate commerce may be made the subject of state taxation
depends upon considerations of constitutional policy having reference to the substantial effects, actual or potential, of the particular tax in suppressing or burdening commerce unduly. Pp. 422424.
4. The effects of the tax here in question are not only prohibitive
in an absolute sense, in many applications, but are discriminatory
in favor of the local merchant as against the out-of-state one.
P. 431.
(a) The ordinance is not saved by the fact that it is neither prohibitive nor discriminatory on its face; nor by the fact that it is
applicable also to all local distributors operating similarly. P. 431.

