OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Counsel for Parties.

HOLMBERG

ET AL.

v. ARMBRECHT

327 U. S.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 505.

Argued February 1, 1946.-Decided February 25, 1946.

1. Decision of a suit in a federal court to enforce a federally created
equitable right is not controlled by the statute of limitations of the
State of the forum. Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, 326 U. S. 99,
distinguished. Accordingly, a class suit by creditors of a joint stock
land bank to enforce the liability imposed upon shareholders of the
bank by § 16 of the Federal Farm Loan Act is not barred by the
state statute of limitations. P. 394.
2. Statutes of limitations are not controlling measures of equitable
relief, but have been drawn upon by equity solely for the light they
may shed in determining that which is decisive for the chancellor's
intervention, namely, whether the plaintiff has inexcusably slept
on his rights so as to make a decree against the defendant unfair.
P. 396.
150 F. 2d 829, reversed.

From a judgment for the plaintiffs in a suit to enforce
a statutory liability of stockholders of a farm loan bank,
the defendants appealed. The circuit court of appeals
reversed. 150 F. 2d 829. This Court granted certiorari.
326 U. S. 712. Reversed and remanded, p. 398.
Clarence Fried argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the brief was Edmund Burke, Jr.

Edgar M. Sousa argued the cause and filed a brief for

respondents.
Briefs were filed as amici curiae by Solicitor General
McGrath, Robert L. Stern, Roger S. Foster, Milton V.
Freeman and Arnold R. Ginsburg for the United States,
and by Saul J. Lantz and Isadore H. Cohen for the
Trustees of Central States Electric Corporation, urging

reversal.

HOLMBERG v. ARMBRECHT.
392

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit in equity by petitioners on behalf of themselves and all other creditors of the Southern Minnesota
Joint Stock Land Bank of Minneapolis to enforce the
liability imposed upon shareholders of the Bank by § 16
of the Federal Farm Loan Act, equal to one hundred percent of their holdings. 39 Stat. 360, 374, 12 U. S. C. § 812.'
The Bank closed its doors in May, 1932. Its debts exceeded its assets by more than $3,000,000, the amount
of its outstanding stock. Suit was accordingly brought
in the United States District Court for the District of
Minnesota for determining and collecting the assessment
due under § 16. Holmberg v. Southern Minnesota Joint
Stock Land Bank, 10 F. Supp. 795. Armbrecht, a New
York stockholder, was sued there. The suit failed on procedural grounds and was dismissed without prejudice to
further action. Holmberg v. Anchell, 24 F. Supp. 594,
598. Not until 1942, so it is alleged, did petitioners learn
that Jules S. Bache had concealed his ownership of one
hundred shares of the Bank stock under the name of
Charles Armbrecht. The present action against Armbrecht and Bache was begun in the Southern District of
New York in November, 1943. Bache died during pendency of the suit and his executors were substituted as
parties.
The respondents made two defenses: (1) they invoked
a New York statute of limitation barring such an action
after ten years, New York Civil Practice Act, § 53; (2)
they urged laches, claiming that petitioners had unduly
1 "Shareholders of every joint stock land bank organized under this

Act shall be held individually responsible, equally and ratably, and
not one for another, for all contracts, debts, and engagements of such
bank to the extent of the amount of stock owned by them at the par
value thereof, in addition to the amount paid in and represented by
their shares."

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

delayed commencement of the suit. Neither defense was
sustained in the District Court, and judgment went against
the respondents. The judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 150 F. 2d 829. That court did
not reach the defense of laches because it held, relying on
Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, 326 U. S. 99, that the New
York statute of limitation was controlling and that the
mere lapse of ten years barred the action. Since the case
raises a question of considerable importance in enforcing
liability under federal equitable enactments, we brought
it here for review. 326 U. S. 712.
In Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, supra, we ruled that
when a State statute bars recovery of a suit in a State court
on a State-created right, it likewise bars recovery of such
a suit on the equity side of a federal court brought there
merely because it was "between Citizens of different
States" under Art. III, § 2 of the Constitution. The
amenability of such a federal suit to a State statute of
limitation cannot be regarded as a problem in terminology,
whereby the practical effect of a statute of limitation
would turn on the content which abstract analysis may
attribute to "substance" and "procedure." We held, on
the contrary, that a statute of limitation is a significant
part of the legal rules which determine the outcome of
a litigation. As such, it is as significant in enforcing a
State-created right by an exclusively equitable remedy as
it is in an action at law. But in the York case we pointed
out with almost wearisome reiteration, in reaching this
result, that we were there concerned solely with Statecreated rights. For purposes of diversity suits a federal
court is, in effect, "only another court of the State."
Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, supra, at 108. The considerations that urge adjudication by the same law in all
courts within a State when enforcing a right created by
that State are hardly relevant for determining the rules
which bar enforcement of an equitable right created not
by a State legislature but by Congress.

HOLMBERG v. ARMBRECHT.
392

395

Opinion of the Court.

If Congress explicitly puts a limit upon the time for
enforcing a right which it created, there is an end of the
matter. The Congressional statute of limitation is definitive. See, e. g., Herget v. CentralBank Co., 324 U. S. 4.
The rub comes when Congress is silent. Apart from penal
enactments, Congress has usually left the limitation of
time for commencing actions under national legislation
to judicial implications. As to actions at law, the silence
of Congress has been interpreted to mean that it is federal
policy to adopt the local law of limitation. See Campbell
v. Haverhill, 155 U. S. 610; ChattanoogaFoundry & Pipe
Works v. Atlanta, 203 U. S. 390; Rawlings v. Ray, 312
U. S. 96. The implied absorption of State statutes of limitation within the interstices of the federal enactments is
a phase of fashioning remedial details where Congress has
not spoken but left matters for judicial determination
within the general framework of familiar legal principles.
See Board of Comm'rs v. United States, 308 U. S. 343,
349-50,351-52.
The present case concerns not only a federally-created
right but a federal right for which the sole remedy is in
equity. Wheeler v. Greene, 280 U. S. 49; Christopherv.
Brusselback, 302 U. S. 500; Russell v. Todd, 309 U. S.
280, 285. And so we have the reverse of the situation in
Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, supra. We do not have the
duty of a federal court, sitting as it were as a court of a
State, to approximate as closely as may be State law in
order to vindicate without discrimination a right derived
solely from a State. We have the duty of federal courts,
sitting as national courts throughout the country, to apply their own principles in enforcing an equitable right
created by Congress. When Congress leaves to the federal
courts the formulation of remedial details, it can hardly
expect them to break with historic principles of equity in
the enforcement of federally-created equitable rights.

,396

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Traditionally and for good reasons, statutes of limitation are not controlling measures of equitable relief.
Such statutes have been drawn upon by equity solely for
the light they may shed in determining that which is decisive for the chancellor's intervention, namely, whether
the plaintiff has inexcusably slept on his rights so as to
make a decree against the defendant unfair. See.Russell
v. Todd, supra, at 289. "There must be conscience, good
faith, and reasonable diligence, to call into action the
powers of the court." McKnight v. Taylor, 1 How. 161,
168. A federal court may not be bound by a State statute
of limitation and yet that court may dismiss a suit where
the plaintiffs' "lack of diligence is wholly unexcused; and
both the nature of the claim and the situation of the parties
was such as to call for diligence . . ." Benedict v. City of
New York, 250 U. S. 321, 328. A suit in equity may fail
though "not barred by the act of limitations . . ." McKnight v. Taylor, supra;Alsop v. Riker, 155 U. S. 448.
Equity eschews mechanical rules; it depends on flexibility. Equity has acted on the principle that "laches
is not like limitation, a mere matter of time; but principally a question of the inequity of permitting the claim
to be enforced-an inequity founded upon some change
in the condition or relations of the property or the parties."
Galliher v. Cadwell, 145 U. S. 368, 373; see Southern Pacific Co. v. Bogert, 250 U. S. 483, 488-89. And so, a suit
in equity may lie though a comparable cause of action at
law would be barred. If want of due diligence by the
plaintiff may make it unfair to pursue the defendant,
fraudulent conduct on the part of the defendant may
have prevented the plaintiff from being diligent and may
make it unfair to bar appeal to equity because of mere
lapse of time.
Equity will not lend itself to such fraud and historically
has relieved from it. It bars a defendant from setting up

HOLMBERG v. ARMBRECHT.
392

Opinion of the Court.

such a fraudulent defense, as it interposes against other
forms of fraud. And so this Court long ago adopted as
its own the old chancery rule that where a plaintiff has
been injured by fraud and "remains in ignorance of it
without any fault or want of diligence or care on his part,
the bar of the statute does not begin to run until the fraud
is discovered, though there be no special circumstances or
efforts on the part of the party committing the fraud to
conceal it from the knowledge of the other party." Bailey
v. Glover, 21 Wall. 342, 348; and see Exploration Co. v.
UnitedStates, 247 U. S. 435; Sherwood v. Sutton, 5 Mason
143.
This equitable doctrine is read into every federal statute
of limitation. If the Federal Farm Loan Act had an explicit statute of limitation for bringing suit under § 16,
the time would not have begun to run until after petitioners had discovered, or had failed in reasonable diligence to discover, the alleged deception by Bache which
is the basis of this suit. Bailey v. Glover, supra;Exploration Co. v. United States, supra; United States v. Diamond Coal Co., 255 U. S. 323, 333. It would be too
incongruous to confine a federal right within the bare
terms of a State statute of limitation unrelieved by the
settled federal equitable doctrine as to fraud, when even
a federal statute in the same terms would be given the
mitigating construction required by that doctrine.
We conclude that the decision in the York case is inapplicable to the enforcement of federal equitable rights.
The federal doctrine applied in Bailey v. Glover, supra,
and in the series of cases following it, governs. When the
liability, if any, accrued in this case, cf. Rawlings v. Ray,
supra, at 98, and whether the petitioners are chargeable
with laches, see Foster v. Mansfield, C. & L. M. R. Co.,
146 U. S. 88, 99; Southern Pacific Co. v Bogert, supra, at
488, are questions as to which we imply no views. We

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE, J.,

concurring.

327 U. S.

leave them for determination by the Circuit Court of Appeals to which the case is remanded.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring.

I agree with the result and with the opinion, reserving
however any intimation, explicit or implied, as to the full
scope to which the doctrine of Guaranty Trust Co. v. York,
326 U. S. 99, may be applied in diversity cases. Many of
the considerations now stated by the Court for refusing to
extend that doctrine to cases concerning federally created
rights, relating to the flexibility of remedies in equity
either to cut down or to extend the state statutory period
of limitations, seemed to me to be applicable whenever
a federal court might be asked to extend the aid of its
equity arm, whether in its diversity jurisdiction or other.
The ruling in the York case however may be accepted
generally for diversity cases and, moreover, rejected for
extension to cases of this sort, without indicating that
there may not be some cases even of diversity jurisdiction
to which federal courts may not be required to apply it.
With this reservation I join in the Court's action.

