686

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

any act of Congress affords a remedy to any person, the
mere assertion by a plaintiff that he is entitled to such a
remedy cannot be said to satisfy jurisdictional requirements. Hence we think that the courts below rightly
decided that the district court was without jurisdiction
because no cause of action under the Constitution or laws
of the United States was stated.
The only effect of holding, as the Court does, that jurisdiction is conferred by the pleader's unfounded assertion
that he is one who can have a remedy for damages arising
under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments is to transfer to
the federal court the trial of the allegations of trespass
to person and property, which is a cause of action arising
wholly under state law. For even though it be decided
that petitioners have no right to damages under the Constitution, the district court will be required to pass upon
the question whether the facts stated by petitioners give
rise to a cause of action for trespass under state law. See
Hum v. Oursler, 289 U. S. 238.
NORTH AMERICAN COMPANY v. SECURITIES &
EXCHANGE COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 1. Argued November 15, 1945.-Decided April 1, 1946.
1. The enactment of § 11 (b) (1) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to require each public utility holding company engaged in
interstate commerce to limit its operations to a single integrated
public utility system, was within the power of Congress under the
commerce clause of the Constitution. Pp. 700-707.
(a) While the ownership of securities, considered separately and
abstractly, may not be commerce, the ownership of securities of
operating companies has a real and intimate relation to the interstate activities of public utility holding companies and cannot be

NORTH AMERICAN CO. v. S. E. C.
686

687

Syllabus.

effectively divorced therefrom; such ownership is the generating
force of the constant interstate flow of reports, letters, equipment,
securities, accounts, instructions and money which constitute the
life blood of holding companies and allow abuses to be effectuated.
P. 702.
(b) Congress may impose relevant conditions and requirements
on those who use the channels of interstate commerce, in order that
those channels will not become the means of promoting or spreading
evil, whether of a physical, moral or economic nature. P. 705.
(c) The fact that an evil may involve a corporation's financial
practices, its business structure or its security portfolio does not
detract from the power of Congress under the commerce clause to
promulgate rules in order to destroy that evil-once it is established
that the evil concerns or affects commerce in more States than one.
P. 706.
(d) Congress having found that economic evils resulting from
unintegrated public utility holding company systems were polluting
the channels of interstate commerce and took the form of transactions occurring in and concerning more States than one, it had power
under the commerce clause to attempt to remove those evils by
ordering the holding companies to divest themselves of the securities
that made such evils possible. P. 706.
2. An order of the Securities and Exchange Commission requiring a
public utility holding company to divest itself of its scattered subsidiaries and to confine its operations to a single integrated public
utility system, pursuant to § 11 (b) (1) of the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935, does not take property without just compensation in violation of the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
Pp. 707-710.
(a) Congress having determined that the economic advantages of
a holding company at the top of an unintegrated public-utility
system are not commensurate with the resulting economic disadvantages, the fact that valuable interests may be affected does not,
by itself, render that determination invalid under the due process
clause. P. 708.
(b) Since the Act does not contemplate or require the dumping
or forced liquidation of securities on the market for cash, but requires
any divestment or reorganization plan to be fair and equitable and
to be carefully scrutinized by both the Commission and the enforcing court-thus enabling the assertion and protection of all shareholders' rights-it cannot be said, in the absence of any alleged
unfair plan of divestment, that the shareholders are adversely
affected from a constitutional standpoint by the operation of § 11
(b) (1). P. 709.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Statement of the Case.

327 U: S.

3. Congress having decided, within the scope of its constitutional
power and discretion, that it is necessary to reorganize existing
public utility holding company systems, this Court cannot question
the appropriateness or propriety of its decision, even though other
sections of the Act provide for the regulation of future transactions
of the kinds that were found to give birth to many of the evils about
which Congress was concerned.' P. 710.
4. Even though a particular holding company may not have engaged
in any of the evils enumerated in § 1 (b) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, this does not make the application of § 11
(b) (1) to it unconstitutional, since the power of Congress to
legislate generally in order to prevent potential injury to the national
economy from becoming a reality is not limited by proof of the
existence of evils in each particular situation. P. 710.
5. In the light of the facts stated in the opinion and particularly
petitioner's extensive holdings of the securities of its subsidiaries
and the penetration of local managements with men selected by or
historically related to petitioner, the Commission was justified in
treating petitioner not as engaged solely in the business of acquiring
and holding stocks and other securities of its subsidiaries for investment but as a "holding company" possessing domination over its
subsidiaries or the power to dominate them when and if necessary,
even though petitioner's active intervention in the affairs of its
subsidiaries has been of a limited character and operational policies
have been left entirely to local management. Pp. 692, 693.
6. Petitioner clearly is engaged in interstate commerce, since it is the
nucleus of an empire of corporations covering 17 States and the
District of Columbia, its influence and domination permeate the
entire system, the mails and instrumentalities of interstate commerce
are vital to the functioning of this system, and several of its
subsidiaries admittedly are engaged in interstate commerce.
P. 694.
7. The power of the Commission to deny exemption under § 3 (a) (1)
to a predominantly local holding company does not mean that a
holding company having no relation whatever to interstate commerce may be subjected to § 11 (b) (1) or to any other provisions
of the Act. P. 699.
133 F. 2d 148, affirmed.

After appropriate administrative proceedings under

§ 11 (b) (1) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act
of 1935, the Securities and Exchange Commission entered

NORTH AMERICAN CO. v. S. E. C.
686

Opinion of the Court.

orders limiting petitioner's properties' to those Which, in
the judgment of the Commission, complied with the standards of that section and requiring it to sever relationship
with all of its other properties. 11 S. E. C. 194; 11 S. E. C.
715. On petition for review, the Circuit Court of Appeals
sustained the Commission's order. 133 F. 2d 148. This
Court granted certiorari. 318 U. S. 750. See also 320
U. S. 708. Affirmed, p. 711.
CharlesE. Hughes, Jr.argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
Solicitor General McGrath and Paul A. Freund argued
the cause for respondent. With Mr. Freund on the brief
were Solicitor General Fahy, John F. Davis, Milton V.
Freeman, Roger S. Foster and David K. Kadane.
Arthur A. Ballantine,John F. MacLane, Wilkie Bushby
and Joseph Schreiber filed a brief, as amici curiae, in
support of petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Congress enacted the Public Utility Holding Company
Act of 1935, 49 Stat. 803, in order to correct grave abuses
which it had found in the use of the holding company
device in the nation's electric and gas utility industries.
This Court in Electric Bond & Share Co. v. Securities &
Exchange Commission, 303 U. S. 419, held constitutional
the various provisions of the Act relating to the registration of holding companies as therein defined. In this case
we are called upon to determine the constitutionality of
§ 11 (b) (1) of the Act, authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to act to bring about the geographic
and economic integration of holding company systems.
Specifically, we must decide whether this requirement falls
within the power of Congress to regulate commerce among

690

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

the several states and whether it violates the due process
clause of the Fifth Amendment.
The North American Company, the petitioner, is a
holding company within the meaning of the Act, § 2 (a)
(7), and is registered as such with the Securities and Exchange Commission.' The Commission instituted appropriate administrative proceedings against North American
under § 11 (b) (1), the provisions of which apply to registered holding companies. As a result, the Commission
entered orders limiting North American's properties to
those Which, in the Commission's judgment, complied with
the standards of § 11 (b) (1) and compelling it to sever
relationships with all its other properties. The court
below, after affirming the orders of the Commission on a
statutory level, rejected North American's constitutional
objections. 133 F. 2d 148. Only these constitutional
issues are now before us.
As was the situation in the Electric Bond & Share Co.
case, North American is clearly engaged in activities which
bring it within the ambit of congressional authority.
North American is a typical utility holding company. It
is the pinnacle of a great pyramid of corporations, the
majority of which operate electric and gas utility properties. These properties are scattered throughout the
United States, many of them serving large cities and contiguous territories.' Electric energy is transmitted across
state lines by numerous companies in the pyramid or
' North American registered with the Commission on February 25,
1937, reserving its right to challenge the constitutionality of § 11 (b)
(1) and other portions of the Act. See Landis v. North American Co.,
299 U. S. 248, 251-252; Electric Bond & Share Co. v. Securities &
Exchange Commission, 303 U. S. 419, 435.
2 Holding Company Act Releases Nos. 3405 and 3629.
[See 11
C.
715.]
S. E. C. 194; 11 S. E.
8
Federal Trade Commission Report to the Senate, "Utility Corporations," Sen. Doc. 92, Part 72-A, 70th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 107110, 706-716.

NORTH AMERICAN CO. v. S. E. C.
686

Opinion of the Court.

system.' As of December 31, 1940, there were some eighty
corporations in the system, with an aggregate capitalized
value in excess of $2,300,000,000. Organized in New Jersey
in 1890 and maintaining business headquarters in New
York City, North American maintains direct or indirect
interests in these corporations through the medium of
stock ownership. It is that medium that binds the system
together.
North American owns stock directly in ten of the corporations, holding 79% or more of the common stock of
eight of them and 17.71% and 19.2%, respectively, of the
voting securities of the other two. Three of these direct
subsidiaries are registered holding companies: (1) Union
Electric Company of Missouri, operating in and around
St. Louis, Mo., and with subsidiaries operating in Illinois
and Iowa as well; (2) Washington Railway and Electric
Company, with subsidiaries operating in the District of
Columbia and adjacent territory in Virginia and Maryland; and (3) North American Light & Power Company,
operating extensive systems in Kansas, Missouri, Illinois
and Iowa in addition to being the parent of several registered holding companies.
Four of the direct subsidiaries of North American are
operating companies: (1) Cleveland Electric Illuminating
Company, serving Cleveland, Ohio, and surrounding territory; (2) Pacific Gas & Electric Company, serving large
areas in California; (3) The Detroit Edison Company,
serving Detroit and vicinity; and (4) Wisconsin Electric
Power Company, a holding company with subsidiaries
operating an integrated electric utility system in
Wisconsin and Michigan.
' In 1929 and 1930, companies in the North American system trans-

mitted 9.3% and 7.7%, respectively, of the total amount of electric
energy transmitted across state boundaries in the United States.
Federal Trade Commission Report, supra, note 3, p. 43, Table 13.

692

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U.S.

The other three direct subsidiaries are (1) North American Utilities Securities Corporation, an investment trust;
(2) West Kentucky Coal Company, which owns and operates a coal mine in Kentucky and sells coal in interstate
commerce; and (3) 60 Broadway Building Corporation,
which owns the office building in New York City where
petitioner has its offices.
The various companies in the North American system
perform a variety of functions from electric and gas service to railroad transportation, warehousing and amusement park operations. All told, they conduct business in
seventeen states and the District of Columbia. Electric
service alone is provided for more than 3,000,000 customers
in an area of roughly 165,000 square miles.
North American claims that its sole and continuous
business has been that of acquiring and holding for investment purposes stocks and other securities of the subsidiaries, its relationship being essentially that of "a large
investor seeking to promote the sound development of his
investment." Active intervention on North American's
part in the activities of these companies, it is true, has
been of a limited character. Operations and operational
policies, the Commission found, have been left entirely to
the local managements. Nor has North American sold
these subsidiaries any supplies or engineering service.
This lack of active intervention, however, is indecisive.
It appears to have resulted in large part from North
American's satisfaction with the local managements of
the subsidiaries and from the fact that the local managements have often included men selected by or historically related to North American. See Detroit Edison Co.
v. Securities & Exchange Commission, 119 F. 2d 730, 734735; Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Securities & Exchange
Commission, 127 F. 2d 378, 383-384. The Commission
was thus warranted in considering the harmonization of
local policies with those of North American as a fact, the

NORTH AMERICAN CO. v. S. E. C.
686

Opinion of the Court.

absence of conflicts making affirmative action by North
American unnecessary. But it does not follow that North
American's domination of its system was any less real or
effective. Historical ties and associations, combined with
strategic holdings of stock, can on occasion serve as a
potent substitute for the more obvious modes of control.
See Southern Pacific Co. v. Bogert, 250 U. S. 483, 491-492;
Natural Gas Co. v. Slattery, 302 U. S. 300, 307-308.
Domination may spring as readily from subtle or unexercised power as from arbitrary imposition of command.
To conclude otherwise is to ignore the realities of intercorporate relationships. Rochester Telephone Corp. v.
United States, 307 U. S. 125, 145-146. In light of the
extensiveness of North American's holdings of the securities of its subsidiaries and the penetration of local managements with men of North American background, the
Commission was justified in treating North American as
possessing domination over its subsidiaries or the power
to dominate them when and if necessary.'
But North American in some respects has actually intervened in the activities of its subsidiaries. It has affirmatively participated in and dominated their financing
operations.6 So completely has it taken over the planning
and handling of the various flotations of securities that
North American urged before the Commission, though in
vain, that the subsidiaries were incompetent to handle
5 As to only two of the subsidiaries, the Detroit Edison Company
and the Pacific Gas & Electric Company, has a claim been raised that
they were not controlled by or subject to a controlling influence of
North American. The Commission rejected both claims after hearings
and its determinations were sustained upon appeal. Detroit Edison
Co. v. Securities & Exchange Commission, 119 F. 2d 730, cert. denied,
314 U. S. 618; Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Securities & Exchange
Commission, 127 F. 2d 378, affirmed on rehearing by equally divided
court, 139 F. 2d 298, affirmed by equally divided Court, 324 U. S. 826.
6 See Federal Trade Commission Report, supra, note 3, p. 347.

694

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

such matters and that it would be highly uneconomical
for them to attempt to do so. As the Commission noted,
the ability to dominate this financing and to control the
flow, through underwriting channels, of millions of dollars
of securities has been of great value and benefit to North
American, in addition to being of aid to the subsidiaries.
North American has also provided the subsidiaries with
advisory and consultative facilities in relation to management problems; and intercompany committees have been
created to serve as clearing houses for technical and
accounting information.

The interstate character of North American and its
subsidiaries is readily apparent from the Commission's
survey of their activities. North American is more than a
mere investor in its subsidiaries. See Northern Securities
Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197, 353-354. It is the
nucleus of a far-flung empire of corporations extending
from New York to California and covering seventeen
states and the District of Columbia. Its influence and
domination permeate the entire system and frequently
evidence themselves in affirmative ways. The mails and
the instrumentalities of interstate commerce are vital to
the functioning of this system. They have more than a
casual or incidental relationship. Cf. Ware & Leland v.
Mobile County, 209 U. S. 405; Blumenstock Bros. v. Curtis Pub. Co., 252 U. S. 436; Federal Baseball Club v.
National League, 259 U. S. 200. Without them, North
American would be unable to float the various security
issues of its own or of its subsidiaries, thereby selling
securities to residents of every state in the nation. Without them, North American would be unable to exercise
and maintain the influence arising from its large stock
holdings, receiving notices and reports, sending proxies to
stockholders' meetings, collecting dividends and interest,
and transmitting whatever instructions and advice may
be necessary. Nor could North American maintain its

NORTH AMERICAN CO. v. S. E. C.
686

Opinion of the Court.

other relationships and contacts with its own subsidiaries
without the use of the mails and facilities of interstate
commerce. Such interstate commercial transactions involve the very essence of North American's business. See
International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91. They
enable it "to promote the sound development" of its investments from its headquarters in New York City. In
short, they are commerce which concerns more states than
one. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 194; Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 46; Minnesota Rate
Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 398. As stated by this Court in
Associated Press v. Labor Board, 301 U. S. 103, 128, "Interstate communication of a business nature, whatever the
means of such communication, is interstate commerce
regulable by Congress under the Constitution."
Moreover, North American concedes that four of its
direct utility subsidiaries, Union Electric Company of
Missouri, Washington Railway and Electric Company,
North American Light & Power Company and Wisconsin
Electric Power Company, transmit energy across state
lines and hence are engaged in interstate commerce. It
further concedes that its subsidiary West Kentucky Coal
Company is engaged in interstate commerce, although
contending that the remaining five direct subsidiaries are
not so engaged. In view of North American's very substantial stock interest and its domination as to the affairs
of its subsidiaries, as well as its latent power to exercise
even more affirmative infltence, it cannot hide behind the
facade of a mere investor. Their acts are its acts in the
sense that what is interstate as to them is interstate as
to North American. These subsidiaries thus accentuate
and add materially to the interstate character of North
American. Electric Bond & Share Co. v. Securities &
Exchange Commission, supra,440. They make even more
inescapable the conclusion that North American bears not
only a "highly important relation to interstate commerce

696

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

and the national economy," id., p. 441, but is actually engaged in interstate commerce. It is thus subject to appropriate regulatory measures adopted by Congress under
its commerce power.
Turning to § 11 (b) (1) ' and its constitutional impact
upon North American, we find that it directs the Commission to apply its provisions to holding companies engaged
in interstate commerce. In essence, it confines the operations of each holding company system to a single inte7

"Sec. 11. (a) ...

"(b) It shall be the duty of the Commission, as soon as practicable
after January 1, 1938:
"(1) To require by order, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that each registered holding company, and each subsidiary company thereof, shall take such action as the Commission shall find
necessary to limit the operations of the holding-company system of
which such company is a part to a single integrated public-utility
system, and to such other businesses as are reasonably incidental, or
economically necessary or appropriate to the 'operations of such integrated public-utility system: Provided, however, That the Commission
shall permit a registered holding company to continue to control one
or more additional integrated public-utility systems, if, after notice
and opportunity for hearing, it finds that"(A) Each of such additional systems cannot be operated as
an independent system without the loss of substantial economies
which can be secured by the retention of control by such holding
company of such system;
"(B) All of such additional systems are located in one State,
or in adjoining States, or in a contiguous foreign country; and
"(C) The continued combination of such systems under the
control of such holding company is not so large (considering
the state of the art and the area or region affected) as to impair
the advantages of localized management, efficient operation, or the
effectiveness of regulation.
The Commission may permit as reasonably incidental, or economically
necessary or appropriate to the operations of one or more integrated
public-utility systems the retention of an interest in any business
(other than the business of a public-utility company as such) which
the Commission shall find necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors or consumers and not detrimental to the proper functioning of such system or systems."

NORTH AMERICAN CO. v. S. E. C.
686

Opinion of the Court.

grated public utility system with provision for the retention of additional systems only if they are relatively
small, located close to the single system and unable to
operate economically under separate management without the loss of substantial economies; in addition, other
holdings may be retained only if their retention is related
to the operations of the retained utility properties.
These requirements of § 11 (b) (1) apply only to registered holding companies. A holding company, by statutory definition, is a company that controls or possesses a
controlling influence over an electric or gas utility company. § 2 (a) (7). A holding of 10% or more of the
outstanding voting securities of such a utility company is
presumed to be sufficient to constitute such a relationship,
but this presumption may be rebutted by proof before
the Commission of a lack of control or controlling influence. Accordingly, a company that is a mere investor in
utility securities and that does not control or possess a
controlling influence over the utility companies need not
comply with § 11 (b) (1).
A holding company as so defined must register and hence
must obey the commands of § 11 (b) (1) if it uses the
mails or the instrumentalities of interstate commerce directly or through its subsidiaries in the operation of its
business.' Thus a holding company may sell, transport
or distribute gas or electric energy in-interstate commerce.
§ 4 (a) (1). It may use the mails or interstate commerce
to negotiate or perform service, sales or construction con8

Section 4 (b) compels holding companies to register if they have

outstanding any security which has been distributed by the use of
the mails or commerce, or offered for sale by like means, subsequent
to January 1, 1925, and if that security is held on October 1, 1935,
by any person not a resident of the state in which the holding company is organized. We need not here consider the force of this section,
however, since North American and, other interstate holding companies are forced to register by reason of the provisions of §.4 (a).

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

tracts with other companies in the system. § 4 (a) (2).
It may use the mails or interstate commerce to distribute
or make public offerings for the sale or exchange of securities of its own or of other system companies. § 4 (a) (3).
It may use the mails or interstate commerce to acquire
securities or utility assets of other companies. § 4 (a) (4).
It may engage in a business in interstate commerce.
§ 4 (a) (5). Or it may own or control securities of subsidiaries that do any of the foregoing acts. § 4 (a) (6).
Moreover, § 2 (a) (28) defines "interstate commerce," as
used in these and other provisions of the Act, to mean
"trade, commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication among the several States or between any
State and any place outside thereof."
By making these enumerated interstate transactions
unlawful unless the holding company registers with the
Commission and by extending § 11 (b) (1) to registered
holding companies, Congress has effectively applied
§ 11 (b) (1) to those holding companies that axe in fact
in the stream of interstate activity and that affect commerce in more states than one. Congress has further declared in § 1 (c) that all the provisions of the Act, thus
including § 11 (b) (1), shall be interpreted to meet the
problems and remove the evils connected with public
utility holding companies "which are engaged in interstate commerce or in activities which directly affect or
burden interstate commerce . . ." Section 11 (b) (1) is
thus clearly and unmistakably applicable to holding
companies engaged in interstate commerce.
Not all holding companies that are engaged in interstate activities, however, must necessarily comply with
§ 11 (b) (1). By the terms of § 3 (a) (1), if a holding
company and all of its subsidiaries are predominantly
intrastate in character and carry on their business substantially in a single state in which such holding company
and every subsidiary thereof are organized, the Commis-

NORTH AMERICAN CO. v. S. E. C.
686

699

Opinion of the Court.

sion may grant an exemption from any provision of the
Act "unless and except insofar as it finds the exemption
detrimental to the public interest or the interest of
investors or consumers
The power of the Commission under the "unless and
except" clause of § 3 (a) to deny an exemption to a predominantly local holding company does not mean, as
North American urges, that a holding company having
no relation whatever to interstate commerce may be subjected to § 11 (b) (1) or to any other provision of the Act.
The Commission, in denying an exemption under this
clause, is bound by the policy set forth in § 1 (c) to act so
as to eliminate evils connected with holding companies
"engaged in interstate commerce or in activities which
directly affect or burden interstate commerce . . ." A
holding company predominantly local in character may
nevertheless engage in activities affecting or burdening
interstate commerce to the detriment of the public interest or the interests of investors and consumers. Only
in such a case could the Commission properly deny an
exemption under the "unless and except" clause.' This
problem, however, is academic so far as North American
is concerned. Like most public utility holding companies, North American is engaged in interstate commerce directly and through its subsidiaries. It can lay
no claim to a predominantly intrastate character; as to it,
§ 3 (a) (1) is wholly inapplicable. The possibility that
the Commission might erroneously fail to exempt some
truly local holding company from the provisions of § 11
(b) (1) cannot negative the plain fact that § 11 (b) (1)
9 The Commission has recognized the fact that the declaration of
policy in § I (c) must be considered in granting or denying exemptions
under § 3 (a) to predominantly intrastate holding companies. See
In re Niagara Hudson Power Corporation, Holding Company Act
Release No. 5115; In re Long Island Lighting Company, Holding
Company Act Release No. 5746.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

was designed to apply and does apply to holding companies engaged in interstate commerce. North American
is therefore subject to its terms.
The crucial constitutional issue, so far as the commerce
clause is concerned, resolves itself into the query whether
Congress may validly require holding companies engaged
in interstate commerce to dispose of their security holdings
and to confine their activities in accordance with the standards of § 11 (b) (1). In urging the negative answer to
this query, North American relies upon the settled doctrine that the federal commerce power extends to intrastate activities only where those activities "so affect interstate commerce, or the exertion of the power of Congress
over it, as to make regulation of them appropriate means
to the attainment of a legitimate end, the effective execution of the granted power to regulate interstate commerce." UnitedStates v. Wrightwood Dairy Co., 315 U. S.
110, 119. See also Santa Cruz FruitPacking Co. v. Labor
Board, 303 U. S. 453, 466; United States v. Darby, 312
U. S. 100, 118-123; Wickard v. Filburn,317 U. S. 111, 122124. It is said that the ownership by North American of
securities of other system companies is not in itself commerce, interstate or intrastate, and that the right to own
or retain property is characteristically governed by state
laws, the Federal Government having no concern with
such matters except as an incident to the due exercise of
one of its granted powers. North American denies that
the necessary relationship between the ownership of securities and interstate commerce is self-evident or that
it has been found as a fact by Congress, the Commission
or any court. The absence of this relationship, it is
concluded, causes § 11 (b) (1) to fall.
This argument, however, misconceives not only the
power of Congress over interstate commerce but also
the basic nature of public utility holding companies and
the effect that stock ownership has upon their activities.

NORTH AMERICAN CO. v. S. E. C.
686

Opinion of the Court.

The dominant characteristic of a holding company is the
ownership of securities by which it is possible to control or
substantially to influence the policies and management
of one or more operating companies in a particular field of
enterprise."° To be sure, other devices may be utilized to
effectuate control, such as voting trusts, interlocking
directors and officers, the control of proxies, management
contracts and the like. But the concentrated ownership
of voting securities is the prime method of achieving control, constituting a more fundamental part of holding companies than of other types of business. Public utility
holding companies are thereby able to build their gas
and electric utility systems, often gerrymandered in such
ways as to bear no relation to economy of operation or to
effective regulation. The control arising from this ownership of securities also allows such holding companies to
exact unreasonable fees, commissions and other charges
from their subsidiaries, to make undue profits from the
handling of the issue, sale and exchange of securities for
their subsidiaries, to issue unsound securities of their
own based upon the inflated value of the subsidiaries, and
to affect adversely the accounting practices and the rate
and dividend policies of the subsidiaries. See § 1 (b).'
10Bonbright and Means, The Holding Company (1932), p. 10;
Jones and Bigham, Principles of Public Utilities (1931), p. 589; Hearings before House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce,
74th Cong., 1st Sess., on H. R. 5423, Part 1, pp. 76-77.
n The congressional findings as to abuses listed in § 1 (b) were
based upon some of the most exhaustive and comprehensive studies
ever to underlie a federal statute. Congress specifically referred in
§ 1 (b) to the studies made by the Federal Trade Commission pursuant to S. Res. 83, 70th Cong., 1st Sess., the reports of the House
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce made pursuant to
H. Res. 59, 72nd Cong., 1st Sess., and H. J. Res. 572, 72nd Cong., 2d
Sess. A summary of the manifold and complex abuses revealed by
these studies is contained in the Federal Trade Commission Report,
supra, note 3. See Barnes, The Economics of Public Utility Regulation (1942), p. 71.

702

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Congress has found that all of these various abuses and
evils occur and are spread and perpetuated -through the
mails and the channels of interstate commerce. And
Congress has further found that such interstate activities,
which grow out of the ownership of securities of operating
companies, have caused public utility holding companies
to be "affected with a national public interest." § 1 (a) .1
The ownership of securities of operating companies,
then, has a real and intimate relation to the interstate
activities of holding companies and cannot be effectively
divorced therefrom. That ownership is the generating
force of the constant interstate flow of reports, letters,
equipment, securities, accounts, instructions and moneyall of which constitute the life blood of holding companies
and allow the numerous abuses to be effectuated. It also
makes the interstate transmission of gas and electricity
by the subsidiaries, as well as their other interstate actions,
reflect upon and magnify the interstate character of the
holding companies. Without the factor of stock ownership
the very foundation and framework of holding company
systems would be gone and the amount of their interstate
activity would be at a minimum; centralized management
and control of widely scattered utility properties would
be difficult if not impossible.
We may assume without deciding that the ownership of
securities, considered separately and abstractly, is not
12

The fact that § 1 (a) refers to certain activities of holding com-

panies as "often" occurring in or affecting interstate commerce and
that § 1 (b) refers to adverse effects "when" certain abuses and evils
occur is but an instance of careful draftsmanship. Contrary to North
American's contentions, the use of the words "often" and "when"
does not imply that Congress felt that the relationships of some
holding companies to commerce were negligible or that the abuses were
other than general in nature. Those words merely recognize that
interstate activities are not necessarily constant and that the abuses
may arise from time to time. That is enough, however, to support
legislative action. See Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S.
1, 40.

NORTH AMERICAN CO. v. S. E. C.
686

Opinion of the Court.

commerce. But when it is considered in the context of
public utility holding companies and their subsidiaries,
its relationship to interstate commerce is so clear and definite as to make any other conclusion unreasonable. And
Congress has plainly recognized that relationship in its
declarations of policy in § 1 (a), in its enumeration of
abuses in § 1 (b) and in its description of interstate activities of holding companies in § 4 (a). Such statements
would be utterly meaningless in the light of reality were
they not premised upon the ownership of securities by
holding companies and the use of that ownership to burden
and affect the channels of interstate commerce.
Section 11 (b) (1) is concerned with, and operates directly upon, this Ownership of securities. In § 1 (b) (4)
Congress specifically found that the national public interest, the interest of utility investors and the interest of
utility consumers are or may be adversely affected "when
the growth and extension of holding companies bears no
relation to economy of management and operation or the
integration and coordination of related operating properties . . ." 18 The "growth and extension of holding com18 "The growth of the holding-company systems has frequently been

primarily dictated by promoters' dreams of far-flung power and
bankers' schemes for security profits, and has often been attained with
the great waste and disregard of public benefit which might be expected from such motives. Whole strings of companies with no
particular relation to, and often essentially unconnected with, units in
an existing system have been absorbed from time to time. The prices
paid for additional units not only have been based upon inflated values
but frequently have been run up out of reason by the rivalry of contending systems. Because this growth has been actuated primarily
by a desire for size and the power inherent in size, the controlling
groups have in many instances done no more than pay lip service to
the principle of building up a system as an integrated and economic
whole, which might bring actual benefits to its component parts from
related operations and unified management. Instead, they have too
frequently given us massive, overcapitalized organizations of ever

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

panies" obviously rest upon their security holdings. Congress expressed in § 1 (c) its determination "to compel the
simplification of public-utility holding-company systems
and the elimination therefrom of properties detrimental
to the proper functioning of such systems," thus eliminating the evil complained of in § 1 (b) (4) and ameliorating
the conditions specified in the other subsections of § 1 (b).
It accordingly adopted § 11 (b) (1), whereby holding companies are compelled to integrate and coordinate their
systems and to divest themselves of security holdings of
geographically and economically unrelated properties. In
this way Congress hoped to rejuvenate local utility management and to restore effective state regulation, both of
which had been seriously impaired by the existence and
practices of nation-wide holding company systems.14
The constitutionality of § 11 (b) (1) under the commerce clause thus becomes apparent. For nearly one
hundred and twenty-five years, this Court has recognized
that the power of Congress over interstate commerce is
"the power to regulate; that is, to prescribe the rule by
which commerce is to be governed. This power, like all
others vested in Congress, is complete in itself, may be
exercised to its utmost extent, and acknowledges no limitations, other than are prescribed in the constitution."
Gibbon8 v. Ogden, supra,196. This is not to say, of course,
that Congress is an absolute sovereign. It is limited by
increasing complexity and steadily diminishing coordination and
efficiency." Report of the National Power Policy Committee on
Public-Utility Holding Companies, H. Doc. 137, 74th Cong., 1st
Sess., p. 5.
14 "As has been pointed out above, the purpose of section 11 is
simply to provide a mechanism to create conditions under which
effective Federal and State regulation will be possible. It is therefore the very heart of the title, the section most essential to the
accomplishment of the purposes set forth in the President's message."
S. Rep. 621, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 11.

NORTH AMERICAN CO. v. S. E. C.
686

Opinion of the Court.

express provisions in other parts of the Constitution, such
as § 9 of Article I and the Bill of Rights. But so far as
the commerce clause alone is concerned Congress has
plenary power, a power which "extends to every part of
interstate commerce, and to every instrumentality or
agency by which it is carried on; and the full control by
Congress of the subjects committed to its regulation is not
to be denied or thwarted by the commingling of interstate
and intrastate operations." MinnesotaRate Cases, supra,
399.
This broad commerce clause does not operate so as to
render the nation powerless to defend itself against economic forces that Congress decrees inimical or destructive
of the national economy. Rather it is an affirmative power
commensurate with the national needs. It is unrestricted
by contrary state laws or private contracts. And in using
this great power, Congress is not bound by technical legal
conceptions. Commerce itself is an intensely practical
matter. Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 398.
To deal with it effectively, Congress must be able to act
in terms of economic and financial realities. The commerce clause gives it authority so to act.
We ineed not attempt here to draw the outer limits of
this plenary power. It is sufficient to reiterate the wellsettled principle that Congress may impose relevant conditions and requirements on those who use the channels
of interstate commerce in order that those channels will
not become the means of promoting or spreading evil,
whether of a physical, moral or economic nature. Brooks
v. United States, 267 U. S. 432, 436-437. This power permits Congress to attack an evil directly at its source, provided that the evil bears a substantial relationship to
interstate commerce. Congress thus has power to make
direct assault upon such. economic evils as those relating
to labor relations, Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin

706

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Corp., 301 U. S. 1; Polish Alliance v. Labor Board, 322
U. S. 643; to wages and hours, United States v. Darby,
supra; to market transactions, Stafford v. Wallace, 258
U. S. 495; Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1;
and to monopolistic practices, Northern Securities Co. v.
United States, supra. The fact that an evil may involve
a corporation's financial practices, its business structure or
its security portfolio does not detract from the power of
Congress under the commerce clause to promulgate rules
in order to destroy that evil. Once it is established that
the evil concerns or affects commerce in more states than
one, Congress may act. "The framers of the Constitution
never intended that the legislative power of the nation
should find itself incapable of disposing of a subject matter specifically committed to its charge." In re Rahrer,
140 U. S. 545, 562.
Congress in § 11 (b) (1) of the Public Utility Holding
Company Act was concerned with the economic evils resulting from uncoordinated and unintegrated public
utility holding company systems. These evils were found
to be polluting the channels of interstate commerce and
to take the form of transactions occurring in and concerning more states than one. Congress also found that
the national welfare was thereby harmed, as well as the
interests of investors and consumers. These evils, moreover, were traceable in large part to the nature and extent
of the securities owned by the holding companies. Congress therefore had power under the commerce clause to
attempt to remove those evils by ordering the holding
companies to divest themselves of the securities that made
such evils possible.
It follows that North American's contention that the
ownership of securities is not in itself interstate commerce
and hence may not be made the basis of federal legislation
misconceives the issue in this case. Precisely the same

NORTH AMERICAN CO. v. S. E. C.
686

Opinion of the Court.

misconception was made more than forty years ago by
the appellants in Northern Securities Co. v. UnitedStates,
supra, 334-335, and was rejected by this Court. Inasmuch as Congress may protect the freedom of interstate
commerce by any means that are appropriate and that
are lawful and not prohibited by the Constitution, this
Court in the Northern Securities Co. case recognized that
Congress may deal with and affect the ownership of securities in order to protect the freedom of commerce. Congress likewise has the power in this case.
in fashioning the remedy decreed by § 11 (b) (1), Congress was following a pattern set many years ago by
decisions applying the Sherman Antitrust Act, Northern
Securities Co. v. United States, supra,"Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 221 U. S. 1; ContinentalIns. Co. v. United
States, 259 U. S. 156, and the commodities clause of the
Hepburn Act, United States v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 220
U. S. 257; United States v. Delaware,L. & W. R. Co., 238
U. S. 516. In $o affecting the corporate structure of holding companies, it was exercising its power "to foster, protect and control the commerce with appropriate regard to
the welfare of those who are immediately concerned, as
well as the public at large, and to promote its growth and
insure its safety." Dayton-Goose Creek R. Co. v. United
States, 263 U. S. 456, 478. It is clear, therefore, that § 11
(b) (1) is invulnerable to attack under the commerce
clause.
The constitutionality of § 11 (b) (1) is also questioned
from the standpoint of the due process clause of the Fifth
Amendment. North American argues that this section,
by compelling it to divest itself of its scattered subsidiaries
and to confine its operations to a single integrated system,
involves a taking of property without just compensation.
It is also claimed that such evils as were found to exist in
public utility holding companies find an adequate remedy

708

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

in other sections of the Act and that § 11 (b) (1) is therefore inappropriate. Neither contention is meritorious."
The taking of property is said to involve "a vast
destruction of values." Reference is made in this respect
to the valuable right of North American's shareholders to
pool their investments and thereby obtain the benefit alleged to flow from efficient, common management of
diversified interests. But Congress balanced the various
considerations and concluded that this right is clearly outweighed by the actual and potential damage to the public,
the investors and the consumers resulting from the use
made of pooled investments. Under such circumstances,
whatever value this right may have does not foreclose the
protection of the various interests which Congress found
to be paramount. See Northern Securities Co. v. United
States, supra. Nor does the value of North American's
contributions as a holding company to the earning power
and intrinsic value of the assets divested pursuant to
§ 11 (b) (1) bar Congress from requiring such divestment.
Congress has concluded from the extensive studies made
prior to the passage of the Act that the economic advantages of a holding compahy at the top of an unintegrated,
sprawling system are not commensurate with the resulting economic disadvantages. The reasonableness of that
conclusion is one for Congress to determine. The fact
that valuable interests may be affected does not, by itself, render invalid under the due process clause the
determination made by Congress.
contention also is made that the fact that § 11 (b) (1)
requires disposition of security holdings and the termination of relationships which antedate the passage of the Act is fatal to its
validity. But it merely requires that such holdings and relationships
shall not continue in the future. There is no punishment for past
events. Certainly there is no constitutional requirement that the
status quo be maintained. See United States v. Trans-Missouri
FreightAssn., 166 U. S. 290, 342.
15The

NORTH AMERICAN CO. v. S. E. C.
686

Opinion of the Court.

Moreover, there is no basis here for assuming that in
limiting the scope of North American's operations there
will be dispositions of securities for inadequate considerations, thereby raising a question as to whether there is a
destruction of these values without just compensation.
The Act does not contemplate or require the dumping or
forced liquidation of securities on the market for cash."8
Under §§ 11 (d) and 11 (e) of the Act, any divestment or
reorganization plan must meet the standards of fairness
and equitableness. In many instances this may involve
no more than a distribution of the securities among the
existing shareholders of the holding company. 7 But
should securities be sold for cash, speculation as to unfavorable market conditions cannot undermine the validity of § 11 (b) (1). Any plan of divestment or reorganization, moreover, must be carefully scrutinized by
both the Commission and the enforcing court, thus
enabling the assertion and protection of all shareholders'
rights. See Otis & Co. v. Securities & Exchange Commission, 323 U. S. 624. And there are provisions in the
"As has been explained above, the title does not require the dumping or forced liquidation of securities. Such disposition as may be
necessary can be accomplished by reorganization which will equitably
16

redistribute securities among existing security holders. Insofar as
there may be some redistribution of the securities of operating companies through investment banking channels, this will not result in a
substantial net increase in the supply of utility securities on the market because for every block of operating securities distributed there
will be a corresponding block of holding-company securities retired.
The net effect of such changes will be to strengthen the market for
utility securities generally by replacing holding-company securities
with sound operating-company securities. Such operations, -primarily
of a refunding nature, should strengthen rather than weaken the credit
of operating companies." S. Rep. 621, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 16.
17 North American has already disposed of its holdings of Detroit
Edison Company common stock under a plan distributing the stock
to North American's stockholders over a period of time. In re The
North American Company, Holding Company Act Release No. 4056.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Act guarding against unduly rapid divestment or liquidation. 8 In the light of such statutory and judicial safeguards and in the absence of any alleged unfair plan of
divestment, we cannot say that North American's shareholders are adversely affected, from a constitutional standpoint, by the operation of § 11 (b) (1). North American's
reliance on such cases as Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank
v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555, is therefore misplaced.
It is true, as North American points out, that other sections of the Act provide for the regulation of many activities of holding companies and their subsidiaries, activities
that were found to give birth to many of the evils about
which Congress was concerned. But such sections regulate future transactions, whereas § 11 (b) (1) is concerned
with the existing structures of holding company systems.
These structures in and of themselves have been found
by Congress to constitute an evil that cannot be met by
simply regulating future transactions. Congress, in the
exercise of its discretion, has decided that it is necessary
to reorganize the holding company structures. And inasmuch as it has the constitutional power to do so, we cannot
question the appropriateness or propriety of its decision.
Sunshine Anthracite Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381,
394.
Finally, North American claims that it has engaged in
none of the evils enumerated in § 1 (b) and that it should
be allowed to prove that fact. The contention apparently
is that § 11 (b) (1), as applied to North American, is unconstitutional since none of the evils that led Congress to
enact the statute is present in this instance. But if evils
disclosed themselves which entitled Congress to legislate
18 Under § 11 (c), holding companies are given at least a year to
comply with an order of the Commission under § 11 (b). The Commission is also authorized to extend the time for an additional year
upon a proper showing.

711

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
686

Syllabus.

as it did, Congress had power to legislate generally, unlimited by proof of the existence of the evils in each particular situation. Section 11 (b) (1) is not designed to
punish past offenders but to remove what Congress considered to be potential if not actual sources of evil. And

nothing in the Constitution prevents Congress from acting
in time to prevent potential injury to the national economy
from becoming a reality.

The judgment of the court below is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE REED, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR.
JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 123.

Argued December 10, 1945.-Decided April 1, 1946.

1. The Assimilative Crimes Act penalizes, when committed within a
federal enclave, any act "which is not made penal by any laws of
Congress," but which is an offense under the law of the State in
which such enclave is located. The Arizona "statutory rape" law
fixes 18 as the age of consent. Section 279 of the Federal Criminal
Code, defining the crime of carnal knowledge, fixes 16 as the age
of consent. Held that the Assimilative Crimes Act did not make
the Arizona law applicable to the case of a married white man who,
within the Colorado River Indian Reservation in Arizona, had sexual
intercourse with an unmarried Indian girl then over 16 but under
18 years of age. P. 7.18.
2. So held because (1) the very acts upon which conviction would
depend have been: made penal by the laws of Congress defining
adultery, and (2) the offense known toArizona as "statutory rape"
has been defined and prohibited by § 279 of the Criminal Code,
which section is not to be redefined and enlarged by application
to it of the Assimilative Crimes Act. P. 717.
148 F. 2d 960, reversed.

