OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

WILSON ET AL., DOING BUSINESS AS WILSON LUMBER
CO., v. COOK, COMMISSIONER OF REVENUES.
NO. 328.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

Argued January 11, 1946.-Decided March 4, 1946.
An Arkansas statute, Act 118 of 1923, Pope's Digest, Arkansas Statutes
(1937), §§ 13371-13375, imposes a tax on the severance of timber
from the soil; requires payment of the tax in the first instance by
the person actually engaged in severing the timber from the soil,
but, in general terms and without excepting the United States, requires the severer to collect or withhold the amount of the tax
from the price paid to the owner of the timber at the time of the
severance; and gives the State a lien upon all timber severed from
the soil. A contractor contracted with the United States for the
purchase and severance of timber on national forest reserves located ivithin the State, some of which were public lands of the
United States when Arkansas was admitted to statehood and some
of which were acquired by the United States by purchase with
consent of the State. The contract provided that "title to all timber . . . shall remain in the United States until it is paid for, and
scaled, measured or counted." The contractor severed timber from
the forest reserves in question; execution was issued for collection
of the tax; and the contractor sued to enjoin collection. Held:
1. Since the record in No. 328 does not show that appellants
presented for decision to the State Supreme Court any federal
question, and since that court, in holding the tax constitutional, did
not necessarily pass on the constitutional validity of the statute,
this Court is without jurisdiction of the appeal under § 237 (a) of
the Judicial Code; but the appeal is treated as a petition for certiorari, as required by § 237 (c), and certiorari is granted. Pp.
480-482.
2. Having treated the appeal in No. 328 as a petition for certiorari, as required by § 237 (c) of the Judicial Code, and having
granted certiorari, this Court can pass only on the federal questions
passed upon by the State Supreme Court. P. 482.
3. The contractor, being taxed by the State on his activities in
severing timber from Government lands under contract with the
*Together with No. 329, Cook, Commissionerof Revenues, v. Wilson
et al., doing business as Wilson Lumber Co., on certiorari to.the
same court, argued and decided on the same dates.

WILSON v. COOK.
474

475

Syllabus.

Government, can not claim the benefit of implied constitutional
immunity of the Federal Government from taxation by the State.
Pp. 482, 483.
4. Since the point is made for the first time here, this Court is
not free to consider an attack on the state statute on the ground
that it requires the severer to collect the tax from the owner of the
timber at the time of severance and gives the State a lien on the
land from which the timber is severed and a lien upon the severed
timber, even though title to the severed product has not passed to
the taxpayer, and that the statute thus purports to place a forbidden
tax directly on the United States. P. 483.
5. This Court is not now concerned with the Government's liability to the statutory lien or for the payment of the tax, since it
will be time enough to consider those questions when some effort
is made to enforce the lien or collect the tax from the United
States. P. 484.
6. The State has territorial jurisdiction to lay the tax upon activities carried on within the forest reserve purchased by the United
States. P. 486.
(a) The Arkansas statute consenting to the purchase of forest
lands by the United States (Pope's Digest, Arkansas Statutes,
§ 5646) made no express grant or reservation of legislative power
over the areas purchased and can not be taken as having yielded
or intended to surrender to the Federal Government the state legislative jurisdiction over the area in question, so far as exercise of
that jurisdiction is' consistent with federal functions. P. 486.
(b) By § 12 of the Act of March 1, 1911, 16 U. S. C. § 516,
authorizing the purchase of forest reserves, Congress in effect has
declined to accept exclusive legislative jurisdiction over forest reserve lands, and expressly provided that the State shall not lose
its jurisdiction in this respect nor the inhabitants "be absolved from
their duties as citizens of the State." P. 486.
7. The State has legislative jurisdiction over the federal forest
reserve lands located within it which were public lands of the United
States when Arkansas was admitted to statehood. P. 487.
(a) Upon admission of Arkansas to statehood upon an equal
footing with the original States, the legislative authority of the
State extended over the federally owned lands within the State, to
the same extent as over similar property held by private owners,
except that the State could enact no law which would conflict with
the powers reserved to the United States by the Constitution.
P. 487.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Statement of the Case.

327 U. S.

(b) Such authority did not pass to the United States by virtue
of the provision of Article I, § 8, cl. 17 of the Constitution, which
authorizes it "to exercise exclusive Legislation . . . over all Places
purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the State in which
the Same shall be." P. 488.
(c) Since the United States did not purchase the lands with
the consent of the State, it did not acquire exclusive jurisdiction
under the constitutional provision, and there has been no cession of
jurisdiction by the State. P. 488.
(d) Although Arkansas has conferred on Congress power to
pass laws for the administration and control of lands acquired by
the United States in Arkansas, it has not ceded exclusive legislative
jurisdiction either over lands reserved by the United States from
the public domain or over lands acquired in the State. P. 488.
208 Ark. 459, 187 S. W. 2d 7, reversed in part and affirmed in part.

A contractor who had contracted with the United States
for the purchase and severance of timber on national forest reserves in the State of Arkansas sued to enjoin collection of a tax levied by the State on the severance of timber
from the soil. The state chancery court enjoined
collection of the tax. On appeal, the Supreme Court of
Arkansas modified the judgment, holding that the State
was without authority to lay a tax on the severance of
timber from lands which were public lands of the United
States when Arkansas was admitted to statehood; that
the authority of the State to lay the tax extended to transactions occurring on the forest reserve acquired by the
United States by purchase; and that the tax assessed
against the contractor for the severance of timber on
forest reserves of the latter class did not lay an unconstitutional burden on the United States. 208 Ark. 459;
187 S. W. 2d 7. Each party appealed from that part of
the decision which was adverse to him. On submission
of jurisdictional statements, this Court postponed consideration of its jurisdiction of the contractor's appeal
(No. 328), but dismissed the Tax Commissioner's appeal
(No. 329), for want of jurisdiction, treated the papers as

WILSON v. COOK.
474

Opinion of the Court.

a petition for certiorari, and granted certiorari. 326 U. S.
685. Reversed in part and affirmed in part, p. 489.
Wm.J. Kirby submitted on brief for Wilson et al.
0. T. Ward argued the cause for the Commissioner of
Revenues. With him on the brief was R. S. Wilson. In
No. 328, Thos. S. Buzbee filed a motion to affirm or dismiss
in part.
Solicitor General McGrath,Assistant Attorney General
Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., Sewall Key, Arnold Raum, J. Louis
Monarch and William Robert Koerner filed a brief for the
United States, as amicus curiae.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
An Arkansas statute, Act 118 of 1923, Pope's Digest,
Arkansas Statutes (1937), § 13371, imposes "a privilege
or license tax . . . upon each person . . .engaged in the
business of . . . severing from the soil . . .for commercial purposes natural resources, including ... timber ... "
By § 13372, as a condition of the license, there is imposed
on the severer an obligation to pay the tax and consent
that the tax "shall . . .remain a lien on each unit of production until paid into the State Treasury . . ." Section
13375 fixes the tax at 7 cents per thousand feet of the timber severed. Section 13376 provides that the state "shall
have a lien upon any and all natural resources severed
from the soil . . ." In § 13382 it is provided that "the
payment of said privilege taxes shall be required of the
severer . . . actually engaged in the operation of severing natural products whether as owner, lessee, concessionaire or contractor. The reporting taxpayer shall collect or
withhold out of the proceeds of the sale of the products
severed the proportionate parts of the total tax due by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

respective owners &)such'natural resources at the time of
severance."
Appellants in No. 328, a copartnership, entered into
contracts with the United States for the purchase and
severance of timber on national forest reserves located
within the state, some of which were public lands of the
United States when Arkansas was admitted to statehood
and some of which were acquired by the United States by
purchase with the consent of the state. The contracts of
severance and purchase provided that "title to all timber
included in this agreement shall remain in* the United
States until it has been paid for, and scaled, measured or
counted." By the contracts the appellants were required
in advance of severance to place with the Government
,representative advance installments of the estimated
purchase price.
.In the years 1937 to 1942, appellants, proceeding under
their contract, severed timber from the forest reserves in
question. An execution having been issued and delivered
to the county sheriff, appellee in No. 328, and also alppellant in No. 329, for collection of the tax assessed against
appellants in No. 328 for the years in question, they
brought the present suit in the state chancery court to
enjoin the collection. The questions on which the parties
ask decision are (a) whether the forest reserves which were
public lands of the United States before Arkansas was
admitted to statehood are subject to the taxing jurisdiction
of the state; (b) whether the forest reserves acquired by
the United States by purchase remain subject to the taxing
authority of the state; and (c) whether the tax is unconstitutional as a tax laid upon the property or activities
of the United States, or because the tax laid on plaintiffs imposed an unconstitutional burden on the United
States.
The chancery court gave judgment for plaintiffs, enjoining collection of the tax. It held that if the tax "be

WILSON v. COOK.
474

Opinion of the Court.

applied" to plaintiffs, it "would be a tax upon the operations of the Government of the United States," and that
the tax "does not apply to the timber severed by the
plaintiffs from the National Forest." On appeal the
Supreme Court of Arkansas modified the judgment, holding that the state was without authority to lay a tax on
the severance of timber from lands which were public
lands of the United States when Arkansas was admitted
to statehood; that the authority of the state to lay the tax
extended to transactions occurring on the forest reserve
acquired by the United States by purchase; and that the
present tax assessed against plaintiffs for the severance of
timber on forest reserves of this class did not lay an
unconstitutional burden on the United States. 208 Ark.
459, 187 S.W. 2d 7.
Plaintiffs have appealed, in No. 328, from so much of
the judgment as sustained the tax with respect to lands
acquired by the United States by purchase, urging in their
assignments of error that the Supreme Court of Arkansas
erred in reversing the judgment of the chancery court,
"which held to be void the severance tax statute," and in
holding that the severance tax law is not repugnant to the
supremacy clause, Art. VI, cl. 2 of the Constitution, or to
Art. IV, § 3, cl. 2, conferring on Congress power to dispose
of "and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting . . . Property belonging to the United States . . ."
Defendant, appellant in No. 329, seeks by his appeal to
reverse so much of the judgment as denied the right to levy
the tax for severance of timber from forest lands reserved
from the public domain. On submission of the jurisdictional statements in this Court we postponed to the hearing on the merits consideration of our jurisdiction in No.
328. In No. 329 we dismissed the appeal for want of jurisdiction. § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code as amended, 28
U. S. C. § 344 (a). Treating the papers on which the ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

peal was allowed as a petition for writ of certiorari, as required by § 237 (c) of the Judicial Code as amended, we
granted certiorari.
Under § 237 of the Judicial Code we are without jurisdiction of the appeal in No. 328, unless there was "drawn
in question" before the Supreme Court of Arkansas "the
validity of a statute" of the state, "on the ground of its
being repugnant to the Constitution, . . . or laws of the
United States." The purpose of this requirement is to restrict our mandatory jurisdiction on appeal, Memphis Gas
Co. v. Beeler, 315 U. S. 649, 651, and to make certain that
no judgment of a state court will be reviewed on appeal by
this Court unless the highest court of the state has first
been apprised that a state statute is being assailed as invalid on federal grounds, CharlestonAssn. v. Alderson, 324
U. S. 182, 185-6 and cases cited, or, when the statute, as
applied, is so assailed, until it has opportunity authoritatively to construe it. Fiske v. Kansas, 274 U. S. 380, 385
and cases cited. This jurisdictional requirement is satis.
fled only if the record shows that the question of the validity under federal law of the state statute, as construed and
applied, has either been presented for decision to the highest court of the state, Wall v. Chesapeake & Ohio R. Co.,
256 U. S. 125, 126; Citizens National Bank v. Durr, 257
U. S. 99, 106, or has in fact been decided by it, Nickey v.
Mississippi,292 U. S. 393, 394; Whitfield v. Ohio, 297 U. S.
431, 435-6, and that its decision was necessary to the
judgment. Cuyahoga Power Co. v. Northern Realty Co.,
244 U. S. 300, 304 and cases cited. The record in this case
does not disclose that at any time in the course of the proceedings in the state courts plaintiffs asserted the invalidity of a state statute on any federal ground. The bill of
complaint in the chancery court set up only that the demand of the state for the tax "is an illegal and void exaction" and "is in violation of "Art. IV, § 3, cl. 2 and of Art.

WILSON v. COOK.
474

Opinion of the Court.

VI, cl. 2 of the Constitution. There were no assignments
of error in the Supreme Court of Arkansas.
As the record does not show that the plaintiffs presented
for decision to the state Supreme Court any federal question, they have no appeal to this Court unless the opinion
of the state Supreme Court shows that that court ruled
on the validity of a state statute under the laws and Constitution of the United States. Charleston Assn. v.
Alderson, supra, 185-6 and cases cited. That court's
opinion, while holding that the "tax law" was applicable
to "persons severing timber from lands of the United States
in a national forest," does not indicate that plaintiffs
raised there, or that the court passed upon, the validity
of the statute as applied. The court considered only the
validity of "the tax," not that of the statute.
With reference to plaintiffs' liability for the tax, it decided only that the state "has the right to collect the
severance tax, so far as territorial jurisdiction is concerned," for severance of timber from lands acquired by
the United States by purchase, and that plaintiffs could
not claim the benefits of the immunity, if any, of the
Federal Government from "the tax," since it was imposed
on plaintiffs, not the Government or its property. It said
that the Government was not constitutionally immune
from such economic burden as might be passed on from
the taxpayer to the Government by reason of the effect of
the tax paid by the severers, citing James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S.134 and Alabama v. King & Boozer,
314 U. S. 1. Being asked to enjoin the collection of the
tax, the state court contented itself with holding that the
tax, which was assessed on plaintiffs and not the Government, imposed no burden on the Government which infringed its implied constitutional tax immunity. Since
the collection of a tax by a state officer, as here, may or may
not offend against the Constitution, independently of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

constitutionality of a statute, see Nashville, C. & St. L. R.
Co. v. Browning, 310 U. S. 362, 369, the state court, in
holding the tax constitutional, did not necessarily pass on
the constitutional validity of the statute.
In order to support an appeal to this Court it is necessary that the question of the validity of the state taxing
statute be either presented to the state court or decided by
it. It is not sufficient merely to attack, as here, the tax
levied under the statute, or "the right to collect the tax"
which has been levied, or to show that the validity of the
tax alone has been considered. CharlestonAssn. v. Alderson, supra, 185, and cases cited. For "the mere objection
to an exercise of authority under a statute, whose validity
is not attacked, cannot be made the basis" of an appeal.
Jett Bros. Co. v. City of Carroltton,252 U. S. 1, 6. It is
for this reason that we have held that an appeal will not
be sustained where there has been only an attack upon a
tax assessment, Jett Bros. Co. v. City of Carrollton,supra;
Miller v. Board of County Comm'rs, 290 U. S. 586; Memphis Gas Co. v. Beeler, supra, 650; Commercial Credit Co.
v. O'Brien, 323 U. S. 665; Charleston Assn. v. Alderson,
supra, 185, or, as here, upon a "tax," Citizens National
Bank v. Durr,supra, 106; Indian Territory Illuminating
Co. v. Board of County Comm'rs, 287 U. S. 573; Baltimore
NationalBank v. State Tax Comm'n, 296 U. S. 538; Irvine
v. Spaeth, 314 U. S. 575, or upon the attempt to collect a
tax, Jett Bros. Co. v. City of Carrollton,supra.
Since plaintiffs' attack is directed to the validity of the
tax as laid, and not to the validity of the statute, as applied, we are without jurisdiction of their appeal under
§ 237 of the Judicial Code. Treating the appeal as a petition for writ of certiorari, as required by § 237 (c) of the
Judicial Code, we grant certiorari, as we did in No. 329.
We can consider only the federal questions passed upon by
the state Supreme Court.
Our decision in James v. Dravo Contracting Co., supra,
and in Alabama v. King & Boozer, 8upra, and the cases

WILSON v. COOK.
474

Opinion of the Court.

cited in those opinions, can leave no doubt that the Supreme Court of Arkansas correctly held that plaintiffs, who
are taxed by the state on their activities in severing lumber
from Government lands under contract with the Government, cannot claim the benefit of the implied constitutional immunity of the Federal Government from taxation
by the state.
Plaintiffs now, for the first time, assail the tax and the
statute imposing it, on the ground that the Act requires
the severer to collect the tax from the owner of the timber
at the time of severance, Pope's Digest, § 13382, and gives
to the state a lien on the land from which the lumber is
severed, id., § 13374, and a lien upon the severed timber,
id., § 13376, even though title to the severed product has
not passed to the taxpayer. They contend that the Act
thus purports to place a forbidden tax directly on the
United States. Cf. Mayo v. United States, 319 U. S. 441.
But we are not free to consider these grounds of attack
for the reason that they were not presented to the Supreme
Court of Arkansas or considered or decided by it. While
the constitutional question now sought to be presented is
in some measure related to that decided by the state court,
and, like it, arises under the implied constitutional immunity of the Federal Government from state taxation, it
is not merely "an enlargement" of an argument made before the state court, but is so distinct from the question
decided by the state court that our decision of the issue
raised there would not necessarily decide that now sought
to be raised. Compare Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S.
193, 197, 198. We are therefore not free to consider it.
"In reviewing the judgment of a state court, this Court
will not pass upon any federal question not shown by the
record to have been raised in the state court or considered
there, whether it be one arising under a different or the
same clause in the Constitution with respect to which other
questions are properly presented." New York ex rel. Cohn

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

v. Graves, 300 U. S. 308, 317, and cases cited. For, as we
said in McGoldrick v. Compagnie Generale,309 U. S. 430,
434-435, "In cases coming here from state courts in which
a state statute is assailed as unconstitutional, there are
reasons of peculiar force which should lead us to refrain
from deciding questions not presented or decided in the
highest court of the state whose judicial action we are
called upon to review. Apart from the reluctance with
which every court should proceed to set aside legislation
as unconstitutional on grounds not properly presented, due
regard for the appropriate relationship of this Court to
state courts requires us to decline to consider and decide
questions affecting the validity of state statutes not urged
or considered there. It is for these reasons that this Court,
where the constitutionality of a statute has been upheld
in the state court, consistently refuses to consider any
grounds of attack not raised or decided in that court."
See also Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Co. v. Illinois, 175
U. S. 626, 633; Bolln v. Nebraska, 176 U. S. 83, 89-92;
New York v. Kleinert, 268 U. S. 646, 650-1; Whitney v.
California,274 U. S. 357, 362, 363; Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U. S. 260, 267-8.
In view of the lien provisions of the statute and its
provisions which purport to authorize the taxpayer to
collect the tax from the owner of the severed timber, here
the Government, it is suggested that we cannot rightly
adjudge that the state is entitled to recover the tax on the
transactions of severance involved, without determining
the applicability of these provisions to the Government
and their validity if so applied. We are not now concerned
with the Government's liability to the statutory lien or
for payment of the tax. It will be time enough to consider its interests when some effort is made to enforce the
lien or collect the tax from the United States. We obviously do not by our judgment against the plaintiffs

WILSON v. COOK.
474

Opinion of the Court.

impose the tax on the Government. Their property alone
is subject to the lien of the present judgment and to
execution issued under it. They cannot recover the
amount of the judgment from the Government unless the
Constitution permits. And if it forbids they obviously
will not collect the tax. In neither case does our judgment
impose any burden on the United States. We are not
called on to determine whether plaintiffs could have successfully contested their liability in the state courts or
here, if the contentions were properly raised, upon the
ground that they would be unable to collect the tax from
the Government, either because the provision purporting
to allow such collection is inapplicable where the owner
is the Government or, if applicable, invalid, or on the
ground that the tax, applied to them without recourse
against the Government, would deny to them the equal
protection of the laws.
The state, construing its own law, has rendered an unconditional judgment holding plaintiffs liable for the tax.
For purposes of our review we must assume that the
judgment conforms to state law. Hence we are called
on to determine only federal questions properly raised on
the record. Considering the only question of the tax immunity of the United States which is so raised, we decide
for reasons already stated that the tax now laid and sustained imposes no unconstitutional burden on the Federal
Government. No question arising under the Fourteenth
Amendment is raised by the record either in the state
courts or here, and we are without jurisdiction to pass
upon it.*
*Even if the opinion of the Supreme Court of Arkansas had proceeded on a ground so unexpected as to make timely, by petition for
rehearing, the raising of the federal questions now for the first time
advanced, compare Saunders v. Shaw, 244 U. S. 317; Ohio v. Akron
Park District,281 U. S. 74, 79, plaintiffs in their petition for rehearing
did not suggest them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

A further question is whether the lands in the forest
reserve, which were purchased for that purpose by the
United States, are within the territorial taxing jurisdiction
of the state. The answer turns on the interpretation of
the statute of the United States authorizing the acquisition of the lands, §§ 7 and 12 of the Act of March 1, 1911,
c. 186, 3,6 Stat. 961, 16 U. S. C. §§ 480, 516, and of the state
statute of Arkansas authorizing the sale. Pope's Digest,
§ 5646. The meaning of both statutes, as applied in this
case, is a federal question, since upon their construction
depend rights, powers and duties of the United States.
Mason Co. v. Tax Comm'n, 302 U. S.186, 197, and cases
cited.
The statute of Arkansas consenting to the purchase of
forest lands by the United States, provided that the state
should "retain a concurrent jurisdiction with the United
States in and over lands so acquired . . .," to issue and
execute "civil process in all cases, and such criminal process
as may issue under the authority of the State . . ." It
made no express grant or reservation of legislative power
over the areas purchased. Hence the statute cannot be
taken as having yielded or intended to surrender to the
Federal Government the state legislative jurisdiction over
the area in question, so far as exercise of that jurisdiction
is consistent with federal functions. Any doubt as to the
effect of such a grant by the state in conferring exclusive
legislative jurisdiction over the territory which is acquired
by the Federal Government is removed by the provisions
of the federal statute.
Section 12 of the federal statute, authorizing the purchase, provided:
"That the jurisdiction, both civil and criminal, over
persons upon the lands acquired under this Act shall
not be affected or changed by their permanent reservation . . . as national forest lands, except so far as

WILSON v. COOK.
474

487

Opinion of the Court.

the punishment of offenses against the United States
is concerned, the intent and meaning of this section
being that the State wherein such land is situated
shall not, by reason of such reservation and administrationlose its jurisdiction nor the inhabitants thereof
their rights and privileges as citizens or be absolved
from their duties as citizens of the State."
By this enactment Congress in effect has declined to
accept exclusive legislative jurisdiction over forest reserve
lands, and expressly provided that the state shall not lose
its jurisdiction in this respect nor the inhabitants "be absolved from their duties as citizens of the State." Compare Mason Co. v. Tax Comm'n, supra; Atkinson v. Tax
Comm'n, 303 U. S.20; Collins v. Yosemite Park Co., 304
U. S. 518, 528; Stewart & Co. v. Sadrakula, 309 U. S.
94,99.
Our conclusion, based on the construction of the interrelated state and federal statutes, is that the state has
territorial jurisdiction to lay the tax upon activities carried
on within the forest reserve purchased by the United
States.
What we have said of the argument that the tax assessed
on plaintiffs is an unconstitutional burden on the Government, is applicable to the tax assessed for severance of
timber from forest reserve lands which, from the beginning, have been a part of the public domain. That tax is
likewise valid if the state has legislative jurisdiction over
such lands within its boundaries.
Upon admission of Arkansas to statehood in 1836 upon
an equal footing with the original states (Act of June 15,
1836, c. 100, 5 Stat. 50), the legislative authority of the
state extended over the federally owned lands within the
state, to the same extent as over similar property held by
private owners, save that the state could enact no law
which would conflict with the powers reserved to the
United States by the Constitution. Ft. Leavenworth R.

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525, 539; Utah Power & Light Co.
v. United States, 243 U. S. 389, 404. Such authority did
not pass to the United States by virtue of the provisions of
Article I, § 8, cl. 17 of the Constitution, which authorize
it "to exercise exclusive Legislation . . . over all Places
purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the State
in which the Same shall be."
. Since the United States did not purchase the lands with
the consent of the state, it did not acquire exclusive jurisdiction under the constitutional provision, and there has
been no cession of jurisdiction by the state. Surplus
Trading Co. v. Cook, 281 U. S. 647, 651; Mason Co. v. Tax
Comm'n, supra, 210. Although Arkansas has, by § 5647,
Pope's Digest, conferred on Congress power to pass laws,
civil and criminal, for the administration and control of
lands acquired by the United States in Arkansas, it has
ceded exclusive legislative jurisdiction neither over lands
reserved by the United States from the public domain nor
over lands acquired in the state. Ft. Leavenworth R. Co.
v. Lowe, supra, 530, 531. It follows that the state has
retained its legislative jurisdiction, which it acquired by
statehood, over public lands within the state, which have
been included within the forest reserve.
We conclude that the state has legislative jurisdiction
over the federal forest reserve lands located within it,
whether they were originally a part of the public domain
of the United States, or were acquired by the United States
by purchase, and that the tax assessed against plaintiffs
is not subject to any constitutional infirmity, or to any
want of taxing jurisdiction of the state to lay it with respect to transactions on the federal forest reserve located
within the state.
The judgment is reversed insofar as it adjudged plaintiffs not liable for the tax on severance of timber from lands
held by the United States as original owner, and the cause

WILSON v. COOK.
474

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

is remanded to the Supreme Court of Arkansas for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. In all
other respects the judgment is affirmed. On the remand
the state courts will be free, so far as their own practice
allows, to determine any state questions here involved and
any federal questions not already decided by this opinion.
Compare Schuylkill Trust Co. v. Pennsylvania,302 U. S.
506, with Schuylkill Trust Co. v. Pennsylvania, 296
U. S. 113.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
Opinion of MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, dissenting, an-

nounced by the

CHIEF JUSTICE.

In No. 328 the Court sustains the application of the Arkansas severance tax to the appellants.1 In my judgment
the cause should be remanded to the state court for it to
determine the applicability of the lien and collectionprovisions to the United States, or their severability, and in
the light of that determination to ascertain the constitutional 'validity of the tax as applied to appellants. Those
issues are inescapable on the record in this case. For
until they are determined any decision here can affect only
a tax of uncertain incidence, unless the Court in sustaining
it means to rule, as I think the Arkansas court ruled, that
the tax is valid whether or not the statute's lien and collection provisions ' apply to the United States as owner
of the land and the severed timber.
1 On the jurisdictional discussion of the Court the appellants are, of
course, petitioners on certiorari.
2 Pope's Digest Ark. (1937) §§ 13371-13395. The statute was first
enacted in 1923. Acts of Arkansas, 1923, Act 118. It was materially

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

Neither course is properly open to us. Since the Arkansas court, as this Court's opinion does not dispute, has
sustained the tax without deciding whether the lien and
collection provisions are severable and inapplicable to the
United States, we are completely at loss to know whether
the tax rests ultimately upon the Government, as it does
under Arkansas law on all other owners not expressly ex-

empted. Consequently we have no determinable issue,
but only a speculative inquiry of a sort beyond the tradition and, in my opinion, the jurisdiction of this Court to
decide. On the other hand, if the effect of the decision

here, as in the Arkansas court, is to sustain the tax regardless of whether the lien and collection provisions apply in
whole or in part to the United States, the result is substantially to sustain a tax laid by the state directly on the
Government. This result is as unacceptable as to render
an advisory opinion upon the validity of a tax of uncer-

tain and speculative application.
From McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, to now the
rule has remained that the states are without power, absent the consent of Congress, to tax the United States,

whether with reference to its property or its functions.
amended in 1929, but its essential scheme remained the same. Acts of
Arkansas, 1929, Act 283. See notes 4-6, 9-12, and text, for the substance and effects of the provisions.
Although, as I read its opinion, the Arkansas court carefully refrained from ruling upon their severability and therefore also their
applicability to the Government (see text infra), the lien and collection provisions were before it, were cited in the opinion, and were
necessarily involved in the issues presented. The court appears to
have ruled that the tax is valid as applied to the appellants regardless
of whether these provisions are severable or are applicable to the
United States. That it did so furnishes no ground for believing that
the issues relating to them were not presented or were waived. The
petition for rehearing, as well as the opinion itself, demonstrates the
contrary. The first ground set forth was: "The court erred in holding
that the tax was not a direct tax on the United States."

WILSON v. COOK.
474

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

United States v. Allegheny County, 322 U. S. 174, 177.
That rule is of the essence of federal supremacy. It is not
to be chipped away by ambiguous decisions of state courts
or easy assumptions relating to their effects which ignore
the direct impact of state taxes where they have no right
to strike.
This is true regardless of the vagaries of decision, at
different periods, in allowing expansion of the Government's immunity to include others. Recent recessions
from former broad extensions of this kind have settled that
ultimate economic incidence upon the Government of a
state tax laid upon others is not alone enough to invalidate
the tax. James v. Dravo ContractingCo., 302 U. S. 134;
Alabama v. King & Boozer, 314 U. S. 1; see Penn Dairies
v. Milk Control Comm'n, 318 U. S. 261, 269.' But this
does not mean either that such incidence of the tax is irrelevant to its validity or that all state taxes purporting to
be laid upon others but in fact reaching the Government
are valid.
It is still true that "the taxpayer is the person ultimately
liable for the tax itself." Colorado Bank v. Bedford, 310
U. S. 41, 52; Federal Land Bank v. Bismarck, 314 U. S.
95. If the person who must pay the tax in the first place
is required by the taxing statute to collect the tax or an
equivalent amount from the United States, the tax is upon
the United States. "State law could not obligate the
Central Government to reimburse for a valid tax, much
less for an invalid one." United States v. Allegheny
County, 322 U. S. 174, 189. Although the Court has gone
far in permitting the states to force one private person to
act as tax collector for another, cf. Monamotor Oil Co. v.
Johnson, 292 U. S. 86; Felt & TarrantMfg. Co. v. GallaSee Powell, The Waning of Intergovernmental Tax Immunities
(1945) 58 Harv. L. Rev. 633; Powell, The Remnant of Intergovernmental Tax Immunities (1945) 58 Harv. L. Rev. 757.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

gher, 306 U. S. 62; General Trading Co. v. Iowa Tax
Comm'n, 322 U. S. 335, and dissenting opinion at 339,
that device cannot be utilized by the states to lay taxes on
the United States. Nor has it been held heretofore, if it
is now, that a tax purporting to be laid upon a private
individual or concern is valid regardless of whether the
provisions of the state taxing statute for passing on the
tax to another are applicable to the United States or are
valid if so applied.
I am unable to comprehend the effect of the Court's
decision. If it is ruling sub silentio or ex hypothesi that
the lien and collection provisions of the Arkansas statute,
for any application to the Government, are inapplicable
or severable, we have no right to make such a decision.
That is the business of the Arkansas courts. If the ruling
is that the tax is valid even though those provisions are
applicable to the United States, then for the first time
the Court is overruling the basic principle of McCulloch
v. Maryland. If the decision is, finally, that the tax is
valid whether or not the lien and collection provisions are
applicable or severable, then it embodies both faults.
I do not think the Court means to overrule McCulloch
v. Maryland. Nor does it purport to interpret or determine the Arkansas law concerning either applicability or
severability of the statute's provisions. But unless it is
doing this, without so stating, I see no escape from the
other horn of the dilemma. Either the tax as applied is
valid or it is invalid. Whether it is valid or not depends
on whether the lien and collection provisions apply to the
United States, for they place the tax directly upon the
owner. That issue is inescapable in this case, whether in
the Arkansas court or here.
I do not think the Arkansas court decided either that
the lien and collection provisions are inapplicable to the
United States or that they are severable from the re-

WILSON v. COOK.
474

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

mainder of the statute, notwithstanding it had those provisions before it, cited them though without ruling upon
them, and proceeded to sustain the application of the tax
to appellants. I think it clear that the court avoided
making such a ruling. In my opinion the Arkansas decision in effect, though not in words, was that the tax is
valid regardless of whether the enforcement provisions apply to the United States; which in effect was to rule that
the tax had been constitutionally applied even though the
collection provisions are applicable to the United States, to
the extent at least of the withholding provisions.
My reasons for this view are several. In the first place,
the court's opinion, though noting the collection and lien
provisions and the contract's term that title to the severed
timber should remain in the Government "until it has been
paid for, and scaled, measured or counted," does this in the
introductory statement of the case and then proceeds
through a lengthy discussion without again referring to
those provisions.
Moreover they provide plainly that where the severer
is different from the owner, the former must pay the tax
but he is required to pass it on to the owner.4 A further
provision requires him to withhold the amount of the tax
from any money or severed property in kind due the owner
under their contract.' Another section gives the state a
4Pope's Digest Ark. § 13382 provides: "The reporting taxpayer
shall collect or withhold out of the proceeds of the sale of the products
severed the proportionate parts of the total tax due by the respective
owners of such naturalresources at the time of severance." (Emphasis
added.)
5The provision reads: "Every producer actually operating any oil
or gas well, quarry or other property from which natural resources
are severed, under contract or agreement requiring payment direct to
the owner of any royalty, excess royalty or working interest, either in
money or in kind, is hereby authorized, empowered and required to
deduct from any such royalty or other interest the amount of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

lien on the severed resources for the tax and penalties.'

The clear effect of the provisions requiring "the reporting
taxpayer" to "collect or withhold" the amount of the tax
from the owner is to give him a defense to the owner's
action to recover the full contract price for the severed resources and an equally clear right of action against the
owner for the amount of the tax.
Thus the scheme of the tax is to place both its ultimate
legal and its ultimate economic incidence on the owner.
The tax in terms is "due by the respective owners of such
natural resources." ' It is "a privilege tax or license tax;
and is levied on the business of severing," as the Arkansas
court declared in this case. 208 Ark. 459, 468, 187 S. W.
2d 7, 12. But it is ultimately, as that court has also declared, though not expressly in this case, a privilege or
license tax levied upon the owner's business of severing,
for it applies to him whenever he severs or permits severance for sale; and "sale" includes turning over the timber
severance tax herein levied before making such payment." Pope's
Digest Ark. § 13382. (Emphasis added.)
"Producer" is defined as every person, firm, corporation or association of persons "engaged in the business of mining, cutting or otherwise
severing from the soil or water for commercial purposes natural resources, including minerals and ores, pearls, diamonds, and other
precious stones, bauxite, fuller's earth, phosphates, shells, chalk, cement, clay, sand, gravel, asphalt, ochre, oil, gas, salt, sulphur, lignite,
coal, marble, stones and stone products, timber, turpentine and all other
forest products and all other natural products of the soil or water of
Arkansas." Pope's Digest Ark. § 13371.
6Pope's Digest Ark. § 13376: "The State of Arkansas shall have a
lien upon any and all natural resources severed from the soil or water
for the tax and penalties herein imposed and, in addition thereto, said
lien shall attach to the well, machinery, tools and implements used in
severing of such resources."
As the section was enacted originally in 1923 the provision for
attachment of the lien to machinery, etc., used in severing was not
included. This was added by amendment in 1929. Cf. note 2.
7 See note 4.

WILSON v. COOK.
474

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

to one who clears the land as payment for the clearing,
although his purpose in doing this is only to make the soil
available for tilling.'
Moreover, as the Arkansas court did hold specifically in
this case, the act contains only two exemptions, neither of
which applies to the United States. And on this ground,
together with the maxim expressio unius, it ruled the act
applicable to the severance of timber "in all instances
except the two exemptions mentioned." "
That ruling, it seems to me, is especially significant
when it is considered not only in the light of the court's
failure to make further reference to or ruling upon the
collection provisions, but also in view of the Arkansas
court's previous decisions. Thus, in Miller Lumber Co.
v. Floyd, 169 Ark. 473, 480, 275 S. W. 741, the court held:
"Where a landowner makes a contract with another person to cut and remove the timber from his land for sale
or commercial purposes, the owner must pay the severance
tax; for such contractor and his servants who actually
sever the timber act for the owner in the premises, and
their act of severing the timber is the act of the owner.""

(Emphasis added.)
8 See

note 11.

9One was for the individual owner who occasionally severs in order
to build or repair improvements on the premises or for his own use
and another for the "producer of switch ties" who hews them out
entirely by hand. 208 Ark. 459, 463, 187 S.W. 2d 7, 10.
10 The decision held the tax invalid as applied to the severance from
lands held by the United States as original owner, though not as to
those purchased with the state's consent.
1 The effect of the quoted statement is emphasized by its context,
in part as follows: "It is apparent then that the owner of lands, who
cuts down trees for the purpose of building fences or repairing and
constructing houses and other improvements on the land from the
timber thus severed from the soil is exempted from paying the tax.
It is equally evident that when the timber severed from the soil is

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLFGE, J.,

dissenting.

327 U. S.

No reference was made in this case to the Miller case.
in the absence of one we cannot assume that the court
intended to overrule that decision or to destroy its rationalization or universal applicability, except for the specific
exemptions. Not only the opinion in this case, as much
by its omissions as by what it expressly rules, but also the
Arkansas court's prior decisions, give every ground for
believing that it did not intend either to apply the tax
differently in this case than in any other or to overrule its
sold, it falls within the terms of the act, and the tax must be paid by
someone. To illustrate: if the owner of timber lands desired to sever
it for the purpose of clearing the land and putting it in cultivation and
hired other persons to sever the timber for him, he would be required
to pay the severance tax. If the owner should lease his land to another
person for a designated number of years in order to have his lessee
clear the land and put it in cultivation, and if the consideration for
the lease in whole or in part was that the lessee should have the timber
so removed from the land, the severance tax would have to be paid by
such lessee. It will be noted that the language of the act is specific
on this subject and provides that the severer or producer as he is called
shall pay the tax. The act is very broad and comprehensive, and is
levied upon all persons engaged in severing the timber from the soil
for sale or commercial purposes, regardless of the purpose for which it
is done. The only exception is that the tax shall not be paid where
the timber severed is actually used in erecting or repairing structures
and other improvements on the land. The application of the timber
in part payment for clearing the land is a severing of it for commercial
purposes, although the primary purpose of severing it is to enable the
land to be put in cultivation. Where a landowner makes a contract
with another person to cut and remove the timber from his land for
sale or commercial purposes, the owner must pay the severance tax;
for such contractor and his servants who actually sever the timber
act for the owner in the premises, and their act of severing the timber
is the act of the owner."
In a previous appeal in the same case, 160 Ark. 17, 254 S. W. 450,
the court had sustained the act as constitutional on the theory that it
was a privilege tax and not a property tax.

WILSON v. COOK.
474

RUTLEDGE, J., dissenting.

prior determinations of the ultimate nature, character and
incidence of the tax.12
The majority seem to imply however that this may be
exactly what was done; that perhaps the Arkansas court

held that since the tax would be unconstitutional if, as the
statute contemplates, it were directly placed upon the
Government as owner, it would treat the tax as falling
not on the Government but on the severer alone. As has
been stated, nothing in that court's opinion suggests such
a ruling. And if there were either a ruling or a sufficient
suggestion of this sort, it would raise other serious questions, not considered by that court or here, concerning the
validity of the tax. The effect of such a holding would
seem to be to single out contractors with the Government
for the imposition of a tax not placed on other severers.
All other contractors, by the terms of the statute and the
Arkansas decisions, would be required to pass the tax along
to owners. Only contractors with the Government would
not be allowed or required to do this. Thus to treat the
tax as applicable only to the severer in this case, and the
collection provisions affecting the owner as severable and
inapplicable, would raise serious questions of discrimination, which neither the Arkansas court nor this Court has
12 This view is sustained also by the court's expressed view that
"Imposition of the tax here does not in any sense interfere with the
Government's business." 208 Ark. 459, 468, 187 S. W. 2d 7, 12. The
statement could mean that the tax would not be applied to the Government as to other owners, in which event a severance of the collection provisions would be implied. That it does not have this meaning
is evidenced, I think, by the court's reliance on James v. Dravo Contracting Co., supra, where quite different statutory provisions were in
question. The court's misapplication of the Dravo case was, I think,
but a reflection of its implicit idea that the tax would be valid since
it was collected immediately from the appellants, even though they
might pass on its economic burden to the Government, without regard
to how that might be done.

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

considered and which appellants are entitled to have
determined.
It is true that they have not raised here any question of
discriminatory enforcement. But this is because they
had no reason to believe that the Arkansas court had applied, or would apply, the statute differently to them than
to others or to anticipate the character of the ruling now
made. It is doubtful, to say the least, that the Arkansas
legislature could place a severance tax exclusively upon
persons who sever resources from governmentally owned
land. The same doubt would apply to the state court's
effort to make the statute so effective, were it to undertake
doing this. In my judgment it has not done so. Whether
or not such an effort ultimately would be successful, appellants are entitled to be heard upon the question before
that result is achieved. They should not be deprived of
this opportunity through this Court's upholding of an
ambiguously applicable statute or in advance of a decision
by the only court which can remove the ambiguity. Because the Arkansas court has not passed upon applicability
or severability of the collection provisions as they affect
the owner, and because it has not determined the validity
of the tax as applied in the light of such a determination,
I think the cause should be remanded to it, so that the
former questions may be authoritatively determined before we undertake to decide, upon the wholly speculative
basis now presented, whether the tax as applied is valid.

