OCTOBER TERM, 1945.

608

Syllabus.

327 U. S.

JACOB SIEGEL CO. v. FEDERAL TRADE
COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 605.

Argued March 4, 1946.-Decided March 25, 1946.

In proceedings under § 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, the
Commission found that the use by petitioner of the trade name
"Alpacuna" in the marketing of its coats was deceptive and misleading and ordered petitioner to cease and desist from using it,
apparently without considering whether qualifying language would
eliminate the deception and satisfy the purposes of the Act without destroying the trade name. On review the Circuit Court of
Appeals held that the Commission's findings were supported by
substantial evidence and affirmed the order; but stated that the
prohibition was "far too harsh" and that it would modify the order
to permit use of the trade name with qualifying language, if it had
authority to do so. Held.
1. Section 5 (c) of the Federal Trade Commission Act does not
limit the reviewing court to affirmance or reversal of the Commission's order, but authorizes it to modify the order as well. P. 611.
2. The power to modify extends to the remedy. Federal Trade
Commission v. Royal Milling Co., 288 U. S. 212. P. 611.
3. While judicial review of such orders is limited, it extends to
the question whether the Commission abused its discretion in concluding that no change short of excision of the trade name would
give adequate protection. Pp. 611, 612.
4. Since trade names are valuable business assets, their destruction should not be ordered if less drastic means will accomplish the
same result. Federal Trade Commmission v. Royal Milling Co.,
supra. P. 612.
5. The test is whether some change other than the excision of
the trade name would be adequate in the judgment of the Commission. P. 613.
6. Since the Commission seems not to have considered this point,
the courts are not ready to pass on the question whether the limits
of its discretion have been exceeded in the choice of the remedy
until an administrative determination is made. P. 614.
7. The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion. P. 614.
150 F. 2d 751, reversed.

SIEGEL CO. v. TRADE COMM'N.
608

Opinion of the Court.

The Federal Trade Commission ordered petitioner to
cease and desist from using a trade name which it found
deceptive and misleading. 36 F. T. C. 563. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed. 150 F. 2d 751. This Court
granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 715. Reversed, p. 614.
Robert T. McCracken argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Leo Weinrott and C. Russell
Phillips.
Ralph F. Fuchs argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Berge, Charles H. Weston and W.
T. Kelley.
Seymour M. Klein filed a brief on behalf of a group of
retail stores, as amici curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The alpaca and the vicuna are animals whose fleece is
used in the manufacture of fabrics. The fleece of the
vicuna is, indeed, one of the finest and is extremely rare;
and fabrics made of it command a high price. Petitioner
manufactures overcoats and topcoats and markets them
under the name Alpacuna. They contain alpaca, mohair,
wool, and cotton but no vicuna.
The Federal Trade Commission in proceedings under
§ 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (52 Stat. 111,
15 U. S. C. § 45) found that petitioner had made certain
misrepresentations in the marketing of its coats. It
found, for example, that the representations that the coats
contained imported angora and guanaco were false. It
also found that the name Alpacuna is deceptive and misleading to a substantial portion of the purchasing public,
because it induces the erroneous belief that the coats contain vicuna. But there was no finding that petitioner had

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

made representations that Alpacuna in fact contained
vicuna. It accordingly issued a cease and desist order'
which, among other things, banned the use of the word
Alpacuna to describe petitioner's coats. 36 F. T. C. 563.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 150 F. 2d 751. It
held that the Commission's findings respecting the use of
the name Alpacuna were supported by substantial evidence. It was of the view, however, that the prohibition.
of the use of the name was far too harsh; and it stated that
it would have modified the order to permit Alpacuna to be
used with qualifying language had it thought that Federal
Trade Commission v. Royal Milling Co., 288 U. S. 212, was
still a controlling authority. But it concluded that that
case had been so limited by subsequent decisions of the
Court, involving other administrative agencies, that control of the remedy lay exclusively with the Commission.
The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which
we granted because of the importance of the question
presented.
'It ordered petitioner to cease and desist from
"1. Representing that respondent's coats contain guanaco hair.
"2. Representing that the Angora goat hair or mohair used in respondent's coats is imported from Turkestan or any other foreign
country.
"3. Representing through the use of drawings or pictorial representations, or in any other manner, that respondent's coats contain
fibers or materials which they do not in fact contain.
"4. Representing that coats made of fabrics which have a cotton
backing are composed entirely of wool or of wool and hair.
"5. Using any advertising matter or causing, aiding, encouraging, or
promoting the use by dealers of any advertising matter which purports
to disclose the constituent fibers or materials of coats composed in part
of cotton, unless such advertising matter clearly discloses such cotton
content along with such other fibers or materials.
"6. Using the word 'Alpacuna,' or any other word which in whole
or in part is indicative of the word 'vicuna,' to designate or describe
respondent's coats; or otherwise representing, directly or by implication, that respondent's coats contain vicuna fiber."

SIEGEL CO. v. TRADE COMM'N.
608

Opinion of the Court.

By the Federal Trade Commission Act Congress made
unlawful "unfair methods of competition in commerce,
and unfair or deceptive acts or practices in commerce . . ."
§ 5 (a). It provided that when the Commission's cease
and desist orders were challenged in the courts, the findings of the Commission "as to the facts, if supported by
evidence, shall be conclusive." § 5 (c). But it did not
limit the reviewing court to an affirmance or reversal of
the Commission's order. It gave the court power to modify
the order as well.'
The power to modify extends to the remedy as Federal
Trade Commission v. Royal Milling Co., supra, indicates.
In that case, the Commission barred the use of the words
"milling company" since the company, though blending
and mixing flour, did not manufacture it. The Court concluded that a less drastic order was adequate for the evil
at hand and remanded the case so that the Commission
might add appropriate qualifying words which would
eliminate any deception lurking in the trade name. On
the other hand, the excision of a part of the trade name
was sustained in Federal Trade Commission v. Algoma
Lumber Co., 291 U. S. 67. In that case, "California white
pine" was being used to describe what was botanically a
yellow pine. The Commission prohibited the use of the
word "white" in conjunction with "pine" to describe the
product. The Court sustained the order.
The Commission has wide discretion in its choice of a
remedy deemed adequate to cope with the unlawful practices in this area of trade and commerce. Here, as in the
case of orders of other administrative agencies under com2

Sec. 5 (c) provides that the court "shall have power to make and

enter upon the pleadings, evidence, and proceedings set forth in such
transcript a decree affirming, modifying, or setting aside the order
of the Commission, and enforcing the same to the extent that such
order is affirmed . .

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

parable statutes,' judicial review is limited. It extends no
further than to ascertain whether the Commission made
an allowable judgment in its choice of the remedy. As
applied to this particular type of case, it is whether the
Commission abused its discretion in concluding that no
change "short of the excision" of the trade name would
give adequate protection. Federal Trade Commission v.
Algoma Lumber Co., supra, pp. 81-82. The issue is
stated that way for the reason that we are dealing here
with trade names which, as Federal Trade Commission v.
Royal Milling Co., supra, p. 217, emphasizes, are valuable
business assets. The fact that they were adopted without
fraudulent design or were registered as trade-marks does
not stay the Commission's hand. FederalTrade Commission v. Algoma Lumber Co., supra, p. 79; Charles of the
Ritz DistributorsCorp. v. FederalTrade Commission, 143
F. 2d 676, 679. But the policy of the law to protect them
as assets of a business indicates that their destruction
"should not be ordered if less drastic means will accomplish the same result." Federal Trade Commission v.
Royal Milling Co., supra,p. 217. The problem is to ascertain whether that policy and the other policy of preventing unfair or deceptive trade practices can be accommodated. That is a question initially and primarily for the
Commission. Congress has entrusted it with the administration of the Act and has left the courts with only limited
powers of review. The Commission is the expert body to
determine what remedy is necessary to eliminate the unfair
or deceptive trade practices which have been disclosed.
8 See International Association of Machinists v. Labor Board, 311
U. S. 72, 82; Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 177, 194;
Virginia Electric Co. v. Labor Board, 319 U. S. 533, 543; Franks Bros.
Co. v. Labor Board, 321 U. S. 702, 704-705; Board of Trade v. United
States, 314 U. S. 534, 548; FederalSecurity Adm'r v. Quaker Oats Co.,
318 U. S. 218, 227-229; Northwestern Electric Co. v. Federal Power
Commission, 321 U. S. 119, 123-124.

SIEGEL CO. v. TRADE COMM'N.
608

Opinion of the Court.

It has wide latitude for judgment and the courts will not
interfere except where the remedy selected has no reasonable relation to the unlawful practices found to exist.
But in the present case, we do not reach the question
whether the Commission would be warranted in holding
that no qualifying language ' would eliminate the deception which it found lurking in the word Alpacuna. For
the Commission seems not to have considered whether in
that way the ends of the Act could be satisfied and the
trade name at the same time saved.' We find no indication that the Commission considered the possibility of
such an accommodation. It indicated that prohibition of
the use of the name was in the public interest since the
cease and desist order prohibited the further use of the
name.' But we are left in the dark whether some change
of name short of excision would in the judgment of the
Commission be adequate. Yet that is the test, as the
Algoma Lumber Co. and the Royal Milling Co. cases indicate. Its application involves the exercise of an in' Petitioner now uses labels reading "Alpacuna Coat---contains no
vicuna" and specifies the fibre content of the cloth. See 54 Stat. 1128,

15 U. S. C. § 68.
The opinion of the Commission goes no further than to find that
"the name 'Alpacuna' is misleading and deceptive to a substantial
portion of the purchasing public in that it represents or implies" that
the coats contain vicuna; and that as a result substantial trade is
diverted to respondent from its competitors.
6 This appears not from the opinion but from the paragraph following the order entered by the Commission:
"Commissioner Freer dissents from so much of the order as
wholly prohibits the continued use of the trade name 'Alpacuna'
for the reason that this trade name, which has been in use for
more than thirteen years, is a valuable business asset, and is
neither deceptive per se, nor is the testimony concerning its
tendency or capacity to deceive sufficiently clear and convincing
as to render such prohibition of its use necessary in the public
interest.
"A majority of the Commission do not agree with either Commissioner Freer's statements of fact or his conclusions of law."

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

formed, expert judgment.

327 U. S.

The Commission is entitled

not only to appraise the facts of the particular case and

the dangers of the marketing methods employed (Federal
Trade Commission v. Winsted Hosiery Co., 258 U. S. 483,
494) but to draw from its generalized experience. See
Republic Aviation Corp. v. Labor Board, 324 U. S. 793,
801-805. Its expert opinion is entitled to great weight in
the reviewing courts. But the courts are not ready to pass
on the question whether the limits of discretion have been

exceeded in the choice of the remedy until the administrative determination is first made.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to

the Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

M. KRAUS & BROS., INC. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 198.

Argued December 14, 1945.-Decided March 25, 1946.

1. Section 1429.5 of Revised Maximum Price Regulation No. 269
(issued December 18, 1942, under the Emergency Price Control
Act)-which provides that the price limitations on poultry prescribed by the regulation shall not be evaded by any method, direct
or indirect, whether in connection with any offer or sale of a priceregulated commodity alone "or in conjunction with any other commodity," or by way of any trade understanding "or otherwise"held not to forbid all tie-in sales but only those which involve
secondary products that are worthless or that are sold at artificial
prices. Pp. 622-626.
2. Where the information in a criminal prosecution for violations of
Revised Maximum Price Regulation No. 269 charged that the

