KENNECOTT COPPER CORP. v. TAX COMM'N. 573
Counsel for Parties.
KENNECOTT COPPER CORP. v. STATE TAX
COMMISSION ET AL.
NO. 424.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE TENTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued January 30, 31, 1946.-Decided March 25, 1946.
1. A suit by a taxpayer against the State Tax Commission of Utah
and individuals constituting the Commission to recover taxes paid
under protest, the money being segregated under § 80-11-13 of
the Utah Code Anno. 1943, and held for determination of the taxpayer's rights with provision for any deficiency for interest or costs
to be paid by the State, is a suit against the State. P. 576.
2. Section 80-11-11, Utah Code Anno. 1943, authorizing any taxpayer
who has paid taxes under protest to bring suit "in any court of
competent jurisdiction" against the officer to whom the tax was
paid "or against the state" to recover the tax, does not grant
consent to suits against the State in the federal courts. Great
Northern Ins. Co. v. Read, 322 U. S. 47; Ford Co. v. Department
of Treasury, 323 U. S. 459, followed. Pp. 577-579.
150 F. 2d 905, affirmed.

A nonresident taxpayer brought suit in a federal District
Court against the State Tax Commission of Utah and individuals constituting the Commission to recover taxes
paid under protest. The District Court gave judgment
for the plaintiff. 60 F. Supp. 181. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed, with directions to dismiss without prejudice, on the ground that it was a suit against the State
without its consent. 150 F. 2d 905. This Court granted
certiorari. 326 U. S. 711. Affirmed, p. 580.
C. C. Parsons and Charles A. Horsky argued the cause
for petitioners. With Mr. Parsons on the brief was H.
Thomas Austern.
*Together with No. 425, Silver King Coalition Mines Co. v. State
Tax Commission et al., on certiorari to the same court, argued and
decided on the same dates.

574

OCTOBER TERM. 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Arthur H. Nielsen and Zar E. Hayes, Assistant Attorneys General of Utah, argued the cause for respondents.
With them on the brief were Grover A. Giles, Attorney
General, and Wayne Christoffersen.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
Whether Utah has submitted itself to suit in the United
States District Court for the District of Utah for the
recovery of taxes alleged to be wrongfully exacted by that
State is the ultimate issue brought here by these writs of
certiorari. Preliminarily, we must decide if the present
proceeding is a suit against Utah.
Petitioners, corporations and citizens of New York and
Nevada respectively, carry on mining businesses in Utah.
That State imposes on those there engaged in the mining
business an occupation tax equal to one per cent of the
gross amount received for or the gross value of metalliferous ore sold during the preceding calendar year. The
State Tax Commission administers the Act. Utah Code
Annotated (1943) §§ 80-5-65 to 80-5-82, inclusive. For
the purposes of this opinion, it need only be said as to the
facts which give rise to this litigation, that petitioners seek
recovery of that portion of their occupation taxes for 1944
which was calculated by the Tax Commission by including
in the gross amount received by petitioners for their ore
certain subsidies for war production paid to petitioners by
the United States pursuant to an order of the Office of
Price Administration, dated February 9, 1942, No. P. M.
2458. Petitioners assert that this subsidy should not be
included in their occupational tax base. As the Tax
Commission did include the subsidies in the base after
administrative rulings which denied petitioners' claims,
petitioners each paid the total tax levied, protested that
portion thereof which was based upon the subsidy and
brought suit in the United States District Court for the
District of Utah against the State Tax Commission, and

KENNECOTT COPPER CORP. v. TAX COMM'N. 575
573

Opinion of the Court.

the individuals "constituting" it as "members," for the
recovery of the protested amount under sections of the
Utah Code (1943), set out below, which petitioners claim
authorize these proceedings.'
The causes present identical questions. They were
consolidated for trial in the District Court and separate
judgments were entered for plaintiffs against the "State
Tax Commission, et al." for the amounts claimed. 60 F.
Supp. 181. Separate appeals were perfected to the
Circuit Court of Appeals. The cases were there briefed,
argued and decided together but with separate judgments
reversing the District Court with directions to dismiss
without prejudice since it was a suit against the State
without its consent. State Tax Commission v. Kennecott Copper Corp., 150 F. 2d 905. On account of the importance of the issues, we granted certiorari to determine
whether the basis of the decisions in Great Northern Ins.
Co. v. Read, 322 U. S. 47, and Ford Co. v. Department of
1 Utah Code Anno. 1943, 804-76:

"No court of this state except the supreme court shall have jurisdiction to review, alter, or annul any decision of the tax commission or to
suspend or delay the operation or execution thereof; provided, any
taxpayer may pay his occupation tax under protest and thereafter
bring an action in any court of competent jurisdiction for the return
thereof as provided by section 80-11-11, Revised Statutes of Utah,
1933."
Id., 80-11-11 (this is identical with Revised Statutes of Utah, 1933):
"In all cases of levy of taxes, licenses, or other demands for public
revenue which is deemed unlawful by the party whose property is
thus taxed, or from whom such tax or license is demanded or enforced,
such party may pay under protest such tax or license, or any part
thereof deemed unlawful, to the officers designated and authorized by
law to collect the same; and thereupon the party so paying or his
legal representative may bring an action in any court of competent
jurisdiction against the officer to whom said tax or license was paid,
or against the state, county, municipality or other taxing unit on whose
behalf the same was collected, to recover said tax or license or any
portion thereof paid under protest."

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Treasury, 323 U. S. 459, encompassed the circumstances
of these cases. A single opinion suffices here also.
Federal jurisdiction is claimed under diversity of citizenship and because the controversy arises under the Constitution and laws of the United States. The claim is that
the inclusion of the subsidy in the tax base interferes with
the War Power of Congress and the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, 50 U. S. C. §§ 901, 902 (e), by taxing the
subsidy on surplus production over fixed quotas with the
result that a part of the subsidy was diverted from its
sole purpose of insuring the maximum necessary production. See Revenue Act of 1942, §§ 209, 735, 56 Stat.
904, 907.
As we conclude that these suits are suits against Utah
and that Utah has not consented to be sued for these alleged wrongful tax exactions in the federal courts, we
express no opinion upon the merits of the controversy.
This is a suit against the State. Utah has established
an adequate procedure for the recovery of taxes illegally
collected. When the State collects a tax under protest, the
money is segregated and held for the determination of the
taxpayers' rights with provision for any deficiency for interest or costs to be p'aid by the State.' The Mining Occu2 Utah

Code Anno. 1943, 80-11-13:
"In case any tax or license shall be paid to the state under protest,
said tax or license so paid shall not be covered into the general fund
but shall be held and retained by the state treasurer and shall not be
expended until the time for the filing of an action for the recovery of
said tax or license shall have expired, and in case an action has been
filed, until it shall have been finally determined that said tax or license
was lawfully or was unlawfully collected. If in any such action it
shall be finally determined that said tax or license was unlawfully
collected, the officer collecting said tax or license shall forthwith approve a claim for the amount of said tax or license adjudged to have
been unlawfully collected, together with costs and interest as provided
by law, and any excess amount in excess of said tax required to pay
said claim, including interest and costs, shall be repaid out of any
unappropriated funds in the hands of the state treasurer, or, in case
it is necessary, a deficit for said amount shall be authorized."

KENNECOTT COPPER CORP. v. TAX COMM'N. 577
573

Opinion of the Court.

pation Tax makes the State Tax Commission the state
agency for administration and collection of the Utah tax.
The petitioners paid their taxes to the Commission under
protest and brought these actions to recover the contested
portion.
Petitioners alleged compliance with the Act's requirements for reports, assessments and administrative remedies with payment under protest of the controverted sums
for Utah to the "State Tax Commission" only. The Commission, alone, is charged to have "exacted final payment"
and to have acquiesced in plaintiffs' demand in accordance
with statutory requirements to show payment and protest
on the Commission's books with resultant segregation of
the funds collected from Utah's general funds.
As the suits were against the Commission and the members as "constituting" such Commission, were based upon
the payment to the Commission as collector for Utah
and sought recovery of the fund, sequestered by § 8011-13, together with the interest and costs therein provided for, we are satisfied these are suits against Utah.
Mine Safety Appliances Co. v. Forrestal,326 U. S. 371;
Great Northern Ins. Co. v. Read, 322 U. S. 47, 51; Ford
Co. v. Department of Treasury, 323 U. S. 459, 462.
Upon the question of the consent of Utah to suit against
itself in the federal courts for controversies arising under
the Federal Constitution, little needs to be added to our
discussion in the Read and Ford cases. These cases declare the rule that clear declaration of a State's consent to
suit against itself in the federal court on fiscal claims is
required. The reason underlying the rule, which is discussed at length in the Read and Ford cases, is the right
of a State to reserve for its courts the primary consideration and decision of its own tax litigation because of the
direct impact of such litigation upon its finances.
Petitioners point to distinctions between the present
cases and those to which reference has just been made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

They call attention to the history of the section authorizing recovery of taxes unlawfully collected. Section
80-11-11 was enacted in 1896 without the inclusion of
the State as a possible defendant. Laws of Utah 1896, Ch.
cxxix, § 180, p. 466. It was amended in 1933 when the
words "state" and "or other taxing unit" were added.
Petitioners urge that since the phrase "in any court of

competent jurisdiction" had been assumed to permit suits
in the federal courts that practice should be read into the
word "state" when that entity was made subject to tax
suits.'
It is also urged that "any court of competent jurisdiction" has long been construed in the federal statutes as
including both state and federal courts. Our attention is
directed to § 80-5-76 limiting statutory review of administrative decisions of the Mining Occupation Tax to the
Supreme Court of the State while allowing suits for recovery of unlawful taxes paid under protest to "any court of
competent jurisdiction."
For these reasons petitioners contend that the Utah
statutes indicate an intention to permit suits against the
State in federal courts. Furthermore, petitioners find
significance in variations between the state statutes in the
Read case and the Ford case on one hand and the Utah
statutes on the other. Petitioners show that we place reliance in both cases on the procedural requirements of the
respective statutes of Oklahoma and Indiana.5 We said
in those cases that since state laws could not affect procedure in federal courts, it was to be inferred that only
state courts were included in the States' consent to suit.
8These examples of suits in federal courts were cited: Bassett v.
Utah Copper Co., 219 F. 811 (§ 80-11-11 was then § 2684); South
Utah Mines v. Beaver County, 262 U. S. 325 (§ 2684); Salt Lake
County v. Utah Copper Co., 294 F. 199; Beaver County v. South Utah
Mines & Smelters, 17 F. 2d 577.
Shoshone Mining Co. v. Rutter, 177 U. S. 505, 506.
'322 U. S. at 55; 323 U. S. at 465-66.

KENNECOTT COPPER CORP. v. TAX COMM'N. 579
573

Opinion of the Court.

The bases for inference advanced by petitioners might
logically lead to a conclusion that Utah intended to submit
the interpretation of its tax statutes to federal trial courts
where the controversies arise under federal law. On the
other hand, it may be cogently argued that the practice of
treating the federal courts as courts of competent jurisdiction under § 80-11-11 before the addition of the State
as a possible defendant resulted from the fact that consent
was not necessary for suits against counties and municipalities.8 It could be urged that grants of jurisdiction to
courts of competent jurisdiction by federal legislation for
the benefit of litigants other than the United States are
not persuasive as to the intent of a State to consent to suits
in federal courts.7 We are informed that Utah employs
explicit language to indicate, in other litigation, its consent to suits in federal courts.8 It is to be noted that the
cases under consideration illustrate the disadvantage of
deducing from equivocal language a State's consent to suit
in the federal courts on causes of action arising under state
tax statutes. The disadvantage referred to is that, if the
merits were to be passed upon, the initial interpretation of
the meaning and application of a state statute would have
to be made by a federal court without a previous authoritative interpretation of the statute by the highest court of
the State. See Spector Motor Co. v. McLaughlin, 323
U. S. 101, 103-105.
We conclude that the Utah statutes fall short of the
clear declaration by a State of its consent to be sued in
6 Lincoln County v. Luning, 133 U. S. 529; Chicot County v. Sherwood, 148 U. S. 529. See Hopkins v. Clemson College, 221 U. S. 636.
7 Compare Minnesota v. United States, 305 U. S. 382, 389.
8 Utah Code Anno. 1943, 104-3-27:
"Upon the conditions herein prescribed the consent of the state of
Utah is given to be named a party in any suit which is now pending
or which may hereafter be brought in any court of this state or of the
United States for the recovery of any property real or personal . . ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

the federal courts which we think is required before federal
courts should undertake adjudication of the claims of
taxpayers against a State.
Affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR.

JUSTICE

JACKSON took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER dissenting, with whom
JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE BURTON concur.

MR.

Even while the Civil War was raging Lincoln deemed it
important to ask Congress to authorize the Court of Claims
to render judgments against the Government. He did
so on the score of public morality. "It is," wrote Lincoln
in his First Annual Message, "as much the duty of Government to render prompt justice against itself in favor
of citizens as it is to administer the same between private
individuals. The investigation and adjudication of claims
in their nature belong to the judicial department." 7
Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents, 3245,
3252. Both the United States and the States are immune
from suit unless they agree to be sued. Though this immunity from suit without consent is embodied in the
Constitution, it is an anachronistic survival of monarchical
privilege, and runs counter to democratic notions of the
moral responsibility of the State.
Not so long ago this Court acted on the realization that
"the present climate of opinion . . . has brought governmental immunity from suit into disfavor." Keifer &
Keifer v. R. F. C., 306 U. S. 381, 391. Today the Court
treats governmental immunity from suit as though it were
a principle of justice which must be safeguarded even to
the point of giving a State's authorization to be sued the
most strained construction, whereby a federal court sitting
in Utah is made to appear not a "court of competent jurisdiction." Thus, while during the last seventy-five years
governmental immunity from suit, as a doctrine without

KENNECOTT COPPER CORP. v. TAX COMM'N. 581
573

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

moral validity, has been progressively contracted, the
Court now takes a backward step by enhancing a discredited doctrine through artificial construction.
In doing so the Court also disregards the historic relationship between the federal and the State courts. It
treats a federal court sitting in a State as though it were
the court of an alien power. The fact is that throughout
our history the courts of a State and the federal courts sitting in that State were deemed to be "courts of a common
country." Minneapolis & St. Louis R. Co. v. Bombolis,
241 U. S. 211, 222. As a result, federal rights were enforced in State courts and a federal court sitting in a State
was deemed to be "a court of that State," even as to a litigation like that of a condemnation proceeding which would
appear to be peculiarly confined to a State court. Madisonville Traction Co. v. St. Bernard Mining Co., 196 U. S.
239, 255-56; Ex parte Schollenberger, 96 U. S.369, 377;
Neirbo Co. v. Bethlehem Corp., 308 U. S.165, 171.
A State may of course limit its consent to suit in its own
courts. It may do so by explicit language or by implication through procedural requirements and restrictions
which could not be satisfied by a federal court sitting .in
the State. Such were the grounds of the recent decisions
in Great Northern Life Insurance Co. v. Read, 322 U. S.
47, and Ford Motor Co. v. Department of Treasury, 323
U. S.459. These decisions, as the Court concedes, relied
on procedural requirements of the respective statutes of
Oklahoma and Indiana which the federal courts in these
States could not meet. Therefore, those statutes impliedly
granted the State's consent to be sued only in the State
courts, for only these could meet the State's procedural
requirements.
Utah made no restriction on the right to sue. The
statute giving consent to suit merely requires the court in
which suit may be brought to be a "court of competent
jurisdiction." That the District Court for the District of

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

Utah is otherwise a "court of competent jurisdiction" is
not gainsaid. How could the State include the United
States District Court in its consent to be sued in a "court
of competent jurisdiction" short of stating explicitly that a
"court of competent jurisdiction" shall include the federal
courts? The opinion does not say that nothing short of
such specific authorization to sue in the federal court gives
the State's consent to be sued there. But if such a formal
requirement be the meaning of the present decision, it
runs counter to a long course of adjudication and pays undue )obeisance to a doctrine, that of governmental immunity from suit, which, whatever claims it may have,
does not have the support of any principle of justice.
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR ET AL. V.
WATSON, ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 448. Argued February 8, 1946.-Decided March 25, 1946.
1. Section 24 (8) of the Judicial Code, granting federal district courts
jurisdiction of all "suits and proceedings arising under any law
regulating commerce," applies to a suit seeking to protect rights
asserted under the National Labor Relations Act. P. 589.
2. Section 266 of the Judicial Code, providing that only a three-judge
court may issue an interlocutory injunction suspending or restraining "the enforcement, operation, or execution of any statute of a
State," applies to a suit in a federal court to enjoin the enforcement
of a provision of a state constitution. P. 591.
(a) The policy underlying § 266 admits no distinction between
state action to enforce a constitutional provision and state action
to enforce an act of the legislature. P. 592.
(b) The word "statute" in § 266 is a compendious summary of
various enactments, by whatever method they may be adopted, to
which a State gives her sanction and is at least sufficiently inclusive
to embrace constitutional provisions. P. 592.
3. Where a state attorney general has construed a provision of the
state constitution as outlawing all closed-shop agreements with

