372

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.,

327 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. PETTY MOTOR CO.
NO.

77.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE TENTH CIRCUIT.*
Argued December 6, 1945.-Decided February 25, 1946.
The United States in 1942 acquired by condemnation for public use
a building then occupied by tenants holding under leases for various terms. The use taken was for a period ending June 30, 1945,
with the right of surrender in 1943 or 1944 on 60 days notice to
the owner. An order for immediate possession was entered, and
tenants were given notices varying from six to twenty days to
vacate. Held:
1. Since termination earlier of the period for which the property
was taken was wholly at the election of the United States, the
taking must be deemed a taking for public use until June 30,
1945. P. 374.
2. The measure of damages is the value of the use and occupancy
of the leasehold for the remainder of the tenant's term, less the
amount of the rent which the tenant agreed to pay for such use
and occupancy. P. 381.
3. A tenant whose lease contained a "termination by condemnation" clause was without any right of recovery. P. 375.
4. Tenants whose leases were for terms shorter than the period
for which the property was taken for public use were not entitled
to have costs of removal or relocation considered as elements of
"value" of their rights under the unexpired portions of their
leases. United States v. General Motors Corp.., 323 U. S. 373,
distinguished. P. 378.
5. In the case of tenancies at will, determination of the remainder of the term will depend upon the requirements of state
law as to notice for the termination of such tenancies. P. 380.
6. In the case of a tenant whose lease contained a right of renewal for a year, the value of that right (if it continued under
*Together with No. 78, United States v. Brockbank, doing business as Brockbank Apparel Co.; No. 79, United States v. Grimsdell,
doing business as Grocer Printing Co.; No. 80, United States v. Wiggs,
doing business as Chicago Flexible Shaft Co.; No. 81, United States
v. Independent Pneumatic Tool Co.; No. 82, United.States v. Galigher
Co.; and No. 83, United States v. Gray-Cannon Lumber Co., on
certiorari to the same court, argued and decided on the same dates.

UNITED STATES v. PETTY MOTOR CO. 373
372

Opinion of the Court.

the state law) must be added to the value of the unexpired term
of the lease. P. 380.
147 F. 2d 912, reversed.

Proceedings instituted by the United States for the
condemnation of a building for temporary public use resulted in verdicts for the tenants. On appeal by the
United States the circuit court of appeals affirmed. 147
F. 2d 912. This Court granted certiorari. 325 U. S.
848. Reversed, p. 381.
Arnold Raum argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General
Judson, J. Edward Williams, Roger P. Marquis and
Wilma C. Martin.
Shirley P. Jones argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief was Charles D. Moore.
Philip S. Ehrlich filed a brief for the Zellerbach Paper
Company, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
This writ of certiorari under Judicial Code ยง 240 brings
here for review certain problems relating to the just compensation for tenants in condemnation proceedings to take
their entire leaseholds when the United States had already
taken over the lessors' interest in the property which the
tenants occupy. Certiorari was granted to consider the
holding of the circuit court of appeals, 147 F. 2d 912,
affirming the judgments of the district court, that evidence
by a tenant of the costs of moving and reinstallation of
equipment was admissible to establish the value of his
leasehold under the rule announced in United States v.
General Motors Corp., 323 U. S. 373. As this issue presents an important phase of the law of eminent domain,'
we granted certiorari. 325 U. S. 848.
See United States v. 10,620 Square Feet in CanadianPacific Bldg.,
62 F. Supp. 115.
1

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 V. S.

These cases arise out of a petition for condemnation of
the temporary use for public purposes of a building in Salt
Lake City, Utah, filed November 9, 1942, which sought
to take the use of the building for the Government through
June 30, 1945, with the right of election upon the part of
the United States to surrender the premises on June 30,
1943, or June 30, 1944, upon sixty days written notice to
the owner.' The owner and tenants were parties defendant. An order for immediate possession was entered on
November 11, 1942, subject to authorization to the tenants to continue their occupation of their premises for
short periods which varied from six to twenty days.
While the condemnation proceedings were pending the
owner of the property made arrangements with the United
States which resulted in the dismissal of the action against
the owner. There is no claim by the United States that
this arrangement released it from liability to the tenants
for its taking of their leaseholds. As the value of the use
of the totality of property, which was taken, thus lost all
meaning, the Government accepts a separate responsibility to compensate the tenants for any legally recognized
interest which they may have in the property. See
Duckett & Co. v. United States, 266 U. S. 149.
Although an earlier surrender might occur by the election of the United States, the estate sought did not necessarily expire until June 30, 1945. Prompt possession was
required from the tenants and all of them were required
by the order of possession to vacate the premises which
they occupied within various short periods of which
twenty days was the longest. The judgments stated the
issue was the amount due the tenants for the taking of
their occupancy of their premises and found in dollars
the just compensation for the rights taken. These facts,
2 No one questions the authority of the United States to condemn
this temporary interest. Second War Powers Act, 56 Stat. 177, ยง 201.
United States v. General Motors Corp., 323 U. S. 373.

UNITED STATES v. PETTY MOTOR CO. 375
372

Opinion of the Court.

we conclude, resulted in the taking by the United States
of the temporary use of the building until June 30, 1945.
When the shortening of the term is wholly at the election
of the lessee, the term of the leasehold for the purpose of
determining the extent of the taking must be considered
to be its longest limit.! All rights of all the tenants, except
the Independent Pneumatic Tool Company, which is one
of the respondents here, terminated before the end of the
Government's lease by the lapse of time or, in the case of
the Tool Company, by a "termination on condemnation"
clause. With the exception of the Petty Motor Company
and the Independent Pneumatic Tool Company, the tenants were tenants under oral contracts on a month to
month basis. This entitled them only to notice of termination fifteen days prior to the end of a rental period.
Utah Code Ann. (1943), Title 104-60-3 (2). The Petty
Motor Company held a lease which expired October 31,
1943, with an option for an additional year. Consequently
its rights under its lease ended before those which the
Government sought by its petition.
The lease of the Independent Pneumatic Tool Company included a clause for its termination on the Federal
Government's entry into possession of the leased property
for public use.' The events connected with the Government's entry just set out appear to meet the requirements
8In United States v. General Motors Corp., 323 U. S. 373, note 3,
a different situation existed. While the estate there sought did not
necessarily expire during the existing national emergency, the order
for possession, the verdict and the judgment were for that part of the
leasehold interest in the property extending from June 19, 1942, to
June 30, 1943. We said: "The case now presented involves only the
original taking for one year. If, on remand, the case be treated as
involving the Government's option of renewal, the additional value
of that interest must be included in the compensation awarded."
The clause reads as follows:
"If the whole or any part of the demised premises shall be taken
by Federal, State, county, city, or other authority for public use, or

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

for termination. This does not seem to be controverted.
The contention of the Tool Company, as we understand
it, is that the tenant is barred from claiming any "of
the award of the landlord" but that the condemnor is
not relieved of liability to the lessee. This position seems
inconsistent. If the Tool Company, with its termination
on condemnation clause, was the only tenant and condemnation of all interests in the property was decreed,
the landlord would take the entire compensation because
the lessee would have no rights against the fund. There
would appear to be no greater right where the landlord
has been otherwise satisfied. Condemnation proceedings
are in rem, Duckett & Co. v. United States, 266 U. S. 149;
United States v. Dunnington, 146 U. S. 338, 350-54, and
compensation is made for the value of the rights which
are taken. United States v. General Motors Corp., 323
U. S. 373, 379. The Tool Company had contracted away
any rights that it might otherwise have had. We are
dealing here with a clause for automatic termination of
the lease on a taking of property for public use by governmental authority. With this type of clause, at least
in the absence of a contrary state rule, the tenant has no
right which persists beyond the taking and can be entitled
to nothing.'
under any statute, or by right of eminent domain, then when possession shall be taken thereunder of said premises, or any part thereof,
the term hereby granted and all rights of the Lessee hereunder shall
immediately cease and terminate, and the Lessee shall not be entitled
to any part of any award that may be made for such taking, nor
to any damages therefor except that the rent shall be adjusted as of
the date of such termination of the Lease."
5See United States v. 10,620 Square Feet in CanadianPacific Bldg.,
62 F. Supp. 115; United States v. 8286 Sq. Ft. of Space, 61 F. Supp.
737, 740-43; United States v. 21,815 Square Feet of Land, 59 F. Supp.
219; United States v. 3.5 Acres of Land, 57 F. Supp. 548; United
States v. Improved Premises, 54 F. Supp. 469, 472; Goodyear Shoe
Machinery Co. v. Boston Terminal Co., 176 Mass. 115, 57 N. E. 214.
Cf. United States v. Entire Fifth Floor in Butterick Bldg., 54 F.
Supp. 258.

UNITED STATES v. PETTY MOTOR CO. 377
372

Opinion of the Court.

In order to inform the jury as to the value of the tenants'
interests where there was a right to continue the occupation of their respective premises, the trial court permitted
the introduction of evidence, over the Government's objections, not only as to the value on the market of the use
and occupancy, over and above the agreed rent, for any
remainder of a term which may have existed in the respective tenants after they were dispossessed, but also
allowed evidence of the expenses incurred in moving and
the reinstallation of equipment. The trial court's instructions made clear that the evidence was submitted to the
jury not for a finding on the cost to the tenants of relocating their businesses but as an element in determining the
"value" of their tenancies for that portion of their term
which was left upon the termination of the lease. The admission of the evidence and its submission to the jury was
approved by the circuit court of appeals on the theory
that consideration of such elements of cost was compelled
by the GeneralMotors case. 323 U. S. 373. The court of
appeals recognized that here the Government took the
entire term of all the lessees except the Tool Company
and possibly the Petty Motor Company but was of the
opinion that the principles of the General Motors case applied when any leasehold was taken. 147 F. 2d 912, 914.
In so holding, the court of appeals was in error.
The Constitution and the statutes do not define the
meaning of just compensation. But it has come to be
recognized that just compensation is the value of the interest taken. This is not the value to the owner for his
particular purposes or to the condemnor for some special
use but a so-called "market value." It is recognized that
an owner often receives less than the value of the property to him but experience has shown that the rule is
reasonably satisfactory. Since "market value" does not
fluctuate with the needs of condemnor or condemnee but
with general demand for the property, evidence of loss of

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

profits, damage to good will, the expense of relocation and
other such consequential losses are refused in federal condemnation proceedings. Mitchell v. United States, 267
U. S. 341, 344; United States ex rel. T. V. A. v. Powelson,
319 U. S. 266, 281; Potomac Electric Power Co. v. United

States, 66 App. D. C. 77, 85 F. 2d 243; Orgel, Valuation
under Eminent Domain, chap. V. For the purposes of
these cases, it is immaterial whether the Government
actually took the leaseholds of the tenants in addition to
taking the temporary use of the fee or only destroyed the
tenants' right of occupancy. If any property is taken,
compensation is required. Cf. United States v. Welch, 217

U. S. 333.
There was a complete taking of the entire interest of
the tenants in the property. It has been urged that to
measure just compensation for the taking of a leasehold
by its value on the market or by the difference between
a fair rental as of the time of taking and the agreed rent,
is unfair. It is said the unfairness comes from the fact
that there is really no market for leaseholds; that their
value is something peculiarly personal to the lessee.' The
same thing is true as to incidental and consequential damages to the owner of a fee. We think the sounder rule
under the federal statutes is to treat the condemnation
of all interests in a leasehold like the condemnation of all
interests in the fee. In neither situation should evidence
of the cost of removal or relocation be admitted. Such
costs are apart from the value of the thing taken. They
are personal to the lessee." The lessee would have to
6 See MetropolitanWest Side Elevated R. Co. v. Siegel, 161 Ill. 638,
44 N. E. 276; McMillin Printing Co. v. Pittsburg, C. & W. R. Co.,
216 Pa. 504, 65'A. 1091.
I Compare United States v. Improved Premises, 54 F. Supp. 469,
472; United States v. Entire Fifth Floor in Butterick Bldg., idem,
261; United States v. CertainParcels of Land, idem, 562; Win. Wrigley, Jr., Co. v. United States, 75 Ct. Cls. 569; Thermal Syndicate, Ltd.
v. United States, 81 Ct. Cls. 446, 454.

UNITED STATES v. PETTY MOTOR CO. 379
372

Opinion of the Court.

move at the end of his term unless the lease was renewed.
The compensation for the value of his leasehold covers
the loss from the premature termination except in the
unusual situation where there is a higher cost for present
relocation than for a future.
United States v. General Motors Corp. was a different
case. In it only a portion of the lease was taken. We
there said, p. 382:
"When it takes the property, that is, the fee, the
lease, whatever he may own, terminating altogether
his interest, under the established law it must pay
him for what is taken, not more; and he must stand
whatever indirect or remote injuries are properly
comprehended within the meaning of 'consequential
damage' as that conception has been defined in such
cases. Even so the consequences often are harsh.
For these whatever remedy may exist lies with Congress."
There is a fundamental difference between the taking of
a part of a lease and the taking of the whole lease. That
difference is that the lessee must return to the leasehold
at the end of the Government's use or at least the responsibility for the period of the lease which is not taken rests
upon the lessee. This was brought out in the General
Motors decision.' Because of that continuing obligation
U. S. 373, 380, 383:
"The question posed in this case then is, shall a different measure of
compensation apply where that which is taken is a right of temporary occupancy of a building equipped for the condemnee's business,
filled with his commodities, and presumably to be reoccupied and
used, as before, to the end of the lease term on the termination of the
Government's use?"
"Some of the elements which would certainly and directly affect
the market price agreed upon by a tenant and a sublessee in such'
an extraordinary and unusual transaction would be the reasonable
cost of moving out the property stored and preparing the space for
occupancy by the subtenant. That cost would include labor, materials, and transportation. And it might also include the storage
8 323

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

in all takings of temporary occupancy of leaseholds, the
value of the rights of the lessees which are taken may be
affected by evidence of the cost of temporary removal.
Upon a new trial, each tenant, other than the Independent Pneumatic Tool Company, should be permitted
to prove damages for the condemnation of its rights for
any remainder of its term which existed after its ouster by
the order of possession but not costs of moving or relocation.' The remainder which may exist will depend upon
the Utah law on the requirement for notice to terminate
the tenancies at will." Some tenants of this group will
not be entitled to anything because the notice given them
by the order of possession is more than the Utah statutory
requirement. The value of the remainder of the term
of the Petty Motor Company's lease includes the value of
of goods against their sale or the cost of their return to the leased
premises. Such items may be proved, not as independent items of
damage but to aid in the determination of what would be the usualthe market-price which would be asked and paid for such temporary occupancy of the building then in use under a long-term
lease."
9 The fact that some tenants had occupied their leaseholds by mutual
consent for long periods of years does not add to their rights. Emery
v. Boston Terminal Co., 178 Mass. 172, 185, 59 N. E. 763:
"It appeared that the owners had been in the habit of renewing the
petitioners' lease from time to time, and an attempt was made to give
this fact the aspect of an English customary tenant right. The evidence merely showed that the landlords and the tenants were mutually
satisfied and were likely to keep on together. It added nothing except
by way of corroboration to the testimony that they both intended to
keep on. Changeable intentions are not an interest in land, and although no doubt such intentions may have added practically to the
value of the petitioners' holding, they could not be taken into account
in determining what the respondent should pay. They added nothing to the tenants' legal rights, and legal rights are all that must be
paid for. Even if such intentions added to the saleable value of the
lease, the addition would represent a speculation on a chance, not a
legal right. The court was right in excluding expert evidence as to an
increase in value from that source."
0 United States ex rel. T. V. A. v. Powelson, 319 U. S. 266, 279.

UNITED STATES v. PETTY MOTOR CO. 381
372

RUTLEDGE, J., concurring.

the right to a renewal for a year, if such right continues
under Utah law, as well as the value of the period ending
October 31, 1943. The measure of damages is the value
of the use and occupancy of the leasehold for the remainder of the tenant's term, plus the value of the right to
renew in the lease of Petty, less the agreed rent which the
tenant would pay for such use and occupancy.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON
took no part in the consideration or decision of these
cases.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring.

I agree with the result and with the Court's opinion,
but with an important reservation which I think should
be made expressly.
In United States v. General Motors Corp., 323 U. S. 373,
the problem was stated as one of first impression, namely,
to ascertain the just compensation the Fifth Amendment
requires where, under power of eminent domain, temporary occupancy of part of a leased building is taken
from a tenant holding under a long-term lease. The
Court distinguished the case from others where the taking
is of the owner's entire interest, whether a fee, a term of
years or some other interest. Sensing the danger of applying to such a situation the strict rules limiting the
amount of compensation in the latter types of cases, the
Court said this would open a way for the Government to
devise its condemnation, by chopping the owner's interest into bits, taking some and leaving him with others
in suspended animation, so that the Amendment's guaranty might become an instrument of confiscation, not one
of just compensation for what was taken. Such a procedure, the Court further stated, would be "neither the
'taking' nor the 'just compensation' the Fifth Amendment
contemplates." 323 U. S. at 382.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE, J.,

concurring.

327 U. S.

The novelty of such a form of taking, together with the
obviously confiscatory consequences, in a practical sense,
for the owner, led the Court to hold that the usual measure
of just compensation applicable when all the owner's
leasehold is condemned, namely, payment of only the
long-term rental of an empty building fixed by the terms
of his lease or by market value, or less, would not suffice
to compensate for carving out of the lease a right of
"temporary use." Other elements were required to be
taken into account as evidence of the value of what was
taken.
These included (1) "what would be the market rental
value of such a building on a lease by the long-term
tenant to the temporary occupier," 323 U. S. at 382, which
in addition to the bearing of the long-term rental as one
element would include as other elements affecting "certainly and directly . . . the market price agreed upon by
a tenant and a sublessee in such an extraordinary and
unusual transaction," 323 U. S. at 383, (2) the reasonable
cost of moving out the property stored on the premises
and of preparing the space for occupancy by the subtenant, including the cost of labor, materials and transportation; and possibly also the cost of storage of goods
removed against their sale or the cost of their return
to the premises. In addition, for fixtures and permanent
equipment destroyed or depreciated in value by reason
of the taking, the Court held that the tenant whose lease
was so cut up was entitled to compensation as for property taken, under the settled rule of cited authorities. 323
U. S. at 383.
Finally, in a footnote the Court pointed out that after
judgment the Government had been allowed to amend its
petition so as to include in the interest taken a yearly
right of renewal, after which the trial court entered a new
judgment for the original figure. Stating that these facts
were not taken to alter the question presented here, which
involved only the original taking for one year, the Court

UNITED STATES v. PETTY MOTOR CO. 383
372

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

went on expressly to rule: "If, on remand, the case be
treated as involving the Government's option of renewal,
the additional value of that interest must be included in
the compensation awarded." .323 U. S. at 376, note 3.
Thus the Court applied a rule of compensation to the
case of carving out a temporary or short-term use from a
longer term very different from that generally applicable
when the owner's entire interest is taken. The purpose
and the basis for this were to give substance, in practical
effect, to the Amendment's explicit mandate for payment
of "just compensation" in cases of such extraordinary
"takings" and to prevent thosewords from being whittled
down by legalistic construction into means for practical
confiscation.
In this case the Court has construed all of the takings
as being of the tenant-owners' entire interests. This is
clearly the case, on the record, with respect to all except
Petty Motor Co. As to it I have doubt but I accept the
Court's construction that the Government has condemned
its entire leasehold interest in the premises and therefore must pay the full value of that term according to the
usual rules in such cases.
My reservation, however, has to do with a possibility
this record does not present as an accomplished fact in
the case of the Petty Co., but does present as a contingency
which might be realized and, in that event, would have a
direct and inescapable relation to the ruling concerning the
quantum of compensation in the General Motors case.
In that case the interest taken was for one year out of
a twenty-year term which had six years to run from the
time of the original condemnation. There was also added
by the later amendment the right of renewal from year
to year which, if exercised, might have extended the term
taken to the end of the leasehold interest.
In this case a converse sort of taking is presented by
the Petty Motor situation. That company held a lease
expiring October 31, 1943, with an option for an additional

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

327 U. S.

year which if exercised would extend the term to October
31, 1944. The condemnation petition was filed November 9, 1942, when the Petty lease had almost one year to
run in any event and two if the option should be exercised.
The Government sought to take the use of the building
through June 30, 1945, but with the option to surrender
the premises on June 30, 1943, or June 30, 1944, on giving
sixty days advance notice in writing.
It is this option which I think makes dubious the ruling
that all of the Petty Motor Company's interest was
"taken." In my opinion it was only "taken" contingently.
For, if the option is valid, quite obviously the Government
was free to surrender, by giving notice, on June 30, 1943,
in which event Petty's lease would have been in force until
the following October 31 in any event, or on June 30, 1944,
in which case Petty's lease might have continued in force
until October 31, 1944. In either event the case would
have fallen squarely within the General Motors situation
and ruling.
In my opinion that ruling and the requirement of
paying compensation according to the measure it prescribes apply whether the Government carves out part
of the tenant-owner's term by one method of stating what
it takes or another. That is, for this purpose, it makes
no difference whether the Government "takes" the temporary use for part of the term but adds to this a right
of renewal periodically which if exercised will extend the
term taken beyond the term of the lease; or, on the other
hand, purports to take a term which extends beyond that
of the leasehold interest, but reserves the right to cut
this down periodically so that in fact it may surrender
the premises before the leasehold expires and thus carve
out of it a shorter term, just as in the General Motors
taking.
Whether the chopping up is accomplished one way
or the other, the effects for the owner are the same, the
"taking" is in substance the same, and the compensation

LABOR BOARD v. CHENEY LUMBER CO. 385
372

Syllabus.

is required, under the General Motors decision, to be the
same. That ruling cannot be avoided by inverting the
length of the term specified and, correlatively, the character of the option added. Nor can it be avoided by
construing the term taken, in view of the contingent
option, in cases of the Petty type as including all of the
interest of the lessee, if in fact the Government exercises
the option and surrenders the premises before the lessee's
term expires. Upon such a showing the General Motors
rule would apply and the owner-lessee would be entitled
to recover compensation including all of the elements
specified in that rule, subject only to making proof of

them.
This question I think sufficiently important to be explicitly reserved for decision when a case arises requiring
application of the General Motors rule to such a situation.
I do not understand the Court to rule to the contrary,
since there is no showing on this record that the Government has exercised its option. I therefore concur in the
decision as it is rendered upon the record which has been
presented.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v.
CHENEY CALIFORNIA LUMBER CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 319. Argued January 9, 10, 1946.-Decided February 25, 1946.
1. Upon findings that an employer had engaged in unfair labor practices in violation of ยง 8 of the National Labor Relations Act, the
National Labor Relations Board ordered the employer to cease
and desist from (a) prohibited discrimination against employees
in regard to hire or tenure, and "(b) In any other manner interfering with, restraining, or coercing its employees in the exercise
of the right to self-organization, to form, join, or assist labor
organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives of
their own choosing, and to engage in concerted activities, for the
purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection,

