DUGGAN v. SANSBERRY.

499

Statement of the Case.
DUGGAN, TRUSTEE,
NO. 418.

v. SANSBERRY, TRUSTEE.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued February 6, 1946.-Decided March 4, 1946.
1. In a federal court in which a petition for reorganization of a corporation under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act had been approved
and reorganization proceedings were pending, a petition was filed
for reorganization under Chapter X of an alleged subsidiary against
which a bankruptcy proceeding was then pending in another federal
court. The reorganization court ordered a stay of a scheduled
sale of the property of the alleged subsidiary in the bankruptcy
proceeding. Held that the order of the reorganization court was
binding upon the bankruptcy court and was not there subject to
collateral attack. Pp. 501, 504.
2. It was the duty of the bankruptcy court to obey the stay order
of the reorganization court, irrespective of whether the petition
for reorganization of the alleged subsidiary had been properly filed.
P. 504.
3. Since the interested parties had an opportunity in the reorganization proceeding to secure a determination of the question whether
a parent-subsidiary relationship existed between the corporations,
the same issue should not be tried collaterally in the bankruptcy
proceeding. P. 507.
4. Section 149 of the Bankruptcy Act, which provides that "An
order, which has become final, approving a petition filed under
this chapter shall be a conclusive determination of the jurisdiction
of the court," can not be construed as allowing a collateral attack
in the bankruptcy court upon the proceedings in the reorganization
court. P. 508.
5. Under its constitutional power on the subject of bankruptcies,
Congress may proscribe collateral attack in bankruptcy proceedings
on proceedings initiated in a reorganization court. P. 510.
149 F. 2d 548, reversed.

Christopher Engineering Company petitioned for reorganization under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act in
*Together with No. 419, National Aircraft Corp. v. Sansberry,
Trustee, also on certiorari to the same court, argued and decided on
the same dates.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

the District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri,
which appointed Duggan as trustee. Subsequently, an
involuntary petition in bankruptcy was filed by its creditors against National Aircraft Corporation in the District
Court for the Southern District of Indiana, which appointed Sansberry as trustee. Later an order was entered
directing that National's property be offered for public
sale. On the day before the sale, a petition was filed on
behalf of National in the reorganization proceedings of
Christopher in the Missouri District Court, which issued
a decree finding that National was a wholly owned subsidiary of Christopher and enjoining the sale of National's
property. The sale nevertheless was made, approved and
confirmed. Upon petitions for review filed by Duggan
and the National Aircraft Corporation, the District Court
affirmed the referee's order. Its decision was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals. 149 F. 2d 548. This Court
granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 709. Reversed and remanded
for further proceedings, p. 511.
Geo. 0. Durham argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the brief were Luke E. Hart and Noah Weinstein.
Isidore Feibleman and Charles B. Feibleman argued
the cause for respondent. With them on the brief was
Ralph Bamberger.

Opinion of the Court by MR. JUSTICE
nounced by MR. JUSTICE MURPHY.

RUTLEDGE,

an-

These cases involve, as the Circuit Court of Appeals
said, 149 F. 2d 548, "a clash of jurisdiction" between two
District Courts. They raise important questions as to the
construction of certain sections of Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U. S. C. § 501 et seq. Two corporations,
Christopher Engineering Company and National Aircraft

DUGGAN v. SANSBERRY.
499

Opinion of the Court.

Corporation, are concerned, as is the question of their
relationship as parent and subsidiary corporations.
On December 27, 1943, Christopher Engineering Company filed a petition for reorganization under Chapter X
in the District Court for the Eastern Division of the Eastern Judicial District of Missouri. On the same day the
petition was approved as properly filed and petitioner
Duggan was appointed trustee. Approximately a month
later, January 21, 1944, an involuntary petition in ordinary bankruptcy was filed by its creditors against National
Aircraft Corporation, which petitioner Duggan claims was
a subsidiary of Christopher, in the District Court for the.
Southern District of Indiana.1 A petition for the appointment of a receiver in bankruptcy for National was filed
and referred to a referee who took the matter under advisement after holding a hearing at which Duggan, as
trustee of Christopher, appeared by his attorney. On February 7, 1944, the involuntary petition being unopposed,
the referee entered an order of adjudication, and the following day appointed respondent Sansberry as receiver.
On March 7, 1944, the first meeting of National's creditors was held. At that meeting Brown, its secretarytreasurer, testified that in December, 1942, he and A. B.
Christopher' had purchased all the capital stock of National and that, although the certificates had been turned
over to Duggan, "there is no reason that he [Brown]
knows of why such capital stock should be considered as
the property of Christopher Engineering Company instead of the property of himself and Christopher, individ1On January 19, 1944, an Indiana state court appointed a receiver
for National. The receiver never qualified, however, the qualification
having been delayed because of a restraining order entered by the
District Judge in the Christopher reorganization proceedings.
2A. B. Christopher was president of the Christopher Engineering
Company and Brown was vice president of the same company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

ually." At this meeting,also the receiver Sansberry was
selected as trustee in bankruptcy for National.
On March 21, 1944, Sansberry, acting as trustee, filed
a petition for an order authorizing him to offer for sale
and to sell the tangible personal property and the real
estate belonging to National. The referee ordered that a
meeting of creditors be held to consider this petition.
Notice of the meeting was sent to Duggan and also to the
attorneys for Brown. The meeting was held on April 4,
1944. Neither Duggan nor Brown appeared. No objection .to the proposed sale was made except by the United
States Army Air Force, which claimed certain personal
property. But it was expressly stated on its behalf that
there was no objection to the entering of an order for the
sale covering any other property of National. On April
6 the referee entered an order directing that the real and
personal property of National, with certain exceptions,
be offered for public sale on April 20, 1944. Notice of
the sale was sent to Duggan and Brown among others.
On April 19, the day prior to the sale, a petition was filed
on behalf of National in the reorganization proceedings of
Christopher in the Missouri District Court.' On the same
day that court issued an injunction against holding the
sale of National's property. The decree contained a finding that National is a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Christopher Engineering Company.
Immediately preceding the sale on April 20, copies of
the injunction order were served upon Sansberry and the
auctioneer; but they proceeded with the sale. On May 3,
after the trustee had filed his report to the effect that the
The petition was signed "National Aircraft Corporation, a corporation, By J. M. Brown, Petitioner." It recited that "the majority
of the capital stock of this subsidiary corporation having power to

vote for the election of directors is owned directly by the debtor or
indirectly through nominees."

DUGGAN v. SANSBERRY.
499

Opinion of the Court.

sale had been advantageous and after a hearing had been
held, the referee approved and confirmed the sale. He
then granted petitions for review of this order which were

filed by Duggan and by the National Aircraft Corporation
per Brown.

The District Court affirmed the referee's

order, as did the Circuit Court of Appeals, one judge concurring specially and one dissenting.
granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 709.

149 F. 2d 548.

We

The Circuit Court of Appeals held, in the first place, that
for the District Court in Missouri to obtain jurisdiction
over National and its assets, it had to be established as a

"jurisdictional fact" that "National was a subsidiary of
Christopher, not only on April 19, 1944, but on December
27, 1943, when Christopher filed its petition for reorganization, and also on January 21, 1944, when the involuntary
petition in bankruptcy against National was filed [in the
District Court] in Indiana." This fact, the court found,
In granting the petitions for review, the referee noted that "neither
petition was in duplicate as required by Rule 19 of the Rules of the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Indiana, and neither petition was accompanied by brief as required by
said Rule." He also noted that copies of the petitions had not been
served upon the trustee, as required by the provisions of § 39 (c) of
the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U. S. C. § 67 (c). He stated: "It seems obvious that the failure of the petitioners for review to comply with the
Rules of Court and the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act in respect to
the filing of such petitions would justify the denial thereof. In order,
however, to resolve all doubts in favor of the petitioners and so that
the matter may be presented to the Judge of the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Indiana, the Referee finds that said
petition should be granted." The referee's granting of the petitions,
despite petitioners' failure to comply with § 39 (c), appears to be
justified because the record indicates that the trustee waived service.
It has been said that the requirement of service is not jurisdictional.
2 Collier, Bankruptcy (14th ed.) § 39.24, n. 15.
The referee denied petitions for a stay of enforcement of the order
approving and confirming the sale. No appeal was taken from the
order of denial.

5104

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
-Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

had not been established; for the order of the Missouri
court did not state that Christopher owned any stock of
National prior to April 19, 1944; and, as April 19 was the
date as of which the Missouri court's determination was
effective, "we must presume that there was no evidence
before it that the relationship existed earlier." 149 F.
2d at 550.
In the second place, the Court of Appeals held that
under Chapter X, when a subsidiary corporation has been
adjudicated a bankrupt in one District Court and its property is transferred to a trustee, it may not file a petition
for reorganization in another District Court where the
reorganization proceeding of its parent is pending.' And
finally the court held that the petition for reorganization
was improperly filed in any case, since it was not shown
that Brown was authorized to file it.
We come to different conclusions. Regardless of
whether National's petition for reorganization in the Missouri proceedings was properly filed on April 19, the
Indiana court, on being notified that the petition had been
filed and approved' and that an injunction had issued,
should have stayed immediately the sale of National's
assets. Section 113, 11 U. S. C. § 513, provides with respect to reorganization proceedings: "Prior to the approval of a petition, the judge may upon cause shown
grant a temporary stay, until the petition is approved or
dismissed, of a prior pending bankruptcy, mortgage foreclosure or equity receivership proceeding and of any act
or other proceeding to enforce a lien against a debtor's
property, and may upon cause shown enjoin or stay until
5 See

149 F. 2d at 551-552 for the court's construction of the statute
which led it to this conclusion, and compare the dissenting opinion,
149 F. 2d at 553, for a different construction.
8
The petition was approved on the same day that it was filed. See
notes 7 and 11.

DUGGAN v. SANSBERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

499

the petition is approved or dismissed the commencement
or continuation of a suit against a debtor." It was on the
authority of this section, we may assume,7 that the injunction staying the sale of National's property was issued.
As interpreted 8 the section declares that when a petition
for reorganization has been filed by a corporation, the
judge may stay pending proceedings. It does not differentiate between petitions filed by parent corporations and
petitions filed by subsidiaries, nor does it distinguish petitions which have been filed correctly from those which
have been filed erroneously with the reorganization court.
It thus applies to National, whose petition for reorganization had been filed and against which a bankruptcy proceeding was pending.
Opportunity was afforded to interested parties to come
into the reorganization proceeding in order to show that
National's petition should not have been approved. See
7 For the purposes of this case it is not necessary to decide whether
the applicable section is § 113 or § 148, and we therefore expressly
reserve that question.
Section 148 provides: "Until otherwise ordered by the judge, an
order approving a petition shall operate as a stay of a prior pending

bankruptcy, mortgage foreclosure, or equity receivership proceeding,
and of any act or other proceeding to enforce a lien against the debtor's
property." It might be urged that this section would apply since the
petition had been "approved" in the sense of § 141, 11 U. S. C. § 541,
which provides: "Upon the filing of a petition by a debtor, the judge
shall enter an order approving the petition, if satisfied that it complies
with the requirements of this chapter and has been filed in good faith,
or dismissing it if not so satisfied"; and that therefore, under § 148,
the bankruptcy proceeding was automatically stayed and it was
unnecessary for the injunction to issue.
The alternative view would be that the meaning of "approve" as
used in §§ 113 and 148 is not the ex parte approval given immediately
upon the filing of a petition under § 141 but the approval given after
adversary proceedings under § 144, 11 U. S. C. § 544. See note 11
and text.
8

See note 7.

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

§ 137, 11 U. S. C. § 537, which provides: "Prior to the first
date set for the hearing provided in section 561 of this
title,' an answer controverting the allegations of a petition
by or against a debtor may be filed by any creditor or indenture trustee or, if the debtor is not insolvent, 0 by any
stockholder of the debtor." And § 144, 11 U. S. C. § 544,
provides, "If an answer filed by any creditor, indenture
trustee, or stockholder shall controvert any of the material
allegations of the petition, the judge shall, as soon as may
be, determine, without the intervention of a jury, the issues
presented by the pleadings and enter an order approving
the petition, if satisfied that it complies with the requirements of this chapter and has been filed in good faith and
that the material allegations are sustained by the proofs,
or dismissing it if not so satisfied." " Thus, under §§ 137
9 Section 161, 11 U. S. C. § 561, reads: "The judge shall fix a time
of hearing, to be held not less than thirty days and not more than
sixty days after the approval of the petition, of which hearing at least
thirty days' notice shall be given by mail to the creditors, stockholders,
indenture trustees, the Securities and Exchange Commission and such
other persons as the judge may designate, and, if directed by the
judge, by publication in such newspaper or newspapers of general
circulation as the judge may designate."
In connection with § 161, see § 162, 11 U. S. C. § 562.
20 National's petition for reorganization alleged: "This subsidiary
corporation is unable to meet its debts as they mature . ..

."

" Under this section the District Court, if satisfied that the petition
complies with the requirements of Chapter X and has been filed in
good faith and that the material allegations are sustained by the proofs,
may be approving the petition for the 8econd time; for, as in the
present case, he may have approved it in accordance with § 141, 11
U. S. C. § 541, for the first time at the time the petition was filed. See
10 Remington, Bankruptcy (1939) § 4466. Cf. note 7.
The order of approval under § 141, which consists of "first, a conclusion of law to the effect that the petition is sufficient in respect
of its allegations, second, a finding of fact that the petition is filed in
good faith," 10 Remington § 4453, having been made ex parte, is of
iourse not coucluoive,
See note 7. See also the testimony of Mr.

DUGGAN v. SANSBERiY.
499

507

Opinion of the Court.

and 144, an answer could be filed to National's petition,
denying that National was a subsidiary of Christopher,
and asking that the petition be dismissed. The judge
would then be obliged to hold at least a summary hearing,
see In re Cheney Bros., 12 F. Supp. 609, 611,12 a material
allegation being controverted, and to decide the disputed
issue on its merits.
In as much as the interested parties thus had an opportunity in the reorganization proceeding to dispute the
allegation of National's petition that a parent-subsidiary
relationship existed between it and Christopher and by
doing so to have that issue determined on the facts, we
Harold Remington in Hearings before the Committee on the Judiciary
of the House of Representatives on H. R. 6439, subsequently reported
as H. R. 8046, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 226-227. And see Gerdes, Corporate Reorganizations: Changes Effected by Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act (1938) 52 Harv. L. Rev. 1, 7, n. 38, for a suggestion that
the time within which answers to the petition may be filed cannot be
fixed until an order approving the petition, under § 141, has been
entered. If this be the case, it would seem that a judge could not
avoid this problem of double approval by not approving the petition
until an answer had been received.
12Cf. Gerdes, Corporate Reorganizations: Changes Effected by
Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act (1938) 52 Harv. L. Rev. 1, 7: "The
statute contains no mandatory provision requiring notice of the hearing on the issues raised by an answer to be given to all creditors and
stockholders entitled to controvert the allegations of the petition. If
such notice is given, a determination of any issue tried at the hearing
becomes conclusive [citing § 145, 11 U. S. C. § 545]. In the absence of
such notice, recurrent trials of the same issues may be necessary. Once
an order approving the petition has been entered, however, it may be
possible to avoid the expense of giving notice to all creditors and stockholders and also avoid repeated trials by postponing the hearings until
after the time to file answers has expired, and then trying all of such
issues at the same time." Cf. also 10 Remington, Bankruptcy (1939)
§ 4466: "The possibility of successive orders of approval is probably
more formal and theoretical than substantial and real, since the hearing upon all answers filed by creditors, indenture trustees and stockholders would probably be consolidated."

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

827 U. S.

think it plain that Congress intended that the same
issue should not be tried collaterally in the bankruptcy
proceeding. 8
But respondent relies especially upon § 149, 11 U. S. C.
§ 549, as allowing a collateral attack in the bankruptcy
court upon the reorganization proceedings initiated by
National. This section reads: "An order, which has become final, approving a petition filed under this chapter
shall be a conclusive determination of the jurisdiction of
the court." Respondent's position is that the Missouri
District Court's approval of the petition upon its filing
was not an order which had become final and that as a
result the reorganization proceedings thereby initiated by
National were subject to question in the bankruptcy
forum.
Assuming arguendo that the ex parte order of approval,
made upon the day the petition for reorganization was
filed, was not a final order 14 and assuming also that, as respondent argues, "jurisdiction" within the meaning of this
IsIt might be argued that if the Circuit Court of Appeals was correct
in holding that for the Missouri District Court to obtain jurisdiction
over National it was necessary that National be a subsidiary of Christopher, not only on the date when National filed its petition for reorganization, but also when Christopher filed its petition and when the
involuntary petition in bankruptcy was filed against National, then
interested parties would not have an opportunity to controvert a
material allegation of the petition, namely, that such a parent-subsidiary relationship did exist on those dates, since the petition contained no such explicit statement. The answer would be, however, that
the interested parties, first, could contend that such an allegation was
required as a jurisdictional fact, see § 130 (2), 11 U. S. C. § 530 (2),
and, second, if the mere general statement of the parent-subsidiary
relationship were to be taken to satisfy the requirement, if any, that
it also existed on the prior dates, they could raise in answer to the
petition that it did not exist on those dates. It would then be for the
reorganization court to determine the correctness of either contention
or both.
14 S.Rep. 1916, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., 27, says that § 149 "is designed
to foreclose all direct or collateral attack upon jurisdiction or venue,
once the period for appeal from an order approving a petition has

DUGGAN v. SANSBERRY.
499

Opinion of the Court.

section does not have the limited meaning of "venue," the
section nevertheless does not support the position taken.
Congress in § 113, 11 1.. S. C. §513, explicitly provided
that a reorganization court, upon the filing of a petition,
could stay pending bankruptcy proceedings.15 In the light
of this provision it is scarcely possible that Congress also
intended that a collateral attack could be made in the
bankruptcy forum, the proceedings in which had been

stayed,"6 upon the proceedings in the reorganization forum.
But it is said that if this be the case, then § 149 has no
meaning at all. We do not think this conclusion follows.
Although, as we construe the Act, no collateral attack may
be brought against the reorganization proceedings, at least
in a bankruptcy forum the proceedings in which the reorganization court has stayed, this does not mean that
under other circumstances, where an order of approval is
not final, § 149 would not allow the reorganization proceeding to be attacked collaterally in some other forum, in
particular where "a prior . . . bankruptcy, mortgage f oreclosure or equity receivership proceeding [or] . . . any

act or other proceeding to enforce a lien against a debtor's
property," § 113, 11 U. S. C. § 513, is not pending. Moreover, had the Missouri District Court not enjoined the
bankruptcy proceeding, we may assume " that the bankruptcy court would have been correct in not ordering the
sale of the assets of National halted.
expired." See for a discussion of the meaning of "final," Gerdes, Corporate Reorganizations: Changes Effected by Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act (1938) 52 Harv. L. Rev. 1, 7-8.
15See note 7 and text.
1' Although the Missouri District Court enjoined only the sale, this
was in effect an injunction against the entire bankruptcy proceedings.
See In re Long Island Properties,42 F. Supp. 323, to the effect that
a judgment rendered by a state court in violation of a stay order that
had been issued by a reorganization court was without effect in the
reorganization.
"'See note 14 and text; also note 7.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

The problem involves, of course, not the ordinary power
of one court of general jurisdiction to question the
jurisdiction of another court of general jurisdiction. The
jurisdiction of both the bankruptcy forum and the reorganization forum is derived from and is limited by the
Bankruptcy Act, enacted in accordance with the congressional power "to establish . . . uniform Laws on the
subject of Bankruptcies throughout the United States
."
Constitution, Article I, § 8. It was within the
....
power of Congress to provide that a bankruptcy court
could not permit an attack, even on the usual grounds, to
be made upon proceedings initiated in a reorganization
court. 8 This power Congress exercised by permitting the
reorganization court to stay, as it did,"' the bankruptcy
proceedings.
The exercise of this power, taken in relation to the facts
at bar, was in pursuance of the congressional intention
ordinarily to allow parent and subsidiary to be reorganized in a single proceeding, 0 thereby effectuating its genis In Kalb v. Feueratein,308 U. S. 433, 438-439, what is almost the
converse was stated: "It is generally true that a judgment by a court
of competent jurisdiction bears a presumption of regularity and is not
thereafter subject to collateral attack. But Congress, because its
power over the subject of bankruptcy is plenary, may by specific
bankruptcy legislation create an exception to that principle and render
judicial acts taken with res ect to the person or property of a debtor
whom the bankruptcy law protects nullities and vulnerable collaterally."
19 See note 16.

- At the Hearings on the Chandler Act Mr. Weinstein stated: "It is
advisable that the court which is considering the proceeding of a parent
corporation should also have before it the proceeding of the subsidiary,
because there may be these interrelations and these connected interests, and the plans of reorganization offered by them, respectively,
may be carried forward concurrently." Hearings before the Committee on the Judiciary, House of Representatives, on H. R. 6439,
subsequently reported as H. R. 8046, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 136.
See H. Rep. 1409, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 41; S. Rep. 1916, 75th Cong.,

DUGGAN v. SANSBERRY.
499

Opinion of the Court.

eral policy that the entire administration of an estate
should be centralized in a single reorganization court."'
If the reorganization forum lacked the power to stay the
bankruptcy proceeding and thereby to prevent a collateral
inquiry into its own jurisdiction, this policy of Congress
would be frustrated; for instead of one court's having
"exclusive jurisdiction of the debtor and its property,
wherever located," 2 there would be two courts each with
a claim to jurisdiction and each denying the other's jurisdiction. We may not construe the Bankruptcy Act as
permitting such a state'of affairs.
In view of the disposition we make of the cause it is
unnecessary to take specific action concerning petitioners'
motion, submitted in their reply brief, relating to certain
matters affecting the state of the record.
The judgments are reversed and the causes are remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
3d Sess., 25. Cf. In re Associated Gas & Electric Co., 11 F. Supp.
359, 373-374, a § 77B case, holding that although subsidiary corpora-

tions had not filed petitions in the parent's reorganization, "It does not
follow, however, that the court has no jurisdiction to restrain sub-

sidiaries over whose action the debtor company has control, from so
dealing with their assets as to dilute the equity of the debtor company
and thus to endanger the interests of creditors on whose behalf the
jurisdiction of the court was invoked."
See Mar-Tex Realization Corp. v. Wolfson, 145 F. 2d 360,
362-363.
22 § 111, 11 U. S. C. § 511.
This section reads in full: "Where not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, the court in which
a petition is filed shall, for the purposes of this chapter, have exclusive
jurisdiction of the debtor and its property, wherever located."
Section 118, 11 U. S. C. § 518, provides, however: "The judge may
transfer a proceeding under this chapter to a court of bankruptcy in
any other district, regardless of the location of the principal assets
of the debtor or its principal place of business, if the interests of the
parties will be best served by such transfer."

