POFF v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

POFF, EXECUTRIX, v. PENNSYLVANIA
RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 484.

Argued February 1, 1946.-Decided February 25, 1946.

The Federal Employers' Liability Act provides that the liability of
the carrier under the Act shall extend, in case of the death of the
employee, "to his or her personal. representative, for the benefit
of the surviving widow or husband and children of such employee;
and, if none, then of such employee's parents; and, if none, then
of the next of kin dependent upon such employee." Held, where
a decedent left no spouse, children or parents, a cousin who was
dependent on the decedent had a right of recovery, even though
the decedent was survived also by nearer next of kin who were
not dependent and could not recover. P. 401.
150 F. 2d 902, reversed.

In a suit under the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
the district court gave judgment for the plaintiff. 57 F.
Supp. 625. The circuit court of appeals reversed. 150
F. 2d 902. This Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S.
712. Reversed, p. 402.
Morris A. Wainger argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
Ray Rood Allen argued the cause and filed a brief ior
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Congress provided in the Federal Employers' Liability
Act (35 Stat. 65, 45 U. S. C. § 51) that the carrier's liability in case of the death of an employee runs
"to his or her personal representative, for the benefit
of the surviving widow or husband and children of
such employee; and, if none, then of such employee's

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

parents; and, if none, then of the next of kin dependent upon such employee
The deceased, residing in Pennsylvania, was a railroad
engineer employed by respondent and was killed while
engaged in its service in interstate commerce. Respondent's negligence was conceded. The deceased left no
widow, children, or parents. His nearest surviving relatives were two sisters and a nephew, none of whom was
in any way financially dependent on him. But petitioner, who was his cousin, was a member of his household
and wholly dependent on him for support. The district
court rendered judgment for petitioner. 57 F. Supp. 625.
The circuit court of appeals reversed, holding that petitioner was not entitled to recover since there were nearer
relatives, though not dependent ones, who survived the
deceased. 150 F. 2d 902. The case is here on a petition
for a writ of certiorari which we granted because of the
importance of the question.
We assume, without deciding, that the circuit court of
appeals correctly concluded that members of the second
or third class, irrespective of their need, are not entitled
to recover if there survives a member of the prior class.
Cf. Notti v. Great Northern R. Co., 110 Mont. 464, 104
P. 2d 7. The liability is not "to the several classes collectively" but in the alternative to one of the three classes.
Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Wells-Dickey Trust Co., 275
U. S. 161, 163. Thus to an extent, at least, the order of
priority is determined by relationship, not by dependency.
See New Orleans & N. E. R. Co. v. Harris,247 U. S.367.
Cf. Lytle v. Southern R. Co., 152 S. C. 161, 149 S. E. 692.
But the circuit court of appeals went further and applied
that principle to determine which members of the third
class (next of kin) were entitled to recover. It said that
since parents or grandchildren, dependent on the deceased, are left without remedy if a widow or child survives, Congress could not have meant to recognize remote

POFF v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
399

Opinion of the Court.

members of the deceased's other kin, similarly situated.
It read "next of kin dependent upon such employee" to
mean "next of kin, if dependent upon such employee."
Since the two sisters and nephew were the "next of kin"
who would take to the exclusion of petitioner under Pennsylvania's law of descent and distribution1 if the deceased died intestate, petitioner was barred here.
We read the statute differently.
It is clear that "next of kin" is determined by state law.
Seaboard Air Line v. Kenney, 240 U. S. 489. State law
governs whether it is necessary to determine if one relative is closer than another, or if a claimant falls within or
without the class. But under this Act, unlike the state
statutes of descent and distribution, a member of the third
class must be not only next of kin but also dependent on
the deceased in order to recover. The emphasis on dependency suggests that Congress granted the right of
recovery to such next of kin as were dependent on the

deceased. And that interpretation seems to us to be more
in harmony with the Act than the construction adopted by
the circuit court of appeals.
We are not warranted in treating as an antecedent class
the nearer next of kin who are not dependent. That would
be to rewrite the statute. Congress has created three
classes, not four or more. Yet to hold that the existence
of nearer next of kin who are not dependent bars recovery
by more remote next of kin who are dependent is to assume that the former constitute a preferred class. Congress, however, placed all next of kin in one class. To use
dependency as the selective factor in determining which
members of a particular class may recover is no innovation
under this Act. For the Court held in Gulf, C. & S. F. R.
Co. v. McGinnis, 228 U. S. 173, that in a suit brought by
a widow as administratrix for the benefit of herself and
four children, a judgment in favor of an adult child who
1

See 20 Purdon's Pa. Stats. Ann. §§ 62, 63, 66, 67.

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

was married and resided with and was maintained by her
husband would not be sustained in absence of a showing
of pecuniary loss. Moreover, when Congress made the
widow preferred over the parents and both the widow and
parents preferred over the next of kin, it barred the deferred classes from recovering by creating a preferred
class which could recover. Yet if respondent's theory is
adopted, the nearer next of kin who are not dependent are
treated as a preferred class not for the purpose of allowing
them to recover but to defeat a recovery by all next of kin.
It may be true, as was the case in Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v.
Wells-Dickey Trust Co., supra, that the cause of action
may be lost to the preferred class and to the deferred class
as well. But that result, though possible, flows not from
the nature of the preference but from such circumstances
as the failure promptly to pursue the claim. Yet it would
be a radical departure from the statutory scheme to do
within the third class what Congress has not done between
the classes and defeat all recovery by holding that the
cause of action vested in one who could not under any circumstances sue. Under this Act deferment of a class is
based on the existence of members of a preferred class to
whom Congress has granted the right of recovery. We find
no compulsion in the policy or language of the Act to adopt
a more stringent interpretation when we come to determining what members of the third class may sue.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER dissenting, with whom MR.
JUSTICE BURTON concurs.

Congress might well have allowed recovery as a matter
of course to any near relative of a railroad employee
2 It is clear that the two sisters and the nephew, the nearest surviving
relatives, could not recover. Lindgren v. United States, 281 U. S. 38.

POFF v. PENNSYLVANIA R. CO.
399

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

whose death was due to a carrier's negligence. Congress
chose not to do so. Congress merely gave a right of action
"to certain relatives dependent upon an employ6 wrongfully injured, for the loss and damage resulting to them
financially by reason of the wrongful death." Michigan
CentralR. Co. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59, 68; and see Gulf,
C. & S. F. R. Co. v. McGinnis, 228 U. S. 173,175; Garrettv.
Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 235 U. S.308, 313. Congress might have extended the benefits of its legislation to
any dependent relative by using a colloquial description
such as "the nearest dependent surviving relative." It
chose not to do that. On the contrary, it used the phrase
"next of kin," a term of precise meaning in the law. In
sum, Congress carefully limited the relatives eligible for
compensation for an employee's death and strictly designated the basis of eligibility.'
What Congress did was thus analyzed by the court
below:
"Congress, which was willing to leave unremedied
loss suffered by parents, or grandchildren, who might
be totally dependent upon the deceased, could not
have meant to recognize remote members of the deceased's other kin, similarly situated. The plaintiff's
interpretation does not fulfill any rational purpose;
it merely introduces an exception at the precise place
where an exception is least to be desired or expected;
it mutilates the statute, as much in its purpose as in
its language. As in the case of the first two preferred classes, 'next of kin' is defined by its hereditary, not by its pecuniary, relation to the deceased;
'"That every common carrier by railroad . .. [in interstate and
foreign commerce] shall be liable in damages to any person suffering
injury while he is employed by such carrier in such commerce, or,
in case of the death of such employee, to his or her personal representative, for the benefit of the surviving widow or husband and children of such employee; and, if none, then of such employee's parents;
and, if none, then of the next of kin dependent upon such employee,
for such injury or death

C. § 51.

. . ."

35 Stat. 65, 53 Stat. 1404, 45 U. S.

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

it means the next of kin as the law has always meant
it; and dependency is only a selective factor, a condition upon recovery by any members of that class,
as it is among members of the first two classes. The

case is not therefore one in which Congress has failed
to express its obvious purpose, and in which courts
are free to supply the necessary omission; it is a case

where-whatever that purpose-it certainly did not
include what the plaintiff asserts." Poff v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 150 F. 2d 902, 905.
I do not find a persuasive answer to this analysis and
am therefore of opinion that the judgment below should
be affirmed.
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE v.
WILCOX ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 163.

Argued January 8, 1946.-Decided February 25, 1946.

1. Embezzled money does not constitute taxable income to the embezzler under § 22 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code, which defines
Icgross income" as including "gains or profits and income derived
from any source whatever." P. 408.
2. A taxable gain is conditioned upon (1) the presence of a claim
of right to the alleged gain and (2) the absence of a definite, unconditional obligation to repay or return that which would otherwise constitute a gain. P. 408.
3. Where an embezzler receives the embezzled money without any
semblance of a bona fide claim of right and remains under an unqualified duty and obligation to repay, the embezzled money does
not constitute taxable income. P. 408.
4. This conclusion is not altered by the fact that the taxpayer dissipated all of the embezzled funds, since the loss or dissipation of
embezzled money can not create taxable income to an embezzler
any more than the insolvency or bankruptcy of a borrower causes
the loans to be treated as taxable income to the borrower. P. 409.
5.The fact that a theft or loan may give rise to a deductible loss to
the owner of the money does not create taxable income to the
embezzler or the borrower. P. 409.

