OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

quently the surety should not, by claiming under subrogation or indemnity for money paid to some of the creditors for whose benefit the bond was intended, be allowed
to reduce the share of the bankrupt's assets due to other
creditors whom the bond also was intended to protect
from insolvency. For this would tend to defeat the very
purpose for which the bond was given and therefore cannot be permitted under the equitable principles governing distribution of a bankrupt's assets. Prudence Realization Corp. v. Geist, supra, at p. 96.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

ASHCRAFT ET AL. V. TENNESSEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 381.

Argued February 6, 7, 1946.-Decided February 25, 1946.

1. On retrial of petitioner, whose conviction in a criminal case in
a state court had been reversed by this Court on the ground that
it had been obtained by use of a coerced confession, Asheraft v.
Tennessee, 322 U. S. 143, the jury was permitted to hear testimony
narrating everything (except the confession) that took place during the inquisition at which the confession was obtained. This
resulted in another conviction. Held: There was no relevant distinction between the use of this evidence and the use of the confession; and the conviction is reversed as being contrary to the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 278.
2. In oral argument before this Court in the earlier proceeding, the
State's attorney admitted that the confession was the only evidence
against petitioner and this was mentioned in the opinion of this
Court, which reversed the conviction and remanded the cause to
the state supreme court for proceedings not inconsistent with the
opinion of this Court. Held: The mandate of this Court did not
forbid a new trial of petitioner. P. 279, n. 1.
3. A state supreme court's construction of its own mandate is final.
P. 279, n. 1.
Reversed.

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
274

Opinion of the Court.

. Petitioner was convicted as an accessory before the fact
of the murder of his wife. On appeal, the conviction
was affirmed by the state supreme court. On certiorari,
this Court reversed the conviction on the ground that it
had been obtained by use of a coerced confession, contrary to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 322 U. S. 143. On retrial, the jury was permitted
to hear testimony narrating everything (except the confession) which took place during the inquisition at which
the confession was obtained. The second conviction was
affirmed by the state supreme court. This Court granted
certiorari. 326 U. S. 713. Reversed and remanded for
further proceedings. P. 279.
James F. Bickers and Grover N. McCormick argued the
cause and filed a brief, and William A. McTighe entered
an appearance, for petitioner.
Nat Tipton, Assistant Attorney General of Tennessee,
argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief
was Roy H. Beeler, Attorney General.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Mrs. Zelma Ashcraft was murdered in Shelby County,
Tennessee. The petitioner Ware was convicted for the
murder. The petitioner Ashcraft, husband of the deceased, was convicted for being an accessory before the
fact. The Supreme Court of Tennessee affirmed the convictions. We reversed the judgment as to Ashcraft, vacated it as to Ware, and remanded the case to the Supreme
Court of Tennessee for further proceedings not inconsistent with our opinion. Ashcraft v. Tennessee, 322 U. S. 143.
The state supreme court then ordered the case remanded
to the Criminal Court of Shelby County with the same
directions as to further procedure. The petitioners were
again convicted and the state supreme court affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Our reversal of Ashcraft's first conviction was on the
ground that his conviction resulted from a trial so conducted as to deprive Ashcraft of due process of law in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. At that trial the
State had been permitted to introduce in evidence an alleged confession which had been obtained from Ashcraft
after thirty-six hours continuous grilling by investigating
officers, who were holding him incommunicado in the
county jail. This alleged confession was in large part
written but Ashcraft had neither written nor signed it.
Ware's conviction had also rested on a confession, the admission of which as evidence he had challenged as a denial
of due process. Without passing on the constitutional
question raised by Ware, we vacated the judgment against
him for other reasons stated in our opinion. In the joint
trial of both petitioners which resulted in the judgment
now before us, the State again introduced Ware's confession. His objection to it based on the due process clause
was overruled. Before reaching the issues raised by Ware,
we shall dispose of the questions which Ashcraft now
raises.
In our first opinion we pointed out in detail alleged
incriminatory admissions used to convict Ashcraft and the
circumstances under which he had made them. In summary those statements and circumstances were these. On
a Saturday at 7:00 P. M., nine days after his wife was
found dead, officers went to Ashcraft's home and took him
to a fifth-floor county jail room. There he was held without rest or sleep until 7:00 o'clock Monday morning, or
36 hours. During the entire time Ashcraft was subjected
to a constant barrage of questions and charges. According to the officers' testimony he, for about 28 hours, consistently denied any knowledge about, or complicity in,
the crime. The officers swore, however, that after 11:00
P. M. Sunday night Ashcraft finally confessed that he
knew who killed his wife, but at the same time denied

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
274

Opinion of the Court.

that he had done it. According to this testimony Ashcraft said that Ware had come to his home before daylight,
just as Mrs. Ashcraft was getting in an automobile to take
a journey; that he watched Ware force Mrs. Ashcraft to
drive the automobile away from home with Ware accompanying her; that Ashcraft, after making slight but ineffective protests went back to his room, later went to
work, and that he made no report to the officers but kept
his knowledge secret because he was afraid of Ware. Later
on the Sunday night that Ashcraft was being interrogated
in the jail, a court reporter was summoned and he, according to the evidence, took down complete confessions of
guilt given both by Ware and Ashcraft. The reporter
completed transcription of his notes about 7:00 o'clock
Monday morning. These transcribed notes were offered
as to both the petitioners in the first trial. Witnesses at
that trial, including Ashcraft's doctor, also swore that both
Ashcraft and Ware had been caused to strip for complete
physical examinations. The only apparent purpose of
this was to counteract any later claim by Ware or Ashcraft
that their alleged confessions were the product of physical
mistreatment.
At an early stage in the new trial, resulting in the conviction we are now reviewing, the prosecuting attorney
announced that he intended to use this jail evidence again,
"about everything except the •confession." And that was
done. The witnesses for the State in the first and the second trials were the same. Construing our mandate as
prohibiting only the admission of the written unsigned
confession, the trial judge allowed the jury to listen to testimony narrating everything else that took place during
the entire 36 hours Ashcraft was questioned with no one
present but his inquisitors and those summoned by them
to buttress their future evidence.
An inspection of the record shows beyond any peradventure of doubt that.the testimony used in the last trial

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

showing what took place during Ashcraft's examination
might well have had the same practical effect on the jury
the written unsigned confession might have had, had it
been introduced. For the circumstances leading up to it
were narrated in detail both with reference to Ware and
Ashcraft. Even the doctor who examined Ware reported
not only on Ware's physical condition but also testified
in the same breath about his examination of Ashcraft.
Respondent claims that this testimony did not harm
Ashcraft and that Ashcraft's supposed statement that he
knew who killed his wife was exculpatory. In fact, in the
context of this case, that statement was the strongest possible evidence against Ashcraft, who was charged with
having been an accessory before the fact. For ten days
following his wife's death, Ashcraft had purported to help
the officers in their efforts to solve the crime, and for the
first twenty-eight hours of his jail interrogation he had
not only stoutly maintained his own innocence whenever
it was questioned, but had also denied any knowledge
whatever as to the identity of the murderer. To admit
knowledge of the murder and of who committed it after
these protestations by him would for most people be the
equivalent of a confession of guilty participation in advance of the crime. Wilful concealment of material facts
has always been considered as evidence of guilt. And
statements denying guilt followed by a confession of
knowledge of who the guilty person was may carry the
strongest implications of a guilty knowledge. Cf. Bram
v. United States, 168 U. S. 532, 562. This is particularly
true where a husband admits that he has, against the
strongest pressures, deliberately concealed the identity of
his wife's murderer for ten days.
We see no relevant distinction between introduction of
this statement and the unsigned alleged confession, except the -possibility that the adnission of this long-concealed knowledge was perhaps a more effective confession

ASHCRAFT v. TENNESSEE.
274

Opinion of the Court.

of guilt than the written unsigned alleged confession
would have been. All the reasons given for reversal of
the judgment against Ashcraft in the first case, which we
need not repeat, apply with equal force here.
The State has asked that if Ashcraft's case is reversed
we follow the same course as to Ware that we did in the
first case; and vacate the judgment against him. For this
reason, as well as the reasons given in our former opinion,
we do not pass on the constitutional question raised by
Ware concerning his alleged confession, but vacate the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee affirming
Ware's conviction.
We need not now decide other questions that have been
1
argued except one contention mentioned below.
The judgment against petitioner Ashcraft is reversed
and that against petitioner Ware is vacated. Both cases
are remanded to the state supreme court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
joins in this opinion on the
basis of the decision in Ashcraft v. Tennessee, 322 U. S.
143.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
'The petitioner Ashcraft contends that in the oral argument before

this Court, when the first conviction was being challenged, the State's
attorney admitted that the confession was the only evidence against
Ashcraft, and since we mentioned this fact in our opinion, our mandate and the state supreme court's mandate, which adopted our mandate, in effect forbade a new trial of petitioner. We do not think our
mandate lends itself to such an interpretation. As to the state supreme
court's mandate, that court has construed it by affirming petitioners'
second convictions. The state court's construction of its own mandate
is final.

