OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

stantial intrusions on the sovereignty of the States, involving matters of great delicacy. And they raise for me
serious constitutional questions. Cf. New York v. United
States, 326 U. S. 572, 590, dissenting opinion. Since the
Act is at best ambiguous, I would choose the construction I
which avoided the constitutional issue. Only in the event
that the language of the Act was explicit would I assume
that Congress intended even in days of war to interfere
with the traditional sovereignty of the States to the extent
indicated.
UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
NO. 115.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued January 2, 1946.-Decided February 4, 1946.
1. Where, on an appeal from a denial of a motion for a new trial on
the ground of newly discovered evidence under Rule II (3) of the
Criminal Appeals Rules, it appears that the only objection is to the
trial court's findings on conflicting evidence and that there was
evidence to support its findings, the appeal does not present a reviewable issue of law; and the circuit court of appeals should, on

its own motion, dismiss the appeal as frivolous under Rule IV,
which gives the circuit courts of appeals power to supervise and
control all proceedings on appeal. P. 113.
2. It is important for the orderly administration of criminal justice
that findings on conflicting evidence by trial courts on motions for
new trial based on newly discovered evidence remain undisturbed,
except in most extraordinary circumstances. P. 111.
3. It is not the province of this Court or the circuit courts of appeals
to review orders granting or denying motions for a new trial when
such review is sought on the ground that the trial court made
erroneous findings of fact and it does not clearly appear that the
findings are not supported by any evidence. P. 111.
3A permissible construction is that the phrase "the United
States . . . or any other government" means the United States or

other comparable national sovereignties, i. e., foreign governments.
*Together with No. 116, United States v. Sommers et al., on
certiorari to the same court. Argued and decided on the same dates.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
106

Counsel for Parties.

4. While a defendant should be afforded the full benefit of a motion
for a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence under
Rule II (3) of the Criminal Appeals Rules, courts should be on
the alert to see that the privilege is not abused; and one of the
most effective methods of preventing abuse is to refrain from reviewing findings of fact which have evidence to support them.
P. 113.
149 F. 2d 31, reversed.

Respondents in both cases were convicted of violations of penal provisions of the Revenue Acts and for
conspiracy. The circuit court of appeals reversed. 123
F. 2d 111, 142. After granting certiorari, 315 U. S.
790, this Court reversed and remanded the case to the
circuit court of appeals. 319 U. S. 503. That court remanded the case to the district court to permit a motion
for a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence.
That motion was made and denied. The circuit court of
appeals affirmed. 142 F. 2d 588. Respondents petitioned this Court for certiorari, but the petition was dismissed on motion of their counsel. 323 U. S. 806. After
obtaining a second remand from the circuit court of appeals on the ground of still further newly discovered
evidence, respondents filed in the district court an
amended motion for a new trial. That motion was denied.
The circuit court of appeals reversed. 149 F. 2d 31. This
Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 702. Reversed and
remanded to the district court to enforce the judgment.
P. 113.
Arnold Raum argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath,
Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., Joseph
S. Platt and Melva M. Graney.
Homer Cummings argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were William J. Dempsey and
Harold R. Schradzke.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
On October 12, 1940, after a federal district court trial
lasting more than six weeks, a jury found respondent
Johnson guilty of wilfully attempting to defeat and evade
a large part of his income taxes for the calendar years
1936-1939 and of conspiring to do so; the other respondents were convicted and sentenced for conspiring with and
aiding and abetting him.' From the time of these convictions until now, enforcement of the sentences was delayed by persistent efforts to obtain a new trial. Though
there has been no second trial the case is here for the third
time.
September 21, 1941, was the date when the circuit
court of appeals first reversed the conviction, one judge
dissenting. 123 F. 2d 111. June 7, 1943, we reversed
and remanded the case to the circuit court of appeals,
319 U. S. 503. Respondents then asked that court to
remand the case to the trial court to permit a motion for
a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence.'
The circuit court acting pursuant to Rule II (3) of the
Criminal Appeals Rules' remanded the case and on Oc-

IThe respondent Brown was found guilty only on the conspiracy
count and counts 3 and 4, the substantive counts for 1938-1939.
2 Previously respondents had applied to Mr. Justice Frankfurter
for a stay of mandate pending petition for rehearing. Mr. Justice
Frankfurter's denial of the motion specifically stated that it was to be
"without prejudice, however, to the consideration and disposition by
the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit of
any motion filed under Rule 2 (3) of the Criminal Appeals Rules . .
"1. Motions.

"(3) Except in capital cases a motion for a new trial solely upon
the ground of newly-discovered evidence may be made within sixty
(60) days after final judgment, without regard to the expiration of
the term at which judgment was rendered, unless an appeal has been
taken and in that event the trial court may entertain the motion only
on remand of the case by the appellate court for that purpose, and
such remand may be made at any time before final judgment. . ....

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
106

Opinion of the Court.

tober 29, 1943, respondents, with leave of the trial court,
filed a motion for a new trial. The respondents alleged
that the newly discovered evidence proved that Goldstein,
a government witness at the trial, was unworthy of belief
and had committed perjury in testifying that certain
properties were purchased by him on behalf of Johnson
and with money supplied by Johnson. To support their
charges against Goldstein respondents offered numerous
affidavits. The Government filed an answer to the motion and a number of counter-affidavits. And among the
papers before the court were affidavits by Goldstein reaffirming his testimony at the trial. The trial judge, in a
carefully prepared opinion covering fifty-six pages of the
record, gave thoughtful consideration to each affidavit,
reached the conclusion that none of them showed that
Goldstein had perjured himself, and found both from the
new affidavits and his own knowledge of the original sixweeks trial, that Goldstein's testimony was true. The
motion for a new trial was consequently denied.
The circuit court of appeals affirmed. 142 F. 2d 588.
It unanimously held that it could not substitute its judgment on the facts for that of the trial judge; that it did not
have power to try these facts de novo; that it could review
the record for errors of law, to determine, among other
things, whether the trial judge had abused his discretion;
that a review of the new evidence in the record did not
inevitably lead to the conclusion that Goldstein had testified falsely; that the trial judge had not reached his conclusion "arbitrarily, capriciously, or in the misapplication
of any rule of law" and hence had not abused his discretion. The respondents thereupon filed a second petition
for certiorari in this Court. While this petition was
pending, respondents presented papers informing us that
they had discovered still more new evidence tending to
discredit Goldstein's original testimony. We deferred consideration of their case, which we later dismissed, 323 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

806, and they, after obtaining a second remand from the
circuit court of appeals, filed an amended motion for new
trial in the district court. The trial court again wrote an
opinion analyzing each new affidavit in detail. These
additional affidavits contained statements which, had they
been offered as testimony at the original trial, would have
been admissible and relevant to discredit Goldstein's and
buttress Johnson's testimony. At least some of the facts
set out in the affidavits had not been discovered until
shortly before the amended motion was made. But the
trial court concluded that the new affidavits failed to prove
that Goldstein had committed perjury, and that consequently the basic ground for the motion-that there was
new evidence showing that Goldstein had perjured himself-was without foundation.' That court found again
that the new and old evidence taken together affirmatively showed that Goldstein had been a truthful witness.
This time, however, the circuit court of appeals reversed
with one judge dissenting. 149 F. 2d 31. The reversal
rested basically on the court's belief that the trial judge
had erroneously found that Goldstein did not commit perjury. The majority of the court reviewed parts of the
affidavits and concluded from them that the frial judge's
finding that Goldstein did not commit perjury was illogical and unreasonable. The majority substituted its
own finding that Goldstein's original testimony was "unerringly false" and held that the trial judge's contrary
An alternative ground for the court's denial 6f the motion need
not be considered here. For as will be seen we think that the trial
court's findings that the so-called new evidence failed to show Goldstein's perjury should not have been upset. The alternative ground
was that all the so-called newly discovered evidence was either not
newly discovered, or merely cumulative or impeaching, and in any
event would probably not produce a different result. In this aspect
of the case, the trial court, as did the circuit court of appeals in its
first opinion, relied on the frequently quoted and followed rule announced in Berry v. Georgia, 10 Ga. 511.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
106

Opinion of the Court.

conclusion amounted to an abuse of discretion. Since we
think it important for the orderly administration of criminal justice that findings on conflicting evidence by trial
courts on motions for new trial based on newly discovered
evidence remain undisturbed except for most extraordinary circumstances, we granted certiorari.
In our opinion the circuit court of appeals erred. The
appeal to that court was so devoid of merit that it should
have been dismissed. The crucial question before the
trial court was one of fact: Did the new evidence show
that Goldstein's original testimony was false? ' The trial
judge, after carefully studying all the evidence, found that
there was nothing to show perjury on the part of Goldstein,
that Goldstein had in fact told the truth, and concluded
that a new trial was not warranted. The trial court thus
answered the above question in the negative. Two judges
of the circuit court of appeals thought that the evidence
compelled an affirmative answer. But it is not the province of this Court or the circuit court of appeals to review
orders granting or denying motions for a new trial when
such review is sought on the alleged ground that the
trial court made erroneous findings of fact. Holmgren v.
United States, 217 U. S. 509; Holt v. United States, 218

U. S. 245; Fairmount Glass Works v. Cub Fork Coal Co.,
287 U. S. 474, 481. While the appellate court might intervene when the findings of fact are wholly unsupported
by evidence, cf. United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co.,
5 In addition to questions involving the merely impeaching or cumulative effect of the evidence, which we have already indicated need not
be considered here, see note 2, supra, we also need not consider what
criteria should have guided the court in passing on the motion, had
respondents actually shown that Goldstein recanted his testimony
or that he committed perjury. Compare Larrison v. United States,
24 F. 2d 82, with Berry v. Georgia, supra, note 2. For as later appears we consider the district court's finding, that Goldstein's testimony was not shown to have been false, not reviewable. That was
sufficient to warrant a denial of the motion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

310 U. S. 150, 247; Glasser v. United States, 315 U. S. 60,
87, it should never do so where it does not clearly appear
that the findings are not supported by any evidence.
The trial judge's findings were supported by evidence.
He had conducted the original trial and had watched the
case against Johnson and the other respondents unfold
from day to day. Consequently the trial judge was exceptionally qualified to pass on the affidavits. The record
of both the original trial and the proceedings on the motions for a new trial shows clearly that the trial judge gave
the numerous elements of the controversy careful and
honest consideration. We think that even a casual perusal of this record should have revealed to the circuit
court of appeals that here nothing more was involved
than an effort to upset a trial court's findings of fact.
Determination of guilt or innocence as a result of a fair
trial, and prompt enforcement of sentences in the event
of conviction, are objectives of criminal law. In the interest of promptness, Rule II (2) of the Criminal Appeals
Rules requires that motions for new-trial generally must
be made within three days after verdict or finding of guilt,
and Rule III requires appeals to be taken within five days.
But motions for new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence have been more liberally treated. They
can, under Rule II (3), be made at any time within sixty
days after judgment, and in the event of an appeal, at any
time before final disposition by the appellate court. This
extraordinary length of time within which this type of
motion can be made is designed to afford relief where,
despite the fair conduct of the trial, it later clearly appears to the trial judge that, because of facts unknown at
the time of trial, substantial justice was not done. It is
obvious, however, that this privilege might lend itself for
use as a method of delaying enforcement of just sentences.
Especially is this true where delay is extended by appeals
lacking in merit. This case well illustrates this possibil-

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
106

Opinion of the Court.

ity. While a defendant should be afforded the full benefit of this type of rectifying motion, courts should be on
the alert to see that the privilege of its use is not abused.
One of the most effective methods of preventing this abuse
is for appellate courts to refrain from reviewing findings
of fact which have evidence to support them. The circuit court of appeals was right in the first instance, when
it declared that it did not sit to try de novo motions for
a new trial. It was wrong in the second instance when it
did review the facts de novo and order the judgment set
aside.
The appeal to the circuit court of appeals was instituted by notice of appeal under Rule III of the Criminal
Appeals Rules. Rule IV gives the circuit court of appeals power to supervise and control all proceedings on the
appeal and to expedite such proceedings by, among other
things, entertaining motions to dismiss. Ray v. United
States, 301 U. S. 158, 164; Mortensen v. United States,
322 U. S. 369. Under that rule the circuit court of appeals here, after studying the issues raised, and upon determining that the only objection was to the trial court's
findings on conflicting evidence, should have decided that
this does not present a reviewable issue of law and on its
own motion have dismissed the appeal as frivolous.'
The judgment of the circuit court of appeals is reversed,
and the cause is remanded to the district court to enforce
the judgments against the petitioners.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took
no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
0

Alberts v. United States, 21 F. 2d 968; Corrigan v. Buckley, 271
U. S. 323, 329; Avent v. United States, 266 U. S. 127, 131; Sugarman
v. United States, 249 U. S. 182, 184; Zucht v. King, 260 U. S. 174,
176; Campbell v. Olney, 262 U. S. 352; Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v.
Watson, 287 U. S. 86, 90, 92; Salinger v. United States, 272 U. S. 542,
544; Kryder v. Indiana, 305 U. S. 570; Cady v. Georgia,323 U. S. 676.

