558

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

the doctrine that whether a taking is for a public purpose
is not a question beyond judicial competence.
S. R. A., INC. v. MINNESOTA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

Nos. 254 and 255. Argued January 3, 1946.-Decided March 25, 1946.
Real estate, which had been acquired by the United States for public
purposes with the consent of a State and over which the United
States had exercised exclusive legislative jurisdiction pursuant to
Art. I, § 8, cl. 17 of the Constitution, was sold to a private party
under a contract of sale giving the purchaser possession but retaining legal title in the United States until payment of the balance
of the purchase price in installments. The contract contained no
express provision retaining sovereignty in the United States; there
was no express retrocession by Congress to the State; and the
original act of cession contained no requirement for return of sovereignty to the State when the property was no longer used for federal
purposes. While much of the purchase price was still not due and
unpaid, the State levied taxes on the property "subject to fee
title remaining in the United States." Under the state law, as construed by the Supreme Court of the State, the equitable interest
alone could be sold for taxes, leaving the fee of the United States
in its position of priority over any interests which might be transferred by the tax sale. Held:
1. The contract transferred the equity in the land to the purchaser, leaving in the United States only a legal title as securitythe equivalent of a mortgage. Pp. 565, 569.
2. When the purchaser took possession of the property, it became
subject to the territorial jurisdiction of the State. P. 565.
3. The construction by the state supreme court of the law of the
State as to the effect of a tax sale of the purchaser's interest on the
interest of the United States is binding on this Court. P. 565.
4. The property is not immune from taxation by the State. Van
Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151, distinguished; New Brunswick v. United States, 276 U. S. 547, followed. Pp. 566-569.
5. The tax is not invalidated by the inclusion of the interest of
the United States in the valuation of the land, since its interest is
for security purposes only and is not beneficial in nature. P. 570.
219 Minn. 493, 517; 18 N. W. 2d 442, 455, affirmed.

S. R. A., INC. v. MINNESOTA.
558

559

Opinion of the Court.

Minnesota levied taxes on certain real estate under
contract of sale from the United States to a private party,
the legal title being in the United States; but the assessment was expressly made "subject to fee title remaining
in the United States." A state trial court held that the
property was exempt from state taxation. The Supreme
Court of Minnesota reversed the judgment. In re
S. R. A., Inc., 213 Minn. 487, 7 N. W. 2d 484. On retrial,
the lower court held the property liable for the tax and declared a lien "upon such parcel of land as against the estate,
right, title, interest, claim, or lien, of whatever nature, in
law or equity, of every person, company, or corporation,
subject however, to the prior rights, liens and interests of
the United States of America." This judgment was affirmed on appeal. In re S. R. A., Inc., 219 Minn. 493,
517, 18 N. W. 2d 442, 455. This Court granted certiorari.
326 U. S. 703. Affirmed, p. 570.
Roland J. Faricyargued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Andrew R. Bratter argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were J. A. A. Burnquist, Attorney
General of Minnesota, Geo. B. Sjoselius, Deputy Attorney
General, and James F. Lynch.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
A question as to the power of the State of Minnesota
to tax realty within the boundaries of that State, when
the legal title remains in the United States, is presented
by this writ of certiorari.' The State ceded jurisdiction
over the realty in accordance with the exclusive legislation
' No. 255, S. R. A., Inc. v. Minnesota, is in all respects like No. 254,
except that the state tax was laid for the year 1941. This opinion in
No. 254 governs the result and the same judgment of affirmance is
directed. See 219 Minn. 517, 18 N. W. 2d 455; certiorari granted, 326
U. S. 703.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

clause of the United States Constitution, Article I, § 8,
Clause 17.
The realty in question was conveyed to the United
States in 1867 as a site for a building to house a post office,
a customs office and offices for various departments and
agencies of the United States. The building was eventually vacated and the property sold in 1939 by the Director
of Procurement of the Department of the Treasury under
the authority of an act for the disposal of surplus federal
real estate. 49 Stat. 885.
It was purchased on public sale and improved by petitioner who was in full possession with right of user under
an executory contract of sale between it and the United
States at the time of the levy of the tax. That contract
provided for a cash payment and annual instalments, possession by petitioner so long as it met the terms of the
contract, and for repossession by the United States, with
retention of prior instalments of the purchase price, upon
the purchaser's failure to comply with any term or condition of the contract. Upon repossession, the United
States was authorized to resell the realty and recover any
resulting deficiency from the petitioner. All obligations
due under the contract had been met. The major portion
of the contract price had not fallen due and was unpaid.
The contract permitted leases to others in subordination
to the rights of the United States. The contract required
the United States to execute and deliver a quit claim deed
for the realty to the petitioner upon its completion of the
requirements of the contract.
With the ownership of the property in the situation just
described, taxes for general and special purposes were
levied on the property for 1940 under the usual Minnesota
procedure. The tax was stated in the assessment to be
on the realty "subject to fee title remaining in the United
States of America." Petitioner duly filed its objections
in the proper state district court, pursuant to statute. 1

S. R. A., INC. v. MINNESOTA.
558

Opinion of the Court.

Minn. Stat. (1941) Ch. 278. So far as concerns this review, the objection to the tax was based on a claimed
exemption of the realty from state taxation because title
to all of the premises was in the United States. The exemption was sustained by the trial court. The Supreme
Court of Minnesota reversed that judgment and denied
exemption. In re S. R. A., Inc., 213 Minn. 487, 7 N. W.
2d 484. On retrial, the lower court held the realty liable
for the tax and declared a lien "upon such parcel of land
as against the estate, right, title, interest, claim, or lien,
of whatever nature, in law or equity, of every person, company, or corporation, subject however, to the prior rights,
liens and interests of the United States of America . . ."
This second judgment was affirmed on appeal. In re
S. R. A., Inc., 219 Minn. 493, 18 N. W. 2d 442.
Certiorari was sought under § 237 (b) of the Judicial
Code. It was granted because of the importance and uncertainty of the question of the right of a State to tax
realty sold by the United States in possession of a buyer
from the Government under a contract of sale with uncompleted conditions for execution and delivery of the
muniments of title. 326 U. S. 703.2
1 The supremacy of the Federal Government in our Union
forbids the acknowledgment of the power of any State to
tax property of the United States against its will. Under
an implied constitutional immunity, its property and operations must be exempt from state control in tax, as in
other matters. M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316,
425, et seq.; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151, 177;
2 Varying results have been reached by other courts in similar situations. Lincoln County v. Pacific Spruce Corp., 26 F. 2d 435; Ken
Realty Co. v. Johnson, 138 F. 2d 809; Mint Realty Co. v. Philadelphia,
218 Pa. 104, 66 A. 1130; Copp v. State, 69 W. Va. 439, 71 S. E. 580;
ABR Corp. v. Newark, 133 N. J. L. 34, 42 A. 2d 296. See also Ban-

croft Investment Corp. v. Jacksonville, 157 Fla. 546, 27 So. 2d 162.

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

United States v. Allegheny County, 322 U. S. 174, 176-77.
This postulate, as a matter of federal law, forces final decision of the validity of claimed exemptions under this
immunity upon this Court. United States v. Allegheny
County, supra, 183, and cases cited. The impact of state
taxation on federal operations may be so close and threatening as to compel judicial intervention to declare the
state tax invalid, as in the M'Culloch case, or so remote
and incidental as to justify a federal court in refusing
to relieve a taxpayer from a state tax. Alabama v. King
& Boozer, 314 U. S.1. The line of taxability is somewhat
irregular and has varied through the years.'
The right of a State to tax realty directly depends primarily upon its territorial jurisdiction over the area. The
realty of petitioner had been conveyed to and used by the
United States for the essential governmental activities
which authorized the exercise of its exclusive legislative
jurisdiction.' Exclusive legislative power is in essence
complete sovereignty.' That is, not only is the federal
property immune from taxation because of the supremacy
of the Federal Government but state laws, not adopted
directly or impliedly by the United States, are ineffective
8Compare Mayo v. United States, 319 U. S. 441, with Alabama v.
King & Boozer, supra,and United States v. Allegheny County, supra,
p. 176, notes 1 and 2, and cases cited. See Wilson v. Cook, 327 U. S.
474.
4
Art. I, § 8, Cl. 17:
"The Congress shall have Power ...
"To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over such
District (not exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession of
particular States, and the Acceptance of Congress, become the Seat
of the Government of the United States, and to exercise like Authority
over all Places purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the State
in which the Same shall be, for the Erection of Forts, Magazines,
Arsenals, dock-Yards, and other needful Buildings; . . ."
5Fort Leavenworth R. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525, 532-33; United
States v. Unzeuta, 281 U. S.138; Surplus Trading Co. v. Cook, 281
U. S. 647, 652-56; Bowen v. Johnston, 306 U. S. 19.

S. R. A., INC. v. MINNESOTA.
558

563

Opinion of the Court.

to tax or regulate other property or persons upon that
enclave.'
It would seem that the United States obtained
this property in compliance with cession by Minnesota of

exclusive sovereignty.

Act of February 9, 1867, Minn.

Laws 1867 Jan., Ch. LxxIx. The acceptance by the United
States at that time of the power ceded is presumed." This
Court apparently has never directly passed upon the effect
on federal sovereignty of the property's transfer by the

United States to private hands.
In this instance there were no specific words in the contract with petitioner which were intended to retain
sovereignty in the United States. There was no express

retrocession by Congress to Minnesota, such as sometimes
occurs.'

There was no requirement in the act.of cession

for return of sovereignty to the State when the ceded
territory was no longer used for federal purposes.'
In
the absence of some such provisions, a transfer of property held by the United States under state cessions pursuant to Article I, § 8, Clause 17, of the Constitution
would leave numerous isolated islands of federal jurisdiction, unless the unrestricted transfer of the property
6 Stewart & Co. v. Sadrakula, 309 U. S. 94; Surplus Trading Co. v.
Cook, supra, note 5.
7 FortLeavenworth R. Co. v. Lowe, supra, p. 528; Benson v. United
States, 146 U. S. 325, 330; Mason Co. v. Tax Comm'n, 302 U. S. 186,
207.
At the time of the purchase, 5 Stat. 468, later incorporated in R. S.
§ 355, was in force. As it required consent of the State of the situs
before expenditures of public money by the United States on locations
purchased for needful buildings, it is to be presumed that all requirements were satisfied. R. S. § 355 has been consistently construed to
require full sovereignty in the United States. 8 Op. A. G. 102; 10 Op.
A. G. 34; 20 Op. A. G. 611; 31 Op. A. G. 265; 38 Op. A. G. 341; 39,
Op. A. G. 285. R. S. § 355 has been superseded. 40 U. S. C. § 255;
Adams v. United States, 319 U. S. 312.
8 30 Stat. 668; 9 Stat. 35.
9
Compare Palmer v. Barrett, 162 U. S. 399; James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134, 144.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

to private hands is thought without more to revest sovereignty in the States. As the purpose of Clause 17 was to
give control over the sites of governmental operations to
the United States, when such control was deemed essential
for federal activities, it would seem that the sovereignty
of the United States would end with the reason for its
existence and the disposition of the property. We shall
treat this case as though the Government's unrestricted
transfer of property to nonfederal hands is a relinquishment of the exclusive legislative power." Recognition has
been given to this result as a rule of necessity." If such
a step is necessary, Minnesota showed its acceptance of a
supposed retrocession by its levy of a tax on the property.
Under these assumptions the existence of territorial jurisdiction in Minnesota so as to permit state taxation depends upon whether there was a transfer of the property
by the contract of sale.
In determining the meaning and effect of contracts to
which the United States is a party, the governing rules of
law must be finally declared by this Court. United States
v. Allegheny County, supra, 183. Turning to the contract,
we find in it no characteristics which differentiate it from
the normal executory contract for the sale of land with
partial payments. Normally, contracts, between the
United States and others are construed as contracts between private parties. Lynch v. United States, 292 U. S.
10 Compare Palmer v. Barrett, supra,with Arlington Hotel v. Fant,

278 U. S. 439.
"Fort Leavenworth R. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525, 542: "It is
necessarily temporary, to be exercised only so long as the places continue to be used for the public purposes for which the property was
acquired or reserved from sale. When they cease to be thus used, the
jurisdiction reverts to the State."
The reference to federal control of "reserved" land probably relates to the supremacy of the United States for the management of
governmental affairs in the absence of exclusive legislative power.
See page 539.

S. R. A., INC. v. MINNESOTA.
558

Opinion of the Court.

571, 579. This Court has been of the opinion that con-

tracts for the sale of land transfer to the purchaser the
equity in the land. We think this contract did so. That
equity is realty. It was owned by the vendee. The United
States retains only a legal title as security. In substance
it is in the position of a mortgagee.' Minnesota has the
same rule. In re S. R. A., Inc., 219 Minn. 493, 507; 213
Minn. 487, 495, 499. Therefore when petitioner entered into possession of this real estate under its contract
of purchase, the taxed property by the transfer became
subject to the territorial jurisdiction of Minnesota.
Territorial jurisdiction in Minnesota does not dispose
of this tax problem. The nub of this case, that is the immunity from state taxation of property to which the
United States holds legal title, remains. Minnesota took
care to leave unassessed whatever interest the United
States holds. The levy and judgment was "subject to fee
title remaining in the United States of America." 219
Minn. at 496. Although Minnesota real estate taxes are
assessed on the parcel of land as a "unitary item" including "all rights and privileges," the State does not claim
that a tax sale will divest the fee title of the United States.
213 Minn. at 493, 499. Apparently the State is of the
view that the equitable interest alone may be sold under
its laws, leaving the fee of the United States in its position of priority over any interests which may be transferred by the tax sale. 219 Minn. at 513. Such a construction of the state law is binding upon this Court. It
'2Lenman v. Jones, 222 U. S. 51; Gunton v. Carroll, 101 U. S. 426,
430-31; Bissell v. Heyward, 96 U. S. 580; Secombe v. Steele, 20 How.
94, 103-104. Compare 8 Thompson, Real Property, § 4579; 2 Sugden,
Vendors (14th Ed.), 375. See Lowery v. Peterson,75 Ala. 109. Compare Restatement, Conflict of Laws, § 209.
13 We intimate no view as to the legislative status of this property,
if it is repossessed by the United States. See the cases cited in note
10, supra.

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

does not impinge upon federal rights. So long as that
situation exists, the determination of the State cannot be
challenged here. The possibility of repossession by the
United States is not enough to block a tax sale in which
the paramount rights of the United States are protected.
Baltimore Shipbuilding Co. v. Baltimore, 195 U. S. 375,
381-82; New Brunswick v. United States, 276 U. S.547,
556; United States v. Alabama, 313 U. S.274, 282.1
Petitioner's argument goes beyond the question of the

enforcement of the assessed tax. It is bottomed on the
implied constitutional immunity from state taxation of
property for which the United States holds title subject
to unfulfilled conditions. In Van Brocklin v. Tennessee,
117 U. S.151, that State sought to tax realty of the United
States which was not held for the purposes or under the
authority of the Cession Clause. Certain lots had been
purchased by and conveyed to the United States pursuant
to a federal tax sale. 12 Stat. 423, § 7. These lots were
later transferred by deed or certificate of release to private
owners. 17 Stat. 330; 18 Stat. 313. Tennessee assessed
its own taxes upon the entire property for the years during
which title to the lots was in the United States and attempted to collect them from the private owners after the
transfer. Tennessee's claim was founded on the absence
of state cession. This Court refused to permit the State's
action, saying at page 179:
"While the United States owned the land struck off
to them for the amount of the taxes because no one
would pay more for it, and until it was sold by the
United States for a greater price, or was redeemed by
14 As the case was tried below on the theory of direct or implied immunity because the fee was in the United States, we neither consider
nor decide the effect of a tax sale of petitioner's rights on its contract
with the United States. See Wilson v. Cook, 327 U. S. 474, 483.
Compare 41 U. S. C. § 15 with Freedman'sSaving Co. v. Shepherd, 127
U. S. 494.

S. R. A., INC. v. MINNESOTA.
558

567

Opinion of the Court.

the former owner, the United States held the entire
title as security for the payment of the taxes; and
it could not be known how much, if anything, beyond
the amount of the taxes the land was worth. To
allow land, lawfully held by the United States as
security for the payment of taxes assessed by and due
to them, to be assessed and sold for State taxes would
tend to create a conflict between the officers of the two
governments, to deprive the United States of a title
lawfully acquired under express acts of Congress, and
to defeat the exercise of the constitutional power to
lay and collect taxes, to pay the debts and provide
for the common defence and general welfare of the
United States."
The posture of the land sought to be taxed in the Van
Brocklin case differentiates it from that presently under
consideration. The United States there held complete
title upon the assessment dates as a purchaser at a tax
sale. The entire bundle of rights in the property was
assessed by Tennessee. As a matter of grace, the United
States had granted a right to the taxpayer to redeem. It
was like an option to purchase. The statute might have
authorized the sale of the land to any purchaser without
consideration for the former owner. The United States,
here, as we have demonstrated above, had transferred at
the time of the assessment equitable ownership to the
purchaser and has only a legal title as security for the
unpaid purchase price. See United States v. Allegheny
County, 322 U. S.174, 188.
Petitioner presses various land grant cases upon us as
announcing the controlling rule.' The principle which
petitioner extracts from these cases is that alienation of
United States property does not pass an interest to the
vendee taxable by a State until all conditions precedent for
'1 Railway Co. v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603; Railway Co. v. McShane,
22 Wall. 444; Northern Pacific R. Co. v. Trail County, 115 U. S. 600;
Irwin v. Wright, 258 U. S. 219.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

the delivery of the deed have been complied with. In the
present case, petitioner asserts, the full amount of the
purchase price must be paid before the State can tax. Such
a rule can be extracted by the literal reading of certain
phrases in the land grant cases. " The reason for the rule
was said, in the earlier cases, to be that a state tax sale
would defeat the government lien for surveying or other
costs because the state sale would pass a title free from lien
of the United States. 7 As heretofore shown, ante, p. 565,
this ground for refusing power to Minnesota to tax is not
present in this case, since Minnesota holds that the lien
of the United States will remain paramount.
Irwin v. Wright involved the taxability by a State of
property occupied by an entryman under the Reclamation
and Homestead Acts who had not received his required
final certificate of land clearance, pages 227, 228, 232. The
reason for the rule against state taxation until the equitable title passes from the United States to the entryman was
there placed upon the policy of the Government to require
those who sought government land to perform the required
conditions of residence or improvement before beneficial
title, subject to state taxation, passes from the United
States to the locator. This transfer was said not to take
16 Irwin v. Wright, supra,228,229,232, 233; Northern Pacific R. Co.
v. Traill County, supra, at 609; Railway Co. v. McShane, supra, at
462.
1716 Wall. at 608; 22 Wall. at 462; 115 U. S. at 610. See also
Colorado Co. v. Commissioners, 95 U. S. 259. In the McShane case,
itself, which clearly set out the above reason for non-taxability, it
was recognized that the federal right of pre-emption for the benefit of
settlers would not be affected by a state tax sale. This Court therefore reversed its former judgment in the Prescott case that land held
by the railroads subject to this pre-emption could not be taxed by a
State. 22 Wall. at 461. Congress promptly terminated the land tax
exemption after the Traill County decision by subjecting railroad land
grants to state taxation before payment of conveyancing costs. 43

U. S. C. § 882.

S. R. A., INC. v. MINNESOTA.
558

Opinion of the Court.

place until the certificate was issued. Page 232. The
prohibition of state taxation until the certificate was issued
was one of the means by which the Government furthered
its public policy of land settlement. After compliance
with the condition and before patent, the State could tax.1
We think the public policy of national development and
federal tax collection justify the limitation on state taxing
power announced by the foregoing decisions. We do not,
however, conclude that their rationale leads to an exemption from state taxation of all lands in which the United
States holds legal title as security for the purchase price.
To say that the payment of the purchase price is a necessary condition precedent to the loss of federal immunity is
to make the rule too mechanical. It should be sufficiently
flexible to subject real private rights, disentangled from
federal policies, to state taxation. This has been the holdWhere beneficial interest has
ing in mining Claims.'
passed to a vendee, the retention of legal title does not give
a significant difference from the situation of a deed with
a lien retained or a mortgage back to secure the purchase
money.
That was the interpretation given the facts in New
Brunswick v. United States, 276 U. S. 5472 The City of
New Brunswick, under authority of New Jersey, sought
to tax lots in the possession of purchasers from the Housing
Corporation, a corporation wholly owned by the United
States and therefore treated as the United States. These
purchasers had paid enough of the purchase price-ten
per cent-to entitle them to deeds under their contracts
but had not paid the entire purchase price. The deeds had
not been delivered nor the mortgages executed for the
balance as required by the purchase agreement. This
Is Bothwell v. Bingham County, 237 U. S. 642, 647.
19
Elder v. Wood, 208 U. S. 226.
20
But see ABR Corp. v. Newark, 133 N. J. L. 34.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
STONwE, C. J., concurring.

327 U. S.

Court said: "In equity the situation was then the same as
if the Corporation had conveyed title to the purchasers,
as owners, and they had mortgaged the lots to the Corporation to secure the unpaid purchase money." Page 555.
The Court sustained the tax subject to the paramount lien
of the United States. We think the petitioner's Minnesota
property is in a similar position. Ownership of the beneficial interest has passed to the petitioner with legal title
retained by the United States for security purposes. This
should not put this private property in an exempt class.
There is a suggestion that to hold United States property subject to state taxation pending the completion of
payment will injuriously affect its salability and therefore
interfere with the Government's handling of its affairs.
Our recent cases have disposed of this economic argument
in a way which is contrary to petitioner's contention. Alabama v. King & Boozer, 314 U. S. 1, and cases cited.
The only other contention of petitioner which we need
mention is that the State has included the interest of the
United States in the valuation of the land, and has therefore subjected that interest to taxation. But no deduction
need be made for the interest of the Government since that
interest is for security purposes only and is not beneficial
in nature. The whole equitable ownership is in the petitioner and the value of that ownership may be ascertained
on the basis of the full value of the land. New Brunswick
v. United States, supra, at 555-56.
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of these cases.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE,
FRANKFURTER

with whom MR.

JUSTICE

joins, concurring.

I concur in the result, but I do not join in so much of
the opinion of the Court as undertakes to discuss the ter-

S. R. A., INC. v. MINNESOTA.
558

FRANKFURTER, J., concurring.

ritorial jurisdiction of the State of Minnesota over the
land in question. The territorial jurisdiction of the state
to lay the tax, said to be a novel question, was not raised
in the state courts, by the petition for certiorari, or in
argument or briefs in this Court. Under our decisions we
are therefore not free to decide it. McGoldrick v. Compagnie Generale, 309 U. S. 430, 434-5; Wilson v. Cook,
327 U. S. 474, 483-484, and cases cited; see also Rule 38,
par. 2 of the Rules of this Court; Flournoy v. Wiener, 321
U. S. 253, 259. Since the opinion of the Court expresses
no disapproval of these authorities, I take it that everything said on the question of Minnesota's territorial jurisdiction to tax is dictum. Our opinion should be confined
to the single question which the petitioner presents for our
decision, whether the retention by the United States of the
legal title to the taxed land precludes its taxation to petitioner, which, under its contract with the Government,
has acquired possession and right to possession. As I have
no doubt on this question, I agree the judgments should
be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, concurring.

The Government sold a piece of surplus property located
in St. Paul, Minnesota. It put the vendee in possession
but retained the legal title, with the right of re-entry, as
security for portions of the purchase price remaining due
under the contract of sale. The decisive question before
us is whether the interest thus retained by the United
States bars Minnesota, under a general non-discriminatory
law, from taxing the vendee's interest in the property.
The Constitution itself furnishes no answer in terms. But
the considerations governing the appropriate adjustment
between national and state powers of taxation, where the
incidence of taxation may affect the property or functions
of one another, do not require that entire immunity from
state taxation be afforded this piece of property because

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring.

327 U. S.

of the interest which the United States retained to secure
the unpaid purchase price. Since the Government's security is left untouched by Minnesota, what remains of
the Government's relation to the property is too attenuated to withdraw it entirely from Minnesota's taxing
power.
The matter would hardly be open to question but for a
series of cases arising under land grant legislation. As the
opinion of the Court persuasively shows, these decisions
rest upon considerations of policy not relevant to the
immediate situation.
I agree with the Chief Justice that our disposition of this
case should be confined to the only question raised by the
record, that of the State's power to tax, unembarrassed by
any issue as to territorial jurisdiction. The Chief Justice
gives conclusive ground for such abstention. Moreover,
even as to property indisputably owned by the Government, there may be "uncertainty and confusion" whether
jurisdiction belongs to the Federal Government or to a
State. See Bowen v. Johnston,306 U.S. 19,27; and Pacific
Coast Dairy v. Dept., 318 U. S. 285, 299. Taxability and
territorial jurisdiction are not correlative. We ought not
to borrow trouble.

