OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

presumably would have been cognizant of these facts.
Imagination need not be stretched to believe that even the
most competent attorney, confronted with such a situation, might have chosen to advise against moving to withdraw the plea rather than undertaking the heavy burden
of meeting it by proof at the trial.
In my opinion the damage done by the original invalid
plea was not removed by the attorney's eleventh-hour
entry nor could it have been at that time, fully and effectively, in view of the existing state of the law and the facts.
Accordingly, I think there was no effective waiver through
the late entrance of counsel and his hampered advice,
which as I understand is the only basis for the Court's
decision. There was no choice but Hobson's.

CASE, COMMISSIONER OF PUBLIC LANDS OF
THE STATE OF WASHINGTON, v. BOWLES,

PRICE ADMINISTRATOR,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 261. Argued January 10, 1946.-Decided February 4, 1946.
1. The Emergency Price Control Act applies to the sale by the State
of Washington of timber growing on lands granted by Congress to
the State "for the support of common schools," notwithstanding a
provision in the Enabling Act providing that these lands shall "be
disposed of only at public sale, and at a price not less than" $10
per acre and a provision of the state constitution that these lands
shall not be sold except "at public auction to the highest bidder"
at a price not less than the full market value found after appraisal
or "the price prescribed in the grant" of these lands. P. 98.
2. The Emergency Price Control Act applies generally to sales of
commodities by the States. P. 98.
(a) The definition in § 302 (h) making the Act applicable to the
United States "or any other government, or any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency of the foregoing," clearly is broad
enough to include the States. P. 98.

CASE v. BOWLES.
92

Syllabus.

(b) It would frustrate the purposes of the Act for the courts
to read exemptions into it which Congress did not see fit to put in
the language, since excessive prices for rents or commodities charged
by a State would produce exactly the same conditions as would be
produced were these prices charged by others. P. 99.
3. A special exemption can not be read into the Act in order to permit States holding land granted for school purposes to charge more
than the ceiling price set for timber. P. 100.
While congressional grants of land to the States for school purposes transferred exclusive ownership and control over those lands
to the States, no part of all the history concerning these grants
indicates a purpose on the part of Congress to enter into a permanent agreement with the States under which they would be free
to use the lands in a manner which would conflict with valid legislation enacted by Congress in the national interest. P. 100.
4. As thus construed, the Act is constitutional. P. 100.
(a) While the State does have power to own and control the
school lands here involved and to sell the lands or the timber growing on them, this power is subordinate to the power of Congress to
fix maximum prices in order to carry on war. P. 101.
(b) To hold otherwise would impair the constitutional grant of
power to make war, which was a prime purpose of the Federal Government's establishment. P. 102.
(c) The Tenth Amendment does not operate as a limitation upon
the powers, express or implied, delegated to the National Government. P. 102.
5. Section 201 (a) of the Emergency Price Control Act specifically
empowers the Price Administrator to commence suits to enjoin
violations of that Act and authorizes attorneys employed by him
to represent him in such suits. Therefore, 28 U. S. C. § 485, making
it the duty of district attorneys to prosecute most civil actions to
which the United States is a party, is not applicable to such proceedings. P. 96.
6. Where the complaint in a suit against a state officer to enjoin
violations of the Emergency Price Control Act does not challenge
the constitutionality of the state statute but merely 'alleges that its
enforcement would violate the Emergency Price Control Act, § 266
of the Judicial Code does not require that the case be tried by a
three-judge court. P. 97.
7. Neither Art. III, § 2, cl. 2, of the Constitution, giving this Court
original jurisdiction of all cases in which a State is a party, nor

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Statement of the Case.

327 U. S.

§ 233 of the Judicial Code, giving this Court exclusive jurisdiction
to try cases between a State and the United States, prevents a district court from having jurisdiction to try suits to enjoin state
officers from violating the Emergency Price Control Act. P. 97.
(a) Consistently with Art. III of the Constitution, Congress
can give the district courts jurisdiction to try controversies between
a State and the United States. P. 97.
(b) Section 205 (c) of the Emergency Price Control Act specifically gives the district courts jurisdiction over all enforcement suits
and supersedes § 233 of the Judicial Code to that extent. P. 97.
8. While the Emergency Price Control Act denies a defendant in an
enforcement proceeding the right to challenge the validity of the
regulation sought to be enforced (since exclusive initial jurisdiction
to determine this question is vested in the Emergency Court of
Appeals), it does not deny him the right to attack the Act itself
on constitutional grounds. P. 98.
9. In reviewing a judgment in an enforcement proceeding, this Court
ordinarily would not pass on the statutory authority of the Price
Administrator to promulgate a regulation, since Congress has
granted exclusive initial jurisdiction to determine that question to
the Emergency Court of Appeals. P. 98.
10. It will do so, however, where the right of Congress to regulate
certain prices is challenged on constitutional grounds, if it is not
a device to attack the regulations indirectly. P. 98.
149 F. 2d 777, affirmed.

After litigation instituted in a state court by the bidders
for certain timber on school lands of the State of Washington had resulted in a holding by the state supreme
court that the Emergency Price Control Act did not bar
the sale of school-land timber at a price above the ceiling
fixed pursuant to that Act, Soundview Pulp Co. v. Taylor,
21 Wash. 2d 261, the Price Administrator instituted suit
in a federal district court to enjoin the State Commissioner of Public Lands and the successful bidder at a
public auction from completing a sale of school-land timber at a price above the ceiling fixed by Maximum Price
Regulation No. 460, 8 Fed. Reg. 11850, as amended, 8
Fed. Reg. 13023. The district court denied the injunction and dismissed the complaint. The circuit court of

CASE v. BOWLES.
92

Opinion of the Court.

appeals reversed. 149 F. 2d 777. This Court granted
certiorari. 326 U. S. 706. Affirmed, p. 103.
R. A. Moen, Assistant Attorney General of Washington,
argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the brief
were Smith Troy, Attorney General, and Edwin C. Ewing,
Assistant Attorney General.
Robert L. Stern and Abraham Glasserargued the cause.
for the Price Administrator, respondent. With them on
the brief were Solicitor General McGrath and Milton
Klein.
Submitted on brief for the Soindview Pulp Company,
respondent, by W. Z. Kerr and E. S. McCord.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Congressional Enabling Act providing for the State
of Washington's admission to the Union granted certain
lands to that State "for the support of common schools."
25 Stat. 676, 679. Section 11 of the Enabling Act provided that these lands should "be 'disposed of only at
public sale, and at a price not less than ten dollars per
acre . . ." The State Constitution provides that these
lands shall not be sold except "at public auction to the
highest bidder" at a price which may not be below both
the full market value found after appraisal and "the price
prescribed in the grant" of these lands. In 1943 the State
Commissioner of Public Lands held a public auction for
the sale of timber on school lands. At that auction the
Soundview Pulp Company, one of the respondents, bid
$86,335.39 for some of the timber. This amount exceeded
by approximately $9,000.00 the ceiling price fixed by Maximum Price Regulation No. 460.1 The Price Administrator advised Soundview that consummation of the sale at
the bid price would constitute a violation of the regula18 Fed. Reg. 11850, as amended, 8 Fed. Reg. 13023.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

tion and of the Emergency Price Control Act.' Thereafter Soundview and the unsuccessful bidder, Coos Bay
Pulp Corporation, commenced actions in the state courts,
seeking an adjudication as to the legality of Soundview's
bid and of the proposed transfer of timber to Soundview.
This resulted in a holding by the state supreme court
that the Emergency Price Control Act did not bar the sale
of school-land timber at prices above the ceiling. Soundview Pulp Co. v. Taylor, 21 Wash. 2d 261, 150 P. 2d 839.
When, after this judgment was rendered, the parties were
about to complete the sale, the Price Administrator commenced this action in the federal district court to enjoin
the State Commissioner of Public Lands and Soundview
from completing the timber transaction at a price above
the ceiling fixed by the regulation. The district court
held that the Emergency Price Control Act did not grant
the Price Administrator authority to set maximum prices
for school-land timber sold by the State. The circuit
court of appeals reversed. 149 F. 2d 777. Because the
circuit court's decision conflicted with that of the Supreme
Court of Idaho in Twin Falls County v. Hulbert, 66
Idaho -, 156 P. 2d 319, we granted certiorari in both
cases.
Before considering the principal questions raised by the
State, we shall at the outset briefly dispose of certain procedural contentions. The State urges that the complaint
should have been dismissed because it was signed by attorneys employed by the Price Administrator and not by
the District Attorney or members of the Department of
Justice. True, 28 U. S. C. 485 makes it the duty of every
district attorney to prosecute most civil actions to which
the United States is a party. But this section does not
prescribe the procedure under the Emergency Price Control Act, for that Act specifically empowers the Administrator to commence actions such as this one and authorizes
2

56 Stat. 23, 58 Stat. 640; c. 214, 59 Stat. 306.

CASE v. BOWLES.
92

Opinion of the Court.

attorneys employed by him to represent him in such actions. § 201 (a). The State contends further that this
case should have been tried by a district court composed of
three judges because § 266 of the Judicial Code requires
such a proceeding whenever enforcement of a state statute
is sought to be enjoined on the ground that the statute is
unconstitutional. But here the complaint did not challenge the constitutionality of the state statute but alleged
merely that its enforcement would violate the Emergency
Price Control Act. Consequently a three-judge court is
not required. Ex parte Bransford, 310 U. S. 354, 358359; Query v. United States, 316 U. S. 486, 488-489. Another procedural point urged by the State is that since this
is in effect a controversy between the United States and
the State of Washington, the United States Supreme
Court has exclusive jurisdiction under Article III, § 2,
Clause 2, of the United States Constitution and the district court lacked power to try the case. But it is well
settled that despite Article III, Congress can give the district courts jurisdiction to try controversies between a
State and the United States.' Congress has given the district court power to try cases such as this one. While
§ 233 of the Judicial Code does give this Court exclusive
jurisdiction to try cases between a State and the United
States, § 205 (c) of the Emergency Price Control Act
specifically provides that the district court shall have
jurisdiction over all enforcement suits. To that extent
§ 205 (c) of the Price Control Act supersedes § 233 of the
Judicial Code. United States v. California, 297 U. S.
175, 186.
The State's principal contention is that sales by a State,
such as the one here involved, are not and cannot be made
subject to price control. Maximum Price Regulation No.
460, which the State's sale of timber allegedly violated,
3Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449; United States v. Louisiana, 123
U. S. 32; United States v. California,297 U. S. 175.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

specifically provides that it is applicable to sales by States.
The State makes the following contentions: (1) 'Insofar
as the regulation applies to state sales it is unauthorized
by the Emergency Price Control Act, since Congress did
not intend that Act to apply to States. (2) Even if the
Act was intended to apply to state sales, the Act should
not be construed as authorizing the Price Administrator
to fix a maximum price at which timber on school-land
grants can be sold by States. (3) If the Act is so construed, it violates the Fifth and Tenth Amendments to
the Constitution.
We ordinarily would not pass on the statutory authority
of the Administrator to promulgate the regulation in a
proceeding such as this one. For Congress has granted
exclusive initial jurisdiction to determine this question to
the Emergency Court of Appeals. Lockerty v. Phillips,
319 U. S. 182. But while the Act thus denies a defendant
in an enforcement proceeding the right to challenge the
validity of the regulation, it does not deny him the right
to attack the Emergency Price Control Act itself on constitutional grounds. Yakus v. UnitedStates, 321 U. S. 414,
430. Of course, this right may not be utilized as a means
of indirectly attacking the regulations themselves instead
of the statute. But here petitioner's third contention that
Congress lacks authority to regulate the prices of state
school-land timber extends beyond the implementing regulation and strikes at the Act itself. In order to reach this
constitutional question, we first have to decide whether
the Act, properly interpreted, is applicable to sales by
States, including sales of timber on school-grant lands.
The Emergency Price Control Act grants to the Price
Administrator broad powers to set maximum prices for
commodities and rents and makes it unlawful for "any
person" to violate these maximum price regulations. Section 302 (h) defines a "person" as including "an individ-

CASE v. BOWLES.
92

Opinion of the Court.

ual, corporation, partnership, association, or any other
organized group of persons, or legal successor or representative of any of the foregoing, and includes the United
States or any agency thereof, or any other government, or
any of its political subdivisions, or any agency of any of
the foregoing." This language on its face, and given its
ordinary meaning, would appear to be broad enough to
include any person, natural or artificial, or any group
or agency, public or private, which sells commodities " or
charges rents. The argument that the Act should not be
construed so as to include a State within the enumerated
list made subject to price regulation, rests largely on the
premise that Congress does not ordinarily attempt to regulate state activities and that we should not infer such an
intention in the absence of plain and unequivocal language. Petitioner presses this contention so far as to urge
us to accept as a general principle that unless Congress
actually uses the word "state," courts should not construe
regulatory enactments as applicable to the States. This
Court has previously rejected similar arguments,5 and we
cannot accept such an argument now.
We think it too plain, to call for extended discussion,
that Congress meant to include States and their political
subdivisions when it expressly made the Act applicable to
the United States "or any other government, or any of its
political subdivisions, or any agency of any of the foregoing . . ." Congress clearly intended to control all commodity prices and all rents with certain specific exceptions
which it declared. It would frustrate this purpose for
4 Section 302 of the Act defines "commodity" as including "services
rendered otherwise than as an employee in connection with the processing, distribution, storage, installation, repair, or negotiation of purchases or sales of a commodity, or in connection with the operation of
any service establishment for the servicing of a commodity."
5 Ohio v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360, 370; United States v. California,
297 U. S. 175, 186; California v. United States, 320 U. S. 577, 585.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

courts to read exemptions into the Act which Congress did
not see fit to put in the language. Excessive prices for
rents or commodities charged by a State or its agencies
would produce exactly the same conditions as would be
produced were these prices charged by other persons. We,
therefore, have no doubt that Congress intended the Act
to apply generally to sales of commodities by States.'
Nor can we accept the contention that a special exemption could be read into the Act in order to permit States
holding land granted for school purposes to charge more
than the ceiling price set for timber. In reaching this
conclusion we are not unaware of the difficulties which
confronted the Commissioner of Public Lands of the State
of Washington, nor of the importance of protecting the
public interest in those school lands. Both the Act of
Congress, which granted the land to Washington, and the
Constitution of the State, had provided for safeguards in
connection with the disposition of school lands. We do
not question the wisdom of these precautions. We are
mindful also of the fact that this Court has declared that
grants of land to the State, like those here involved, transferred exclusive ownership and control over those lands
to the State. Cooper v. Roberts, 18 How. 173. No part
of all the history concerning these grants, however, indicates a purpose on the part of Congress to enter into a
permanent agreement with the States under which States
would be free to use the lands in a manner which would
conflict with valid legislation enacted by Congress in the
national interest. Here again, the sale of school-land timber at above-ceiling prices could be just as disturbing to
the national inflation-control program as the charging of
excess prices for timber located on any other lands.
8

The Emergency Court of Appeals recently considered the same

question and reached the same conclusion.
F. 2d 464.

Dallas v. Bowles, 152

CASE v. BOWLES.
Opinion of the Court.

92

We now turn to petitioner's constitutional contention.
Though as we have pointed out petitioners have alleged
that the Act applied to setting a maximum price for
school-land timber violates the Fifth and Tenth Amendments, the argument here seems to spring from implications of the Tenth Amendment only. The contention
rests on the premise that there is a doctrine implied in the
Federal Constitution that "the two governments, national
and state, are each to exercise its powers so as not to interfere with the free and full exercise of the powers of the
other." It is not contended, and could not be under our
prior decisions, that the ceiling price fixed by the Administrator is constitutionally invalid as applied to privately
owned timber. Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S. 414;
Bowles v. Willingham, 321 U. S. 503. Nor is it denied
that the Administrator could have fixed ceiling prices if
the State had engaged in a sales business "having the incidents of similar enterprises usually prosecuted for private gain." Allen v. Regents, 304 U. S. 439, 452. But it
is argued that the Act cannot be applied to this sale because it was "for the purpose of gaining revenue to carry
out an essential governmental function-the education of
its citizens." Since the Emergency Price Control Act
has been sustained as a congressional exercise of the war
power, the petitioner's argument is that the extent of that
power as applied to state functions depends on whether
these are "essential" to the state government. The use
of the same criterion in measuring the constitutional
power of Congress to tax has proved to be unworkable, 7
and we reject it as a guide in the field here involved. Cf.
United States v. California,supra, 297 U. S. at 183-185.
The State of Washington does have power to own and
control the school lands here involved and to sell the lands
7

See the several opinions in New York v. United States, 326 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

or the timber growing on them, subject to the limitations
set out in the Enabling Act. And our only question is
whether the State's power to make the sales must be in
subordination to the power of Congress to fix maximum
prices in order to carry on war. For reasons to which we
have already adverted, an absence of federal power to fix
maximum prices for state sales or to control rents charged
by a State might result in depriving Congress of ability
effectively to prevent the evil of inflation at which the Act
was aimed. The result would be that the constitutional
grant of the power to make war would be inadequate
to accomplish its full purpose. And this result would
impair a prime purpose of the Federal Government's
establishment.
To construe the Constitution as preventing this would
be to read it as a self-defeating charter. It has never
been so interpreted. Since the decision in McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 420, it has seldom if ever been
doubted that Congress has power in order to attain a
legitimate end-that is, to accomplish the full purpose of
a granted authority-to use all appropriate means plainly
adapted to that end, unless inconsistent with other parts
of the Constitution. And we have said, that the Tenth
Amendment "does not operate as a limitation upon the
powers, express or implied, delegated to the national
government." 8
Where, as here, Congress has enacted legislation authorized by its granted powers, and where at the same time,
a State has a conflicting law which but for the congressional Act would be valid, the Constitution marks the
course for courts to follow. Article VI provides that "The
Constitution and the Laws of the United States ...
8

Fernandez v. Wiener, 326 U. S. 340, 362.

United States v. Darby,

312 U. S. 100, 124; Californiav. United States, supra; United States

v. California,supra; Oklahomav. Atkinson Co., 313 U. S. 508, 534-535.

HULBERT v. TWIN FALLS COUNTY.
92

Counsel for Parties.

made in Pursuance thereof . . .shall be the supreme
Law of the Land ..
Affirmed.
JUSTICE DOUGLAS would reverse the judgment for
the reasons set forth in his dissenting opinion in Hulbert
v.Twin Falls County, 327 U. S. 105.
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR.

HULBERT ET AL. V. TWIN FALLS COUNTY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF IDAHO.

No. 238. Argued January 10, 1946.-Decided February 4, 1946.
Maximum Price Regulation No. 133, promulgated by the Office of
Price Administration pursuant to the Emergency Price Control
Act, applies to a sale of a tractor by a county. Case v. Bowles,

ante, p. 92. P. 104.
66 Idaho -, 156 P. 2d 319, reversed.

An Idaho district court held the sale of a farm tractor
by a county to be subject to the Emergency Price Control
Act and Maximum Price Regulation No. 133 promulgated
pursuant thereto. The Supreme Court of Idaho reversed.
66 Idaho -, 156 P. 2d 319. This Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 707. Reversed, p. 105.
Robert L. Stern argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath and
Milton Klein.
Submitted on brief for respondent by Frank Langley,
Attorney General of Idaho, and Everett M. Sweeley.
For application of this principle see Hines v. Davidovitz, 312 U. S.
52, 68; Stewart & Co. v. Sadrakula, 309 U. S. 94, 104.

