OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

HEISER v. WOODRUFF

327 U. S.
ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 496. Argued March 5, 1946.-Decided April 22, 1946.
1. Where, in a bankruptcy proceeding, allowance of a claim based upon
a money judgment acquired against the bankrupt before the bankruptcy is objected to on the ground that the judgment was procured
by fraud, but the issue of fraud has been litigated and decided
between the claimant and the bankrupt before the bankruptcy and
has since been litigated and decided between the claimant and the
trustee in bankruptcy, that issue is res judicata and may not be
litigated further in the bankruptcy proceeding, even though, in the
previous litigation, the allegations of fraud were not supported by
tender of evidence or other proof. Pepperv. Litton, 308 U. S. 295,
differentiated. Pp. 731, 736.
2. While a bankruptcy court is also a court of equity and may exercise
equity powers in bankruptcy proceedings to set aside fraudulent
claims-including a fraudulent judgment where the issue of fraud
has not been adjudicated previously-and may subordinate the claim
of one creditor to those of others in order to prevent the consummation of a fraudulent or otherwise inequitable course of conduct,
no principle of law or equity sanctions the rejection by a federal
court of the salutary principle of res judicata. P. 732.
3. Since the Bankruptcy Act authorizes a proof of claim based on a
judgment, such a proof may be assailed in the bankruptcy court on
the ground that the purported judgment is not a judgment because
of want of jurisdiction of the court which rendered it over the persons
of the parties or the subject matter of the suit, or because it was
procured by fraud of a party. P. 736.
4. In passing upon a proof of claim based on a judgment, however, a
bankruptcy court may not reexamine the issues determined by the
judgment itself. P. 736.
5. It is well settled that, where a trustee in bankruptcy unsuccessfully
litigates an issue outside the bankruptcy court, the decision against
him is binding in the bankruptcy court. P. 733.
6. In general, a judgment is res judicata, not only as to all matters
litigated and decided by it but also as to all relevant issues which
could have been, but were not, raised and litigated in the suit.
P. 735.

HEISER v. WOODRUFF.
726

Counsel for Parties.

7. Nothing decided in Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, requires
a bankruptcy court, in applying the statutes of the United States
governing the liquidation of bankrupts' estates, to adopt local rules
of law in determining what claims are provable, or to be allowed,
or how the bankrupt's estate is to be distributed among claimants.
P. 732.
8. In passing upon a proof of claim based on a judgment, a bankruptcy
court proceeds-not without appropriate regard for rights acquired
under state law-under federal statutes which govern the proof and
allowance of claims based on judgments. P. 732.
9. In determining what judgments are provable and what objections
may be made to their proof, and in determining the extent to which
the inequitable conduct of a claimant in acquiring or asserting his
claim in bankruptcy requires its rejection or its subordination to
other claims which in other respects are of the same class, the bankruptcy court is defining and applying federal, not state, law. P. 732.
150 F. 2d 869, reversed.

Petitioner filed a claim in bankruptcy based upon a
money judgment acquired against the bankrupt before
bankruptcy.

Respondents objected on the ground that

the judgment was procured by fraud. The referee disallowed the claim. The District Court allowed the claim,
sustaining petitioner's contention that the issue of fraud

had been litigated previously and decided in petitioner's
favor in proceedings in which petitioner and the bankrupt
or his trustee, or both, had been parties, and was therefore
res judicata. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.

F. 2d 869. This Court grantdd certiorari.
Reversed, p. 740.

150

326 U. S. 715.

LeonardJ. Meyberg and Rupert B. Turnbull argued the
cause and filed a brief for petitioner.

Louis A. Fischl argued the cause for respondents. With
him on the brief were H. A. Ledbetter and Thos. W.
Champion.

728

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

Opinion of the Court by MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

327 U. S.
STONE,

announced by MR. JUSTICE BLACK.

This is a proceeding in bankruptcy on objections to the
allowance of petitioner's claim in bankruptcy based upon
a money judgment acquired against the bankrupt
before the bankruptcy. Respondents objected to allowance of the claim on the ground that, so far as here relevant, the judgment was procured by fraud, that is, by
perjured allegations in the complaint in the suit in which
the judgment was rendered, and by perjured testimony
as to the value of property alleged to have been converted
by the defendant.
The referee in bankruptcy disallowed the claim. On
the referee's certificate the district court, sitting in bankruptcy, allowed the claim, sustaining petitioner's contention that the issue of fraud in procurement of the
judgment had been previously litigated and decided in
petitioner's favor in proceedings in which the petitioner
and the bankrupt or his trustee, or both, had been parties,
and was therefore res judicata.

The Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit reversed.
150 F. 2d 869. Relying upon our decisions in Pepper v.
Litton, 308 U. S. 295, and Prudence Realization Corp. v.

Geist, 316 U. S. 89, it held that the court of bankruptcy
could go behind the prior adjudications of the validity of
the judgment and decide for itself the questions previously litigated and decided, whether the cause of action
on which the judgment was entered was meritorious, and

whether the claim in bankruptcy should be rejected because based on a judgment procured by claimant's fraud.
The Court of Appeals accordingly remanded the cause to
the district court for further proceedings on the objections
to allowance of the claim. We granted certiorari, 326
U. S. 715, upon a petition which raises the questions
whether the bankruptcy court may re-adjudicate the
merits of a cause of action on which a judgment against

HEISER v. WOODRUFF.
726

Opinion of the Court.

the bankrupt, proved as a claim in bankruptcy, was
entered and may disregard a previous adjudication between the parties that the judgment was not procured
by fraud.
Woodruff, the bankrupt, was adjudicated as such on his
voluntary petition on July 5, 1939. Petitioner, proceeding under § 63 (a) (1) of the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U. S. C.
103 (a), which provides that a fixed liability, evidenced
by a judgment, is a provable claim in bankruptcy, filed his
proof of claim in the bankruptcy court upon a default
judgment against Woodruff for the sum, including accrued
interest and costs, of more than $278,000. The suit in
which the judgment was procured was filed in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of California in July, 1935.. Judgment was entered for petitioner
on March 20, 1939, on proof taken of service of summons
on January 31, 1939, and of Woodruff's default and on
evidence given by the petitioner.
The suit was based on diversity of citizenship, and the
cause of action alleged was in substance that Woodruff
had procured property of petitioner, consisting of rough
sapphires, opals and zircons, of a stated value of $164,000,
by false pretenses and false representations, the details of
which are not now material, and had thereafter converted
them to his own use.
On March 29, 1939, shortly after the judgment was rendered, Woodruff filed a motion iA the trial court to set it
aside. The motion, so far as it was based upon the alleged
failure to serve the defendant Woodruff with. process, was
denied on June 8, 1939. But the court, on stipulation of
the parties, directed that a hearing be held to determine
the value of the converted gems and provided that at the
hearing "such competent evidence as either party desire
to present be received" and considered by the court "in
determining the actual value of the property" which the
plaintiff alleged was converted by defendants. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

court's order further provided that the judgment should
be reduced in the amount by which the adjudged value of
the gems exceeded the actual value as found at the hearing. After a contested hearing at which evidence, oral
and documentary, was received, the trial court made a,
minute order stating that the court found that the values
of the converted property were those alleged in the complaint, and declined to give further consideration to the
motion to set aside the judgment. No appeal was taken
from the judgment, and no review was had of the minute
order or of the denial of the motion to set the judgment
aside.
On August 23, 1939, on application of Jackson, the trustee of the bankrupt's estate, which certain creditors supported, the referee in bankruptcy authorized and directed
the trustee "to take such legal steps as may be proper
and necessary under the law to vacate, set aside and to
avoid" the judgment, and authorized him to retain counsel in the Southern District of California for that purpose.
This was followed by a motion on behalf of the bankrupt's
trustee, and the bankrupt, in the district court for that
district, to set aside the judgment on the grounds, among
others, that no proper service of process had been made
on the defendant, that the complaint did not state a
cause of action, that "a fraud was practiced upon the
above entitled court with respect to the entry of said
judgment", and that the trustee and the bankrupt "have
been prevented from presenting said defense upon any
trial of the merits by reason of fraud, accident, surprise
and excusable neglect as is more particularly shown by the
affidavits" upon which the motion was made. The affidavit of the trustee in support of the motion stated that
the judgment was "based upon fictitious values and was
obtained by methods which amount to a constructive
fraud upon the other creditors and your affiant, as representative of said creditors". Counter affidavits by peti-

HEISER v. WOODRUFF.
726

Opinion of the Court.

tioner and his attorney in the suit in which the judgment
was rendered denied the allegations of fraud.
The district court denied the motion, and the Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed. 111 F. 2d 310. It
overruled all the alleged grounds for setting aside the
judgment, holding that the service of process was valid and
that in any case the defendant had appeared in the suit by
entering into the stipulation for trial of the issue of value
of the property alleged to have been converted and participating in the hearing on that issue. It also held that
the charge of fraud was denied and unsupported by proof,
adding "that ground of appellants' motion appears to
have been abandoned." There was no review of this
decision.
The court below, in rejecting petitioner's plea of res
judicata, and in directing inquiry into the merits of the
original cause of action and into the allegation of fraud
in procurement of the judgment, rested its decision upon
the ground that the bankrupt's trustee had failed to place
before the California district court any contention or proof
that petitioner's testimony, particularly as to the value of
the converted property, was perjured, that the bankrupt
was not indebted to petitioner, or that the allegations of
the complaint were untrue. The court, relying on 'epper
v. Litton, supra,also held that the bankruptcy court, being
a court having equity powers, was not bound by the principles of res judicata as to issues which were not pressed
before the California district court, and that the authority
of the bankruptcy court as a court of equity included the
power to inquire into the validity of the claim upon which
the judgment, presented as a claim against the estate, was
based.
- We need not consider whether, apart from the requirements of the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution, the rule of res judicata applied in the federal courts,
in diversity of citizenship cases, under the doctrine of

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64; cf. Guaranty Trust
Co. v. York, 326 U. S. 99; Holmberg v. Armbrecht, 327
U. S.392, can be other than that of the state in which the
federal court sits. For nothing decided in Erie R. Co. v.
Tompkins, supra,requires a court of bankruptcy, in applying the statutes of the United States governing the liquidation of bankrupts' estates, to adopt local rules of law in
determining what claims are provable, or to be allowed, or
how the bankrupt's estate is to be distributed among
claimants. Cf. Board of Comm'rs v. United States, 308
U. S.343; Deitrick v. Greaney, 309 U. S. 190; D'Oench,
Duhme & Co. v. F. D. I. C., 315 U. S. 447; Helvering v.
Stuart, 317 U. S.154, 161-2; Sola Electric Co. v. Jefferson
Co., 317 U. S. 173, 176; Wragg v. Federal Land Bank, 317
U. S.325, 328; Clearfield Trust Co. v. United States, 318
U. S.363. In passing upon and rejecting or allowing the
proof of claim in this case the court of bankruptcy proceeds-not without appropriate regard for rights acquired
under state law-under federal statutes which govern the
proof and allowance of claims based on judgments. In
determining what judgments are provable and what objections may be made to their proof; and in determining the
extent to which the inequitable conduct of a claimant in
acquiring or asserting his claim in bankruptcy, requires
its rejection or its subordination to other claims which, in
other respects are of the same class, the bankruptcy court
is defining and applying federal, not state, law. See
Prudence Realization Corp. v. Geist, supra, 95, 96 and
cases cited; cf. United States v. Pelzer, 312 U. S. 399,
402-03.
It is true that a bankruptcy court is also a court of
equity, Local Loan Co. v. Hunt, 292 U. S.234, 240, and
may exercise equity powers in bankruptcy proceedings to
set aside fraudulent claims, including a fraudulent judgment where the, issue of fraud has not been previously
adjudicated. Pepper v. Litton, supra, 306. In appro-

HEISER v. WOODRUFF.
726

Opinion of the Court.

priate cases, acting upon equitable principles, it may also
subordinate the claim of one creditor to those of others in
order to prevent the consummation of a course of conduct
by the claimant which, as to them, would be fraudulent or
otherwise inequitable. Taylor v. Standard Gas Co., 306
U. S. 307; Pepperv. Litton, supra; Prudence Realization
Corp. v. Geist, supra; American Surety Co. v. Sampsell,
327 U. S. 269. But we are aware of no principle of law or
equity which sanctions the rejection by a federal court
of the salutary principle of res judicata,which is founded
upon the generally recognized public policy that there
must be some end to litigation and that when one appears
in court to present his case, is fully heard, and the contested issue is decided against him, he may not later renew
the litigation in another court. Baldwin v. Traveling
Men's Assn., 283 U. S. 522, 525-6.
Before Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins it was recognized by this
Court that, apart from the full faith and credit clause, a
judgment duly rendered in one court will be recognized as
res judicata in a suit between the same parties in a federal
court. Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351; Case v.
Beauregard,101 U. S. 688; Baltimore S. S. Co. v. Phillips,
274 U. S. 316; Grubb v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 281
U. S. 470. See Baldwin v. Traveling Men's Assn., supra,
and cases cited; cf. Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Schendel,
270 U. S. 611; Milwaukee County v. White Co., 296 U. S.
268, 272-3. It has been held in non-diversity cases, since
Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, that the federal courts will apply their own rule of res judicata. Sunshine Coal Co. v.
Adkins, 310 U. S. 381, 403; Jackson v. Irving Trust Co.,
311 U.. S. 494, 503. This Court has also required that effect be given in both state and federal courts to a plea of
res judicata arising from decrees of a bankruptcy court.
Stoll v. Gottlieb, 305 U. S. 165; Chicot County Dist. v.
Bank, 308 U. S. 371. And it is well settled that where the
trustee in bankruptcy unsuccessfully litigates an issue out-

734

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

side the bankruptcy court the decision against him is binding in the bankruptcy court. Davis v. Friedlander,104
U. S. 570; Fischerv. PaulineOil Co., 309 U. S. 294, 302-03.
At least to the extent that the issue of fraud raised by the
objections to petitioner's claim as between petitioner and
the bankrupt has been litigated and decided before the
bankruptcy and has since been litigated between the petitioner and the trustee in bankruptcy, who represents the
bankrupt and his creditors, that issue is now res judicata
and may not further be litigated in the bankruptcy proceeding. Hence we turn to the question, what issues essential to the allegations that the judgment was procured
by fraud have been so litigated.
Examination of the record in this proceeding, including
the objections filed to petitioner's claim, the applications
of the bankrupt, the trustee, and the creditors, for authority to attack the judgment in the District Court of Southern California, and the proceedings instituted in that court
for that purpose, make plain the nature of the fraud
charged against petitioner. Shortly stated it is that in the
course of transactions with petitioner the bankrupt acquired possession of and converted to his own use a quantity of worthless minerals, owned or previously owned or
possessed by petitioner, who, by means of perjured allegations in the complaint and perjured testimony as to their
amount and value, procured a default judgment against
the bankrupt for an amount in excess of their value.
It is evident that an essential element of the claim of
fraud is that the alleged converted minerals were worth
substantially less than the $164,000 alleged to be their
value in the complaint, for which the judgment was rendered. But before'the bankruptcy this issue of value had
been litigated between petitioner and the bankrupt in
the District Court for Southern California. In the course
of the proceedings had on the bankrupt's motion to set
aside the judgment, the district court decided the issue

HEISER v. WOODRUFF.
726

Opinion of the Court.

against the bankrupt and declined to disturb the judgment. No appeal was taken from the judgment and consequently there was no review of the denial of the bankrupt's motion to set aside or modify the judgment, or of
the court's minute order finding that the converted gems
were of the value alleged in the complaint.
The same issue as to value and also the issue whether
there was perjured testimony of value were raised in the
proceeding later brought in the District Court for Southern California by the*trustee in behalf of the bankrupt
to set aside the judgment. In his application to the bankruptcy court to direct the trustee to bring the proceeding,
the bankrupt had represented that "the material allegations of the complaint filed in said case [in the District
Court for Southern California] are untrue"; that "the
raw gems described in plaintiff's complaint were at no
time of the value of $164,000.00 or any comparable value".
As already noted the papers on the motion in behalf of
the trustee and the bankrupt to vacate the judgment, set
up that the judgment was based on"fictitious values" and
was fraudulently procured. In that proceeding the charge
of fraud thus alleged was put in issue by the answering
affidavits. The denial of the motion by the district court
was affirmed by the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on the ground that the applicants had not sustained
their allegations of fictitious value and fraud by any tender of evidence or other proof. This was a final judgment
on the issues thus raised, binding on the parties to the
proceeding. It is not any the less so, as the Court of
Appeals thought, because the moving parties failed to
support their allegations by evidence.
In general a judgment is res judicata not only as to all
matters litigated and decided by it, but as to all relevant
issues which could have been but were not raised and litigated in the suit. Cromwell v. County of Sac, supra,352;
Grubb v. Public Utilities Comm'n, supra, 479; Chicot

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

County Dist. v. Bank, supra, 375. But here the alleged
fraud was put in issue and the issue was decided against
the trustee, the bankrupt and those whom they represent
or who claim under them, for failure of proof. After two
proceedings, in one of which the bankrupt and in the
other of which the bankrupt and his trustee, sought, and
were free, to prove that the judgment was based on fraudulently alleged, fictitious values, and in both of which
the decision was against them, the principles of res judicata preclude the revival of the litigation in the bankruptcy court.
Pepper v. Litton, supra, lends no support to a different
view. Undoubtedly, since the Bankruptcy Act authorizes
a proof of claim based on a judgment, such a proof may
be assailed in the bankruptcy court on the ground that
the purported judgment is not a judgment because of want
of jurisdiction of the court which rendered it over the persons of the parties or the subject matter of the suit, or because it was procured by fraud of a party. Pepper v.
Litton, supra, 306; Chandler v. Thompson, 120 F. 940;
In re Continental Engine Co., 234 F. 58; In re Stucky
Trucking & Rigging Co., 243 F. 287; In re Rubin, 24 F.
2d 289. But it is quite another matter to say that the
bankruptcy court may reexamine the issues determined by
the judgment itself. It has, from an early date, been held
to the contrary. McKinsey v. Harding, Fed. Cas. No.
8,866; Ex parte O'Neil, Fed. Cas. No. 10,527; In re Ulfelder
Co., 98 F. 409; Peters v. UnitedStates, 177 F. 885; Handlan v. Walker, 200 F. 566; In re Ganet Realty Corp., 83 F.
2d 945; Lyders v. Petersen, 88 F. 2d 9. Nor can an attack
be sustained on a judgment allegedly procured by fraudulent representations of the plaintiff, when the charge of
fraud has been rejected in previous litigations by the
parties to the suit in which the judgment was rendered,
or their representatives. Pepper v. Litton, supra, 306, n.
13; cf. Mays v. Fritton,20 Wall. 414; Jerome v. McCarter,
94 U. S. 734, 737; McHenry v. La Societ Fran~aise,95

HEISER v. WOODRUFF.
726

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 58; Davis v. Friedlander,supra; Winchester v. Heiskell, 119 U. S. 450, 453; ,Grantv. Buckner, 172 U. S. 232,
238.
Neither Pepper v. Litton, supra, on which respondents
chiefly rely, nor the other cases which they cite, sustain
the contention that the bankruptcy court, in passing on
the validity of creditors' claims, may disregard the principle of res judicata. In that case the judgment creditor
sought by proof of claim on his judgment to share in the
assets of the bankrupt estate, which were insufficient to

satisfy the rival claim of another judgment creditor. We
assumed, for purposes of decision, that the claim on which
the disputed judgment was based was founded on a valid
debt. But the court held that as the judgment creditor
was also a controlling stockholder of the bankrupt corporation he was a fiduciary for the other creditors of the corporation and, as such, could not prove his claim in competition with other creditors or gain from the estate any
personal advantage, security, or priority over them. After
referring to certain cases in which creditors' claims had
been disallowed and saying: "These cases do not turn on
the existence or non-existence of the debt. Rather they
involve simply the question of order of payment," 308
U. S. 310, the Court concluded: "Where there is a violation of those principles, equity will undo the wrong or intervene to prevent its consummation. On such a test the
action of the District Court in disallowing or subordinating Litton's claim was clearly correct." 308 U. S. 311. Cf.
Taylor v. Standard Gas Co., supra.
Although the trustee in bankruptcy in Pepper v. Litton
had unsuccessfully attacked the judgment in another proceeding in the state courts, this Court pointed out that
in that proceeding no question was presented "whether
or not the . . judgment might be subordinated to the

claims of other creditors upon equitable principles," 308
U. S. 302-03, and that "the only decree which was asked
or could be given in the plaintiff's favor ' under the plead-

738

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

ings "was for cancellation of the judgment as a record obligation of the bankrupt." 308 U. S. 303. It was thus
made plain that the theory relied upon as requiring disallowance or subordination of the contested claim rested
upon grounds not previously adjudicated, and we explicitly noted that the state court did not adjudicate it.
308 U. S. 302-03.*
*In Pepper v. Litton, 308 U. S. 295, the Court found that Litton, a
"dominant and controlling" stockholder of the bankrupt corporation
entered into a "planned and fraudulent scheme" which was "plainly
for the sole purpose of avoiding payment of the Pepper debt," which
was then owed by the corporation. The fraudulent scheme, which was
initiated shortly before the bankruptcy, involved several successive
steps, as follows: Litton procured a judgment in his favor against the
corporation, upon an alleged fictitious claim for salary, which was
entered on confession in its behalf by one of its officers, who was also
an employee of Litton and subservient to his will. A second judgment
having been entered against the corporation upon the debt to Pepper,
and, execution upon the Pepper judgment having been stayed pending
an appeal by the corporation, Litton then became the purchaser of
certain property of the corporation on execution sale under his judgment, and transferred the property to a newly organized corporation
in exchange for all its stock. He then caused the judgment debtor to
be adjudged a bankrupt on its voluntary petition and filed in the
bankruptcy proceeding proof of claim upon the confessed judgment.
In the meantime Pepper had brought suit in the Virginia state
courts to have the Litton judgment set aside as void. Following the
sale of the corporation's property under the Litton execution, the
sheriff instituted an interpleader suit joining Litton and Pepper as
claimants to the proceeds of the execution sale in the sheriff's hands.
Litton and Pepper both answered, asserting claims to the proceeds
subject to an existing prior lien. Thereafter the trustee in bankruptcy,
with the authority of the bankruptcy court, moved in the state court
to set aside the Litton judgment and to quash the execution on the
ground that the judgment was void, since the confession did not conform to the Virginia statutes. That court concluded that the Litton
judgment was void, but denied the motion on the ground that the
trustee was estopped to challenge it.
It held that Pepper, in asserting a claim to the proceeds of the
sheriff's sale in the interpleader suit, had treated them as validly
derived from the execution sale on the Litton judgment, and that in
consequence he had elected to recognize the validity of the judgment.

HEISER v. WOODRUFF.
726

739

Opinion of the Court.

Here when the petitioner brought his suit for conversion he was not a fiduciary for the defendant, Woodruff,
or his creditors. There was no equitable ground upon
As at-that time Litton had acquired or caused to be withdrawn from
the bankruptcy proceedings all the claims against the estate, other
than the Pepper judgment, the court held that the trustee was representing only Pepper in the state court suit and that the trustee, as
well as Pepper, was estopped to maintain it. The judgment was
affirmed on these grounds by the Virginia Supreme Court. Smith v.
Litton, 167 Va. 263, 188 S. E. 214. On objections to the claim on the
Litton judgment the district court, sitting in bankruptcy, disallowed
the claim. On appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, holding
that the decision and judgment of the state court in Smith v. Litton,
supra, were res judicata in the bankruptcy proceeding. 100 F. 2d
830.
This Court, in reversing the judgment of the Court of Appeals,
pointed out that the challenge to the validity of the Litton judgment
in the state court was on the ground that the judgment was irregular
or void on its face because the confession of judgment did not conform to the requirements of state law. We also pointed out that under
the pleadings and practice in the suit attacking the judgment the validity of the alleged debt for salary was not in issue and no question was
in issue or presented whether the Litton judgment might, on equitable
principles, be subordinated to the claims of other creditors. We said,
page 303: "The only decree which was asked or could be given in the
plaintiff's favor" under the pleadings "was for cancellation of the
judgment as a record obligation of the bankrupt. It is therefore plain
that the issue which the bankruptcy court later considered was not an
issue in the trial of the cause in the state court and could not be
adjudicated there."
Thus the Court recognized that the judgment of the state court in
Smith v. Litton, supra, was not res judicata as to matters later ruled.
upon by the bankruptcy court and by this Court. Upon this assumption, and assuming also the validity of the alleged salary debt underlying the Litton judgment, this Court held, on equitable principles,
that Litton was not free to assert his judgment in competition with
other creditors because he had acquired the judgment in breach of the
fiduciary obligation which a controlling stockholder of the bankrupt
owes to the other creditors, not to secure for himself a personal advantage by way of security or priority over them. Cf. Taylor v.
StandardGas Co., 306 U. S.307.
The decision in Pepper v. Litton thus affords no support for petitioner's contention that the doctrine of res judicata is inapplicable

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of

RUTLFE_,

J.

327 U. S.

which his claim or the judgment upon it could be set aside
or subordinated to those of other creditors in the bankruptcy proceeding, except that asserted by respondents
that the judgment had been procured by a fraud perpetrated on the judgment debtor. That issue, having
been twice litigated and decided in the court in which
the judgment was rendered, in proceedings brought by
the trustee in bankruptcy and the bankrupt, and by the
bankrupt alone, may not now be relitigated in the bankruptcy court.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE

BLACK and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS dis-

senting.
We would affirm the judgment for the reasons stated

by Judge Bratton writing for the Circuit Court of Appeals. 150 F. 2d 869.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE

RUTLEDGE.

I concur in the result. In my judgment it is necessary,
in this case, to do no more than to rule that equitable
principles, applicable in bankruptcy in accordance with
in a, bankruptcy proceeding. Cases on which respondents rely, cited
in Pepper v. Litton, as illustrating the extent to which a court may
look behind a judgment proved in bankruptcy to ascertain the nature
of a claim upon which the judgment is based, are concerned exclusively
with the question of the nature of the liability represented by the
judgment, that is, whether it represents a "debt" provable and dischargeable in bankruptcy under §§ 17 and 63 of the Bankruptcy Act.
Thus a decree for alimony was held to be not a "debt" but in the
nature of a penalty for failure to perform a duty, and not provable or
dischargeable in bankruptcy. Wetmore v. Markoe, 196 U. S. 68.
Those cases do not support the ruling of the Court of Appeals below
that the bankruptcy court, in determining the validity of a provable
claim upon a judgment, may reexamine the issues which were litigated
by the bankrupt or his trustee in the suit in which the judgment was
rendered or in any other. See Boynton v. Ball, 121 U. S. 457.

HEISER v. WOODRUFF.
726

Opinion of RuLE

741

, J.

Pepper v. Litton, 308 U. S. 295, and prior decisions, do
not require reexamination by the bankruptcy court, in
the circumstances now presented, of the foundations of
the judgment which is the basis of the claim in issue.

If,

as the Court declared in Pepper v. Litton, the bankruptcy
court has power to reject claims, even when previously

allowed, "in whole or in part 'according to the equities of

the case,'" 308 U. S. at 304,1 see 11 U. S. C. § 93 (k), I
find no reason for qualifying that rule in this case.

It

necessarily comprehends that the bankruptcy court in
the allowance or rejection and ordering of claims shall
not be bound by any broad or rigid rule of res judicata.
That, I think, is the essential ruling of the Pepper case.2
On the other hand, prior adjudication of the very

grounds alleged for disallowing or subordinating a judgI "Allowance and disallowance are judicial acts ....
In passing
on an allowance of claims the court sits as a court of equity, which
gives it far-reaching powers 'to sift the circumstances surrounding any
claim to see that injustice or unfairness is not done in administration
of the bankrupt estate.' [Pepperv. Litton, 308 U. S. 295, 308.] Mere
reasons of equity may sometimes require that a creditor's claim be
either totally disallowed or subordinated to the claims of all or of
certain other general creditors . . . . Equities to be weighed in connection with the allowance of a claim may vary in importance. They
may in extreme cases be strong enough to warrant disallowance absolutely and entirely. In other cases equity may be satisfied with a mere
'subordination' or postponement of a claim, and its relegation to a
rank inferior to that of all general creditors or of a particular group."
3 Collier, Bankruptcy (14th ed.) 185-186. See also 3 id. at 18001801.
11 U. S. C. § 93 (a) provides: "A proof of claim shall consist of a
statement under oath, in writing and signed by a creditor, setting forth
the claim; the consideration therefor; whether any and, if so, what
securities are held therefor; and whether any and, if so, what payments have been made thereon; and that the claim is justly owing
from the bankrupt to the creditor." (Emphasis added.)
2 The case has been so read. Citing it, 3 Collier, Bankruptcy (14th
ed.) 1800, says: "The doctrine of res judicata,as applied to the bankruptcy court in deciding whether a claim should be allowed, disallowed
or subordinated, is subject to the paramount equitable powers of bankruptcy courts to prevent the perpetration of fraud and collusion."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

ment claim, cannot be irrelevant to what equitable principles may require the bankruptcy court to do in disposing of the claim. And the same may be true also of prior
failure to secure such an adjudication when adequate
opportunity is afforded by proceedings instituted to set
aside or modify the judgment. Cf. Handlan v. Walker,
200 F. 566. Sound policies of judicial administration,
affecting both the bankruptcy court and the court rendering the judgment, may have a similar bearing.
In this case the two separate proceedings had in the
District Court for the Southern District of California
afforded perhaps more than adequate opportunity for
adjudication of the issues now raised in the bankruptcy
court, once to the bankrupt, once to his trustee. These
proceedings were allowed to be terminated adversely in
the one case without appeal, in the other after adverse
decision on appeal and without application for certiorari.
Jackson v. Heiser, 111 F. 2d 310. I do not think equity
requires a third opportunity to be afforded by the bankruptcy court. On this ground i agree that the judgment
should be reversed.

UNITED STATES v. RICE, DISTRICT JUDGE.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 411. Argued February 5, 1946.-Decided April 22, 1946.
1. A circuit court of appeals may not, by mandamus, review a judg-ment of a district court ordering remand to a state court of a
proceeding which had been removed to the district court upon
petition of the United States pursuant to § 3 of the Act of April 12,
1926, relating to suits involving title to lands allotted to members of
the Five Civilized Tribes in Oklahoma. Pp. 744, 753.
(a) The United States can not assert, by virtue of its sovereignty,
a right of appeal which no statute confers. P. 749.
(b) Section 3 of the Act of April 12, 1926, does not confer upon
the Government any right of review of an order remanding a cause

