OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

ment claim, cannot be irrelevant to what equitable principles may require the bankruptcy court to do in disposing of the claim. And the same may be true also of prior
failure to secure such an adjudication when adequate
opportunity is afforded by proceedings instituted to set
aside or modify the judgment. Cf. Handlan v. Walker,
200 F. 566. Sound policies of judicial administration,
affecting both the bankruptcy court and the court rendering the judgment, may have a similar bearing.
In this case the two separate proceedings had in the
District Court for the Southern District of California
afforded perhaps more than adequate opportunity for
adjudication of the issues now raised in the bankruptcy
court, once to the bankrupt, once to his trustee. These
proceedings were allowed to be terminated adversely in
the one case without appeal, in the other after adverse
decision on appeal and without application for certiorari.
Jackson v. Heiser, 111 F. 2d 310. I do not think equity
requires a third opportunity to be afforded by the bankruptcy court. On this ground i agree that the judgment
should be reversed.

UNITED STATES v. RICE, DISTRICT JUDGE.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 411. Argued February 5, 1946.-Decided April 22, 1946.
1. A circuit court of appeals may not, by mandamus, review a judg-ment of a district court ordering remand to a state court of a
proceeding which had been removed to the district court upon
petition of the United States pursuant to § 3 of the Act of April 12,
1926, relating to suits involving title to lands allotted to members of
the Five Civilized Tribes in Oklahoma. Pp. 744, 753.
(a) The United States can not assert, by virtue of its sovereignty,
a right of appeal which no statute confers. P. 749.
(b) Section 3 of the Act of April 12, 1926, does not confer upon
the Government any right of review of an order remanding a cause

UNITED STATES v. RICE.
742

Statement of the Case.

removed under that Act; and § 2 of the Judiciary Act of 1887 intended to withhold it in all cases of removal from state courts.
Pp. 749, 751.
2. Statutory language and objective appearing with reasonable clarity
are not to be overcome by resort to a mechanical rule of construction,
whose function is not to create doubts but to resolve them when
the real issue or statutory purpose is otherwise obscure. P. 753.

Proceedings were begun in a County Court for administration on the estate of a restricted Indian member of
the Five Civilized Tribes in Oklahoma. The County
Court appointed administrators. The United States petitioned for an order of removal pursuant to § 3 of the Act
of April 12, 1926, 44 Stat. 239. The County Court made
its order of removal and a transcript of the proceedings
was filed in the District Court. The United States petitioned for intervention in the District Court and prayed
for a determination of the decedent's heirs and of the
specific parts of his property which are restricted and subject to the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior.
On motion of the administrators appointed by the County
Court, the District Court dismissed the petition in intervention without prejudice and remanded the proceeding
to the County Court for want of jurisdiction in the District
Court. In re Micco's Estate, 59 F. Supp. 434.
The United States applied to the Circuit Court of Appeals for leave to file a petition for a writ of mandamus to
direct the District Court to vacate its judgment dismissing the petition for intervention and remanding the
proceeding.
Being equally divided on two questions, (1) whether
the judgment of remand is reviewable by mandamus, and
(2) whether the proceeding was removable under the Act
of April 12, 1926, the Circuit Court of Appeals certified a
single question for the:consideration of this-Court: "May
this: court, by mandamus, review the- judgment of the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Oklahoma ordering the remand of the proceeding to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

It further requested this Court to exercise its authority under
§ 239 of the Judicial Code, "to require the entire record in
the cause to be sent up for its consideration and to decide
the whole matter in controversy." The Government made
a motion to like effect.
The certified question is answered "No" and the Government's motion that this Court order up the entire
record is denied. P. 753.
County Court of Okfuskee County, Oklahoma?"

Marvin J. Sonosky argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
McGrath and J. Edward Williams.
Alfred Stevenson argued the cause for Judge Rice.
With him on the brief was W. T. Anglin.
Opinion of the Court by MR. CHIEF

announced by MR. JUSTICE BLACK.

JUSTICE

STONE,

In this case the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit,
acting under § 239 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 346,
has certified a question of law upon which it desires the
instruction of this Court for the proper decision of the
cause. The question is whether that court may, by mandamus, review the judgment of the District Court for
Eastern Oklahoma ordering the remand of a proceeding
to the County Court of Okfuskee County, Oklahoma, from
which it had been previously removed to the district court
pursuant to § 3 of the Act of April 12, 1926, c. 115, 44
Stat. 239.
The certificate shows that proceedings were begun in
the county court by a petition for administration on the
estate of Peter Micco, a restricted Indian member of the
Five Civilized Tribes in Oklahoma. The county court
granted the petition, and appointed administrators. Section 3 of the Act of April 12, 1926, provides that a party
to a suit "in the State courts of Oklahoma to which a re-

UNITED STATES v. RICE.
742

Opinion of the Court.

stricted member of the Five Civilized Tribes in Oklahoma,
or the restricted heirs or grantees of such Indian are
parties, . . . and claiming or entitled to claim title to or

an interest in lands allotted to a citizen of the Five Civilized Tribes or the proceeds, issues, rents, and profits derived from the same, may serve written notice of the
pendency of such suit upon the Superintendent for the
Five Civilized Tribes". The United States is afforded a
specified time after notice is given to appear in the suit,
and after such appearance, or the expiration of the time
specified, it is provided that "the proceedings and judgment in said cause shall bind the United States and the
parties thereto to the same extent as though no Indian
land or question were involved." The Act further provides
that
"the United States may be, and hereby is, given the
right to remove any such suit pending in a State court
to the United States district court by filing in such
suit in the State court a petition for the removal of
such suit into the said United States district court,
to be held in the district where such suit is pending,
together with the certified copy of the pleadings in
such suit . . . It shall then be the duty of the State

court to accept such petition and proceed no further
in said suit. The said copy shall be entered in the

said district court of the United States . . . and the

defendants and intervenors in said suit shall within
twenty days thereafter plead, answer, or demur to
the declaration or complaint in said cause, and the
cause shall then proceed in the same manner as if it
had been originally commenced in said district court,
and such court is hereby given jurisdiction to hear
and determine said suit, and its judgment may be
reviewed by certiorari, appeal, or writ of error in like
manner as if the suit had been originally brought in
said district court."
Following the service upon the Superintendent of the
Five Civilized Tribes of notice of the pendency of the suit
in the county court, the United States timely filed its

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

petition in that court for an order of removal, alleging
that the proceeding was instituted to obtain the appointment of an administrator for the estate of a three-fourths
blood Seminole Indian; that a portion of said estate, comprising real and personal property, is restricted under the
laws of the United States; that title to and interests in
restricted land are involved; that the heirs at law of Micco
are restricted Indians and wards of the United States.
Thereupon the county court made its order of removal,
and a transcript of the proceedings was filed in the district
court. The United States then filed its complaint in
intervention in the district court, praying a determination
of the heirs of Peter Micco, and of the specific parts of
decedent's property which are restricted and subject to
the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior. On motion of the administrators appointed by the county court,
the district court entered an order dismissing the complaint in intervention without prejudice, and remanding
the proceeding to the county court for want of jurisdiction
in the district court. In re Micco's Estate, 59 F. Supp.
434. The United States thereupon instituted this proceeding in the circuit court of appeals by a petition for
writ of mandamus, to direct the district court to vacate
its judgment dismissing the Government's petition for
intervention and remanding the proceeding.
The certificate of the circuit court of appeals, after stating that the court is equally divided on two questions,
first, whether the judgment of remand is reviewable by
mandamus, and, second, whether the proceeding was removable under the provisions of the Act of 1926, certified
a single question for our consideration, as follows: "May
this court, by mandamus, review the judgment of the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Oklahoma ordering the remand of the proceeding to the
County Court of Okfuskee County, Oklahoma?" The

UNITED STATES v. RICE.
742

Opinion of the Court.

certificate further requested this Court to exercise its authority under § 239 of the Judicial Code, "to require the
entire record in the cause to be sent up for its consideration and that it decide the whole matter in controversy."
The Government has made a motion to like effect.
In considering these requests, it is to be noted that the
only matter pending in the court below to which the certified question relates is the application filed in that court
for mandamus, on which the court has not acted. There
is consequently no order or judgment in the case which
can be brought before this Court by appeal. The practice
established by statute, 28 U. S. C. § 346, of answering questions certified to this Court, or in some such cases, of deciding the entire controversy on the whole record, is plainly
not within our original jurisdiction. As far as it is within
our appellate jurisdiction, our authority is defined wholly
by the statute, which provides that, upon the presentation
of the certificate, this Court "may require that the entire
record in the cause be sent up for its consideration, and
thereupon shall decide the whole matter in controversy
in the same manner as if it had been brought [here] by
writ of error or appeal." But the only manner in which
we, as an appellate court, can decide a controversy brought
here by writ of error or appeal is by affirming, reversing or
modifying the order or judgment before us for review. It
may be doubted whether the statute contemplates our going beyond the certified question, to decide a case or controversy not within our original jurisdiction, and which,
since no inferior court has decided it, could not be brought
here on appeal. But we need not resolve the doubt as to
our power here, for as will presently appear, the answer
which we give to the question certified is dispositive of the
whole case before the circuit court of appeals, making it
unnecessary to express an opinion on any other issue which
the record might present, or to order the record to be filed
here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

The Act of 1926, under which the cause, In re Micco's
Estate, was removed from the Oklahoma county court,
contains no provisions respecting remand or any mode of
review of an order of remand. But its provisions must be
read with those provisions governing removal of suits from
state courts to federal district courts, and their remand,
appearing in § 2 of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1887 (24
Stat. 552, reenacted to correct errors in enrollment, August
13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, and again reenacted and amended
March 3, 1911, 36 Stat. 1094, as § 28 of the Judicial Code,
28 U. S. C. § 71), and in § 37 of the Judicial Code, 28
U. S. C. § 80. Section 80 authorizes remand of "any suit"
removed from a state court to a district court where the
latter finds that it is without jurisdiction. Section 2 of
the Act of 1887 provided for the removal of diversity suits
from state courts to federal circuit courts, now district
courts, and, as corrected in 1888, contained a separate
paragraph, in terms relating to "any cause" removed from
a state court into a circuit court. This paragraph read:
"Whenever any cause shall be removed from any
State court into any circuit court of the United States,
and the circuit court shall decide that the cause was
improperly removed, and order the same to be remanded to the State court from whence it came, such
remand shall be immediately carried into execution,
and no appeal or writ of error from the decision of the
circuit court so remanding such cause shall be
allowed."
Before the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470,
472, an order of remand was deemed to be not reviewable
by appeal or writ of error because the order was not final.
RailroadCo. v. Wiswall, 23 Wall. 507; In re Pennsylvania
Co., 137 U. S. 451. But § 5 of the Act of 1875 expressly
authorized the review of an order of remand by appeal or
writ of error "in any suit" removed from a state court.
This provision was repealed by § 6 of the Act of 1887,
supra,and to make doubly certain, § 2, supra, specifically

UNITED STATES v. RICE.
742

Opinion of the Court.

prohibited appeals, with the added direction that the order
of remand should "be immediately carried into execution".
It thus appears that when the Act of 1926 was passed, the
practice in removal cases was, as it had been established
from the beginning, save for a brief interval under § 5 of
the Act of 1875, that an order of remand was not appealable, and it is also clear that in 1926, as for forty years
before, § 2 of the Act of 1887 required the remand of "any"
removed cause to "be immediately carried into execution".
The enactment of § 3 of the 1926 Act, without more,
did not confer upon the Government any right of appeal
from an order remanding a cause removed under that Act.
We cannot say that under the Act of 1926, standing alone,
the right of appeal from an order of remand stands on any
different footing than it did under any other statute
authorizing removal before the enactment of the 1875 Act,
or that the order of remand is any less final in the case of
the Government than in the case of an individual. Each
loses, by the order, such right as there may be to litigate
the case in the federal courts on removal, but both retain
such rights as they may have to continue the litigation
in the state court or to bring an independent suit in the
federal courts. To whatever extent the Government may
be excluded from the operation of a statute in which it is
not named, cf. United States v. Stevenson, 215 U. S. 190,
197 with United States v. California,297 U. S. 175, 186; it
is clear that the United States can not assert, by virtue of
its sovereignty, a right of appeal which no statute has conferred, or which, if conferred, has been abolished. Not
only was no such right of appeal conferred by the Act of
1926, but, we think, as will presently appear, that the provisions of § 2 of the Act of 1887, denying an appeal from
an order remanding a case removed under the Act of 1926,
denied the right to review by mandamus as well.
Before the enactment of the Act of 1875 it had been
suggested that although orders of remand were not ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

pealable, because non-final, they might be reviewed by
mandamus. Railroad Co. v. Wiswall, 23 Wall. 507; see
also In re PennsylvaniaCo., 137 U. S. 451,453; Employers
Corp. v. Bryant, 299 U. S. 374, 378. After the right of
appeal from such an order was conferred in all removal
cases by § 5 of the Act of 1875, the question arose whether
there could be review by mandamus of an order denying a
motion to remand. This was answered in the negative on
the ground that the right to appeal given by the 1875 Act
was limited to orders of remand. Hence resort could not
be had to mandamus to perform the office of a writ of error
which Congress had withheld in the case of an order denying remand. Ex parte Hoard, 105 U. S. 578; Ex parte
Harding, 219 U. S. 363; Ex parte Roe, 234 U. S. 70. In
all these cases it was pointed out that the mode of review
of an order denying remand is by appeal from the final
judgment in the suit in which the remand is denied.
But it is urged that the mere failure of the 1926 Act
to confer on the Government a right of appeal from an
order of remand should not preclude review by mandamus, since, unlike the case where the district court refuses to remand, an order denying the right to have the
removed cause tried in the district court could not otherwise be reviewed in the federal courts. But this argument
presupposes that the provisions of the 1887 Act, prohibiting appeals from orders of remand, and directing
the immediate execution of such orders, do not apply to
causes removed from the state courts under the Act of
1926, a supposition which disregards the plain purport of
the words of the 1887 statute, and its legislative history.
Section 5 of the Judiciary Act of 1875, which, for the
first time, authorized review of an order of remand by
writ of error or appeal, was, by its terms, made applicable generally to. "any suit" removed from a state court
to a federal circuit (now district) court. It authorized
the circuit court toremand the cause for want of juris-

UNITED STATES v. RICE.
742

Opinion of the Court.

diction, and provided that the order of remand should
be reviewable by appeal. This section was repealed by
§ 6 of the 1887 Act, and § 2 of that Act substituted for the
repealed provision governing appeals, a new provision,
which was in terms likewise extended to orders of remand "whenever any cause shall be removed from any
State court". Section 6, together with this substituted
provision, explicitly withdrew the right of appeal and
writ of error in all cases in which it had been previously
allowed by § 5, that is, in all cases removed from state
courts under any statute authorizing removal. See Employers Corp.v. Bryant, supra, 380-1.

Section 2 of the Act of 1887 thus expressly denied review by appeal or writ of error from orders of remand
which had previously been allowed by § 5 of the Act of
1875 in all cases removed from state courts, but which
before that Act had been deemed not to be appealable
because not final orders. But § 2 also coupled with this
prohibition the direction, made applicable in every case
removed from a state court, that "such remand shall be
immediately carried into execution". Reading and construing these provisions together, this Court has consistently held, and it is no longer open to doubt, that an
order remanding a cause which is subject to the prohibition against appeals of §2 cannot be reviewed by mandamus. In re PennsylvaniaCo., supra;Employers Corp.
v. Bryant, supra.

Congress, by the adoption of these provisions, as thus
construed, established the policy of not permitting interruption of the litigation of the merits of a removed cause
by prolonged litigation of questions of jurisdiction of the
district: court to which the cause is removed. This was
accomplished by denying any form of review of an order
of remand, and, before final'judgment, of an order denying
remand. In :the former case, Congresshas directed that
upon the remand the litigation should proceed in the state

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

court from which the cause was removed. It may be arguable, as a matter of policy, that in giving the Government the right to intervene and remove a cause from a
state court, it should also have been given the right, not
allowed to private litigants, to have orders of remand reviewed in the appellate courts. But the Congressional
policy of avoiding interruption of the litigation of the
merits of removed causes, properly begun in state courts,
is as pertinent to those removed by the United States as
by any other suitor, see United States v. California,supra,
186, and we think it plain that the Act of 1926 did not confer any such right of review, and that the Act of 1887 intended to withhold it in all cases of removal from state
courts.
As we have already indicated, and as the legislative
history shows, these provisions of the Act of 1887 were
intended to be applicable not only to remand orders made
in suits removed under the Act of 1887, but to orders of
remand made in cases removed under any other statutes,
as well. Cole v. Garland, 107 F. 759, dismissed on appeal
183 U. S. 693, approved in Gay v. Ruff, 292 U. S. 25, 29,
n. 5; see also Employers Corp. v. Bryant, supra, 380-1. It
was so held with respect to the Act of 1926 in UnitedStates
v. Fixico, 115 F. 2d 389.
Nothing in the Act of 1926 purports to impair or restrict
the application of § 2 of the 1887 Act, thus construed, to
orders of remand made under 28 U. S. C., § 80, in cases
removed under the 1926 Act. Congress, in enacting the
1926 Act, not only failed to include in it any provision
modifying what had been for forty years the established
practice of denying review of orders remanding causes
removed from state courts, but it must be taken to have
been aware of the universality of that practice, and to have
been content that, as established by the 1887 Act, it should
apply to cases removed under the 1926 Act. Statutory

UNITED STATES v. RICE.
742

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

language and objective, thus appearing with reasonable
clarity, are not to be overcome by resort to a mechanical
rule of construction, whose function is not to create doubts,
but to resolve them when the real issue or statutory purpose is otherwise obscure. United States v. California,
supra, 186.
The certified question will be answered "No", and the
Government's motion that we order up the entire record
may accordingly be denied.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BLACK
and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concur, dissenting.

The Act of April 12, 1926, 44 Stat. 239, has two main
purposes. It provides the machinery for bringing in the
United States where the property interests of a restricted
Indian of the Five Civilized Tribes are being litigated in
either the federal or the state courts. This was done so
that all interested parties might be concluded by one proceeding and titles to these Indian lands stabilized.' H.
Rep. No. 322, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2. In case the proceeding is brought in a state court, the United States is
given "the right to remove" the suit to the federal court by
filing in the state court a petition for removal. The Act
provides that when such petition is filed it shall be "the
duty of the State court to accept such petition and proceed
no further in said suit." The right to remove is unquali1 Prior to the 1926 Act the United States could not be bound by a
proceeding affecting restricted Indian lands. After the matter had
been litigated, the United States could still institute an independent
suit and annul the prior decree entered in the suit to which it was not
a party. Sunderland v. United States, 266 U. S. 226.

754

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

fled. It rests in the sole discretion of the United States,
which is given the choice of the forum. As stated in the
House Report, supra, p. 2:
"Section 3 provides only where the interest of a
restricted Indian of the Five Civilized Tribes is being
litigated in the State courts that service may be had
upon the Government and the Government is given
the right to chose [sic] the forum in which the suit
may be tried and may transfer such case to the United
States district court upon motion in the event that
the Government chooses to do so."
But it is said that this special Act, passed in 1926, is
governed by the general removal Act of March 3, 1887,
24 Stat. 552, Judicial Code § 28, 28 U. S. C. § 71, which disallows appeals from orders remanding causes removed
from state courts. I do not agree.
(1) The 1926 Act contains none of the qualifications
written into the general removal acts.
(2) The 1926 Act is an independent statute dealing
with a highly specialized problem and limited as to parties
and subject matter. The mischief at which the general
removal acts were aimed is not present here. They were
concerned with eliminating litigious interruptions of private litigation by prolonged disputes over the jurisdiction
of the court to which the cause was removed. But the
United States is not in a position of a private litigant.
The United States has a special function to perform in
these Indian cases. It represents the public interest.
Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S. 413, 437-444. It
alone is given the "right to remove". If the cause is remanded, it alone can seek review. It should be remembered that the 1926 Act provides a procedure whereby the
United States can be bound by a suit instituted by another.
It is fair to infer that when the United States was subjected to that risk, Congress intended that it should have
a right, if it so elected, to have the cause heard and de-

UNITED STATES v. RICE.
742

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

termined by its own courts. The "right to chose [sic] the
forum in which the suit may be tried" (H. Rep., supra)
can hardly have any other meaning.
(3) The 1887 Act in its operation was not applicable to
the United States. It provided for removal by defendants. They alone could remove. The right of removal
was therefore not available to the United States. It could
not be a defendant in a state court, since it had not consented to be sued there. That was well settled at the
time. For in 1896 the Court stated, "The United States,
by various acts of Congress, have consented to be sued
in their own courts in certain classes of cases; but they
have never consented to be sued in the courts of a State
in any case." Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255, 270.
It seems clear then that the prohibition against review
of orders of remand contained in the 1887 Act was not
aimed at the United States. I think, therefore, that it
should require an explicit provision in the 1926 Act to
conclude that the United States was. now to be bound by
an Act heretofore inapplicable to it. It has long been held
that if the United States is to be deprived of a right or
a remedy by the general terms of a statute, "the language
must be clear and specific to that effect." United States
v. Stevenson, 215 U. S. 190, 197; United States v. American Bell Tel. Co., 159 U. S. 548, 554; United States v.
Herron,20 Wall. 251, 263; DollarSavings Bank v. United
States, 19 Wall. 227, 239. This seems to me to be a clear
case for the application of that rule.
If Congress had said that orders of remand under the
1926 Act should not be reviewed, mandamus of course
would not lie. But since there is no such prohibition,
mandamus is available to compel the District Court to
perform its duty. Railroad Co. v. Wiswall, 23 Wall. 507;
In re Pennsylvania Co., 137 U. S. 451, 453.

