McALLISTER LINE v. UNITED STATES. 655
Opinion of the Court.
McALLISTER LIGHTERAGE LINE, INC. v. UNITED

STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 616. Argued March 5, 1946.-Decided March 25, 1946.
The conclusion of the Interstate Commerce Commission, upon an application for a certificate as a common carrier by water under the
"grandfather" clause of § 309 (a) of Part III of the Interstate Commerce Act, that the interruption of bona fide operations since
January 1, 1940, was not an interruption over which the applicant
had no control-the applicant's restriction of its activities to exempt
operations in New York harbor in wartime not being shown to
have been other than voluntary-was supported by the findings and
the evidence, and justified the Commission's denial of the application. P. 659.
Affirmed.

Direct appeal from a decree of a District Court of three
judges dismissing a suit to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission which denied appellant's
application for a certificate as a common carrier by water
under the "grandfather" clause of § 309 (a) of Part III
of the Interstate Commerce Act. Affirmed, p. 661.
Roman Beck argued the cause for appellant. With him
on the brief was MauriceA. Krisel.
Walter J. Cummings, Jr. argued the cause for appellees.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath,
Assistant Attorney General Berge, Edward Dumbauld,
Daniel W. Knowlton and Edward M. Reidy.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellant applied to the Interstate Commerce
Commission for a certificate as a common carrier by water
under the "grandfather" clause of § 309 (a) of Part III

656

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

of the Interstate Commerce Act.' The authority sought
was to continue a transportation service by tug and barge
which appellant had performed at one time over routes
along the Atlantic seaboard and certain inland waterways. The application was denied by the Commission.
A specially-constituted District Court upheld the Commission's order, dismissing appellant's suit to set the order
aside. The case comes to us by direct appeal from the
District Court.
Under § 309 (a) appellant was entitled to a certificate
without proof of public convenience or necessity if it
could demonstrate that it or its predecessor in interest
"'was in bona fide operation as a common carrier by water
on January 1, 1940, over the route or routes or between
the ports with respect to which application is made and
has so operated since that time (or, if engaged in furnishing seasonal service only, was in bona fide operation during the seasonal period, prior to or including such date,
for operations of the character in question) except, in
either event, as to interruptions of service over which
the applicant or. its predecessor in interest had no control . . ."
The undisputed evidence submitted to the Commission
revealed that appellant or its predecessors have been engaged in marine transportation since 1864 and that the
business has been continuously owned by its founder or
his descendants through four generations. Past activities
have been extensive and varied and have included the
freight services forming the subject matter of the application in issue.
Appellant conceded before the Commission, however,
that from 1933 through 1939 its freight operations virtually ceased 2 and that its activities were confined pri' 49 U. S. C. § 909 (a).
2In
1937 machinery, airplanes, guns and parts were carried between
New York harbor, Hudson River and Long Island Sound points but

this service has not been repeated.

McALLISTER LINE v. UNITED STATES.
655

657

Opinion of the Court.

marily to operations in the New York harbor area which
were of a type exempt. from regulation under the Interstate Commerce Act.' Appellant claimed that it had bent
every effort during these years to obtain freight customers
and that the paucity of its operations resulted solely from
the severe economic depression which prevailed during
that period. It was argued that this interruption in
freight service prior to January 1, 1940, was due to factors beyond appellant's control within the meaning of
the proviso of § 309 (a), preventing a forfeiture of its
"grandfather" rights.
Since January 1, 1940, appellant's fleet has been engaged almost exclusively within the New York harbor in
the performance of lighterage and other work essential to
the war effort. So great were its commitments for service within the harbor that it has been unable to accept
other traffic when offered. Appellant's claim was that
this diversion of its vessels to war work after January 1,
1940, was also an interruption in regular service beyond its control, further preventing a forfeiture of
"grandfather" rights under § 309 (a).
Appellant thus admitted before the Commission that
it was not entitled to a certificate under the "grandfather"
clause unless the business depression and the war service
constituted complete and involuntary interruptions in its
regular freight service, thereby bringing the proviso of
§ 309 (a) into operation. After reviewing the evidence,
the Commission made the following conclusions: "The
evidence of record establishes the fact that applicant for
a period of over 10 years has performed only an inconsequential amount of transportation of a kind that is now
subject to the act, and that it is not holding itself out at
8Under § 303 (g) of the Act, transportation in interstate commerce
by water solely within the limits of a single harbor is exempt from
regulations under the Act, unless the Commission finds that the
national transportation policy requires regulation.

658

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

the present time to perform such transportation. Obviously, the remote operations heretofore described do not
establish bona fide operations on January 1, 1940, and
since. Furthermore, applicant has considerable facilities
available at the present time, the use of which it voluntarily has confined to exempt transportation within the
limits of New York Harbor. We affirm the conclusion of
the prior report that applicant has not established that it
is entitled to 'grandfather' rights."
The District Court held that the Commission failed to
make sufficiently definite findings that the interruption in
service on or prior to January 1, 1940, either was or was
not beyond the control of appellant and its predecessors.
The Commission merely found the admitted fact that appellant did not perform a sufficient amount of bona fide
operations on or prior to the crucial date. The District
Court felt that if that finding were the sole basis of the
Commission's action, there would be merit to appellant's
contention that the case should be remanded to the Commission for a clarification of its findings. But this assumes
that the proviso of § 309 (a) regarding interruption of
service over which the applicant had no control relates to
the service "on January 1, 1940," as well as to the service
subsequent to that date. The Government contends, however, that the proviso refers only to the latter service and
that if there is no proof of service on the "grandfather"
date the applicant is not entitled to a certificate upon proof
that such lack of service was due to circumstances beyond
the applicant's control. Under this view the Commission's
failure to make adequate findings as to interruption of
service prior to January 1, 1940, becomes immaterial.
We deem it unnecessary at this time, however, to settle
this problem of statutory construction, it being clear in
any event that the proviso is applicable to interruptions
after January 1, 1940. Failure to prove that such an interruption was beyond the applicant's control leads to a

McALLISTER LINE v. UNITED STATES.
655

659

Opinion of the Court.

forfeiture of "grandfather" rights. As to that issue we
agree with the District Court that the Commission made
adequate findings that appellant failed to show continuity
of service subsequent to January 1, 1940, and that there
was no recognizable excuse for the lack of service. The
Commission expressly found that appellant "is not holding itself out at the present time to perform such transportation" and that it "has considerable facilities available
at the present time, the use of which it voluntarily has
confined to exempt transportation within the limits of
New York Harbor." This clearly means that, in the Commission's view, the war emergency did not compel appellant to restrict its activities to exempt operations in the
harbor area, thereby making the proviso of § 309 (a)
inapplicable. That conclusion, we believe, is amply
supported by the evidence and contravenes no statutory
rule.
There was no evidence before the Commission that
appellant's war work was other than voluntary in character. Appellant conceded the lack of any governmental
order restricting its activities solely to the New York harbor area or prohibiting it from operating over the routes
it now seeks to ply.4 The major claim, without supporting
4Cf. American-Hawaiian Steamship Company Common Carrier
Application, 250 I. C. C. 219, 222; Bull Steamship Line Common
CarrierApplication, 250 I. C. C. 317, 319; Isthmian Steamship Company Common Carrier Application, 250 I. C. C. 359, 362; Southern
Pacific Company Common CarrierApplication, 250 I. C. C. 457, 462;
Coast TransportationCo., Inc., Common and Contract Carrier Application, 250 I. C. C. 469, 472; Weyerhaeuser Steamship Co. Common
Carrier Application, 250 I. C. C. 477, 479; American Range Lines,
Inc., Contract CarrierApplication, 250 1. C. C. 510, 011; Great Lakes
Transit Corporation Applications, 260 I. C. C. 9, 10; Providence
Steamboat Company Contract Carrier Application, 260 I. C. C. 23,
24; St. Johns River Line Co. Common Carrier Application, 260
I. C. C. 74, 77; Nicholson Transit Co. Contract CarrierApplication,
260 I. C. C. 232, 233.

660

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

evidence, was that the traffic in the New York harbor
was so great during the war as to necessitate intensive
utilization of every available tug, barge, lighter and scow
in the movement of war cargoes. It was also alleged,
without proof, that the Office of Defense Transportation
beyond "the slightest doubt" would have frustrated any
attempt by appellant to utilize a substantial portion of
its fleet in freight service along the Atlantic coast and, if
necessary, would have requested the War Shipping Administration to requisition appellant's vessels.5 The
speculative and insubstantial nature of these unsupported
claims is obvious. They rest upon the questionable assumption that essential war work could be done only in
the New York harbor and that there was no essential
transportation service along the Atlantic coast or inland
waterways in which appellant could have participated.
They require one to guess what action governmental agencies would have taken under hypothetical situations. We
do not imply, of course, that such claims are untrue or
that, if proved, they might not adequately support appellant's position. But there is nothing in this record to
substantiate the claims. Certainly an administrative order should be grounded upon something more definite and
substantial than the surmises offered by appellant.
Appellant's activities had been confined to the New
York harbor area since 1933, long before the outbreak of
the war. In the absence of any attempt to expand the
activities and in the absence of proof of any governmental
restriction, it was reasonable to find that appellant voluntarily chose to continue its activities on a limited scale.
Such a choice may well have been dictated by considerations of profit and convenience. That these limited ac5Appellant pointed out that the Government exerted control over
all domestic shipping during the war. The Office of Defense Transportation, for example, confined barge movements along the Atlantic
coast largely to the movement of coal.

ELGIN, J. & E. R. CO. v. BURLEY.

661

Syllabus.

655

tivities coincided with wartime needs does not necessarily
prove that they were other than voluntary in nature.
Much activity in recent years furthered the war effort
although it was profitable and although it was done without compulsion by public authority.
The Commission was therefore justified in concluding
that appellant's failure to engage in bona fide operations
since January 1, 1940, was due to circumstances other than
those over which appellant had no control. Appellant
accordingly forfeited whatever "grandfather" rights it
might have had.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR.
JUSTICE RUTLEDGE dissent.
MR.JUSTICE JACKSON took no part

in the consideration

or decision of this case.

ELGIN, JOLIET & EASTERN RAILWAY CO. v.
BURLEY

ET AL.

ON REHEARING.
No. 160, October Term, 1944. Reargued December 3, 4, 1945.Decided March 25, 1946.
1. On rehearing, the Court adheres to its previous decision in this
case. Elgin, J. & E. R. Co. v. Burley, 325 U. S. 711. P. 662.
2. As in its previous opinion, the Court expressly refrains from
making any definitive statement as to what might be sufficient evidence of a collective agent's authority either to settle finally an
aggrieved individual employee's claims or to represent him exclusively before the Adjustment Board. P. 663.
3. When an award of the Adjustment Board involving an employee's
individual grievance is challenged in the courts, one who would
upset it carries the burden of showing that it was wrong. P. 664.
4. The previous decision is not to be interpreted as meaning that an
employee may stand by with knowledge or notice of what is going
on with reference to his claim, either between the carrier and the
union on the property, or before the Board on their submission,

