UNITED STATES v. CARBONE.

633

Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. CARBONE

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 474. Argued February 26, 27, 1946.-Decided March 25, 1946.
1. The Kickback Act of June 13, 1934 provides that "whoever"
shall induce any person employed on any federally financed work
"to give up any part of the compensation to which he is entitled
under his contract of employment, by force, intimidation, threat
of procuring dismissal from such employment, or by any other
manner whatsoever," shall be subject to the penalty therein prescribed. Appellees, union officials, were indicted for conspiring to
violate the Act. The indictment charged inter alia that, by agredment between appellees and contractors engaged in construction
of federal buildings, the contractors agreed to employ as laborers
only such persons as were approved by appellees and to discharge
any such employees at appellees' request. Appellees approved for
employment, besides union members, only such persons as paid
appellees the sum of $5, which was to be regarded as an installment
upon the union initiation fee. Payment to appellees of $5 per
week thereafter was required until the full initiation fee had been
paid, "or the person would not be permitted to continue work upon
the said construction." Appellees, contrary to union rules, did not
account to the union for moneys received from laborers who quit
the employment before paying the initiation fee in full. Held that
the indictment did not charge an offense punishable under the
Kickback Act. P. 637.
2. The Kickback Act must be construed in the light of the evils which
it was designed to remedy. P. 637.
3. The Kickback Act was not intended to affect legitimate union
activity; nor to punish unlawful acts, though committed by union
officials in violation of union rules, which are not in'the nature of
kickbacks. P. 639.
4. On appeal under the Criminal Appeals Act, this Court is bound
by the District Court's interpretation of the indictment as dealing
with ordinary union initiation fees rather than. with kickbacks.
P.641.
61. F. Supp. 882, affirmed.

Appeal under the Criminal Appeals Act from a judgment dismissing an indictment of the respondents for conspiring to violate the Kickback Act. Afjirmed, p.642.

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Frederick Bernays Wiener argued the cause for the
United States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath,Robert S. Erdahl and Irving S. Shapiro.
Hammond E. Chaffetz argued the cause for Carbone et
al., appellees, and Michael Carchia argued the cause for
DiNunno, appellee. With them on the brief was Walter
F. Levis.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case comes to us under the Criminal Appeals Act'
directly from the United States District Court for the
District of Massachusetts. It raises an important question as to the meaning and scope of § 1 of the Act of June
13, 1934,2 commonly known as the Kickback Act, making
it unlawful to prevent anyone employed in construction
or repair work of a public nature or financed in whole
or in part by the United States from receiving the full
compensation to which he is entitled.
Three of the appellees are officers of Local 39 of the
International Hod Carriers' Building and Common Laborers' Union of America; the fourth appellee is president of
the Eastern Massachusetts Laborers District Council and
is also employed by Local 39. They were indicted for conspiring to violate § 1 of the Kickback Act. It was charged
'Act of March 2, 1907, 34 Stat. 1246, as amended by the Act of
May 9, 1942, 56 Stat. 271; 18 U. S. C. § 682.
2
Section 1 of the Act provides: "Whoever shall induce any person
employed in the construction, prosecution, or completion of any pub-

lic building, public work, or building or work financed in whole or in
part by loans or grants from the United States, or in the repair thereof
to give up any part of the compensation to which he is entitled under
his contract of employment, by force, intimidation, threat of procuring

dismissal from such employment, or by any other manner whatsoever,
shall be &inednot more than $5,000, or imprisoned not more than
five years, or both." 48 Stat. 948; 40 U. S. C. § 276b.

UNITED STATES v. CARBONE.
633

Opinion of the Court.

that during the period of the alleged conspiracy, October
1, 1940, to March 30, 1941, two contractors were engaged
in the construction of various public buildings for the
United States at Fort Devens, Massachusetts. The appellees, by virtue of their positions with Local 39, made
an agreement with the contractors whereby the latter
undertook to employ as laborers only such persons as were
approved by appellees and to discharge any such employees at appellees' request. The contractors also agreed
to employ forty persons named by the appellees, known
as stewards, to perform such duties as the appellees might
direct, and to provide an office for the appellees on the site
of the construction. About 7,500 laborers were employed
during the course of the construction.
Pursuant to this agreement, the appellees approved to
the contractors for employment as laborers members of
Local 39 or of other locals of the International Union and
only such other persons as paid the appellees the sum of
$5.00. The appellees represented to the latter persons
that this payment would be regarded as an installment
upon the initiation fee of Local 39 and the International
Union and that each such employee would be required to
pay the appellees $5.00 per week until the total initiation
fee was paid "or the person would not be permitted to
continue work upon the said construction." Receipts
were given for each weekly payment. The initiation fee
was originally $50.00, but it was later reduced to $40.00
and then to $20.00.
It was further charged that the appellees directed the
stewards each week to go among the laborers and demand
of each nonmember of the union either that he display a
receipt showing that he had paid the $5.00 for the current
week or that he immediately pay that sum to the stewards
or to the appellees "under threat of procuring his dismissal
from his employment" if he did not do so. The appellees
allegedly were able to carry out this threat by reason of

636

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

their agreement with the contractors, the appellees "well
knowing, and intending, that the laborers would pay the
said five dollars out of the compensation to which they
were entitled under their contracts of employment with
the said contractors."
The indictment also stated that the appellees kept no
records of those who made payments to them. But if a
laborer should present receipts showing payment of the
initiation fee in full, his name was recorded and sent to
the headquarters of the International Union with the sum
of $5.35, representing the share of the fee to which the
International was entitled under its rules. And the appellees "made no report to the Local 39, or to anyone, of
the amount they had received from laborers paying less
than the full initiation fee as aforesaid, or the total sums
they had collected in this way, nor did they cause any of
the sums collected in this way and received by them to be
recorded in the Financial Secretary's book as the rules of
the said International Union require: The defendants
[appellees] well knowing that the majority of those who
paid the initial five dollars would not and did not complete
payment of the full initiation fee."
The indictment concluded by charging that the appellees acted in concert in these matters, that they induced
the laborers to give up part of the compensation to which
they were entitled under their contracts, that they represented that they were acting for Local 39 and the International, and that they concealed from these organizations
the sums they thus collected from laborers who did not
pay the initiation fee in full.
The appellees moved to dismiss the indictment, alleging as one ground that it did not state an offense cognizable in law. Relying upon this Court's decision in
UnitedStates v. Laudani,320 U. S. 543, the District Court
granted the motions. 61 F. Supp. 882. It plainly was of
the view that the facts as alleged in the indictment fell

UNITED STATES v. CARBONE.
633

631

Opinion of the Court.

outside the scope of the Kickback Act. It stated that it
did not believe that "either the history or the purpose of
the Kickback legislation warrants an extension of its
scope to include these defendants. .

.

. The closed shop

is within the legitimate objectives of trade unionism. Implementation of this objective by the means used by these
defendants should not expose them to the risk of criminal
prosecution." From this judgment the United States
appeals.
We agree with the District Court. Section 1 of the
Kickback Act punishes "whoever" induces another person employed on a federally financed project "to give up
any part of the compensation to which he is entitled under
his contract of employment, by force, intimidation, threat
of procuring dismissal from such employment, or by any
other manner whatsoever . . ."

The United States con-

tends that this provision applies to the instant situation
inasmuch as the appellees induced certain workers on a
federal project to give up part of the compensation to

which they were entitled by threatening to procure dismissal from their employment. Emphasis is placed upon
the allegation in the indictment that the appellees had
power to enforce this threat by reason of the closed-shop
agreement with the contractors and upon the further allegation that the appellees neglected to report or to turn
over to Local 39 of the International Union all of the
money collected, as required by the rules of those organizations.
But as is apparent from our discussion in the Laudani
case, not every person or act falling within the literal
sweep of the language of the Kickback Act necessarily
comes within its intent and purpose. That language must
be read and applied in light of the evils which gave rise
to the statute and the aims which the proponents sought
to achieve. When that is done the inapplicability of the
Act to the facts set forth in the indictment becomes
clear.

638

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

The statute grew out of an investigation of so-called
rackets by a subcommittee of the Senate Committee on
Commerce pursuant to S. Res. 74, 73d Cong., 2d Sess.
This investigation "revealed that large sums of money
have been extracted from the pockets of American labor,
to enrich contractors, subcontractors, and their officials."
S. Rep. No. 803, 73d Cong., 2d Sess. It was found that
laborers, especially those pursuing the building trades,
often were paid the prevailing rate of wages but were compelled by their employers to give back or kick back a percentage of the pay which they had lawfully earned and
received. Discharge was threatened unless they complied
with the demands for kickbacks. The employers were
thereby enabled to evade the scale of wages imposed by
the Government on its construction projects, to the detriment of the workers. Such was the evil at which the Act
was directed. As stated by the House committee in reporting the bill that became the law, "This bill is aimed at
the suppression of the so-called 'kick-back racket' by which
a contractor on a Government project pays his laborers
wages at the rate the Government requires him to pay
them, but thereafter forces them to give back to him a
part of the wages they have received." H. Rep. No. 1750,
73d Cong., 2d Sess.3

1Senator Copeland, in charge of the bill in the Senate, explained its
purposes as follows: "I should be unwilling to have the bill passed
without the Senate understanding its purpose. Much has been said
on the floor recently about what is known as the 'kick-back' where
employers or sub-employers have indecently and immorally taken
from employees a part of the wage which it was supposed they were
being paid. The testimony before our committee investigating crime
is so startling as to indicate that as much as 25 percent of the money
supposed to be paid out of Federal funds for employment is actually
repaid to employers in this improper manner. The purpose of the
bill is to attempt to put some check upon that practice." 78 Cong.
Rec. 7401. Senator Copeland also quoted from a letter from Mr.
William Green, President of the American Federation of Labor, stating, "It has been a common practice for contractors constructing Fed-

UNITED STATES v. CARBONE.
633

Opinion of the Court.

It is thus apparent that the purpose of the Act is to
insure that workers on federal projects shall receive the
full wages to which they are entitled from their employers, many of whom had been found to be depriving the
workers of their rights in this respect. And the sanctions
of the Act are directed toward that problem. There is
nothing in the legislative history to support the thesis
that the statute was intended to affect legitimate union
activities. Nor was it intended to be used to punish unlawful acts, including those committed by union officials
in violation of union rules, that are not in the nature of
kickbacks.' We need not here attempt to delineate the
eral buildings to pay the employees the prevailing rate as determined
by the Secretary of Labor, and then have them return a certain
amount to the contractor. That is a most vicious practice." Id.
Representative Sumners, the chairman of the House committee in
charge of the bill, referred to the bill as follows: "May I suggest to
gentlemen on both sides of the House that we are going to attempt to
call up on the first opportunity S.3041, which is known as the 'kickback' bill, preventing contractors from compelling workmen to return
a part of their salaries." 78 Cong. Rec. 10521.
' The United States points to certain isolated references in the
legislative hearings concerning dishonest union practices. Hearings,
Subcommittee of Senate Committee on Commerce, S. Res. 74, 73d
Cong., 2d Sess., Vol. 1, pp. 35, 82, 808, 814, 826. But these relate to
general "racketeering" in labor unions or to connivance between union
officials and contractors on the matter of kickbacks, neither of which
is involved in this case. Thus Adolph Dzik, attorney for the antiracketeering committee of the American Federation of Labor building
trade unions in New York, testified as follows (Id., pp. 808, 814):
Mr. Daru [counsel for Senate Subcommittee]. Do you think
it is usually a dishonest contractor or an employee, superintendent, or otherwise, who is sandwiching in between there and getting the "kickback"?
Mr. Dzik. I think it is the contractor and some of the officials
of the unions.
The Chairman. Is it your opinion that there is connivance between the contractor or his representative and certain officials?
Mr. Dzik. I think so.
The Chairman. I take it from what you say that you are placing responsibiIty largely upon the contractors, or do you also

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

degree, if any, to which the Act applies to the activities
of trade unions and their officers. Nor need we question
the fact that such officers on occasion may make unwarranted use of their powers, thereby reflecting adversely
upon the reputation of unionism. It is enough to note
that this Act was designed solely to prevent workers from
wrongfully being deprived of their full wages and that
evils relating to the internal management of unions were
matters with which Congress did not concern itself in
enacting the Kickback Act. Accordingly the broad language of the statute must be interpreted and applied with
that background in mind.
From a superficial standpoint, the facts in the indictment would indicate that the appellees did induce the
laborers to give up part of their lawful wages by threatening to procure their dismissal. But the facts as charged
must be considered in light of the closed-shop agreement
between the appellees and the contractors. That agreement, so far as appears, was a lawful one, giving the appellees the power as union representatives to insist that
all laborers be or become members of Local 39 and the
International Union. The initiation fee which was assessed is a normal and usual assessment by a union on a
person seeking a union job or membership in the union.
There is no claim in this instance that the fee was unauthorized, excessive or otherwise improper; in fact, it is
admitted that when the full amount of the initiation fee
was paid the laborer became enrolled as a member of both
include in your criticism, collusion between the contractors and
the officers of various unions?
Mr. Dzik. I will say that primarily the contractors themselves
are responsible, and that they corrupt the officials of the unions
and in that manner are able to do it without being exposed. I
will tell you why I say that, Senator. I say that if the officials
and labor unions were really interested in this racket, they would
immediately pass a resolution suspending the operation of the
rule of the union punishing the laborers that exposed it.
See 46 Col. L. Rev. 326.

UNITED STATES v. CARBONE.
633

Opinion of the Court.

Local 39 and the International Union. The indictment
is directed only to those payments made by laborers who
discontinued working before they paid the last installment.
As to such installments, there is no allegation that the
failure to return them was unauthorized by union rules or
was in any other way unlawful. Moreover, the fact that
the assessments were accompanied by a threat and a power
to procure dismissal for failure to pay is but an ordinary
incident of the apparently legal closed-shop agreement.
The sum of these facts, therefore, fails to reveal any of the
evils which gave rise to the Kickback Act. All that appears are the normal methods used to implement the
legitimate objective of a closed shop. The District Court
so viewed the facts. It interpreted the indictment as
dealing only with ordinary union initiation fees rather
than with kickbacks, as that word is used in the context
of this statute. We are bound by that interpretation on
this appeal. United States v. Borden Co., 308 U. S. 188.
The crucial fact relied upon by the United States, however, is the alleged failure of the appellees to report or to
account to the unions as to those payments made by laborers who quit before making the last installment. But
if that fact be true it cannot operate retroactively to make
the assessments illegal or to give them the character of
kickbacks. It must be assumed from the indictment as
construed below that the assessments were lawful when
made and thai the appellees had the right to make them
on behalf of the unions. If the appellees thereafter coil
verted the money to their own use in violation of union
rules, the evil falls outside the scope of the Kickback Act.
Embrezzlement and failure to obey union rules are matters
vastly different from an unlawful demand upon an employee-to return part of the wages he has earned. Congress
has given, no indication in this Act that it desired to deal
with such matters.
The interpretative process would be abused and the
legislative will subverted were we to, deal with the broad

642

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

language of this statute in disregard of the narrow problem of kickbacks which Congress sought to remedy. See
Holy Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457;
Chatwin v. United States, 326 U. S. 455. The judgment
of the District Court must therefore be

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
dissenting, with whom MR.
and MR. JUSTICE BURTON concur.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER
CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

Until 1907 no review could be had from a judgment of
a district--or the predecessor, circuit-court setting aside
an indictment. By the Criminal Appeals Act of that year,
34 Stat. 1246, 18 U. S. C. § 682, this Court was given jurisdiction to review such a judgment, but only if the decision
of the district court was based exclusively upon the invalidity or construction of the statute which gave rise to
the indictment. If the district court construed an indictment as well as a statute, this Court could not entertain
the appeal. United States v. Hastings, 296 U. S. 188.
Accordingly, when the dismissal of an indictment involved
an erroneous ruling in whole or in part upon the sufficiency
of the indictment as a matter of pleading, the United
States was without remedy. The upshot was that justice
might be thwarted through a misconception by a district
judge of the requirements of criminal pleading because
time might bar a new indictment.
It was the purpose of the Act of May 9, 1942, 56 Stat.
271, 18 U. S. C., Supp. IV, § 682, to meet this situation.
This Act authorized the Government to appeal to a circuit court of appeals from the decision of a district court
in those cases where direct appeals to this Court do not
lie. It also required this Court to remand to a circuit
court of appeals a case wrongly brought here. AL-

UNITED STATES v. CARBONE.
633

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

cordingly, when the terms of the dismissal of an indictment by a district court raise doubts as to the ground on
which the dismissal was made, or is a blend of a finding
of bad pleading and of a construction of the statute on
which the indictment was based, this Court since the
1942 Act, is under duty not to affirm the district court but
to remand the cause to the circuit court of appeals for
that court's disposal of both issues-interpretation of the
indictment and construction of the statute.
The Court applied this procedure in United States v.
Swift & Co., 318 U. S. 442, although, or perhaps because,
there was a division here as to the meaning of the District
Court's action. This course, in my judgment, should now
be followed. The scope of the opinion below is certainly
not unequivocal. Did the District Court mean that the
indictment charged that the defendants acted exclusively
as authorized agents of the union in collecting fees, but
converted those fees to their own purposes? That may
well be embezzlement under the Massachusetts law; but
no one would contend that it comes within the terms of the
"kick-back" statute. Or, did the District Court read
the indictment to mean that that which the defendants did
was outside the scope of their authority as union officials
and was not done on behalf of the union, and hold that the
"kick-back" statute does not apply to persons because
they are officers of a union? Or, did the District Court
read the indictment to mean that the union officials acted
on their own and not for union purposes, but hold that
such conduct is not covered by the "kick-back" statute
because it applies exclusively to persons who work for the
employer and who line their pockets by virtue of their
power to assure or withhold employment? Instead of
starting with an unequivocal construction of the indictment by the District Court, this Court is itself in effect
construing the indictment when Congress has withheld
from this Court the right to construe indictments.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

In view of such doubts concerning the real meaning of
what the District Court did, fair administration of the
criminal law would seem to preclude affirmance of the
judgment below on the assumption that the District Court
read the indictment so as to bring into application a construction of the "kick-back" statute for which the Government does not contend. I would dismiss the appeal
and remand the District Court's judgment to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the First Circuit for that court to
review the judgment in view of the power of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, not possessed by us, to construe the
indictment as a preliminary to construing the statute.
But under the compulsion of the Court's decision the
case is before us on the merits. See Helvering v. Davis,
301 U. S. 619, 640. The statute seems to be clear: "Whoever shall induce any person employed in the construction, . . . of any . . . work financed in whole or in
part by loans or grants from the United States, . . . to
give up any part of the compensation to which he is
entitled under his contract of employment, by force, intimidation, threat of procuring dismissal from such employment, or by any other manner whatsoever, shall be
fined . . . or imprisoned . . . or both." 48 Stat. 948,
40 U. S. C. § 276b. No legislative history is invoked to
undo the scope of this language and to immunize what
Congress has plainly condemned. What Congress has
enacted should be enforced. The statutory phrase is "by
any other manner whatsoever." The indictment does not
describe a check-off or collection of union dues or initiation fees in a labor union. That, as the Government
agrees, is not prohibited. The statute seeks to protect
forays against wages derived from federal funds and does
not touch diminution of such wages in connection with
union membership. The statute is for the protection of
the laboring man and the taxpayer. It should be so interpreted and enforced. It should not be interpreted so

LAVENDER v..
KURN.
633

645

Statement of the Case.

as to protect those described in the indictments as collecting funds by coercion, through their control over jobs, for
their own personal advantage at the expense of the wage
earner, the labor union, and the taxpayer.
LAVENDER, ADMINISTRATOR, v. KURN
TRUSTEES, ET AL.

ET AL.,

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 550.

Argued March 6, 7, 1946.-Deciaed March 25, 1946.

1. In this action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the
evidence of the defendants' negligence (detailed in the opinion)
was sufficient to justify submission of the case to the jury; and
the judgment of the appellate court setting aside the verdict for
the plaintiff can not be sustained. P. 652.
2. There being a reasonable basis in the record for an inference by
the jury that the injury resulted from the defendants' negligence,
it is not within the province of the appellate court to weigh the conflicting evidence, judge the credibility of witnesses, and arrive at a
conclusion opposite from that reached by the jury. P. 652.
3. In suits under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the appellate
court's function is exhausted when the evidentiary basis for the
jury's verdict becomes apparent, it being immaterial that the
court might draw a contrary inference or consider another conclusion more reasonable. P. 653.
4. Only when there is a complete absence of probative facts to support the conclusion reached by the jury does reversible error appear.
P. 653.
5. The jury could reasonably have inferred from the evidence in
this case that the place at which the employee of the carrier was
.working, though technically a public street, was unsafe and that
this circumstance contributed in part to the employee's death.
P. 653.
6. In actions under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, rulings on
the admissibility of evidence must normally be left to the sound discretion of the trial judge. P. 654.
354 Mo. 196, 189 S. W. 2d 253, reversed.

In a suit brought in a state court under the Federal Employers' Liability Act by petitioner against the respond-

