OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Counsel for Parties.

BELL

ET AL.

v. HOOD

327 U. S.
ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 344. Argued January 29, 1946.-Decided April 1, 1946.
1. Where the complaint seeks recovery squarely on the ground of

violation of plaintiffs' rights under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments, a federal district court has jurisdiction of a suit against
agents of the Federal Government to recover damages in excess
of $3,000 alleged to have been suffered by the plaintiffs as a result of such violations-even though neither the Constitution nor
the Congress has provided for the recovery of money damages for
such violations and the complaint is so framed as possibly to state
a common law action in tort or trespass. Pp. 680-685.
2. Where a complaint in a federal court is so drawn as to seek recovery directly under the Constitution or laws of the United States,

the court must entertain the suit, except: (a) where the alleged
claim appears to be immaterial and made solely for the purpose
of obtaining jurisdiction, or (b) where it is wholly insubstantial
and frivolous. P. 682.
3. Whether the complaint states a cause of action on which relief
could be granted is a question of law which must be decided after,
and not before, the court assumes jurisdiction. P. 682.
4. The issue whether federal courts can grant money recovery for
damages alleged to have been suffered as a result of federal agents
violating the Fourth and Fifth Amendments has sufficient merit
to warrant exercise of federal jurisdiction for purposes of adjudicating it. P. 684.
150 F. 2d 96, reversed.

Petitioners brought suit in a federal district court
against.agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to
recover damages in excess of $3,000 alleged to have been
sustained as a result of violations of their rights under
the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. The District Court
dismissed the suit for want of federal jurisdiction. The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 150 F. 2d 96. This
Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 706. Reversed, p. 685.
A. L. Wirin and Russell E. Parsons argued the cause
and filed a brief for petitioners.

BELL v. HOOD.
678

679

Opinion of the Court.

Frederick Bernays Wiener argued the cause for respondents. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, David L.
Kreeger and Abraham J. Harris.
MR.

JUSTICE

BLACK

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners brought this suit in a federal district court
to recover damages in excess of $3,000 from the respondents who are agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
The complaint alleges that the court's jurisdiction is
founded upon federal questions arising under the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments. It is alleged that the damages
were suffered as a result of the respondents imprisoning the
petitioners in violation of their constitutional right to be
free from deprivation of their liberty without due process
of law, and subjecting their premises to search and their
possessions to seizure, in violation of their constitutional
right to be free from unreasonable searches and seizures.'
' The complaint stated in part:

"That on or about the 17th day of December, 1942, defendant R. B.
Hood and each of the other defendants, unlawfully conspired with
each other to act beyond their authority as said Federal Bureau of
Investigation agents and police officer respectively, and agreed that
they would abridge the Constitutional rights of the plaintiffs as guaranteed by the Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of
the United States to be free from the deprivation of liberty and property without due process of law, and to be free from unreasonable
searches and seizures, and agreed unlawfully to simultaneously, in the
early morning of December 18th, 1942, search the homes of the individual plaintiffs herein without any warrants of search or seizure, and
unlawfully to seize the papers, documents and effects of said plaintiffs
and of 'Mankind United,' and falsely to imprison the individual
plaintiffs by unlawfully arresting some of the individual plaintiffs
without a warrant of arrest and unreasonably to delay the taking of
all of the individual plaintiffs before a committing officer, in order to
effectuate the unlawful searches and seizures aforesaid.
"That thereafter, and on the 18th day of December, 1942, . . . the
defendants and each of them, in order to carry out the terms and

680

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

Respondents moved to dismiss the complaint for failure
to state a cause of action for which relief could be granted
and for summary judgment on the grounds that the federal
agents acted within the scope of their authority as officers
of the United States and that the searches and seizures
were incidental to lawful arrests and were therefore valid.
Respondents filed affidavits in support of their motions
and petitioners filed counter-affidavits. After hearing the
motions the district judge did not pass on them but, on
his own motion, dismissed the suit for want of federal
jurisdiction on the ground that this action was not one
that ". . . arises under the Constitution or laws of the
United States . . ." as required by 28 U. S. C. § 41 (1).

The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed on the same ground.
150 F. 2d 96. At the same time it denied a motion made
by petitioners asking it to direct the District Court to give
petitioners leave to amend their complaint in order to
make it still more clearly appear that the action was directly grounded on violations of rights alleged to stem from
the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. We granted certiorari
because of the importance of the jurisdictional issue
involved.
Respondents make the following argument in support
of the District Court's dismissal of the complaint for want
of federal jurisdiction. First, they urge that the complaint
states a cause of action for the common law tort of trespass made actionable by state law and that Ft therefore
does not raise questions arising "under the Constitution
conditions of the illegal conspiracy aforesaid, and solely for the purpose of carrying out said terms and conditions, did arrest and imprison

the individual plaintiffs herein, and did search the homes of said
plaintiffs, and seize and carry away books, papers and effects of said

individual plaintiffs and of said 'Mankind United."'
by reason of the deprivation of . . . [their] Constitutional
rights ... [plaintiffs had] suffered damages."

BELL v. HOOD.
678

Opinion of the Court.

or laws of the United States." Second, to support this
contention, respondents maintain that petitioners could
not recover under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, since the Constitution does not expressly provide
for recovery in money damages for violations of the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments and Congress has not enacted a
statute that does so provide. A mere reading of the complaint refutes the first contention and, as will be seen, the
second one is not decisive on the question of jurisdiction
of the federal court.
Whether or not the complaint as drafted states a common law action in trespass made actionable by state law,
it is clear from the way it was drawn that petitioners seek
recovery squarely on the ground that respondents violated
the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. It charges that the
respondents conspired to do acts prohibited by these
amendments and alleges that respondents' conduct pursuant to the conspiracy resulted in damages in excess of
$3,000. It cannot be doubted therefore that it was the
pleaders' purpose to make violation of these constitutional
provisions the basis of this suit. Before deciding that
there is no jurisdiction, the District Court must look to
the way the complaint is drawn to see if it is drawn so as
to claim a right to recover under the Constitution and laws
of the United States. For to that extent "the party who
brings a suit is master to decide what law he will rely
upon and . . . does determine whether he will bring a
'suit arising under' the . . . [Constitution or laws] of
the United States by his declaration or bill." The Fairv.
Kohler Die Co., 228 U. S.22, 25. Though the mere failure
to set out the federal or constitutional claims as specifically
as petitioners have done would not always be conclusive
against the party bringing the suit, where the complaint,
as here, is so drawn as to seek recovery directly under the
Constitution or laws of the United States, the federal
court, but for two possible exceptions later noted, must

682

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

entertain the suit. Thus allegations far less specific than
the ones in the complaint before us have been held adequate to show that the matter in controversy arose under
the Constitution of the United States. Wiley v. Sinkler,
179 U. S. 58, 64-65; Swafford v. Templeton, 185 U. S.
487, 491-492. - The reason for this is that the court must
assume jurisdiction to decide whether the allegations state
a cause of action on which the court can grant relief as
well as to determine issues of fact arising in the controversy.
Jurisdiction, therefore, is not defeated as respondents
seem to contend, by the possibility that the averments
might fail to state a cause of action on which petitioners
could actually recover. For it is well settled that the
failure to state a proper cause of action calls for a judgment on the merits and not for a dismissal for want of
jurisdiction. Whether the complaint states a cause of
action on which relief could be granted is a question of law
and just as issues of fact it must be decided after and not
before the court has assumed jurisdiction over the controversy. If the court does later exercise its jurisdiction
to determine that the allegations in the complaint do not
state a ground for relief, then dismissal of the case would
be on the merits, not for want of jurisdiction. Swafford
v. Templeton, 185 U. S. 487, 493, 494; Binderup v. Pathe
Exchange, 263 U. S. 291, 305-308.2 The previously carved
out exceptions are that a suit may sometimes be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction where the alleged claim under the
Constitution or federal statutes clearly appears to be immaterial and made solely for the purpose of obtaining
jurisdiction or where such a claim is wholly insubstantial
2

For other cases discussing the distinction between questions going

to the merits and those going to the jurisdiction, see the following:
Illinois Central R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 28; Geneva FurnitureCo.
v. Karpen, 238 U. S. 254; and see Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co. v.
Taylor, 86-F. 168.

BELL v. HOOD.
678

Opinion of the Court.

and frivolous. The accuracy of calling these dismissals
jurisdictional has been questioned. The Fair v. Kohler
Die Co., supra, 228 U. S. at 25. But cf. Swafiord v.
Templeton, supra.
But as we have already pointed out the alleged violations of the Constitution here are not immaterial but form
rather the sole basis of the relief sought. Nor can we say
that the cause of action alleged is so patently without
merit as to justify, even under the qualifications noted,
the court's dismissal for want of jurisdiction. The Circuit
Court of Appeals correctly stated that "the complaint
states strong cases, and if the allegations have any foundation in truth, the plaintiffs' legal rights have been ruthlessly violated." Petitioners' complaint asserts that the
Fourth and Fifth Amendments guarantee their rights to
be free from unauthorized and unjustified imprisonment
and from unreasonable searches and seizures. They claim
that respondents' invasion of these rights caused the damages for which they seek to recover and point further to
28 U. S. C. § 41 (1) which authorizes the federal district
courts to try "suits of a civil nature" where the matter in
controversy "arises under the Constitution or laws of the
United States," whether these are suits in "equity" or at
"law." Petitioners argue that this statute authorizes the
Court to entertain this action at law and to grant recovery
for the damages allegedly sustained. Respondents contend that the constitutional provisions here involved are
prohibitions against the Federal Government as a government and that 28 U. S. C. § 41 (1) does not authorize
recovery in money damages in suits against unauthorized
officials who according to respondents are in the same
position as individual trespassers.
Respondents' contention does not show that petitioners'
cause is insubstantial or frivolous, and the complaint does
in fact raise serious questions, both of law and fact, which
the District Court can decide only after it has assumed

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

jurisdiction over the controversy. The issue of law is
whether federal courts can grant money recovery for damages said to have been suffered as a result of federal officers
violating the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. That question has never been specifically decided by this Court.
That the issue thus raised has sufficient merit to warrant
exercise of federal jurisdiction for purposes of adjudicating
it can be seen from the cases where this Court has sustained the jurisdiction of the district courts in suits
brought to recover damages for depriving a citizen of the
right to vote in violation of the Constitution.' And it is
established practice for this Court to sustain the jurisdiction of federal courts to issue injunctions to protect rights
safeguarded by the Constitution I and to restrain individual state officers from doing what the 14th Amendment
forbids the State to do." Moreover, where federally protected rights have been invaded, it has been the rule from
the beginning that courts will be alert to adjust their
remedies so as to grant the necessary relief.' And it is
also well settled that where legal rights have been invaded,
and a federal statute provides for a general right to sue
for such invasion, federal courts may use any available
remedy to make good the wrong done.' Whether the peti3 Wiley v. Sinkler, supra; Swafford v. Templeton, supra. See also
Brickhouse v. Brooks, 165 F. 534, 543, in which a similar suit was held
to be within the jurisdiction of the federal court.
4 Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605; Hays v. Seattle, 251
U. S. 233; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1; City Railway Co.
v. Citizens' Railroad Co., 166 U. S. 557; City of Mitchell v. Dakota
Telephone Co., 246 U. S. 396, 407.
5 Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; see also Ex
parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 346, 347.
8
Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 162, 163; Texas & N. 0. R.
Co. v. Brotherhood of Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, 569, 570.
7 See e. g. Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222, and cases cited
and discussed at 228-230; Board of Comm'rs v. United States, 308
U. S. 343, 349-350.

BELL v. HOOD.
678

Dissent.

tioners are entitled to recover depends upon an interpretation of 28 U. S. C. § 41 (1) and on a determination of the
scope of the Fourth and Fifth Amendments' protection
from unreasonable searches and deprivations of liberty
without due process of law. Thus, the right of the petitioners to recover under their complaint will be sustained
if the Constitution and laws of the United States are given
one construction and will be defeated if they are given
another. For this reason the District Court has jurisdiction. Gully v. First National Bank, 299 U. S. 109, 112113; Smith v. Kansas City Title Co., 255 U. S. 180,
199-200.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE REED joins in the opinion and the result.
He desires to add to the cases cited in note 7, Barron v.
Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243, and Burdeau v. McDowell, 256
U. S. 465, 475.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE and MR. JUSTICE BURTON
dissenting.
The district court is without jurisdiction as a federal
court unless the complaint states a cause of action arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
Whether the complaint states such a cause of action is for
the court, not the pleader, to say. When the provision of
the Constitution or federal statute affords a remedy which
may in some circumstances be availed of by a plaintiff,
the fact that his pleading does not bring him within that
class as one entitled to the remedy, goes to the sufficiency
of the pleading and not to the jurisdiction. The Fair v.
Kohler Die Ca, 228 U. S. 22, 25; Binderup v. Pathe Exchange. 263 U. S. 291, 306-308, and cases cited. But
where, as here, neither the constitutional provision nor

686

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

any act of Congress affords a remedy to any person, the
mere assertion by a plaintiff that he is entitled to such a
remedy cannot be said to satisfy jurisdictional requirements. Hence we think that the courts below rightly
decided that the district court was without jurisdiction
because no cause of action under the Constitution or laws
of the United States was stated.
The only effect of holding, as the Court does, that jurisdiction is conferred by the pleader's unfounded assertion
that he is one who can have a remedy for damages arising
under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments is to transfer to
the federal court the trial of the allegations of trespass
to person and property, which is a cause of action arising
wholly under state law. For even though it be decided
that petitioners have no right to damages under the Constitution, the district court will be required to pass upon
the question whether the facts stated by petitioners give
rise to a cause of action for trespass under state law. See
Hum v. Oursler, 289 U. S. 238.
NORTH AMERICAN COMPANY v. SECURITIES &
EXCHANGE COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 1. Argued November 15, 1945.-Decided April 1, 1946.
1. The enactment of § 11 (b) (1) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to require each public utility holding company engaged in
interstate commerce to limit its operations to a single integrated
public utility system, was within the power of Congress under the
commerce clause of the Constitution. Pp. 700-707.
(a) While the ownership of securities, considered separately and
abstractly, may not be commerce, the ownership of securities of
operating companies has a real and intimate relation to the interstate activities of public utility holding companies and cannot be

