BOUTELL v. WALLING.
437

Syllabus.

warder" in considering whether port facilities were "connected" with water carriers. See California v. United
States, supra, at 586. The difference in fact and in business relation between the forwarders' "connection" in this
case, constituting merely an aspect of the shipper-carrier
relationship, and the "connection" in the Californiacase,
which normally involves a close business tie with the carrier, is vital and should be observed in applying a section
in which Congress dealt compendiously with various enterprises outside of, but related to, the regulated functions
of water carriers.
BOUTELL ET AL., DOING BUSINESS AS F. J. BOUTELL
SERVICE CO., v. WALLING, WAGE AND HOUR
ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 73.

Argued October 9, 1945.-Decided February 25, 1946.

1. Employees of a garage who are engaged exclusively in repairing
and maintaining vehicles of a single interstate motor carrier come
within the coverage of the Fair Labor Standards Act. P. 466.
2. They are not engaged in a "service establishment the greater part
of whose . . . servicing is in intrastate commerce" within the ex-

emption provided by § 13 (a) (2) of the Fair Labor Standards
Act. P. 467.
3. Nor do they come within § 13 (b) (1) of the Fair Labor Standards
Act exempting "any employee with respect to whom the Interstate
Commerce Commission has power to establish qualifications and
maximum hours of service pursuant to the provisions of Section
204 of the Motor Carrier Act, 1935," since their employer is not
a carrier. P. 467.
4. The power of the Interstate Commerce Commission to establish
maximum hours of service pursuant to the provisions of § 204
of the Motor Carrier Act (Part II of the Interstate Commerce
Act) is limited to employees of "carriers." P. 467.
5. Administrative interpretations of the Fair Labor Standards Act
by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of the De-

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
327 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

partment of Labor and the Interstate Commerce Act by the Interstate Commerce Commission are entitled to great weight. P. 471.
148 F. 2d 329, affirmed.

In a suit brought by the Administrator of the Wage
and Hour Division of the Department of Labor, the District Court enjoined petitioners from violating the maximum hours provisions of § 7 of the Fair Labor Standards
Act. The Circuit Court of. Appeals affirmed. 148 F. 2d
329. This Court granted certiorari.
Affirmed, p. 472.

325 U.

S. 849.

Submitted on brief for petitioners by Harry G. Gault

and Glenn M. Coulter.
Bessie Margolinargued the cause for respondent. With
her on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Judson,
William. S. Tyson and Albert A. Spiegel.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON
Court.

delivered the opinion of the

This suit Was brought in the District Court of the United

States for the Eastern District of Michigan, by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, United States

Department of Labor, to enjoin petitioners from violating the maximum hours provisions'

of the Fair Labor

1"SEc. 7. (a) No employer shall, except as otherwise provided in
this section, employ any of his employees who is engaged in commerce
or in the production of goods for commerce(1) for a workweek longer than forty-four hours during the
first year from the effective date of this section,
(2) for a workweek longer than forty-two hours during the
second year from such date, or
(3) for a workweek longer than forty hours after the expiration
of the second year from such date,
unless such employee receives compensation for his employment in
excess of the hours above specified at a rate not less than one and
one-half times the regular rate at which he is employed." 52 Stat.
1063,29 U. S. C. § 207 (a).

BOUTELL v. WALLING.
463

465

Opinion of the Court.

Standards Act of 1938. 52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201,
et seq.
Petitioners are two of four partners doing business as
F. J. Boutell Service Company, the other two not being
subject to the jurisdiction of the District Court. The four
partners are the sole stockholders of the F. J. Boutell
Drive-Away Company, a Michigan corporation, engaged
in the transportation of automobiles and army equipment
in interstate commerce.
The employees of the Service Company involved in this
suit are mechanics engaged in greasing, repairing, servicing and maintaining the transportation equipment
owned and operated by the Drive-Away Company. The
parties have stipulated and the trial court has found that
the Service Company is engaged exclusively in rendering
such service to the Drive-Away Company and such corporation "is an entity separate and distinct from" the
Service Company.
The case presents two questions: (1) whether the employees of the Service Company are "engaged in any retail
or service establishment the greater part of whose selling
or servicing is in intrastate commerce" within the meaning of the exemption clause, § 13 (a) (2);2 and (2)
whether they come within the exemption clause, § 13 (b)
(1), which exempts from § 7 3 of the Act "any employee
with respect to whom the Interstate Commerce Commission has power to establish qualifications and maximum
hours of service pursuant to the provisions of section 2044
13. (a) The provisions of sections 6 and 7 shall not apply
2 "SEC.
with respect to . . . (2) any employee engaged in any retail or
service establishment the greater part of whose selling or servicing
isin intrastate commerce;..." 52 Stat. 1067, 29 U. S. C. § 213
(a) (2).
3 See note 1 supra.
'"SEC. 204 (a) It shall be the duty of the Commission"(1) To regulate common carriers by motor vehicle as provided
in this part, and to that end the Commission may establish reasonable

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

of the Motor Carrier Act, 1935." 52- Stat. 1068, 29
U. S. C. § 213 (b) (1). The District Court ruled against
petitioners on both questions and granted the injunction
sought by the Administrator. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed on both grounds. 148 F. 2d 329. We agree
with those conclusions.
The amended findings of fact agreed to by the parties
include the statement that the petitioners' employees
"involved in this proceeding are mechanics engaged in
greasing, repairing, servicing and maintaining the transportation equipment owned and operated by the F. J.
Boutell Drive-Away Company . . ." No claim is made

that these employees are not engaged in interstate commerce within the meaning of § 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act. They are well within the requirement that they
be "actually in or so closely related to the movement of
the commerce as to be a part of it." McLeod v. Threlkeld,
319 U. S. 491, 497.5
requirements with respect to continuous and adequate service, transportation of baggage and express, uniform systems of accounts, records, and reports, preservation of records, qualifications and maximum
hours of service of employees, and safety of operation and equipment.
"(2) To regulate contract carriersby motor vehicle as provided in
this part, and to that end the Commission may establish reasonable
requirements with respect to uniform systems of accounts, records,
and reports, preservation of records, qualifications and maximum
hours of service of employees, and safety of operation and equipment.
"(3) To establishfor private carriersof property by motor vehicle,
if need therefor is found, reasonable requirements to promote safety
of operation, and to that end prescribe qualifications and maximum
hours of service of employees, and standards of equipment. . ....
(Italics supplied.) 49 Stat. 546, 49 U. S. C. § 304 (a) (1) (2) (3).
5 Overstreet v. North Shore Corp., 318 U. S.125, 130; Overnight
Motor Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S.572, 574. See also under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, New York Central R. Co. v. Marcone, 281
U. S.345, 349; Pedersen v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 229 U. S. 146,
150; New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Walsh, 223 U. S.1, 6. Compare
Shanks v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 239 U. S.556, 560.

BOUTELL v. WALLING.
Opinion of the Court.

463

In answer to the first question, the record shows that
these employees do not come within the exemption stated
in § 13 (a) (2). This is so because their employer, the
Service Company, supplies its services, including their
services, exclusively to the Drive-Away Company which
in turn uses those services in interstate commerce. The
Drive-Away Company does not use their services for its
own purposes as an ultimate consumer, beyond the end
of the flow of goods in interstate commerce. Accordingly,
the employees of the Service Company are not engaged in
a retail or service establishment within the meaning of
§ 13 (a) (2) as interpreted in Roland Electrical Co. v.
Walling, 326 U. S. 657, and Martino v. Michigan Window
Cleaning Co., 327 U. S. 173. Furthermore, substantially
all of the servicing done by the Service Company is thus
done in interstate commerce, whereas § 13 (a) (2) requires
the greater part of it to be done in intrastate commerce
if the employees rendering it are to be exempted under
that provision.
The question whether the employees of the Service
Company are to be exempted by virtue of § 13 (b) (1)
turns upon whether the Interstate Commerce Commission has the "power to establish" maximum hours of service for them under § 204 (a) (1), (2) or (3) of the Motor
Carrier Act, 1935,6 now officially cited as Part II of the
Interstate Commerce Act, 54 Stat. 919, 49 U. S. C. § 301,
et seq. Whatever may be the precise scope of the Commission's "power to establish" hours of service, we hold
that the Commission does not have that power over the
men here concerned because the Commission's jurisdiction is limited to employees of "carriers" and the record
here shows that the men in question are employees of the
Service Company, which is not a carrier, rather than of
the Drive-Away Company, which is a carrier. This is
B

See note 4 supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

true although the work these employees do is all supplied to the Drive-Away Company through the Service
Company.
The Wage and Hour Division has found to its satisfaction the facts necessary to place these employees of the
Service Company under its jurisdiction for the purposes of
the Fair Labor Standards Act. The record contains no
suggestion that the Interstate Commerce Commission or
any other administrative body has found that these employees of the Service Company are or should be treated
as employees of the Drive-Away Company for the purposes of the Interstate Commerce Act. This case, therefore, is decided upon the basis that the parties have
stipulated and the trial court has found that these employees are employees of the partnership, the Service
Company, which is the relationship established for them
by the petitioners as their employers. See Schenley
Distillers Corp. v. United States, 326 U. S. 432, for a case
giving effect to certain other consequences under the
Motor Carrier Act of a corporate arrangement chosen by
the persons concerned as a means of carrying on their
business. See also Higgins v. Smith, 308 U. S.473, 477,
for a different result under other circumstances.
In the absence of power in the Interstate Commerce
Commission to establish the maximum hours of service
of these employees, the provisions of the Fair Labor
Standards Act as to their maximum hours of employment
remain applicable to them.
It appears from the face of the Motor Carrier Act that
§ 204 refers only to the regulation of "carriers." Moreover, Section 226 of the Act (formerly numbered 225, 54
Stat. 929, 49 U. S. C. § 325), which authorizes investigations by the Commission as a basis for the regulation of
the maximum hours of service of employees under § 204,
refers only to investigations of the "maximum hours of

BOUTELL v. WALLING.
463

Opinion of the Court.

service of employees of all motor carriers and private
carriers of property by motor vehicle . . ." ' The legislative history of the section is reviewed in United States v.
American Trucking Assns., 310 U. S. 534, 544-550.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has written
many decisions defining the limits of its authority to pre7 "SEc. 225.

The Commission is hereby authorized to investigate
and report on the need for Federal regulation of the sizes and weight
of motor vehicles and combinations of motor vehicles and of the
qualifications and maximum hours of service of employees of all
motor carriersand private carriersof property by motor vehicle; and
in such investigation the Commission shall avail itself of the assistance
of all departments or bureaus of the Government and of any organization of motor carriers having special knowledge of any such matter.'
(Italics supplied.) 49 Stat. 566, 49 U. S. C. § 325, renumbered as
§ 226 by 54 Stat. 929.
In discussing § 204 (a) (1), (2) and (3) and § 225 Senator Wheeler,
sponsor of the Bill, said in explanation of it". .. the committee amended paragraphs (1) and (2) to confer
power on the Commission to establish reasonable requirements
with respect to the qualifications and maximum hours of service
of employees of common and contract carriers, thus restoring
provisions that were in the Rayburn bill, introduced in the Seventy-third Congress....
"In order to make the highways more safe, and so that common and contract carriers may not be unduly prejudiced in their
competition with peddler trucks and other private operators of
motor trucks, a provision was added in subparagraph 3 giving
the Commission authority to establish similar requirements with
respect to the qualifications and hours of service of the employees
of such operators. The exercise of this power with respect to the
three classes of carriers is intended to be contingent upon the
results of the comprehensive investigation of the need for regulation of this kind provided for in section 225. . . ." (Italics
supplied.) 79 Cong. Rec. 5652. See also, p. 5660.
In the House of Representatives, Representative Pettengill read
the following observation made by Joseph B. Eastman of the Interstate Commerce Commission"The bill . . . gives the Commission authority to prescribe
maximum hours of service for the employees of common carriers,
contract carriers,and private carriersof property ... ". (Italics
supplied.) 79 Cong. Rec. 12,229. See also, S. Rep. No. 482, 74th
Cong., 1st Sess. (1935) p. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

scribe qualifications and maximum hours of service for
employees of motor carriers under § 204 (a) (1), (2) and
(3), but throughout these decisions it apparently has assumed that its jurisdiction is limited to employees of
"carriers" which in turn are under the jurisdiction of the
Commission. It has, for example, recognized its power
to establish maximum hours of service for automobile
maintenance mechanics of "carriers" 8 but at the same
time has said"By far the larger proportion of the carriers subject
to our jurisdiction operate less than 10 vehicles and
do not employ mechanics to repair their vehicles,
but on the contrary have such work done in commercial garages. We have, of course, no jurisdiction
over employees working in commercial garages."
(Italics supplied.) Ex parteNo. MC-2, In the Matter of Maximum Hours of Service of Motor Carrier
Employees, 28 M. C. C. 125, 132.
The Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of
the Department of Labor has interpreted § 13 (b) (1) of
the Fair Labor Standards Act consistently with the interpretation given to it by the Jnterstate Commerce
"Our findings of fact and conclusions of law are as follows:
"Findings of fact.-1. That mechanics employed by common and
contract carriers and private carriers of' property by motor vehicle,
subject to part II of the Interstate Commerce Act, devote a large part
of their time to activities which directly affect the safety of operation
of motor vehicles in interstate or foreign commerce ...
"Conclusions of law.- . .
"3. That we have power, under section 204 (a) of said part II, to
establish qualifications and maximum hours of service for the classes
of employees covered by findings of fact numbered 1, 2, and 3 above,
[mechanics, loaders and helpers employed by carriers] and that we
have no such power over any other classes of employees, except
drivers." Ex parte No. MC-2, 28 M. C. C. 125, 138-139. See also
Ex parte No. MC-2, 3 M. C. C. 665, 667; 6 M. C. C. 557; 11 M. C. C.
203; Ex parte No. MC-28, Jurisdiction Over Employees of Motor
Carriers, 13 M. C. C. 481, 488; Ex parte No. MC-S, Motor Carrier
Safety Regulations-PrivateCarriers,23 M. C. C. 1, 8.
8

BOUTELL v. WALLING.
463

Opinion of the Court.

Commission.' The interpretation of this Act by each of
these agencies is entitled to great weight. United States
v. American Trucking Assns., 310 U. S. 534, 549.
Throughout the discussion of these sections by this
Court in United States v. American Trucking Assns.,
supra, and in Southland Gasoline Co. v. Bayley, 319 U. S.
44, it is assumed that they refer to employees of "carriers"
and of "motor vehicle operators" which are themselves
under the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission, and there is nothing in either case to indicate an
interpretation by this Court that the exemption prescribed
in § 13 (b) (1) extends to workers whose services affect
the safety of operations of motor vehicle carriers but who
are not themselves employees of a carrier.
In this view of this case, it is not necessary to determine
what kind of a carrier the Drive-Away Company is or even
whether it is a carrier within the meaning of the Motor
Carrier Act because the employees involved in this case
are not its employees. Similarly, it is not necessary to
determine which of the employees of the Service Company do work which affects the safety of the operation
9 See Interpretative Bulletin No. 9, Wage and Hour Division, Office
of the Administrator, originally issued March, 1939, 5th Rev., October,
1943. 2 C. C. H. Labor Law Service, 32,109. Where motor vehicle

drivers or mechanics are employed by companies engaged in certain
types of interstate transportation over which the Interstate Commerce
Commission disclaims jurisdiction, they are held to be covered by the
Fair Labor Standards Act. For example, if such employees are engaged in the transportation in interstate commerce of consumable
goods, such as food, coal and ice, to railroads and docks for use in
trains and steamships, jurisdiction over them is disclaimed by the
Commission but is accepted by the Wage and Hour Division as covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act. Interpretative Bulletin No. 9,
supra, Par. 6 (b). The Wage and Hour Division also accepts jurisdiction over employees engaged in the transportation of mail in interstate commerce who are employed, not by the carrier, but by a
contractor dealing directly with the Post Office Department. Id.,
Par. 7 (b).

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

of motor vehicles because that classification applies to
employees whose hours are regulated by the Interstate
Commerce Commission and not to those whose hours are
regulated by the Fair Labor Standards Act.
For these reasons we find that petitioners' employees
come within the coverage of the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938 and not within the exemptions stated in either
§ 13 (a) (2) or § 13 (b) (1) of that Act, and the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, therefore, is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

dissenting.

I agree that these employees would be covered by the
Fair Labor Standards Act but for the exemption contained
in § 13 (b) (1). That subsection exempts from § 7 of the
Act "any employee with respect to whom the Interstate
Commerce Commission has power to establish qualifications and maximum hours of service pursuant to the provisions of section 204 of the Motor Carrier Act, 1935 . . ."
There is no doubt that the Interstate Commerce Commission has the power to establish qualifications and maximum hours for employees of a carrier who are mechanics
engaged in greasing, repairing, servicing, and maintaining
its transportation equipment. In the Matter of Maximum Hours of Service of Motor Carrier Employees, 28
M. C. C. 125. I think that power would still exist if the
carrier separately incorporated its garage. This affiliated
garage is not like an independent commercial garage.
It is still a part of the carrier's business-no more separate
or distinct than any other department. The same people
own it, operate it, and manage it. If the Interstate Commerce Commission, acting under § 204 of the Motor
Carrier Act of 1935, had undertaken to establish the quali-

BOUTELL v. WALLING.
463

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

fications and maximum hours for these mechanics, I cannot believe that we would allow its jurisdiction to be
defeated by that device, whatever may have been the
reason for the separate incorporation of the garage. For
these mechanics were, in the practical sense, employees of
the carrier after, as well as before, incorporation. And the
exemption contained in § 13 (b) (1) of the Fair Labor
Standards Act is dependent, not on the exercise by the
Interstate Commerce Commission of its power, but on. the
existence of that power.' The power which Congress
granted the Interstate Commerce Commission to establish
qualifications and maximum hours for mechanics should
not be allowed to be defeated by arrangements between
parties which, for certain purposes, may estop them from
asserting that two corporations in form are" one in
substance.
This particular exemption may not be a wise one. But
we must take the law as it is written. The policy behind
the exemption is defeated, if mere legal forms are allowed
to nullify the power of the Interstate Commerce Commission to deal with the problem of safety. As the Commission said, ". . . the carefully supervised work of skilled
mechanics is a most important factor in the prevention
of accidents, and therefore in the promotion of highway
safety." In the Matter of Maximum Hours of Service of
Motor Carrier Employees, supra, p. 133. We should
refuse to whittle down that jurisdiction, even though we
thought that the public interest would be better served
by broadening the coverage of the Fair Labor Standards
Act.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

join in this dissent.
'To date the Commission has prescribed qualifications and maximum hours only for drivers. See 49 Code Fed. Reg., Cum. Supp.
(1944) Parts 191, 192.

