280

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 'U. S.

COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE v.
TOWER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 317. Argued January 10, 11, 1946.-Decided February 25, 1946.
Respondent had managed and controlled a manufacturing business
since 1927. From 1933 to 1937 it was operated as a corporation.

He was president, owning 445 out of 500 shares; his wife was
nominal vice president, owning five shares; and one Amidon was
secretary, owning 25 shares. Respondent transferred 190 shares
to his wife, paying a gift tax; and, three days later, in order to save
taxes, the corporation was dissolved and a partnership was organized consisting of respondent and Amidon as general partners
and respondent's wife as a limited partner with no authority to
participate in the conduct of the business. Each contributed the
value of his stock and no new capital was contributed. Respondent
continued to manage and control the business, which was conducted
as before except that respondent and Amidon ceased to draw
salaries. The wife contributed no services to the business and used
her share of the income to buy the same type of things she had
bought for herself, home and family before the partnership was
formed. Held:
1. These facts were sufficient to support a finding by the Tax
Court that, as between respondent and his wife, no genuine "partnership" within the meaning of 26 U. S. C. §§ 181, 182 existed, that
respondent earned the income, and that he should be taxed on it
under 26 U. S. C. § 22 (a). Pp. 286, 291,292.
2. A finding of fact by the Tax Court, being supported by evidence, is final. P. 287.
3. In passing on the question whether an alleged partnership is
a real partnership within the meaning of the federal tax laws,
the Tax Court is not governed by the treatment of the partnership
by state law and decisions for purposes of state law. P. 287.
4. While the legal right of a taxpayer to decrease the amount
of what otherwise would be his taxes or altogether avoid them
by means which the law permits can not be doubted, Gregory v.
Helvering, 293 U. S. 465, this Court can not order the Tax Court
to shut its eyes to the realities of tax avoidance schemes. P. 288.

COMMISSIONER v. TOWER.
280

Statement of the Case.

5. In passing on the applicability of 26 U. S. C. §§ 181, 182 to
income from a "family partnership"(a) The question is not simply who actually owned a share
of the capital attributed to the wife on the partnership books but
who earned the income. P. 289.
(b) In this case, that issue depends on whether the husband
and wife really intended to carry on business as a partnership.
P. 289.
(c) These issues can not be decided simply by looking at a
single step in a complicated transaction. Pp. 289, 290.
(d) To decide who worked for, otherwise created or controlled the income, all steps in the process of earning the profits
must be taken into consideration. Pp. 290.
6. A wife may become a general or limited partner with her
husband for tax, as for other, purposes; but, when the husband
purports to have given her a partnership interest, she does not
share in the management and control of the business, and she
contributes no vital additional service, the Tax Court may properly
take these circumstances into consideration in determining whether
the partnership is real within the meaning of the federal tax laws.
P. 290.
7. If, in the circumstances of this case, the end result of the
creation of a husband-wife partnership, though valid under state
laws, is that income produced by the husband's efforts continues
to be used for the same business and family purposes as before
the partnership, failure to tax it as the husband's income would
frustrate the purpose of 26 U. S. C. § 22 (a), defining gross income
as including all earnings of any individual from "any source whatever." P. 291.
8. Single tax earnings can not be divided into two tax units and
surtaxes avoided by the simple expedient of drawing up papers
creating a husband-wife partnership. P. 291.
148 F. 2d 388, reversed.

The Commissioner of Internal Revenue levied a deficiency assessment against respondent on the ground that
the part of the earnings of a "family partnership" which
had been paid to, and reported by, his wife actually had
been earned by respondent and should have been reported
as his income. The Tax Court sustained the levy. 3
T. C. 396. The circuit court of appeals reversed. 148

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

F. 2d 388. This Court granted certiorari.
703. Reversed, p. 292.

327 U. S.
326 U. S.

Arnold Raum argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., Sewall
Key, Helen R. Carloss and John F. Costelloe.
Oscar E. Waer argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue determined
that respondent's wife had in her income tax returns for
1940 and 1941 reported as her earnings income that actually had been earned by her husband but had not been
reported in his returns. A deficiency assessment was consequently levied against the respondent by the Commissioner. The particular earnings involved were a portion
of net income attributed to a partnership, to which, according to its records, 90 per cent of the capital had been
contributed by respondent and his wife; of this, 51 per
cent had been contributed by the respondent and 39 per
cent by his wife. If, as respondent asserts, the circumstances surrounding the formation and operation of this
partnership were such as to bring it within the meaning
of §§ 181 and 182 of Title 26 of the United States Code,
then the respondent and his wife are liable only for their
respective individual share of the business' income. These
sections provide that partners are liable for taxes on partnership income only in their "individual capacity" and
that each partner shall report "his distributive share of
the ordinary net income . . . of the partnership . . ."
But § 11 of Title 26 of the United States Code levies a
tax on the "net income of every individual," and the "net
income" is required to be computed on the basis of "gross
income" as defined in § 22 (a), which broadly includes

COMMISSIONER v. TOWER.
280

Opinion of the Court.

all earnings of any individual from "any source whatever." And we have held that the dominant purpose of
all sections of the revenue laws, including these, is "the
taxation of income to those who earn or otherwise create
the right to receive it and enjoy the benefit of it when
paid." Helvering v. Horst, 311 U. S. 112, 119. The basic
question in deciding whether the Commissioner's deficiency assessment was proper, is: Was the income attributed to the wife as a partner income from a partnership
for which she alone was liable in her "individual capacity,"
as provided by 26 U. S. C. §§ 181 and 182, or did the
husband, despite the claimed partnership, actually create
the right to receive and enjoy the benefit of the income,
so as to make it taxable to him under §§ 11 and 22 (a) ?
The respondent asked the Tax Court to review and
redetermine the Commissioner's deficiency assessment,
insisting that the income in question was not the
respondent's but his wife's share in a partnership. The
Commissioner urged in the Tax Court that the wife had
contributed neither services nor capital to the partnership
and that her alleged membership in the partnership was
a sham. Respondent admitted that she had not contributed her services, but contended that she had made a contribution of capital as shown by the amount attributed
to her on the partnership books and that she was a bona
fide partner. Her alleged contribution consisted of assets
which the husband claimed to have given to her three
days before the formation of the partnership.
The Tax Court concluded that the respondent had never
executed a complete gift of the assets which his wife later
purportedly contributed to the partnership; that after the
partnership was formed respondent continued to manage
and control the business as he had done for many years
before; that his economic relation to the portion of the
partnership income which was attributed to his wife was
such that it continued to be available to be used for the

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

same purposes as before, including ordinary family purposes; that the effect of the whole partnership arrangement, so far as it involved respondent and his wife, was
a mere reallocation of respondent's business income within the family group; and that the dissolution of the corporation and the subsequent formation of the partnership
fulfilled no business purpose other than a reduction of the
husband's income tax. The Tax Court concluded that
this family partnership income was in fact earned by the
husband; that there was no real partnership between petitioner and his wife for purposes of carrying on a business enterprise; that the wife received a portion of the
income "only by reason of her marital relationship," and
held that the entire income was, therefore, taxable to the
respondent under 26 U. S. C. § 22 (a). 3 T. C. 396. The
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed.
148 F. 2d 388. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit sustained a holding by the Tax Court, based on
facts in all material respects similar to the ones in this case,
that all the income from a husband-wife partnership was
taxable income of the husband under 26 U. S. C. § 22 (a).
Lusthaus v. Commissioner, 149 F. 2d 232. Other circuit
courts of appeals have also sustained similar holdings by
the Tax Court.1 As is indicated by numerous Tax Court
decisions, attempts to escape surtaxes by dividing one
earned income into two or more through the device of
family partnerships have recently created an acute problem.2 Because of the various views expressed as to controlling legal principles in the decisions discussing such
arrangements, we granted certiorari both in this and the
Lusthaus case, post, p. 293.
1 Earp v. Jones, 131 F. 2d 292 (C. C. A. 10th); Mead v. Commissioner, 131 F. 2d 323 (C. C. A. 5th); Argo v. Commissioner, 150 F. 2d
67 (C. C. A. 5th); Lorenz v. Commissioner, 148 F. 2d 527 (C. C. A.
6th).
2 See cases collected in Paul, Partnerships in Tax Avoidance, 13
Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 121.

COMMISSIONER v. TOWER.
280

Opinion of the Court.

A statement of some of the pertinent facts shown by the
record and on which the Tax Court based its conclusion
will cast some light on the problem. Broadly speaking,
these facts follow a general pattern found in many of the
"family partnership" cases. The business here involved,
R. J. Tower Iron Works, is located in Greenville, Michigan and has manufactured and sold sawmill machinery
and wood and metal stampings. Respondent's participation in the business dates back twenty-eight years. He
has managed and controlled the company since the death
of his father in 1927. During the tax years in question
the business had forty to sixty employees on its pay roll..
From 1933 to 1937 the business was operated as a corporation. The respondent was the president of the corporation and owned 445 out of the 500 shares outstanding,'
his wife was vice president and owned five shares, and one
Mr. Amidon was the secretary, owning twenty-five shares.
These three also constituted the Board of Directors,
and while Tower managed the corporate affairs, Amidon
acted as bookkeeper. Mrs. Tower performed no business
services.
In 1937 substantial profits pointed to increased taxes.
Respondent's attorney and his tax accountant advised him
that dissolution of the corporation and formation of a
partnership with his wife as a principal partner would
result in tax savings and eliminate the necessity of filing
various corporate returns. The -suggested change was
put into effect. August 25, 1937, respondent transferred
190 shares of the corporation's stock ,to his wife on the
condition that she place the corporate assets represented
by these shares into the new partnership. Respondent,
treating the stock transfer to his wife as a gift valued at
$57,000.00, later paid a gift tax of $213.44. Three days
3 For about six months immediately following incorporation the respondent owned only 425 shares.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

after the stock transfer the corporation was liquidated, a
limited partnership was formed and a certificate of partnership was duly filed for record as required by Michigan
law. According to the books, the value of the donated
stock became the wife's contribution to the partnership.
The formation of the partnership did not in any way alter
the conduct of the business, except that both Amidon and
Tower ceased to draw salaries. By an agreement made
shortly thereafter, a readjustment was made in the amount
of profits each partner was to receive, under which Amidon's share became the equivalent of, if not more than,
the amount of the salary he had previously drawn. Under the partnership agreement the respondent continued
to have the controlling voice in the business, as to purchases, sales, salaries, the time of distribution of income,
and all other essentials. Respondent's wife, as a limited
partner, was prohibited from participation in the conduct
of the business. So far as appears, the part of her purported share of the partnership business she actually expended was used to buy what a husband usually buys for
his wife such as clothes and things for the family or to
carry on activities ordinarily of interest to the family
as a group.
We are of the opinion that the foregoing facts were sufficient to support the Tax Court's finding that the wife was
not a partner in the business.4 A partnership is generally
said to be created when persons join together their money,
goods, labor, or skill for the purpose of carrying on a trade,
profession, or business and when there is community of
interest in the profits and losses.' When the existence of
4 Since the Commissioner had determined that the wife was not
really a partner, the burden rested upon the respondent to produce
sufficient evidence to convince the Tax Court that the Commissioner's
determination was wrong. Welch v. Helvering, 290 U. S. 111; Commissioner v. Heininger,320 U. S. 467, 475.
5 Ward v. Thompson, 22 How. 330, 333, 334; Meehan v. Valentine,

145 U. S. 611, 618.

COMMISSIONER v. TOWER.
280

Opinion of the Court.

an alleged partnership arrangement is challenged by outsiders, the question arises whether the partners really and
truly intended to join together for the purpose of carrying
on business and sharing in the profits or losses or both.
And their intention in this respect is a question of fact,
to be determined from testimony disclosed by their "agreement, considered as a whole, and by their conduct in execution of its provisions." Drennen v. London Assurance
Co., 113 U. S. 51, 56; Cox v. Hickman, 8 H. L. Cas. 268.
We see no reason why this general rule should not apply
in tax cases where the Government challenges the existence of a partnership for tax purposes.6 Here the Tax
Court, acting pursuant to its authority in connection with
the enforcement of federal laws, has found from testimony
before it that respondent and his wife did not intend to
carry on business as a partnership. This finding of fact,
since supported by evidence, is final. Commissioner v.
Heininger,320 U. S. 467, 475; Dobson v. Commissioner,
320 U. S. 489. The decision of the Tax Court was therefore correct unless, as respondent contends, the Tax Court
erroneously disregarded or improperly applied certain
legal principles.
Respondent contends that the partnership arrangement
here in question would have been valid under Michigan
law and argues that the Tax Court should consequently
have held it valid for tax purposes also. But the Tax
Court in making a final authoritative finding on the question whether this was a real partnership is not governed
by how Michigan law might treat the same circumstances
for purposes of state law. Thus, Michigan could and
might decide that the stock-transfer here was sufficient
under state law to pass title to the wife, so that in the
6

What would be the effect for tax purposes should taxpayers after
holding themselves out as a partnership later challenge the existence
of the partnership, is a question not here presented. See Higgins v.
Smith, 308 U. S. 473, 477.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

event of her death it would pass to whatever members of
her family would be entitled to receive it under Michigan's
law of descent and distribution. But Michigan cannot,
by its decisions and laws governing questions over which
it has final say, also decide issues of federal tax law and
thus hamper the effective enforcement of a valid federal
tax levied against earned income. The contention was
rejected in Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S. 111. There husband
and wife made an agreement for joint ownership of the
husband's future income. Assuming that the husband's
future earnings were under California law considered as
partly owned by the wife, this Court refused to accept
the State's concept of the effect of the agreement which
would have reduced the federal tax on income actually
earned by the husband. And in Helvering v. Clifford,
309 U. S. 331, 334-335, we held that the purpose of 26
U. S. C. § 22 (a) to tax all income against the person who
controlled its distribution could not be frustrated by
family group arrangements, even though the distribution
arrangements were valid for state law purposes. The
statutes of Congress designed to tax income actually
earned because of the capital and efforts of each individual member of a joint enterprise are not to be frustrated by state laws which for state purposes prescribe
the relations of the members to each other and to outsiders. Cf. Burk-Waggoner Assn. v. Hopkins, 269 U. S.
110, 114.
Respondent contends that the Tax Court's holding that
he is taxable for the profits from the partnership is contrary to a principle long recognized by this Court that
"The legal right of a taxpayer to decrease the amount of
what otherwise would be his taxes, or altogether avoid
them, by means which the law permits, cannot be
doubted." Gregory v. Helvering, 293 U. S. 465, 469. We
do not reject that principle. It would clearly apply, for
example, in a situation where a member of a partnership,

COMMISSIONER v. TOWER.
280

Opinion of the Court.

in order to keep from paying future taxes on partnership
profits and in order to get into a lower income tax bracket,
sells his interest to a stranger, relinquishing all control of
the business. But the situation is different where the taxpayer draws a paper purporting to sell his partnership
interest even to a stranger, though actually he continues
to control the business to the extent he had before the
"sale" and channels the income to his wife. Then a showing that the arrangement was made for the express purpose of reducing taxes simply lends 'further support to
the inference that the husband still controls the income
from his partnership interest, that no partnership really
exists and that earnings are really his and are therefore
taxable to him and not to his wife. The arrangement
we are here considering was of the type where proof of a
motive to reduce income taxes simply lent further strength
to the inference drawn by the Tax Court that the wife was
not really a partner. See Paul, Selected Studies in Federal Taxation, 2d series, pp. 293-300. To rule otherwise
would mean ordering the Tax Court to shut its eyes to
the realities of tax avoidance schemes.
Respondent urges further that the Tax Court erroneously concluded that the gift was ineffective for tax purposes because it was conditional and therefore incomplete.
The Government defends the Tax Court's conclusion. We
do not find it necessary to decide this issue. The question
here is not simply who actually owned a share of the capital attributed to the wife on the partnership books. A
person may be taxed on profits earned from property,
where he neither owns nor controls it. Lucas v. Earl,
supra! The issue is who earned the income and that issue
depends on whether this husband and wife really intended
to carry on business as a partnership. Those issues cannot
7 Under some circumstances income has been held taxable to a person even when he does not own or control it. United States v. Joliet
& Chicago R. Co., 315 U. S. 44, 46.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

be decided simply by looking at a single step in a complicated transaction. To decide who worked for, otherwise created or controlled the income, all steps in the
process of earning the profits must be taken into consideration. See Commissioner v. Court Holding Co., 324 U. S.
331, 334. Of course, the question of legal ownership of
the capital purportedly contributed by a wife will frequently throw light on the broader question of whether an
alleged partnership is real or pretended. But here the Tax
Court's findings were supported by a sufficient number of
other factors in the transaction, so that we need not decide
whether its holding as to the completeness of the gift was
correct. Cf. Helvering v. Hallock, 309 U. S. 106, 117,118;
Burnet v. Wells, 289 U. S. 670, 677.
There can be no question that a wife and a husband may,
under certain circumstances, become partners for tax, as
for other, purposes. If she either invests capital originating with her or substantially contributes to the control and
management of the business, or otherwise performs vital
additional services, or does all of these things she may be
a partner as contemplated by 26 U. S. C. §§ 181, 182. The
Tax Court has recognized that under such circumstances
the income belongs to the wife.8 A wife may become a
general or a limited partner with her husband. But when
she does not share in the management and control of the
business, contributes no vital additional service, and where
the husband purports in some way to have given her a
partnership interest, the Tax Court may properly take
these circumstances into consideration in determining
whether the partnership is real within the meaning of the
federal revenue laws.
It is the command of the taxpayer over the income
which is the concern of the tax laws. Harrisonv. Schaffner, 312 U. S. 579, 581, 582. And income earned by one
" See e. g. Croft v. Commissioner, [1944 P-H T. C. Mem. Dec.
44,330] T. C. No. 1432, decided October 11, 1944.

COMMISSIONER v. TOWER.
280

Opinion of the Court.

person is taxable as his, if given to another for the donor's
satisfaction. Helvering v. Horst, 311 U. S. 112, 119. It
is for this reason, among others, that we said in Helvering
v. Clifford, supra, 335, that transactions between husband
and wife calculated to reduce family taxes should always
be subjected to special scrutiny. For if under circumstances such as those now before us, the end result of the
creation of a husband-wife partnership, though valid under state laws, is that income produced by the husband's
efforts continues to be used for the same business and
family purposes as before the partnership, failure to tax
it as the husband's income would frustrate the purpose
of 26 U. S. C. § 22 (a). By the simple expedient of drawing up papers, single tax earnings cannot be divided into
two tax units and surtaxes cannot be thus avoided.
Judged by the actual result achieved, the Tax Court
was justified in finding that the partnership here brought
about no real change in the economic relation of the husband and his wife to the income in question. Before the
partnership the husband managed, controlled, and did a
good deal of the work involved in running the business,
and he had funds at his disposal which he either used in
the business or expended for family purposes. The wife
did not contribute her services to the business and received
money from her husband for her own and family expenses.
After the partnership was formed the husband continued
to control and manage the business exactly as he had before. The wife again took no part in the management
or operation of the business. If it be said that as a limited
partner she could not share in the management without
becoming a general partner the result is the same. No
capital not available for use in the business before was
brought into the business as a result of the formation of
the partnership. And the wife drew on income which the
partnership books attributed to her only for purposes of
buying and paying for the type of things she had bought

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

327 U. S.

for herself, home and family before the partnership was
formed. Consequently the result of the partnership was
a mere paper reallocation of income among the family
members. The actualities of their relation to the income
did not change. There was, thus, more than ample evidence to support the Tax Court's finding that no genuine
union for partnership business purposes was ever intended
and that the husband earned the income. Whether the
evidence would have supported a different finding by the
Tax Court is a question not here presented.
Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE REED dissent for
the reasons stated in their dissenting opinion in Lusthaus
v. Commissioner,post, p. 297.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring.

I agree with the result and with the Court's view that
the evidence was amply sufficient to sustain the Tax
Court's fin~dings and conclusions in this case and in Lusthaus v. Commissioner,post, p. 293. Candor forces me to
add, however, that in my judgment the decisions' effect is
to rule that in situations of this character the formation
of a limited partnership under state law between husband
and wife, with the latter as the limited partner, following
immediately upon the husband's donation to the wife of
a share in the assets of the business previously and afterwards conducted by him and conditioned upon her leaving
the assets in the business, as a matter of federal tax law
does not accomplish the formation of a partnership sufficient to relieve the husband of tax liability for the income
derived after the transfer from use in the business of the
share thus donated to the wife. In other words, I think
that as a matter of law tle taxpayers in these cases were

LUSTHAUS v. COMMISSIONER.
280

Syllabus.

liable for the taxes assessed against them, including the
deficiency assessments; and, therefore, in my opinion the
Tax Court is not free in these or substantially similar circumstances to draw either the contrary conclusion or opposing ones. While it is not strictly necessary to express
this opinion in these cases in view of the Tax Court's consistent conclusions of liability, it is inconceivable to me
that the two cases, consistently with the federal tax law,
could be decided the other way or with different outcomes
on the facts presented. Being of this opinion, I consider
the failure to state it could only tend to perpetuate a source
of possible confusion for the future.
LUSTHAUS v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 263.

Argued January 10, 1946.-Decided February 25, 1946.

Petitioner owned and operated a retail furniture business with two
stores. His wife helped in the stores, when needed, without compensation. She owned property valued at $50,000 or more. Finding himself confronted with prospects of large profits and correspondingly large income taxes, petitioner, in consultation with his
accountant and attorney, worked out a plan for a husband-wife
partnership. The wife had little to do with the transaction and
testified that "on the advice of counsel I did what he told me
to-do." Petitioner executed a bill of sale by which he purported to
sell his wife a half interest in the business for $105,253.81, receiving
in return a check for $50,253.81 and eleven notes of $5,000 each.
Petitioner borrowed $25,000 from a bank; gave his wife a check
for $50,000, on which he paid a gift tax; and, upon receipt of her
check, repaid the $25,000 bank loan. The wife executed a partnership agreement undertaking to share profits and losses with her
husband. A certificate authorizing the conduct of the business
as a partnership was obtained from the State. The wife continued
to help out in the stores when she was needed; but petitioner
retained full control of the management of the business, the wife

