540

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

immunity or priority rather strictly.1 The Government
here sought neither immunity nor priority. Its right to
counterclaim rests on different principles, one of which
was graphically expressed by the sponsors of the Act of
which ยง 250 (2) is a part: It is "as much the duty of the
citizen to pay the Government as it is the duty of the

Government to pay the citizen." 58 Cong. Globe 1674,
April 15, 1862, 37th Cong., 2d Sess.

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

MACAULEY,
UNITED

ACTING

STATES

CHAIRMAN

MARITIME

OF

THE

COMMISSION,

ET AL. v. WATERMAN STEAMSHIP CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 435. Argued February 27, 28, 1946.-Decided March 25, 1946.
The Maritime Commission Price Adjustment Board notified respondent that it had been assigned to renegotiate respondent's war contracts with the Commission pursuant to the Renegotiation Act and
requested respondent to attend an initial conference and to supply
information. Respondent denied the Board's authority on the
ground that its contracts were with a British ministry and not with
the Maritime Commission. The Board replied that, although signed
by a British ministry, they had been negotiated by the Maritime
Commission on behalf of the United States, which was responsible
for the obligations incurred, and that, therefore, they were subject
to renegotiation. Respondent refused to furnish the information
requested and brought suit in a district court for a declaratory
judgment that the contracts were not subject to the Renegotiation
1

Sloan Shipyards Corp. v. U. S. Fleet Corp., 258 U. S. 549; Keifer
& Keifer v. Reconstruction Finance Corp., 306 U. S. 381; Reconstruction Finance Corp. v. J. G. Menihan Corp., 312 U. S. 81.

MACAULEY v. WATERMAN S. S. CORP.
540

541

Counsel for Parties.

Act and an injunction against further renegotiation proceedings.
Held:
1. The District Court was without jurisdiction, because respondent
had not exhausted the administrative remedies provided in the
Renegotiation Act. Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 303
U. S. 41. P. 543.
2. Under ยง 403 (e) (1) of the Renegotiation Act, which permits
contractors aggrieved by an order of an adjustment board to petition the Tax Court for a redetermination and gives that court
exclusive jurisdiction "to finally determine the amount, if any, of
such excessive profits," the Tax Court has authority to decide questions of coverage. P. 544.
3. The facts that wilful failure to comply with the adjustment
board's request for information would subject the contractor to
penalties under the Act, that the Chairman of the Commission and
the Tax Court can enforce their orders without court proceedings,
that the Act specifically provides that the Tax Court's determination
is not subject to court review, and that, even if the contractor could
have resort to the courts after a Tax Court determination, it would
be subjected to a multiplicity of suits to recover on the contracts, do
not affect the application of the rule requiring exhaustion of
administrative remedies. P. 545.
151 F. 2d 292, reversed.

Respondent sued for a declaratory judgment that certain contracts were not subject to the Renegotiation Act
and an injunction prohibiting further renegotiation proceedings. The District Court dismissed the complaint on
the ground that respondent had failed to exhaust its administrative remedies. The Court of Appeals reversed.
151 F. 2d 292.

709.

This Court granted certiorari.

326 U. S.

Reversed, p. 545.

Robert L. Stern argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath, Assist-

ant Attorney General Sonnett, David L. Kreeger and
Joseph B. Goldman.

Bon Geaslin argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK

327 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Renegotiation Act 1 authorizes the Chairman of
the Maritime Commission under certain conditions prescribed by the Act to renegotiate war contracts made with
the Commission for purposes of eliminating excessive
profits. Respondent Waterman Steamship Corporation
brought this suit against the Chairman of the Maritime
Commission and the Maritime Commission Price Adjustment Board seeking a declaratory judgment that certain
contracts to which it was a party were not subject to the
Renegotiation Act and an injunction prohibiting further
renegotiation proceedings involving these contracts. The
complaint alleged the following facts here relevant: The
Maritime Commission Price Adjustment Board notified
Waterman that it had been assigned to renegotiate Waterman's contracts with the Commission and to determine
the amount of excessive profits, if any, realized by Waterman. Waterman was requested to attend an initial conference and to supply information concerning these contracts, which included certain Red Sea charters. Waterman in his reply to the Board denied its authority to
renegotiate the Red Sea charters on the ground that these
had been made with the British Ministry of War Transport and not with the Maritime Commission. The Price
Adjustment Board in its answer to Waterman insisted
that while the Red Sea charters were signed by the British
Ministry for "technical reasons," they had been negotiated
with Waterman by the Maritime Commission on behalf
of the United States Government which was now responsible for paying the obligations incurred, and that they
were therefore renegotiable contracts with the Commission.' Respondent refused to furnish the information re156 Stat. 226, 245; 56 Stat. 798, 982; 57 Stat. 347; 57 Stat. 564;
58 Stat. 21, 78.
2 Part of the Price Adjustment Board letter read as follows:
"On April 30, 1941 the President wrote the Chairman of the Maritime Commission and directed him 'as part of the defense effort to

MACAULEY v. WATERMAN S. S. CORP. 543
540

Opinion of the Court.

quested and brought this suit in the District Court. That
court, relying on Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp.,

303 U. S. 41, dismissed the complaint on the ground that
Waterman had failed to exhaust the administrative remedies provided by Congress in the Renegotiation Act. The
Court of Appeals reversed. 151 F. 2d 292. We granted
certiorari because of the importance of the question
involved.
The District Court properly held that this case should
be dismissed on the authority of Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 303 U. S. 41. In that case the employer
sought to enjoin officials of the National Labor Relations
Board from holding hearings on the ground that the business was not covered by the National Labor Relations Act.
This Court held that the injunction could not be issued.
It pointed out that the exclusive "power 'to prevent any
person from engaging in any unfair practice affecting
commerce' . . . [had] been vested by Congress in the

Board," 303 U. S. at 48, and concluded that to grant the
injunction would violate the "long settled rule of judicial
administration that no one is entitled to judicial relief for
a supposed or threatened injury until the prescribed administrative remedy has been exhausted." Under this
which this country is committed' to secure the service of at least
2,000,000 tons of merchant shipping. Pursuant to this direction, the
Commission negotiated with the vessel owners. The vessels were
made available, a charter party was signed with the British Ministry
of War Transport for technical reasons but the commission agreed to
pay the vessel owner the agreed compensation for the use of the
vessel. This arrangement was evidenced by correspondence between
the Commission and the vessel owner.
"There appears to have been mutuality of understanding among
all the parties interested, legality of consideration and definit'ness
[sic] as to terms, time of performance and acceptance. Payment
was made in due course as agreed and this payment constitutes a
part of the cost of the war to the people of the United States."

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

rule the District Court here too lacked power to grant an
injunction.
Just as in the Myers case, the claim here is that the
contracts are not covered by the applicable statute. And
the applicable statute, the Renegotiation Act, like the
National Labor Relations Act in the Myers case, empowers
administrative bodies to rule on the question of coverage.
The Renegotiation Act authorizes the Chairman of the
Maritime Commission to conduct investigations in the
first instance to determine whether excessive profits had
been made on contracts with the Commission. A contractor aggrieved by the Chairman's determination of
excessive profits may have them redetermined in a "de
novo" proceeding before the Tax Court. Section 403
(e) (1) of the Act provides that the Tax Court "shall have
exclusive jurisdiction, by order, to finally determine the
amount, if any, of such excessive profits . . ." Contrary
to respondent's contention that this language limits the
Tax Court's jurisdiction so as not to include the power to
decide questions of coverage, we think the language shows
that the Tax Court has such power. For a decision as to
what are and are not negotiable contracts is an essential
part in determining the amount of a contractor's excessive
profits. The legislative history of the Renegotiation Act,
moreover, shows that Congress intended the Tax Court to
have exclusive jurisdiction to decide questions of fact and
law,' which latter include the issue raised here of whether
the contracts in question are subject to the Act. In order
to grant the injunction sought the District Court would
have to decide this issue in the first instance. Whether it
ever can do so or not, it cannot now decide questions of
coverage when the administrative agencies authorized to
do so have not yet made their determination. Here, just
8 One of the sponsors of the Renegotiation Act in the House ex-

plained the Bill as providing that the Tax Court could make decisions
on all "questions of fact and law . . ." 90 Cong. Rec. 1355.

MACAULEY v. WATERMAN S. S. CORP.
540

545

Opinion of the Court.

as in the Myers case, the administrative process, far
from being exhausted, had hardly begun. The District
Court consequently was correct in holding that it lacked
jurisdiction to act.'
Respondent urges several grounds for not applying the
rule of the Myers case here. It points out that wilful
failure to comply with the Adjustment Board's request
for information would subject it to penalties under the
Act; that the Chairman of the Commission and the Tax
Court can enforce their orders without court enforcement
proceedings; that the Act specifically provides that the
Tax Court's determination is not subject to court review;
and that, even if respondent could, subsequent to a Tax
Court determination, have resort to the courts, it would
be subjected to a multiplicity of suits in order to recover
the money due on the contracts. Even if one or all of
these things might possibly occur in the future, that possibility does not affect the application of the rule requiring exhaustion of administrative remedies. The District
Court had no power to determine in this proceeding and
at this time issues that might arise because of these future
contingencies. Its judgment dismissing the complaint
was correct. The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
MR. JUsTicn DOUGLAS concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
4 The same principles which justified dismissal of the cause insofar
as it sought injunction justified denial of the prayer for a declaratory
judgment. Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. v. Huffman, 319 U. S.
293, 299; Coffman v. Breeze Corporations,323 U. S. 316; Alabama
State Federation of Labor v. McAdory, 325 U. S. 450; Brillhart v.
Excess Ins. Co., 316 U. S. 491, 494, 499.

