OCTOBER TERM, 1945.

304

Syllabus.

327 U. S.

husband in fact or in law retained any power to deprive
the wife of any part of her contribution to the capital or
her share of income derived from it. Two right steps do
not make a wrong one. From these facts the intention to
form a partnership must be inferred. Upon this record
the tax advantage to the husband resulting from his gift
of income-producing property is lawful because the gift
was lawful and therefore effective to bestow on the wife
the income thereafter derived from property which was
her own.
The judgment should be reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE joins in this dissent.
DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU, SHERIFF.
NO.

14.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued December 7, 1945.-Decided February 25, 1946.
1. Section 67 of the Hawaiian Organic Act, 31 Stat. 141, 153, authorizing the Territorial Governor, in case of rebellion or invasion, or
imminent danger thereof, when the public safety requires it, to
suspend the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus or "place the
Territory . . . under martial law," did not give the armed forces,

during a period of martial law, power to supplant all civilian laws
and to substitute military for judicial trials of civilians not charged
with violations of the law of war, in territory of the United States
not recently regained from an enemy, at a time when the dangers
apprehended by the military are not sufficient to cause them to
require civilians to evacuate the area and it is not impossible for
the civilian government and the courts to function. Pp. 313, 324.
(a) Although part of the language of § 67 of the Organic Act
is identical with a part of the language of the original Constitution
of Hawaii, Congress did not intend to adopt the decision of the
Supreme Court of Hawaii in In re Kalanianaole, 10 Hawaii 29,
sustaining military trials of civilians in Hawaii without adequate
court review during periods of insurrection. P. 316.
*Together with No. 15, White v. Steer, Provost Marshal, on certiorari to the same court, argued and decided on the same dates.

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

Statement of the Case.

(b) When the Organic Act is read as a whole and in the light
of its legislative history, it is clear that Congress intended that
civilians in Hawaii should be entitled to constitutional protection,
including the guarantee of a fair trial, to the same extent as those
who live in any other part of our country. Pp. 316-319.
(c) Our system of government is the antithesis of total military
rule and its founders are not likely to have contemplated complete
military dominance within the limits of a territory made a part of
this country and not recently taken from an enemy. P. 322.
(d) When Congress passed the Organic Act and authorized the
establishment of "martial law" it had in mind, and did not wish
to exceed, the boundaries between military and civilian power,
in which our people have always believed, which responsible military and executive officers had heeded, and which had become part
of our political philosophy and institutions. Pp. 319-324.
(e) The phrase "martial law," as employed in that Act, while
intended to authorize the military to act vigorously for the maintenance of an orderly civil government and for the defense of the
islands against actual or threatened rebellion or invasion, was not
intended to authorize the supplanting of courts by military tribunals. Pp. 319-324.
2. Petitioners, two civilians who were unlawfully tried, convicted
and imprisoned by military tribunals in Hawaii during a period
of martial law when the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus had
been suspended, are entitled to their freedom on writs of habeas
corpus-at least after the privilege of the writ had been restored.
Pp. 312, n. 5, 324.
146 F. 2d 576, reversed.

No. 14. Petitioner, a civilian shipfitter employed in
the Navy Yard at Honolulu, was arrested by military
authorities and tried and sentenced to imprisonment by
a military tribunal for assaulting two Marine sentries on
duty at the Navy Yard in violation of a military order
more than two years after the attack on Pearl Harbor.
At that time, schools, bars and motion picture theatres
had been reopened and the courts had been authorized
to exercise their normal functions, with certain exceptions,
one being that only military tribunals were permitted
to*try criminal prosecutions for violations of military
orders.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Counsel for Parties.

327 U. S.

No. 15. Petitioner, a civilian stockbroker in Honolulu
having no connection with the armed forces, was arrested
by military police more than eight months after the attack on Pearl Harbor on a charge of embezzling stock
belonging to another civilian in violation of the laws of
Hawaii. He was tried, convicted and sentenced to imprisonment by a military tribunal at a time when the
courts were open and functioning to a limited extent "as
agents of the Military Governor."
Both petitioned the district court for writs of habeas
corpus, challenging the validity of their trials and convictions by military tribunals under a state of "martial
law" which had been declared on the day of the attack
on Pearl Harbor. After separate trials, the district court
found that the courts had always been able to function,
but for military orders closing them, and that there was
no military necessity for the trial of petitioners by military tribunals rather than by regular courts. It held
the trials void and ordered the release of petitioners. The
circuit court of appeals reversed. 146 F. 2d 476. This
Court granted certiorari. 324 U. S. 833. Reversed, p. 324.
J. Garner Anthony argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner in No. 14. Osmond K. Fraenkel argued the
cause, and Fred Patterson filed a brief, for petitioner in
No. 15.
Edward J. Ennis argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath,
The Judge Advocate General of the Army, Ralph F.
Fuchs, William J. Hughes, Jr., Eugene V. Slattery and
Angus Taylor.
By special leave of Court, C. Nils Tavares, Attorney
General of Hawaii, argued the cause for the Bar Association of Hawaii et al., as amici curiae, urging reversal.
With him on the brief were Heaton L. Wrenn and J.
Russell Cades.

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

Opinion of the Court.

Bartley C. Crum, Edwin Borchard, Thurman Arnold,
Pierce Butler, Winthrop Wadleigh, Osmond K. Fraenkel
and Arthur Garfield Hays filed a brief for the American
Civil Liberties Union, as amicus curiae, in support of
petitioners.
MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The petitioners in these cases were sentenced to prison
by military tribunals in Hawaii. Both are civilians. The
question before us is whether the military tribunals had
power to do this. The United States district court for
Hawaii in habeas corpus proceedings held that the military
tribunals had no such power and ordered that they be set
free. The circuit court of appeals reversed, and ordered
that the petitioners be returned to prison. 146 F. 2d 576.
Both cases thus involve the rights of individuals charged
with crime and not connected with the armed forces to
have their guilt or innocence determined in courts of law
which provide established procedural safeguards, rather
than by military tribunals which fail to afford many of
these safeguards. Since these judicial safeguards are
prized privileges of our system of government we granted
certiorari.
The following events led to the military tribunals' exercise of jurisdiction over the petitioners. On December 7,
1941, immediately following the surprise air attack by the
Japanese on Pearl Harbor, the Governor of Hawaii by
proclamation undertook to suspend the privilege of the
writ of habeas corpus and to place the Territory under
"martial law." Section 67 of the Hawaiian Organic Act,
31 Stat. 141, 153,1 authorizes the Territorial Governor to
1 "That the governor shall be responsible for the faithful execution
of the laws of the United States and of the Territory of Hawaii within
the said Territory, and whenever it becomes necessary he may call
upon the commanders of the military and naval forces of the United
States in the Territory of Hawaii, or summon the posse comitatus, or

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

take this action "in case of rebellion or invasion, or imminent danger thereof, when the public safety requires
it . . ." His action was to remain in effect only "until
communication can be had with the President and his decision thereon made known." The President approved the
Governor's action on December 9th 2 The Governor's
proclamation also authorized and requested the Commanding General, "during the . . . emergency and until
danger of invasion is removed, to exercise all the powers
normally exercised" by the Governor and by the "judicial
officers and employees of this territory."
Pursuant to this authorization the commanding general
immediately proclaimed himself Military Governor and
undertook the defense of the Territory and the maintenance of order. On December 8th, both civil and criminal
courts were forbidden to summon jurors and witnesses and
to try cases. The Commanding General established military tribunals to take the place of the courts. These were
to try civilians charged with violating the laws of the
United States and of the Territory, and rules, regulations,
orders or policies of the Military Government. Rules of
evidence and procedure of courts of law were not to control the military trials. In imposing penalties the milicall out the militia of the Territory to prevent or suppress lawless
violence, invasion, insurrection, or rebellion in said Territory, and he
may, in case of rebellion or invasion, or imminent danger thereof, when
the public safety requires it, suspend the privilege of the writ of habeas
corpus, or place the Territory, or any part thereof, under martial law
until communication can be had with the President and his decision
thereon made known."
2 The district court heard much evidence and from it found as follows on this subject: "By radio the Governor of Hawaii on December
7, 1941, notified the President of the United States simply that he had
placed the Territory under martial law and suspended the writ. The
President's approval was requested and it was granted by radio on
December 8, 1941. Not until 1943 was the text of the Governor's
December 7 proclamation furnished Washington officials, and it is still
doubtful if it has yet been seen by the President."

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

Opinion of the Court.

tary tribunals were to be "guided by, but not limited to
the penalties authorized by the courts martial manual,
the laws of the United States, the Territory of Hawaii,
the District of Columbia, and the customs of war in like
cases." The rule announced was simply that punishment
was to be "commensurate with the offense committed"
and that the death penalty might be imposed "in appropriate cases." Thus the military authorities took over
the government of Hawaii. They could and did, by
simply promulgating orders, govern the day to day activities of civilians who lived, worked, or were merely passing
through there. The military tribunals interpreted the
very orders promulgated by the military authorities andproceeded to punish violators. The sentences imposed
were not subject to direct appellate court review, since
it had long been established that military tribunals are
not part of our judicial system. Ex parte Vallandigham,
1 Wall. 243. The military undoubtedly assumed that its
rule was not subject to any judicial control whatever,
for by orders issued on August 25, 1943, it prohibited even
accepting of a petition for writ of habeas corpus by a
judge or judicial employee or the filing of such a petition
by a prisoner or his attorney. Military tribunals could
punish violators of these orders by fine, imprisonment or
death.
White, the petitioner in No. 15, was a stockbroker in
Honolulu. Neither he nor his business was connected
with the armed forces. On August 20, 1942, more than
eight months after the Pearl Harbor attack, the military
police arrested him. The charge against him was embezzling stock belonging to another civilian in violation
of Chapter 183 of the Revised Laws of Hawaii. Though
by the time of White's arrest the courts were permitted
''as agents of the Military Governor" to dispose of some
non-jury civil cases, they were still forbidden to summon
jurors and to exercise criminal jurisdiction. On August

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

22nd, White was brought before a military tribunal designated as a "Provost Court." The "Court" orally informed him of the charge. He objected to the tribunal's
jurisdiction but the objection was overruled. He demanded to be tried by a jury. This request was denied.
His attorney asked for additional time to prepare the case.
This was refused. On August 25th he was tried and convicted. The tribunal sentenced him to five years imprisonment. Later the sentence was reduced to four years.
Duncan, the petitioner in No. 14, was a civilian shipfitter
employed in the Navy Yard at Honolulu. On February
24, 1944, more than two years and two months after the
Pearl Harbor attack, he engaged in a brawl with two armed
Marine sentries at the yard. He was arrested by the military authorities. By the time of his arrest the military
had to some extent eased the stringency of military rule.
Schools, bars and motion picture theatres had been reopened. Courts had been authorized to "exercise their
normal jurisdiction." They were once more summoning
jurors and witnesses and conducting criminal trials. There
were important exceptions, however. One of these was
that only military tribunals were to try "Criminal prosecutions for violations of military orders." ' As the record
shows, these military orders still covered a wide range of
day to day civilian conduct. Duncan was charged with
violating one of these orders, paragraph 8.01, Title 8, of
General Order No. 2, which prohibited assault on military
or naval personnel with intent to resist or hinder them in
3 In addition, § 3 of a Proclamation of February 8, 1943, which returned some power to the civil authorities, had reserved a right in the
Military Governor to resume any or all of the powers returned to
the civilian government. In approving this Proclamation the President had expressed his confidence that the Military would "refrain
from exercising . . . authority over . . . normally civil functions"
and his hope that there would "be a further restoration of civil authority as and when the situation permits."

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU."
304

Opinion of the Court.

the discharge of their duty. He was, therefore, tried by
a military tribunal rather than the territorial court, although the general laws of Hawaii made assault a crime.
Revised L. H. 1935, ch. 166. A conviction followed and
Duncan was sentenced to six months imprisonment.
Both White and Duncan challenged the power of the
military tribunals to try them by petitions for writs of
habeas corpus filed in the district court for Hawaii on
March 14 and April 14, 1944, respectively. Their petitions urged both statutory and constitutional grounds.
The court issued orders to show cause. Returns to these
orders contended that Hawaii had become part of an
active theatre of war constantly threatened by invasion
from without; that the writ of habeas corpus had therefore properly been suspended and martial law had validly
been established in accordance with the provisions of the
Organic Act; that consequently the district court did not
have jurisdiction to issue the writ; and that the trials
of petitioners by military tribunals pursuant to orders
by the Military Governor issued because of military necessity were valid. Each petitioner filed a traverse to the
returns, which traverse challenged among other things
the suspension of habeas corpus, the establishment of
martial law and the validity of the Military Governor's
orders, asserting that such action could not be taken
except when required by military necessity due to actual
or threatened invasion, which even if it did exist on December 7, 1941, did not exist when the petitioners were
tried; and that, whatever the necessity for martial law,
there was no justification for trying them in military
tribunals rather than the regular courts of law. The
district court, after separate trials, found in each case,
among other things, that the courts had always been able
to function but for the military orders closing them, and
that consequently there was no military necessity for the
trial of petitioners by military tribunals rather than regu-

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

lar courts.' It accordingly held the trials void and ordered
the release of the petitioners.
The circuit court of appeals, assuming without deciding
that the district court had jurisdiction to entertain the
petitions, held the military trials valid and reversed the
ruling of the district court. 146 F. 2d 576. It held that
the military orders providing for military trials were fully
authorized by § 67 of the Organic Act and the Governor's
actions taken under it. The court relied on that part of
the section which, as we have indicated, authorizes the
Governor with the approval of the President to proclaim
"martial law" whenever the public safety requires it. The
circuit court thought that the term "martial law" as used
in the Act denotes among other things the establishment
of a "total military government" completely displacing
or subordinating the regular courts, that the decision of
the executive as to what the public safety requires must
be sustained so long as that decision is based on reasonable
grounds and that such reasonable grounds did exist.
In presenting its argument before this Court the Government for reasons set out in the margin I abandons its
contention as to the suspension of the writ of habeas
corpus and advances the argument employed by the circuit court for sustaining the trials and convictions of the
petitioners by military tribunals. The petitioners contend that "martial law" as provided for by § 67 did not
authorize the military to try and punish civilians such as
petitioners and urge further that if such authority should
4 We do not set out the other grounds of challenge since under the
view we take we do not reach them.
5
The Government points out that since the privilege of the writ
was restored and martial law terminated by Presidential Proclamation
on October 24, 1944, petitioners are entitled to their liberty if the
military tribunals were without jurisdiction to try them. We therefore do hot pass upon the validity of the order suspending the privilege of habeas corpus or the power of the military to detain persons
under other circumstances and conditions.

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKIU.
304

313

Opinion of the Court.

be inferred from the Organic Act, it would be unconstitutional. We need decide the constitutional question
only if we agree with the Government that Congress did
authorize what was done here.
Did the Organic Act during the period of martial law
give the armed forces power to supplant all civilian laws
and to substitute military for judicial trials under the
conditions that existed in Hawaii at the time these petitioners were tried? The relevant conditions, for our purposes, were the same when both petitioners were tried.
The answer to the question depends on a correct interpretation of the Act. But we need not construe the Act, insofar as the power of the military might be used to meet
other and different conditions and situations. The boundaries of the situation with reference to which we do interpret the scope of the Act can be more sharply defined
by stating at this point some different conditions which
either would or might conceivably have affected to a
greater or lesser extent the scope of the authorized military power. We note first that at the time the alleged
offenses were committed the dangers apprehended by the
military were not sufficiently imminent to cause them to
require civilians to evacuate the area or even to evacuate
any of the buildings necessary to carry on the business
of the courts. In fact, the buildings had long been open
and actually in use for certain kinds of trials. Our question does not involve the well-established power of the
military to exercise jurisdiction over members of the armed
forces, 6 those directly connected with such forces,7 or
enemy belligerents, prisoners of war, or others charged
6 Wilkes v. Dinsman, 7 How. 89; Ex parte Reed, 100 U. S. 13;
Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19; In re Grimley, 137 U. S. 147; Johnson
v. Sayre, 158 U. S. 109; Carter v. McClaughry, 183 U. S. 365.
7 Ex parte Gerlach, 247 F. 616; Ex parte Falls,251 F. 415; Ex parte
Jochen,257 F. 200; Hines v. Mikell, 259 F. 28. See cases and statutes
collected and discussed in Underhill, infra, note 11, 12 Cal. L. Rev.
81-98.

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

with violating the laws of war.8 We are not concerned
with the recognized power of the military to try civilians
in tribunals established as a part of a temporary military
government over occupied enemy territory or territory
regained from an enemy where civilian government cannot and does not function.9 For Hawaii since annexation
has been held by and loyal to the United States. Nor need
we here consider the power of the military simply to arrest
and detain civilians interfering with a necessary military
function at a time of turbulence and danger from insurrection or war. ° And finally, there was no specialized
effort of the military, here, to enforce orders which related
only to military functions, such as, for illustration, curfew
rules or blackouts. For these petitioners were tried before
tribunals set up under a military program which took over
all government and superseded all civil laws and courts.
If the Organic Act, properly interpreted, did not give the
armed forces this awesome power, both petitioners are
entitled to their freedom.
I.
In interpreting the Act we must first look to its language. Section 67 makes it plain that Congress did in8

Ex parte Quirn, 317 U. S. 1; In re Yamashita, 327 U. S. 1. See 10
U. S. C. §§ 1553, 1554. See also cases and statutes collected and discussed in Underhill, infra, note 11, 12 Cal. L. Rev. 81-98.
9 Cross v. Harrison, 16 How. 164; Leitensdorfer v. Webb, 20 How.
176; The Prize Cases, 2 Black 635; Mrs. Alexander's Cotton, 2 Wall.
404; Ford v. Surget, 97 U. S. 594, 604; New Orleans v. Steamship
Co., 20 Wall. 387, 393; Dow v. Johnson, 100 U. S. 158, 166; The
Grapeshot, 9 Wall. 129; Mechanics' & Traders' Bank v. Union Bank,
22 Wall. 276. Nor is this a case where violators of military orders are
to be tried by regular courts. Cf. Hirabayashi v. United States, 320

U.S. 81.
" Moyer v. Peabody, 212 U. S. 78; Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2,
125, 126; Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1, 45, 46; see Sterling v. Constantin, 287 U. S. 378, 400; Fairman, The Law of Martial Rule, Chicago

1943,. 209-218.

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

Opinion of the Court.

tend the Governor of Hawaii, with the approval of the
President, to invoke military aid under certain circumstances. But Congress did not specifically state to what
extent the army could be used or what power it could
exercise. It certainly did not explicitly declare that the
Governor in conjunction with the military could for days,
months or years close all the courts and supplant them
with military tribunals. Cf. Coleman v. Tennessee, 97
U. S. 509, 514. If a power thus to obliterate the judicial
system of Hawaii can be found at all in the Organic Act,
it must be inferred from § 67's provision for placing the
Territory under "martial law." But the term "martial
law" carries no precise meaning. The Constitution does
not refer to "martial law" at all and no Act of Congress
has defined the term. It has been employed in various
ways by different people and at different times. By some
it has been identified as "military law" limited to members of, and those connected with, the armed forces.
Others have said that the term does not imply a system
of established rules but denotes simply some kind of day
to day expression of a general's will dictated by what he
considers the imperious necessity of the moment. See
United States v. Diekelman, 92 U. S. 520, 526. In 1857
the confusion as to the meaning of the phrase was so
great that the Attorney General in an official opinion had
this to say about it: "The common law authorities and
commentators afford no clue to what martial law, as understood in England, really is . . . In this country it is
still worse." 8 Op. Atty. Gen. 365, 367, 368. What was
true in 1857 remains true today.1 The language of § 67
"For discussions of the great contrast of views see the following
writings: Fairman, supra, Ch. II; Wiener, A Practical Manual of
Martial Law, Harrisburg 1940, Ch. 1; Military Aid to the Civil Power,
Fort Leavenworth 1925, pp. 230-232; Underhill, Jurisdiction of Military Tribunals in the United States over Civilians (1924) 12 Cal. L.
Rev. 75, 163-178; Ballentine, Qualified Martial Law (1915) 14 Mich.
L. Rev. 102, 203, 204; Max Radin, MartialLaw and the State of Siege
(1942) 30 Cal. L. Rev. 634.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

thus fails to define adequately the scope of the power
given to the military and to show whether the Organic
Act provides that courts of law be supplanted by military tribunals.
II.
Since the Act's language does not provide a satisfactory
answer, we look to the legislative history for possible
further aid in interpreting the term "martial law" as used
in the statute. The Government contends that the legislative history shows that Congress intended to give the
armed forces extraordinarily broad powers to try civilians
before military tribunals. Its argument is as follows:
That portion of the language of § 67 which prescribes the
prerequisites to declaring martial law is identical with a
part of the language of the original Constitution of Hawaii.
Before Congress enacted the Organic Act the supreme
court of Hawaii had construed that language as giving the
Hawaiian President power to authorize military tribunals
to try civilians charged with crime whenever the public
safety required it. In re Kalanianaole, 10 Hawaii 29.
When Congress passed the Organic Act it simply enacted
the applicable language of the Hawaiian Constitution and
with it the interpretation of that language by the Hawaiian
supreme court.
In disposing of this argument we wish to point out at
the outset that even had Congress intended the decision in
the Kalanianaolecase to become part of the Organic Act,
that case did not go so far as to authorize military trials
of the petitioners for these reasons. There the defendants
were insurrectionists taking part in the very uprising
which the military were to suppress, while here the petitioners had no connection with any organized resistance to
the armed forces or the established government. If, on the
other hand, we should take the Kalanianaolecase to authorize the complete supplanting of courts by military

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

Opinion of the Court.

tribunals, we are certain that Congress did not wish to
make that case part of the Organic Act. For that case did
not merely uphold military trials of civilians but also
held that courts were to interfere only when there was an
obvious abuse of discretion which resulted in cruel and
inhuman practices or the establishment of military rule for
the personal gain of the President and the armed forces.
But courts were not to review whether the President's
action, no matter how unjustifiable, was necessary for the
public safety. As we shall indicate later, military trials of
civilians charged with crime, especially when not made
subject to judicial review, are so obviously contrary to our
political traditions and our institution of jury trials in
courts of law, that the tenuous circumstance offered by
the Government can hardly suffice to persuade us that
Congress was willing to enact a Hawaiian supreme court
decision permitting such a radical departure from our
steadfast beliefs. 2
Partly in order to meet this objection the Government
further contends that Congress, in enacting the Kalanianaole case, not only authorized military trials of civilians
in Hawaii, but also could and intended to provide that
''martial law" in Hawaii should not be limited by the
United States Constitution or by established constitutional practice. But when the Organic Act is read as a
whole and in the light of its legislative history it becomes
clear that Congress did not intend the Constitution to
have a limited application to Hawaii. Along with § 67
Congress enacted § 5 of the Organic Act which provides
"that the Constitution . . . shall have the same force
and effect within the said Territory as elsewhere in the
United States . . ." 31 Stat. 141. Even when Hawaii
12 We point out in this connection that by § 83 of the Organic Act
Congress provided how juries should be constituted and provided for
the drawing of grand juries and for unanimous jury verdicts in criminal cases. 31 Stat. 141, 157.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

was first annexed Congress had provided that the Territory's existing laws should remain in effect unless contrary to the Constitution. 30 Stat. 750. And the House
Committee Report in explaining § 5 of the Organic Act
stated: "Probably the same result would obtain without
this provision under section 1891, chapter 1, Title XXIII,
of the Revised Statutes, but to prevent possible question,
the section is inserted in the bill." 1 (Italics supplied.)
Congress thus expressed a strong desire to apply the Constitution without qualification.
It follows that civilians in Hawaii are entitled to the
constitutional guarantee of a fair trial to the same extent
as those who live in any other part of our country. We
are aware that conditions peculiar to Hawaii might imperatively demand extraordinarily speedy and effective
measures in the event of actual or threatened invasion.
But this also holds true for other parts of the United
States. Extraordinary measures in Hawaii, however
necessary, are not supportable on the mistaken premise
that Hawaiian inhabitants are less entitled to constitutional protection than others. For here Congress did not
in the Organic Act exercise whatever power it might have
"I Government for the Territory of Hawaii, H. Rep. No. 305, 56th
Cong., 1st Sess., p. 10. In the House, Representative Knox, the Republican leader for the bill, stated: "This bill, in so many words,
extends the Constitution to Hawaii; so that there has not been practically a moment of time since the Hawaiian Islands were annexed
to the United States that the Constitution has not been the standard
by which all the laws of that country must be measured .

.

. The

decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States will be equally
operative in Hawaii as in any-portion of the United States as to any
constitutional right which he possesses." 33 Cong. Rec. 3704, 3709
(1900). See the following decisions of this Court relating to the
applicability of the Constitution to United States Territories. Hawaii
v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197; Rassmussen v. United States, 197 U. S.
516; Farrington v. Tokushige, 273 U. S. 284. See also Frank, Ex
parte Milligan v. The Five Companies: MartialLaw in Hawaii (1944)
44 Col. L. Rev. 639, 658-660.

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

Opinion of the Court.

had to limit the application of the Constitution. Cf. HRawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197. The people of Hawaii
are therefore entitled to constitutional protectioni to the
same extent as the inhabitants of the 48 States. And
Congress did not enact the Hawaiian supreme court's decision in the Kalanianaole case and thus authorize the
military trials of petitioners. Whatever power the Organic Act gave the Hawaiian military authorities, such
power must therefore be construed in the same way as a
grant of power to troops stationed in any one of the States.
III.
Since both the language of the Organic Act and its legislative history fail to indicate that the scope of "martial
law" in Hawaii includes the supplanting of courts by military tribunals, we must look to other sources in order to
interpret that term. We think the answer may be found
in the birth, development and growth of our governmental
institutions up to the time Congress passed the Organic
Act. Have the principles and practices developed during
the birth and growth of our political institutions been such
as to persuade us that Congress intended that loyal civilians in loyal territory should have their daily conduct governed by military orders substituted for criminal laws, and
that such civilians should be tried and punished by military tribunals? Let us examine what those principles and
practices have been, with respect to the position of civilian government and the courts and compare that with the
standing of military tribunals throughout our history.
People of many ages and countries have feared and
unflinchingly opposed the kind of subordination of executive, legislative and judicial authorities to complete military rule which, according to the Government, Congress
has authorized here. In this country that fear has become part of our cultural and political institutions. The
story of that development is well known and we see no

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

need to retell it all. But we might mention a few pertinent incidents. As early as the 17th Century our British
ancestors took political action against aggressive military
rule. When James I and Charles I authorized martial law
for purposes of speedily punishing all types of crimes committed by civilians the protest led to the historic Petition
of Right "1which in uncompromising terms objected to
this arbitrary procedure and prayed that it be stopped
and never repeated.'
When later the American colonies
declared their independence one of the grievances listed
by Jefferson was that the King had endeavored to render
the military superior to the civil power. The executive and
military officials who later found it necessary to utilize the
armed forces to keep order in a young and turbulent nation, did not lose sight of the philosophy embodied in the
Petition of Right and the Declaration of Independence,
that existing civilian government and especially the courts
were not to be interfered with by the exercise of military
power. In 1787, the year in which the Constitution was
formulated, the Governor of Massachusetts Colony used
the militia to cope with Shay's Rebellion. In his instructions to the Commander of the troops the Governor listed
the "great objects" of the mission. The troops were to
"protect the judicial courts . . .," "to assist the civil
magistrates in executing the laws . . .," and to "aid them
in apprehending the disturbers of the public peace . . ."
The Commander was to consider himself "constantly as
under the direction of the civil officer, saving where any
armed force shall appear and oppose . . . [his] marching
to execute these orders." " President Washington's in3 Chas. I, c. 1.
" Hallam, Constitutional History, (2d ed.) Vol. I, c. vii, pp. 531,
532, 533. See also discussions in dissent in Luther v. Borden, 7 How.
1, 48, 63; In re McDonald, 49 Mont. 454, 468, 143 P. 947.
6Federal Aid in Domestic Disturbances, Senate Document No. 263,
67th Cong., 2d Sess., 10.
14

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

Opinion of the Court.

structions to the Commander of the troops sent into Pennsylvania to suppress the Whiskey Rebellion of 1794 were
to the same effect. The troops were to see to it that the
laws were enforced and were to deliver the leaders of
armed insurgents to the regular courts for trial. The
President admonished the Commanding General "that the
judge can not be controlled in his functions . . ."1

In

the many instances of the use of troops to control the
activities of civilians that followed, the troops were generally again employed merely to aid and not to supplant
the civilian authorities. 8 The last noteworthy incident
before the enactment of the Organic Act was the rioting
that occurred in the spring of 1899 at the Coeur d'Alene
mines of Shoshone County, Idaho. The President ordered the regular troops to report to the Governor for
instructions and to support the civil authorities in preserving the peace. Later the State Auditor as agent of
17Id. pp. 31, 32. See also on the same subject the dissent in Luther
v. Borden, supra, 7 How. at 77-81.
18 This appears from the facts related throughout Senate Document
No. 263, 67th Cong., 2d Sess., supra.
After the passing of the Organic Act disturbances in the coal fields
of West Virginia, a longshoremen's strike in Galveston and a packers'
strike in Nebraska City, all led to criminal trials of civilians by military tribunals which were upheld by decisions of state and lower
federal courts. State ex rel. Mays v. Brown, 71 W. Va. 519, 77 S. E.
243; Ex parte Jones, 71 W. Va. 567, 77 S. E. 1029; United States ex
rel. McMaster v. Wolters, 268 F. 69; United States ex rel. Seymour
v. Fischer,280 F. 208. But cf. In re McDonald, 49 Mont. 454. All
these cases rested on the ground that the Governor's determination
of the existence of insurrection conclusively established that all the
Governor had done was legal. The basis of these decisions was definitely held erroneous in Sterling v. Constantin, 287 U. S.378, where
this Court said: "What are the allowable limits of military discretion,
and whether or not they have been overstepped in a particular case,
are judicial questions." 287 U. S. at 401. As one commentator puts
it, this Court "has knocked out the prop" on which these aforementioned cases rested. Wiener, A Practical Manual of Martial Law,
1940, p. 116.

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

327 U. S.

the Governor, and not the Commanding General, ordered
the troops to detain citizens without trial and to aid the
Auditor in doing all he thought necessary to stop the riot."
Once more, the military authorities did not undertake to
supplant the courts and to establish military tribunals to
try and punish ordinary civilian offenders."
Courts and their procedural safeguards are indispensable to our system of government. They were set up by
our founders to protect the liberties they valued. Ex parte
Quirin,317 U. S. 1, 19. Our system of government clearly
is the antithesis of total military rule and the founders of
this country are not likely to have contemplated complete
military dominance within the limits of a territory made
part of this country and not recently taken from an enemy.
They were opposed to governments that placed in the
hands of one man the power to make, interpret and enforce
the laws. Their philosophy has been the people's throughout our history. For that reason we have maintained
legislatures chosen by citizens or their representatives and
courts and juries to try those who violate legislative enactments. We have always been especially concerned about
the potential evils of summary criminal trials and have
guarded against them by provisions embodied in the Constitution itself. See Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2; Chambers v. Florida, 309 U. S. 227. Legislatures and courts
are not merely cherished American institutions; they are
indispensable to our Government.
Military tribunals have no such standing. For as this
Court has said before: ". . . the military should always
19Senate Document No.
2 0Even as late as 1937

263, 67th Cong., 2d Sess., 190 ff., 210 ff.

when the War Department promulgated

regulations concerning the employment of troops in aid of civil authorities, it was aware of this tradition. A. R. 500-50,
7e stated:
Persons not normally subject to military law, taken into custody by the military forces incident to the use of troops contemplated
by these regulations, should be turned over to the civil authorities.
Punishment in such cases belongs to the courts of justice and not to
the armed forces." But cf. A. R. 500-50, 8 (1945).

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

323

Opinion of the Court.

be kept in subjection to the laws of the country to which
it belongs, and that he is no friend to the Republic who
advocates the contrary. The established principle of every
free people is, that the law shall alone govern; and to it the
military must always yield." Dow v. Johnson, 100 U. S.
158, 169. Congress prior to the time of the enactment
of the Organic Act had only once authorized the supplanting of the courts by military tribunals. Legislation to that
effect was enacted immediately after the South's unsuccessful attempt to secede from the Union. Insofar as that
legislation applied to the Southern States after the war
was at an end it was challenged by a series of Presidential
vetoes as vigorous as any in the country's history.' And
in order to prevent this Court from passing on the constitutionality of this legislation Congress found it necessary
21 In one of these vetoes President Johnson said: "The trials having
their origin under this bill are to take place without the intervention
of a jury and without any fixed rules of law or evidence. The rules on
which offenses are to be 'heard and determined' by the numerous agents
are such rules and regulations as the President, through the War Department, shall prescribe. No previous presentment is required nor
any indictment charging the commission of a crime against the laws;
but the trial must proceed on charges and specifications. The punishment will be, not what the law declares, but such as a court-martial
may think proper; and from these arbitrary tribunals there lies no
appeal, no writ of error to any of the courts in which the Constitution
of the United States vests exclusively the judicial power of the country." Messages and Papers of the Presidents, Richardson, Vol. VI,
399. In another he said: "It is plain that the authority here given to
the military officer amounts to absolute despotism. But to make it
still more unendurable, the bill provides that it may be delegated to
as many subordinates as he chooses to appoint, for it declares that he
shall 'punish or cause to be punished.' Such a power has not been
wielded by any monarch in England for more than five hundred
years .... This broad principle limits all our functions and applies
to all subjects. It protects not only the citizens of States which are
within the Union, but it shields every human being who comes or is
brought under our jurisdiction. We have no right to do in one place
more than in another that which the Constitution says we shall not do
at all." Id., pp. 502-503.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
MURPHY, J., concurring.

327 U. S.

to curtail our appellate jurisdiction." Indeed, prior to the
Organic Act, the only time this Court had ever discussed
the supplanting of courts by military tribunals in a situation other than that involving the establishment of a military government over recently occupied enemy territory,
it had emphatically declared that "civil liberty and this
kind of martial law cannot endure together; the antagonism is irreconcilable; and, in the conflict, one or the other
must perish." Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2, 124-125.
We believe that when Congress passed the Hawaiian
Organic Act and authorized the establishment of "martial
law" it had in mind and did not wish to exceed the boundaries between military and civilian power, in which our
people have always believed, which responsible military
and executive officers had heeded, and which had become
part of our political philosophy and institutions prior to
the time Congress passed the Organic Act. The phrase
"martial law" as employed in that Act, therefore, while
intended to authorize the military to act vigorously for
the maintenance of an orderly civil government and
for the defense of the Islands against actual or threatened
rebellion or invasion, was not intended to authorize the
supplanting of courts by military tribunals. Yet the Government seeks to justify the punishment of both White
and Duncan on the ground of such supposed congressional
authorization. We hold that both petitioners are now
entitled to be released from custody.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of these cases.
MR.

JUSTICE MURPHY,

concurring.

The Court's opinion, in which I join, makes clear that
the military trials in these cases were unjustified by the
Ex parte McCardle, 6 Wall. 318. See also Warren, The Supreme
Court in United States History, Vol. 2, 464, 484.
22

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

martial law provisions of the Hawaiian Organic Act.
Equally obvious, as I see it, is the fact that these
trials were forbidden by the Bill of Rights of the Constitution of the United States, which applies in both spirit
and letter to Hawaii. Indeed, the unconstitutionality of
the usurpation of civil power by the military is so great
in this instance as to warrant this Court's complete and
outright repudiation of the action.
Abhorrence of military rule is ingrained in our form of
government. Those who founded this nation knew full
well that the arbitrary power of conviction and punishment for pretended offenses is the hallmark of despotism.
See The Federalist, No. 83. History had demonstrated
that fact to them time and again. They shed their blood
to win independence from a ruler who they alleged was
attempting to render the "Military independent of and
superior to the Civil power" and who was "depriving
us . . . of the benefits of Trial by Jury." In the earliest state constitutions they inserted definite provisions
placing the military under "strict subordination" to the
civil power at all times and in all cases. And in framing
the Bill of Rights of the Federal Constitution they were
careful to make sure that the power to punish would rest
primarily with the civil authorities at all times. They
believed that a trial by an established court, with an impartial jury, was the only certain way to protect an individual against oppression. The Bill of Rights translated
that belief into reality by guaranteeing the observance
of jury trials and other basic procedural rights foreign to
military proceedings. This supremacy of the civil over
the military is one of our great heritages. It has made
possible the attainment of a high degree of liberty regulated by law rather than by caprice. Our duty is to give
effect to that heritage at all times, that it may be handed
down untarnished to future generations.
Such considerations led this Court in Ex parteMilligan,
4 Wall. 2, to lay down the rule that the military lacks

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
MURPHY, J., concurring.

327 U. S.

any constitutional power in war or in peace to substitute,
its tribunals for civil courts that are open and operating
in the proper and unobstructed exercise of their jurisdiction. Only when a foreign invasion or civil war actually closes the courts and renders it impossible for them
to administer criminal justice can martial law validly be
invoked to suspend their functions. Even the suspension
of power under those conditions is of a most temporary
character. "As necessity creates the rule, so it limits its
duration; for, if this government is continued after the
courts are reinstated, it is a gross usurpation of power."
Id.,Tested
127.
by the Milligan rule, the military proceedings
in issue plainly lacked constitutional sanction. Petitioner White was arrested for embezzlement on August
20, 1942, by the provost marshal. Two days later he
was orally informed of the charges against him. Various
motions, including a request for a jury trial and for time
to prepare a defense, were overruled. On August 25 he
was convicted and sentenced to five years in prison. Petitioner Duncan was accorded similar streamlined treatment by the military. On February 24, 1944, he engaged
in a fight with two armed sentries at the Navy Yard at
Honolulu. He was promptly tried without a jury in the
provost court on March 2 and sentenced to six months at
hard labor, despite his plea of self-defense. Both the
petitioners were civilians entitled to the full protection of
the Bill of Rights, including the right to jury trial.
It is undenied that the territorial courts of Hawaii were
open and functioning during the period when the foregoing events took place. Martial law was proclaimed on
December 7, 1941, immediately after the attack on Pearl
Harbor; provost courts and military commissions were
immediately established for the trial of civilians accused
of crime. General Orders No. 4. On the next day, December 8, the territorial courts were closed by military

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

order. Thereafter criminal cases of all description,
whether involving offenses against federal or territorial
law or violations of military orders, were handled in the
provost courts and military commissions. Eight days
later, however, the military permitted the reopening of
the courts for the trial of limited classes of cases not requiring juries or the subpoenaing of witnesses. General
Orders No. 29. On January 27, 1942, further power was
restored to the courts by designating them "as agents of
the Military Governor" to dispose of civil cases except
those involving jury trials, habeas corpus and other specified matters and to exercise criminal jurisdiction in limited
types of already pending cases. General Orders No. 57.
Protests led to the issuance of General Orders No. 133 on
August 31, 1942, expanding the jurisdiction of civil courts
to cover certain types of jury trials. But General Orders
No. 135, issued on September 4, 1942, continued military
jurisdiction over offenses directed against the Government
or related to the war effort. Proclamations on February
8, 1943, provided that the jurisdiction of the courts was
to be reestablished in full except in cases of criminal and
civil suits against persons in the armed forces and except
for "criminal prosecutions for violations of military orders." These proclamations became effective on March
10, together with a revised code of military orders. Mar-'
tial law was finally lifted from Hawaii on October 24,
1944.
There can be no question but that when petitioners
White and Duncan were subjected to military trials on
August 25, 1942, and March 2, 1944, respectively, the
territorial courts of Hawaii were perfectly capable of exercising their normal criminal jurisdiction had the military allowed them to do so. The Chief Justice of the
supreme court of Hawaii stated that after the month of
April, 1942, he knew of "no sound reason for denial of trial
by jury to civilians charged with criminal offense under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
MURPHY,

J., concurring.

327 U. S.

laws of the Territory." The Governor of the Territory also
testified that the trial of civilians before military courts
for offenses against the laws of the Territory was unnecessary and unjustified by the conditions in the Territory
when petitioner White was charged with embezzlement in
August, 1942. In short, the Bill of Rights disappeared by
military fiat rather than by military necessity.
Moreover, there is no question here as to the loyalty of
the Hawaiian judiciary or as to the desire and ability of
the judges to cooperate fully with military requirements.
There is no evidence of disorder in the community which
might have prevented the courts from conducting jury
trials. As was said in the Milligan case, p. 127, "It is difficult to see how the safety of the country required martial
law in Indiana [Hawaii]. If any of her citizens were plotting treason, the power of arrest could secure them, until
the government was prepared for their trial, when the
courts were open and ready to try them. It was as easy
to protect witnesses before a civil as a military tribunal;
and as there could be no wish to convict, except on sufficient legal evidence, surely an ordained and established
court was better able to judge of this than a military tribunal composed of gentlemen not trained to the profession of the law." Thus, since the courts were open and
able to function, the military trials of the petitioners were
in violation of the Constitution. Whether, if the courts
had been closed by necessity, the military could have tried
the petitioners or merely could have held them until the
courts reopened is a constitutional issue absent from these
cases.
The so-called "open court" rule of the Milligan case,
to be sure, has been the subject of severe criticism, especially by military commentators. That criticism is
repeated by the Government in these cases. It is said that
the fact that courts are open is but one of many factors
relevant to determining the necessity and hence the con-

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

stitutionality of military trials of civilians. The argument
is made that however adequate the "open court" rule may
have been in 1628 or 1864 it is distinctly unsuited to modern warfare conditions where all of the territories of a
warring nation may be in combat zones or imminently
threatened with long-range attack even while civil courts
are operating. Hence if a military commandei, on the
basis of his conception of military necessity, requires all
civilians accused of crime to be tried summarily before
martial law tribunals, the Bill of Rights must bow humbly
to his judgment despite the unquestioned ability of the
civil courts to exercise their criminal jurisdiction.
The argument thus advanced is as untenable today as
it was when cast in the language of the Plantagenets, the
Tudors and tle Stuarts. It is a rank appeal to abandon
the fate of all our liberties to the reasonableness of the
judgment of those who are trained primarily for war.
It seeks to justify military usurpation of civilian authority
to punish crime without regard to the potency of the Bill
of Rights. It deserves repudiation.
The untenable basis of this proposed reversion back
to unlimited military rule is revealed by the reasons advanced in support of the reasonableness of the military
judgment that it was necessary, even though the civil
courts were open and fully able to perform their functions,
to impose military trials on all persons accused of crime
in Hawaii at the time when the petitioners were tried
and convicted:
First. According to the testimony of Admiral Nimitz
and General Richardson, Hawaii was in the actual theatre
of war from December 7, 1941, through the period in question. They stated that there was at all times a danger
of invasion, at least in the nature of commando raids or
submarine attacks, and that public safety required the
imposition of martial law. For present purposes it is unnecessary to dispute any of such testimony. We may

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
MURPHY, J., concurring.

327 U. S.

assume that the threat to Hawaii was a real one; we may
also take it for granted that the general declaration of
martial law was justified. But it does not follow from
these assumptions that the military was free under the
Constitution to close the civil courts or to strip them of
their criminal jurisdiction, especially after the initial
shock of the sudden Japanese attack had been dissipated.
From time immemorial despots have used real or
imagined threats to the public welfare as an excuse for.
needlessly abrogating human rights. That excuse is no
less unworthy of our traditions when used in this day of
atomic warfare or at a future time when some other type
of warfare may be devised. The right to jury trial and
the other constitutional rights of an accused individual
are too fundamental to be sacrificed merely through a
reasonable fear of military assault. There must be some
overpowering factor that makes a recognition of those
rights incompatible with the public safety before we should
consent to their temporary suspension. If those rights
may safely be respected in the face of a threatened invasion, no valid reason exists for disregarding them. In
other words, the civil courts must be utterly incapable of
trying criminals or of dispensing justice in their usual
manner before the Bill of Rights may be temporarily suspended. "Martial law [in relation to closing the courts]
cannot arise from a threatened invasion. The necessity
must be actual and present; the invasion real, such as
effectually closes the courts and deposes the civil administration." Ex parte Milligan, supra, 127.
Second. Delays in the civil courts and slowness in their
procedure are also cited as an excuse for shearing away
their criminal jurisdiction, although lack of knowledge
of any undue delays in the Hawaiian courts is admitted.
It is said that the military "cannot brook a delay" and
that "the punishment must be swift; there is an element
of time in it, and we cannot afford to let the trial linger

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

MURPHY,

J., concurring.

and be protracted." This military attitude toward constitutional processes is not novel. Civil liberties and military expediency are often irreconcilable. It does take
time to secure a grand jury indictment, to allow the accused to procure and confer with counsel, to permit the
preparation of a defense, to form a petit jury, to respect
the elementary rules of procedure and evidence and to
judge guilt or innocence according to accepted rules of
law. But experience has demonstrated that such time is
well spent. It is the only method we have of insuring the
protection of constitutional rights and of guarding against
oppression. The swift trial and punishment which the
military desires is precisely what the Bill of Rights outlaws. We would be false to our trust if we allowed the time
it takes to give effect to constitutional rights to be used
as the very reason for taking away those rights. It is our
duty, as well as that of the military, to make sure that such
rights are respected whenever possible, even though time
may be consumed.
Third. It is further said that the issuance of military
orders relating to civilians required that the military have
at its disposal some sort of tribunal to enforce those regulations. Any failure of civil courts to convict violators of
such regulations would diminish the authority and ability
to discharge military responsibilities. This is the ultimate
and most vicious of the arguments used to justify military
trials. It assumes without proof that civil courts are incompetent and are prone to free those who are plainly
guilty. It assumes further that because the military may
have the valid power to issue regulations there must be an
accompanying power to punish the violations of those regulations; the implicit and final assumption is then made
that the military must have power to punish violations of
all other statutes and regulations. Nothing is more inconsistent with our form of government, with its distinction between the power to promulgate law and the power

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
MURPHY,

J.,

concurring.

327

U. S.

to punish violations of the law. Application of this doctrine could soon lead to the complete elimination of civil
jurisdiction over crime.
Moreover, the mere fact that it may be more expedient
and convenient for the military to try violators of its own
orders before its own tribunals does not and should not
furnish a constitutional basis for the jurisdiction of such
tribunals when civil courts are in fact functioning or are
capable of functioning. Constitutional rights are rooted
deeper than the wishes and desires of the military.
Fourth. Much is made of the assertion that the civil
courts in Hawaii had no jurisdiction over violations of
military orders by civilians and that military courts were
therefore necessary. Aside from the fact that the civil
courts were ordered not to attempt to exercise such jurisdiction, it is sufficient to note that Congress on March 21,
1942, vested in the federal courts jurisdiction to enforce
military orders with criminal penalties. 56 Stat. 173.
It is undisputed that the federal court in Hawaii was open
at all times in issue and was capable of exercising criminal jurisdiction. That the military refrained from using
the statutory framework which Congress erected affords
no constitutional justification for the creation of military
tribunals to try such violators.
Fifth. Objection is made to the enforcement in civil
courts of fAiilitary orders on the ground that it would
subject the military to "all sorts of influences, political
and otherwise, as happened in the cases on the east coast
in both Philadelphia and Boston" and that "it is inconceivable that the Military Commander should be subjected for the enforcement of his orders to the control
of other agents." This is merely a military criticism of
the proposition that in this nation the military is subordinate to the civil authority. It does not qualify as a
recognizable reason for closing the civil courts to criminal
cases.

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

MURPHY,

333

J., concurring.

Sixth. Further objection is made that the holding of
civil trials might interrupt vital work through the attendance as jurors of war workers. This also is too unmeritorious to warrant serious or lengthy discussion. War
workers could easily have been excused from jury duty
by military order if necessary.
Seventh. The final reason advanced relates to the testimony of military leaders that Hawaii is said to have a
"heterogeneous population with all sorts of affinities and
loyalties which are alien in many cases to the philosophy
of life of the American Government," one-third of the
civilian population being of Japanese descent. The court
below observed, 146 F. 2d 576, 580, that "Governmental
and military problems alike were complicated by the
presence in the Territory of tens of thousands of citizens
of Japanese ancestry besides large numbers of, aliens of
the same race. Obviously the presence of so many inhabitants of doubtful loyalty posed a continuing threat to
the public security. Among these people the personnel
of clandestine landing parties might mingle freely, without detection. Thus was afforded ideal cover for the
activities of the saboteur and the spy. .

.

. To function

in criminal matters the civilian courts must assemble
juries; and citizens of Japanese extraction could not lawfully be excluded from jury panels on the score of raceeven in cases of offenses involving the military security
of the Territory. Indeed the mere assembling of juries
and the carrying on of protracted criminal trials might
well constitute an invitation to disorder as well as an
interference with the vital business of the moment." The
Government adds that many of the military personnel
stationed in Hawaii were unaccustomed to living in such
a community and that "potential problems" created in
Hawaii by racially mixed juries in criminal cases have
heretofore been recognized "although, on the whole, it has
been found that members of such mixed juries have not
acted on a racial basis."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
MURPHY, J., concurring.

327 U. S.

The implication apparently is that persons of Japanese
descent, including those of American background and
training, are of such doubtful loyalty as a group as to constitute a menace justifying the denial of the procedural
rights of all accused persons in Hawaii. It is also implied
that persons of Japanese descent are unfit for jury duty
in HaWaii and that the problems arising when they serve
on juries are so great as to warrant dispensing with the
entire jury system in Hawaii if the military so desires.
The lack of any factual or logical basis for such implications is clear. It is a known fact that there have been no
recorded acts of sabotage, espionage or fifth column activities by persons of Japanese descent in Hawaii either
on or subsequent to December 7, 1941. There was thus
no security reason for excluding them from juries, even
making the false assumption that it was impossible to
separate the loyal from the disloyal. And if there were
problems arising from the use of racially mixed juries,
elimination of all jury trials was hardly a reasonable or
sensible answer to those problems. Especially deplorable,
however, is this use of the iniquitous doctrine of racism
to justify the imposition of military trials. Racism has
no place whatever in our civilization. The Constitution
as well as the conscience of mankind disclaims its use for
any purpose, military or otherwise. It can only result,
as it does in this instance, in striking down individual
rights and in aggravating rather than solving the problems toward which it is directed. It renders impotent the
ideal of the dignity of the human personality, destroying
something of what is noble in our way of life. We must
therefore reject it completely whenever it arises in the
course of a legal proceeding.
The reasons here advanced for abandoning the "open
court" rule of the Milligan case are without substance.
To retreat from that rule is to open the door to rampant
militarism and the glorification of war, which have de-

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

STONE,

C. J., concurring.

stroyed so many nations in history. There is a very necessary part in our national life for the military; it has
defended this country .well in its darkest hours of trial.
But militarism is not our way of life. It is to be used only
in the most extreme circumstances. Moreover, we must
be on constant guard against an excessive use of any power,
military or otherwise, that results in the needless destruction of our rights and liberties. There must be a careful
balancing of interests. And we must ever keep in mind
that "The Constitution of the United States is a law for
rulers and people, equally in war and in peace, and covers
with the shield of its protection all classes of men, at all
times, and under all circumstances." Ex parte Milligan,
supra, 120-121.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE, concurring.
I concur in the result.
I do not think that "martial law," as used in § 67 of
the Hawaiian Organic Act, is devoid of meaning. This
Court has had occasion to consider its scope and has
pointed out that martial law is the exercise of the power
which resides in the executive branch of the Government
to preserve order and insure the public safety in times
of emergency, when other branches of the Government
are unable to function, or their functioning would itself
threaten the public safety. Luther v. Borden, 7 How.
1, 45. It is a law of necessity to be prescribed and administered by the executive power. Its object, the preservation of the public safety and good order, defines its
scope, which will vary with the circumstances and necessities of the case. The exercise of the power may not
extend beyond what is required by the exigency which
calls it forth. Mitchell v. Harmony, 13 How. 115, 133;
United States v. Russell, 13 Wall. 623, 628; Raymond v.
Thomas, 91 U. S. 712, 716; Sterling v. Constantin, 287
U. S. 378, 400, 401. Any doubts that might be enter-

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
STONE,

C. J., concurring.

327 U. S.

tained that such is the true limit of martial law in this
case are put at rest by § 67 of the Hawaiian Organic Act,
which, "in case of rebellion or invasion, or imminent
danger thereof," authorizes martial law only "when the
public safety requires it . . ."

The Executive has broad discretion in determining
when the public emergency is such as to give rise to the
necessity of martial law, and in adapting it to the need.
Cf. Hirabayashiv. United States, 320 U. S. 81. But executive action is not proof of its own necessity, and the
military's judgment here is not conclusive that every
action taken pursuant to the declaration of martial law
was justified by the exigency. In the substitution of martial law controls for the ordinary civil processes, "what
are the allowable limits of military discretion, and whether
or not they have been overstepped in a particular case, are
judicial questions." Sterling v. Constantin,supra, 401.
I take it that the Japanese attack on Hawaii on December 7, 1941, was an "invasion" within the meaning
of § 67. But it began and ended long before these petitioners were tried by military tribunals in August 1942 and
February 1944. I assume that there was danger of further
invasion of Hawaii at the times of those trials. I assume
also that there could be circumstances in which the public
safety requires, and the Constitution permits, substitution of trials by military tribunals for trials in the civil
courts. But the record here discloses no such conditions
in Hawaii, at least during the period after February, 1942,
and the trial court so found. After closing places of amusement, and after closing the civil courts on December 8,
1941, the military authorities, on December 24, 1941,
ordered places of amusement to be opened. On January
27, 1942, they permitted the courts to exercise their normal
functions except as to jury trials and the issuance of writs
of habeas corpus. On February 4, 1942, they authorized
the sale of liquor at bars.

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

BURTON, J., dissenting.

The full record in this case shows the conditions prevailing in Hawaii throughout 1942 and 1943. It demonstrates
that from February 1 42 on, the civil courts were capable
of functioning, and that trials of petitioners in the civil
courts no more endangered the public safety than the
gathering of the populace in saloons and places of amusement, which was authorized by military order. I find nothing in the entire record which would fairly suggest that
the civil courts were -unable to function with their usual
efficiency at the times these petitioners were tried, or that
their trial by jury in a civil court would have endangered
good order or the public safety. The Governor of Hawaii
and the Chief Justice of the Hawaiian supreme court testified to the contrary. The military authorities themselves
testified and advanced no reason which has any bearing
on public safety or good order for closing the civil courts
to the trial of these petitioners, or for trying them in
military courts. I can only conclude that the trials and
the convictions upon which petitioners are now detained,
were unauthorized by the statute, and without lawful
authority.
We have no occasion to consider whether the arrest
and detention of petitioners by the military authorities,
pending their delivery to the civil authorities for trial,
would have been lawful. The judgment of the circuit
court of appeals should be reversed and the petitioners
discharged from custody forthwith.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON, with
FURTER concurs, dissenting.

whom MR. JUSTICE FRANK-

With the rest of this Court I subscribe unreservedly
to the Bill of Rights. I recognize the importance of the
civil courts in protecting individual rights guaranteed by
the Constitution. I prefer civil to military control of
civilian life and I agree that in war our Constitution contemplates the preservation of the individual rights of all

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

of our people in accordance with a plan of constitutional
procedure fitted to the needs of a self-governing republic
at war.
Our Constitution expressly provides for waging war,
and it is with the constitutional instruments for the successful conduct of war that I am concerned. I recognize
here, as elsewhere, the constitutional direction that our
respective branches of the Government do not exceed
their allotted shares of authority. The courts, as well as
our other agencies of the Government, accordingly owe
a constitutional obligation not to invade the fields reserved either to the people, the States, or the other coordinate branches of the Government. The courts have an
obligation to help define and protect the discretion with
which the people have invested their legislative and executive representatives. Within their proper spheres, the
robust strength and freedom of action allowed to the
policy making and policy executing agencies of our Government are as vital to the success of our great experiment
in securing "the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our
Posterity" as are the checks and balances which have
been imposed upon our representatives. It is in the
application'of these views -to the cases before us that I
am obliged to dissent from the majority of this Court and
to sound a note of warning against the dangers of overexpansion of judicial control into the fields allotted by
the Constitution to agencies of legislative and executive
action.
The controlling facts in the cases before us are the extraordinary conditions created by the surprise Japanese
invasion by air of Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941.
Visualizing the devastating success of that attack and the
desperate conditions resulting from it, the primary question is what discretionary action by the executive branch
of our Government, including the Army and Navy, was
permissible on that day and in the period following it.

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

BURTON,

339

J., dissenting.

Pearl Harbor and the Hawaiian Islands were the key to
America's defenses in the Pacific. The attack of December 7th destroyed more of America's naval forces than
our Government felt it safe to announce. America's first
line of defense was pierced. The attack demonstrated
that it was part of a carefully planned major military
operation against not only Hawaii but the United States.
Presumably it would be pressed further. It might well
be followed by a land invasion of the Islands and by aerial
attacks upon their centers of population.1
I Admiral Chester W. Nimitz, Commander in Chief of the Pacific
Fleet, who assumed naval command in the Territory of Hawaii December 18, 1941, testified that the Hawaiian area constituted the only
base for the Navy in the Pacific Ocean at that time and that throughout the war until the last Japanese carrier was destroyed, a Japanese
surprise carrier attack on the Islands was within the enemy's capabilities. While invasion by sea-borne troops in sufficient number to seize
a beach head was not probable, invasion by submarine commando
raiders and espionage parties was imminent and constantly impending.
Lieutenant General Robert C. Richardson, Jr., Commanding General
of the Central Pacific Area, who assumed command of the Hawaiian
Department on June 1, 1943, testified that the Islands were within
the theatre of operations of the Pacific Ocean area and that the Islands
were the keystone of the defense of the western coast of our country.
He testified that the Japanese fleet in April, 1944, was still capable of
making a surprise attack upon Oahu by the use of air or undersea
craft and that Pearl Harbor was the most attractive target for the
enemy because it was the base of the Pacific fleet. He said that it was
likely that Japan would take the risk of launching an attack because
of the attractiveness of the target and the considerable damage that
might be inflicted. He pointed out that the probability of night attacks through the use of submarines and parties sent ashore to attack
important installations was increased by the presence of disloyal individuals among the population of the Islands. The successes of our
fleet had not removed the imminent danger of invasion because these
successes made it more imperative for the enemy to repeat its former
invasion of the Islands. He further testified that the discharge of his
responsibility for military security required a method of enforcement
of military security regulations which was prompt and subject to his

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

Handicapped by major losses of air and sea power, the
commander of this isolated outpost was faced with imminent danger of further invasions under conditions calling for a desperate defense of the Islands. The Islands
suddenly had become the focal point of a major action
which converted them into an outpost of critical military
importance to the world in general and to the United
States in particular. Their invasion and possible capture overshadowed every other consideration. The
Islands were a white-hot center of war ready to burst
into flames.
Military attack by air, sea and land was to be expected. The complete disregard of international law eviimmediate control and authority and that under martial law the provost courts provided such a method of enforcement. He testified
that a military trial for such an offense as that of Duncan in attacking
the Pearl Harbor Navy Yard sentries was necessary in order to uphold
the authority of military sentries charged with important military
duties. He also gave as his opinion that military necessity required
trial of White's offense in a military tribunal in August of 1942 at
which time the Japanese successful military offensive still continued.
In addition to the occupation of Hong Kong, the Malay Peninsula,
Singapore, the Dutch East Indies, and bases in New Guinea, the Japanese had successfully occupied our own territories of Guam and Wake
which, with Midway, constituted the island chain connecting Hawaii
with the Philippines which themselves were soon occupied. The enemy's occupation of the Solomon Islands, including Tulagi and Guadalcanal, gave the enemy advance air and naval bases for offensive operations against our South Pacific supply line and the north coast of
Australia. Biennial Report of the Chief of Staff of the United States
Army to the Secretary of War (1943) 14 (House Doe. 288, 78th Cong.,
1st Sess.); McInnis, The War, Third Year (1942) 238.
Early in May, 1942, one Japanese attempt to extend enemy control
southeastward along the borders of the Coral Sea with the ultimate
objective of an attack on Australia, was repulsed in the Battle of the
Coral Sea. The Japanese offensive, however, continued. In early
June the Japanese attempt to occupy Midway Island preliminary to
an invasion of Hawaii was thwarted in the Battle of Midway. At the
same time, however, Japanese forces occupied our territory of Attu,

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

341

BURTON, J., dissenting.

denced by the first attack and the possible presence on the
Islands of many Japanese collaborators gave warning that
the enemy's next move might take the form of disastrous
sabotage and terrorism among civilians. The extraoidinary breach of international law evidenced by the attack
made it essential to take extraordinary steps to protect
the Islands against subversive action that might spring
from deeply laid plans as secret, well aimed, and destructive as the original attack.
On December 7 and in the period immediately following, every inch of the Territory of Hawaii was like a frontier stockade under savage attack with notice that such
attack would not be restrained by the laws of civilized
Agattu and Kiska in the Aleutian Islands. Biennial Report, supra,
p. 30. (These islands were not recovered until May, 1943. Biennial
Report, supra, p. 31.) Japanese advances in New Guinea continued
during the summer of 1942 and by September, 1942, had forced Allied
ground forces back to within 30 miles of Port Moresby, a gateway to
Australia. Biennial Report, supra, p. 14. On August 7 a landing was
made on Guadalcanal by United States forces. For a time it did not
appear that the effort to wrest this crucial island from the Japanese
could succeed. A strong Japanese attempt to recapture Guadalcanal
was beaten off as late as November 16, 1942. Not until early in 1943
was enemy resistance on Guadalcanal overcome. Ibid. Even then
our forces had only succeeded in checking the enemy's offensive and
had not launched their own offensives or ousted the enemy from any
American territory. The American offensive in the Central Pacific
did not begin until a year later with the invasion of the Gilbert Islands
in November, 1943, followed by invasion of the Marshall Islands in
January, 1944, and the invasion of the Mariana Islands in July, 1944.
Biennial Report of the Chief of Staff of the United States Army to the
Secretary of War (1945) 69. Our forces landed on Guam on July 21
and resistance ceased on August 10. By that time our forces in the
Southwest Pacific under General MacArthur had reduced or by-passed
the enemy's footholds in New Guinea and the way was prepared for
the Battle of the Philippines which began with the landing on Leyte
on October 20, 1944. Id., p. 75 et seq. The "Battle of the Bulge," in
the Ardennes, was fought and won at high cost in December and
January, 1944-45. Id., p. 44.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON, J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

nations.' Measures of defense had to be taken on the
basis that anything could happen. The relation of the
Constitution of the United States to such a situation is
important. Of course, the Constitution is not put aside.
It was written by a generation fresh from war. The people established a more perfect union, in part, so that they
might the better defend themselves from military attack.
In doing so they centralized far more military power and
responsibility in the Chief Executive than previously had
been done. The Constitution was built for rough as well
as smooth roads. In time of war the nation simply
changes gears and takes the harder going under the same
power.
The conduct of war under the Constitution is largely an
executive function. Within the field of military action in
time of war, the executive is allowed wide discretion.
While, even in the conduct of war, there are many lines
of jurisdiction to draw between the proper spheres of legislative, executive and judicial action, it seems clear that
at least on an active battle field, the executive discretion
to determine policy is there intended by the Constitution
to be supreme. The question then arises: What is a battle
field and how long does it remain one after the first
barrage?
It is well that the outer limits of the jurisdiction of our
military authorities is subject to review by our courts even
under such extreme circumstances as those of the battle
field. This, however, requires the courts to put themselves
as nearly as possible in the place of those who had the
2

"Hawaii constitutes the main Pacific outpost of the United States,

and accordingly must be regarded as a fortress to whose defense the
entire population of the Islands is committed. Its manpower and
its economic resources must be subject to a single ultimate control."
General Orders No. 133, by order of the Military Governor of the
Territory of Hawaii, August 31, 1942.

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

BURTON,

J., dissenting.

constitutional responsibility for immediate executive action. For a court to recreate a complete picture of the
emergency is impossible. That impossibility demonstrates
the need for a zone of executive discretion within which
courts must guard themselves with special care against
judging past military action too closely by the inapplicable standards of judicial, or even military, hindsight.
The nature of judicial authority is largely negative as
contrasted with the generally positive nature of executive
authority, and it is essential that the opportunity for well
directed positive action be preserved and vigorously used
if the Government is to serve the best interests of the
people.
For this Court to intrude its judgment into spheres of
constitutional discretion that are reserved either to the
Congress or to the Chief Executive, is to invite disregard
of that judgment by the Congress or by executive agencies
under a claim of constitutional right to do so. On the
other hand, this Court can contribute much to the orderly
conduct of government, if it will outline reasonable boundaries for the discretion of the respective departments of
the Government, with full regard for the limitations and
also for the responsibilities imposed upon them by the
Constitution.
It is important to approach the present cases with a full
appreciation of the responsibility of the executive branch
of the Government in Hawaii under the invasion which
occurred on December 7, 1941. The question is not shall
the Constitution apply under such circumstances? The
question is with what authority has the Constitution and
laws of this country vested the official representatives of
the people upon whom are placed the responsibilities of
leadership under those extraordinary circumstances?
The vital distinction is between conditions in "the theatre of actual military operations" and outside of that

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON, J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

theatre.' In this case Hawaii was not only in the theatre
of operations, it was under fire. If the Territory of
Hawaii, on that date and during the immediately succeeding period, is recognized as the battle field it was, then
under such circumstances of invasion and threat of immediate further invasion, the actions taken by the Governor of Hawaii and by the Commanding General of the
Hawaiian Department, supported by the President of the
United States, in suspending the writ of habeas corpus,
declaring martial law and vesting in such Commanding
General for those first several days the powers normally
exercised by the Governor and by the judicial officers
and employees of the Territory (at least to the extent
3 "Again, in the place where actual military operations are being

conducted, the ordinary rights of citizens must yield to paramount
military necessity. This was conceded in Milligan's case [4 Wall. 2,
127], where it was said in the prevailing opinion:
"'If, in foreign invasion or civil war, the courts are actually closed,
and it is impossible to administer criminal justice according to law,
then, on the theatre of actual military operations, where war really
prevails, there is a necessity to furnish a substitute for the civil authority, thus overthrown, to preserve the safety of the army and society; and as no power is left but the military, it is allowed to govern
by martial rule until the laws can have their free course.'" Address
by Hon. Charles E. Hughes, War Powers Under the. Constitution
(1917) XLII Reports of American Bar Association 232, 244.
In the present cases the records have incorporated the following testimony of Lt. Gen. Robert C. Richardson, Jr., U. S. A., Commanding
General of the Central Pacific Area:
"A. . . . this whole area under the command of the Commander-inChief of the Pacific Ocean Area, Admiral Nimitz, is an active theatre
of war, and within that theatre of war is the theatre of operations,
of which the Hdwaiian Department is a part.
"Q. Will you explain what you mean, from the military viewpoint,
by the terms 'active theatre of war' and 'theatre of operations'?
"A. Well, an active theatre of war is that area which is or may become actively involved in the conduct of the war. A theatre of operations is that part of an active war theatre which is needed for the
operations either offensively or defensively, according to the missions

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

BURTON, J., dissenting.

that would be involved in the present cases if they had
arisen at that time), were within the executive discretion
of the officials who authorized the action. The actual
presence of battle in a community creates a substantially
different condition from that which exists in other parts
of a nation at war. That conditions of war and the means
of meeting its emergencies were within'the contemplation
of the Constitution of the United States is shown by the
broad authority vested in the President of the United
States as Chief Executive and as Commander in Chief
of the Army and Navy and in the war powers of the Congress and the Chief Executive to preserve the safety of
assigned or a combination of the missions; and it includes also the
administrative agencies which are necessary for the conduct of those
operations."
"Q. Is there any military parlance that indicates that portion of

the earth's surface where the fighting actually takes place?
"A. Yes.
"Q. What is that called?
"A. Combat zone.
"Q. You would not call Hawaii a combat zone?
"A. Yes, I would, because the theatre of operations or the combat
zone also includes that part assigned to your mission, whether it be
offensive or defensive. We are on the defensive mission here in Oahu,
whereas the fleet operates offensively from here, and some of our
troops which are based here operate offensively from this base. But
concurrently with its mission as an offensive base, we have a very
decided mission here as a defensive base, and that defensive mission
designates or characterizes it as a part of the combat zone.
"Q. Then a combat zone can be an area where no shooting is going
on at all?
"A. Oh, yes; oh, yes.
"Q. No real destruction of life or property?
"A. Absolutely ....

"Q. Well, do you have any term, military term, that precisely fits
the place where life and property is actually being destroyed as a
result of organized warfare?
"A. Yes, the battle."

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON, J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

the nation in time of war. The present cases arose in a
Territory of the United States, directly under the care
and jurisdiction of the Federal Government. That conditions of actual invasion were contemplated by Congress
in the Organic Act of Hawaii is seen from the provision
quoted in the majority opinion to the effect that
"whenever it becomes necessary . . . [the Governor] may call upon the commanders of the military
and naval forces of the United States in the Territory
of Hawaii, or summon the posse comitatus, or call out
the militia of the Territory to prevent or suppress
lawless violence, invasion, insurrection, or rebellion
in said Territory, and he may, in case of rebellion or
invasion, or imminent danger thereof, when the public safety requiresit, suspend the privilege of the writ
of habeas corpus, or place the Territory, or any part
thereof, under martial law until communication can
be had with the President and his decision thereon
made known." § 67 of the Hawaiian Organic Act,
31 Stat. 153, 48 U. S. C. § 532. (Italics supplied.)
The Governor's proclamation demonstrates that, in so
far as the discretion lay in him, he recognized in those
days that a condition had arisen calling for the exercise
of these powers. The proclamation of December 7, 1941,
in its every word is the best evidence of the exercise of
this discretion and speaks for itself:
"Whereas, it is provided by Section 67 of the Organic Act of the Territory of Hawaii, approved April
30, 1900, that, whenever it becomes necessary, the
Governor of that territory may call upon the commander of the military forces of the United States
in that territory to prevent invasion; and
"Whereas, it is further provided by the said section
that the governor may in case of invasion or imminent danger thereof, when the public safety requires
it, suspend the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus
and place the territory under martial law; and

DUNCAN v.. KAHANAMOKU.
304

BURTON,

J., dissenting.

"Whereas, the armed forces of the Empire of Japan
have this day attacked and invaded the shores of the
Hawaiian Islands; and
"Whereas, it has become necessary to repel such
attack and invasion'; and
"Whereas, the public safety requires;
"Now, Therefore, I, J. B. Poindexter, Governor of
the Territory of Hawaii, do hereby announce that,
pursuant to said section, I have called upon the Commanding General, Hawaiian Department, to prevent
such invasion;
"And, pursuant to the same section, I do hereby
suspend the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus
until further notice;
"And, pursuant to the same section, I do hereby
place the said territory under martial law;
"And, I do hereby authorize and request the Commanding General, Hawaiian Department, during the
present emergency and until the danger of invasion
is removed, to exercise all the powers normally exercised by me as Governor;
"And I do further authorize and request the said
Commanding General, Hawaiian Department, and
those subordinate military personnel to whom he may
delegate' such authority, during the present emergency and until the danger of invasion is removed,
to exercise the powers normally exercised by judicial
officers and employees of this territory and of the
counties and cities therein, and such other and further powers as the emergency may require;
"And I do require all good citizens of the United
States and all other persons within the Territory of
Hawaii to obey promptly and fully, in letter and in
spirit, such proclamations, rules, regulations and orders, as the Commanding General, Hawaiian Department, or his subordinates, may issue during the
present emergency."
This action was communicated by him to the President and the President's decision upon his action was
made known in accordance with the Organic Act of Hawaii
in the following messages:

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON, J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

"Dec. 7, 1941
"The President the White House
Washington D C
I Have Today Declared Martial Law Throughout the
Territory of Hawaii and Have Suspended the Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus Period Your Attention Is Called to Section Sixty Seven of the
Hawaiian Organic Act for Your Decision on My
Action
POINDEXTER"
"December 9, 1941
"Honorable Joseph B. Poindexter,
Governor, Territory of Hawaii,
Honolulu, Hawaii.
Your Telegram of December Seventh Received and
Your Action in Suspending the Writ of Habeas Corpus and Placing the Territory of Hawaii Under
Martial Law in Accordance with U. S. C., Title 48,
Section 532 Has My Approval.
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT"
The discretion to determine within reasonable limits
the existence of the emergency of war contemplated by
the Organic Act must be an executive discretion. Under
the circumstances now generally known as to what took
place at Pearl Harbor on December 7 and the seriousness
of the threat which that attack carried with it, not only
to the people in the Territory of Hawaii but to the United
States of America, I am unable to find that on that day the
President and the Governor exceeded their constitutional
authority in taking the steps evidenced by the foregoing
declaration of -policy or that the Commanding General
exceeded his authority in carrying out those instructions
through the issuance of his proclamation pursuant thereto
on December 7, 1941.:
4 "To

the People of Hawaii:
"The military and naval forces of the Empire of Japan have attacked
and attempted to invade these islands.
"Pursuant to section 67 of the Organic Act of the Territory of
Hawaii, approved April 30, 1900, the Governor of Hawaii has called

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

BURTON, J., dissenting.

The findings of fact, express and implicit in these
prompt and forthright expressions of executive leadership,
upon me, as commander of the military forces of the United States
in Hawaii, to prevent such invasion; has suspended the privilege of
the writ of habeas corpus; has placed the Terntory under martial
law; has authorized and requested me and my subordinates to ex.ercise the powers normally exercised by the governor and by subordinate civil officers; and has requiredall persons within theTerritory to
obey such proclamations, orders, and regulations as I may issue during
the present emergency.
"I announce to the people of Hawaii, that, in compliance with the
above requests of the Governor of Hawaii, I have this day assumed
the position of military governor of Hawaii, and have taken charge of
the government of the Territory, of the preservation of order therein,
and of putting these islands in a proper state of defense.
"All persons within the Territory of Hawaii, whether residents
thereof or not whbether citizens of the United States or not, of no
matter what race or nationality, are warned that by reason of their
presence here they owe during their stay at least a temporary duty
of obedience to the United States, and that they are bound to refrain
from giving by word or deed, any aid or comfort to the enemies of
the United States. Any violation of this duty is treason, and will be
punished by the severest penalties.
"The troops under my command, in putting down any disorder or
rebellion and in preventing any aid to the invader, will act with such
firmness and vigor and will use such arms as the accomplishment of
their task may require.
"The imminence of attack by the enemy and the possibility of invasion make necessary a stricter control of your actions than would
be necessary or proper at other times. I shall therefore shortly publish
ordinances governing the conduct of the people of the Territory with
respect to the showing of lights, circulation, meetings, censorship,
possession of arms, ammunition, and explosives, the sale of intoxicating liquors and other subjects.
"In order to assist in repelling the threatened invasion of our island
home, good citizens will cheerfully obey this proclamation and the
ordinances to be published; others will be required to do so. Offenders
will be severely punished by military tribunals or will be held in
custody until such time as the civil courts are able to function.
"Pending further instructions from this headquarters the Hawaii
Defense Act and the Proclamations of the Governor of Hawaii heretofore issued thereunder shall continue in full force and effect."
(Italics supplied.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON, J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

leave no room for doubt as to the genuineness of the
emergency and of the conscientious determination of these
officials to act so as to meet it. At the same time, the
appreciation felt by the Commanding General of his
responsibility to the civilians on the Islands is shown in
his three concluding paragraphs. Starting with the propriety of that battle field regulation in the presence of
disastrous invasion, the question resolves itself solely to
one of when and to what extent the constitutional executive discretion to continue these orders can or should be
held by this Court to have been exceeded. Once the
Islands are visualized as a battle field under actual invasion, threatened with further invasion, and invaluable
to the enemy as a base from which to attack the continental United States, the situation is completely changed
from that of an ordinary civilian community. Under
conditions likely to disregard even the laws of civilized
warfare, the island population was threatened with immediate destruction. It thus became necessary to organize and protect that population against imminent danger
from bombing, fire, disruption of water and food supply,
disease and all the other incidents of modern warfare.
The limited area, limited garrison and great isolation of
the Islands put a premium on the efficiency of its civilian
defense and on the integration of it with the military
defense. All activity was subordinated to executive control as the best constitutional safeguard of the civilian
as well as the military life.
That in such a case there must be restoration of civilian
control is clear. It is equally clear that there must be
limits to the extent to which the executive discretion
constitutionally may delay such restoration. In the first
instance, however, there is a period, bearing a reasonable
relation to the original emergency, during which it must
be within the discretion of the executive agencies of the
Government to decide when and how to restore the battle
field to its peace time controls.

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

BURTON, J., dissenting.

In view of the responsibility placed upon the executive
branch of the Government and especially upon its armed
forces in time of invasion and threatened invasion, it is
essential that that branch of the Government have freedom of action equal to its needs. At the center of invasion, military control is the proper control to be applied,
subject to provisions of the Constitution, treaties and
laws of the United States applicable to a battle field.
On December 7, 1941, I believe that the facts of the invasion and threatened further invasion amply established
such a condition and justified at the time the military
control established on that basis throughout the Islands.
Whether or not from the vantage post of the present
this Court may disagree with the judgment exercised by
the military authorities in their schedule of relaxation of
control is not material unless this Court finds that the
schedule was so delayed as to exceed the range of discretion which such conditions properly vest in the military
authorities.
It is all too easy in this postwar period to assume that
the success which our forces attained was inevitable and
that military control should have been relaxed on a schedule based upon such actual developments. In fact, however, even now our Chief of Staff in his report to the Secretary of War as of June 30, 1945, reminds us that in "the
black days of 1942 when the Japanese conquered all of
Malaysia, occupied Burma, and threatened India while
the German armies approached the Volga and the
Suez. . . . Germany and Japan came so close to complete
domination of the world that we do not yet realize how
thin the thread of Allied survival had been stretched."
Biennial Report of the Chief of Staff of the United States
Army (1945) 1. Those were critical days when the
5See also the letters of General George C. Marshall, Chief of Staff,
of September 25 and 27, 1944, to Governor Thomas E. Dewey, emphasizing the tragic military consequences which at that date would

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON,

J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

United States could afford no military mistakes and when
the safety and control of the Hawaiian key to the Pacific
was essential. It was the responsibility of our military
commanders not only to do the right thing in the interests
of safety but to take no chances of error or surprise. It
was the obligation of our military commanders to insure
safety rather than to risk it. Acting as they were in the
"fog of war," they were entitled to a wide range of discretion if they were to meet the obligations imposed upon
them. It is not justifiable to tear Hawaii out from the context of the war as a whole. Our military policy there, as
elsewhere, had to be guided by its relation to the global
war.
Under these circumstances it is conceivable that the
military authorities might have tried to continue complete
military control in effect for a substantial period with a
view to later relaxation of all such control when conditions made it obvious that there was no longer a need for
any control. Such a course was not attempted here. The
Commanding General of the Hawaiian Department followed from the beginning the policy foreshadowed in his
original proclamation. He restored civilian control of
civilian activities wherever and whenever he felt that a
partial restoration of it was in the public interest. In the
meantime he had the primary duty of maintaining law and
order and of fostering civilian activities as much as possible. Perhaps he could have arrested and detained individuals charged with violation of laws or regulations and
held them for later trial by civilian courts. However, in
view of the size of the population and the necessarily
limited facilities for large scale detentions, he owed an
equal duty to dispose promptly of violations of the law.
follow disclosure that the United States had "broken" the Japanese
secret message code. Hearings before Joint Committee of Congress to
Investigate the Pearl Harbor Attack, 79th Cong., 2d Sess., Part III,
1128-1133.

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

BuRTON, J., dissenting.

To this end, law and order was enforced and justice was
administered in the first instance through military tribunals. With evident care and with substantial rapidity
the military control was relaxed gradually, in instance
after instance, until the administration of .justice over
civilians was restored completely to civilian administration when, on October 19, 1944, the President issued a
proclamation effective October 24, terminating martial
law and directing the Governor to issue a proclamation
accordingly.
There is set forth in the margin ' a summary of the
steps by which this relaxation was accomplished. As early
6 Dec.

7, 1941. Governor Poindexter invoked § 67 of the Hawaiian
Organic Act and by proclamation placed the Territory under martial
law; suspended the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus; and delegated to the Commanding General of the Hawaiian Department of
the United States Army not only all of his powers as Governor but
also all of the "powers normally exercised by judicial officers . . . of
this territory . . . during the present emergency and until the danger
of invasion is removed . . ."
Dec. 7, 1941. By radio the Governor of Hawaii notified the President of the United States that he had placed the Territory under
martial law and suspended the writ of habeas corpus.
Dec. 7, 1941. The Commanding General, Walter C. Short, referring specifically to Governor Poindexter's proclamation of the same
date, himself issued a proclamation notifying the people of Hawaii
that he had assumed the position of "Military Governor of Hawaii"
and had taken over the government of Hawaii.
Dec. 7, 1941. The Military Governor of Hawaii issued General
Orders No. 4 by which he set up a system of military courts to try
civilians for violations of the laws of the United States, the laws of
the Territory, and "rules, regulations, orders or policies".of the military authorities. The procedure prescribed for these military courts
was that of special and summary courts martial.
Dec. 8, 1941. The courts of the Territory were closed by the Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of Hawaii under the direction of the
Commanding General.
Dec. 9, 1941. The President approved by radio, the action of the
Governor suspending the writ and placing the Territory under martial
law in accordance with the Organic Act of Hawaii.
Dec. 16, 1941. By General Orders No. 29 the complete closing of

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON, J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

as December 16, 1941, the courts were reopened in so far
as they applied to civil matters not involving jury trials.
On January 27, 1942, the restrictions on court procedure
were further modified. On August 31, 1942, a general
order extended the jurisdiction of the courts to jury trials.
Further relaxation occurred from time to time in 1942
and 1943.
It was on August 20, 1942, that the petitioner White
was arrested for embezzlement in violation of Chapter 183
of the Revised Laws of Hawaii. On August 25 he was
tried and convicted before a provost court, and sentenced
the courts was partly relaxed. The relaxation affected only civil
matters not involving jury trials.
Dec. 17, 1941. General Short transferred to General Emmons his
powers as Military Governor of Hawaii.
Jan. 27, 1942. The Military Governor, by General Orders No. 57,
modified further the restrictions on court proceedings. By this order
the courts of the Territory were authorized to exercise certain of the
powers normally exercised by them during the existence of civil government. With certain exceptions, the courts were restored to their
respective functions prior to martial law, "as agents of the Military
Governor." The criminal courts could not, under the order, summon
a grand jury; and neither the criminal nor civil courts could grant
a jury trial, or at any time grant a writ of habeas corpus.
Aug. 31, 1942. General Orders No. 133 extended the jurisdiction
of the courts to jury trials. This order stated in § I: ". . . Martial
law has been declared and the emergency which called it forth still
prevails ....
It is to be understood that the relaxation herein specified is intended to return to the courts criminal prosecutions and civil
litigation to the extent that war conditions permit. However, this
action is experimental in nature and the Military Governor reserves
the right further to limit the jurisdiction of the courts or to close
them entirely, if that course shall be necessary."
Sept. 4, 1942. General Orders No. 135 enumerated the criminal
offenses involving crimes against the Government or related to the
war effort, in respect to which the courts were not authorized to
exercise jurisdiction.
Feb. 8, 1943. Governor Stainback, who succeeded Governor Poindexter, issued a public proclamation providing that, although martial

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

355

BuRToN, J., dissenting.

to five years' imprisonment, later reduced to four. In so
far as the issue relates to his case, and in the light of the
evident consideration that the Commanding General was
giving to the restoration of civil control to the courts, I am
unable to hold as a matter of law that, through not acting
more quickly and less cautiously, he violated his constitutional discretion when on December 16, 1941, he authorized the civil courts to open to a limited extent for the
trial of limited classes of cases not requiring jury trials or
the subpoenaing of witnesses, or when on January 27,
1942, he authorized the civil courts, as agents of the Mililaw and suspension of the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus were
to remain in effect, the Governor and other civil agencies would resume their respective jurisdictions, including criminal and civil proceedings, except for criminal proceedings against members of the
armed forces and civil suits against them for acts or omissions in
the line of duty and criminal prosecutions for violations of military
orders, except as these exceptions might be waived by the Commanding General in any particular case or class of 'cases.
Feb. 8, 1943. General Emmons, the Military Governor, issued a
public proclamation relinquishing to the Governor and other civilian
officers of the Territory the functions set forth in the Governor's
proclamation.
Mar. 10, 1943. General Emmons issued a revised set of General
Orders Nos. 1 to 14, and rescinded General Orders Nos. 1 to 181,
issued under prior proclamations. General Orders No. 2 vested
provost courts and military commissions with jurisdiction to try any
case involving violations by a civilian of "rules, regulations, proclamations, or Orders of the Military or Naval authorities, or of the Military Governor of the Territory of Hawaii, or of the laws of war,"
and to impose a fine, imprisonment or both. Maximum punishment
was to be confinement at hard labor for five years, or a fine of five
thousand dollars or both.
Oct. 19, 1944. The President issued Proclamation No. 2627 providing that, effective Oct. 24, 1944, the privilege of the writ of habeas
corpus was restored and martial law terminated and directing the
Governor to issue a proclamation accordingly.
Oct. 24, 1944. The Governor issued a proclamation which proclaimed that "the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus is restored
and that martial law is terminated in the Territory of Hawaii."

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON, J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

tary Government, to exercise their normal functions except for jury trials, writs of habeas corpus and other
specified classes of cases, and when, on August 31, 1942,
he extended their jurisdiction to jury trials such as would
have applied to the petitioner White. Even on that date,
in General Orders No. 133,1 he found expressly that "martial law has been declared and the emergency which called
it forth still prevails,"
The petitioner Duncan was convicted on March 2, 1944,
of maliciously assaulting and beating two marines on
February 24, 1944, with intent to prevent their performance of their duties as sentries at the main gate of the
Pearl Harbor Navy Yard. For this offense he was sentenced to six months in jail. At this time civilian agencies
had resumed most of their peace time jurisdiction, including criminal and civil proceedings, except for criminal
proceedings against members of the armed forces, civil
suits against them for acts or omissions in line of duty
and criminal prosecutions of violations of military orders.
The close relationship of these items to the military functions of the armed forces on the Islands indicates the
reasonableness of their exception. Even these exceptions
were removed in October, 1944, when martial law was
terminated. I find it impossible under these circumstances
to hold that the President and the military authorities
violated the discretion vested in them to insure the safety
of the Islands in time of war, invasion and threatened invasion, in that they failed to terminate martial law so completely before March 2, 1944, that a civilian, who attacked
marines on duty as sentries at the main gate of the Pearl
Harbor Navy Yard, could insist upon a trial in the local
criminal courts as distinguished from the local provost
court which had exercised jurisdiction over such cases
throughout the Japanese war which was still actively in
progress.
7See

Footnotes 2 and 6.

DUNCAN v. KAHANAMOKU.
304

BURTON, J., dissenting.

Now that the war has been won and the safety of the
Islands has been again assured, there is opportunity, in
the calm light of peace, for the readjustment of sentences
imposed upon civilians and military personnel during the
emergency of war and which have not yet expired. It is
important, however, that in reviewing the constitutionality of the conduct of our agencies of government in time
of war, invasion and threatened invasion, we do not now
make precedents which in other emergencies may handicap the executive branch of the Government in the performance of duties allotted to it by the Constitution and
by the exercise of which it successfully defended the
nation against the greatest attack ever made upon it.
One way to test the soundness of a decision today that
the trial of petitioner White on August 25, 1942, before
a provost court on a charge of embezzlement and the trial
of petitioner Duncan on March 2, 1944, before a similar
court on a charge of maliciously assaulting marine sentries were unconstitutional procedures, is to ask ourselves
whether or not on those dates, with the war against Japan
in full swing, this Court would have, or should have,
granted a writ of habeas corpus, an injunction or a writ
of prohibition to release the petitioners or otherwise to
oust the provost courts of their claimed jurisdiction. Such
a test emphasizes the issue. I believe that this Court
would not have been justified in granting the relief suggested at such times. Also I believe that this Court might
well have found itself embarrassed had it ordered such
relief and then had attempted to enforce its order in the
theatre of military operations, at a time when the area
was under martial law and the writ of habeas corpus was
still suspended, all in accordance with the orders of the
President of the United States and the Governor of Hawaii
issued under their interpretation of the discretion and responsibility vested in them by the Constitution of the
United States and by the Organic Act of Hawaii enacted
by Congress.

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

327 U. S.

In order to have the benefit of the full strength of our
Constitution, both in time of peace and in time of war, it
is necessary to protect the authority of our legislative and

executive officials, as well as that of our courts, in the performance of their respective obligations to help to "establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the
common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure

the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity."
SOCIAL SECURITY BOARD v. NIEROTKO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 318.

Argued December 12, 1945.-Decided February 25, 1946.

1. "Back pay" awarded under the National Labor Relations Act
to an employee who was found to have been wrongfully discharged
is to be treated under the Social Security Act as "wages" for which
the employee is entitled to credit on his Old Age and Survivors
Insurance Account. Pp. 359, 364.
(a) The treatment of such back pay as wages under the Social
Security Act is required by that Act's definitions of wages as "remuneration for employment" and of employment as "any service,
of whatever nature, performed ... by any employee for his
employer." P. 364.
(b) The word "service," as used in the Act's definition of employment, means not only work actually performed but the entire
employer-employee relationship for which compensation is paid
to the employee by the employer. Pp. 365-366.
(c) The construction of the Social Security Act by the Social
Security Board, whereby "back pay" is excluded from "wages," is
unsound and goes beyond the permissible limits of administrative
interpretation. P. 367.
(d) Administrative determinations must have a basis in law
and be within the authority granted the administrative agency.
P. 369.
(e) An administrative agency may not finally determine the
scope of its statutory power; that is a judicial function. P. 369.
*2. "Back pay" treated as "wages" under the Social Security Act
should be allocated to the periods for which the wages ordinarily
would have been paid. P. 370.

