614

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

formed, expert judgment.

327 U. S.

The Commission is entitled

not only to appraise the facts of the particular case and

the dangers of the marketing methods employed (Federal
Trade Commission v. Winsted Hosiery Co., 258 U. S. 483,
494) but to draw from its generalized experience. See
Republic Aviation Corp. v. Labor Board, 324 U. S. 793,
801-805. Its expert opinion is entitled to great weight in
the reviewing courts. But the courts are not ready to pass
on the question whether the limits of discretion have been

exceeded in the choice of the remedy until the administrative determination is first made.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to

the Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

M. KRAUS & BROS., INC. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 198.

Argued December 14, 1945.-Decided March 25, 1946.

1. Section 1429.5 of Revised Maximum Price Regulation No. 269
(issued December 18, 1942, under the Emergency Price Control
Act)-which provides that the price limitations on poultry prescribed by the regulation shall not be evaded by any method, direct
or indirect, whether in connection with any offer or sale of a priceregulated commodity alone "or in conjunction with any other commodity," or by way of any trade understanding "or otherwise"held not to forbid all tie-in sales but only those which involve
secondary products that are worthless or that are sold at artificial
prices. Pp. 622-626.
2. Where the information in a criminal prosecution for violations of
Revised Maximum Price Regulation No. 269 charged that the

KRAUS & BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
614

615

Statement of the Case.

accused "unlawfully, wilfully and knowingly evaded the provisions
of" the regulation "by demanding, compelling and requiring" the
retail buyer to purchase chicken feet or chicken skins at a specified
price as a condition of the sale of poultry and there was evidence
that the chicken skins and feet sold had value and were sold at
their market price, a charge by the trial judge that the "one"
question in the case was whether the sale of chicken parts was a
necessary condition to the purchase of the poultry was a reversible
error; since the jury may well have disregarded as irrelevant the
evidence of value as to the secondary product and convicted solely
on the ground that there was a tie-in sale. P. 626.
3. In order to sustain a criminal conviction, regulations prescribed
by the Price Administrator under § 2 (g) of the Emergency Price
Control Act to prevent circumvention or evasion of price limitations must be explicit and unambiguous and must adequately inform
those who are subject to their terms what conduct will be considered
evasive--the dividing line between unlawful evasion and lawful
action can not be left to conjecture. P. 621.
4. A prosecutor in framing an indictment, a court in interpreting the
Administrator's regulations, or a jury in judging guilt can not supply
that which the Administrator failed to do by express word or fair
implication. P. 622.
5. Nor can the Administrator's interpretations of his own regulations cure an omission or add certainty and definiteness to otherwise
vague language of a regulation. P. 622.
6. A criminal conviction for violation of an administrative regulation
ought not to rest upon an administrative interpretation reached by
the use of policy judgment rather than by the inexorable command
of relevant language of the regulation itself. P. 626.
7. Where correct statements in a charge to a jury are so intertwined
with incorrect statements as to negative the effect of the correct
statements, the charge is a reversible error; since a conviction
ought not to rest on an equivocal direction to the jury on a basic
issue. Bollenbach v. United States, 326 U. S. 607. Pp. 626, 627.

Petitioner was convicted of violating Revised Maximum
Price Regulation No. 269, promulgated by the Price Administrator pursuant to the Emergency Price Control Act.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 149 F. 2d 773.
This Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 699. Remanded
for new trial. P. 627.

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of MuRPHY, J.

327 U. S.

Thomas Turner Cooke argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief was I. Jonas Speciner.
W. Marvin Smith argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath,
Robert S. Erdahl and Beatrice Rosenberg.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY announced the conclusion and
judgment of the Court.
The problem here is whether the petitioner corporation
was properly convicted of a crime under the Emergency
Price Control Act of 1942.'
The petitioner is engaged in the wholesale meat and
poultry business in New York City. Poultry is a commodity subject to the provisions of Revised Maximum
Price Regulation No. 269,2 promulgated by the Price
Administrator pursuant to § 2 (a) of the Emergency Price
Control Act of 1942. Two informations, each containing
six counts, were filed against petitioner. Each count
alleged that, as an integral part of a specified sale of poultry on a day during the Thanksgiving season in November,
1943, the petitioner "unlawfully, wilfully and knowingly
evaded the provisions of said Revised Maximum Price
Regulation No. 269, Sec. 1429.5, by demanding, compelling
and requiring" the retail buyer to purchase chicken feet
or chicken skin at a specified price as a condition of the
sale of the poultry. Petitioner's president was named as
a co-defendant in the first information and the two
informations were consolidated for trial purposes.
The theory of the Government is that the petitioner was
guilty of an evasion of the price limitations Set forth in
this particular regulation if it required the purchase of
chicken feet and skin as a necessary condition to obtaining
the primary commodity, the poultry. This practice is
'56 Stat. 23; 50 U. S. C. App. § 901 et seq.
27

Fed. Reg. 10708; reissued with amendments, 8 Fed. Reg. 138 3.

KRAUS & BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
614

617

Opinion of MURPHY, J.

commonly known as a "combination sale" or a "tying
agreement." It is argued that the petitioner thereby received for the poultry the ceiling price plus the price of the
secondary commodities, the chicken parts.
The evidence was undisputed that the poultry was billed
by petitioner at ceiling prices fixed by the Price Administrator and that no ceiling prices had been set for chicken
feet or chicken skin. It was also undisputed that the demand for poultry during the Thanksgiving season far exceeded the supply and that petitioner voluntarily imposed
a rationing system among its customers.
The Government's case rested primarily upon the testimony of seven retail butchers who had purchased poultry
and poultry parts from petitioner during the period in
question. Only one of them testified explicitly that the
sale of poultry to him had been conditioned upon the sale
of poultry parts which he did not want and for which there
was no consumer demand. His testimony, however, was
disbelieved by the jury since it acquitted the petitioner
on the two counts involving sales to him. With two exceptions, the other butchers testified either that the feet
and skins were loaded on their trucks without previous
order or solicitation along with the poultry or that they
were billed for both the poultry and the parts without
comment. Five of them stated that they sold a small
amount of the chicken parts and gave away the balance;
one remarked that he could not sell any parts and was
forced to dump them. There was no explicit evidence that
any of the butchers protested, sought to return the chicken
parts or asked to buy the poultry separately. It was
reasonable, however, for the jury to find that the sale of
poultry was conditioned upon the simultaneous sale of
the chicken parts and no contrary claim is made before us.
Several times the petitioner tried to introduce testimony establishing that there was a demand for chicken
parts and that they were of value. Petitioner's counsel

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of MURPHY, J.

327 U.S.

stated that "The government has inferred through all of
its testimony that chicken skin and chicken feet are so
much waste, that they are dumped; that they are not
used and they have opened up the door to this type of
testimony." But the trial judge ruled that the Government had not put that matter in issue and that the "only
thing we are concerned with is whether or not the witnesses
who testified purchased chicken feet to meet a demand in
their stores." He accordingly refused to admit the proffered testimony from petitioner's witnesses, stating to
petitioner's counsel that "I direct you not to put them on
the stand . .
On cross examination, however, petitioner's president
-was questioned as to the resale value of chicken skins from
the retailer to the general public. He stated that the
value was from 25 to 30 cents a pound and that the skin
was used to make chicken fat. He also testified that
chicken feet had a resale value of from 12 to 16 cents a
pound and were used in making soup and gelatin. He
further stated that the demand for chicken feet came from
retail butchers such as had been on the stand. Petitioner's counsel then recalled one of the retail butchers
whose testimony previously had been excluded by the
court. He testified that he had bought chicken feet from
the petitioner, had "created a demand" for them in his
store, and had sold them for from 15 to 20 cents a pound.
No further witnesses were called in regard to the retail
value of chicken feet and skins.
In submitting the case to the jury, the judge stated that
"what these defendants are charged with having done is
imposing as a necessary condition to the purchase of turkeys the simultaneous purchase of gizzards, chicken feet
or chicken skin, that were utterly useless and valueless to
the purchasers. In order to violate the law these defendants must have made more than the fixed price of
37 cents on the chickens, or the turkey price of 40 to 45

KRAUS & BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
614

Opinion of

619

MURPHY, J.

cents. And the testimony about the use of these additional articles sold, the use that can be made of them, will
enable you to determine that they were sold at pricesand the prices are on all these slips that are in evidenceentirely out of line with any value that attaches to them,
so that it is almost entirely profit to these defendants, and
in doing that, by making the purchase of these things at
the prices fixed, the defendants both realized a greater
consideration than the Office of Price Administration
allows for the commodity sold." He also told the jury
that the "one question in the case is whether the sale of
the chicken skin and feet was a necessary condition to the
purchase of the other [poultry]."
The jury acquitted petitioner's president but convicted
the petitioner on nine counts. Petitioner was fined $2,500
on each count, a total of $22,500. The conviction was
affirmed by the court below, one judge dissenting because
of the exclusion of petitioner's proffered testimony. 149
F. 2d 773. In our opinion, however, the conviction must
be set aside.
Section 205 (b) of the Emergency Price Control Act of
1942 imposes criminal sanctions on "Any person who willfully violates any provision of section 4 of this Act . . ."
Section 4 (a) of the Act in turn provides that "It shall
be unlawful . . . for any person to sell or deliver any
commodity, . . . in violation of any regulation or order
under section 2 . . ." Section 2 (a) authorizes the Price
Administrator under prescribed conditions to establish by
regulation or order such maximum prices "as in his judgment will be generally fair and equitable and will effectuate the purposes of this Act." Section 2 (g) further states
that "Regulations, orders, and requirements under this
Act may contain such provisions as the Administrator
deems necessary to prevent the circumvention or evasion
thereof."
The Price Administrator, pursuant to § 2 (a), issued
Revised Maximum Price Regulation No. 269 on Decem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of MuRPny, J.

327 U. S.

her 18, 1942,' which regulation was in effect at the time
the poultry sales in question were made. Section 1429.5
of this regulation, referred to in the informations, stems
from § 2 (g) of the Act. It is entitled "Evasion" and
reads as follows: "Price limitations set forth in this Revised Maximum Price Regulation No. 269 shall not be
evaded whether by direct or indirect methods, in connection with any offer, solicitation, agreement, sale, delivery,
purchase or receipt of, or relating to, the commodities
prices of which are herein regulated, alone or in conjunction with any other commodity, or by way of commission,
service, transportation, or other charge, or discount, premium, or other privilege or other trade understanding or
otherwise."
The manifest purpose of Congress in enacting this statute was to preserve and protect the economic balance of
the nation during a period of grave emergency, thereby
achieving the prevention of inflation and its consequences
enumerated in § 1. Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S.
414, 423. That aim was implemented by criminal sanctions to be imposed on those who deliberately choose to
ignore the national welfare in this respect by selling commodities at prices above established levels. As appears
from a combined reading of §§ 205 (b), 4 (a) and 2 (a),
criminal liability attaches to any one who willfully sells
commodities in violation of a regulation or order of the
Price Administrator establishing maximum prices. ' Cf.
United States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677. Recognizing that
3Reissued with amendments on October 8, 1943. See note 2.
Section 205 (b) is somewhat inartistically drawn. It does not
specifically impose criminal liability on those who violate the regulations and orders of the Administrator. But the hurdle of United
States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677, is cleared by the reference in § 205 (b)
to § 4, which makes it unlawful, among other things, to sell or deliver
any commodity in violation of any regulation or order. See In re
Kollock, 165 U. S. 526; United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506;
United States v. George, 228 U. S. 14; Singer v. United States, 323
4

KRAUS & BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
614

Opinion of MURPHY,

621

J.

sales at above-ceiling prices may be accomplished by
devious as well as by direct means, Congress in § 2 (g)
authorized the Administrator to make provisions against
circumvention and evasion of maximum prices. Hence
one who willfully sells commodities at prices above the
maximum in an evasive manner specified by the Administrator subjects oneself to criminal liability. These statutory warnings are clear and unambiguous. When incorporated with such definite and clear regulations and orders
as the Administrator may promulgate, the provisions of
the Act leave no doubt as to the conduct that will render
one liable to criminal penalties.
This delegation to the Price Administrator of the power
to provide in detail against circumvention and evasion, as
to which Congress has imposed criminal sanctions, creates
a grave responsibility. In a very literal sense the liberties
and fortunes of others may depend upon his definitions and
specifications regarding evasion. Hence to these provisions must be applied the same strict rule of construction
that is applied to statutes defining criminal action. In
other words, the Administrator's provisions must be explicit and unambiguous in order to sustain a criminal
prosecution; they must adequately inform those who are
subject to their terms what conduct will be considered
evasive so as to bring the criminal penalties of the Act into
operation. See United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76,
94-96. The dividing line between unlawful evasion and
lawful action cannot be left to conjecture. The elements
of evasive conduct should be so clearly expressed by the
U. S. 338. Congress has subsequently emphasized this reference even
more clearly when, in adding § 204 (e) (1) to the Emergency Price
Control Act, it spoke of a criminal proceeding "brought pursuant to
section 205 involving alleged violation of any provision of any regulation or order issued under section 2 . . ." § 107 (b), Stabilization Ex-

tension Act of 1944, 58 Stat. 639. See also § 6, Act of June 30, 1945,
c. 214, 59 Stat. 306, 308, amending § 204 (e) (1) of the Emergency
Price Control Act.

622

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of MURPHY, J.

327 U. S.

Administrator that the ordinary person can know in
advance how to avoid an unlawful course of action.
In applying this strict rule of construction to the provisions adopted by the Administrator, courts must take
care not to construe so strictly as to defeat the obvious
intention of the Administrator. Words used by him to
describe evasive action are to be given their natural and
plain meaning, supplemented by contemporaneous or
long-standing interpretations publicly made by the Administrator. But patent omissions and uncertainties cannot be disregarded when dealing with a criminal prosecution. A prosecutor in framing an indictment, a court in
interpreting the Administrator's regulations or a jury in
judging guilt cannot supply that which the Administrator
failed to do by express word or fair implication. Not even
the Administrator's interpretations of his own regulations
can cure an omission or add certainty and definiteness to
otherwise vague language. The prohibited conduct must,
for criminal purposes, be set forth with clarity in the
regulations and orders which he is authorized by Congress
to promulgate under the Act. Congress has warned the
public to look to that source alone to discover what conduct is evasive and hence likely to create criminal liability. United States v. Resnick, 299 U. S. 207.
In light of these principles we are unable to sustain
this conviction of the petitioner based upon § 1429.5 of
Revised Maximum Price Regulation No. 269. For purposes of this case we must assume that the Administrator
legally could include tying agreements and combination
sales involving the sale of valuable secondary commodities at their market value among the prohibited evasion
devices. Any problem as to his power so to provide would
have to be raised initially in a proceeding before the
Emergency Court of Appeals. Lockerty v. Phillips, 319
U. S. 182; Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S. 414, 427-431;
Bowles v. Seminole Rock Co., 325 U. S. 410, 418-419;

KRAUS & BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
614

623

Opinion of Muapu, J.

Case v. Bowles, 327 U. S. 92, 98. The only issue bearing
upon the regulation which is open in this criminal proceeding is whether the Administrator did in fact clearly
and unmistakably prohibit tying agreements of this nature by virtue of the language he used in § 1429.5. That
issue we answer in the negative.'
Section 1429.5, so far as here pertinent, provides that
price limitations shall not be evaded by any method,
direct or indirect, whether in connection with any offer
or sale of a price-regulated commodity alone "or in conjunction with any other commodity," or by way of any
trade understanding "or otherwise." No specific mention
is made of tying agreements or combination sales.
It is urged by the Government that this language fits the
type of tying agreement allegedly used by petitioner. The
contention is that petitioner received for the primary commodity not only the ceiling price but also the price of the
secondary commodities which the retailers were required to
buy. Conversely, the retailers were compelled to pay not
only the ceiling price but also the price of the secondary
commodities in order to secure the primary commodity,
the poultry. Under this theory it is immaterial whether
the secondary products, the chicken parts, had any value
to the retailers or whether their price was a reasonable one.
Reference is made in this respect to § 302 (b) of the Act,
defining price as "the consideration demanded or received
in connection with the sale of a commodity." Hence it is
concluded that the price limitation on the primary commodity was evaded "in conjunction with any other commodity" within the meaning of § 1429.5. This argument,
moreover, represents the consistent interpretation of the
Administrator.6
5 Cf. United States v. George F. Fish, Inc., 154 F. 2d 798.

6The Price Administrator has consistently maintained the position
that compulsion to purchase a secondary product is an evasion. of the
maximum prices fixed for the primary product. Thus, in an inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of MuRPHY, J.

327 U. S.

But we do not believe that, under the strict rule of construction previously discussed, such an interpretation of
§ 1429.5 is dictated by its plain language. It prohibits
evasions through sales of price-regulated commodities "in
conjunction with any other commodity." That clearly
and undeniably prohibits evasions through the use of
tying agreements where the tied-in commodity is worthless or is sold at an artificial price, thereby hiding an
above-ceiling price for the primary commodity. But to
say that the language covers more, that it also applies to a
case where the secondary product has value and is sold at
its ceiling or market price, is to introduce an element of
conjecture and to give-effect to an unstated judgment of
policy.
The language of § 1429.5 is appropriate to and consistent with a desire on the Administrator's part to prohibit
only those tying agreements involving tied-in commodities that are worthless or that are sold at artificial prices.
pretation issued November 5, 1943, applicable to all maximum price
regulations, the Administrator, in discussing violations and evasions,
made the following interpretation as to tying agreements:
"(a) As to freeze regulations:A purchaser may not be required to
buy a combination of commodities if he was not required to do so
during the base period, because such an arrangement is a tying agreement which results in the seller receiving a larger consideration for his
commodity than he charged during the base period.
"(b) As to regulations other than base period freeze regulations:
OPA has also consistently held that any arrangement by which a seller
conditions the sale of a commodity in any manner upon the purchase
by the buyer of any other commodity is a tying agreement, and comstitutes a violation.
"For example, it. is a.violation for a seller to compel a purchaser of
a load ofcorn to also purchase a load of alfalfa, even though the total
pjice for the corn, plus the alfalfa, does not exceed the aggregate of the
ceiling price for each item, or another example: It is a violation for a
seller to compel a purchaser of nylon hose to also purchase a war
bond."
0. P.. A,: Service (Pike'&. Fischer) vol. Ip. 2: 812.

KRAUS & BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
614

Opinion of

625

MuRPHY, J.

The Administrator may have thought that other tied-in
sales did not constitute a sufficient threat to the price
economy of the nation to warrant their outlawry, or that
they were such an established trade custom that they
should be recognized. But we are told that he had no
such thought, that prohibition of all tying agreements is
essential to prevent profiteering, and that this blanket
prohibition is the only policy consistent with the purposes
of the Act. All of this may well be true. But these are
administrative judgments with which the courts have no
concern in a criminal proceeding. We must look solely to
the language actually used in § 1429.5. And when we do
we are unable to say that the Administrator has made his
position in this respect self-evident from the language
used.
The Administrator's failure to express adequately his
intentions in § 1429.5 is emphasized by the complete and
unmistakable language he has used in other price regulations to prohibit all tying agreements, including those
involving the sale of valuable secondary products. Thus
he has inserted in the meat regulation a provision prohibiting evasion of price limitations by "offering, selling
or delivering beef, veal or any processed product on condition that the purchaser is required to purchase some
other commodity." § 1364.406, Revised Maximum Price
Regulation No. 169, as amended March 30, 1943, 8 Fed.
Reg. 4099. And in the clothing regulation, the Administrator has provided that "No manufacturer shall make a
sale of garments which is conditioned directly or indirectly
on the purchase of any other commodity or service." § 15,
Revised Maximum Price Regulation No. 287, issued June
29, 1943,8 Fed. Reg. 9126. See also § 1389.555, Maximum
Price Regulation No. 330, as amended August 7, 1943, 8
Fed. Reg. 11041.
The very definiteness with which tying agreements of
all types were prohibited in regard to many other com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of MuRPHY,J.

327 U. S.

modities and the absence of any such prohibition in
§ 1429.5 of Revised Maximum Price Regulation No. 269
might well have led a reasonable man to believe that tying
agreements involving the sale of a valuable secondary
commodity at its market price were permissible in the
poultry business when the transactions in question took
place., Certainly the language used by the Administrator
did not compel the opposite conclusion. And certainly
a criminal conviction ought not to rest upon an interpretation reached by the use of policy judgments rather than
by the inexorable command of relevant language.
In view of these considerations we interpret § 1429.5 as
prohibiting only those tying agreements involving secondary products that are worthless or that are sold at artifi~ial prices. It follows that the conviction below cannot
stand. While the informations can be interpreted as
charging a crime under § 1429.5 as we have read it, the
trial judge's charge to the jury was clearly erroneous.
There was evidence, at first excluded but later admitted,
that the chicken parts which the petitioner sold did have
value and were sold at their market price. If the jury
believed such evidence it was entitled to acquit the petitioner. But the trial judge charged that the "one" question in the case was whether the sale of the chicken parts
was a necessary condition to the purchase of the poultry.
On the basis of that charge the jury may well have disregarded as irrelevant the evidence of value as to the secondary products and convicted solely on the ground that
there was a tie-in sale. Such a charge is thus reversible
error.
There were additional statements in the charge to the
jury, to be sure, that the petitioner was charged with
having compelled, in connection with the purchase of
poultry, the simultaneous purchase of chicken parts "that
were utterly useless and valueless to the purchasers" and
at prices "entirely out of line with any value that attaches

KRAUS & BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
614

DOUGLAS, J.,

627

concurring.

to them." While such statements tended to charge a
violation of § 1429.5, as properly interpreted, they were so
intertwined with the incorrect charge as to negative their
effect. "A conviction ought not to rest on an equivocal
direction to the jury on a basic issue." Bollenbach v.
UnitedStates, 326 U. S.607, 613.
The case must therefore be remanded for a new trial,
allowing full opportunity for the introduction of evidence
as to the value of the chicken parts and charging the jury
in accordance with the proper interpretation of § 1429.5.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
concurring.
If a retailer sold meat or any other commodity to a
consumer only on condition that he purchase and pay for
a wholly worthless article, it would be clear that price
ceilings had been violated. For the attribution of value
to the worthless article would be nothing more than an
evasive method of increasing the ceiling price on the other
commodity. I can see no difference where the additional
commodity, although it has value, has no value to the
purchaser.
But this case is different in both respects or so the jury
might find. First, chicken gizzards, chicken skin, or
chicken feet are not wholly worthless articles. There is
demand for them and they have a value. Second, they
were tied-in with sales to retailers who constitute the
market for chicken gizzards, chicken skin, and chicken
feet. If in fact they had no value on that market, evasion
of price ceilings would be established. But since they
apparently had some value on the retail market, no violation of price ceilings occurred unless the price charged
for them in fact exceeded that market value. That might
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

628

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE, J.,

concurring.

327 U. S.

be shown either by proof of the fact that the market value
was lower or by showing that the quantity forced on the
retailers was in excess of the quantity which the market
could absorb.
The case should be remanded for a new trial on that
basis. For the trial court ruled that the additional articles
sold were valueless and that the "one question in the case
is whether the sale of the chicken skin and feet was a
necessary condition to the purchase of the other." That
ruling took from the jury the basic issue in the case.
I think there was evidence that these chicken gizzards,
chicken skin, and chicken feet were valueless to some of
the retailers and that a conviction would be warranted.
But it is not enough that we conclude on the whole record
that a defendant is guilty. Bollenbach v. United States,
326 U. S. 607. The jury under our constitutional system
is the tribunal selected for the ascertainment of guilt.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring.

I am in agreement with the result and substantially so

with MR. JUSTICE MURPHY'S opinion. I do not think that
administrative regulations, given by statute the function
of defining the substance of criminal conduct, should have
broader or more inclusive construction than statutes performing the same function. If the regulations involved
here had been enacted specifically by Congress in statutory form, I do not think they could properly be construed
to forbid tie-in sales of these commodities per se.
As the opinion points out, the regulations, with reference to other commodities, expressly prohibited tie-in
sales, regardless of whether the tied-in commodity had
value. Persons dealing in those commodities were specifically informed by the regulations, therefore, that such
sales would be in violation of the Act. There was no such
specific prohibition applicable at the time of the sales in
question to sales of poultry. However the general pro-

KRAUS & BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
614

629

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

hibition against evasion contained in § 1429.5 of Revised
Maximum Price Regulation No. 269 might be interpreted,
if there had been no regulations specifically forbidding
tie-in sales of other commodities, in view of their existence
and the absence of any similar provision relating to
poultry, I do not think it permissible to construe § 1429.5
as covering the same ground. Persons reading the regulations to determine what conduct had been forbidden
were entitled in my opinion to conclude that the Administrator, whenever he thought tie-in sales were per se evasive
or in violation of the Act's policy, had expressly so stated
and conversely that where he had not expressly forbidden
the practice, it was not to be understood as prohibited by
general language applicable to many other types of situation but not specifically to this one. This view, I think,
would be required if the regulations had been enacted in
statutory form. As regulations they cannot be given
broader content.
Accordingly I agree with the conclusion that tie-in sales
were not forbidden at the time of these sales, as to poultry.
I also agree that the trial court, both in its instructions
and in some of its rulings upon the admissibility of evidence, went on a conception of the law inconsistent with
this view. I therefore concur in the Court's disposition
of the cause.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, although agreeing with the
opinion of MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, also joins in this
opinion.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting.
We were at war in 1943. Scarcity of food had become
an acute problem throughout the nation. To keep the
public from being gouged the Government had set ceiling
prices on food items. Congress had made it a crime to
sell food above these ceiling prices. When Thanksgiving
Day approached there were not enough turkeys to supply

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

the demand of the many American families who wanted
to celebrate in the customary style.
The information filed in the District Court charged that
the petitioner "unlawfully, wilfully and knowingly evaded
the provisions of . . ." Revised Maximum Price Regulation No. 269, § 1429.5, by compelling and requiring the
buyer to purchase chicken feet, chicken skin, or gizzards
at a specified price, as a condition of the sale of poultry
to them. During peace times the petitioner had ordinarily
done a gross business of seven-and-a-half million dollars
a year. In 1943, presumably due to the meat shortage
incident to the war, the petitioner's gross business was not
quite four million dollars. This meat shortage was felt
acutely during the Thanksgiving season, when petitioner
instead of his usual 100 to 150 cars of turkeys received only
one car. When the retail butchers and poultry market
proprietors came clamoring for their share of the small
supply (which the defendant rationed among them) they
found that along with the turkeys which they wanted so
badly petitioner gave and charged them for large amounts
of chicken feet, skins and gizzards which they had not
asked for at all and which for the most part they had never
before sold as separate items. While the butchers paid
in addition to the ceiling price charged for the turkeys the
price charged for the chicken skins and feet, they did so
only because they understood that unless they bought
these unwanted items they could get no turkeys. Only
one of the butchers sold all the chicken skins to his customers. He explained that he operated his store in a
poor neighborhood where the food shortage had become
so acute that people were willing to buy anything they
could get. As to the rest of the butchers, some simply
dumped the chicken skins and feet while others, after
diligent efforts, sold a few pounds and then gave the rest
away either to their customers, or to charitable institutions. Certainly these particular butchers forced to buy

KRAUS & BROS. v. UNITED STATES.
614

631

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

these unwanted items for the first time were not the regular retail outlet for disjointed chicken feet and peeled
chicken skins, if there ever was such an outlet on a voluntary basis. It is clear therefore that as a result of petitioner's forcing his customers to buy the feet and skins
along with the turkeys, the retailers' cost price of the
turkeys was in effect increased beyond the ceiling.
In my opinion petitioner's practice in forcing the
butchers to buy unwanted chicken feet in order to get
wanted turkeys amounted to a direct violation of the
Price Control Act. It certainly was no less a violation of
the Administrator's regulation against evasion. In promulgating this regulation the Administrator could not possibly foresee every ingenious scheme or artifice the business
mind might contrive to shroud violations of the Price
Control Act. The regulation does not specifically describe
all manner of evasive device. The term "tying agreement" nowhere appears in it, and a discussion of such
agreements is irrelevant. We need not decide whether
what petitioner did would have violated every possible
hypothetical regulation the Administrator might have
promulgated. The regulation here involved prohibits
every evasion of the Price Control Act. It thus condemns
all actions that are "on the wrong side of the line indicated
by the policy if not by the mere letter of the law." Bullen
v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625, 631. What petitioner did
here is on the wrong side of both letter and policy. The
Court does not deny that there was ample evidence to
support the jury's finding that petitioner did what the
information charged it with doing. In my opinion that
was a crime.
Had butchers been required to buy bags of stones as a
condition to buying turkeys, I think it would have been
hard to persuade them, or anybody else, that the seller who
forced them to do so was not guilty of violating and evading the law. Had people who wanted and needed bacon,

632

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

327 U. S.

at the time when bacon was almost impossible to purchase,
been required to buy hog hoofs and hog skins with each
purchase of a pound of bacon, I think the sellers would
have violated the law. If the wholesaler can require the
retailer to purchase unwanted items the retailer can force
the ordinary consumer to do the same thing. A restaurant could then force its customers to purchase used
kitchen fats along with their meals. It would be little
consolation to a customer forced to do so to learn that soap
factories can use these fats and would be willing to purchase them. He would pay the price, and either dump the
fat into the nearest ash can or tell the waiter to take the
smelly substance away. The result would be increased
cost of meals in that restaurant. Thinly disguised subterfuges like the one here adopted should not be sanctioned
by courts. Once they are sanctioned, laws enacted by
Congress for the public welfare are no longer respected.
When food is scarce and people are hungry it is a violation, both of the letter and spirit of the Price Control laws,
to require consumers or retail stores where they make their
purchases, to buy things that they neither need nor want
as a condition to obtaining articles which they must have.
I dissent from the Court's disposition of this case.
MR. JUSTICE REED

opinion.

and MR.

JUSTICE BURTON join in

this

