McCLOSKEY v. McGRATH.
Opinion of the Court.

McCLOSKEY, SHERIFF, v. McGRATH, ATTORNEY
GENERAL, SUCCESSOR TO THE ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND

No. 324.

CIR(UIT.

Argued February 28, 1951.-Decided May' 28, 1951.

Petitioner is the sheriff who levied the attachments against accounts
of German nationals "frozen" under Executive Orders Nos. 8785
and 8389, which were involved in the two preceding decisions
(Zittman v. McGrath, ante, pp. 446, 471). His claim for his fees
was denied by the courts below incidentally to their denial of the
rights asserted by the attaching creditors. Held: The judgment is
reversed insofar as the fees of the sheriff relate to the accounts
to which the Custodian was held not entitled to possession, and
affirmed insofar as they relate to the accounts to which the
Custodian was held entitled to possession-without prejudice to
certain rights of the sheriff as indicated in the opinion. Pp.
475-478.
182 F. 2d 349, affirmed in part and reversed in part.

Petitioner's claim to his fees as sheriff were denied by
the courts below incidentally to the denial of the rights
asserted by the attaching creditors. 82 F. Supp. 740; 182
F. 2d 349. This Court granted certiorari. 340 U. S. 882.
Reversed in part and affirmed in part, p. 478.
Sidney Posner argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Ralph S. Spritzer argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman,
Assistant Attorney General Baynton, James L. Morrisson

and George B. Searls.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case is a dependent companion to the four preceding cases, Nos. 298 and 314, ante, p. 446, and Nos. 299

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of the Court.

341 U. S.

and 315, ante, p. 471. The petitioner is the sheriff who
levied the attachments involved in those cases. He was
impleaded by the Custodian as a party defendant, and
his amended answer, after adopting the position of his
co-defendants and urging dismissal of the Custodian's
petition, as an alternative asked: "That if the Court
determines that the petitioner is entitled to possession
of the property attached by the Sheriff pursuant to the
Zittman and McCarthy attachments, any decree to be
entered thereon should provide for payment of the
Sheriff's statutory poundage fees arising from said attachments . . . ." His claim was denied by the courts below
incidentally to their denial of the rights asserted by
the attaching creditors. The District Court said only:
"Because the attachments by the sheriff did not transfer
any right, title or interest in the blocked property, his
application for payment of his fees by the Custodian
must be denied."' The Court of Appeals affirmed, per
curiam, on the ground stated by the District Court.2
The precise status of the sheriff's claims under New
York law, if they have been settled, is not made clear
to us by the record, and, under the circumstances of this
case, we cannot presume to say, nor could the District
Court, what the New York courts would allow to the
sheriff.' Nor can we ascertain from the record the extent
'82 F. Supp. 740, 742-743.
2 182

F. 2d 349.

3 The judgment creditors were entitled to costs of course when
judgment was rendered in their favor. N. Y. Civ. Prac. Act § 1470
(11). They were entitled to include in their bills of costs, and
hence in their judgments, necessary disbursements, which may include certain sheriff's fees. Id. § 1518. For each attachment levy
made, the sheriff is entitled to a specified amount ". . . and, also,
such additional compensation for his trouble and expenses in taking
possession of and preserving the property as the judge issuing the
warrant . . ." allows. Id. § 1558 (2). There are also other fees
for inventory, mileage, and poundage upon the value of the property

McCLOSKEY v. McGRATH.
475

Opinion of the Court.

to which his fees have been or may be included in the
judgments dealt with in the preceding cases. The record
does not disclose that they have been allowed or fixed
by the judge who issued the attachment warrants. Although the sheriff has never had the attached funds in
his possession, there is authority that such lack of physical possession does not deprive him of his right to poundage.4 Furthermore, the uncertain values of the levies
made, in view of their nature as defined in Commission for
Polish Relief v. Banca Nationala a Rumaniei, 288 N. Y.
332, 43 N. E. 2d 345 (1942), and the inability of the
sheriff to seize the attached funds, make the determination of the sheriff's fees a matter for the appropriate New
York state court. Also, whether those fees constitute
separate claims or are taxable costs which become part
of the judgments to which they relate is for state court
determination.
We have no doubt that, in one form or another, the
proper fees of the sheriff should be treated by federal
law in the same manner as the attachments and judgments to which they appertain. Therefore, insofar as
the accounts held by the Chase Bank were concerned,
the Custodian was not entitled to a declaration that the
sheriff's fees did not constitute a valid claim. The Cusattached. Ibid. If execution is issued, additional fees accrue, and
a schedule of percentages "For collecting money by virtue of an
execution, a warrant of attachment, or an attachment for the payment of money in an action or a special proceeding . . ." is provided.
Id. § 1558 (7). Where "the warrant of attachment is vacated or
set aside by order of the court," the sheriff is entitled to poundage
and to such additional compensation for taking and preserving the
property as the judge who issued the warrant may allow and the
court or judge may issue an order "requiring the party at whose
instance the attachment is issued to pay the same to the sheriff."
Id. § 1558 (18).
Distillers Factors Corp. v. Country Distillers Products,81 N. Y. S.
2d 857, 859.

OCTOBER TERM, 1950.
Opinion of the Court.

341 U. S.

todian sought no such declaration where the accounts
held by the Federal Reserve Bank were concerned, but
only asserted that the sheriff's claims could not defeat
his right of possession. To preserve the paramount authority of the Federal Government over the frozen funds,
we hold they could not. Accordingly, the judgment is
reversed insofar as the fees of the sheriff relate to the
attachments of the accounts held by the Chase Bank
and affirmed insofar as they relate to the accounts held
by the Federal Reserve Bank.
This, however, is without prejudice to the right of the
sheriff to have the New York courts determine the state
law status of his fees, and, in the case of the attachments
of the accounts held by the Chase Bank, to have them,
as fixed, included in the judgments or otherwise given
the same position as such judgments. And no prejudice
is intended to his rights, in the case of the attachments
of the accounts held by the Federal Reserve Bank, to
present his fee claims, as settled by the New York courts,
to the Custodian in the same manner and subject to
the same procedures as the judgment creditors in Nos.
299 and 315.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE CLARK

decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration or

