oTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

JOHNSON v. RISK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

OF TENNESSEE.

No. 81. Submitted November 18, 1890.-Decided December 8, 1890.

Where, in an action pending in a state court, two grounds of defence
are interposed, each broad enough to defeat a recovery, and only one
of them involves a federal question, and judgment passes for the defendant, the record must show, in order to justify a writ of error from this
court, that the judgment was rested upon the disposition of the federal
question: and if this does not affirmatively appear, tile writ of error
will be dismissed unless tile defence which does not involve a federal
question is so palpably unfounded, that it cannot be presumed to have been
entertained by the state court.

THis was a bill filed in the Chancery Court of Shelby
County, Tennessee, on October 28, 1885, by John Johnson
against Thomas L. Risc, L. Tiff Risk, John D. Milburn, H. C.
Warriner, Eben L. Risk, a minor, and his guardian, Alice Hl.
Risk, all residing in Shelby County, and Frank L. Duncan
and Jennie, his wife, residing in Cincinnati, Ohio. The bill
averred that the complainant and one E. F. Risk, since deceased, were co-partners in the city of Memphis, under the
styles of Johnson, Risk & Co. and Risk & Johnson, doing a
foundry and also a mercantile business; and that on the first
day of February, 1875, the firms were dissolved, and for ten
thousand dollars paid to complainant, he sold and conveyed
to Risk his undivided half of the real estate, and also his interest in the machinery, tools and stock of every kind, belonging to said firms, reserving their bills receivable, book accounts
and debts due them, which were to remain the joint property
of Risk and complainant, but were to be collected by Risk,
and by him accounted for to complainant in the proportion of
one-half to complainant and the other to Risk, "in the manner
set forth in the deed of bargain and sale executed at the time,
and a copy of which is filed with and is a part of this bill, and
marked Exhibit 'A.'" It was further averred that "one condition of the said sale was that the said E. F. Risk assumed

JOHNSON v. RISK.
Statement of the Case.

the payment of each and all the debts and liabilities of every
kind whatever of each and both of the said firms of Johnson,
Risk & Co. and Risk & Johnson, and bound and obligated
himself to pay the same and protect and keep the said Johnson harmless from the payment of any part thereof."
The bill then stated that among the liabilities of the firms
so assumed by Risk, was one to his son L. Tiff Risk, who
declined to sue his father for the debt, notwithstanding he
knew of the contract "by which his father bad gotten all the
assets of the said firms and had agreed to pay all their debts
and liabilities," but brought suit therefor against the complainant alone in the Circuit Court of Shelby County, and recovered
a judgment therein, April 22, 1878, for $1260.87 and costs;
that E. F. Risk never at any time paid any part of this judgment, and on the 27th of August, 1885, the complainant paid
L. Tiff Risk $1000 in satisfaction thereof, by giving him his
note for $150 due at four months, and another of the same
date for $850 due at six months, with ebdorsers; and that no
part of said sum had been repaid complainant, but the whole
remained due and unpaid. Complainant further stated that
on the 11th of July, 1878, E. F. Risk filed his petition in bankruptcy in the District Court of the United States for the District of West Tennessee under and in compliance with the act
of Congress entitled "An act to establish a uniform system of
bankruptcy throughout the United States," approved on the
third day of March, 1867, and in such petition asked to be discharged from all his debts and liabilities then existing; that
subsequently, on the 20th of December, 1878, a discharge was
granted him by the court aforesaid in manner and form as
declared in said act; that E. F. Risk died intestate in Shelby
County, Tennessee, on the 20th of June, 1882, without ever
having paid any part of the debt to L. Tiff Risk, on which the
latter had recovered judgment against complainant; that on
the 27th of June, 1882, letters of administration on his estate
were granted by the Probate Court of Shelby County to the
defendant Thomas L. Risk, who was qualified and became the
administrator and executed a bond as such, conditioned according to law, with the defendants John D. Milburn and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

L. Tiff Risk as his sureties; that the administrator, on the 21st
of August, 18S2, filed an inventory of the assets of the estate,
showing certain cash on hand and giving a list of personal
property on which no value was set; that on the 27th of September, 1882, the said Thomas L. Risk, as such administrator,
filed in the Probate Court his final settlement of the estate of
E. F. Risk without giving the prescribed statutory notice to
creditors and others interested in said estate; and that on the
same day an order was entered confirming the settlement and
discharging Thomas L. Risk as administrator, cancelling his
bond and releasing his sureties from further liability. Upon
this settlement it was shown by the administrator that the personalty had been disposed of, and that the whole amount with
which he should be charged was $1028.49; and he also showed
the debts paid, the expenses of administration, and the sum
remaining for distribution, and credited himself with the sums
paid the distributees of E. F. Risk, deceased, being as follows:
To Mrs. Jennie Duncan, to L. Tiff Risk, to Alice H. Risk as
guardian of Eben L. Risk, grandson of E. F. Risk, deceased,
and himself, $202.56 each.
Complainant averred that Thomas L. Risk made the payments to the distributees without taking any refunding bond
as required by the statute, and in his own wrong and without
the authority of law, and that he and his sureties on his
administration bond are now liable to complainant on account
of the matters set out in the bill for the full amount of said
payments and interest thereon until paid. Complainant further showed that on December 1, 1883, Thomas L. Risk was
appointed by the Probate Court administrator de bonis non of
the estate of E. F. Risk, deceased, and at. that time gave a
bond as such administrator, with defendants L. Tiff Risk and
H. C. Warriner as sureties, and thereupon qualified and had
since continued to be such administrator, but had filed no
inventory of the assets of said estate since his appointment,
and had taken no steps in the administration so far as the
complainant knew or believed.
The bill then proceeded: "Upon the state of facts aforesaid
the plaintiff submits that the discharge in bankruptcy of the

JOH SON v. RISK.
Statement of the Case.

said E. F. Risk did not discharge him or his estates from liability to the plaintiff on the contract of indemnity, a copy of
which is marked Exhibit 'A,' and a part of this bill, but such
liability remains upon his estate, and the said Thomas L. Risk,
as admjnistrator thereof, personally, as if no discharge in
bankruptcy had been granted; and the plaintiff further submits that the said distributees to whom the said Thomas L.
Risk distributed the sums aforesaid in the manner aforesaid,
to wit, (naming them), are liable and are bound by law to
refund and pay the said sums so distributed to them, respectively, in order that the same may be applied towards the
payment of the demand herein set up by the plaintiff against
the estate of the said E. F. Risk, deceased, and the said
Thomas L. Risk, as administrator." The bill prayed process,
and that on the final hearing complainant might have a decree
against the defendants and each of them, or such of them as
were liable, jointly or severally, for the sums they respectively
owed him, and for general relief.
Exhibit "A" attached to the bill bore date February 1,
1875, and recited that in consideration of ten thousand dollars,
the receipt of which was thereby acknowledged, and the
further consideration thereinafter mentioned, Johnson had
that day bargained, sold and conveyed to E. F. Risk, his
undivided half or moiety of a certain parcel of land as described,
(upon which the firm's foundry building was located,) together
with all the tools and machinery of every sort and kind whatever, then on said lot or in said foundry, and then continued:
"This instrument further witnesseth that the firms of Johnson,
Risk & Co. and of Risk & Johnson are this day dissolved, the
said Johnson selling all his interest in the machinery, tools,
and stock of every kind on hand belonging to both firms, to
the said E. F. Risk, and part of the consideration for said sale
and the above conveyance is that the said Risk assumes payment of each and all the debts and liabilities of every kind
whatsoever of each and both of said firms, and binds and
obligates himself to pay the same and protect and keep said
Johnson harmless from the payment of any part thereof;"
and it is then provided that the bills receivable, etc., shall be

OCTOBER TERA1, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

collected by E. F. Risk and divided as fast as practicable
between himself and Johnson, less necessary costs and charges,
one-half to each; that $150 shall be paid to Johnson in cash
at the end of each and every month, and whenever the
monthly collections amount to $1000 or more in excess of the
monthly payment of $150 to Johnson and a like amount
retained by Risk, then Risk was to execute his note to Johnson for one-half of said collections, payable eight months after
date, with interest. It was further provided that Johnson
should retain a lien upon the real estate and machinery conveyed, Risk acknowledging the same, "together with a lien,
equal to and like a mortgage upon his other undivided half of
said foundry property, both land and machinery, to secure to
Johnson the faithful performance of the undertakings herein
made by the said Risk, which are that he will pay over to
Johnson at the end of each month $150; one-half of all
other collections eight months after they are made, with
interest thereon at eight per cent per annum ; and pay all the
debts outstanding owing by the said two firms or either of
them." And: "In the event that Johnson should have to
pay any of said debts or be sued thereon, or should not be
paid his half of the collections made as stipulated above, then
he may proceed forthwith to enforce the liens herein retained
and granted by proper proceeding therefor."
To this bill Thomas L. Risk in his own right and as administrator de bonis non of E. F. Risk, deceased, John D. Milburn
and I. C. Warriner demurred, assigning as grounds that E. F.
Risk was released from the debt sued for by his discharge in
bankruptcy, granted on the 20th of December, 1878, on his
petition in bankruptcy filed on the 11th of July, 1878; and
also that the supposed cause of action was barred by the
statute of limitations of two years and six months from the
grant of letters of administration, June 27, 1882; and also
that the cause of action did not accrue within six years next
before the bringing of the suit, and was therefore barred; and
a special ground as to Warriner. L. Tiff Risk filed his separate demurrer assigning the same causes. The chancellor
sustained the demurrers and dismissed the bill, and complain-

JOHNSON v. RISK.
Statement of the Case.

ant prayed an appeal to the' Supreme Court of the State,
which, on the 28th of April, 1887, affirmed the decree. Complainant then sued out this writ of error.
The following are sections of the Code of Tennessee of 1884-,
the numbers being given of that and the preceding edition:
"3087-2249. That all creditors may be duly apprised of
the death of any person indebted to them, the executor or
administrator of the deceased shall, within two months after
qualification, advertise at the court-house of the county where
the deceased usually dwelt at the time of his death, and other
public places in the county, for all persons to bring to him
their accounts and demands."
"31129-2274. Executors and administrators shall have six
months from the date of their qualification to ascertain the
situation of the deceased's estate, and to arrange and settle it
without being liable to suit and costs; and all suits commenced
within that period may be abated and dismissed at the plaintiff's
cost, except suits brought by sureties of the deceased, which
may be brought without delay."
"3117-2279. The creditors of deceased persons, if they
reside within this State, shall within two years, and if without,
shall within three years from the qualification of the executor
or administrator, exhibit to them their accounts, debts, and
claims, and make demand, and bring suit for the recovery
thereof, or be forever barred in law and equity."
"3222-2377. Creditors whose debts are not due shall be
under the same obligation to present their claims as those
whose debts are due, and upon failure to do so shall be barred
in like manner; but a creditor shall not be bound to present
his claim before due, except where the estate is represented to
be insolvent as herein provided."
"3454-2-760. The time between the death of a person and
the grant of letters testamentary or of administration on his
estate, not exceeding six months, and the six months within
which a personal representative is exempt from suit, is not to
be taken as a part of the time limited for commencing actions
which lie against the personal representative."
"3466-2769. All civil actions, other than those for causes
VOL. cxxxvi-20

OCTOBER TERlr, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

embraced in the foregoing article, shall be commenced after
the cause of action has accrued, within the periods prescribed
in this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided."
"3472-2775. Actions for the use and occupation of land and
for rent, actions against the sureties of guardians, executors,
and administrators, sheriffs, clerks, and other public officers,
for nonfeasance, misfeasance, and malfeasance in office; actions
on contracts not otherwise expressly provided for, within six
years after the cause of action accrued."
"3481-2784. Actions against the personal representatives of
a deceased person shall be.commenced by a resident of the
State within two years, and by a non-resident within three
years after the qualification of the personal representative, if
the cause of action accrued in the lifetime of the deceased,
or, otherwise, from the time the cause of action accrued."
-Mr. William X Randolph, for plaintiff in error, submitted
on his brief.
2r. B. ff. Estes, for defendants in error, submitted on his
brief.
AIR. CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendants below demurred upon two general grounds,
one of which involved the construction of the provisions of the
bankrupt act of March 2, 1867, and the other, the bar of the
statutes of limitation of the State of Tennessee. So far as we
are advised, no opinion was given by the Supreme Court of
that State, upon rendering the judgment of, affirmance, and
the record discloses no specific statement of the ground upon
which the court proceeded. Inasmuch as one of the defences
called for the construction and application of a State statute in
a matter purely local, in respect to which great weight, if not
conclusive effect, should be given to the decisions of the highest court of the State, (Gormley v. Clark, 134 U. S.338, 348,)
the plaintiff in error, if he wished to claim that this cause was

JOHNSON v. RISK.
Opinion of the Court.

disposed of by the decision of a federal question, should have
obtained the certificate of the Supreme Court to that effect, or
the assertion in the judgment that such was the fact.
In .De Saussure v. Gaillar.d,127 U. S. 216, the general rule is
stated that to give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error to
a State court, "it must appear affirmatively, not only that a
federal question was presented for decision to the highest court
of the State having jurisdiction, but that its decision was
necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it was
actually decided, or that the judgment as rendered could not
have been given without deciding it."
Where there is a federal question, but the case may have
been disposed of on some other independent ground, and it
does not appear on which of the two grounds the judgment
was based, then if the independent ground was not a good
and valid one, sufficient of itself to sustain the judgment, this
court will take jurisdiction of the case, because, when put to
inference as to what points the state court decided, we
ought not to assume that it proceeded on grounds clearly
untenable. RYlinger v. .Missouri,13 Wall. 257. But where a
defence is distinctly made, resting on local statutes, we should
not, in order to reach a federal question, resort to critical conjecture as to the action of the court in the disposition of such
defence.
Was the defence of the statute of limitations so palpably
unfounded that we must presume that the state court overruled it?
The decisions of the Supreme Court of Tennessee seem to
establish, as to the sections of the code of that State given
above, that section 3117 relates to demands arising against
deceased persons in their lifetime, and applies alike to solvent
and insolvent estates, Brown v. Porter,7 Humphreys, 373;
.Miller v. Taylor, 6 Heiskell, 465; that under section 3481,
where the estate is solvent, the statute of limitations does not
begin to run until the demand falls due or right of action
accrues, Trott v. Tfest, 9 Yerger, 433; Hearm v. Roberts, 9
Lea, 365; that the omission of the advertisement for claims
prescribed by section 3087 does not prevent the running of the

OCTOBER TERAM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

statute, Todd v. FWrighkt, 12 Heiskell, 442; that under section
3454, construed with section 311-7, the resident creditor has
two years and a half after qualification of the personal representative, in which to sue on demands not barred by the general statute; .fcaynard v. 3ay, 2 Coldwell, 44; Todd v.
Wright, 12 Heiskell, 442; and that when the general statute
has commenced to run in the debtor's lifetime, death suspends
its operation for not exceeding six months after that event,
and prior to the grant of letters testamentary or of administration, and suit cannot be commenced against the administrator
for the six months following such grant. Bright v. .oore, 87
Tennessee, 186; Boyd v. -ee, 12 Lea, 7(.
The bill counted upon the liability of E. F. Risk under the
agreement attached as an exhibit, and not otherwise. By
that agreement Risk contracted to pay all the debts and liabilities of every kind of the firms, to assume the liabilities and
to save Johnson harmless. This was broken by a failure to
pay the parties to whom the firms were liable, and it was not
necessary to a breach that Johnson should show that he had
first paid those parties. It was not an agreement merely to
indemnify Johnson from damage, but to assume the indebtedness and discharge him from liability. .3illsv. Dow's Administrator, 133 U. S. 423, 432; Wicker v. H pock, 6 'Wall. 94;
.Locke v. Hlormer, 131 Mass. 93. In the latter case, Mr. Justice
Gray, then Chief Justice of Massachusetts, reviews the authorities, and cites among others, Robinsorn v. R-obinson, 24 L. T.
Rep. 112. There by an indenture of dissolution of a partnership
between the plaintiff and defendant, the defendant to whom
all the partnership property was transferred, covenanted to
pay and satisfy within eighteen months all the debts of the
partnership, and also to indemnify and save harmless the plaintiff against all costs, losses, charges, damages, claims, and demands which he might incur or become liable to in respect to
the partnership debts. In an action on the defendant's covenant to pay the debts of the partnership, Lord Campbell and
Justices Wightman and Erle held that the measure of damages
was the whole amount of the debts which he had not paid,
whether they had been paid by the plaintiff, or he had given

JOHNSON v. RISK.
Opinion of the Court.

promissory notes for them or not. The ruling of the Supreme
Court of Tennessee in G'ay v. Williams, 9 Humphreys, 502,
505, is to the same effect. See also Atkins v. Sccsrboroug]t, 9
H~umphreys, 517.
This bill does not show when the debt to L. Tiff Risk became due, nor when suit for its recovery was commenced
against Johnson, but it was of course prior to April 22, 1878,
when judgment was recovered. The contract of E. F. Risk
had therefore been broken prior to that time, and this action
was commenced on the 28th of October, 1885, more than
seven years and six months after the breach, and more than
three years and four months after June 27, 1882, the date of
the letters of administration to Thomas L. Risk.
Johnson was a resident of Tennessee, and should have exhibited his claim to the administrator and commenced his action
within two and a half years after the letters were issued.
Moreover, the cause of action on the agreement would have
been barred as early as April 22, 1884, against E. F. Risk, if
he had lived, and, so far as his death operated to give further
time, that had also expired.
Inasmuch, therefore, as, if the Supreme Court of the State
had sustained the defence of the statutes of limitation, we cannot perceive that such decision would have been erroneous, it
does not appear that the judgment as rendered could not have
been given without deciding the federal question, or that its
decision was necessary to the determination of the cause and
that it was actually decided.
The writ of error must therefore be
-Dismissed.

