OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

have been made by the President upon the strength of an
inference drawn from the remission of a part of the sentence.
The inference that the President had personally acted could,
indeed, be properly drawn from the substantive fact of the
submission of the proceedings to him, if that had appeared,
but presumption could not supply that fact, and then a presumption upon that presumption be availed of to make out
that the approval was the President's personal act. This, as
the Chief Justice remarked, wohld leave the fact that the
order was his own, to inference only.
Tie judgment of the Court of Claims is i'eversed and the
cause remanded, with directions to dismiss the ypetition.

COPE v. COPE.
APPEAL FROM1 THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 1327.

Submitted December 22, 1890.-Decided January 19, 1891.

The statute of Utah of 1852, (Compiled Laws of Utah, 1876, sec. 677,) which
provides that "illegitimate children and their mothers inherit in like
manner from the father, whether acknowledged by him or not, provided
it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of the court that he was
the father of such illegitimate child or children," was an act of legislation within the powers conferred upon the Territorial legislature by
Congress by the act of September 9, 1850, 9 Stat. 453, c. 51, ยง 6; and was
not abrogated, annulled or repealed by the act of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat.
501, c. 126, to prevent the practice of polygamy and annulling certain
acts of that Territory.
The distribution of and the right of succession to the estates of deceased
persons are matters exclusively of State cognizance, and may be dealt
with by a Territorial legislature as it sees fit, in the absence of a prohibition by Congress.
Annulments of statutes by implication, like repeals by implication, are not
favored by the courts.
No statute of a Territory will be declared void because it may indirectly,
or by a construction which is possible but not necessary, be repugnant
to an act of Congress annulling legislation of the Territory; but such a
result must be direct and proximate in order to invalidate the statute.
The several acts of Congress respecting polygamy considered.

COPE v. COPE.
Opinion of the Court.

Tins was an appeal from a decree of distribution, originally
pronounced by the Probate Court of Salt Lake County,
affirmed by the District Court of the Third Judicial District
of Utah, and again by an equal division of the Supreme Court
of the Territory.
The sole question presented for. consideration was, whether
George H. Cope, the illegitimate child of Thomas Cope, was,
under the facts of the case, the heir of Thomas Cope, deceased.
The finding of facts, so far as the same are material, was as
follows:
1. That Thomas Cope, deceased, died at Salt Lake County,
Utah Territory, intestate, on the - day of August, 1864,
leaving certain real estate therein, the description of which
is immaterial.
2. That said Thomas Cope left at the time of his death
surviving him, Janet Cope, his lawful wife, Thomas H. Cope,
his only legitimate son, and George H. Cope, his illegitimate
son by Margaret Cope, his polygamous or plural wife, and
that the marriage of the said deceased with Margaret Cope
was contracted while the said Janet Cope was the living and
undivorced wife of said deceased.
And as conclusions of law the court found:
1. That the sole heirs-at-law of said Thomas Cope, deceased,
are Janet Cope and Thomas H. Cope, who are alone entitled to
share in the distribution of the estate of said Thomas Cope,
and that all the real estate above mentioned descended to and
vested in said Janet Cope and Thomas H. Cope, subject to the
administration upon such estate.
2. That the said George H. Cope is not an heir of said
Thomas Cope, deceased, and not entitled to any share of said
Thomas Cope's estate.
.,L-. J. G. Sutherland for appellant.
Xft.

. 1V75
Baskin for appellees.

MR. JUSTIcE BROWN,

opinion of the Court.

after stating the case, delivered the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The appellant, George H. Cope, who is admitted to be the illegitimate child of Thomas Cope, by Margaret Cope, his polygamous wife, claims the right to inherit a share of his father's
estate under a Territorial statute of Utah, enacted in 1852,
which provided as follows: "Section 25. Illegitimate children
and their mothers inherit in like manner" [as legitimate]
"from the father, whether acknowledged by him or not, provided it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of the court
that he was the father of such illegitimate child or children."
Compiled Laws of Utah, 1876, ยง 677.
While this statute is an innovation upon the common law,
and in some particulars a novelty in legislation, we perceive
no objection to its validity. By section 6 of the act of September 9, 1850, 9 Stat. 453, 454, establishing a Territorial
government for Utah, it is provided: "That the legislative
power of said Territory shall extend to all rightful subjects
of legislation, consistent with the Constitution of the United
States and the provisions of this act; but no law shall be
passed interfering with the primary disposal of the soil; no
tax shall be imposed upon the property of the United States;
nor shall the lands or other property of non-residents be taxed
higher than the lands or other property of residents. All the
laws passed by the legislative assembly and governor shall be
submitted to the Congress of the United States, and, if disapproved, shall be null and of no effect." With the exceptions
noted in this section, the power of the Territorial legislature
was apparently as plenary as that of the legislature of a State.
MAaynard v. Hill, 125 U. S. 190, 204. The distribution of
and the right of succession to the estates of deceased persons
are matters exclusively of State cognizance, and are such as
were within the competence of the Territorial legislature to
deal with as it saw fit, in the absence of an inhibition by Congress. Indeed, legislation of similar description is by no means
unprecedented. By the laws of many States natural children
are permitted to inherit from the mother, and also from the
father in case of the after marriage of their parents, or. where
there are no lawful children, or where an adoption is made in
due form, or where recognition is made by will. And if the

COPE v. COPE.
Opinion of the Court.

question of parentage be satisfactorily settled, there would
seem to be power in the legislature to endow even the children
of an adulterous intercourse with inheritable blood from the
father.
Legislation admitting illegitimate children to the right of
succession is undoubtedly in derogation of the common law,
and should be strictly construed, and hence it has generally
been held that laws permitting such children, whose parents
have since married, to inherit, do not apply to the fruits of an
adulterous intercourse. Sarns v. Sanz" Executors, 85 Kentucky,
396.
But, while it is the duty of the courts to put a construction
upon statutes, which shall, so far as possible, be consonant
with good morals, we know of no legal principle which would
authorize us to pronounce a statute of this kind, which is plain
and unambiguous upon its face, void, by reason of its failure
to conform to our own standard of social and moral obligations. Legislatures are as competent as courts to deal with
these subjects, and, in fixing a standard of their own, are
beyond our control. Thus in Brewer v. Blouglier, 14 Pet.
178, 198, it was said by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, speaking for
this court, that the expediency and moral tendency of a similar
law was a question for the legislature and not for this court;
and it was held in that case that a statute of Maryland,
endowing illegitimate children with inheritable blood, applied
to such as were the offspring of an incestuous connection.
It is true that the peculiar state of society existing at the
time this act was passed, and still existing in the Territory of
Utah, renders a law of this kind much wider in its operation
than in other States and Territories; but it may be said in
defence of this act that the children embraced by it are not
responsible for this state of things, and that it is unjust to visit
upon them the consequences of their ,parents' sins. To recognize the validity of the act is in the nature'of a punishment
upon the father, whose estate is thus diverted from its natural
channel, rather than upon the child; while to bold it to be
invalid is to treat the child as in some sense an outlaw and a
particeps criminis.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

It is contended by respondents, however, that, even conceding the validity of this statute, it was abrogated and annulled
by the anti-polygamy Act of Congress of July 1, 1862, 12
Stat. 501, c. 126, the second section of which annuls by title
the ordinance for the incorporation of the Mormon Church,
and then adds: "and all other acts and parts of acts heretofore passed by the said legislative assembly of the Territory
of Utah, which establish, support, maintain, shield or countenance polygamy, be, and the same hereby are, disapproved
and annulled: Provided, That this act shall be so limited and
construed as not to affect or interfere with the right of property legally acquired under the ordinance heretofore mentioned,
nor with the right 'to worship God according to the dictates
of conscience,' but only to annul all acts and laws which
establish, maintain, protect, or countenance the practice of
polygamy," etc. As this act was passed before the death of
Thomas Cope, and of course before descent cast upon his
children, it applies to this case if the argument of respondents
be sound. The question is then presented, does the Territorial
act of 1852 establish, support, maintain, shield or countenance
polygamy? It clearly does not establish, support or maintain
it. Does it shield or countenance it? It does not declare the
children of polygamous marriages to be legitimate; in fact, it
treats them as illegitimate, or rather, it does not, except by
indirection or inference, mention them at all; but it puts all
illegitimate children, whether the fruits of polygamous or of
ordinary adulterous or illicit intercourse, upon an equality and
vests them with inheritable blood.
Nothing is better settled than that repeals, and the same
may be said of annulments, by implication, are not favored
by the courts, and that no statute will be construed as repealing a prior one, unless so clearly repugnant thereto as to admit
of no other reasonable construction.
J-c Cool v. Smith, 1
Black, 459; Bowem v. lease, 5 Hill, 221; Ex parte Yerger, 8
Wall. 85, 105; Furman v. 1l/ichol, 8 Walf. 44; United States
v. Sixty-seven Packages,17 How. 85 ; Red Rock v. .enry, 106
U.S. 596.
In order to subject the Territorial act of 1852 to the annul-

COPE v. COPE.
Opinion of the Couit.

ling clause of the act of Congress, its tendency to shield or
countenance polygamy should be direct and unmistakable.
No law will be declared void because it may indirectly, or by
a possible, and not a necessary, construction be repugnant to
an annulling act. Its direct and proximate results are alone
to be considered. While, as before observed, the act may have
been passed in view of the existing state of things, and as an
indirect method of recognizing the legitimacy of polygamous
children, it has no tendency in itself to shield or countenance
polygamy so far as it applies to children. Legislation for the
protection of children born in polygamy is not necessarily
legislation favorable to polygamy. There is no inconsistency
in shielding the one and in denouncing the other as a crime.
It has never been supposed that the acts of the several States
legitimating natural children, whose parents intermarry after
their birth, had the slightest tendency to shield or countenance
illicit cohabitation, but they were rather designed to protect
the unfortunate children of those who were willing to do all
in their power towards righting a great wrong. So, if the act
in question had been passed in any other jurisdiction, it would
have been considered as a perfectly harmless, though possibly
indiscreet exercise of the legislative power, and would not be
seriously claimed as a step towards the establishment of a
polygamous system.
As this act annuls only such Territorial laws as shield or
countenance polygamy, if we sustain the construction urged
by the respondents here, it must necessarily follow that the
children of polygamous marriages would be deprived of their
power to inherit from the father, while the offspring of other
illicit relations would be left to inherit under the act. This
would seem to be at war with the intent of the legislature.
But whatever doubts there may be regarding the proper
construction of this act, we think they are dispelled by a
scrutiny of the subsequent legislation upon the same subject.
In 1876 the legislature of Utah, being evidently in some doubt
as to the proper interpretation of the Congressional act of
1862, passed another act declaring that "every illegitimate
child is, in all cases, an heir to its mother. It is also heir to

OCTOBER TERAM, 1890.
0 pinion of the Court.

its father when acknowledged by him." This was followed
March 22, 1882, by an act of Congress, commonly known as
the Edmunds law, 22 Stat. 30, c. 47, which, while providing
for further punishment for polygamy and its accompanying
evils, in section 7 expressly legitimates the issue of polygamous
or Mormon marriages born prior to January 1, 1883. If the
Territorial act of 1852 be open to the charge of shielding or
countenancing polygamy, much more so is this act, which not
only admits polygamous children to the right of inheritance,
but actually legitimates them for all purposes. The law
remained substantially in this condition until March 3, 1887,
when the act of Congress known as the Edmunds-Tucker law,
24 Stat. 635, c. 397, was passed, the 11th section of which
provides that "the laws enacted by the legislative assembly
of the Territory of Utah which provide for or recognize the
capacity of illegitimate children to inherit, or to be entitled
to any distributive share in, the estate of the father of any
such illegitimate child, are hereby disapproved and annulled;
and no illegitimate child shall hereafter be entitled to inherit
from his or her father, or to receive any distributive share in
the estate of his or her father: Provided, That this section
shall not apply to any illegitimate child born within twelve
months after the passage of this act, nor to any child made
legitimate by the 7th section of the act" of 1882.
Here, then, is the first clear and unqualified declaration of
Congress of its disapproval of the legislation of Utah recognizing the -inheritable capacity of the issue of polygamous
marriages; and so careful is Congress of rights acquired or
existing under these laws that it excepts by special proviso all
children declared to be legitimate by the 7th section of the
act of 1882, as well as all illegitimate children born within
twelve months after the passage of this act.
These several acts of Congress, dealing as they do with the
same subject matter, should be construed not only as expressing the intention of Congress at the dates the several acts
were passed, but the later acts should also be regarded as
legislative interpretations of the prior ones. United States v.
Freeman, 3 How. 556, 564; Stookdale v. Insurance Co., 20

MASSACHUSETTS BENEFIT ASS'N v. MILES.

689

Statement of the Case.

*rall. 323. iNow if it had been intended by the act of 1862
to annul the Territorial act of 1852, fixing the inheritable
capacity of illegitimate children, why did Congress in 1882
recognize the legitimacy of children born of polygamous or
Mormon marriages, prior to .January 1, 1883? Or why, in
the act of 1887, did it save the rights of such children as well
as of all others born within twelve months after the passage
of that act? The object of these enactments is entirely clear.
Not only does Congress refrain from adding to the odium
which popular opinion visits upon this innocent but unfortunate class of children, but it makes them the special object of
its solicitude, and at the same time offers to the parents an
inducement, in the nature of a locus penitenia, to discontinue
their unlawful cohabitation.
Our conclusion is that the appellant George A. Cope is entitled to share in his father's estate, and the decree of the
Supreme Court of the Territory must, therefore, be
Reversed.

MASSACHUSETTS BENEFIT ASSOCIATION v. MILES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYL'VANIA.
No. 1390. Submitted December 1, 1890. - Decided January 19, 1891.

This court has jurisdiction over a judgment entered in a Federal Court in
Pennsylvania "in favor of the plaintiff and against the defendant on the
verdict," when interest on the verdict antecedent to the judgment appealed from is included in such judgment, and the amount, with the
added interest,- exceeds .95000.
The question of interest is always one of local law.

THIS was a motion to dismiss a writ of error upon the
ground that the "matter in dispute" did not exceed the sum
or value of five thousand dollars, as required by Revised Statutes, section 691, as amended by section 3 of the act of February 16, 1875, 18 Stat. 315, c. 77, to give this court jurisdiction.
Sarah G. Miles, the plaintiff below, brought an action in the
VOL. cxxxvn--44

