GURNEE v. PATRICK COUNTY.
Statement of the Case.

This account should be modified so as to charge defendant
with amount received on certificates for condemned buildings,
$10,737.86, and other amounts actually received from the
property, $5659.07; total $16,396.93. From which, deducting the credits allowed, there remains a balance of $3782.93.
The decree of the Circuit Court will therefore be modified
and the case
Remanded with instructions to enter afinal decree, as heretofore, establishing the title of the complainant and decreeing
to him possession, and adjudging that he recover of the
defendants the sum of $3782.93, with interest from the
11th day of Nfovember, 1886, the time of the final decree.

GURNEE v. PATRICK COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 57. Argued and submitted November 7, 1890.-Decided November 17,1890.
If a law conferring jurisdiction is repealed without any reservation as to
pending cases, all such cases fall with the law.
forey v. Lockhart, 123 U. S. 56; Wilson v. Nebraska, 123 U. S. 286; Sherman
v. Grinnell, 123 U. S. 679; and Railroad Co. v. Grant, 98 U. S. 398,
affirmed.
Richmond & Danville Railroad Co. v. Thouron, 134 U. S. 45, affirmed.
A judgment in a Circuit Court of the United States on a general demurrer
to the declaration in an action removed from a State Court, that the demurrer be sustained, and, as the record showed that the court had no
jurisdiction, that the cause be remanded to the State Court, is not a judgment to which a writ of error from this court can be maintained.

THis case was called when reached in the regular order upon
the calendar, and argument was commenced. The court, however, on examining the record, declined to hear further argument, but granted to counsel leave to file briefs on the question
of jurisdiction. The case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
Plaintiffs in error are citizens of the State of New York,
and the owners and holders of certain bonds of the county of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

Patrick in the State of Virginia. The record shows that at
a meeting of the board of supervisors for the county of Patrick,
on April 7, 1884, "the Norfolk and Great Western Railroad
Company, for the use and benefit of Walter S. Gurnee, Jun'r,
and Augustus C. Gurnee, and Walter S. Gurnee, Jr., and
Augustus C. Gurnee, assignees thereof," presented to the
board "seventeen bonds of $1000 each, executed by the county
aforesaid to said railroad company and numbered, respectively,
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 23, 24, 25, 29 and 30, and demanded payment of the interest due thereon to the first
November, 1883, or a levy for said interest, and filed the following account for said interest, viz.: (Here follows account.)
Which account said board of supervisors disallowed and refuse to levy for in whole or in part." On the same day notice
of appeal to the county court of Patrick County from the decision of the board was given by the railroad company for the
use and benefit of plaintiffs in error, and by plaintiffs in error
as "assignees of said bonds," and the appeal perfected.
On May 6, 1884, the case was removed by plaintiffs in error
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
District of Virginia, and on the 1st of July they filed their
declaration in that court against the county. The defendant
demurred, and on the 3d of May, 1887, the following order
was entered: "This day came the parties, by their attorneys,
and in pursuance of an agreement by counsel submitted in
vacation to the judges of this court for their decision, the demurrer filed by the defendant to the plaintiffs' declaration and
to each count thereof and the said defendant's demurrer to
the plaintiffs' declaration and each count thereof being argued,
and because it seems to the court that the plaintiffs' declaration and each and every count thereof are insufficient in law,
it is considered by the court that the demurrer aforesaid be
sustained, and, the record showing that this court has not jurisdiction in this case, it is ordered that the same be remanded
to the County Court of Patrick County, Virginia." On the
next day it was further ordered: "It being suggested to the
court that it is the purpose of the plaintiffs to ask for a writ
of error to the final order entered on yesterday remanding this

GURNEE v. PATRICK COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

case to the County Court of Patrick County on the ground
that this court has no jurisdiction thereof, on the motion of
the plaintiffs the order herein entered on yesterday, the 3d of
May, 1887, be suspended for ninety days from the rising of this
court." The pending writ of error was subsequently allowed.
Xn. A. T. Britton, .M .A. B. Browne and -Mr. Benr? Wise
Garnett for plaintiffs in error.
.AIr. John I. Danielfor defendant in error.
M .R. CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Prior to the act of March 3, 1875, there could be no appeal
or writ of error from an order of a Circuit Court remanding
a suit which had been removed, because such an order was not
a final judgment or decree in the sense which authorized an
appeal or writ of error. Railroad Co. v. Wiswall, 23 Wall.
507. But it was provided by that act that the order of a Circuit Court dismissing or remanding a cause to a State court,
should be reviewable by the Supreme Court on writ of error
or appeal as the case might be. 18 Stat. 471, c. 137, ยง 5. By
section 6 of the act of March 3, 1887, (24 Stat. 552, 555, c.
373,) as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, (25 Stat. 433,
c. 866,) the provision to that effect was repealed, and it was
also provided by the act that "no appeal or writ of error from
the decision of the Circuit Court so remanding such cause shall
be allowed." Section 6 was accompanied by the proviso
"that this act shall not affect the jurisdiction over or disposition of any suit removed from a court of any State, or suit
commenced in any court of the United States, before the passage hereof except as otherwise expressly provided in this act."
In .orey v. Lockhart, 123 U. S. 56, it was held that this
court had no power to review on appeal or writ- of error an
order of the Circuit Court remanding a cause to a State court,
when it was commenced, removed and remanded after the act
of March 3, 1887, went into effect. In Wilkinson v. Nebraska,
123 U. S. 286, it was decided that the proviso in section six of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the act of March 3, 1887, related only to the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Courts of the United States, and did not confer
upon this court jurisdiction over a writ of error from a judgment remanding a cause to a State court, when the suit was
begun and removed before the act of 1887, but not remanded
until afterwards. In Sherman v. Grinnell, 123 U. S. 679, the
order to remand was made while the act of March 3, 1875,
was in force, but the writ of error was not brought until after
the passage of the act of March 3, 1887, and it was held that
this court could not take jurisdiction. The general rule was
applied in these cases that if a law conferring jurisdiction is
repealed without any reservation as to pending cases, all such
cases fall with the law. Railroad Co. v. Grant, 98 U. S. 398,
401. The opinions in all of them were delivered by Mr. Chief
Justice Waite, and they are decisive upon the disposition of
the case before us.
This case was commenced and removed into the Circuit
Court before the act of 1887 went into effect, but the suit was
remanded afterwards. In this respect the situation is the
same as in Wilkinsom v. _Yebraska, supra.
By the act of February 25, 1889, (25 Stat. 693, c. 236,) it
was provided that in all cases where a final judgment or
decree should be rendered in a Circuit Court of the United
States in which there was a question involving the jurisdiction
of the court, the party against whom the judgment or decree
was rendered should be entitled to an appeal or writ of error
to this court, without reference to the amount of such judgment or decree, but where it did not exceed the sum of $5000,
the question of jurisdiction should alone be reviewable. In
Richmond & Danville Railroad v. Tlouron, 134 U. S. 45,
we held that a remanding order was not a final judgment or
decree, within the terms of that act, and that this court had
no jurisdiction to review it.
It is contended, however, that the order of the Circuit
Court here was such a final judgment, because the Circuit
Court sustained the demurrer in remanding the cause, but the
position is untenable. The demurrer brought into consideration the contention that ihe plaintiffs could not maintain their

THE STEAMS=tP HAVERTON.
Opinion of the Court.

action because the court by law had no jurisdiction of their
case, and thereupon the cause was remanded; and, having been
remanded, this writ of error cannot be maintained, and is
therefore
-Dismissed.

TEE STEAMSHIP HAVERTON.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 60. Argued and submitted November 7, 1890. -Decided

November 17, 1890.

In a collision case in admiralty the valuation of the sunken vessel and
effects was $6057, for which amount the District Court gave judgment.
The Circuit Court, on appeal, awarded one-half the valuation, viz.:
e3028.50. Held, that this court had no jurisdiction on appeal.
The Hesper, 122 U. S. 126; and The Alaska, 130 U. S. 201, distinguished.
THE

case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

This was a libel filed to recover the value of the pilot-boat
Mary and Catherine, sunk in a collision, and also of certain
personal effects on board of her at the time. The value of the
pilot-boat was determined by the Circuit Court to have been
$5025, and of the personal effects, all of which were a total
loss, to have been $1032. This made a total valuation, according to the findings, of $6057. For this amount a decree had
been entered by the District Court, but on appeal the Circuit
Court awarded the sum of $3028.50, one-half the valuation.
From that decree an appeal was taken to this court by the
libellants.
-Mr. James Parkerfor libellants and appellants.
Xr. J. .McConnell, for appellees, submitted on his brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

court.
VOL. Cxx-V-10

delivered the opinion of the

