PACKER v. BIRD.
Syllabus.

earnings of said corporation, leaving the sum of $50,000 as the
actual outlay by plaintiff and the other purchasers of the
mine. They cannot, therefore, be included in the estimate of
the original cost as between the two parties to this suit.
Equally conclusive, in our opinion, is the 10th finding of
facts, taken in connection with the 8th, upon the question
of the defendant's counter-claim. It appears from that finding that the defendant, at the request of the plaintiff, delivered
to plaintiff 500 shares of stock to enable the latter to fill a
sale, and 25 shares which the plaintiff desired to give to
another person. This stock was delivered to plaintiff, subject
to the adjustment of their stock account. We think the pleadings and findings in this case fully sustain the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Utah Territory, and it is, therefore,
Afrned.

PACKER v. BIRD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME
No. 111.

COURT

OF

Submitted December 3, 1890.-

THE STATE

OF

CALIFORNIA.

Decided January 19, 1891.

The undoubted rule of the common law that the title of owners of land
bordering on navigable rivers above the ebb and flow of the tide extends
to the middle of the stream, having been adopted in some of the States,
and not being recognized in other States, Federal Courts must construe
grants of the general government without reference to the rules of
construction adopted by the States for such grants by them.
Whatever incidents or rights attach to the ownership of property conveyed
by the United States bordering on navigable streams, will be determined
by the States in which it is situated, subject to the limitation that their
rules do not impair the efficacy of the grant, or the use and enjoyment
of the property by the grantee.
The legislation of Congress for the survey of the public lands recognizes
the general rule as to the public interest in waters of navigable streams
without reference to the existence or absence of the tide in them.
The highest court of California having decided that the Sacramento river
bein- navigable in fact, a title upon it extends no farther than to the edge
of the stream, this court accepts that decision as expressing the law of
the State.
The plaintiff claimed land in California under a Mexican grant which was

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
confirmed by a decree of the District Court of the United States for
the Northern District of California, in which the land was described as
follows: "Commencing at the northerly boundary of said rancho, at a
point on the Sacramento River just two leagues northerly from the
rancheria called Lojot, and running southerly on themargin of said river
to a point," etc. The survey under that decree was incorporated into
the patent, and described the eastern boundary of the tract as commencing at a certain oak post "on the right bank of the Sacramento River,"
and thence "traversing the right bank of the Sacramento River down
stream" certain courses and distances. Held, that the title under this
patent did not extend beyond the edge of the stream, and that it did
not include an island opposite the tract, and separated from it by a
channel of the river which lay between it and the principal channel.

THIS was an action for the possession of an island, embracing about eighty acres of land, in the river Sacramento, within
the county of Colusa, in the State of California. The plaintiff
alleged ownership of the premises in 1867, and his continued
ownership afterwards, the entry of the defendants thereon in
January, 1883, without right or title, and their continued unlawful possession thereof ever since, to his damage of two
hundred dollars. The answer of the defendants was a general denial of the allegations of the complaint. The issues
were tried by the court, without the intervention of a jury, by
stipulation of the parties. The court found for the defendants,
and directed judgment in their favor. A motion for a new
trial was denied, and, on appeal to the Supreme Court of the
State the judgment and the order refusing a new trial were
both affirmed. To review that judgment the case was brought
to this court.
The river Sacramento is navigable from its mouth or outlet
to a point above the premises in controversy. Indeed, it is
one of the great rivers of the State, and is navigable over two
hundred and fifty miles.
The muniments of title, introduced by the plaintiff, consisted
of a patent of the United States, issued in December, 1857, to
Francis Larkin and others, for a tract of land in the county of
Colusa, known as the rancho of Larkin's children; a decree
partitioning the land among the patentees, and intermediate
conveyances from one of them to the plaintiff. In June, 1857,
a survey of the land covered by the patent was made by the

PACKER v. BIRD.

โข663

Statement of the Case.

proper officers of the United States, pursuant to a decree of the
District Court of the United States for the Northern District of
California, rendered in January, 1856, confirming an imperfect
Mexican grant of the tract, and ascertaining and determining
its location. That decree described the land as follows:
"Commencing at the northerly boundary line of said rancho,
at acpoint an the Sacr'anento River, just two leagues northerly
from the rancheria called Lojot, and running southerly on the
iargin of said river, to a point which is five leagues south of
the place of beginning; thence west two leagues; thence
north in a parallel line with said river, and two leagues therefrom, five leagues; and thence east two leagues to the place
of beginning; and so as to contain the area of ten square
leagues within said lines."
The survey, which was incorporated in the patent, described
the eastern boundary line of the tract as commencing at a
certain oak post "on the right bank of the Sacramento
River," and thence "traversing the right bank of the Sacramento River down stream" certain courses and distances.
Among other things the court found that from 1853 to
1858, and both prior and subsequent thereto, the waters of the
Sacramento River divided into two streams at the upper or
northerly end of the island in controversy; that one of the
sreams flowed through a channel extending around the easterly side of the island, and the other through a channel extending around the westerly side; that during this period both of
the channels were plain and well defined, and had high banks,
and the waters of the river flowed and still continued to flow
through both of them at all seasons of the year; that the two
channels and streams of water reunited at the lower or southerly end of the island; and that each of the channels and
streams constituted a part of the Sacramento River, which
was navigable, "both in fact and by statute;" that during
the greater portion of each year the channel on the westerly
side of the land in dispute was navigable, and was during the
period mentioned actually navigated; but that the usual and
most direct route for steamers was along the channel running
east of the island.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Ar. M. C. Belcher for plaintiff in error.
We contend that the land conveyed by the patent in question, extends at least to the margin of the navigable channel
of the river; that the land in controversy is a part of the land
so conveyed, unless it is separated from that land by a navigable channel of the river; and that the state court therefore
erred in holding that it is not material whether the slough to
the west of this tract is navigable or not navigable.
If the river mentioned in the patent were not navigable in
law, the lands granted, being bounded by the "margin" of
the river, would extend to the thread of the stream. Ex parte
Jennings, 6 Cowen, 518; S. C. 16 Am. Dec. 447; Jones v.
Soulard, 24 How. 41; Howard v. Ingersoll, 13 How. 381.
The doctrine of these cases includes cases like the present,
where the stream, though navigable in fact, is above tidewater. But later cases in this court disregard that distinction,
and hold that the title to lands bordering on streams navigable
infact, whether tidal or not, stops, under the acts of Congress,
at the stream.
It is not necessary in this case to discuss this distinction.
Treating this river as navigable in the common law sense, it is
manifest that the grant in question extends to the stream, that
the grantee is a riparian proprietor, with the right of acceis
to the channel, and that there can be no vacant land left for
appropriation between the river and the river boundary of
such tract. Railroad Co. v. Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272, 287;
County of St. Clair v. Lovingston, 23 Wall. 46, 63.
This being so, it is clear that, unless plaintiff's land extends
to the navigable channel, it is not bounded by the river at all.
It is only the navigability of the river which prevents his title
from running to the middle of the stream. But that very
fact entitles him to access to the navigable channel, and to
the right to construct landings and wharves for the convenience of commerce and navigation. If the "slough" on the
west of this parcel of land is not navigable, and is yet the
eastern boundary of plaintiff's land, it would follow that
plaintiff is deprived of all access to the river for purposes of

PACKER v. BIRD.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

commerce and navigation, and that there is vacant land left
for approltiation between his land and the river ; -neither of
which things can legally be true. A slough of this character
cannot be considered a part of the river, so as to constitute a
boundary, unless it is itself navigable. This necessarily follows from the ruling in Railroad Comj ny v. Schurneir. It
was there held that, by the terms of the acts of Congress
regulating the survey of the public lands, the margin of a
navigable river should constitute the boundary of lands bordering thereov. By this must be intended the navigable
stream itself, not some unnavigable branch or fork of it.
Indeed, when the boundaries of land are described as extending to a river, the main river, and not a branch, slough, or
bayou, is the termination of those lines. Graves v. Fisher, 5
Greenl. 69.
The state court sought to distinguish this case from the
Schurmeir case, saying: "The court in the case cited manifestly did not hold the land in controversy to be an island.
The slough, so-called, in that case was not nor was it held to
be a part of the Mississippi River."
This is, of course, true. But, when we examine the facts of
that case, we find that the reasons for so holding apply equally
to this case. The land in that case was a parcel which, at
very low water, was separated from the main body by a slough
or channel, twenty-eight feet. wide, through which no water
flowed, but in which water remained in pools; at medium
water, the water flowed through the slough, making an island
of the parcel; and, at high water, the whole parcel was submerged. No mention was made of any such channel in the
official survey under which the patent was issued. It is evident that those facts correspond with those held by the state
court in this case to be sufficient to prevent a recovery by
plaintiff. The slough there was as much a part of the Mississippi River as the slough here is a part of the Sacramento
River. Each of them was connected with the river at each
end, and each received its water from the river. The reason
why this court held the slough in the former case not to be a
part of the Mississippi River, was because it was not navigable,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and because, if it were held to be the boundary, there would
remain vacant land between the navigable stream and the
land in terms bounded on that stream, thus cutting off the
riparian owner from access to the stream. But that is
the precise proposition which the state court held to be immaterial in this case; and, in so ruling, that court manifestly
misconstrued the acts of Congress under which plaintiff's title
was obtained.
.Lr. Charles .

_Fox for defendant in error.

MR. JusTicE FIELD after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The question presented is, whether the patent of the United
States, describing the eastern boundary of the land as commencing at a point on the river, which was on the right and
west bank, and running southerly on its margin, embraces the
island within it, or whether, notwithstanding the terms of
apparent limitation of the eastern boundary to the margin of
the river, the patent carries the title of the plaintiff holding
under it to the middle of the stream. The contention of the
plaintiff is that the land granted and patented, being bounded
on the river, extends to the middle of the stream, and thus includes the island. It does not appear in the record that the
waters of the river at the point where the island is situated
are affected by the tides; but it is assumed that such is not
the case. The contention of the plaintiff proceeds upon that
assumption.
It is undoubtedly the rule of the common law that the title
of owners of land bordering on rivers above the ebb and flow
of the tide extends to the middle of the stream, but that where
the waters of the river are affected by the tides, the title of
such owners is limited to ordinary high-water mark. The
title to land below that mark in such cases is vested in England in the Crown, and in this country in the State within
whose boundaries the waters lie, private ownership of the
soils under them being deemed inconsistent with the interest

PACKER

v. BIRD.

Opinion of the Court.

of the public at large in their use for purposes of commerce.
In England this limitation of the right of the riparian owner
is confined to such navigable rivers as are affected by the
tides, because there the, ebb and flow of the tide constitute
the usual test of the navigability of the streams. No rivers
there, at least none of any considerable extent, are navigable
in fact, which are not subject to the tides. In this country
the situation is wholly different. Some of our rivers are navigable for many hundreds of miles above the limits of tidewater, and by vessels larger than any which sailed on the
seas when the common law rule was established. A different
test must, therefore, be sought to determine the navigability
of our rivers, with the consequent rights both to the public
and the riparian owner, and such test is found in their navigable capacity. Those rivers are regarded as public navigable
rivers in law which are navigable in fact. And, as said in the
case of Tne -Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 563: "they are navigable in fact when they are used, or are susceptible of being
used, in their ordinary condition, as highways for commerce,
over which trade and travel are or may be conducted in the
customary modes of trade and travel on water."
The same reasons, therefore, exist in this country for the
exclusion of the right of private ownership over the soil under
navigable waters when they are susceptible of being used as
highways of commerce in the ordinary modes of trade and
travel on water, as when their navigability is determined by
the tidal test. It is, indeed, the susceptibility to use as highways of commerce which gives sanction to the public right of
control over navigation upon them, and consequently to the
exclusion of private ownership, either of the waters or the
soils under them. The common law doctrine on this subject,
prevailing in England, is held in some of the States, but in a
large number has been considered as inapplicable to the navigable waters of the country, or, even if prevailing for a time
has given way, or been greatly modified, under the different
conditions there.
It has been adopted in most, if not all, of the New England
States. In New York, in the earlier cases, it was considered

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

as in force; and in Ex parte Jennings, 6 Cowen, 518, was
formally declared. There a patent of lands by the State,
bounded on the margin of a river above tide-water, was held
to carry the land granted to the middle of the stream, the
court stating that the rule was otherwise where the land was
bounded on a navigable river, but adding that by the term
"navigable river," the law did not mean such as is navigable
in common parlance; that the smallest creek might be so to
a certain extent as well as the largest river, without being
legally a navigable stream; and that the term has in law a
technical meaning, and applies to all streams, rivers or arms
of the sea where the tide ebbs and flows. This doctrine was
modified and finally overruled in subsequent cases.
In People v. Canal Appraisers,33 N. Y. 461, 499, the whole
,subject of the rights of riparian owners on navigable streams,
whether affected or not by the ebb and flow of the tide, was
elaborately considered, with a careful examination of the
adjudged cases in the different States, and the conclusion
reached was against the applicability of the common law rule
in this country. The court in its opinion refers to the great
embarrassment experienced by courts, judges and text-writers
in applying the principles of the common law to the waters of
this continent, the variant conclusions reached by them, and
the contradictory and unsatisfactory reasons given for the
results arrived at; and, after tracing the progress of judicial
discussi6n of the doctrine of the common law on the subject, it
expresses satisfaction that the discussion*had culminated in the
decision by the court of ultimate appeal repudiating the applicability of the doctrine to the rivers of that State, and establishing what it terms "the better doctrine of the civil law."
In Pennsylvania the common law doctrine was never recognized. In Afonongakela Bridge Co. v. iOrk, 46 Penn. St.
112, 120, the Supreme Court of that State, in holding that
the river Monongahela was a navigable stream, and that its
soil up to low-water mark, and the river itself, were the property of the Commonwealth, said:
"We are aware that by the common law of England such'
streams as the Mississippi, the Missouri, the rivers Amazon and

PACKER v. BIRD.
Opinion of the Court.

Platte, the Rhine, the Danube, the Po, th'e Nile, the Euphrates,
the Ganges and the Indus, were not navigable rivers, but
were the subject of private property, whilst an insignificant
creek in a small island was elevated to the dignity of a public
river, because it was so near the ocean that the tide ebbed
and flowed up the whole of its petty course. The Roman
law, which has pervaded Continental Europe, and which took
its rise in a country where there was a tideless sea, recognized
all rivers as navigable which were really so, and this common
sense view was adopted by the early founders of Pennsylvania,
whose province was intersected by large and valuable streams,
some of which are a mile in breadth."
In the courts of the -Western States there is much conflict
of opinion, some, like the courts of Illinois, adopting the common law rule to its fullest extent ; and others, like the courts
of Iowa, repudiating its application in determining the navigability of the great rivers, and the rights of riparian owners
upon them. A very elaborate consideration of the adjudged
cases on the subject is found in .kUJManus v. Carmichael,
3 Iowa., 1. Indeed, the opinion of the Supreme Court of Iowa
in that case, and the opinion of the Court of Appeals of New
York in People v. Canal Appraisers, above cited, contain an
exhaustive and instructive consideration of the whole subject,
with a careful review of the decisions of the courts of the
States. In this case we accept the view of the Supreme
Court of California in its opinion as expressing the law of
that State, "that the Sacramento River being navigable in
fact, the title of the plaintiff extends no farther than the edge
of the stream." Linx v. llaggin, 69 California, 255.
The courts of the United States will construe the grants of
the general government without reference to the rules of construction adopted by the States for their grants; but whatever
incidents or rights attach to the ownership of property conveyed by the government will be determined by the States,
subject to the condition that their rules do not impair the efficacy of the grants or the use and enjoyment of the property
by the grantee. As an incident of such ownership the right
of the riparian owner, where the waters are above the influ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ence of the tide, will be limited according to the law of the
State, either to low or high-water mark, or will extend to the
middle of the stream. It is, therefore, important to ascertain
and determine what view will be taken by the courts of the
United States in the construction of grants of the general government in conferring ownership, when they embrace lands
bordering on navigable waters above the influence of the
tide. How far will such grants be deemed to extend into the
water, if at all? From the conflicting decisions of the state
courts cited, it is evident that there is no such general law on
the subject as will be deemed to control their construction.
In the courts of the United States the rule of the common
law in determining the navigability of rivers, and the effect
thereof upon the jurisdiction of the court, has been disregarded
since the decision of the case of The Genesee Ohief, 12 How.
443, 455. This court there said that there was nothing in the
ebb and flow of the tide which made a stream suitable for
admiralty jurisdiction, nor anything in the absence of the tide
that rendered it unfit; that if a stream was a public navigable
water, on which commerce was carried on between different
States and nations, the reason for the jurisdiction was precisely the same; and that any distinction made on that account
was merely arbitrary, without any foundation in reason, and
indeed Would seem to be inconsistent with it. The eminent
Chief Justice who delivered the opinion in that case explained
how in England the ebb and flow of the tide became the test
of the navigability of a stream, as we have stated it above;
that there tide-waters, with a few small and unimportant exceptions, meant nothing more than public rivers as contradistinguished from private ones; and that hence arose the
doctrine of admiralty jurisdiction, which was confined to the
ebb and flow of the tide; in other words, to public navigable
waters. He then added: "As the English definition was
adopted in our courts, and constantly used in judicial proceedings and forms of pleading, borrowed from England, the public
character of the river was in process of time lost sight of, and
the jurisdiction of the admiralty treated as if it was limited by
the tide. The description of a public navigable river was sub-

PACKER v. BIRD.
Opinion of the Court.

stituted in the place of the thing intended to be described.
And under the natural influence of precedents and established
forms, a definition originally correct was adhered to and acted
on, after it had ceased, from a change in circumstances, to
be the true description of public waters."
In Barney v. Heokuk, 94 U. S. 324, 338, the same subject
in some of its features, was under consideration in this court,
and the language used is especially applicable to cases like the
one before us. That action was against the city of Keokuk
and a steam packet company, to recover the possession of
certain premises occupied by them with railroad tracks, buildings and sheds on the bank of the Mississippi River, and in
that city. The court, in considering the question presented,
observed that "the confusion of navigable with tide-water,
found in the monuments of the common law, long prevailed
in this country, notwithstanding the broad differences existing
between the extent and topography of the British Island and
that of the American Continent. It had the influence for two
generations of excluding the admiralty jurisdiction from our
great rivers and inland seas; and under the like influence it
laid the foundation in many States of doctrines with regard
to the ownership of the soil in navigable waters above tidewater at variance with sound principles of public policy.
Whether, as rules of property, it would now be safe to change
these doctrines where they have been applied, as before remarked, is for the several States themselves to determine. If
they choose to resign' to the riparian proprietor rights which
properly belong to them in their sovereign capacity, it is not
for others to raise objections. In our view of the subject the
correct principle was laid down in -la'rtin v. ITaddell, 16 Pet.
367; Pollard'sLessee v. Hlagan,3 How.212; and Goodtitle v.
ibb,, 9 How. 471. These cases related to tide-water, it is true;
but they enunciate principles which are equally applicable to
all navigable waters. And since this court, in the case of The
(enesee Chief, 12 How.443, has declared that the great lakes
and other navigable waters of the country, above as well as
below the flow of the tide, are, in the strictest sense, entitled
to the denomination of navigable waters, and amenable to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

admiralty jurisdiction, there seems to be no sound reason for
adhering to the old rule as to the proprietorship of the beds
and shores of such waters. It properly belongs to the States
by their inherent sovereignty, and the United States has wisely
abstained from extending (if it could extend) its survey and
grants beyond the limits of high water."
The legislation of Congress for the survey of the public lands
recognizes the general rule as to the public interest in waters
of navigable streams without reference to the existence or
absence of the tide in them. As early as 1796, in an act providing for the sale of such lands in the territory northwest of
the river Ohio and above the mouth of Kentucky River,
Congress declared "that all navigable rivers within the territory to be disposed of by virtue of the act shall be deemed to
be and remain public highways; and that in all cases where
the opposite banks of any stream, not navigable, shall belong
to different persons, the stream and the bed thereof shall
become common to both." Act of May 18, 1796, c. 29, ยง 9, 1
Stat. 468.
In Railroad Company v. Schurrneir,7 Wall. 272, 288, the
court said that in view of this legislation and other similar acts
it did not "hesitate to decide, that Congress, in making a distinction between streams navigable and those not navigable,
intended to provide that the common law rules of riparian
ownership should apply to lands bordering on the latter, but
that the title to lands bordering on navigable streams should
stop at the stream, and that all such stieams should be deemed
to be and remain public highways." The same rule applies
when the survey is made and the patent is issued upon a confirmation of a previously existing right or equity of the patenree to the lands, which in the absence of such right or
equity would belong absolutely to the United States, unless
the claim confirmed in terms embraces the land under the
waters of the stream.
The language of the decree of confirmation describing the
tract confirmed, and the language of the survey incorporated
in the patent, both clearly indicate that the margin of the
river was intended as the eastern boundary of the tract con-

UNITED STATES v. PAGE.
Statement of the Case.

firmed, and we find nothing either in any act of Congress or
in any decision of the Federal courts which would enlarge the
effect of the grant. The title of one claiming under the patent
does not, therefore, extend beyond the edge of the stream.
The judgment of the court below is accordingly
Afirrned

UNITED STATES v. PAGE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 1249.Submitted January 5, 1891.-Decided January 19, 1891.

The decision of the President confirming or disapproving the sentence of
a general court-martial in time of peace extending to the loss of life or
the dismission of a commissioned officer, or in time of peace or war
respecting a general officer, under the provisions of the 65th Article of
war, is a judicial act to be done by him personally, and is not an official
act presumptively his; but it need not be attested by his sign manual in
order to be effectual.
Rankle v. United States, 122 U. S. 543, distinguished from this case.

FRmxic A. PAGE filed his petition in the Court of Claims on
the 31st day of August, 1887, stating:
"I. That he is a citizen of the United States and a resident
of the District of Columbia. II. That on the 18th day of
January, A.D. 1865, he was duly appointed and commissioned
as a second lieutenant in the Veteran Reserve Corps of the
volunteer army of the United States, and served as such officer
until the 20th day of September, A.D. 1866, when he was honorably mustered out of such military service of the United
States. III. That on the 3d day of October, A.D* 1866, he
was duly appointed and commissioned as a second lieutenant
in the Forty-fourth Regiment of Infantry of the Army of theUnited States, to rank as such from the 28th day of July, A.D.
1866, and that he accepted such appointment on the 3d day
of October, 1866. IV. That he served in said capacity until
the 3d day of August, 1870, when he was transferred to the
Tenth Infantry. V. That he continued to serve in said lastVOL. cxxxvN-43

