OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

declared that they were made to carry out the provisions in
this behalf, and did not affect or otherwise interfere with the
provisions of the agreement.
It was concluded that the stipulations of Article VI had
not the force and effect of the thing adjudged, and were lawfully liable to attack in the mode and manner adopted by the
defendant. It was added that this conclusion was mainly
predicated upon the view that the agreement in its entirety
did not evidence a single and connected contract, but that the
instrument was used as a means to facilitate the execution by
two. representatives of numerous obligors and distinct obligees
of a series of varied and distinct contracts.
By this decision was the validity or due effect of either of
these decrees disallowed by the state court? We do not,
think so.
The decrees were entered by consent, and in accordance
with the agreement, the courts merely exercising an administrative function in recording what had been agreed to between
the parties, and it was open to the Supreme Court of Louisiana
to determine, upon general principles of law, that the validity
of Article VI was not in controversy or passed upon in the
causes in which the decrees were rendered. In doing so, that
court did not refuse to give due effect to the final judgment of
a court of the United States or of another State.
The judgment is
.Afirmed.

SIIENFIELD v. NASHAWANNUOK
ING COmPANY.

MANUFACTUR-

APPEAL FROM THE CMOUIT COURT

UNrTED

OF THE

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 19. Argued October 21,1890.-Decided November 3,1890.

In view of the previous condition of the art, the claim patented to Abraham
Shenfield by letters patent No. 169,855, dated November 9, 1875, for an
improvement in suspender button straps, involved no invention.

SHENFIELD v. NASHAWANNUCK MI'F'G CO.
Statement of the Case.

Tns was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York, dismissing, with costs, appellant's bill of complaint filed for infringement of letters patent granted to him, dated November
9, 1875, No. 169,855, for an improvement in "suspender button
straps." The cause was heard upon the pleadings and proofs.
The opinion by Shipman, J., will be found reported in 27 Fed.
Rep. 808; 23 Blatchford, 541.
The specification and claim, with references to the drawings,
were as follows:
"Suspender-ends have been made of leather, felt, jean, and
similar material, with the button-hole cut in the same, and in
most instances the materials have been pasted together, in
addition to lines of stitching surrounding the button-hole.
"Suspender-ends have also been made of a round cord, with
the ends turned back and fastened to form loops; but this
round cord is objectionable, as it does not lie flat against the
person or beneath the buttons.
"I make use of a suspender-end made of a double flattened
cord or strip, bent around into a loop, and united together,
leaving sufficient of the loop open to form the button-hole.
At the other end the suspender-end is united to a buckle or
clasp by a loop, or folded piece of leather, or other material
stitched to the suspender-end. My suspender-end, made as
aforesaid, is a new and very useful article of manufacture.
"In the drawing Fig. 1 is a perspective view of the suspender complete, and Fig. 2 illustrates the mode of making
the suspender-end.
"The straps a and buckles b of the suspender are of any
usual or desired character, and the suspender-ends c are received between the attaching-pieces d, and united by sewing
or otherwise. Each suspender-end is formed of a flattened
cord or strip folded to form the button-hole loop 2, and the
edges united together, as at 3, so as to leave the necessary
opening for the button.
"The cord or strip of flat material is composed of silk, linen,
cotton, worsted, or other suitable threads, or a mixture of two
or more, and the threads are woven, braided, knitted, crocheted,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

or otherwise laid up into the form of a complete flat cord or
strip, and when the strip is folded to form the button-hole
loop the seam at 3 may be made by sewing, knitting, crocheting, or otherwise; or the knitting or crocheting is commenced
at the central line 3, and extended at both sides thereof and
around the button-hole by the successive ranges of interlocked
loops.
"This suspender-end can either be made by hand or by
machinery.
"I claim as my invention "The suspender-end made of a flat cord or strip of fibrous
material, bent into a loop, laid flatwise, united at the inner
edges 3, and connected to the attaching-pieces d, as set forth."
It was stipulated: "That prior to the year 1870 there had
frequently been publicly used in the manufacture and wearing
of cloaks and jackets button-loops formed of flat braid bent
edgewise upon itself and sewed together at the meeting edges,
leaving an opening for the button-hole at the bend; that the
ends of the. braid in such button-loops were permanently
attached to a button or like device which was affixed to one
side of the body of the garment, and that the button-loop held
the garment together by being buttoned on to a button or like
device sewed to the other side of the garment, and that when
in use the braid forming the button-loop rested under the button, and that such braids were made by machinery."
Various letters patent were put in evidence on defendant's
behalf, as follows: To H. F. Briggs, No. 5565, dated May 16,
1848, for "Improvement in Shoulder Braces;" to J. Hlotchkiss,
No. 8606, dated December 23, 1851, for "Improvement in
Suspenders;" to J. Hotchkiss, No. 11,160, dated June 27,
1854, for "Improvement in Manufacturing Suspender-Ends ;"
to D. W. Canfield, No. 37,149, dated December 16, 1862, for
"Improvement in Combined Shoulder-Brace and Suspender;"
to A. W. Upton, No. 47,348, dated April 18, 1865, for "Improvement in Suspenders;" and to T. J. Flagg, No. 144,970,
dated November 25, 1873, for "Improvetnent in Suspenders."
There also appeared in evidence a description and illustration
of crocheted towel loops, from Harper's Bazar of September,

SHENFLELD v. IASHAWANNUCK M'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

1868, and an extract from the same publication of July, 1871,
with a design showing a crocheted suspender-end united at the
inner edges just above the button-hole and attached to a crocheted attaching piece.
.A.

E. N. .Dickerson for appellant.

.i. Tlliam A. Jenner for appellees.
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

The suspender-end of the appellant's patent is a button-loop
of fiat cord or strip of fibrous material "bent edgewise upon
itself and sewed together at the meeting edges, leaving an
opening for the button-hole at the bend," as described in the
instance of cloak-button loops made of flat braid. It appears
from the specification, stipulation or proofs that suspenderends of round cord, with the ends turned back and fastened to
form loops, were known when this patent was procured, as
were also suspender-ends of flat material and with the inner
edges united by stitching, or by a clamp, just above the
button-hole, so as to form it. The prior patents and the crocheted towel loops and suspender-ends also illustrate the common practice of uniting the suspender-ends to attaching pieces
of leather or cloth.
We agree with the learned judge holding the Circuit Court,
that it did not involve invention "to make a suspender-end of
flat cord in substantially the same way that suspender-ends of
round cord had been made, and in substantially the same way
in which flat button ends had been made for the purpose of
fastening or securing other articles of wearing apparel than
trousers." The connection of the end to the attaching piece
gave no patentable character to the loop and was old, as was
the attachment to the buckle, nor was any new mode of
operation produced by the combination of the devices in this
article.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Aflrmed.

