OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

sons had before attempted unsuccessfully to make a machine
to cut bretzels, and had expended considerable money and
time for that purpose, it is to be said, as stated by the Circuit
Court, that most of them were engaged in trying to draw out
and twist the dough by machinery, rather than to cut out the
form of a bretzel by a single die from a flat sheet, or else were
endeavoring to cut bretzels with dies set in revolving cylinders.
It also appears that those efforts were largely made in attempts to cut out the bretzel by two opposite dies, and that,
as soon as the idea occurred of cutting the dough by a single
die from a flat sheet, success came at once, by merely changing
the shape of the old single die. It also appears, as suggested
by the Circuit Court, that there was a prejudice against machinemade bretzels.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
-Affirmed.

HOSTETTER v. PARK.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 3.

Argued and submitted October 21, 1890. -Decided

November 3, 1890.

A bill of lading for goods shipped at Pittsburg for New Orleans, on a
barge towed by a steam-tug, stated that the goods were "to be delivered
without delay," "the dangers of navigation, fire, and unavoidable accidents excepted." The barge was taken safely down the Ohio River to
Mt. Vernon, and was then towed up the river and took on cargo at several places not over about three miles above Aft. Vernon. After making
the last landing she struck an unmarked, unknown and hidden object
below the surface of the water, which caused her to sink, without negligence on her part or that of the tug, and by an unavoidable accident,
thereby damaging the shipper's cargo. On a libel in admiralty, in personaa, by the shipper against the owners of the barge and the tug, the
Circuit Court, on an appeal from the District Court, which had dismissed
the libel, found the foregoing facts, and that it always had been the general and established usage, in the trade in question, for a tug and barges
to follow the practice adopted in this case, and that such usage tended
to cheapen the cost of transportation, facilitated business, and conduced

IIOSTETTER v. PARK.
Statement of the Case.
to the safety of the whole tow, and was, therefore, a reasonable usage.
The libel having been dismissed by the Circuit Court: Held, on appeal,
(1) This court is concluded by the facts found by the Circuit Court;
(2) The usage in question is to be presumed conclusively to have been
known to the shipper, so as to have formed part of the bill of
lading, and to control its terms, and to have brought the accident
within the exceptions therein;
(3) It is no deviation, in respect to a voyage named in a bill of lading,
for a vessel to touch and stay at a port out of its course, if such
departure is within the general and established usage of the trade,
even though such usage be not known to the particular shipper;
(4) Parties who cQntract on a subject matter concerning which known
usages prevail, incorporate such usages by implication into their
agreements, if nothing is said to the contrary.

Tnis was a libel in admiralty, in personam, brought in the
District Court of the United States for the Western District of
Pennsylvania, by David Hostetter and George W. Smith,
copartners as Hostetter & Smith, against R. 0. Gray and the
executors of M. W. Beltzboover, deceased, as owners of the
steam-tug Iron Mountain and the barge Ironsides No. 3, to
recover $10,182.76, with interest, for damages sustained by
the libellants, by the loss of sundry boxes of bitters and other
merchandise shipped by the libellants at Pittsburg on board
the barge Ironsides No. 3, towed by the steam-tug Iron Mountain, to be transported from Pittsburg to New Orleans. The
libel was filed March 4, 1880. The bill of lading for the shipment was made December 5, 1874, and the loss occurred December 18, 1874. The bill of lading stated that the articles
shipped were "in good order and condition," and were "to
be delivered without delay, in like good order, at the port of
New Orleans, La. (the dangers of navigation, fire and unavoidable accidents excepted)."
The libel alleged that Gray and Beltzhoover were the owners of the tug and the barge at the time of the shipment and
the loss; that the goods were shipped on board of the barge;
that the tug, having the barge and other barges in tow, proceeded down the Ohio River and arrived safely at Mt. Vernon,
Indiana, on December 17, 1874, and there took on board of
the barge additional cargo; that the tug, instead of proceeding
down the river and towards New Orleans without delay and

OCTOBER TERI,

1890.

Statement of the Case.

in accordance with the bill of lading, dropped or left all of the
barges except the Ironsides No. 3, and wrongfully and without notice to the libellants deviated from and abandoned the
voyage to New Orleans, by steaming up the Ohio River several miles to the town of New York Landing, in Henderson
County, Kentucky, and there took on board of the barge additional cargo; that, on December 18, 1874, the voyage down
the river was again undertaken, by attempting to pass for the
third time over the distance between New York Landing and
Mt. Vernon; that, shortly after leaving that landing, or in
rounding out therefrom, or at a point about half a mile or a
mile below, and before again reaching M1t. Vernon, the barge,
being in tow of the tug and having on board the goods of the
libellants, struck some unseen obstruction and sank in deep
water, causing the loss and damage in question; and that such
deviation and temporary abandonment of the voyage was contrary to the contract entered into by the bill of lading, and
against the law governing common carriers.
The answer of the respondents averred that the goods were
shipped by the libellants with the understanding and knowledge that the respondents had the right to complete the cargo
of the barge at any place between Pittsburg and New Orleans
where they might be able to secure the same, and to receive
and discharge cargo upon and from the barge in accordance
with the usage and custom of trade and navigation on the
Ohio and Mississippi rivers. It denied that the steam-tug
and the barges in tow of her abandoned their voyage and refused to proceed thereon without delay, and averred that with
all possible despatch they took on said additional cargo at Mlt.
Vernon and at New York Landing, to which latter place, on
the Ohio River, in the immediate vicinity of Mt. Vernon, the
steam-tug towed the barge Ironsides No. 3, from Mt. Vernon,
according to the usage and custom of navigation upon that
river, and were only prevented from proceeding with the
goods of the libellants towards New Orleans by reason of one
of the dangers of navigation, which occasioned the loss of the
goods and of the barge and its contents; that it was, at the
time stated, and always since the transportation of goods by

HOSTETTER v. PARK.
Statement of the Case.

means of barges towed by steam vessels first began on the
Ohio and Mississippi rivers and their tributaries, had been, the
uniform, continued, general and well and publicly known usage
and custom of such vessels and barges to load partially at the
port of departure, if that was necessary either by reason of
the stage of water or lack of cargo, and to take on additional
cargo at any place where the same might be had between the
ports of, departure and destination; that, on the voyage in
question, the barge left Pittsburg partially laden and arrived
at Mt. Vernon without having secured a full cargo.; that, in
securing additional cargo along the rivers navigated en route
to the port of destination, it was at the time, and had been
since barge navigation of those rivers began, the constant,
general, well-known and uniform custom and usage for the
owners or agents of the vessels and barges to land their fleets
at the larger, safer, and more convenient landings along those
rivers, and there meet and contract with shippers for the transportation of their goods, and then detach from the fleet the
barge or barges designated to receive such cargo, if the cargo
was not there, and send the barge or barges so designated to
the place where the cargo might be stored, whether up, down
or across the river, within such reasonable distance as might
be reached without great or unreasonable delay or expense;
that Mt. Vernon is a point where shippers within a radius of
fifteen or twenty miles therefrom meet carriers upon the Ohio
River, and is the place where shippers whose goods are received
at New York Landing meet and contract with carriers for
their transportation to points below; that, in pursuance of
such general, uniform, constant and well-known usage and
custom, the fleet of barges landed at Mt. Vernon, and the respondents there contracted with certain shippers whose goods
were at New York Landing, a point between two and three
miles above Mt. Vernon, to carry the same to New Orleans,
and detached from the fleet the barge Ironsides No. 3, and the
tug towed her to New York Landing, and there took on board
of her additional cargo, with all possible despatch and without
unreasonable delay; that, in rounding out to leave New York
Landing, the barge, without fault, negligence, or want of skill
voL. cxxcxvu-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

on the part of those navigating her or the steam-tug, ran upon
and struck, in deep and navigable water, an obstruction unknown, unseen, unmarked and in no way indicated, and which
could not have been seen, known or avoided by the exercise
of any degree of skill, care or caution, by reason whereof the
barge was sunk and totally lost and her cargo greatly damaged;
that the voyage was not abandoned or wrongfully deviated
from, but the action of the respondents in the premises was
lawful, customary and right and in accordance with the established usage of the trade in which they were plying, which
usage was well known to the libellants at the time of the shipment of their goods; and that the goods were damaged and
lost through one of the dangers of navigation, within the
exception of the bill of lading.
An amendment to the libel was afterwards filed, setting up
that the sinking of the barge was not the result of an obstruction in the river, but was caused by negligent management on
the part of the employ~s of the respondents, in that the barge,
while at New York Landing, was overloaded on her port side
with sacks of corn, so that she grounded, and, when pulled off
by the steam-tug, careened to the port side with her cargo, so
that a break occurred in her, causing her to sink.
The respondents answered this amendment by a general
denial of its averments.
The District Court made a decree dismissing the libel, with
costs. The opinion of Judge Acheson, the District Judge,
reported in 11 Fed. Rep. 179, sustained the defence of usage.
The libellants appealed to the Circuit Court, which court, held
by Mr. Justice Bradley, dismissed the libel, with costs. The
Circuit Court found the following facts and made the following conclusion of law:
"1. On December 6th, 1874, the steam tow-boat Iron Mountain, having in tow several barges (one called Ironsides No. 3),
partly loaded with a miscellaneous cargo, left Pittsburg bound
for New Orleans. The libellants shipped by the barges 2000
boxes of bitters and eighteen boxes of show-cards, which were
placed on Ironsides No. 3, the bill of lading stipulating that
the goods were Ito be delivered without delay, in like good

HOSTETTER v. PARK
Statement of the Case.

order, at the port of New Orleans, La. (the dangers of navigation, fire, and unavoidable accidents excepted).' A copy of
the bill of lading is annexed to the original libel.
"2. The tow-boat and her barges, after taking on additional
cargo at various intermediate places, arrived safely at Mt.
Vernon, Indiana, 819 miles below Pittsburg, and landed to
take on freight at the Mt. Vernon wharf-boat. The proprietors of the wharf-boat had engaged for the barges corn which
lay piled in sacks at two or three farm landings on the Indiana shore, the furthest pile being about two miles above the
wharf-boat. The tow-boat detached from the fleet the barge
Ironsides No. 3, which was but partly loaded, and proceeded
with it upstream to these piles. After loading this corn the
boat crossed the river with the barge and took on corn which
was offered at two landings on the Kentucky side, viz., New
York Landing, about three miles above the wharf-boat, and
Whitmon's Landing, which is somewhat lower down. After
taking on the corn at Whitmon's the tow-boat started to
return to her fleet, but while backing out in the river the
barge suddenly took water and soon sank, becoming a total
wreck, the cargo, including the libellants' goods, sustaining
great damage. This occurred late in the evening of December 18, 1874. A protest, signed by the officers and some of
the crew, was executed December 23, 1874, assigning as the
cause of the disaster that the boat struck some unseen obstruction. Immediate notice by telegram of the sinking of the
barge with their goods was given the libellants.
"3. That it has been the general usage in the IPittsburg and
New Orleans barge trade, coeval with the commencement of
the business, and constantly practised where cargo is to be
taken on en route to the port of destination at several points
in the same neighborhood, to land and tie up the tow or fleet
of barges at the more commodious and safer landing, and
detach from the tow the barge or barges designated to receive
such cargo, and tow the same to the several points where the
cargo may be stored, whether up or down stream, or across
the river.
"4. That at the time of the sinking of the barge Ironsides.

OCTOBER TERAt, 1890.
Argument for Appellant.

No. 3 it was the general and established usage for barges
towed by steam vessels in the Pittsburg and New Orleans
trade, having cargo to receive at New York Landing and
other points between there and Mt. Vernon, Indiana, to land
and tie up the fleet at the latter place and tow back for such
cargo the barge upon which it was to be placed, and that the
course pursued by the Iron Mountain on the occasion in question was in conformity with such usage of the trade.
"5. That the usage so practised at Mt. Vernon and elsewhere, as mentioned in the foregoing findings, tends to cheapen
the cost of transportation, facilitates business, and conduces to
the safety of the whole tow, and is, therefore, a reasonable
usage.
"6. That while the steam tow-boat Iron Mountain, with the
barge Ironsides No. 3 in tow, was backing out from Whitmon's
Landing, and when out in the river, the barge struck some
unmarked, unknown and hidden object below the surface of
the water, which caused her to take water and sink, and this,
without negligence on the part of the tow-boat, or on the part
of the owners of the tow-boat and barge, their agents or servants; and that it was an unavoidable accident.
"The conclusion of law from the foregoing facts found is,
that the respondents were not liable to the libellants for the
loss, damage and injury complained of in the libel, and that
the libel should be dismissed."
After the decree of the Circuit Court was made, George W.
Smith died, and Hostetter, as surviving partner of the firm,
appealed to this court from the decree of the Circuit Court.
Since the appeal was taken iostetter has died, and his administrator has been substituted as a party, and Gray has died,
and his executors have been substituted as parties.
.A&. A. H. Clarke for appellant.
The questions for discussion are (1) what constitutes a deviation? and, (2), what is ,acustom or usage binding upon a
shipper from Pittsburg to New Orleans direct?
I. Deviation is a voluntary departure without necessity from

HOSTETTER v. PARK.
Argument for Appellant.

the regular and actual course of the voyage. It must be a
necessity, otherwise the carrier is responsible. The Delaware,
14 Wall. 579. Pkxnixe Ins. Co. v. Cochran, 51 Penn. St.
143. An unnecessary deviation would discharge the insurance.
Coles v. lar'ine Ins. Co., 3 Wash. 0. C. 159. Davis v. Garrett,
6 Bing. 716. The shortness of the time or distance of the
deviation is immaterial. .3 aryland Ins. Co. v. Leroy, 7
Cranch, 26. The law applicable to deviation applies equally
to and is in full force on all river and lake navigation. Jolly
v. Ohio Ins. Co., Wright (Ohio), 539. It matters not how
short may be the deviation, nor how harmless, nor, indeed,
does it aid that it should be shown the alteration made a safer
voyage. Fernandez v. Gt. Western Ins. Co., 48 N. Y. 571.
In Brown v. Tayleur, 4 Ad. & El. 241, Coleridge, J., says it
makes a difference whether a ship stays at one place to load,
or goes on a roving voyage to pick up a cargo. So in the case
at bar. The carrier, after steaming eight hundred and nineteen miles, commences a roving voyage to pick up a cargo.
The rule of law is that a ship must visit such ports in the geographical order of their distance from the port of departure.
Olasson, v. Simmonds, 6 T. R. 553. Deblois v. Ocean IZns. Co.,
16 Pick. 303; S. C. 28 Am. Dec. 245. Kane v. Columbian Ins.
Co., 2 Johns. 264.
II. What is necessary to constitute a custom binding upon
a shipper at Pittsburg? In Thie iReeside, 2 Sumner, 567, and
approved in -Honev.*3iutual Safety Ins. Co., 1 Sandford, 137,
Mr. Justice Story said: I own myself no friend to the almost
indiscriminate habit of late years of setting up particular
usages or customs in almost all kinds of business or trade
to control, vary or annul the general liabilities of parties
under the common law as under the commercial law. It has
long appeared to me that there is no small danger in admitting such loose and inconclusive usages and customs, often
unknown to particular parties, and always liable to great misunderstanding and misrepresentation and abuse. See also
,Simmons v. Law, 8 Bosworth (N. Y.) 213.
When parties in the same trade or business differ as to the
existence of a custom it cannot be regarded. Collingsv. Hope,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

3 Wash. C. 0. 149. It must be known by those it will affect.
Adams v. Otterback,15 Hlow. 539; .Dixonv. Dunham, 14 Illinois,
324; Xartin v. Del. Ins. Co., 2 Wash. 0. C. 255; and must be
reasonable, Coleman v. Chadwick, 80 Penn. St. 81; certain
and uniform, Wallace v. .Morgan, 23 Indiana, 399; and limited
in operation, Daun v. London Brewing Co., L. R. 8 Eq. 155.
In the case at bar it is entirely optional with the carrier
whether he will go back 5, 10 or 50 miles or not; hence
invalid for uncertainty. The so-called custom of steaming up
and down the river, indiscriminately, with goods shipped to
go through direct to the terminus of the voyage, must surely
be deemed "bad." There is apparently no limit to it. See
also Wals v. Frank, 19 Arkansas, 270; Strong v. Grand
Trunk Railway, 15 Michigan, 206; S. C. 93 Am. Dec. 184;
Barrett v. Williamson, 4 McLean, 589; Tle Albatross v.
Wayne, 16 Ohio, 513; Wilson v. Bauman, 80 Illinois, 493.
Mr. James H. Reed and Mr'. Philander C. Znox, for appellees, submitted on their brief.
MR. JusTione BLATCHFORD, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

The only questions presented to us by the counsel for the
libellants for consideration are as to what constitutes a deviation from the voyage, and what a custom or usage binding
upon the libellants. No question of fact" is open, because we
are concluded by the facts found by the Circuit Court. Th e
Gazelle, 128 U. S. 474, 484, and cases there cited.
The findings of fact are distinct and specific that "it has
been the general usage in the Pittsburg and New Orleans
barge trade, coeval with the commencement of ihe business,
and constantly practised where cargo is to be taken on en route
to the port of destination at several points in the same neighborhood, to land and tie up the tow or fleet of barges at the
more commodious and safer landing, and detach from the tow
the barge or barges designated to receive such cargo, and tow
the same to the several points where the cargo may be stored,
whether up or down stream or across the river;" that "at the

HOSTETTER v. PARK.
Opinion of the Court.

time of the sinking of the barge Ironsides No. 3 it was the
general and established usage for barges towed by steam
vessels in the Pittsburg and New Orleans trade, having cargo
to receive at New York Landing and other points between
there and Mt. Vernon, Indiana, to land and tie up the fleet at
the latter place and tow back for such cargo the barge upon
which it was to be placed, and that the course pursued by the
Iron Mountain on the occasion in question was in conformity
with such usage of the trade;" that "the usage so practised
at Mt. Vernon and elsewhere, as mentioned in the foregoing
findings, tends to cheapen the cost of transportation, facilitates
business and conduces to the safety of the whole tow, and is,
therefore, a reasonable usage;" that, "while the steam towboat Iron Mountain, with the barge Ironsides No. 3 in tow,
was backing out from Whitmon's Landing, and when out in
the river, the barge struck some unmarked, unknown and
bidden object below the surface of the water, which caused
her .to take water and sink, and this, without negligence on
the part of the tow-boat, or on the part of the owners of the
tow-boat and barge, their agents or servants; and that it was
an unavoidable accident."
The only question presented is, whether the conclusion of
law made by the Circuit Court from the foregoing facts, that
the respondents were not liable to the libellants for the loss
and damage in question, was justified by those facts. On this
point we entirely concur with the Circuit Court. It is true
that that court does not find directly as a fact, what is averred
in the answer, that the usage in question was well known to
the libellants at the time their goods were shipped; but it does
not find to the contrary; thus leaving for consideration the
question of law, whether the existence of such a usage as is
found as a fact, is to be presumed conclusively to have been
known to the libellants, so as to have formed part of the contract of carriage created by the bill of lading, and to control
its terms, and to have made the accident which caused the loss
of the goods of the libellants a danger of navigation and an
unavoidable accident, excepted in the bill of lading. It was
distinctly found by the Circuit Court to have been "an unavoidable accident."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

A deviation is defined to be "a voluntary departure, without necessity or reasonable cause, from the regular and usual
course" of a voyage, in reference to the terms of a policy of
marine insurance; but it is no deviation, in respect to such a
voyage, to touch and stay at a port out of its course, if such
departure is within the usage of the trade. Coffin v. Newburyport .Xarine ins. Co., 9 Mass. 436, 447; Bentaloe v. Pratt,1
Wall. Jr. 58; Bulkley v. Protection Ins. Co., 2 Paine, 82 ;
Oliver v. -Maryland ins. Co., 7 Cranch, 487, 491 ; Columbian
Ins. Co. v. Catlett, 12 Wheat. 383, 387, 388; Gracie v. Marine
Ins. Co., 8 Oranch, 75, 83; Child v. Sun Ifutual ns. Co., 3
Sandford, 26 ; Iokett v. -Merchants'Ins. Co., 10 Rob. (La.) 339 ;
VFallance v. Dewar, 1 Campb. 503 ; Ougier v. Jennings,I Campb.
505; Kingston v. -Ynibbs, 1 Campb. 508; Jifoxon v. Atkins, 3
Campb. 200; Salvador v. Hopkins, 3 Burrow, 1707 Phillips
on Insurance, sees. 980, 997, 1003.
The same doctrine is applicable in the case of a bill of lading,
even though the usage be not known to the particular shipper,
if it be established as a general usage. Phillips on Insurance,
sees. 980, 1003; Thatcher v. .toCulloh, Olcott, 365, 369, 370;
-Lowry v. Russell, 8 Pick. 360, 362; Ho)Ilastersv. Pennsylvania Railroad,60 Penn. St. 374; PittsburgIns. Co. v. Dravo,
2 Phil. W. N. C. 194.
It is well settled that parties who contract on a subject
matter concerning which known usages prevail, incorporate
such usages by implication into their agreements, if nothing is
said to the contrary. Robinson v. United States, 13 Wall. 363,
366.
The contract in the bill of lading, that the goods are to be
delivered at New Orleans "without delay," is qualified by the
exception of "the dangers of navigation" and "unavoidable
accidents ;" and if the navigation was in its course according
to the usage of the trade, as is found to be the fact, the loss in
question occurred through a danger of navigation. Transportation Co. v. Downer, 11 Wall. 129; The _Favorite, 2 Bissell,
502; Williams v. Grant, 1 Connecticut, 487.
The claim made in the amendment to the libel, that the
sinking of the barge was caused by negligent loading of the

DABLE GRAIN SHOVEL CO. v. FIINT.
Statement of the Case.

sacks of corn, is covered by the finding of fact that the sinking
took place witholit negligence on the part of the steam-tug or
her owners or their agents or servants, and was an unavoidable
accident.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
.Affirmed.

DABLE GRAIN SHOVEL COMPANY v. FLINT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1213. Submitted October 21,1890.-

Decided November 3,1890.

The act of March 3, 1839, c. 88, ยง 7, authorized persons in whose building a
machine was put up by the inventor thereof, and with his knowledge and
consent, while he was in their employment, and before his application
for a patent, to continue to use the specific machive, without paying
compensation to him or his assigns, although asked for after obtaining
the patent; and is not unconstitutional as depriving him of his property
without compensation.

THIS was an action for the infringement of two patents for
improvements in machinery for unloading grain from railroad
cars, issued in 1866 and 1868 to John Dable, and by him since
assigned to the plaintiff.
The defendants filed several pleas, the fourth of which
averred "that the only machines for unloading grain from
railroad cars, ever used by them during the life of either of
said patents set forth in said declaration, were constructed and
put into use in their grain elevators by the said John Dable,
and with his consent and allowance, while he was in their
employ as superintendent of machinery, and prior to his application for either of said letters patent; and thereby, and by
virtue of the statute in such case made and provided, the
defendants became possessed of the right to use oall said
machines during the life of each of said patents, without liability to the said John Dable or the plaintiff."
The parties afterwards filed a stipulation in writing, by which

