OCTOBER TER? 1890.
Syllabus.

pie'8 Bank v. Calhoun, 102 U. S. 256; Krippendorf v. Hyde,
110 U. S. 276.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.

JONES v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES. FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
No. 1143. Argued October 29, 1890. -Decided

November 24, 1890.

The Guano Islands Act of August 18, 1856, c. 164, reenacted in Rev. Stat.
§§ 5570-5578, is constitutional and valid.
Section 6 of the act of August 18, 1856, c. 164, reenacted in Rev. Stat.
§ 5576, does not assume to extend the admiralty jurisdiction over laud, but
merely extends the provisions of the statutes of the United States for
the punishment of offences upon the high seas to like offences upon guano
islands which the President has determined should be considered as
appertaining to the United States.
Under Rev. Stat. §§ 730, 5339, 5576, murder committed on a guano island
which has been determined by the President to appertain to the United
States, may be tried in the courts of the United States for the district
into which the offender is first brought.
By the law of nations, when citizens or subjects of one nation, in its name,
and by its authority or with its assent, take and hold actual, continuous
and useful possession (although only for the purpose of carrying on a
particular business, such as catching and curing fish, or working mines,)
of territory unoccupied by any other government or its citizens, the
nation to which they belong may exercise such jurisdiction and for such
period as it sees fit over territory so acquired.
Who is the sovereign, de jure or de facto, of a territory is not a judicial,
but a political question, the determination of which by the legislative
and executive departments of any government conclusively binds the
judges, as well as all other officers, citizens and subjects of that government.
Courts of justice are bound to take judicial notice of the terrritorial extent
of the jurisdiction exercised by the government whose laws they administer, or of its recognitioif or denial of the sovereignty of a foreign
power, as appearing from the public acts of the legislature and executive, although those acts are not formally put in evidence, nor in accord
with the pleadings.
In the ascertainment of facts of which judges are bound to take judicial

JONES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
notice, as in the decision of matters of law which it is their office to
know, they may refresh their memory and inform their conscience from
such sources as they deem most trustworthy, and as to international
affairs may inquire of the Department of State.
The determination of the President, under the act of August 18, 1856,
c.164, § 1, (Rev. Stat. § 5570,) that a guano island shall be considered as
appertaining to the United States, may be declared through the Department of State, whose acts in this regard are in legal contemplation the
acts of the President.
The Island of Navassa in the Caribbean Sea must, by reason of the action
of the President, as appearing in documents of the Department of State,
be considered as appertaining to the United States.
Under the act of August 18, 1856, c. 164, § 2, (Rev. Stat. § 5574,) a breach of
condition of the bond given by the discoverer of a guano island forfeits
his private rights only, and does not affect the dominion of the United
States over the island, or the jurisdiction of their courts.

THIS cause was argued with No. 1142, Smith v. United
States, and No. 1144, Xiey v. United States, post, 224. On
the application of the counsel for the several plaintiffs in
error it was ordered, that three counsel for plaintiffs in error
be allowed to make oral argument herein. The case is stated
in the opinion.
.Mr. E. J. Waring, .r. John Henry .e ene, Jr., and Mr.
Joseph S.
Arehibald Stirling for plaintiffs in error. .r.
Davis and lMr. J. Edward Stirling were with them on the
brief.
Mr. Attorney General for defendants in error.
MR. JusTIcE GrAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an indictment, found in the District Court of the
United States for the District of Maryland, and remitted to
the Circuit Court under Rev. Stat. § 1039, alleging that Henry
Jones, late of that district, on September 14, 1889, "at Navassa Island, a place which then and there was under the sole
and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, and out of the
jurisdiction of any particular State or district of the United
States, the same being, at the time of the committing of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

offences in the manner and form as hereinafter stated by the
persons hereinafter named, an island situated in the Caribbean
Sea, and named Navassa Island, and which was then and there
recognized and considered by the United States as containing
a deposit of guano, within the meaning and terms of the laws
of the United States relating to such islands, and which was
then and there recognized and considered by the United
States as appertaining to the United States, and which was
also then and there in the possession of the United States,
under the laws of the United States then and there in force
relating to such islands," murdered one Thomas N. Foster, by
giving him three mortal blows with an axe, of which he there
died on the same day; and that other persons named aided
and abetted in the murder. The indictment, after charging
the murder in usual form, alleged that the District of Maryland was the District of the United States into which the
defendant was afterwards first brought from the Island of
Navassa.
The defendant filed a general demurrer, which was overruled, and he then pleaded not guilty. The jury returned a
verdict of guilty ; and a bill of exceptions was tendered by
the defendant, and allowed by the court, in substance as
follows:
At the trial, the United States, to prove that Navassa
Island was recognized and considered by the United States as
appertaining to the United States, and in the possession of the
United States, under the provisions of the laws of the United
States in force with regard to such islands, offered in evidence
certified copies of papers, from the records of the State Department of the United States, as follows:
A copy of a memorial addressed to the Secretary of State
by Peter Duncan, signed and sworn to by him on November
18, 1857, before a commissioner of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Maryland, and certified by
the present Secretary of State to be "a true copy from Senate
Executive Document No. 37, 36th Congress, 1st session, filed
in this department with papers relating to the discovery of
guano on the Island of Navassa," which was in these words:

JONES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

"To the Honorable the Secretary of State of the United
States:
"Peter Duncan, a citizen of the United States, respectfully
represents to the Department of State of the United States
that on the first day of July in the year 1857 he did discover a deposit of guano on an island or key in the Caribbean
Sea, not within the lawful jurisdiction of any other government, and not occupied by the citizens of any other governuent, which said island or key is called Navassa, and lies in
latitude 180 10' north, longitude 750 west, forty-five miles or

thereabouts from the island of St. Domingo, and seventy miles
or thereabouts from the island of Jamaica. The said island
of Navassa is about two miles in length and a mile and a half
in width, apparently of volcanic origin, and elevated about
three hundred feet above the surface of the sea, presenting a
rocky, perpendicular cliff or shore on all sides, except for a
small space to the north. It is covered with small shrubs
upon the surface, beneath which is a deposit of phosphatic
guano, varying in depth from one to six feet, and estimated in
quantity at one million of tons.
"And said claimant further represents that on the 19th day
of September, 1857, he did take peaceable possession of and
occupy said island or key of Kavassa in the name of the
United States, and continues so.to occupy the same, and is
prepared to furnish satisfactory evidence thereof, and of all
others the requisites and facts prescribed by the act of Congress in such case made and provided.
"Wherefore he prays that said key or island of Navassa
may be considered and declared as appertaining to the United
States, and that he, the said claimant, may have the rights
and advantages allowed and secured to him as such discoverer,
which are by the act of' Congress aforesaid provided.
11PETER DIuNO _,."
Also a copy of a proclamation, certified by the present Secretary of State to be "a copy of a proclamation issued by
this Department on the 8th day of December, 1859, in respect

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

to the discovery of guano on the Island of Navassa by Peter
Duncan," which was in these words:
"Lewis Cass, Secretary of State of the United States, to all
to whom these presents shall come, greeting:
"Know ye that Peter Duncan, a citizen of the United
States, has filed in this Department the required notice of the
discovery of guano on and of the occupation of the Island of
Navassa, in the Caribbean Sea, in the name of the United
States of America, the same being in north latitude eighteefl
degrees and ten minutes and in longitude seventy-five degrees west; and that Edward K. Cooper, also a citizen of
the United States, and the assignee of the said Peter Duncan,
has entered into sufficient bonds under and according to the
provisions of the act of the Congress of the United States
passed on the eighteenth day of August in the year eighteen
hundred and fifty-six; wherefore the said Edward K. Cooper
is entitled, in respect to the guano on the said island, to all
the privileges and advantages intended by that act to be
secured to citizens. of the United States who may have discovered deposits of guano; provided always, that the said
Edward K. Cooper shall abide by the conditions and requirements imposed by the act of Congress aforesaid.
"In witness whereof I, Lewis Cass, Secretary of State of
the United States of America, have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the Department of State to be affixed at
Washington this eighth day of December, 1859.

[SEA.]

"4LEwis Oss."

The United States further proved that on September 14,
1889, the Island of Navassa was in the possession of the
Navassa Phosphate Company, incorporated by the State of
New York, and which held the island as assignee of Duncan
and Cooper, mentioned in the foregoing papers; that the persons then "on the island consisted of 137 colored laborers of
said company, and 11 white officers or superintendents, all
residents of the United States, appointed by the company,
the laborers, including the defendant, being employed in

JONTES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

digging the phosphate or guano and transporting by railroad
propelled by man power and handling the phosphate or guano
found on the island and putting it on shipboard, which digging
and mining is carried on by digging and blasting with dynamite and working with picks and other iron tools, and which
phosphate or guano so mined is the article called Navassa
phosphate in the market, and is the only substance on the
island which is dug, mined, worked, transported or sold, the
said laborers being shipped at Baltimore under shipping articles," a copy of which is in the margin 1; that on that day
I Navassa

Phosphate Company, 20 & 22 South Street, Baltimore.

This agreement, made at Baltimore the 12th day of January, 1889, by
and between the Navassa Phosphate Company, of the first part, and the
undersigned laborers of the United States, of the second part, as follows:
Said laborers agree to proceed, under the orders and instructions of said
Navassa Phosphate Company, or its agents, on board such vessel as shall
be provided for the purpose, to Navassa Island, for the business of assisting in loading of vessels with cargo, either by working on shore or in boats;
and for this purpose the parties of the second part hereby covenant and
agree to devote their whole time and services in such labor as they may be
directed to do by said Navassa Phosphate Company or its agents, and for
as many months as the said Navassa Phosphate Company may desire, not
exceeding in all fifteen months from the time of arriving at Navassa Island,
until discharged therefrom, at which time their wages are to commence and
cease. And the said Navassa Phosphate Company agrees on its part to pay
said undersigned the monthly wages set opposite their respective names,
and to furnish a free passage to and from said island of Navassa, and further to find said undersigned laborers in the usual provisions furnished to
such laborers, free of all expense to the parties of the second part.
Payment of wages to be made on the return of the parties of second part
to Baltimore. And should they fail to obey the orders and instructions of
said Navassa Phosphate Company, or its agents, or refuse at any time to
labor, they shall forfeit allclaim for wages and compensation which may be
due them.
If said Navassa Phosphate Company fails to comply with this agreement
on its part, it shall forfeit the sum of twenty dollars, in addition to full
monthly wages and free passage, to the parties of the second part to this
contract. The parties of the second part further agree, in case of sickness
or lost time, to pay the said Navassa Phosphate Company fifty cents per
day board, and said Navassa Phosphate Company not to be liable for any
wages or compensation for time lost by the parties of the second part by
sickness or otherwise.
The parties of the second part agree, upon signing the contract, to obey

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

a riot took place there, in which a large number of laborers
was engaged against the officers, and the defendant killed
Thomas N. Foster, one of the officers, under circumstances
which the jury found amounted to murder, as charged in the
indictment; and that afterwards the defendant was first
brought into the District of Maryland, as therein charged.
Evidence offered by the defendant that on April 16, 1889,
and abide by all the rules, regulations and laws that may now be in operation or hereafter put in force on the island of Navassa, West Indies, for
the better protection of life and property, and that may be deemed necessary for police protection and discipline of the island; and release said
Navassa Phosphate Company from any and all liability for any injury arising from accident, or from any acts of any officer or employ6 on the island
of Navassa.
It is further understood and agreed to by the parties of the second part
that, in case they are not competent to perform the duties as herein stated,
they to pay their passage back to the United States, and the party of the
first part not to be liable for any wages whatsoever. It is also understood
that fifty cents per month shall be deducted from the wages of the parties
of the second part for medicines and medical attention.
NAVASSA PHOSPHATE Co:%rPANY,

Per JoHx H. HAS.ELL, for the Company.
In consideration to the foregoing, and the advance wages set opposite
our names, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, we have signed
this contract, in duplicate, as witness our hands:
Signatures.

No. 14. Henry Jones ...

0 Monthly
wages. Advance
paid.

$8.00

$10.00

Witness and
to
signature
payment.

4-1

Age.

Place of Birth.

22 Baltimore.

We hereby certify that we, the undersigned, were present on board the
brig Romance, in the harbor of Baltimore, Md., when the above-named men
acknowledged that they had signed the above contract, and that they were
willing to go to Navassa Island, W. I., and obey all orders, rules and regulations; that the advance set opposite their respective names was correct,
and that they had received the money.
CHARLES BROWN, Master.
FREDERIcK ABBOTT, Mate.
Baltimore, January 12th, 1889.
JonN W. PRFD, Shipper.

JONES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

a foreign vessel was loading at Navassa with a cargo of this
phosphate of lime, intended for the use of persons other than
citizens or residents of the United States, and finished such
loading a few days afterwards, was excluded by the court as
immaterial; and the defendant excepted to its exclusion.
After verdict, the defendant moved in arrest of judgment,
for various reasons, the only one of which, relied on in argument, was this: "Because the act of August 18, 1856, c. 164,
now codified with amendments as Title 712 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, is unconstitutional and void,
and the court was without jurisdiction to try the defendant
under the indictment found against him."
The motion was overruled, and the defendant sentenced to
death; and he sued out this writ of error under the act of
February 6, 1889, c. 113, § 6. 25 Stat. 656.
The provisions of the act of Congress of August 18, 1856, c.
164, entitled "An Act to authorize Protection to be given to
Citizens of the United States who may discover Deposits of
Guano," (11 Stat. 119,) since reenacted in Title 72, §§ 55705578, of the Revised Statutes, are as follows:
By section 1, when any citizen of the United States shall
"discover a deposit of guano on any island, rock or key, not
within the lawful jurisdiction of any other governmbnt, and
not occupied by the citizens of any other government, and
shall take peaceable possession thereof, and occupy the same,
said island, rock or key may, at the discretion of the President
of the United States, be considered as appertaining to the
United States;" provided that the discoverer, as soon as practicable, shall give notice, on oath, to the State Department of
the United States, of such discovery, occupation and possession, describing. the island, its latitude and longitude, and
showing that such possession was taken in the name of the
United States, and shall furnish to the State Department satisfactory evidence that the island was not, at the time of his
discovery, possession or occupation, in the possession or occupation of any other government or its citizens. All the facts
and conditions thus specified must appear to the satisfaction
of the President, in order to enable him to exercise the discreVOL. cxxxvna-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tionary power conferred upon him of determining that the
island shall be considered as appertaining to the United
States.
When the President determines that the island shall be
considered as appertaining to the United States, and not
before, section 2 of the statute authorizes him to allow the
discoverer or his assigns the exclusive right, subject to be
terminated by Congress at any time, of occupying the island
for the purpose of obtaining and selling the guano, first giving
bond, with such penalties and securities as may be required by
the President, "to deliver the said guano to citizens of the
United States, for the purpose of being used therein, and to
none others," "and to provide all necessary facilities for that
purpose within a time to be fixed in said bond." And, by the
same section, any breach of tlhe conditions of the bond "shall
be taken and deemed a forfeiture of all rights accruing under
and by virtue of this act."
The scope and effect of the first two sections, as above
stated, clearly appear on the face of the act, and were pointed
out in opinions given by Attorney General Black to the Secretary of State on June 2, 1857, and July 12, 1859. 9 Opinions of Attorneys General, 30, 364. See also a letter of the
Secreta'y of State of July 1, 1857, in 3 Wharton's International
Law Digest, § 311.
The other sections of the act manifestly apply only to
islands which the President has determined shall be considered
as appertaining to the United States.
By section 3, "the introduction of guano from such islands,
rocks or keys shall be regulated as in the coasting trade
between different ports of the United States, and the same
laws shall govern the vessels concerned therei.n." By section
4,"nothing in this act contained shall be construed obligatory
on the United States to retain possession of the islands, rocks
or keys as aforesaid, after the guano shall have been removed
from the same." And by section 5, "the President of the
United States is herebyauthorized, at his discretion, to employ
the land and naval forces of the United States to protect the
rights of the said discoverer or discoverers, or their assigns, as
aforesaid."

JONES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

By section 6 of the same act, reinacted in section 5576 of
the Revised Statutes, all acts done, dnd offences or crimes
committed, on any such island, rock or key, by persons who
may land thereon, or in the waters adjacent thereto, "shall be
held and deemed to have been done or committed on the high
seas, on board a merchant ship or vessel belonging to the
United States, and be punished according to the laws of the
United States relating to such ships or vessels and offences on
the high seas; which laws, for the purposes aforesaid, are
hereby extended to and over such islands, rocks or keys."
This section does not (as argued for the defendant) assume
to extend the admiralty jurisdiction over land; but, in the
exercise of the power of the United States to preserve peace
and punish crime in all regions over which they exercise jurisdiction, it unequivocally extends the provisions of the statutes
of the United States for the punishment of offences committed
upon the high seas to like offences committed upon guano
islands which have been determined by the President to
appertain to the United States. In either case, the crime, the
punishment and the procedure are statutory, the whole criminal jurisdiction of the courts of the United States being
derived from acts of Congress. United States v. Hudson, 7
Cranch, 32; United States v. Britton, 108 U. S.199, 206.
By the Constitution of the United States, while a crime
committed within any State must be tried in that State and
in a district previously ascertained by law, yet a crime not
committed within any State of the Union may be tried at such
place as Congress may by law have directed. Constitution,
art. 3, § 2; Amendments, art. 6; United States v. Dawso?, 15
How. 467, 488. Congress has directed that "the trial of all
offences committed upon the high seas or elsewhere, out of the
jurisdiction of any particular State or district, shall be in the
district where the offender is found, or into which he is first
brought." Rev. Stat. § 30. And Congress has awarded the
punishment of death to the crime of murder, whether committed upon the high seas or other tide waters out of the
jurisdiction of any particular State, or "within any fort,
arsenal, dock-yard, magazine or in any other place or district of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

country under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States."
Rev. Stat. § 5339. Both these acts of Congress clearly include
murder committed on any land within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States and not within any judicial district, as well as murder committed on the high seas. E2xarte
Bollman, 4 Cranch, 75, 136; UnitedStates v. Bevans, 3 Wheat.
336, 390, 391; United States v. Auwo, 19 Wall. 486.
By the law of nations, recognized by all civilized States,
dominion of new territory may be acquired by discovery and
occupation, as well as by cession or conquest; and when citizens or subjects of one nation, in its name, and by its authority or with its assent, take and hold actual, continuous and
useful possession, (although only for the purpose of carrying
on a particular business, such as catching and curing fish, or
working mines,) of territory unoccupied by any other government or its citizens, the nation to which they belong may
exerbise such jurisdiction and for such period as it sees fit over
territory so acquired. This principle affords ample warrant
for the legislation of Congress concerning guano islands.
Vattel, lib. 1, c. 18; Wheaton on International Law (8th ed.)
§§ 161, 165, 176, note 104; flalleck on International Law,
c. 6, §§ 7, 15 ; 1 Phillimore on International Law (3d ed.) §§ 227,
229, 230, 232, 242; 1 Calvo Droit International (4th ed.)
§§ 266, 277, 300; TFhitom v. Albany Ins. Co., 109 M ass. 24, 31.
Who is the sovereign, de jure or de facto, of a territory is
not a judicial, but a political question, the determination of
which by the legislative and executive departments of any
government conclusively binds the judges, as well as all other
officers, citizens and subjects of that government. This principle has always been upheld by this court, and has been
affirmed under a great variety of circumstances. Gelston v.
Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 246, 324; United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat.
610; The Divina Pastora,4 Wheat. 52; Foster v. N5eilsom, 2
Pet. 253, 307, 309 ; Keane v. lcDonough, 8 Pet. 308 ; Garcia
v. -ee, 12 Pet. 511, 520; Williams v. Sufolk Ins. Co., 13 Pet.
415 ; United States v. Y.orba, 1 Wall. 412, 423; United States
v. Lynde, 11 Wall. 632, 638. It is equally well settled in
England. The Pelican,Edw. Adm. appx. D; Taylor v. Bar-

JONES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

clay, 2 Sim. 213; Emperor of Austria v. Day, 3 DeG., F. & J.
217, 221, 233; Republic of Peru v. Peruvian Guano Co., 36
Ch. D. 489, 497; Republic of Peru v. Dreyfus, 38 Ch. D.
348, 356, 359.
In Williams v. Suffolk ins. Co., in an action on a policy of
insurance, the following question arose in the Circuit Court,
and was brought up by a certificate of division of opinion
between the judges thereof:
"Whether, inasmuch as the American government has
insisted and does still insist, through its regular executive
authority, that the Falkland Islands do not constitute any
part of the dominions within the sovereignty of the government of Buenos Ayres, and that the seal fishery at those
islands is a trade free and lawful to the citizens of the United
States, and beyond the competency of the Buenos Ayrean government to regulate, prohibit or punish; it is competent for
the Circuit Court in this cause to inquire into and ascertain by
other evidence the title of said government of Buenos Ayres
to the sovereignty of the said Falkland Islands, and, if such
evidence satisfies the court, to decide against the doctrines and
claims set up and supported by the American government on
this subject; or whether the action of the American government on this subject is binding and conclusive on this court as
to whom the sovereignty of those islands belongs." 13 Pet. 417.
This court held that the action of the executive department,
on the question to whom the sovereignty of those islands
belonged, was binding and conclusive upon the courts of the
United States, saying: "Can there be any doubt that when
the executive branch of the g6vernment, which is charged
with our foreign relations, shall in its correspondence with a,
foreign nation assume a fact in regard to the sovereignty of
any island or country, it is conclusive on the judicial department? And in this view it is not material to inquire, nor is it
the province of the court to determine, whether the executive
be right or wrong. It is enough to know, that in the exercise
of his constitutional functions he has decided the question.
Having done this under the responsibilities which belong to
him, it is obligatory on the people and government of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890
Opinion of the Court.

Union." "In the present case, as the executive in his message,
and in his correspondence with the government of Buenos
Ayres, has denied the jurisdiction which it has assumed to
exercise over the Falkland Islands, the fact must be taken and
acted on by this court as thus asserted and maintained." 13
Pet. 420.
All courts of justice are bound to take judicial notice of the
territorial extent of the jurisdiction exercised by the government whose laws they administer, or of its recognition or
denial of the sovereignty of a foreign power, as appearing
from the public acts of the legislature and executive, although
those acts are not formally put in evidence, nor in accord with
the pleadings. United States v. Reynes, 9 How. 127; Ifennett
v. 'Chambers, 14 How. 38; Hoyt v. Russell, 117 U. S. 401,
404; Coffee v. Grover, 123 U. S. 1; State v. Dunwell, 3 R. 1.
127; State v. Wagner, 61 Maine, 178; Taylor v. Barlay,and
-Emperorof Austria v. Day, above cited; 1 Greenl. Ev. § 6.
In United States v. Reynes, upon the question whether a
Spanish grant of land in Louisiana was protected, either by
the treaty of retrocession from Spain to France, or by the
treaty of Paris, by which the Territory of Louisiana was ceded
to the United States, this court held: "The treaties above
mentioned, the public acts and proclamations of the Spanish
and French governments, and those of their publicly recognized agents, in carrying into effect those treaties, tbough not
made exhibits in this cause, are historical and notorious facts,
of which the court can take regular judicial notice, and reference to which is implied in the investigation before us." 9
How. 14:7, 148.
In Kennett v. Chambers, a bill to compel specific performance of a contract made in the United States in September,
1836, by which a general in the Texan Army agreed to convey lands in Texas, in consideration of money paid him to aid
in raising and equipping troops against Mexico, was dismissed
on demurrer, because the independence of Texas, though previously declared by that State, had not then been acknowledged by the government of the United States; and the court
established this conclusion by referring to messages of the

JONES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

President of the United States to the Senate, a letter from the
President to the Governor of Tennessee, and a note from the
Secretary of State to the Mexican Minister, none of which
were stated in the record before the court. 14 Row. 47, 48.
So in coffee v. Grover, upon writ of error to the Supreme
Court of Florida, in a case involving a title-to land, claimed
under conflicting grants from the State of Florida and the
State of Georgia, and depending upon a disputed boundary
between those States, this court ascertained the true boundary
by consulting public documents, some of which had not been
given in evidence at the trial, nor referred to in the opinion of
the court below. 123 U. S.11 & seq.
In Taylor v. Barclay, a bill in equity, based on an agreement which it alleged had been made in 1825 by agents of
"the government of the Federal Republic of Central America,
which was a sovereign and independent State, recognized and
treated as such by His Majesty the King of these Realms,"
was dismissed on demurrer by Vice-Chancellor Shadwell, who
said: "I have had communication with the Foreign Office,
and I am authorized to state that the Federal Republic of
Central America has not been recognized as an independent
government by the government of this country." "Inasmuch
as I conceive it is the duty of the judge in every court to take
notice of public matters which affect the government of this
country, I conceive that, notwithstanding there is this averment in the bill, I am bound to take the fact as it really exists,
not as it is averred to be." " Nothing is taken to be true,
except that which is properly pleaded; and I am of opinion
that, when you plead that which is historically false, and
which the judges are bound to take notice of as being false, It
cannot be said you have properly pleaded, merely because it is
averred, in plain terms; and that I must take it just as if
there was no such averment on the record." 2 Sim. 220, 221,
223.
That case is in harmony with decisions made in the time of
Lord Coke, and in which he took part, that against an allegation of a public act of Parliament, of which the judges ought
to take notice, the other party cannot plead qul tiel record,

OCTOBER TERMI,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

but, if the act be misrecited, ought to demur in law upon it.
The Princes Case, 8 Rep. 14a, 28a; lTrooley's Case, Godb. 178.
In the ascertainment of any facts of which they are bound
to take judicial notice, as in the decision of matters of law
which it is their office to know, the judges may refresh their
memory and inform their conscience from such sources as they
deem most trustworthy. Gresley Eq. Ev. pt. 3, c. 1; Fremont v. United States, 17 How. 542, 557; Brown v. Piper,91
U. S. 37, 42; State v. T-agner, 61 Maine, 178. Upon the
question of the existence of a public statute, or of the date
when it took effect, they may consult the original roll or other
official records. Spring v. Eve, 2 Mod. 240; 1 Hale's Hist.
Com. Law (5th ed.) 19-21; Gardnerv. Collector, 6 Wall. 419;
South Ottawa v. Perkins, 94 U. S. 260, 267-269, 277; Post v.
Supervisors, 105 U. S. 667. As to international affairs, such
as the recognition of a foreign government, or of the diplomatic character of a person claiming to be its representative,
they may inquire of the Foreign Office or the Department of
Taylor v. Barclay, above quoted; Tne Charkieh,
State.
L. R. 4 Ad. & Ec. 59, 74, 86; Eix parte Hitz, 111 U. S. 766;
ITn re Baiz, 135 U. S. 403.
In the case at bar, the indictment alleges that the Island of
Navassa, on which the murder is charged to have been committed, was at the time under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, and out of the jurisdiction of any
particular State or district of the United States, and recognized and considered by the United States as containing a
deposit of guano within the meaning and terms of the laws of
the United States relating to such islands, and recognized and
considered by the United States as appertaining to the United
States and in the possession of the United States under those
laws.
These allegations, indeed, if inconsistent with facts of which
the court is bound to take judicial notice, could not be treated
as conclusively supporting the verdict and judgment. But,
on full consideration of the matter, we are of opinion that
those facts are quite in accord with the allegations of the
indictment.

JONES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The power, conferred on the President of the United States
by section 1 of the act of Congress of 1856, to determine that
a guano island shall be considered as appertaining to the
United States, being a strictly executive power, affecting foreign relations, and the manner in which his determination
shall be made known not having been prescribed by statute,
there can be no doubt that it may be declared through the
Department of State, whose acts in this regard are in legal
contemplation the acts of the President. TWolsey v. Chapman,
101 U. S. 755, 770; Runkle v. United States, 122 U. S. 543,
557; 11 Opinions of Attorneys General, 397, 399.
On referring to the memorial sworn to by Peter Duncan on
November 18, 1857, and to the Proclamation of the Secretary
of State of December 8, 1859, -(copies of both of which, verified by the present Secretary of State, were given in evidence
at the trial of this case,) and to other papers of intermediate
dates, filed in the Department of State, communicated by the
President to the Senate on April 12, 1860, and printed by
order of the Senate in Executive Document No. 37 of the first
session of the Thirty-sixth Congress, the following facts appear
in regard to the Island of Kavassa:
Duncan's memorial on oath was presented to the Secretary
of State on December 3, 1857. In that memorial, Duncan
represented that on July 1, 1857, he discovered a deposit of
guano on an island called Kavassa, not within the lawful jurisdiction of any other government, and not occupied by the
citizens of any other government; described the island, its
latitude and longitude, and the deposit of guano thereon;
and further represented that on September 19, 1857, he took
peaceable possession of and occupied the island in the name of
the United States and continued so to occupy it, and was prepared to furnish satisfactory evidence thereof, and of all other
requisites and facts prescribed by the act of Congress of 1856;
and prayed that the island "may be considered and declared
as appertaining to the United States, and that he, the said
claimant, may have the rights and advantages allowed and
secured to him as such discoverer, which are by the act of
Congress aforesaid provided."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

On April 23, 1858, Cooper, the assignee of Duncan, addressed a letter to the Secretary of State, requesting protection
of his vessels lying and men working at the Island of Navassa
against an apprehended interference by a vessel of war of the
Haytian government.
On April 24, 1858, Cooper presented to the Secretary of
State an affidavit, sworn to March 15, 1858, before the United
States consul at Kingston in the Island of Jamaica, of John
B. Lewis, that, as Duncan's agent, he had been since September 18, 1857, "in peaceable possession of the said island, taking and shipping guano therefrom, and that said island was
not, when he so took possession thereof, in the possession or
occupation of any other government or its citizens, and that
the possession of said Duncan through said Lewis and the
said Duncan's other agents has not been in any wise interrupted or sought to be interrupted by any person whatsoever."
In June, 1858, Cooper, by letters addressed to the President
and to the Secretary of State, informed them that the Haytian
government, upon the pretence that the island of Navassa was
a dependency of St. Domingo, had sent two vessels of war
there, and forcibly interrupted and prohibited the digging of
guano by Cooper's men; and solicited the interposition of the
United States for the protection of his interests.
On July 7, 1858, the Secretary of State addressed a letter
to the Socretary of the Navy, in which, after stating the substance of Duncan's memorial and of Cooper's application, he
said: "The President being of the opinion that any claim, of
the Haytian government to prevent citizens of the United
States from removing guano from the Island of Navassa is
unfounded, and that in this case it is advisable to exercise the
authority vested in him by the fifth section of the act of Congress, approved August 18, 1856, entitled ' An act to authorize
protection to be given to citizens of the United States who
may discover deposits of guano,' directs that you will cause a
competent force to repair to that island, and will order the
officer in command thereof to protect citizens of the United
States in removing guano therefrom against any interference
from authorities of the government of Hayti, or of any other

JONES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

government. If any persons in the employment of that government should be found upon the island, an offer may be
made to land them at Port au Prince, or at any other point
which they may designate, and their superiors may be informed of the occasion for this proceeding, and of the determination of this government not to allow the removal of
guano from that island by citizens of the United States to be
interfered with in any manner by the citizens or authorities of
iayti, or by persons claiming to act under them. It is hoped
that the President's object may, by firmness and discretion,
be accomplished, not only without any effusion of blood, but
without giving, reasonable cause for offence in any quarter."
The Secretary of State, on July 8, sent to Cooper a copy of
this letter; on July 12, demanded of Cooper a bond as required
by the act of 1856, and on September 10, 1858, accepted such
a bond; and on September 16 sent him a copy of dispatches
received by the Navy Department from the commander of
the vessel ordered to Navassa, including letters written by
him at Port au Prince on August 16, 1858, to the Haytian
Minister of Foreign Relations, to the United States consul at
that port, and to Cooper's agent on the Island of Navassa,
informing each of them of the object of his mission.
In the letter to the Haytian Minister of Foreign Relations,
the commander said: "I am authorized to say to you that the
President of the United States is of opinion that, in this case,
it is advisable to exercise the authority vested in him by the
fifth section of this act, and I am directed by him to repair to
that island to protect our citizens in removing guano therefrom against any interference from the authorities of any
government whatever; which he hopes I may be able to do
without giving reasonable cause of offence in any quarter."
On November 13, 1858, Mr. B. C. Clark, the commercial
agent of Hayti at Boston, in behalf of the Haytian government, (intercourse between that government and the United
States being at that time conducted through consuls or commercial agents only,') addressed to the Secretary of State a
1 Acts of August 18, 1856, c. 127, 11 Stat. 52, 54; June 5, 1862, c. 9G, and
July 11, 1862, c. 143, § 1, 12 Stat. 421, 534.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

letter in relation to the occupancy of the Island of Navassa
by citizens of the United States, in which he said: "The territory over which Hayti now claims sovereignty was once the
property of Spain, who, in the exercise of an undisputed right,
ceded said territory to France. France, in 1825, through her
chief, Charles X, acknowledged the independence of Hayti,
and thereby vested her with a perfect title to the 'French
part' (popularly termed) and all its dependencies, among
which dependencies the islands of Tortugas, La Vache, Cayemete, Navassa and Gonaive Island are declared to be. The
government of Hayti, although frequently importuned, has
never ceded, sold or leased either of these dependencies to any
nation, company or individual. I therefore most respectfully
ask, in behalf of the government of Hayti, the attention of
the government .of the United States to the infringement on
the rights of Hayti, involved in the unauthorized occupancy
of Navassa Island by citizens of the United States."
On November 17, 1858, the Assistant Secretary of State
replied to Mr. Clark, saying: "I am directed to inform you
that a citizen of the United States having exhibited to this
department proofs which were deemed sufficient that that
island was derelict and abandoned, with guano of good quality, and having applied for the protection of this government
in removing the guano therefrom, pursuant to the act of Congress of the 18th of August, 1856, a copy of which is inclosed,
that application has been granted. You will notice, however,
that the act does not make it obligatory upon the government
to retain permanent possession of the island."
On December 8, 1859, the Secretary of State issued a proclamation, addressed "to all to whom these presents shall
come," declaring that Duncan, a citizen of the United States,
had filed in the Department of State the required notice of
the discovery of guano on, and of the occupation of, the
Island of Navassa, in the name of the United States; and
that Cooper, his assignee, also a citizen of the United States,
had entered into sufficient bonds under and according to the
act of Congress of August 18, "1856; and therefore that
Cooper was "entitled, in respect to the guano on the said

JONES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

island, to all the privileges and advantages intended by that
act to be secured to citizens of the United States who iay
have discovered deposits of guano," provided that he should
abide by the conditions and requirements of that act.
The opinion submitted by Attorney General Black to the
Secretary of State on December 14, 1859, (9 Opinions of
Attorneys General, 406,) to the effect that the President has
no right under the law to annex a guano island to the United
States, or to put American citizens in possession of it, while a
diplomatic question as to the jurisdiction over it is pending
between the United States and a foreign nation, cannot influence our decision in this case, for several reasons.. In the first
place, that opinion was given six days after the proclamation
regarding the Island of Kavassa, and concerned only a distinct island, Cayo Verde, claimed by the BriLish government as
within its jurisdiction and belonging to the Bahamas. In the
next place, no diplomatic question was then pending as to
the jurisdiction over the Island of Navassa; on the contrary,
the President had repeatedly declared that the claim of Hayti
was unfounded. Lastly, the office of the Attorney General
was to advise the President what he ought to do; the duty of
the judiciary is to decide in accordance with what the President, in the exercise of a discretionary power confided to him
by the Constitution and laws, has actually done. As was
adjudged, under like circumstances, in Williams v. Suffolk
-Ins. Co., 13 Pet. 415, 420, before quoted, if the executive, in
his correspondence with the government of iHayti, has denied
the jurisdiction which it claimed over the Island of Navassa,
the fact must be taken and acted on by this court as thus
asserted and maintained; it is not material to inquire, nor is it
the province of the court to determine, whether the executive
be right or wrong; it is enough to know that in the exercise
of his constitutional functions he has decided the question.
The documents from the State Department, above mentioned, show the following action of the President, through
the Secretary of State, with regard to the Island of Navassa:
In the order of July ', 1858, sending out an armed vessel
under section 5 of the act of 1856 to protect Cooper in removing

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the guano, the President unequivocally declared his "opinion
that any claim of the Haytian government to prevent citizens
of the United States from removing guano from the island of

Navassa is unfounded," and "the determination of th~s government not to allow the removal of guano from that island by
citizens of the United States to be interfered with in any manner by the citizens or authorities of Hayti."
In the response of November 17, 1858, to the letter of the
Haytian government, through its commercial agent, claiming
the Island of Navassa as a dependency of Hlayti, the President
declared that a citizen of the United States had exhibited
proofs which were deemed sufficient that "that island was
derelict and abandoned, with guano of good quality;" and
that his application for the protection of the government in
removing the guano therefrom, pursuant to the act of Congress of 1856, had been granted. The reference, at the close
of this response, to the provision in section 4 of that act,
reserving the right of the United States to discontinue its possession of the island after, by the removal of the guano, it
shall have ceased to be of any value, has, to say the least, no
tendency to show that the United States had not for the time
being assumed dominion over the island.
In the proclamation of December 8, 1859, after reciting the
discovery and occupation of the island by Duncan, and the
giving of a bond by his assignee Cooper, pursuant to the act
of 1856, Cooper was declared to be "entitled, in respect to
the guano on the said island, to all the privileges and advantages intended by that act to be secured to citizens of the
United States who may have discovered deposits of guano."
Although this proclamation does not in terms follow the first
clause of the prayer of Duncan's memorial, "that said key or
island of Navassa may be considered and declared as appertaining to the United States," the declaration of the President,
in accordance with the conclusion of that prayer, that Cooper,
as Duncan's assignee, was entitled, in respect to the guano
upon that island, to the privileges and advantages secured by
the act of Congress to citizens of the United States discovering
deposits of guano, is equivalent to a declaration that the Pres-

JONES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ident considered the island as appertaining to the United
States.
Seeing that the act of Congress had not authorized any
rights or privileges to be allowed to the discoverer of a guano
island, or any bond to be required of him, or any protection
to be given to him, by the United States, unless the President
was of opinion that the island should be considered as appertaining to the United States, the terms of the order of the
President of July 7, 1858, of his response of November 17,
1858, to the protest of the official representative of IHayti, and
of his proclamation of December 8, 1859, clearly show, or
necessarily imply, that the President, exercising the discretionary power conferred upon him by the Constitution and
laws, was satisfied that the Island of Kavassa was not within
the jurisdiction of Hayti, or of any foreign government, and
that it should be considered as appertaining to the United
States.
But the case does not rest here. The subsequent action of
the President, through the appropriate departments, has put
the matter beyond all question.
In a circular of the Treasury Department of February :12,
1869, "relative to the Guano Islands appertaining to the
United States," and addressed "to collectors of customs," the
Secretary of the Treasury said: "You will find hereto annexed
a corrected list of the Guano Islands, bonded under the act of
August 18, 1856, as appears by the bonds and papers, transmitted from the Department of State, now on file in the office
of the First Comptroller of the Treasury. The several islands
named and described in said list having been duly bonded, and
considered by the President of the United States 'as appertaining to the United States,' in manner and form prescribed
by said act, and, as a consequence thereof, brought under the
laws regulating the coasting trade, your attention is directed
to the same with a view to the proper enforcement of the laws
regulating intercourse with said islands." The list, annexed
to that circular, of "Guano Islands pertaining to the United
States and bonded under the act'of August 18, 1856," included
the Island of Navassa.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Finally, by letters from the Secretary of State to the Haytian minister on December 31, 1872, and on June 10, 1873,
(mentioned, under mistaken dates, in 3 Wharton's International
Law Digest, § 312, and copies of which have been obtained
from the Department of State,) it appears that, upon the Haytian government renewing its claim to the Island of Navassa,
the United States utterly and finally denied the validity of the
claim, and reasserted and maintained their exclusive jurisdiction of that island, by reason of its discovery and occupation by
Duncan and Cooper, and under the act of Congress of 1856.
The only other point presented by the record and argued in
behalf of the defendant is his exception to the exclusion of
evidence that in April, 1889, a foreign vessel was loaded at
Navassa with guano intended for the use of persons other
than citizens or residents of the United States. It was argued
that this evidence was admissible, as showing a breach of condition of Cooper's bond, and a consequent forfeiture of his
rights, under the provision of section 2 of the act of 1856,
reenacted in Rev. Stat. § 5574. It does not distinctly appear
whether such breach took place before or after April 18, 1889.
If it took place before, it was within the period of five years,
during which the operation of that provision of the statute
was suspended by the act of April 18, 1884, c. 24. 23 Stat. 11.
But, whenever the breach took place, it affected the private
rights only of the delinquent, and did not impair the dominion
of the United States or the jurisdiction of their courts.
For the reasons above stated, our conclusion is that the
Guano Islands Act of August 18, 1856, c. 164, reenacted in
Title 72 of the Revised Statutes, is constitutional and valid;
that the Island of Kavassa must be considered as appertaining
to the United States; that the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Maryland had jurisdiction to try
this indictment; and that there is no error in the proceedings.
Judgment affirmed.
No. 1142, EDWAR SMITH v. UNITED STATES, and No. 1144,
KEY V. UNITED STATES, argued and decided at the

GEORGE S.

same time, are substantially similar, and in those cases also
The judgments are affirmed.

