OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

to his estate, according to its nature as realty or personalty,
might be a question of some difficulty. But it is impossible
to find in this act any manifestation of an intention of Congress that the interest of the discoverer should be subject to
dower, or even that it should be considered as real estate
rather than as personal property.
.Deeree affirmed.

EGAN v. CLASBEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
hfo. 117. Submitted December 1, 1890.-Decided January 19, 1891.

The pleadings and findings in this case fully sustain the judgment of the
court below, and it is therefore affirmed.

Tmis was an action at law, brought in one of the Territorial
Courts of Utah Territory, by Edward D. Egan against James
T. Clasbey, to recover the value of 1475 shares of stock of the
Bannock Gold and Silver Mining Company, a corporation
organized under the laws of that Territory, which, it was
alleged, had been received by the defendant, in excess of the
number to which he was entitled, under the following agreement:
SALT LAKE C=-, 11th Sept., 1885.
"This agreement, entered into on this the eleventh day of
September, 1885, by and between Ed. D. Egan, party of the
first part, and James T. Clasbey, party of the second part, and
both of Salt Lake City and County, Utah Territory:
"That said Ed. D. Egan, party of the first part, does hereby
agree to deliver to James T. Clasbey, party of the second part,
stock in the mining claim at present known as Martin's Horn
silver mine, and situated near Lava Beds, Idaho Territory.
"The amount of said stock to be of the value of five thousand ($5000) dollars, at its original cost; and it is further
agreed that if said stock is not issued the said Ed. D. Egan,
party of the first part, does agree to deliver to said James T.

EGAN v. OLASBEY.
Statement of the Case.

Olasbey, party of the second part, a deed for a portion of the
aforesaid mining property, said deed to be equivalent to stock
of the amount of five thousand (85000) dollars.
"E.D. EGAN.
"J.

"Witness : I. J. Lovn.
"$5000.

SALT LAXE Crry,

T. CLASBEY.

M1tA Sept., 1885.

"Received of James T. Clasbev the sum of five thousand
($5000) dollars.
"This sum is in payment for the stock or deed mentioned
in an agreement signed by me this day.
E. D. EGAN."
The complaint alleged that on the 15th of September, 1885,
said corporation was formed, as contemplated, between the
owners of the other three-fourths of said mine, and the plaintiff and defendant as the owners of the remaining one-fourth;,
that the amount of the capital' of said corporation was $10,000,000, divided into 100,000 shares of the face or par value
of $100 each, making one-fourth interest in said mining property represent 25,000 shares; that the original cost of said
stock was sixty-two and one-half cents per share, being $62,500 in the aggregate for such entire stock; that plaintiff was
entitled under said agreement to 17,000 shares of such stock,
and the defendant to 8000 shares thereof, being together onefourth of the entire stock, and it being agreed by the two parties that such was the cost and proper division between them
of such stock; but that in the articles of incorporation, by a
mistake and inadvertence on the part of the draftsman of the
instrument, 15,000 shares were erroneously set down as subscribed by plaintiff Egan and 10,000 shares by defendant
Clasbey; that after said instrument was read to plaintiff he
refused to sign the same as written on account of the mistake
therein, but upon the distinct agreement and understanding
between defendant and plaintiff that the mistake should be
corrected, as between themselves, so that plaintiff should receive 17,000 and defendant only 8000 shares of stock, the
plaintiff, in consideration of the defendant's promise to turn

OCTOBEIR TERM-, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

over to him 2000 shares of the 10,000 so allotted to him, signed
said articles, and the stock was issued according to the terms
of the articles of incorporation as executed; and that afterwards defendant did turn over to plaintiff 525 shares of said
excess, leaving a balance of 1475 shares, which the defendant
retained and refused to turn over, and still refuses, although
the plaintiff has demanded the same of him.
The plaintiff further averred the value of the stock to be
$3 per share at the date of the suit, and asked judgment
against the defendant for $4425, "with interest from the date
hereof at the rate of ten per cent per annum."
The defendant denied on his part the making of any agreement with the plaintiff other than that first set forth in the
complaint. He further denied that the original cost of said
mining property, or of its equivalent, the capitalized stock,
was $62,500, and averred that it was only $50,000. He denied
that he ever agreed that such was the cost of said stock, and
that the proper division thereof was as stated in the complaint.
He denied that there was any mistake in drafting said articles
of incorporation, or that there was any agreement between
himself and plaintiff to transfer any portion of the stock
allotted to him in said articles to plaintiff, and averred that at
the time of making said contract plaintiff held an option to
purchase one-fourth of said mining property, but that, being
without means to perfect on his part the purchase under said
option, plaintiff applied to defendant to contribute $5000 to
the purchase thereof, with the understanding that the defendant should share in such purchase in such proportion as the
$5000 should bear to the cost of such purchase, and thereupon
he paid plaintiff the $5000, and said contract of September 11,
1885, was executed; that thereupon the plaintiff perfected
said purchase, and at once thereafter said corporation was
formed, but that defendant did not then know the actual cost
of said property, or of such stock, and no agreement as to any
definite number of shares had been made between them; that
afterwards, and before defendant was aware of the cost of said
property or of such stock, he delivered to the plaintiff 525
shares of said stock, not as a conceded right or in settlement

IGAN v. CLASBEY.
Statement of the Case.

of any claim of plaintiff, but at plaintiff's request, in order to
enable him to fulfil contracts of sale made by him; that after
learning that the actual original cost of said property and stock
was only $50,000, and that he, defendant, under his contract,
was entitled to have 10,000 shares, and that plaintiff was
entitled to 15,000 shares, he demanded of plaintiff 525 shares
of stock, which plaintiff refused, and claimed that the original
cost was sixty-two and one-half cents per share; that the
claim of plaintiff is unjust; that the defendant is entitled to
525 shares, which plaintiff has converted to his own use; that
the stock is worth $3 per share; and he, therefore, prayed
judgment against the plaintiff for the sum of $1575.
A jury having been waived, the case was tried by the court
upon the pleadings and proofs, both oral and documentary.
The following findings of fact and conclusions of law by
the trial court clearly set forth the material facts in the
case:

"1.

The plaintiff and defendant, on the 11th day of September, 1885, entered into the written contract exhibited in the
complaint, whereby plaintiff, in consideration of the sum of
$5000, then delivered to him by the defendant toward the
purchase of one-fourth undivided of the Martin's Horn silver
mine, at Era, Idaho, agreed to deliver to the defendant stock
in such mining claim in amount equal to $5000, at its original
cost; and, further, that if such stock was not issued he would
deliver to defendant a deed to be equivalent to stock of the
amount of $5000.
"2. Plaintiff and others bought an option on said mine,
paying therefor $6000, from one Chambers (such price including $5000 paid by Chambers to Martin, the owner of the mine,
on said option, and $1000 expenses incurred by Chambers),
and on the 12th of September, 1885, paid to Martin $50,000,
the balance of the purchase-money.
"3. On th6 15th of September, 1885, a corporation was
organized by the purchasers and others associated with them
to work said mine, called the Bannock Gold and Silver Mining
Company of Idaho, on a basis of 100,000 shares of capital
stock, one-fourth of which (25,000 shares) were to be allotted
VOL. cxxxvn-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

to plaintiff and defendant, to be divided between them according to their said contract.
"4. Plaintiff contributed one-fourth of the $6000 paid to
Chambers and one-fourth of the $50,000 paid to Martin, using,
with his own money, the said $5000 delivered to him by
defendant.
"5. On the organization of the corporation the mine was
conveyed to it, and plaintiff and four other corporators voluntarily loaned and advanced to the corporation $2000, of which
sum the plaintiff contributed $500.
"6. Soon after the organization of the corporation, by consent and on motion of the plaintiff, the corporation assumed
and paid a debt of $5000 to one McMasters, which had been
incurred by plaintiff and one Thum, the original holders of
said option, and afterward the corporation paid a claim for
labor on the mine pending the option, which claim was estimated at $1500, but the amount actually paid thereon to Martin was $2127, paid by the corporation through plaintiff, its
superintendent. The corporation also, in November, 1885, out
of its net earnings refunded to the contributors the $6000 paid
to Chambers, and the $2000 advanced as aforesaid, of which
the plaintiff received $2000, the portion advanced by him.
The advances and loan thus repaid and debts assumed and
paid by the corporation amount to $14,127, leaving the sum
of $50,000 as the actual outlay by plaintiff and the other purchasers of the mine.
"7. Of the $50,000 so paid by the purchasers the plaintiff
paid one-fourth, or $12,500 (using for that purpose the $5000
delivered to him by defendant).
"8. The actual original cost of the 25,000 shares of stock
was fifty cents per share.
'9. When the corporation was about to be organized the
plaintiff claimed that the cost of stock was 62- cents per
share, and that he was entitled to subscribe for and hold 17,000
shares and the defendant only 8000 shares, but there was no
agreement or settlement between defendant and plaintiff as to
the claim and the matter was left for future adjustment by
plaintiff and defendant.

EGAN v. CLASBEY.
Opinion of the Court.

"10. About the month of December, 1885, defendant, at
request of plaintiff, delivered to plaintiff 500 shares of stock
to enable the latter to fill a sale, and 25 shares which plaintiff
desired to give to another person. This stock was delivered
to plaintiff subject to the adjustment of their stock account.
"11. The parties never agreed upon the cost of the stock.
Plaintiff demanded 1475 shares of stock from defendant, but
defendant refused to comply, and plaintiff brought this action.
After this, and before answering, defendant demanded of
plaintiff the return of the 525 shares delivered as aforesaid,
which was refused by plaintiff.
"12. The value of said stock when the action was brought
and when defendant made his said demand was and is now
three dollars per share.
"As conclusions of law the court doth find:
"1. That the plaintiff was entitled to subscribe for and hold
15,000 shares of said stock, and defendant was entitled to
subscribe for and hold 10,000 shares.
"2. That plaintiff is not entitled to recover in this action,
but the defendant is entitled to judgment against the plaintiff.
"3. That on his counter-claim the defendant is entitled to
recover from the plaintiff the value of 525 shares of said stock,
viz., $1575, together with his costs, to be taxed."
Judgment was accordingly entered in favor of the defendant for the sum of $1575.
That judgment having been
.affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah, the.
present appeal was prosecuted.
-fr., .L. Rawlins for appellant.
.i&. Samuel A. -Aei'rittfor appellee.
Mm. JUsTIcE L~mAR, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

We find no exceptions in the record, and the only error
assigned is, that the court erred in not giving judgment in
favor of the plaintiff, as a necessary legal conclusion from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

findings of fact, the pleadings and the proper interpretation of
the contract sued on. We think the findings of fact conclusively negative this contention. It seems that both parties
agree (and it is the only point on which they are agreed), that
according to the terms of the contract of the 11th of September, 1885, the share of Clasbey, the defendant, in the 25,000
.shares of stock in the mining corporation was to be deter,mined by the original cost of that stock. In other words,
,that if it was sixty-two and one-half cents per share, Clasbey
,was entitled to a subscription of only 8000 shares, and the
plaintiff Egan to 17,000, in which case the allotment to Clasbey in the articles of incorporation was put there by the
mistake and inadvertence of the draftsman, and subject to
,correction in a future adjustment between those two parties;
but if it was fifty cents a share, then the defendant Clasbey
was entitled to 10,000 shares and the plaintiff to 15,000 shares,
in which case the defendant was under no obligation, in any
future adjustment of stock between them, to turn over any
part of his said shares to plaintiff.
The decisive question, therefore, to be determined is, what
was the original cost of the 25,000 shares that, under the contract, were to be divided between the parties to this suit?
The eighth finding of fact says: "The actual original cost of
the 25,000 shares was fifty cents per share." This, in our
opinion, is absolutely conclusive against the claim of the
plaintiff. Such a finding cannot be twisted and turned into.
a conclusion of law. Nfor do we consider as well taken the
proposition of counsel for the appellant, that as a finding of
fact it is inconsistent, in effect, with the other findings, respecting the original cost of either the mining property or its equivalent, the capitalized stock of the company. It is insisted that
these findings show that, in addition to the original price of
$50,000, the plaintiff, with other members of the company,
advanced divers sums that increased the amount upwards of
$62,000. The reply to this is, that the findings of fact show
that those sums were advances and loans made to the corporation, were treated as such by the plaintiff, and those who contributed with him, and were refunded to them out of the net

PACKER v. BIRD.
Syllabus.

earnings of said corporation, leaving the sum of $50,000 as the
actual outlay by plaintiff and the other purchasers of the
mine. They cannot, therefore, be included in the estimate of
the original cost as between the two parties to this suit.
Equally conclusive, in our opinion, is the 10th finding of
facts, taken in connection with the 8th, upon the question
of the defendant's counter-claim. It appears from that finding that the defendant, at the request of the plaintiff, delivered
to plaintiff 500 shares of stock to enable the latter to fill a
sale, and 25 shares which the plaintiff desired to give to
another person. This stock was delivered to plaintiff, subject
to the adjustment of their stock account. We think the pleadings and findings in this case fully sustain the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Utah Territory, and it is, therefore,
Afrned.

PACKER v. BIRD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME
No. 111.

COURT

OF

Submitted December 3, 1890.-

THE STATE

OF

CALIFORNIA.

Decided January 19, 1891.

The undoubted rule of the common law that the title of owners of land
bordering on navigable rivers above the ebb and flow of the tide extends
to the middle of the stream, having been adopted in some of the States,
and not being recognized in other States, Federal Courts must construe
grants of the general government without reference to the rules of
construction adopted by the States for such grants by them.
Whatever incidents or rights attach to the ownership of property conveyed
by the United States bordering on navigable streams, will be determined
by the States in which it is situated, subject to the limitation that their
rules do not impair the efficacy of the grant, or the use and enjoyment
of the property by the grantee.
The legislation of Congress for the survey of the public lands recognizes
the general rule as to the public interest in waters of navigable streams
without reference to the existence or absence of the tide in them.
The highest court of California having decided that the Sacramento river
bein- navigable in fact, a title upon it extends no farther than to the edge
of the stream, this court accepts that decision as expressing the law of
the State.
The plaintiff claimed land in California under a Mexican grant which was

