OCTOBER TER.M, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

MACKALL v. CASILEAR.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 97. Argued November 26, December 1, 1890.-Decided December 22, 1890.

The plaintiff, having averred in his complaint the execution of a deed by
him to his father, and having conceded its delivery, and there being no
prayer for specific relief as to it, and no averments that would entitle
him to have it set aside for want of acknowledgment under the prayer for
general relief, he cannot set up that the deed is not operative, even as
between the parties, for want of proper acknowledgment and record.
When a deed is void on its face the interference of a court of equity is
unnecessary..
Where the difficulty of doing entire justice by reason of the death of the
principal witness or witnesses, or from the original transactions having
become obscured by time, is attributable to gross negligence or deliberate delay, a court of equity will not aid a party whose application is
thus destitute of conscience, good faith and reasonable diligence.
The mere assertion of a claim, unaccompanied by any act to give effect to.
it, cannot avail to keep alive a right which would otherwise be precluded.
Negotiations for settlement of a disputed matter, which one party hopes
may result in a settlement and adjustment, do not operate to bar in equity
the defence of laches, when the other party gives no encouragement
to such hopes, never promises a settlement, never concedes that his own
claims are doubtful, and never recognizes the other's claims.
The bill in this case alleged that in a suit in equity in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia in which the plaintiff here was defendant, the
conveyance under which the plaintiff in this suit claims had been decreed
to be invalid, from which decree the plaintiffs in that suit had appealed
as to other matters involved; and it set up the pendency of that suit as
excuse for the delay of nineteen years in bringing this one. Held,
(1) That, the plaintiff not having appealed, it was difficult to see why
that decree was not a bar in this suit;
(2) That it furnished no satisfactory explanation of his laches herein.

BROOKE MAOALL, JR., filed his bill of complaint in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia on the first day
of June, 1885, against George W. Casilear and wife; Leonard
Machall and wife; Don Barton Mackall, Benjamin Mackall;
Louise Owens and husband; Catherine Christy and husband;
Edmund Brand and Mary E. Keller; alleging that Leonard,
Don Barton and Benjamin were his brothers, and Louise

IIACKALL v. CASILEAR.
Statement of the-Case.

Owens and Catherine Christy his sisters, all being the sole
surviving children of Brooke Mackall, Sr., and Martha Mackall, his wife; and that Edmund Brand and Mary E. Keller
were the sole surviving children of Louis Brand.
The bill then stated: That on or about December 21, 1863,
complainant became owner in fee simple, through a conveyance to him from Charles W. Pairo, George Randolph, executor, and Brooke Mackall, Sr., of lots in the city of Washington,
D.C., as follows:
Lot 2, square 5 ; lots 3 and 7, square 17; lot 3, square 31;
lot 15, square 41; lot 2, square 42; lot 5, square 43; lot 12,
square 56; lot 10, square 62; lots 13, 14 and 17, square 76;
and a copy of the deed was annexed. That on or about May
5, 1866, complainant executed his promissory notes to the
order of his father, and a deed of trust to said Brooke Mackall,
Sr., as trustee, which deed was acknowledged before the latter
as notary public, upon lot 2, square 5 ; two parts of lot 12,
square 56; and lots 14, 17 and part of 13, square 76, which
was recorded June 5, 1867, and a copy whereof was annexed;
that there was no consideration for these notes, but they were
made for the accommodation of complainant's father for the
purpose of borrowing money for the benefit of both, but no
money was borrowed, and it was not intended that any claim
on the notes should be set up against the complainant, and
there was no default in the payment of the same; that about
seven years after, a variance occurring between complainant
and his father, his father, having possession of the notes, without complainant's knowledge or consent, advertised said property for sale, except one subdivision of lots 13 and 14, square
76, which had in the meantime been otherwise disposed of by
complainant; that the advertisement (a copy of which was
annexed) was published only on three successive days, though
the trust deed required a publication of sixty days; that it
was intended that the sale should be kept concealed from
complainant, and it was not held on the premises, but at the
rooms of the auctioneer; that no bidders were present, and at
the instance of his father the property was struck off nominally.
to one Joseph B. Hill, but really for the benefit of com

558

OCTOBER TERMSA, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

plainant's father, no money being ever paid by Hill, and his
name being used that it might not appear that the trustee was
a purchaser at his own sale; that this was a 'scheme devised
by the father to divest the son of his property and obtain it
himself without paying anything whatever for it; that in pursuance of such scheme, a deed (a copy of which was annexed)
was executed by Brooke Afackall, Sr., as trustee, to Hill, for
the nominal consideration of $2000, though Hill paid nothing;
and complainant charged that the deed was void and of no
effect. This deed was dated June 26, and recorded July 2,
1873.
The bill further averred that on or about March 13, 1867,
complainant conveyed to one Morsell (a copy of which deed
was attached) lot 15, square 41, and lot 5, square 43, in trust
to secure complainant's promissory note for $1000, payable
one year after date, to the order of his father, which note was
indorsed over to Mills and wife, and was paid in full and so
admitted to be paid by a deed conveying the same property,
dated July 14, 1868, by Morsell, Mills and wife, and complainant to Louis Brand to secure in trust complainant's promissory note for $2000, payable to his father's order one year
after date (a copy of which instrument was attached); that
the $2000 note was an accommodation note and made to raise
money for the common benefit of both parties, but no money
was raised, and there was no consideration for the note; that
about five years thereafter, there occurring a variance between
father and son, the father, in pursuance of a similar scheme as
that charged as to the other parcels, procured Brand to advertise the property for sale, and though publication for three
weeks was required, the advertisement was published only
four times successively, and for three days; that this was
without the consent or knowledge of complainant, and without written request as prescribed, and the place of sale was at
the private rooms of the auctioneer; that there were no bidders
at the sale, but at the request of Brooke Mackall, Sr., lot 15,
square 41, and sublots 2, 3, 4 and 5, lot 5, square 43, were
struck off to Hill at the nominal sum of $2000, he paying no
money, and Brooke Mackall, Sr., being the real purchaser, and

A ACKALL v. CASILEAR.
Statement of the Case.

no payment or account was made to complainant, whereupon
a conveyance in the handwriting of Brboke Mackall, Sr., was
executed by said Louis Brand, trustee, to Hill, a copy of which
was annexed, showing that the deed was recorded July 28,
1873; and complainant charged that the sale and deed were
void. Complainant further averred that on the 4th of August,
1873, Hill executed a conveyance (a copy of which was
annexed) to John C. 2lcKelden and Edward McB. Timoney,
as trustees, to secure a note of $3000 of B. Mackall, Sr., to
F. A. Casilear, due in one year from the date thereof ; that said
trustees and said Casilear had full knowledge of the defects of
title herein mentioned, and were not bona fide purchasers or
creditors; that in October, 1874, default having been made by
B. Mackall, Sr., in payment of the note of $3000, the trustees
McKelden and Timoney advertised the property secured in
the deed of trust to them for sale, and thereupon the complainant, at the date and place of sale so advertised, and before
the sale, read a notice and caused copies thereof to be served
upon Timoney and McKelden, and Williams the auctioneer,
which notice was attached to the bill, and was to the effect
that Timoney, :McKelden and Williams had no authority to,
sell the premises, and that Mackall, Jr., would insist upon all
his legal rights to the premises against them and against any
purchaser or purchasers thereof, and protested against the
sale; that the trustees proceeded to sell, and thereupon Casilear bid in the property at $2722.95, and a deed was given by
McKelden and Timoney, as trustees, of sublots 2 and 3 of lot
5, square 43 ; lot 17, square 76 ; and two parts of lot 12, square
56; that on the 13th day of January, 1874, Hill as trustee
and in his own right, and B. Aackall, Sr., joined in a conveyance to Leonard Aackall, as trustee, of lot 15, in square 41;
sublots 2, 3, 4 and 5 of lot 5, square 43; lots 13, 14 and 17 in
square 76; and two parts of lot 12, square 56, for the use and
benefit of Mackall, Sr., and subject to his absolute control and
disposal; that Mackall, Sr., departed this life February 28,
1880, and the brothers and sisters of complainant claim the
property so conveyed to Leonard Mackall as trustee, as his
heirs and devisees; that Casilear claims title to lot 17, square

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

76, and two parts of lot 12, square 56, as derived from the deed
of Mackall, Sr., to Hill; and to sublots 2 and 3 of lot 15, square
43, as derived from the deed of Brand to Hill; that complainant's brothers and sisters claim title to lots 13, 14 and 17,
square 76, and two parts [of] lot 12, square 56, as derived from
the deed of B. Mackall, Sr., to Hill, and lot 15, square 41, and
sublots 2, 3, 4 and 5, square 43, as derived from the deed of
Louis Brand to Hill, which two deeds of B. Mackall, Sr., are
declared to be void, but a cloud upon the property; and that
complainant, though not having the legal title, but being equitably entitled thereto, was entitled to have such deeds with all
subsequent claims of title decreed null and void. Complainant
further stated that some of the reasons for the delay which
had occurred in his not before having filed a bill to set aside
the said conveyances were as follows:
"As to Casilear, he at all times has protested against his
claim, notifying him at the time of his purchase that he should
not submit to the sale, and he has since then been engaged in
negotiations from time to time with him, orally and by mutual
correspondence in writing, which he has hoped would result in
a settlement and adjustment of their differences in regard to
the property held by him. He has received large amounts by
way of rents and profits of said property and has made no
substantial improvements thereon.
"As to the remainder of such property, he says that soon
after the execution of the deeds made in 1874 the said
B. Mackall, Sr., became reconciled to complainant, they living
together and sharing the benefit of all property possessed by
each in 'common. He, said B. Mackall, Sr., constantly assured
complainant that he would rectify all that was wrong in said
conveyances to the best of his ability, which assurance was
relied upon by complainant and was satisfactory to him.
"Said B. Mackall, Sr., drew up forms of reconveyance to
complainant of such property or parts thereof, one of which
he signed and delivered to complainant, and which are now in
possession of complainant.
"In Feb'y, 1880, he did execute a reconveyance of all his
interests in said property, which was entirely satisfactory to

MACKALL v. CASILEAR.
Statement of the Case.

the complainant, though such reconveyance was attacked by
his said brothers rind sisters, and a decree was made adjudging
the same to be void as to the property herein claimed by complainant, from which decree, however, they claim to have
taken an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States,
and which appeal they claim is now pending, though such
claim is not admitted by complainant. While such litigation
was pending, however, there was, as believed by complainant
no propriety in bringing suit to enforce what he claimed to
have been sufficiently performed by the execution of said
deed of his father's to him of Feb'y 28th, 1880, and such
litigation was pending at a very recent date."
Complainant prayed process and that the defendants might
answer the bill under oath; that the two deeds of B. Mfackall,
Sr., trustee, and Brand, trustee, to Hill be adjudged and decreed
to be null and void, together with all deeds, etc., under the
same; that complainant be adjudged to be the owner of the
property free and clear of all claims and demands of the defendants, and entitled to an account; and that an account be
taken and for general relief.
To this bill the defendants Casilear and wife demurred upon
the ground of multifariousness, laches and want of equity, and
the other defendants also demurred upon the ground of prior
decree, multifariousness, etc. The latter demurrer was sustained January 19, 1886, and the bill dismissed. On the 28th
day of January it was stipulated on behalf of the Casilears that
the bill might be considered as amended by adding the averments: "That the complainant had no knowledge of the sales
to Hill or either of them at the time of the conveyance to
MclKelden and McB. Timoney;" that "the fair value of the
property sold by McKelden and McB. Timoney, trustees, to
Casilear was $7500;" and that "Brooke Mackall, Sr., left
complainant only one dollar by his will, giving all the rest of
his estate to his other children," etc. The demurrer on behalf
of the Casilears was then sustained and the bill dismissed.
The cause was taken from the special to the general term of
the court and the decree of the special term affirmed. Thereupon an appeal was taken to this court.
VOL. cXxxvI-36

OCTOBER TER M, 1890.
Citations of Counsel.

-Mr. Samuel Shellabarger,(with whom was .A. Jeremiah
.X. Filson on the brief,) for appellant, cited: (1) as to the
insufficiency of the acknowledgment of the deed from Mackall, Jr., to Mackall, Sr., and the invalidity of the deed by
reason of want of acknowledgment and record - West v.
.-Yebaum, 88 Illinois, 263; Davis v. Beazeley, 75 Virginia,
491; Hammers v. Dole, 61 Illinois, 307; Groesbeck v. Seeley,
13 Michigan, 329 ; Iithers v. Baird,7 Watts, 227; S. C. 32 Am.
Dec. 754; Wilson v. Tra.er,20 Iowa, 231; Goodhue v. Berrien,
2 Sandford Ch. 630; Brown v. -Moore, 38 Texas, 645; Stevens
v. HYamrton, 46 Missouri, 404; Beaman v. Whitney, 20 Maine,
413; Wasson v. Connor, 54 Mississippi, 351; Bowers v. Bowers,
29 Grattan, 697; Van -Ness v. United States Bank, 13 Pet. 17;
Schultz v. .Joore, 1 M cLean, 520; Greenleaf v. Birth, 6 Pet.
302; Scott v. Reed, 10 Pet. 524; Wood v. Owings, 1 Cranch,
239: and (2) as to laches.- 2 Story Eq. Jur. ยง 1520 and cases
cited: Hill v. Law, 102 U. S. 461; Clarke v. Boorman, 18 Wall.
493, 505 ; .ichoud v. Girod, 4 How. 503; Wagner v. Baird,7
How. 234; Godden v. Eimmell, 99 U. S. 201 ; Prevost v. Gratz,
6 Wheat. 481 ; Bryan v. Eales, 134 U. S. 126.
.Xr. J. J. Darlington,for Casilear and wife, appellees, cited
as to laches: .Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152; Clholmondeley v. Clinton, 2 Jac. & Walk. 1; X iller v. XoAntyre, 6 Pet.
61; .ovenden v. Annersley, 2 Sch. & Lef. 633; Piatt v. Vattier, 9 Pet. 405; M.cnight v. Taylor, 1 How. 161; Lewis v.
Baird,3 McLean, 82; -Maxwell v. .Kennedy,8 Row. 210 ; landsdale v. Smith, 106 U. S. 391; Sullivan v. Portland &c. Railroad, 94 U. S. 806; Godden v. Himmell, 99 U. S. 201; Jenkins
v. Pye, 12 Pet. 241; Brown v. Buena Vista County, 95 U. S.
157; Ilarwood v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 78; Hayward v.
NSational Bank, 96 U. S. 611; Richards v. .fackall, 124 U. S.
183; Roberts v. Tunstall, 4 Hare, 257; Hunt v. -Ellison,32
Alabama, 173; Hamlin v. .febane, 1 Jones Eq. 18; Sullivan
v. Portland & HYennebec Railroad, 4 Cliff. 212; Graham v.
Boston,.Hartford&c. Railroad,14 Fed. Rep. 753; 8.peidell v.
Henrici,15 Fed. Rep. 753.
31r. S. S. Henkle for devisees of Brooke Mackall, Senior,
appellees.

MACKAIL v. CASILEAR.
Opinion of the Court.

Mrn. CHIiEF

JUSTICE

FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Apart from the prayers for process, an account, and for
general relief, the specific relief sought is, that the two deeds
of B. Mackall, Sr., trustee, and Louis Brand, trustee, to Joseph
B. Hill be decreed to be null and void, together with all deeds,
written instruments, and claims of title whatever derived
through the same, and that complainant be adjudged to be the
owner of the property free and clear from all claims and demands of the defendants or either of them.
The deed of complainant to Mackall, Senior, was dated May
5, 1866, and recorded June 5, 1867. The deed of Mackall to
Hill was dated June 26, and recorded July 2, 1873. Brand's
title was derived through a conveyance by complainant to
Morsell, dated March 13, 1867, and thb conveyance of Morsell,
Mills and complainant to him, dated July 14, 1868. The deed
from Brand to Hill was dated and acknowledged July 29,
1873, and presumably recorded the same day, though the record gives the date as July 28. The bill was filed June 1,1885.
The death of Mackall, Sr., was stated to have occurred February
28, 18S0. This attack was delivered, then, more than nineteen
years after the deed to Mackall; about seventeen after that to
Brand; and nearly twelve years after the other two deeds
were recorded.
It is charged that the deed of Mlay 5, 1866, was given to
secure complainant's two notes, amounting to nearly $600 in
the aggregate,*for the purpose of borrowing money for the
use of father and son, but that no money was ever borrowed
thereon; and that the deed to Brand was given to s~cure a
note for $2000 payable to Mackall, Sr., for the same purpose,
likewise not carried out.
Counsel for complainant insisted, upon the argument, that
the deed from Mackall, Jr. to Mackall, Sr., was void, because
Mackall, Sr., took the acknowledgment, and that the sales
made by Brand and Mackall, Sr., to Hill were invalid by reason of the omission .to advertise for the time prescribed, and
the want of publicity in the conduct of the sales, and because

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

these transactions were merely covers for the purchase by
JMackall himself in fraud of complainant's rights.
If the general rule that an acknowledgment is not essential
to the validity of a deed as between the parties applies, the
fact that a grantee cannot take the acknowledgment of a conveyance to himself would be immaterial in this case. The
execution of this deed to Machall was expressly averred by
complainant and its delivery conceded, but he alleged that it
was given to secure notes for the purpose of borrowing money
for himself and his father, and that this was not done.
There is no prayer for specific relief in relation to it, nor do
we think the averments such as would entitle complainant to
resort to the prayer for general relief, to set it aside, by reason of the want of acknowledgment, if that were a proper
ground; and, if void upon its face, as now contended, the
interference of a court of equity would seem to be unnecessary. Phelps v. Harris,101 U. S. 370, 375. We shall not,
therefore, review the various statutes of Maryland, acts of
Congress, and authorities referred to by counsel as tending to
justify the position that in the District of Columbia a deed
is not operative, even as between the parties, notwithstanding
delivery, unless it be acknowledged and recorded.
As already stated, nineteen years after the conveyance to
M,ackall, Sr., seventeen after that to Brand, twelve after the
deeds to IHill, and five after Mackall's death, the son charges
the father with what his counsel calls "actual, active and
intense fraud;" and, in explanation of the delay in seeking
to be relieved from the consequences of this conduct on his
father's part, says that "soon after the execution of the deeds
made In 1874," (the conveyances by Hill and Mackall, Sr., to
Leonard Mackall, and by McKelden and Timoney to Casilear,
were in 1874,) his father became reconciled to him, and they
lived together and shared the benefit of all property possessed by each in common, and his father constantly assured
him that he would rectify all that was wrong in said conveyances to the best of his ability, which assurance was relied
upon by complainant and was satisfactory to him; that his
father drew up forms of reconveyance to him of such property

MAOACJAL v. CASILEAR.
Opinion of the Court.

or parts thereof, one of which he signed and delivered to
complainant; and that "in February, 1880, he did execute a,
reconveyance of all his interests in said property, which was:
entirely satisfactory to complainant, though such reconveyance was attacked by his said brothers and sisters, and a decree
was made adjudging the same to be void as to the property
herein claimed by complainant, from which decree, however,
they claim to have taken an appeal to the Supreme Couit of
the United States, and which appeal they claim is now pending, though such claim is not admitted by complainant'While such litigation was pending, however, there was, as.
believed by complainant, no propriety in bringing suit to
enforce what he claimed to have been sufficiently performed
by the execution of said deed of his father's to him of February 28, 1880, and such litigation was pending at a very
recent date."
As complainant did not appeal from the decree passed
against him in favor of his brothers and sisters in relation to
this property, it must still stand as a bar, and it is not easy
to see why, under the circumstances stated by complainant,
that litigation did not include the same matters and things
which are drawn in controversy in this suit.
Supposing that the bill of the complainant's brothers and
sisters attacked the deed of February 28, 1880, upon the
ground that its execution was secured by undue influence,
would it not devolve upon the defendant in that case, the
complainant herein, to set up that he was in fact the owner
of the property; that his father had obtained the conveyance
from him under circumstances constituting a fraud upon him;
and that the deed of February, 1880, was given by the deceased
in order to restore to the defendant, complainant here, what,
he had been wrongfully deprived of? And as complainant
contends such were the facts, why was not that defence set.
up? If such were not the facts, what becomes of the complainant's bill?
But assumiig that the matters relied on here are not necessarily inconsistent with that decree, then according to his owii
contention complainant occupies this position: having accepted

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

a deed from his father completely condoning the causes of
complaint which he alleges he had against him, he now, after
his father's death, seeks to go behind that final and satisfactory
compromise, because upon some ground, outside of anything
litigated in this suit, his brothers and sisters succeeded in
defeating the deed in a controversy between him and them.
This we think he cannot do; nor can we admit complainant's
ideas of propriety in bringing this bill, while that was pending, or in declining to litigate these matters in that action, as
furnishing any satisfactory explanation of the laches which
has characterized his conduct. If that laches could in any
respect be held to be excused by reason of his expectations
from his father, we cannot allow him to plead, that because
those expectations in part failed of realization through some
external cause, therefore he is any the less bound, so far as his
dead father is concerned, by a delay which would otherwise
be fatal.
The doctrine of laches is based upon grounds of public policy,
which require for the peace of society the discouragement of
stale demands. And where the difficulty of doing entire
justice by reason of the death of the principal witness or
witnesses, or from the original transactions having become
obscured by time, is attributable to gross negligence or deliberate delay, a court of equity will not aid a party whose application is thus destitute of conscience, good faith and reasonable
diligence. Jenkin. v. Pye, 12 Pet. 241; JcXE-night v. Taylor,
1 How. 161, 168; Godden v. Ximmell, 99 U. S. 201; .andsdale
v. Smith, 106 U. S. 391; Ie Gendre v. Byrnes, 44 N. J. Eq.
372; Wilkinson v. Sherman, 45 M. J. Eq. 413.
The time for this son to have attacked his father on the
ground of fraud was prior to that father's death; yet no movement was made to set aside these alleged fraudulent conveyances, until five years after that event transpired. The father
died testate, and by his will the property in controversy, subject to the Casilear conveyances, passed to the brothers and
sisters of complainant, as the father's devisees, who were
natural objects of the bounty of the testator, and, so far as
this record shows, entitled to his consideration. The allega-

MACKATL v. CASILEAR.
Opinion of the Court.

tions of the bill fall far short of discharging the burden, which
rested on the complainant, of satisfying the court that his
delay had not operated to the prejudice of these parties.
Without regard to the deed of February, 1880, the rule in
question would forbid relief, and, so far as that deed is concerned, complainant could not elect to take under it and then
claim that delay was excused while he experimented in trying
his case by piecemeal. Of course it must be admitted that an
affectionate son would feel a natural reluctance to make a
charge of fraud against his father, but where the time consumed in overcoming this is prolonged, as in this instance, we
cannot recognize the relationship as sufficient explanation of
the laches.
These views are applicable to the defendants Casilear. Oasilear purchased at a sale under a trust deed given to secure a
note for $3000, in respect to which there is no allegation
that the note was not for value received. The excuse for the
delay is that complainant protested against Casilear's claim
and notified him that he would not submit to the sale; but
the mere assertion of a claim, unaccompanied by any act to
give effect to it, cannot avail to keep alive a right which would
otherwise be precluded. It is said, however, that complainant
had been engaged in negotiations from time to time with
Casilear, orally and by mutual correspondence in writing,
which complainant hoped would result in a settlement and
adjustment of their differences in regard to the property held
by him; but the bill does not state that Casilear gave any
encouragement to such hopes, or ever promised any settlement
or adjustment, or ever conceded that his purchase was in any
respect doubtful, or ever in any way recognized the claims of
the complainant.
Under the circumstances we entertain no doubt that the
demurrers were properly sustained and the decree is
.4ffl~rmed.

