OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

answer; and that the marshal of the Southern District of
New York had taken him into custody for the contempt, and
continued to hold him. The petitioner prayed for a writ of
habeas corpus to that officer from this court.
PER CunAm: Petitioner alleges that he is detained by the
United States marshal for the Southern District of New
York, by virtue of an order purporting to be an order of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Colorado.
The motion for leave to file a petition for the writ of habeas
corpus is denied upon the authority of Ex parte .Mirzan, 119
U. S. 584, and cases cited.
Denied.
-Mr. Backus 1V. Huntington for the petitioner.

FLORSIIEIM v. SCMILLING.
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 23. Argued October 21, 22, 1890. -Decided

November 10, 1890.

The claims in letters patent No. 238,100 granted to Simon Elorsheim
and Thomas H. Ball, February 22, 1881, for "an improvement in corsets," and claims 1 and 2 in letters patent No. 238,101 granted to the
same grantees on the same day for " an improvement in elastic gores,
gussets, and sections for wearing apparel," are invalid by reason of
their long prior use as inventions secured by patents which cover every
feature described in those claims; and the combination of those features
in No. 238,100 is not a patentable invention.
The substitution in a manufactured article of one material for another, not
involving change of method or developing novelty of use, is not necessarily a patentable invention, even though it may result in a superior
article.
A new arrangement or grouping of parts or elements of a patented article,
which is the mere result of mechanical judgment, and the natural outgrowth of mechanical skill, is not invention.
The combination of old devices into a new article, without producing any
new mode of operation, is not invention.

FLORSHEIM

v. SCHILLING.

Opinion of the Court.

L EQUITY for an infringement of letters patent. Decree
dismissing the bill. Complainants appealed. The case is stated
in the opinion.

.Mi&. L. L. Cobum for appellants.
XrM. L. L. Bond for appellee.
MR.

JusTIoC,

LAm

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois, by Simon
Florsheim and Thomas I=. Ball against Gustav Schilling, for
the alleged infringement of letters patent Nos. 238,100 and
238,101, the first of which was for an "improvement in corsets," and the second for an "improvement in elastic gores,
gussets, and sections for wearing apparel," both of which were
issued to the complainants February 22, 1881, on applications
filed, respectively, August 12, and July 16, 1880, the invention
in each purporting to have been made by the complainant
Florsheim.
The material parts of the specification in No. 238,100, and
its claims, are as follows:
"The object I have in view is such an improvement upon
the corset shown in the patent granted November 25, 1879, to
Gustav Schilling and myself, that while the same will possess
all of the advantages obtained by the use of the covered and
grouped metal spiral springs it will allow an easier and more
equal expansion of the entire corset, will adapt itself more perfectly to the form of the wearer, and will better supply the
popular want, in that it will have means for lacing the corset
at the back. The improved corset also includes a better and
cheaper method of securing the springs and forming the groups,
-whereby the elastic sections can be stitched in place on a
machine without interfering with the springs, and the elasticity of the sections cannot be injured by the stitching.
"My invention consists in the peculiar means for accomplishing this object, as fully hereinafter explained, and pointed
out by the claims.
VOL. CXXxVI-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

"In the accompanying drawings, forming a part hereof,
figure 1 is a view of the corset in position from the front; Fig.
2, a similar view from the rear; Fig. 3, an elevation of a portion of one side of the corset, showing one of the elastic side
sections; Fig. 4, a detail view, showing the preferred way of
arranging and forming the springs of a group, one side of the
covering cloth being removed; and Fig. 5, a vertical section
through a portion of one of the elastic side sections of the
corset.
"Like letters denote corresponding parts in all the figures.
"The corset is composed of two separate parts, A B, which
are secured together at the front, as usual, by studs and loops,
and at the back have eyelets for receiving lacings. The central sections C D, at the sides of the corset, which extend from
under the arms down over the hips, instead of being made as
usual, are constructed of two layers or thicknesses of cloth or
other material, which thicknesses are sewed or woven together
a portion of their width to form horizontal tubes which receive
and cover small closely coiled spiral springs E, of metal. The
pieces of cloth from which the sections C D are formed are
considerably wider than such sections when completed, so that
when puckered laterally they will be of the desired width.
The tubes are located in the centre of the sections, and do not
extend to the edges of the same, as seen in Fig. 4, so that margins will be left at the ends of the tubes, which margins are
lapped with the adjoining sections of the corset and stitched
thereto. The springs are arranged in groups, as shown, with
puckered spaces of cloth, between such groups. The number
of springs composing the groups will vary according to location, so as to give the requisite stiffness and elasticity. Thus,
at the top and bottom of the elastic side sections the groups
of springs should not be made so stiff as at the waist of the
corset. The springs are passed through the tubes which are
puckered over the springs to the desired extent. The springs
terminate at the ends of the tubes and are secured to the thicknesses, so as to leave clear margins of unpuckered cloth outside
of such springs. This is a great advantage over the construction shown in the patent before referred to, since it enables

FLORSHEIM v. SCHILLING.
Opinion of the Court.

the elastic sections to be stitched into the corset on a sewing
machine, which cannot be wall done when the ends of the
springs are secured by the same stitching, since the needle
strikes the coils of the spring and either cuts the spring or
breaks the needle. Herein also is one of the peculiar advantages over rubber cloth. Rubber cloth, when stitched into a
corset, always has more or less of the rubber cords cut off by
the needle, and it is thus greatly weakened, while in my corset the elasticity of the sections cannot be affected by the
stitching.
"The cheapest manner of arranging and securing the groups
of springs to secure the above advantages is by making all the
groups of each section from a single continuous length of
metal spiral spring. The spring is secured at its upper end by
stitches passed through the thickness at the end of the upper
tube and inclosing one or more coils of the spring. The spring
is then passed back and forth through the tubes, which are
puckered at the same time. After forming one group the
spring extends down between the thicknesses to the next group,
and so on till the lowest group (or the uppermost group, as the
case may be) is finished, when the spring may be cut off, if
there is more than required, and will be secured by stitches
passed through the thickness. The elastic section can then
be placed in the corset, the plain margins being lapped with
the edges of the adjoining sections and secured by lines of
machine-stitching.
"By making the groups of springs of a single piece of coiled
wire passed back and forth through the tubes and from one
group to the other the groups relieve.each other somewhat,
and when one group is subjected to great strain the springs of
the adjoining groups are stretched also. In addition, by constructing the spring in this manner no ends are left to wear
through the cloth, as would be the case if separate springs,
sewed at their ends, were used. It would be impracticable to
insert separate springs and sew them in position at the ends
of tubes, and if such springs were used, they would pull away
from the fastening stitches in a short time. The springs can
only be stretched to the full width of the cloth composing the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

side sections, and they will be thus limited in their expansion
so as not to be injured by being stretched too fax.
"By having the elastic sections in the sides of the corset the
corset can adapt itself to different forms without the use of
other elastic sections or gores, and such elastic side sections,
by extending the entire length of the corset, from under the
arms down over the hips, allow the front and back of the
corset to expand and contract from these central side points
independently of each other and more easily and freely than
when a back elastic section is used.
."My side elastic sections are made continuous
from the top
to the bottom of the corset, leaving no open spaces.
"The covered metal springs possess great advantages over
rubber cloth for this purpose other than those before mentioned. The rubber cloth is not nearly so durable, and soon
wears out and loses its elasticity at points subjected to the
most strain. The rubber cloth also has equal stiffness throughout, and cannot be regulated to have different degrees of elasticity at different points; and it further does not possess that
independent elasticity obtained by the groups of springs, each
group acting wholly independent of all the other groups. The
covered metal springs also do not heat and bind the flesh, as
does the rubber cloth.
"It is essential also that the springs be arranged in groups,
since, if placed contiguous throughout the elastic sections, the
corset would be much too heavy and expensive, and such sections would be too stiff at some points and not stiff enough at
others.
"As a modification of the corset it could. be made continuous at the back without any provision for lacing, or the back
could be provided with an elastic section; but I prefer the
construction shown, since it enables the wearer to adjust the
corset by means of the lacings, so that the elastic sections will
always give to the corset an easy and pleasant tension.
"What I claim as my invention is "1. In a corset, an elastic section composed of two thicknesses of cloth or material having tubes in combination with
the spiral metal springs E, inclosed by such tubes, and arranged

FL0RSHELM 'v. SOHILLING.
Opinion of the Court.

in groups to regulate the elasticity of the section, such groups
being all composed of a single continuous spring passed back
and forth through the tubes and secured at its ends, substantially as described and shown.
"2. An elastic section or gore composed of material having
tubes extending only part way across the same, and plain
margins outside of said tubes, and spiral metal springs arranged
in groups in such tubes, the springs of the several groups being
made continuous, substantially as described.
"3. A corset laced at the back and having the elastic side
sections 0 D, extending from under the arms down over the
hips, each of such sections being composed of material having
puckered tubes extending part way across the same, and plain
margins outside of said tubes, and spiral metal springs arranged
in groups in such tubes and made continuous, substantially as
described and shown."
In :No. 238,101 the specification, so far as is necessary to be
considered, and the claims, are as follows:
"The substitution of spiral metal springs for india rubber
as an element in elastic gores, gussets and sections for wearing
apparel has not heretofore proved successful, for the reason
that in all instances the springs have been stayed at their ends
by the same stitching that secures the gore to the material of
the article of wearing apparel to which it is applied. This
stitching cannot be done by machine, since the wire of the
springs would be cut by the needle when struck squarely, or
the needle itself be broken; and when the elastic gore or section is sewed in position by hand, and the springs are secured
by the same stitching, the seams are thick and uneven, and
present a bungling appearance which destroys the salableness
of the article, in addition to the fact that the hand sewing has
heretofore made the use of metal springs impracticable on
account of the increased cost.
"It is the object, therefore, of my invention to overcome the
objections to the employment of spiral metal springs as a substitute for india rubber in elastic gores, gussets and sections
for wearing apparel, and this I accomplish by extending the
springs only part way across the covering material, and stay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ing them at their ends by securing them to such covering material itself, while the covering material is extended beyond the
ends of the springs to form inelastic margins, by which the
gore can be secured in position by stitching these margins, on
sewing machine, to the material of the article of wearing
apparel to which the gore is applied. This elastic gore is
adapted more especially for corsets, for the sides of gaiters, and
for use upon the waistbands of overalls and pantaloons; but
it can be employed upon other articles of wearing apparel
wherever rubber cloth is now used, and also, on account of its
strength, durability, coolness, its independence of action, and
the nicety with which its elasticity can be regulated, in many
places where rubber cloth cannot be employed to advantage.
"My infvention consists, first, in securing the metal springs
to the covering material and extending such covering material
beyond the ends of the springs to form inelastic margins; second, in puckering the centre of such covering material, while
the inelastic margins are left plain and unpuckered; third, in
weaving the covering material of such elastic gore with the
covering tubes formed therein in the process of manufacture,
such material and the tubes being woven of a particular pattern to suit the location where the elastic gore is intended to
be used, the tubes not extending to the ends of the material;
and fourth, in the peculiar fastening for securing the springs
to the covering material, all as fully hereinafter explained and
pointed out by the claims.
"In the elastic gore the covering material performs three
offices, viz.: It covers the springs, limits their expansion, and
furnishes means for securing the gore in position.
"What I claim as my invention is "1. An elastic gore, gusset, or section for wearing apparel,
composed of a covering material having tubes, spiral metal
springs inclosed by such tubes, and not extending to the edges
of the covering material, and stayed at their ends by such covering material, and inelastic margins outside of the springs,
substantially as described, for the purpose set forth.
"2. An elastic gore, gusset, or section, composed of a covering material having tubes and spiral metal springs inclosed by

FLORSHEIM v. SCHILLING.
Opinion of the Court.

such tubes, and not extending to the edges of the covering
material, and stayed at their ends by such covering material,
said covering material being puckered at its center over the
springs, and having plain unpuckered margins extending wholly
outside of the springs, substantially as described and shown.
"3. An elastic gore, gusset, or section, composed of a covering material woven with tubes therein of a particular pattern to suit the location where the elastic gore, gusset, or
section is intended to be used, such tubes not extending to the
edges of the covering material, and spiral metal springs inclosed by such tubes and stayed by the covering material at
the ends of the tubes, substantially as described and shown.
"4. In an elastic gore, gusset, or section, the combination
of the covering material made of double thickness, and having
tubes not extending to the edges of the covering material,
with spiral metal springs inclosed by such tubes, and fastenings extending across the ends of the tubes between the thicknesses of the covering material, substantially as described and
shown."
The bill, filed June 12, 1882, contained the usual allegations
as to the issue of the patents in suit, charged that the defendant had infringed both of them in the district where the suit
was brought, and prayed an injunction, an accounting, and
damages.
The defences pleaded were: (1) non-infringement ; (2) that
there is no patentable novelty in either of the alleged inventions; and (3) that the defendant himself was the original
inventor of the devices in question.
Issue was joined, proofs were taken, and on the 11th of
January, 1886, the court entered a decree, holding that there
had been no infringement as complained of, and that the
patents in suit were void for want of novelty, and ordering
that the bill be dismissed for want of equity. This decree
was afterwards modified so as to not apply to the last two
claims in No. 238,101. From this decree the complainants
have appealed. The opinion of the Circuit Court is reported
in 26 Fed. Rep. 256.
In construing these patents the court below very properly

OCTOBER TERIM,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

took into consideration the state of the art when the applications for them were made, and found that some of the elements
were embraced in the English patent of John MLills, of March
14, 1815, others in the English patent of the Millers, of December 31, 1866, and the remainder in the American patent
issued to Mary J. 0. Wanorstrand, February 1, 1876. That is
to say, the court found that there was no feature whatever
in the patents in suit that had not been used and applied long
previously in prior inventions. The court also ruled that, in
this view of the case, it became unnecessary to consider the
testimony taken, bearing upon the question of the defendant's
alleged invention of the devices in the patents in suit.
It is assigned for error that the court erred (1) in entering
a decree finding non-infringement, because it was stated in
the opinion that it was unnecessary to consider the testimony
bearing upon the quiestion of infringement, under the view
taken of the question of novelty; (2) in finding that there.was
no novelty in complainants' invention, because one feature was
found in one old patent, and another feature in another, and
still another feature in a third patent, all of which constituted
the subject-matter of the claims in complainants' patent; and
(3) in finding that the description in the English patent issued
to the M illers in 1866 was sufficiently clear to enable a person
to construct from it an elastic gore or gusset like the one shown
and patented.
After a careful examination of the evidence relied on in
support of these assignments of error we cannot assent to the
positions assumed by the appellants. We concur with the
Circuit Court that all the claims in these patents, except the
last two claims in No. 238,101, are invalid by reason of their
long prior use as inventions secured by patents which cover
every feature described in those claims; and that the combination of these features in No. 238,100 is not a patentable
invention.
What are the characteristic features of the device or mechanism described in No. 238,100? They are all, as a close
analysis will show, limited, confessedly, to a corset constructed
with an arrangement of elastic sections or gussets at the two

FLORSHEIM v. SCHILLING.
Opinion of the Court.

respective sides, extending from the arm-pits to the hips, consisting of coils of spiral wire inserted in, and passed back and
forth through, tubes or channels wrought between two thicknesses of the material of the gusset. On comparing with this
the gusset shown and described in the English Mills patent,
set up in the answer of the defendant, we find that the latter
contains the elastic section or gusset, the elasticity secured by
coils of spiral wire enclosed between two thicknesses of the
material out of which the said gusset or section is made, which
gusset extends from the top to the bottom of the corset.
Mills, in his specification, says: "]My improvement of elastic
stays for women and children . . . consists of the introduction of a flexible or elastic portion in those parts of the stays
best calculated to give relief to the wearer, and at the same
time preserving that stability and support usually given to
the body by the common adoption of Wvhale-bone, steel, and
other hard or flexible materials. . . . This flexible portion
is composed of springs, either of brass, copper, or iron wire, or
of any other matter or thing capable of producing sufficient
elasticity; but that which I recommend is small brass wire
worm springs, which extend by a small degree of force.
These I place close together in runners or spaces stitched
in between two pieces or laying of silk, satin, or other fit material, puckered or quilted loosely to give room for expansion,
the ends of the springs and their covering of silk, satin, or
other matter on them sewed or otherwise fastened to and
between the two -half pieces of the stay previously made of
the usual materials, such as jean or other cotton, linen, silk,
woolen, or leather, with the proper busks or necessary portions of steel, whale-bone, or other substance commonly
adopted, calculated to distend the stay and brace and support
the body. . . . The manufacture of these patent stays is not
confined to form or shape, neither to the use of any particular
article or material of which to make the same, but adopt such
as custom or propriety dictate, adhering to the principle of
inserting elastic portions into the stays of such forms, agreeable to the foregoing principle, as under all circumstances
may be found most eligible and best calculated to afford that
relief for which the patent is granted."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The counsel for appellants contends that this Mills patent
does not have a single element contained in the appellants'
patent in suit. He says: "The Mills patent does not contain
the spiral metal springs arranged in groups, the springs being
composed of a single continuous spring passed back and forth
through the tubes, nor does it have any plain margins on the
sides of the sections, nor does it have elastic sections extending
from under the arms down over the hips;" and that they only
"extend from one end of the shoulder-strap down the back of
the corset."
It may be observed, in reply to this, that the drawings of
the Mills patent, according to the evidence of one of the
defendant's experts, show a plain margin on each side of the
elastic section or gusset for attachment to the main parts of
the corset, and that the Mills specification leaves it in the discretion of the manufacturer as to where the elastic section is
to be placed -whether at the sides of the corset or at the
back, the statement being that it should be placed where it
will be found most eligible and best calculated to give relief to
the wearer, etc.
What are the particular features of the improvements which
it is alleged distinguish the patent in suit from those contained
in the Mills patent ? According to the contention of appellants' counsel, they are, (1) the continuous spring; (2) the
inelastic margin at the sides of the gusset, whereby it may be
attached to the corset without the connecting stitches crossing
the springs; (3) the location of the elastic gusset at the sides;
and (4) the grouping arrangement of the springs. The first
two of these features, i.e. the continuous spring and the inelastic margin, are described in the English patent of the Millers
issued in 1866, as fully and explicitly as they are in the patent
of the appellants in this suit.
The specification in the patent of the Millers is as follows:
"This invention has for its object improvements in the manufacture of elastic gussets suitable for use in boots and stays
and for other purposes.

.

.

"Now, according to our invention, we secure the vulcanized
india-rubber springs between two pieces of woven fabric,

FLORSHIEIM v. SCHILLING.
Opinion of the Court.

leather or other material, by stitching with a sewing machine,
the stitches running in parallel lines and passing through the'
two pieces of fabric or material between the india-rubber
springs, and the springs,,inplace of being each a separate_piece,
are in one piece, the length of vulcanized india-rubber cord at
the end of each traverse across the gusset being turned round
and caused to return parallel to itself; thus the liability of the
india-rubber to slip and work out of the gusset is much reduced.
When gussets made in this manner are worked into boots or
other articles the stitches by which they are secured are passed
through a margin on each side of the gusset and not through
the india-rubbe part of the gusset, as heretofore.
"In order that our invention may be fully understood and
readily carried into effect we will describe the manner in which
we prefer to proceed.
"We first cut the material -leather, silk, cotton, or any
other woven fabric -and the lining to the size required for
the gusset when extended and for leaving the required margin.
We then turn over the top edge and baste or tack it down to
the lining; we then commence to stitch with a sewing machine
a series of rows in parallel lines transversely across the gusset,
the stitching passing through the two materials, commencing
at the top and so on from row to row until the whole of the
gusset is stitched; the distance between the rows of stitches
will depend on the thickness of the india-rubber thread to be
inserted; about eight or ten rows to the inch is usually a convenient distance; we then pass between the two materials, into
every space or cavity between the rows of stitches, wires or
needles, of a length somewhat longer than the width of the
gusset and of the size of the cavity; the gusset is then ready
to be contracted or drawn up to the size required."
Then follows the description of the machine used for contracting the gusset, and after that there is a description of the
method for inserting the elastic rubber cord, which, as before
stated, is a continuous one. The specification again refers to
the plain margin at the sides of the gusset and describes the
method by which it may be re-enforced or rendered stronger
than the ordinary margin.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

There is evidence in the record tending to show that the
-nachine used by complainants for puckering the material
between which the metal springs are placed is substantially
identical with the one described in the Miller patent for performing the similar function of what is there termed contracting or drawing up the gusset to the required size. And it
seems perfectly clear that the method of inserting the metal
springs in the one and the elastic rubber cord performing the
same functions in the other is substantially the same.
Counsel for appellants discusses at some length the Miller
patent, and attempts to show that the gusset is not sufficiently
described therein to enable one skilled in the art to make one
like that described in the Florsheim patent. We think, however, his argument does not overthrow the conclusion of the
court that there is no patentable difference between the gussets
described in the English patent of the Millers and those described in the Florsheim patent. It is true that in the Miller
patent an india-rubber spring is used instead of a metal spiral
spring as in both the Florsheim and the Mills patents. But
the substitution of one material for another, which does not
involve change of method nor develop novelty of use, even
though it may result in a superior article, is not necessarily a
patentable invention. Hlotchkiss v. Greenwood, 11 How. 248;
Hicks v. Kelsey, 18 Wall. 670; Terhune v. Phillips,99 U. S.
592; Gardner v. Herz, 118 U. S. 180; Brown v. District of
Columbia, 130 U. S. 87. In this particular instance the substitution itself was not new; for, as we have seen, wire coil
was used for springs in corsets as early as the year 1815.
With regard to the two remaining features -the location
of the elastic gusset in the side of the corset instead of the
back, and the grouping of the springs, the former is found
fully described in the specification of the American patent
granted in 1876 to Mary J. C. Vanorstrand. A certified copy
of this patent, though introduced in evidence, does not appear
in the record; but we were furnished, on the argument, with
a copy of it, and that corset contained elastic gussets extending
on both sides from the arm-pits to the hips.
The grouping of the springs is no less distinctly described

FLORSHEII

v. SCHILLING.

Opinion of the Court.

and shown in the Schilling and Florsheim patent of 1879, a
certified copy of which appears in the record. The different
arrangement of these groupings as they appear in the patent
sued upon is not an invention, but is a mere matter of mechanical judgment, "the natural outgrowth of the development of
mechanical skill as distinguished from invention." Burt v.
Evory, 133 U. S. 349, 358, and authorities there cited; Brown
v. Piper,91 U. S. 37.
The argument is advanced that the combination in this
corset of the prior inventions secured and put into use by prior
patents, making it a superior and cheaper article, is itself a
patentable invention. We are unable to agree with appellants'
counsel on this point. In Pickeringv. 2tfeCullough, 104 U. S.
310, 318, this court, speaking through Mr. Justice Matthews,
said: "In a patentable combination of old elements, all the
constituents must so enter into it as that each qualifies every
other. . . . It must form either a new machine of a distinct character and function, or produce a result due to the
joint and co-operating action of all the elements, and which is
not the mere adding together of separate contributions."
"The combination of old devices into a new article, without
producing any new mode of operation, is not invention."
Burt v. Evory, sutpra. See also iailes v. Van Womer, 20
Wall. 353; Reckendorfer v. Faber, 92 U. S. 341; Tack Co. v.
Two Rivers .Aanfacturing Co., 109 U. S. 117; Bussey v. Excelsio), Manufacturing Co., 110 U. S.131; Phillips v. Detroit,
111 U. S. 604; Stephenson v. Brooklyn Railroad Co., 114
U. S. 149; Beecher .Mfg. Co. v. Atwater Xfg. Co., 114 U. S.
523; That her Heating Co. v. Burtis, 121 U. S.286; Eiendy
v. 3liners' Iron Wforks, 127 U. S.370.
In the light of these authorities, our judgment is that the
appellants' patent No. 238,100 was for a corset that had been
in long and publicly known use, each part of it previously
patented; that it involved nothing original in the construction
of those parts nor in their relation to one another, nor any
change in the function of any one of them; and that the combination of them produced no original mechanism or device.
The greater part of the foregoing observations apply equally

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

to the patent No. 238,101 for an elastic gore or gusset for
wearing apparel, and we concur in the conclusion of the court
below, that the first two claims of that patent are void for
want of novelty, and all the elements in those claims are found
in the English patent of the Millers already considered.
For these reasons the decree of the court below is
Affirmed.

HJENNESSY v. BACON.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 1103. Submitted October 21, 1890. -Decided

November 10,1890.

If one party to a contract intends to rescind it on the ground of failure of
performance by the other, a clear notice of such intention must be given,
unless either the contract dispenses with notice, or it becomes unnecessary by reason of the conduct of the parties.
A settlement of a disputed claim between parties dealing on terms of
equality and having no relations of trust or confidence to each other,
each having knowledge, or the opportunity to acquire knowledge, of
every fact bearing upon the validity of their respective claims, will be
supported by a court of equity in the absence of fraud or of the concealment of facts which the party concealing was bound to disclose.

IN

EQUITY.

The case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

IT was adjudged below, 35 Fed. Rep. 174, that the appellees
Bacon and Rogers each owned in fee an undivided one-fourth,
and the appellant Hennessy an undivided one-half, of certain
lands in Washington County, Minnesota, and that partition
thereof be made between them upon that basis. Of this decree the appellant complains, his contention being that he
holds the legal title to an undivided half of the lands and that
the appellees should be required to surrender to him the title
to the other half.
It appears that the lands originally belonged to George N.
Chittenden of Illinois, and that by written contract of date

