THE STEAMS=tP HAVERTON.
Opinion of the Court.

action because the court by law had no jurisdiction of their
case, and thereupon the cause was remanded; and, having been
remanded, this writ of error cannot be maintained, and is
therefore
-Dismissed.

TEE STEAMSHIP HAVERTON.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 60. Argued and submitted November 7, 1890. -Decided

November 17, 1890.

In a collision case in admiralty the valuation of the sunken vessel and
effects was $6057, for which amount the District Court gave judgment.
The Circuit Court, on appeal, awarded one-half the valuation, viz.:
e3028.50. Held, that this court had no jurisdiction on appeal.
The Hesper, 122 U. S. 126; and The Alaska, 130 U. S. 201, distinguished.
THE

case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

This was a libel filed to recover the value of the pilot-boat
Mary and Catherine, sunk in a collision, and also of certain
personal effects on board of her at the time. The value of the
pilot-boat was determined by the Circuit Court to have been
$5025, and of the personal effects, all of which were a total
loss, to have been $1032. This made a total valuation, according to the findings, of $6057. For this amount a decree had
been entered by the District Court, but on appeal the Circuit
Court awarded the sum of $3028.50, one-half the valuation.
From that decree an appeal was taken to this court by the
libellants.
-Mr. James Parkerfor libellants and appellants.
Xr. J. .McConnell, for appellees, submitted on his brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

court.
VOL. Cxx-V-10

delivered the opinion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Assuming, as we must do, the total value to have been
$6057, the matter in dispute in this court is the difference
between that value and the decree, namely, $3028.50. We
have, therefore, no jurisdiction. Dows v. Johnsot, 110 U. S.
223. On the argument it was urged with much earnestness
on behalf of appellants, that it is within our power, upon the
facts as found, to declare the :Mary and Catherine entirely
and solely in fault, and take away from the libellants what
the Circuit Court awarded them, and that jurisdiction can be
maintained by adding the amount the Circuit Court did not
allow to the amount that it is suggested libellants might thus
be deprived of. But as the claimants did not appeal, and as,
if they had, the worst that could happen to libellants through
our action on such cross appeal, would be the taking away of
less than $5000, the suggestion is entitled to no consideration.
There is nothing in the cases of The Hesper, 122 U. S. 256,
or The Alaska, 130 U. S. 201, to the contrary. In the former,
the District Court awarded $8000, while the Circuit Court
gave only U200, but that was a case of salvage, in which the
value of the property saved was over $100,000, and compensation was sought for the salvage in such sum proportioned to
the value as the court might deem meet and reasonable.
There was no finding of the Circuit Court that bound us, and
in case of reversal a much larger sum than the jurisdictional
amount might have been awarded, in addition to the sum
which was. The difference between the judgments of the
two courts in no respect represented the amount in dispute.
Moreover, that case involved only the .power of the Circuit
Court on appeal, and not that of this court. In the latter
case, the stipulation given to release the vessel libelled was for
the sum of $25,000, for the benefit of five parties, each of
whose claim for damages was $10,000, and some of whom
might recover more than $5000, so that the amount involved
in each case, on the question of jurisdiction, was $10,000,
which was, of course sufficient.
This appeal must be dismissed, and it is so ordered.

