OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

lands within the Indian country was made somewhat in the
nature of a float, to become vested when the Indian title was
extinguished. When the road was definitely located and the
Indian title was extinguished, the land passed to the State
for the benefit of the road. Buttz v. Northern Pacifc Railroad, 119 U. S. 55. The title of the appellant is complete,
and neither the appellee nor the Northern Pacific Railroad
under which he claims ever bad any title to the land in controversy.
It is immaterial that the appellant did not begin its suit at
an earlier date. The decision against it by the Secretary of
the Interior, in 1871, was not binding as to the law of the case,
and the bringing of the suit in 188d: was in time.
Decree reversed, and cause remanded to the Circuit Court
with directions to enter a decree in consonance with this

opinion.

MERRITT v. CAMERON.
ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 84.

Argued November 19, 20,1890.-Decided December 22, 1890.

The ascertainment and liquidation of duties by a collector of customs,
under Rev. Stat. ยง 2931, is the decision of that officer as to what the
duties shall be, made after the measurement, weighing or gauging of the
merchandise, its inspection and appraisal, the determination of its dutiable value, and the taking of such other steps as the law may call for;
and, so far from this being required to be delayed until the importer
chooses to withdraw his goods for consumption, it may take place at
any time after the original entry of the merchandise, and should follow,
in the regular course of business, as soon after the entry as is convenient,
just as in the case of merchandise entered for immediate consumption.
Westray v. United States, 18 Wall. 322, explained.
The ten days referred to in Rev. Stat. ยง 2931, within which an importer is
allowed to protest against the liquidation of duties, begin to run upon
their ascertainment and liquidation.
A construction of a doubtful or ambiguous statute by the Executive Department charged with its execution, in order to be binding upon the courts,
must be long continued and unbroken.

MERRITT v. CAM'
ERON.
Opinion of the Court.

Tuis was an action at law against the collector of custoins
for the port of New York, brought to recover duties alleged
to have been illegally exacted. Verdict for the plaintiffs, and
judgment on the verdict. Defendant sued out this writ of
error. The case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
X3fr. Stephen G. Clarke for defendants in error.
MR~h. JUs o

LAmtAR delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action at law by Donald Cameron and Donald
E. Cameron, composing the firm of Cameron & Co., importers,
against the collector of the port of New York, to recover certain duties alleged to have been illegally exacted on a cargo of
sugar and molasses. The only defence that appears to have
been pleaded was, that the protest of the importers against
such exaction of duties had not been made within ten days
from the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties, as required by section 2931 of the Revised Statutes. The case
was tried before Judge Shipman and a jury, resulting in a verdict and judgment in favor of the importers for the sum of
$1759.84 ; and the collector thereupon sued out a writ of error.
The bill of exceptions, made part of the record, shows the
following undisputed facts: On the 26th of July, 1880, Cameron & Co. imported into the United States at the port of
New York, from Demerara, by the steamer Restless, a cargo
of sugar and molasses, and made entry of the same for warehouse, in bond, under the laws of the United States for the
warehousing of merchandise in bond. The estimated duties
on the whole cargo amounted to $11,195.11; and, pursuant to
law, the importers gave a bond to the' United States, in the
penal sum of $23,000, (about double the amount of the estimated duties,) containing the following condition: "That if,
within one year from the said date of original importation, the
said goods, wares and merchandise shall be regularly and
lawfully withdrawn from public store or bonded warehouse
on payment of the legal duties and charges to which they

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

shall then be subject; or if, after the expiration of one year
and within three years from the said date of original importation, they shall be so withdrawn upon the like payment, with
ten per centum added upon the amount of such duties and
eharges; or if, at any time within three years from the said
date of original importation, they shall be so withdrawn for
actual export beyond the limits of the United States, then the
above obligation to be void; otherwise, to remain in full
force."
On the 4th of August, 1880, the importers withdrew the
sugar from warehouse for consumption, and paid to the collector the sum of $10,913.55 as the estimated duties thereon, and
on account of the duties to be afterwards ascertained and
liquidated by him. The appraisement of both the sugar and
molasses was made on the 6th of August, and on the 20th of
August the collector ascertained and liquidated the duties on
the whole cargo, as imported, fixing them at $12,157.76, and
stamped upon the entry "Liquidated, and notified importer
August 20, 1880." What was meant by "liq u idated," as thus
used, was, that the entry had been passed regularly through
the various divisions of the collector's office, and the duties
thereon had been finally ascertained and fixed by the custom
officials. "Notified importer" meant that the fact of the
liquidation had been stated on a sheet of -paper which was
hung up in the custom-house for the information of the
importer. On the 10th of September, 1880, the importers
withdrew the molasses from the warehouse for consumption,
and paid to the collector the balance of the duties assessed on
the whole cargo, to'wit, $1244.21, of which $327.50 was the
whole amount of the duty on the molasses, and $916.71 was
the balance of the duties assessed on the sugar.
On the 15th of September, 1880, the importers protested in
writing against the exaction of the duties on the sugar as
excessive and illegal, and on the same day appealed from the
decision of the collector to the Secretary of the Treasury. On
the 22d of January, 1881, the Secretary affirmed the collector's decision, and on the 19th of April, 1881, the importers
brought this suit to recover the duties claimed in their protest.

IERRITT v. CAAMERON.
Opinion of the Court.

The evidence introduced by the plaintiffs showed that the
excess of duties paid by them, over and above the legal
duties, including interest on such over-payments, amounted to
$1759.84,. It also showed that where merchandise, all of
which was covered by one bond, was withdrawn from a warehouse, for consumption, in separate quantities, at different
times, the duties paid on the several withdrawals conformed
to the estimated duties on the original entry, except that the
last or final withdrawal was not paid or settled until it was
compared with the warehouse ledger to see whether the correct amount of duties had been paid on the merchandise previously withdrawn. If either too much or too little had been
paid, it was noted on the last withdrawal, and a settlement
was then made on the basis of the duties, as liquidated. The
withdrawal entry of the molasses made September 10, 1880,
bore the endorsement in red ink, "To close, 81244.21 ;" which
endorsement meant that that amount of duties, as liquidated,
was yet due on the original cargo of merchandise covered by
the bond. Evidence was also introduced tending to show that
the practice of the custom-house in New York, and the action
of the collector in the case of the importation in suit, were in
accordance with the following paragraph of Art. 616 of the
general regulations under the custom-house and navigation
laws of the United States, etc., issued by the Treasury Department, January 1, 1874: "Goods withdrawn for consumption
may be taken at average valuation -care being had that on
the last withdrawal the entire balance of duties be collected.
Should the final withdrawal entry be for export or transportation, and there be any difference between the actual duty
and the amount due, to close the sum due on the warehouse
entry, the excess, if any, shall be refunded on the last withdrawal for consumption, and the deficiency, if any, collected
on amendment to the entry."
At the close of the testimony the plaintiffs moved the court
to direct the jury to find a verdict in their favor for the sum
of $1759.84; and the defenlant moved for a verdict in his
favor, on the ground that the protest of the plaintiffs had not
been made within ten days after the ascertainment and liquiVOL. aixxyn-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

dation of the duties assessed by him as collector, as required
by section 2931 of the Revised Statutes. The court denied
the defendant's motion, and granted that of the plaintiffs.
The jury, thereupon, under the direction of the court, found a
verdict for the plaintiffs for the sum above specified; and,
judgment having been entered on the verdict, the defendant
sued out a writ of error, as before stated.
There is but one question in the case, viz. : Was the protest
of the importers made within the titne prescribed by section
2931 of the Revised Statutes? That section reads as follows:
' On the entry of . . . any merchandise, the decision of
the collector of customs at the port of importation and entry,
as to the rate and amount of duties to be paid

.

.

.

on

such merchandise, and the dutiable costs and charges thereon,
shall be final and conclusive against all persons interested
therein, unless . . . the oNvner, importer, consignee or
shall, within ten days after
agent of the merchandise . .

the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties by the proper
officers of the customs, as well in cases of merchandise entered
in bond as for consumption, give notice in writing to the collector on each entry, if dissatisfied with his decision, setting
forth therein, distinctly and specifically, the grounds of his
objection thereto, and shall, within thirty days after the date
of such ascertainment and liquidation, appeal therefrom to the
Secretary of the Treasury."
Inasmuch as the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties
in this case was, in fact, made on the 20th of August, 1880,
and the protest of the importers was not filed until September 15 of the same year, (twenty-six days thereafter,) it would
seem to have been clearly too late under the statute quoted.
The contention of the defendants in error, however, seems to
be that the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties referred
to in section 2931, from which the ten days begin to run,
should have been made, under the law, at the date of the last
or final withdrawal of the merchandise covered by the bond;
and that, as the protest was filed only five days after that
date, it was in time. The decision of this court in TMestray v.
United States, 18 Wall. 322, 329, and the rulings of the Treas-

MERRITT v. CAAMERON.
Opinion of the Court.

ury Department in force at the time the proceedings in this
case took place in the custom-house, are relied on as sustaining
their view.
It is undisputed that from 1876 to May 2, 1885, (which
period embraced the time when the proceedings in this case
took place in the custom-house,) the ruling of the Treasury
Department was, that a protest was in time if made within.
ten days from the last or final withdrawal of the merchandisecovered by the bond. That ruling appears to have been based
upon some expressions found in the opinion of this court delivered by Mr. Justice Strong in Testray's Case, supra, decided
at October term, 1873. But in that case, as appears from an
examination of it, the question as to when the ascertainment
and liquidation of the duties should take place was not involved. The case had reference, it is true, to section 14: of the
act of June 30, 1864, 13 Stat. 214, c. 171, now embodied in
section 2931 of the Revised Statutes, and was a suit by the
United States on a bond given by the importers on the entry
of goods for warehousing conditioned for the payment of the
duties thereafter to be ascertained. The merchandise was
withdrawn for consumption before any ascertainment or
liquidation of the duties had taken place, upon the payment
of the estimated duties. The collector afterwards ascertained
and liquidated the duties, and upon the refusal of the importers to pay the difference between the duties as liquidated
and the duties as estimated at the date of the entry, suit was
bi'ought on the bond, in the name of the United States, torecover that difference. At the trial, the importers offered
to prove that the duties as liquidated were excessive and illegal,
and that they had never received any notice of the liquidation of them by the collector. It was held, however, that the.
law did not require the collector to notify the importer of the
liquidation of the duties, but that the latter was under obligation to take notice of the collector's settlement of the amount
of them; that, as no protest had been made, and no appeal
had been taken to the Secretary of the Treasury, the decision,
of the collector had become final; and that evidence to prove,
that the duties as liquidated were excessive and illegal was

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

not admissible. The language of the opinion which the Treasury Department evidently relied upon as authorizing the
ruling that the withdrawal of the merchandise from the warehouse for onsumption was the liquidation of the entry,
referred to in section 2931 of the Revised Statutes, and which
is relied upon here to sustain the contention of the defendants
in error, is as follows: "The statute, and the Treasury regulations established under it, require that the duties must be
ascertained whenever an entry is made, whether it be for warehousing or for withdrawal. In practice, it is true, the liquidation at the time of entry for warehousing is little more than an
approximate estimate, and it is mainly for the purpose of determining the amount of the bond to be given. It is made, and
the bond is given, before the goods are sent to the warehouse,
or even to the appraisers' stores, and before they are weighed,
gauged or measured. But the importer enters them and
gives the bond the amount of which is regulated by the estimated amount of duties. It is due to his inattention, therefore, if he does not know what that estimate is at the time
when it is made. Equally true is it that he has ample means
of knowledge of the second or correct liquidation- that made
at the time of the withdrawal entry. One of the conditions
of his bond is that he pay the amount of duties to be ascertained under the laws then existing or thereafter enacted. He
is thus informed that there is to be another liquidation, and
that the law requires it to be made at the time when he shall
make his withdrawal entry, and when the duties are required
to be paid."
But in view of the facts in that case the language referred
to can hardly be considered as warranting the view of the
defendants in error; for the withdrawal of the merchandise
in that case occurred before the final liquidation of the duties
thereon, and if the importer be required to protest within ten
days from that date, it might follow that his protest would
have to be made before the actual liquidation had taken place.
That is to say, in order to guard against all contingencies he
would be required to protest against a future liquidation which
might prove to be satisfactory to him in all particulars. Such

MERRITT v. CAMERON.
Opinion of the Court.

a conclusion is not in harmony with the idea and object of
the protest.

True, as held in Davies v. .iller, 130 U. S. 284,

the clause, "within ten days after the ascertainment and
liquidation of the duties," merely fixes the limit beyond which
the'notice of protest shall not be given, and not the first point
of time at which it may be given. That is to say, the notice
of protest may be given before the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties, (as was specifically ruled in that case,) but
it is not required to be given until some time within ten days
after the liquidation.
Indeed, in another part of the same opinion in Westray's
Case, the learned justice used language entirely inconsistent
with the theory of the defendants in error. After stating
that the decision of the collector had become final by reason
of no protest having been made and no appeal having been
taken to the Secretary of the Treasury, he said: "The same
considerations ]ead to the conclusion that the Circuit Court
correctly refused to rule that the ten days prescribed by the
statute, within which notice of dissatisfaction is required to be
given, did not begin to run until notice of the collector's
liquidation was given to the plaintiffs in error, or until they
had knowledge thereof. The limitation of the right to complain or to appeal commences with the date of liquidation,
whenever that is made. No notice is required, but the
importer who makes the entries is under obligation to take
notice of the collector's settlement of the amount of duties."
p. 330. And in the syllabus of the case by the reporter it is
said: "The right of the importer to complain or appeal begins
with the date of the liquidation, whenever that is made."
These quotations abundantly show, we think, that the question as to when the ascertainment and liquidation should take
place was not considered by the court at all, further than that
it should take place some time after the entry of the merchandise for warehouse.
We find nothing in the statutes or in any of the decisions
of this court warranting the construction contended for by the
defendants in error, that the ascertainment and liquidation of
the duties referred to in section 2931 should be made at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

date of the final withdrawal of the merchandise from the
bonded warehouse. On the contrary, we think the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties on merchandise entered in
bond for warehouse should follow, in the regular course of
business, as soon after the entry as is convenient, just qs in
the case of merchandise entered for immediate consumption.
The statutory regulations as to the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties are the same in the one instance as in
the other. The measurement, weighing or gauging of the
anerchandise, the inspection and appraisal of it, and the determination of its dutiable value are required to be proceeded
with exactly the same in each instance. After the ascertainment of those facts in relation to the entry, the collector has
to decide what the duties are in each case. His decision at
that time is the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties
referred to in section 2931; and there would seem to be no
good reason for his delaying that decision in the case of
merchandise entered in bond for warehouse until the convenience of the importer shall suggest the removal of the
merchandis'e from the warehouse.
It is urged, however, that section 2970 of the Revised Stat-utes, when construed it pari materia with section 2931,
leads to the conclusion that the liquidation of the duties on
merchandise entered in bond should be made when the mer.chandise is withdrawn for consumption. We do not think
so. That section is as follows: "Any merchandise deposited
in bond in any public or private bonded warehouse may be
withdrawn for consumption within one year from the date
of original importation on payment of the duties and charges
to which it may be subject by law at the time of such with,drawal; and after the expiration of one year from the date
of original importation, and until the expiration of three years
from such date, any merchandise in bond may be withdrawn
for consumption on payment of the duties assessed on the
original entry and charges, and an additional duty of ten per
centum of the amount of such duties and charges."
In our opinion that section was intended to provide for cases
in which a change in the rate of duty had been made by stat-

MERRITT v. CA]IERON.
Opinion of the Court.

ute while the merchandise was in the bonded warehouse.
.abbri v. -Murphy, 95 U. S. 191; act of March 14, 1866, 14
Stat. 8, c. 17. The first clause of the section means simply
that if there has been a change in the rate of duty after the
merchandise has been entered in bond, and the withdrawal
of the merchandise takes place afterwards, and within one
year from the date of the importation, the duties to be paid
are such as are fixed by the law in force at the date of the
withdrawal. The second clause of section 2970 provides that
if the merchandise remain in the bonded warehouse more than
one year it may be withdrawn for consumption at any time
within three years upon the payment of the duties and charges
assessed upon the original entry, and ten per centum in addition. The phrase "duties assessed on the original entry," etc.,
evidently means the duties on the original entry as finally
ascertained and liquidated, within the meaning of those terms,
as used in section 2931. In either case, if the statute changing
the rate of duties goes into effect after the liquidation of the
,original entry, a reliquidation must necessarily take place.
The two clauses of the section differ in one respect only, viz.,
in a ten per cent increase of duties, where the merchandise
remains in the warehouse more than one year, and is withdrawn within three years from the date of importation. This
construction renders the two sections of the statute harmonious.
Upon a careful examination of the question at issue, we are
of opinion that the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties
upon merchandise entered in bond for warehouse may take
place at any time after the original entry of the merchandise,
and that it is not required to be delayed until the importer
chooses to withdraw his goods for consumption. The ten days
referred to in section 2931, within which the importer is allowed to protest, begin to run upon such ascertainment and
liquidation of the duties; and, therefore, the protest in the
case at bar was too late.
In arriving at this conclusion we are not unmindful of the
fact that the defendants in error made their protest in accordance with the regulations of the Treasury Department in force
at that time. A regulation of a department, however, cannot

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

repeal a statute; neither is a construction of a statute by a
department charged with its execution to be held conclusive
and binding upon the courts of the country, unless such construction has been continuously in force for a long time. The
cases cited go to that extent and no further. In regard to the
law under consideration the construction of it by the Treasury
Department has not been uniform. The construction contended for by defendants in error first arose in 1876 and lasted
only until 1885, since which time the construction has been
the same as ih this decision. There is no such long and uninterrupted acquiescence in a regulation of a department, or
departmental construction of a statute, as will bring the case
within the rule announced at an early day in this court, and
followed in very many cases, to wit, that in case of a doubtful
and ambiguous law the contemporaneous construction of those
who have been called upon to carry it into effect is entitled ta
great respect, and should not be disregarded without the most
cogent and persuasive reasons. Edwards v. Darby, 12 Wheat.
206; United States v. Hill, 120 IU. S. 169, 182; Robertson v.
Downing, 127 U. S. 607, and very many other cases.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is 'eversed, and the case
is remanded to that court, with directions to set aside the
verdict and grant a new trial.
M . JUsTicE BREWE.R dissented from this opinion and judgment, on the ground that the practice of the Department at
the time the proceedings in the custom-house took place, and
the action of the Secretary of the Treasury in the matter of the
protest and appeal, ought to take the case out of what he conceded to be the correct construction of the statute.

