FRENCH v. CARTER.
Statement of the Case.

charged on the one side of his account with the company nor
credited on the other. These accommodation acceptances
were not due on the 28th of February, 1881, and have never
been paid by the company. Graeffe was not bound to give
credit for them to the company until the company had paid
them and surrendered them to him.
As to the three acceptances, amounting to $8000, they
formed part of the acceptances of which the company had
the benefit, and, while the plaintiff holds those acceptances
against Graeffe, it cannot take from him, or from Mrs. Graeffe,
the property which he held as security against them. Its
position is no better than that of the company would have
been, and the companyf could not have deprived Graeffe of the
goods without discharging his obligation on those particular
acceptances. Moreover, even regarding the $8000 of acceptances as surrendered and cancelled, and deducted from the
$54,215.58, there is left $46,215.58, which amount exceeds the
value of the goods transferred to Mrs. Graeffe.
.Decreeaj5Ymed.

FRENCH v. CARTER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No: 63. Argued November 12, 1890.-

Decided November 24,1890.

Letters patent No. 244,224, granted to Hamline Q. French, July 12, 1881,
for an improvement in "roofs for vaults" are invalid, in view of the
state of the art, for want of patentable invention, it requiring only
mechanical skill to pass to the patented device from what existed
before, the question being one of degree only, as to the size of the component stones.
A prior foreign publication is competent as evidence in regard to the state
of the art, and as a foundation for the inquiry whether it required invention to pass from a structure set forth in the publication to the patented
structure.

IN EQurrY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. George H. Fletcher, (with whom was Mr. L.
nell on the brief,) for appellant.
V

. Bun-

Xr. James V. Perry, (with whom was Mr. Philip J.
O'Reilly on the brief,) for appellees.

MR. JusTicE BLATcHaoim delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, by
Hamline Q. French against Oliver S. Carter, George Mark,
and Milton H. St. John, to recover for the infringement of
letters patent No. 2414,224, granted to the plaintiff July 12,
1881, for an improvement in "roofs for vaults." Issue was
joined, proofs were taken, and the case was heard by Judge
Shipman, resulting in a decree dismissing the bill, from which
the plaintiff has appealed. The opinion of Judge Shipman is
reported in 25 Fed. Rep. 41.
The specification, claims, and drawings of the patent are as
follows: "My improvements relate to the construction of roofs
for vaults, mausoleums, and structures of similar character,
built of stone and intended for burial purposes; and the object
of my invention is to obtain a building without vertical joints,
and one held together and locked at the roof, so that by the
locking and the weight of the roof the structure shall be made
as enduring as the material of which it is built. My improved
roof consists of the front and rear gable-stones, the roof-stones,
which are continuous from one gable-stone to the other at
each side, and held to the gable-stones by mortise and tenon
or equivalent connections, and the cap-stone, which is formed
with a rabbet to lap upon the roof-stones and rests upon the
gables, by which construction the stones forming the complete
roof are securely looked, and without possibility of dislocation
without being raised bodily upward.
"My invention is shown in tha accompanying drawings,
forming part of this specification, wherein Fig. 1 is a front
elevation, partially in section, of a vault constructed in accordance with my invention. Fig. 2 is a plan view of the same,

FRENCH v. CARTER.
Opinion of the Court.

2.
2iy.

with the cap-stone partially removed.

Similar letters of refer-

ence indicate corresponding parts. The side walls, a a, of the
vault are laid up in the usual manner. A A are the gablestones, B 1 the roof-stones, and 0 the cap-stone. The gables
A are each a single stone of any required shape and size, and
VOL. cxx-vr-1I6

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of a length safficient to connect the roof-stones. They are
formed, upon each of their upper surfaces, with tenons b. The
roof-stones B are also each of a single piece in length, or
continuous from one gable-stone to the other. These are
formed with mortises for receiving the tenons. The cap-stone
C is a single piece, and of a length to rest upon the gablestones A at its ends. It is formed to lap at each side upon
the stones B, on the whole or any portion of its length. The
stone C is to be lowered to place after the stones B are set,
and, as will be seen, completes the roof and locks the parts
together. This stone C is in practice of great weight, which
weight tends entirely to hold the structure together, and, there
being no vertical joints to spread open, there can be no disruption or displacement by ordinary means. The space at the
sides, between the stones A, is filled out by stones c set upon
the side walls. The roof at each side of the cap-stone is to be
formed of one or more roof-stones B, each being continuous
from one gable-stone to the other, and locked, as described.
The roof may also be made flat, curved, or inclined. In place
of using the mortises and tenons shown, dowel-pins or other
equivalent devices can be used for locking the roof-stones. I
do not limit myself in that respect. Having thus described
my invention, I claim as new and desire to secure by letters
patent-

"1. A roof for vaults and similar structures, consisting of
the continuous roof-stones B B, gable-stones, A, connecting
and locked to the roof-stones, and the cap-stone, C, lapping
upon the roof-stones, substantially as shown and.described.
"2. In roofs for vaults and similar structures, the combination of continuous roof-stones B B and gable-stones A A,
connected and locked by mortises and tenons, or equivalent
devices, substantially as shown and described."
There was put in evidence in the case volume 13, with plates
39 to 44, both inclusive, of a public work, published in France,
in 1855, called "iRevue G6nrale de l'Architecture et de Travaux
Publics," containing a description and illustration of a monument erected in 1847, as a place of burial for the family of
Ale. Billaud. This very imperfect translation of the text is

FRENCH v. CARTER.

243

Opinion of the Court.

found in the record: "Above this ordonnance extends an
entablature, on which is supported the two sloping sides of the
roof, which finish the edifice. . .
. The entablature is
composed of three stones, hollowed out so as to form a species
of vault, which masks the size (6dicule); and these stones
joined together by rebates, are bound, and, as it were, tied
(hooped) together by the two thick slabs of stone which cover
their sloping sides, by means of the hollow made on the lower
sides of the former (the slabs), in order to clamp the projections retained on the stones of the vault. These stones are, in
their turn, tied together by the ridge which surmounts the
building."
Two drawings on one of the plates are as follows, one being
a cross-section and the other a longitudinal section:

OCTOBER TERI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The opinion of the Circuit Court proceeds upon the ground
that, in view of the description of the Billaud tomb, there was
no invention in the patented device, and that in order to produce that device the customary skill of the worker in stone
neither needed nor received any aid from the inventive faculty.
The opinion says: "The difficulty in vault stone roofs which
was to be remedied was the exposed or open seams between
the stones, into which water can enter and become frozen, and
thus, by the action of frost, the stones are separated. Freedom from vertical joints and the locking of roof-stones and
cap-stones to the gable-stones are the features of the improvement.

.

.

.

By the invention described in the second

claim, the difficulty is remedied by connecting, in the ordinary
way, to gable-stones, made of one piece, roof-stones which are
long enough to extend from one gable-stone to the other, and
protecting the seams by rebates, if more than one roof-stone
upon one side of a roof is used, and then filling the space or
ridge near the top of the roof in such manner as ingenuity or
taste may dictate. By the invention described in the first
claim, the space between the roof-stones is filled by a single
massive cap-stone, the edges of which lapped over the roofstones, and which rested upon the gables."
In reference to the description and drawings of the Billaud
tomb, the opinion says: "The plates which are attached to
the description show that the Billaud roof consists of two
sloping roof-stones, each being a single piece, fastened by projections and cavities to gable-stones, each being in one piece,
and a single ridge-stone, covering the joint where the upper
edges of the roof-stones meet, and not resting on the gablestones. The difference between the Billaud roof and the roof
of the patent is, that the roof-stones of the former are so wide
that only a ridge-stone is needed'to cover the joint, while the
roof-stones of the latter are narrower, and a wider ridge-stone
or cap-stone is needed, which must, of course, be interposed
between the roof-stones, and must rest upon the gable. The
ridge-stone of the Billaud tomb is a small cap-stone, which
'bound the roof-stones together, and which covered the joint
made by their edges. The cap-stone of the patent is a larger

WHEELER v. JACKSON.
Syllabus.

and wider ridge-stone than that of Billaud, and, by its great
weight, is more efficient in holding the structure together."
We concur with the Circuit Court in its views. Where the
roof-stones are wider, as in the Billaud roof, there need be
only a narrow ridge-stone, while where the roof-stones axe
narrower, as in the patented device, a wider ridge-stone or
cap-stone is necessary. In the latter case the cap-stone must
rest upon the gable-stones. In the former case it need not do
so. But, in each case, the vertical seam into which water
could enter, is covered, and the structure is held together and
locked at the roof, so as to be made enduring by the locking
and the weight of the roof. The question is one of degree
only, as to the size of the ridge-stone or cap-stone and the corresponding width of the roof-stones. The difference between
mechanical skill and the exercise of the inventive faculty has
been pointed out in many decisions of this court. _Bint v.
Evory, 133 U. S. 349, and cases there cited.
The foreign publication is competent as evidence in regard
to the state of the art, and as a foundation for the inquiry
whether it required invention to pass from the Billaud structure to the patented structure.
Decree afflrmed.

WHEELER v. JACKSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 65. Argued November 11, 1890.-

Decided November 24,1890.

The 15th section of the act of the legislature of New York, approved June
6, 1885, provides that no action or special proceeding shall thereafter be
maintained against the city of Brooklyn, or the Registrar of Arrears of
that city, to compel the execution or delivery of a lease upon any sale
for taxes, assessments or water rates, made more than eight years prior
to the above date, unless commenced within six months after that date,
and notice thereof filed in the office of the Registrar of Arrears; also,
that that officer shall, upon the expiration of such six months, cancel in
his office all sales made more than eight years before the passage of the
act, upon which no lease had been given, and no action commenced and

