OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

teenth Amendment undoubtedly forbids any arbitrary depri-

vation of life, liberty or property, and in the administration of
criminal justice requires that no different or higher punishment
shall be imposed on one than is imposed on all for like offences,
but it was not designed to interfere with the power of the
State to protect the lives, liberty and property of its citizens;
nor with the exercise of that power in the adjudications of the
courts of a State in administering the process provided by the
law of the State. The Supreme Court of Michigan did not
exceed its jurisdiction or deliver a judgment abridging appellant's privileges or immunities or depriving him of the law of
the land of his domicil. Atrrowsmith v. Hdrmoning, 118 U. S.
194; Baldwin v. Kasaas, 129 U. S. 52; ITn Pe XEemmler, 136
U. S. 436.

Judgment afflrmed.
IRED RIVER CATTLE COMPA.NY v. NEEDTAM.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE,

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 1362.

Submitted December 15, 1890.-

Decided January 5, 1891,

When the demand in controversy is not for money, but the nature of the
action requires the value of the thing demanded to be stated in the
pleadings, affidavits will not be received here to vary the value as appearing in the face of the record.
The filing of affidavits as to value will not ordinarily be permitted where
evidence of value has been adduced below on both sides, and the proofs
have been transmitted, either with or without the announcement of a
definite conclusion deduced therefrom.
Where a writ of error is brought, or an appeal taken, without question as
to the value, and the latter is nowhere disclosed by the record, affidavits
may be received to establish the jurisdictional amount, and counter affidavits may be allowed if the existence of such value is denied in good
faith.
If there be a real controversy as to the value of the demand in controversy,
it should be settled below in the first instance, and on due notice; not
here upon exparte opinions.
The value of the property in dispute in this case was alleged in the petition,
but was not an issuable fact. The Circuit Court allowed the writ of
error on the prima facie showing made by the defendant. The plaintiffs

RED RIVER CATTLE CO. v. NEEDHAM.
Opinion of the Court.
subsequently presented evidence to the contrary, but that court declined
to decide the controversy and referred it to this court. Held,
(1) That, under such circumstances it was not proper to allow affidavits
as to value to be filed here;
(2) That the jurisdictional value was not made out by a preponderance
of evidence.

MOTION TO DmssS.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mrb. W. Hallett Phillipsfor the motion.
f21h. Sawnie Robertson opposing.

MR. CHEF JusTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was an action of trespass to try title, brought by Needham and others against the Red River Cattle Company in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Texas.
The petition alleged the land to be of the reasonable value
of $4400. Defendant pleaded not guilty and the statute of
limitations. A verdict was rendered in favor of plaintiffs for
an undivided one-half interest in the land sued for, and judgment was entered thereon January 24,.1890. A motion for
new trial was overruled on the 10th of February, and on that
day the defendant filed three affidavits, tending to show that
the half interest had a value in excess of $5000, whereupon a
writ of error was allowed.
On the 22d of February, plaintiffs filed a motion to set aside
the allowance of the writ of error, (stating want of notice of
the application for it,) accompanied by four affidavits and a
letter from the county where the land was situated, tending to
establish that the value of one-half was far less than $5000,
upon which the Circuit Court entered the following order:
"On this day came on to be heard the motion of the plaintiffs
to set aside the writ of error granted herein; and the court
having heard and considered said motion, and being of the
opinion that the question of the value of the land in controversy is a question that the trial judge is not called upon to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

decide, but one to be determined in the Supreme Court on the
affidavits if they see fit to consider them, in order to determine
their jurisdiction, it is ordered by the court that said motion
be refused."
The record having been filed in this court, and notice of a
motion to dismiss given, plaintiff in error, without leave first
obtained, submits, with its brief upon the motion, eight additional affidavits in reference to value, and defendants in error
ask that if these are considered, time may be given to them to
produce counter affidavits.
As stated by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, in Richmond v. Milwaukee, 21 How. 391, in cases in which the value does not,
according to the usual forms of proceeding, appear in the
pleadings or evidence in the record, affidavits have been
received to show that the value is large enough to give jurisdiction to this court; Course v. Stead et ux., 4 Dall. 22; Williamson v. J-incaid, 4 Dall. 19; but "in Busk v. Parker,5
Cranch, 257, Mr. Justice Livingston expressed his opinion
strongly against giving time to file affidavits of value, and the
court refused to continue the case for that purpose." And
the Chief Justice added that a practice to postpone or reinstate a case in order to give the party time to furnish such
affidavits "would be irregular and inconvenient, and might
sometimes produce conflicting affidavits, and bring on a controversy about value occupying as much of the time of the
court as the merits of the case." The rule was then declared
that "where the value is stated in the pleadings or proceedings
of the court below, affidavits here have never been received to
vary it or enhance it, in order to give jurisdiction."
In Yalkington v. .Dumbleton, 123 U. S. 745, it was accordingly held that when the value of the property in dispute was
necessarily involved in the determination of the case in the
court below, this court would not, on a motion to dismiss for
want of jurisdiction, consider affidavits tending to contradict
the finding of that court in that respect; and Ar. Chief Justice Waite remarked: "In Zeigler v. Hopkins, 117 U. S. 683,
689, where affidavits were submitted, the finding of the court
below as to value was not a material question in the case upon

RED RIVER CATTLE -CO. v. NEEDHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

its merits, but was more in the nature of an inquiry for the
purpose of determining whether an appeal should be allowed,
as in Wilson v. Blair, 119 U. S. 387. Hlere, however, the
value of the property was one of the questions in the case
and necessarily involved in its determination."
In Zeigler v. -Hoplns,this court treated the finding of the
court below upon the question of value as entitled to wellnigh conclusive weight; while in Wilson v. Blair, it was
declared to be good practice for the Circuit Court to allow
affidavits and counter affidavits of value to be filed, as calculated to save trouble to the parties and to the court. There,
as in the case at bar, the district judge holding the Circuit
Court, without the formality of deciding the question of value,
allowed the writ of error, thus sending the case here on the
affidavits free from any decision whatever as to their effect.
In Gage v. Pumpelly, 108 U. S. 164, the appeal was allowed
after a contest as to the value of the matter in dispute, Judge
Blodgett, who held the Circuit Court, filing an opinion upon
the question; and Mtir. Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the
court, said: "When an appeal has been allowed, after a contest as to the value of the matter in dispute, and there is
evidence in the record which sustains our jurisdiction, the
appeal will not be dismissed simply because upon examination
of all the affidavits we maybe of the opinion that possibly the
estimates acted upon below were too high."
The result of the cases may be fairly stated to be: (1)
Where the demand is not for money but the nature of the
action requires the value of the thing demanded to be stated
in the pleadings, affidavits will not be received here to vary
the value as appearing upon the face of the record; (2) nor
will the filing of such affidavits be ordinarily permitted where
evidence of value has been adduced below on both sides, and
the proofs have been transmitted either with or without the
announcement of a definitive conclusion deduced therefrom;
(3) but where the writ of error is brought or appeal taken
without question as to the value, and the latter is nowhere
disclosed by the record, affidavits may be received to establish
the jurisdictional amount, and counter affidavits may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

allowed if the existence of such value is denied in good
faith.
The practice of permitting affidavits to be filed in this court
arose from instances of accidental omission, where the value
was not really in dispute, and it should not be encouraged to
the extent of requiring us to reach a result upon that careful
weighing of conflicting evidence, so frequently involved in
determining issues of fact. If there be a real controversy on
the point, let it be settled below in the first instance and on due
notice; not here, upon ex par'te opinions, which may embody
nothing more than speculative conclusions.
In the case in hand, the value of the whole property was
alleged in the petition, but was not an issuable fact, and the
Circuit Court allowed the writ of error upon the prim facie
showing made by the defendant, and on plaintiff's subsequently
presenting evidence to the contrary, the controversy was
referred to this court. This being the attitude of the case, we
do not think it proper to allow affidavits to be filed here as if
the question were now raised for the first time. Upon an
examination of the record as returned, we are clear that the
jurisdictional value is not made out by a preponderance of evidence. The motion to dismiss will, therefore, be sustained.
Wr'it of error dismissed.

UNITED STATES ex rel. REDFIELD v. WINDOM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TEE DISTRICT OF COLUMhBIA.
No. 1301. Argued December 18, 1890.-Decided January 12, 1891.

Cases cited in which it has been decided that a person holding public office
may be compelled by writ of mandamus to perform the duties imposed
upon him by law.
When the duty which the court is asked to enforce by mandamus is plainly
ministerial, and the right of the party applying for the writ is clear, and
he is without other adequate remedy, the writ may issue ; but, where the
effect of the writ is to discharge or control the head of an Executive
Department in the discharge of a duty involving the exercise of judgment or discretion, it should not issue.

