OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

been filed by one creditor in his own behalf only, and the case
does not fall under that class in which creditors, who might
have sued severally, join in one bill for convenience and to
save expense. This court, therefore, has jurisdiction of the
whole appeal, according to the rule affirmed in Gibson v. 2hufeldt, 122 U. S. 27, and the cases there collected.
Arotion to dismiss appeal overruled, and jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court sustained.

HAMILTON v. HOME INSURANCE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITITED STATES FOR TIHE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 98. Argued December 1, 2, 1890. -Decided

December 15, 1890.

A provision in a policy of fire insurance, that " in case differences shall
arise touching any loss or damage, after proof thereof has been received
in due form, the matter shall, at the written request of either party, be
submitted to impartial arbitrators, whose award in writing shall be
binding on the parties as to the amount of such loss or damage, but shall
not decide the liability of the company under this policy," cannot be
pleaded in bar of an action on the policy, unless the policy further provides that no such action shall be brought until after an award.

TIs was an action, brought June 26, 1886, upon a policy
of insurance, numbered 3190, by which the Home Insurance
Company of New York insured Robert Hamilton for one year
from February 23, 1886, on a stock of tobacco in his warehouse at 413 and 415 'adison
Street in Covington in the
State of Kentucky, against loss or damage by fire to the
amount of $5000, "to be paid sixty days after due notice and
proofs of the same shall have been made by the assured and
received at the office of the company in New York."
The policy, after providing that in case of loss the assured
should forthwith give notice, and as soon afterwards as possible furnish proofs of loss, with a magistrate's certificate, submit to examination on oath, and produce books and vouchers,

JIAAILTON v. HOIE INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

and copies of lost books and invoices, further provided, among
other things, as follows:
"When personal property is damaged, the assured shall
forthwith cause it to be put in order, assorting and arranging
the various articles according to their kinds, separating the
damaged from the undamaged, and shall cause an inventory
to be made and furnished to the company of the whole, naming the quantity, quality and cost of each article. The amount
of sound value and of damage shall then be ascertained by
appraisal of each article by competent persons (not interested
in the loss as creditors or otherwise, nor related to the assured
or sufferers) to be mutually appointed by the assured and the
company, their report in writing to be made under oath before
any magistrate or other properly commissioned person, onehalf of the appraiser's fees to be paid by the assured. The
company reserves the right to take the whole or any part of
the articles at their appraised value; and until such proofs,
declarations and certificates are produced, and examinations
and appraisals permitted by the claimant, the loss shall not be
payable."
"But provided, in case differences shall arise touching any
loss or damage, after proof thereof has been received in due
form, the matter shall, at the written request of either party,
be submitted to impartial arbitrators, whose award in writing
shall be binding on the parties as to the amount of such loss
or damage, but shall not decide the liability of the company
under this policy."
"And it is hereby understood and agreed by and between
this company and the assured that this policy is made and
accepted in reference to the foregoing terms and conditions,
and to the classes of hazards and memoranda printed on the
back of this policy, which are hereby declared to be a part of
this contract, and are to be used and resorted to in order to
determine the rights and obligations of the parties hereto in
all cases not herein otherwise specially provided for in writing."
The answer admitted the execution of the policy, and notice
of loss; put in issue the amount of loss; denied that the plain-

372 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

tiff ever delivered due proofs of loss, or had performed the
conditions of the policy on his part; and, after reciting the
substance of the provisions above quoted, alleged as follows:
"And the defendant says that differences having arisen
touching the loss and damage sustained by said plaintiff under
said policy and the amount thereof, the plaintiff claiming a
loss of $40,000, and the defendant claiming and believing that
it was slight and but a very small part of said sum, and being
unable to agree upon the amount of said loss, this defendant
requested and demanded in writing that the amount of such
loss and damage should be submitted to and ascertained and
determined by impartial arbitrators, whose award in writing
should be binding upon the parties as to the amount of loss or
damage, but should not decide the liability of the company
under said policy.
"And the said defendant further says that the plaintiff
wholly disregarded the terms and conditions of said policy in
that respect, and neglected and refused to have such arbitration, and refused to choose or submit to arbitrators chosen in
accordance with the terms and provisions of said policy the
amount of the loss or damage by fire to the property covered
by said policy, and refused to be governed in the ascertainment of said loss by any of the terms and conditions of said
policy, and, against the protest of the defendant, proceeded to
and did sell all of said property at auction. An arbitration
and the ascertainment of the said loss thereby, as provided in
said policy, became impossible, and this defendant was deprived
of its rights and privileges under said policy with respect to
said property and the appraisement thereof.
"This defendant further says that the damage done to the
property insured was of such a nature as to requim a careful
and scrutinizing examination to ascertain the injury thereto
and loss thereon, and that an appraisement by arbitrators, as
required by the terms and conditions of said policy, was of
the greatest importance to the defendant, and the only means
under said policy whereby the exact amount of damage and
injury sustained by said plaintiff upon said property could be
determined; and the said plaintiff, by the sale of said prop-

HAMILTON v. HOME INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

erty, and in disregarding the terms and conditions of said
policy in that respect, wholly deprived this defendant of the
right to an arbitration, as provided in said policy, and all
other rights in respect to the property so injured or damaged
by said fire.
"The defendant further says that by reason of the failure
and refusal of said plaintiff to agree upon arbitrators to determine the amount of the loss and damage so sustained as aforesaid, and his refusal to submit the amount of such loss to
arbitration in accordance with the plain terms and provisions
of said policy, and the sale of said property so injured as
aforesaid against the written protest of the defendant, the
said plaintiff is not entitled to recover in this action, nor to
have or maintain this action against the said defendant."
The plaintiff filed a replication, denying these allegations of
the answer.
At the trial, the plaintiff introduced evidence tending to
prove a loss or damage by fire on April 16, 1886, to the
amount of the insurance, and the delivery of proofs of loss in
accordance with the policy, and put in evidence a policy of
the Liverpool, London and Globe Insurance Company on the
same property; the defendant introduced evidence tending to
prove that the amount of loss or damage was less; and there
was put in evidence a correspondence in writing between the
parties or their authorized agents at Cincinnati, the material
parts of which were as follows:
April 26, 1886. Plaintiff to defendant. "I enclose proof
of loss under policy of your company, with invoice attached,
in compliance with the requirements of the policy. If there
is anything defective in the substance or form of the above
proof, please advise me thereof at once that I may perfect the
same to your satisfaction, and return the proof to me in such
case for that purpose. The property described and damaged
has been invoiced and arranged, and is ready for examination
by your company. Such examination must be made at once,
for the reason that I am obliged to occupy the premises in the
prosecution of my business, and each day of delay involves
considerable loss and expense to me. As before advised, I

OCTOBER TEM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

propose to send the entire stock to be sold at public auction in
a few days, whereof I will give you notice. It can be readily
inspected in a short time where it now lies."
April 27, 1886. Defendant to plaintiff.* "Received of Robert Hlamilton papers purporting to be proofs of loss under
Home Insurance policy No. 3190."
April 28, 1886. Defendant and other insurance companies
to plaintiff. "The undersigned, representing the several insurance companies against which you have made claim for loss
under their respective policies of insurance upon stock in your
tobacco factory, Nos. 413 and 415 Madison street, Covington,
Ky., claimed to have been damaged by fire on April 16, 1886,
beg leave jointly to take exception to the amount of claim
made, and to demand that the question of the value of and
the loss upon the stock be submitted to competent and disinterested persons, chosen as provided for in the several policies
of insurance under which claim is made; and we hereby announce our readiness to proceed at once with this appraisement, so soon as your agreement to the demand is declared.
We further desire jointly to protest against the removal, sale
or other disposition of the property until such an appraisement has been had, and to notify you that the insuring companies will in no way be bound by such exparte action."
April 29, 1886. Plaintiff's counsel to defendant and other
insurance companies. "M r. Hamilton is not endeavoring to
obtain any unfair advantage or unfair adjustment of his loss
against the companies. He had believed that, in view of the
fact that the traffic in tobacco is so large in this city, and substantially all of it, at least ninety-nine per cent of the leaf
tobacco business, is transacted by sale at public auction, that
a sale of this tobacco presented the fairest mode of ascertaining its actual value as it stands. It is in substance and effect
an appraisement in detail of every package by the entire trade
in this city. But in view of the fact that the insurers seem to
demand arbitration by arbitrators, and that you propose to
select a competent person, which we understand to mean a
man acquainted with the manufacture of tobacco, to act as
arbitrator in your behalf, Mr. Hamilton will accede to your

HAtxIILTON v. HOME INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

proposition, upon the express understanding that the arbitrators selected shall have a full opportunity to examine the
stock of tobacco, and that it shall then be sold at public auction, in order that its value thus ascertained, together with
such other evidence as either party may desire to offer, may
be presented to the arbitrators before they make their award."
" If the proposed arbitration is satisfactory, will you at once
inform me of the arbitrator selected by you and submit to me
the form of agreement for arbitration which you propose?
Mr. Hamilton will do the like in respect to the arbitrator
selected by him."
April 30, 1886. Defendant and other insurance companies
to plaintiff's counsel. "We must insist upon arbitration, in
accordance with the terms of our several contracts, without
importing into it any conditions as to the sale of the property.
Such conditions would be incompatible with the provisions of
our several policies of insurance and the rights of the insuring
companies thereunder. As soon as Mr. Hamilton indicates
his readiness to proceed with the arbitration called for, we
will submit the name of an arbitrator, and also a form of
agreement for arbitration."
April 30, 1886. Plaintiff's counsel to insurance companies.
"Mr. Hamilton, and I in his behalf, deny that the arbitration
in the manner indicated is in violation of the terms of any of
the policies, or imports any condition into it which the insured
is not entitled to insist upon, or which is incompatible with
the provisions of the several policies of insurance, or the rights
of the insurance companies thereunder. Mr. Hamilton is
ready, and has directed to me to express his readiness, to proceed at once with an arbitration which, as he understands it,
is in substantial compliance with the arbitration provided for
in all the several policies; but they are not alike in their provisions upon this subject of arbitration, and a literal compliance with some of them would be inconsistent with a literal
compliance with others. The only way, as it seems to me,
that Mr. Hamilton, or I in his behalf, can determine whether
what you call the 'arbitration called for' is what Mr. Hamilton understands to be the 'arbitration called for' and is will-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

ing to accede to, is for you to indicate what you understand
the arbitration called for to be, by submitting a form of agreement for arbitration, or in some other mode indicating the
specific terms of the arbitration which you have demanded.
I wish to say that, as I understand the expression in my letter
of the 29th, that ' it' (the tobacco) ' shall then be sold at public auction, in order that its value thus ascertained, together
with such other evidence as either party ihay desire to offer,
may be presented to the arbitrators before they may make
their award,' does not in any wise call upon the companies to
consent to a sale of the property. Mr. Hamilton is quite ready
to take upon himself the responsibility of selling it. It simply
requires that the arbitration shall be commenced before the
sale, when the arbitrators may have an opportunity of examining the property, and that the award shall not be made until
after the sale has taken place, and the assured has had an
opportunity to submit the result of it, with other competent
evidence, to the arbitrators before the award is made."
May 3, 1886. Insurance companies to plaintiff's counsel.
In compliance with the request in your letter of April 30th,
addressed to the companies insuring Robert Hamilton, we
herewith enclose a form of agreement for 'submission to
appraisers,' which is in practical accordance with the conditions of the policies of the several companies, and which all
the companies are willing to sign. and abide by the award
reached thereunder. We must again decline to entertain your
proposition that the arbitrators, after examining the stock, shall
postpone their award until after the stock shall have been sold,
when the result of such sale, with other evidence, shall be submitted to the arbitrators. We insist that the arbitration provided for in such case by our policies is in no sense a court for
the hearing of evidence. The appraisers may, in their discretion, seek any evidence they deem necessary for their own full
information and the forming of their own judgments as to the
value and damage of the goods. But we insist that under the
conditions of the several policies there can be no abandonment
of the stock to the companies, and that after an award has
been reached the companies have the right to take the stock,

HAMILTON v. H0 E INS. CO.

377

Statement of the Case.

in whole or in part, at the appraised value. The companies
propose to stand upon the conditions of their policies, and
decline all propositions looking to a waiver thereof, or adding
new and inconsistent conditions thereto."
The principal part of the form of "submission to appraisers," enclosed in this letter, was as follows: "It is hereby
agreed by Robert Hamilton, of the first part, and the several
insurance companies, by their representatives, whose names
are hereunto affixed, of the second part, that and
shall appraise and estimate the loss by fire of April
__

16, 1886, upon the property of Robert Hamilton, as specified
below and as hereinafter provided. In case of disagreement,
said appraisers shall select a third, who shall act with them in
matters of difference only. The award of said appraisers or
any two of them, made in writing in accordance with this
agreement, pursuant to the terms of the policies, shall be binding upon both parties; but it is understood that this agreement and appraisement are only for the purpose of fixing the
sound value of the property immediately before the fire and
the loss or damage thereon occasioned by said fire, and shall
not waive, invalidate or terminate the right of the insurers to
take said property at its appraised value, or any other rights
of either party hereto, but the same are to be construed solely
by reference to said policies."
Mlay 4, 1886. Plaintiff's counsel to insurance companies.
"There can be no misunderstanding as to the position taken
by the companies and the assured in this matter. 1st. I
understand the companies demand that appraisers be selected
by the companies and the assured, who shall estimate the loss
bY their own judgment and without hearing the testimony of
witnesses who may be called by either party, and that the
parties shall be bound by their report or award as to the
amount of the loss thus made. This Mr. Hamilton declines to
do. 2d. Mr. Hamilton is willing that the companies jointly,
or as they may arrange between themselves, shall make their
own appraisement through their own appraisers of the value
of the stock, and that they shall jointly, or either of them,
with the consent of the rest, have the right to take the stock,

. 78

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

in whole or in part, at their appraisal. 3d. Mr. Hamilton has
made and makes no claim to abandon the property, and he
has made and makes no claim that the companies shall consent to the sale by him of the damaged stock."
Enclosed in this letter, and signed by the plaintiff's counsel,
was the following: "To the Liverpool and London and Globe
Insurance Company and the companies jointly acting with it
in respect to the loss sustained by Robert Hamilton on the
property in Nos. 413 and 415 Madison street, Covington, Ky.
Mr. Hamilton demands of the several insurance companies an
arbitration of the amount of the loss sustained upon the goods
covered by fire on the 16th day of April, and will select an
arbitrator to represent him in pursuance of the provisions of
the policy, it being stipulated in the agreement for arbitration
that the several companies and the assured shall be duly notified of the time of the hearing by the arbitrators, and that the
arbitrators shall hear all competent legal testimony that may
be offered by either party, as well as personally examine the
damaged goods, in considering and awarding the amount d
the loss."May 5, 1886. Insurance companies to plaintiff's counsel.
"Your communication of the 4th is at hand. We have nothing to add to our letter of the 3d; and if, as we are made to
understand, Mr. Hamilton declines to consent to a form of
' submission to appraisers' that does not provide for the introduction of ' all competent legal testimony that may be offered
by either party' (under which provision, as you have repeatedly declared, Mr. Bamilton would seek to present evidence based on a sale of the property,) we must accept your
communication as a refusal to comply with our request and
with the conditions of the policies of insurance, which are
clearly incompatible with your wishes in the matter."
May 7, 1886.

Insurance companies to plaintiff's counsel:

"Referring to your letter of the 4th, setting forth your understanding of the position taken by the two parties, permit me,
on behalf of the companies, to take exceptions to your first
statement, to wit: 'I understand the companies demand that
appraisers be selected by the companies and the assured, who

HAMILTON v. HOMRE INS. CO.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

shall estimate the loss by their own judgment and without
hearing the testimony of witnesses who may be called by
either party, and that the parties shall be bound by their
report or award as to the amount of the loss thus made.' This
does not correctly state our position, which remains now as
stated in our communication of the 3d, to wit: 'The appraisers may, at their discretion, seek any evidence they deem necessary for their own full information.' What we do object to
and protest against is the sale of the goods, or the consideration by the appraisers of evidence founded on that fact or
result. If the form of 'submission to appraisers' we submitted
contains any provision or condition limiting or defining the
duties of the appraisers and not prescribed by the several policies, each company will submit its own form, as we desire and
demand a submission free from any conditions imposed by
either party."
The plaintiff also gave in evidence a letter from his counsel
to the Liverpool, London and Globe Insurance Company,
dated May 20, 1886, enclosing a notice in a newspaper of the
day before of a sale by auction to be had on Mlay 29, 1886, at
the plaintiff's warehouse in Covington, of the tobacco insured
by the policy in suit.
Upon this evidence, the court instructed the jury that, on
the issues joined on the special defences in the answer, the
plaintiff could not recover, and that they should return a verdict for the defendant. The plaintiff tendered a bill of exceptions to these instructions, and, after verdict and judgment for
the defendant, sued out this writ of error.
.M>. Joseph Wilby and .A&. E.
error.

F K.ittredge for plaintiff in

-Mr'. C~tanning Richards for defendant in error. .Mr.
Thonas B. Paxton and .fr. C0tarles H. Stephens were with
him on the brief.
The correspondence in the record discloses that the defendant requested that the amount of loss or damage should be

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

submitted to appraisers in accordance with the terms of the
policy, and that the plaintiff refused to do so unless the defendant would consent in advance to define the legal powers
and duties of the appraisers or arbitrators, which (as the court
held in Hamilton v. Liverpool, -London & Globe Jn . Co., 136
U. S. 242), defendant was under no obligation to do. And it
likewise discloses the determination of the assured to dispose
of the property, at public sale, regardless of the Company's
rights under the policy, so that the result of such forced sale
might be used as evidence of the extent of his loss; and that
he was determined not to submit to an appraisal or arbitration
except on terms that would admit of such a course. This, the
court held in the case against the Liverpool and London and
Globe Insurance Company, was in effect a refusal by plaintiff
to permit an appraisal in accordance with the terms of the
policy, and fatal to his action.
An effort is made here, as was done below, to distinguish
the policies in the two cases, and to claim that the determination of the amount of loss or damage as provided in the policy
of the defendant company is not made a condition precedent
to recovery, as it was in the policy of the Liverpool and London and Globe Insurance Company.
It is true that the express provision in the policy of the
Liverpool and London and Globe Company, that no action
should be sustainable against the company upon the policy
until after an award had been obtained fixing the amount of
the claim as provided in the policy, is not found in this policy;
but we submit, that upon a fair construction of the contract it
is none the less a condition precedent to recovery in this case.
In the case of Scott v. Avery, 5 H. L. Gas. 811, which is the
leading case in support of such conditions, the Lord Chancellor
says that it is a question of construction whether by the terms
of the contract any right of action exists until the amount of
damage has been ascertained in a specified mode; and if the
meaning of the parties was that the amount to be recovered
should only be such a sum as should be determined by arbitration, in case of disagreement, then such ascertainment of the
amount is a condition precedent to recovery. And he adds, if

HAMILTON v. HOME INS. CO.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

that was their meaning, the circumstance that they have not
stated that meaning in the clearest terms, or in the most
artistic form, is a matter utterly unimportant.
In that case, it is true there was an express provision that
no action should be brought until the amount of the loss had
been determined by arbitration - being substantially the same
language as that contained in the policy of the Liverpool and
London and Globe Insurance Company: but there was no such
provision in the policies involved in Elliott v. Royal Ec-hanqe
In,?. Co., L. R. 2 Ex. 237, and Biaunsteinv. Accidental Death
Co., 1 B. & S. 782; in both of -which the decision of Scott v.
Ave'y was followed.
In several American cases also the policies did not expressly
provide that no suit should be brought until ascertainment of
the amount of loss or damage; yet an appraisal or arbitration
was held to be a condition precedent to recovery. Blall v.
3oifolk Fire Ins. Co., 57 Connecticut, 105, 114; a8ucelito D2y
Dock Co. v. Commercial Union Assurance Co., 66 California,
253. In the latter case the policy was almost identical with
the policy of the Royal Exchange Company. In Holmes v.
Rictet, 56 California, 307, and also in Delaware & Hudson
Canal Co. v. Penn.wjlvania Coal Co., 50 N. Y. 250, Scott v.
Aeeiy was followed, and held to be decisive.
In some cases, several of which are cited in the brief filed on
behalf of the plaintiff in error, it has been held that the mere
provision in policies of insurance for an appraisement or arbitration was an independent covenant, and did not constitute
a condition precedent to recovery upon the policy, but it was
recognized as a question of the proper construction of each
policy; and in every such case the policy differed materially
from the policy of the defendant company involved in this case.
Thus, in Reed v. Washington Insurance Co., 138 Mass. 572,
the court held it to be a question of construction whether an
appraisal of value, or an award of the amount of damages, is
a condition precedent to a right of action, and distinguished
the policy under consideration in that case from those involved
in Scott v. Avery, Elliott v. The Royal Bxchange Co., Braunstein, v. The Accidental Death Co., and other cases, finding

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Argument for Defendant in Error,

that the agreement for arbitration was distinct from the promise to pay the loss, and from the provision for a statement by
the assured, which was a condition of the promise.
The policy of the defendant company expressly stipulates
that it is made and accepted in reference to certain terms and
conditions, which are declared to be a part of the contract,
and are to be used and resorted to in order to determine the
rights and obligations of the parties in all cases not otherwise
specially provided for in writing. One of these conditions
provides for the submission of differences touching any loss or
damage to arbitration, and makes the award binding on the
parties. Such language is alone sufficient, under the rules of
construction applied in the various cases already cited, to
make it incumbent on the.plaintiff to show that the amount
of his loss or damage has been thus determined, or that the
failure has been through no fault of his.
As no action can be maintained until the loss is payable, an
appraisal is made a condition precedent to an action as clearly
as by the language employed in the policy of the Liverpool,
London and Globe Company, and much more clearly than in
the other policies and contracts involved in the cases above
referred to. In this it resembles the policy involved in Scottish
Union Ins. Company v. Clancey, 71 Texas, 5, which provided
that loss or damage, unless the amount was agreed on, should
be appraised by disinterested and competent persons, and the
award of any two in writing should be binding and conclusive as to the amount; that the report of the appraisers in
writing, under oath, should form a part of the proofs of loss;
and that until such proofs were produced and an appraisal
permitted, the loss sustained should not be payable. The
court held that, in the absence of fraud, accident or mistake,
the parties having agreed that the amount of loss should be
determined in a particular way, such stipulation was valid;
and as the contract required that the report of the appraisement of the loss should be made a part of the proofs of loss,
and that the loss should not be payable until after such proofs
were furnished, that such appraisement and proofs of loss were
conditions precedent to right of action by the assured.

H1AMAlILTON v. HOME INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

JUSTic- GRAY, after stating the case as above, deliv-

ered the opinion of the court.
This case resembles in some aspects that of Hamilton, v.
.iveepool, London & Globe Ins. Co., 136 U. S. 242, decided at
the last term, but it is essentially different in important and
controlling elements.
In that case, the effect of the provisions of the policy, by
reason of which it was held that the assured, having refused
to submit to the appraisal and award provided for, could not
maintain his action, was thus stated by the court: "The conditions of the policy in suit clearly and unequivocally manifest the intention and agreement of the parties to the contract
of insurance that any difference arising between them as to
the amount of loss or damage of the property insured shall
be submitted, at the request in writing of either .party, to the
appraisal of competent and impartial persons, to be chosen as
therein provided, whose award shall be conclusive as to the
amount of such loss or damage only, and shall not determine
the question of the liability of the company; that the company shall have the right to take the whole or any part of the
property at its appraised value so ascertained ; and that until
such an appraisal shall have been permitted, and such an
award obtained, the loss shall not be payable, and no action
shall lie against the company. The appraisal, when requested
in writing by either party, is distinctly made a condition precedent to the payment of any loss, and to the maintenance of
any action." 136 U. S. 254, 255.
That policy looked to a single appraisal and award, to be
made as one thing and by one board of appraisers or arbitrators, whenever any difference should arise between the parties,
and to be binding and conclusive as to the amount of the loss,
although not to determine the question of the liability of the
company; and the policy contained, not only a provision that
until such an appraisal the loss should not be payable, but an
express condition that no action upon the policy should be
sustainable in any court until after such an award.
In the case now before us, on the other hand, the appraisal

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and the award are distinct things, and to take place at separate times, and the effect assigned to each is quite different
from that given to the appraisal and award in the other policy.
The "appraisal," without which the loss is not payable, is
required to be made, not merely when differences arise as to
its amount, but in all cases, and results in a mer3 "report
in writing," which is not declared to be binding upon the parties in any respect, and is in truth but a part of the proofs of
loss. It is only by a separate and independent provision, and
when differences arise touching any loss "after proof thereof
has been received in due form," that the matter is required, at
the request of either party, to be submitted to "arbitrators,
whose award in writing shall be binding on the parties as to
the amount of such loss, but shall not decide the liability of
this company under the policy ;" and there is no provision
whatever postponing the right to sue until after an award.
The special defences set up, with some tautology and surplusage, in the answer, reduce themselves, when scrutinized,
to a single one, the plaintiff's refusal to submit to an award of
arbitrators, as provided in the policy. This appears by the
general frame of the answer, and by its speaking of the award
as "' an arbitration and the ascertainment of the said loss
thereby" and as "an appraisement by arbitrators," as well as
by the distinct averments that the defendant requested and
the plaintiff declined a submission to arbitration, and by the
omission of any specific allegation that the plaintiff neglected
to procure a report of appraisers.
The evidence introduced at the trial was to the same effect.
Proofs of loss, sent by the plaintiff to the defendant, with a
request that any defects in substance or form might be pointed
out so that he might perfect the proofs to the defendant's satisfaction, were received by the defendant, without then or
afterwards objecting to their form or sufficiency. The subsequent correspondence between the parties was evidently
influenced in form by embracing insurances in different companies under policies with various provisions; but, as applied
to the policy in suit, it manifestly related, and was understood
by both parties to relate, not to a mere report of appraisers,

HAMILTON v. RLOME INS. 00.
Opinion of the Court.

but to an award of arbitrators which should bind both parties
as to the amount of the loss.
The instruction to the jury, therefore, that on the issues
joined on the special defences in the answer, and upon the
evidence in the case, the plaintiff could not recover, was in
effect a ruling that the plaintiff could not maintain his action
because he had refused to submit the amount of his loss to
arbitration.
A provision, in a contract for the payment of money upon
a contingency, that the amount to be paid shall be submitted
to arbitrators, whose award shall be final as to that amount,
but shall not determine the general question of liability, is
undoubtedly valid. If the contract further provides that no
action upon it shall be maintained until after such an award,
then, as was adjudged in Hamilton v. Liverpool, -London &
Globe ns. Co., above cited, and in many cases therein referred
to, the award is a condition precedent to the right of action.
But when no such condition is expressed in the contract, or
necessarily to be implied from its terms, it is equally well settled that the agreement for submitting the amount to arbitration is collateral and independent; and that a breach of this
agreement, while it will support a separate action, cannot be
pleaded in bar to an action on the principal contract. .Roper
v. .endon, 1 El. & El. 825; Collins v. Locke, 4 App. Cas. 674;
Dawson v. Fitzgerald,1 Ex. D. 257; Reed v. Washington Ins.
Co., 138 Mass. 572; Seward v. Rochester, 109 N. Y. 161; Birminghan. Ins. Co. v. Pulver, 126 Illinois, 329, 338; Crossley
v. Connecticut Ins. Co., 27 Fed. :Rep. 30.
The rule of law upon the subject was well stated in Dawson
v. Fitzgerald,by Sir George Jessel, Master of the Rolls, who
said: "There are two cases where such a plea as the present
is successful: first, where the action can only be brought for
the sum named by the arbitrator; secondly, where it is agreed
that no action shall be brought till there has been an arbitration, or that arbitration shall be a condition precedent to the
right of action. In all other cases where there is, first, a
covenant to pay, and, secondly, a covenant to refer, the
covenants are distinct and collateral, and the plaintiff may sue
VOL. cxxxvni-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

on the first, leaving the defendant" "to bring an action for
not referring," or (under a modern English statute) "to stay
the action till there has been an arbitration." 1 Ex. D. 260.
Applying this test, it is quite clear that the separate and
independent provision, in the policy now before us, for submitting to arbitration the amount of the loss, is a distinct and
collateral agreement, and was wrongly held by the Circuit
Court to bar this action.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded,with directions to set
aside the 'verdict, and to take such further proceedings as
may be consistent with this opinion.

THE PROPELLER BURLINGTON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 783. Submitted December 1, 1890.-Decided December 15, 1890.
The Ubellant in an Admiralty suit, owner of a barge lost through alleged negligence in the propeller towing it, obtained a decree against the offending
vessel in the Circuit Court on appeal, valuing it at e5300, and adjudging
that he recover of the claimants (owners) and also against the sureties
on the appeal bond, $2422.28 for his own damages by loss of the barge
and freight, and $2877.72 as trustee for the owners of the lost cargo.
Claimants appealed to this court. After this appeal was taken claimants
commenced a new suit in Admiralty in the District Court, in which a
decree was obtained valuing the vessel at $7000 and distributing this
amount to the libellant in this suit and to other sufferers. In this new
distribution libellant was awarded e4658, instead of e5300. Held,
(1) That this Court had jurisdiction of the appeal in this suit;
(2) That this jurisdiction was not affected by the proceedings in the subsequent and independent suit.
When a tow suffers injury through improper and unseamanlike conduct on
the part of the tug hauling it, the latter is liable. Facts stated which
show such improper and unseamanlike conduct in this case.
MOTION TO DISMISS OR

court, was as follows:

AFFIRM.

The case, as stated by the

