OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

allowed if the existence of such value is denied in good
faith.
The practice of permitting affidavits to be filed in this court
arose from instances of accidental omission, where the value
was not really in dispute, and it should not be encouraged to
the extent of requiring us to reach a result upon that careful
weighing of conflicting evidence, so frequently involved in
determining issues of fact. If there be a real controversy on
the point, let it be settled below in the first instance and on due
notice; not here, upon ex par'te opinions, which may embody
nothing more than speculative conclusions.
In the case in hand, the value of the whole property was
alleged in the petition, but was not an issuable fact, and the
Circuit Court allowed the writ of error upon the prim facie
showing made by the defendant, and on plaintiff's subsequently
presenting evidence to the contrary, the controversy was
referred to this court. This being the attitude of the case, we
do not think it proper to allow affidavits to be filed here as if
the question were now raised for the first time. Upon an
examination of the record as returned, we are clear that the
jurisdictional value is not made out by a preponderance of evidence. The motion to dismiss will, therefore, be sustained.
Wr'it of error dismissed.

UNITED STATES ex rel. REDFIELD v. WINDOM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TEE DISTRICT OF COLUMhBIA.
No. 1301. Argued December 18, 1890.-Decided January 12, 1891.

Cases cited in which it has been decided that a person holding public office
may be compelled by writ of mandamus to perform the duties imposed
upon him by law.
When the duty which the court is asked to enforce by mandamus is plainly
ministerial, and the right of the party applying for the writ is clear, and
he is without other adequate remedy, the writ may issue ; but, where the
effect of the writ is to discharge or control the head of an Executive
Department in the discharge of a duty involving the exercise of judgment or discretion, it should not issue.

REDFIELD v. WINDOM.
Opinion of the Court.
Cases cited and referred to in which a writ of mandamus will not be issued
to compel the performance of even a purely ministerial act.
M. furnished material and performed labor for the United States under a
contract, and when the work was done and the materials furnished he
presented his account to the proper officer for adjustment and settlement.
The balance was found to be correct so far as the labor and material
were concerned, but it was also found that through penalties and forfeitures that balance was liable to be materially reduced. It also appeared
that M. was indebted to mechanics, sub-contractors, laborers and material men in a large amount for work done and materials furnished under
the contract. The treasury officials agreed with M. that this account
should be adjusted without enforcing the penalties and forfeitures, if he
would consent that his said indebtedness should be paid out of the sum
so allowed, and that the control of the money should not be given up
until those claims were satisfied. He assented, and a draft was prepared
accordingly. i. did not comply with those conditions, but instead
thereof applied to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for
leave to file an application for a writ of mandamus, to compel the Secretary of the Treasury to deliver the draft to him, without first making
the agreed payments. That officer made a return to the petition, setting
forth the foregoing facts. Held,
(1) That the return showed disputed questions of law and fact, which
ought not to be tried in a proceeding for a mandamus, and that
this was sufficient cause for the discharge of the rule and the
refusal to issue the writ ;
(2) That the agreement between M. and the accounting officers was lawful, and, if carried out, would have been proper.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.L. Franklin H. .Macey for the relator.
Air. Assistant Attorney General gfaury for the Secretary of

the Treasury, in opposition.
M . JUSTICE TLA-iLA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia, to reverse a judgment of that court dismissing
the relator's petition for a peremptory writ of mandamus
against the respondent, William Windom, Secretary of the
Treasury, commanding him to deliver to the relator a Treasury draft for $12,536 which had been lawfully assigned to the
relator by William Mitchell, the payee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The petition and its amendments allege that William
Mitchell, in pursuance of a contract made with the United
States on the third of September, 1886, furnished certain
material and performed certain labor for the Life Saving Service, in the construction and repair of seven houses on the coast
of Long Island in the State of New York; that his account
therefor was adjusted on the 11th of February, 1888, by the
Treasury Department, as shown by a letter from the Commissioner of Customs to Mitchell, stating that the sum of $12,536
was due to Mitchell, and adding, "draft will be remitted;"
that the account having been so adjusted nothing remained to
be done by the Treasury officials but the ministerial duty of
issuing a warrant and remitting to Mitchell a draft for the
amount so found to be due; and that a draft, dated the 15th
of February, 1888, was issued to Mitchell, but instead of being
delivered to him or paid, it was sent to Captain George W.
Moore, of the Life Saving Service, at New York, with instructions not to deliver said draft, nor to pay its amount to
Mitchell, until Mitchell should pay certain claims presented
against him, at the Treasury Department, to persons alleging
his indebtedness to them for materials and labor. The petition further averred that there was no discretion residing in
the respondent, the Secretary of the Treasury, or in any other
government officer, as to the delivery of said draft; that none
of those officers had any right or authority to. interfere with
Mitchell's private business, or to adjust any claims against
him; that such an attempt on their part was a violation of
Mitchell's rights and of the rights of the relator as his assignee; that Moore, in pursuance of the Secretary's instructions, did not deliver the draft or pay the amount of it to
Mitchell, but returned it to the Secretary of the Treasury, who
still retains the same in his possession, and still refuses to
deliver it or to pay any part thereof to either Mitchell or the
relator; that the said claims against Mitchell are unjust, and
amount to $12,503, or within $33 of the amount of said draft;
that even if they were not unjust the relator has no authority,
under the terms of the assignment, to pay them, and has no
means to pay them until the said draft is either delivered or

RIEDFIELD v. WINDOM.
Opinion of the Court.

paid to him; that the respondent does not deny the correctness of the account, or the amount found to be due to Mitchell,
but bases his refusal to deliver the draft simply upon the
ground that Mitchell has not paid the sums demanded of him
by the persons who presented their claims at the Treasury
Department; that about the 27th day of February, 1888,
Mitchell, under certain proceedings under the laws of New
York, set forth the indebtedness of the United States to him,
and the detention of the draft as herein stated; that the
Supreme Court of the city and county of New York, in the
course of these proceedings, appointed the relator receiver of
all of Mitchell's property, debts, equitable rights, interests, and
effects, real and personal; that he, the relator, was duly qualified, and, by virtue of said order, was entitled to demand and
to receive the said draft for $12,536; and that Mitchell, for
the purpose of enabling the relator to demand and receive said
draft, and to apply the proceeds thereof according to the order.
appointing him receiver, assigned said draft to relator, giving
him thereby full power to demand and receive it or the
amount expressed in it.
By an amendment, the petition further alleged that "a general appropriation vas made by act of Congress to provide for
the payment of work to be done in the building and repairing
of life-saving stations prior to the performance of the work
done under the said contract of September 3, 1886, and that
there is sufficient money now in the Treasury of the United
States applicable to the payment of the said work so done
under said contract." The prayer is for a writ of mandamus
against Hon. William Windom, Secretary of the Treasury,
commanding him to deliver or cause to be delivered to the
relator the said draft, or show cause at an early date, and that
such further order may be made in the premises as law and
justice may require, or show cause, etc.
This petition and the order to show cause having been agreed
by stipulation to be taken as the alternative writ, a demurrer
was interposed, which was overruled by the court, and the
respondent ordered to make return. Before the return was
made, the relator was allowed to make further amendments,

OCTOBER TERM,,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

designed to reply to what was expected to be set forth in the
return.
The facts stated in the return are averred mainly upon information and belief, as they occurred under a former Secretary,
the predecessor of the respondent. It admits that an account
was stated by the accounting officers of the Treasury Department on the 11th of February, 1888, under his predecessor,
but that said account was stated, and a draft prepared for
delivery upon condition, and under the circumstances expressed
in the letters of certain officials of the Treasury Department
which are filed by the relator as exhibits. It then sets out in
substance, though not in the order as here stated, that the
respondent is advised and believes that the said amount of
$12,536 is not justly due and owing by the United States to
Mitchell, or his lawful assignee, for the work done and materials furnished; that the account referred to in the petition
was adjusted, and a draft prepared for delivery, upon the
condition, previously agreed to by Mitchell, that part of the
$12,536, so allowed, should be applied to the satisfaction of
the claims of certain mechanics, laborers and material men,
by whose work and materials the houses were built and repaired; that Mitchell, under his contract with the government,
was liable to a penalty of thirty dollars per day for any delay
in completing the work within the time stipulated; that he
had actually incurred penalties for delays amounting to $6240;
that the remission of these penalties would not have been
approved or recommended, and said adjustment of the account
would not have been made, and said draft would not have
been prepared, but for the above-mentioned conditions agreed
to by Mitchell, that he should allow the disbursing officer, to
whom the draft was sent, to pay the sub-contractors and
workmen out of the proceeds of the draft; that the conditions of the proposed waiver were not complied with by
Mitchell, or the relator; that the government has the right to
insist upon them, and deduct the penalties from the amount
of said account; and that it is the legal right of the respondent to secure a restatement of 'aid account, to cancel said
draft, or to take such other course to secure said penalties and

REDFIELD v. WINDOM.
Opinion of the Court.

forfeitures to the government as the laws and regulations of
the Treasury Department may require. He fnrther averred
that to leave the relator to his remedy at law would enable
the government to avail itself of the said forfeitures, or other
just damages in the premises.
On the hearing, the court discharged the rule and denied
the writ.
The main assignment of error is, that the court erred in not
deciding that the duty of the Secretary to deliver the draft
was purely a ministerial duty, of which the court should enforce
the performance by a writ of mandamus. In order to determine whether the case presented by the record is a proper one
for a mandamus, it is necessary to recur to certain statutory
provisions bearing upon the powers and duties of the Secretary of the Treasury respecting the accounts to be settled in
that department, and especially upon his relations to the
accounting officers thereof.
The act of June 18, 1878, 20 Stat. 163, c. 265, to organize the
Life Saving Service, and that of May 4, 1882, 22 Stat. 55,
c. 117, to promote its efficiency, provide -that the keepers of
life saving stations, and the superintendents thereof, shall have
the powers and perform the duties of inspectors of customs.
The sections of the Revised Statutes material to be considered
are the following:
Section 277 provides that"The First Auditor shall receive and examine all accounts
accruing in the Treasury Department relating to the receipts
from customs, including accounts of collectors, and other ojicers of the customs . . . and after examination of such
accounts, relating to the receipts from customs, including the
accoAts of collectors and other officers of the customs, he
shall certify the balances and transmit the same, with the
vouchers and certificates, to the Commissioner.of Customsfor
his decision thereon, and he shall certify the balances of all
othei, accounts, and transmit the same in like manner, to the
First Comptroller for his decision thereon."
SEc. 317 provides that"The Commissioner of Customs shall examine all accounts
VOL. Cxxxv--41

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

settled by the First Auditor relating to the receipts from customs, including accounts of collectors and other officers of the
customs, and certify the balances arising thereon to the Register, [and shall perform all the acts and exercise all the powers
relating to the receipts from customs and the accounts of collectors, and the other officers of the customs or connected therewith, devolved by section two hundred and sixty-nine upon the
First Comptroller in regard to other receipts and other accounts]."
"SEC. 191. The balances which may from time to time be
stated by the Auditor and certified to the heads of Departments by the Commissioner of Customs, or the Comptrollers
of the Treasury, upon the settlement of public accounts, shall
not be subject to be changed or modified by the heads of
Departments, but shall be conclusive upon the executive
branch of the Government, and be subject to revision only by
Congress or the proper courts. The head of the proper
Department, before signing a warrant for any balance certified to him by a Comptroller, may, however, submit to such
Comptroller any facts in his judgment affecting the correctness
of such balance, but the decision of the Comptroller thereon
shall be final and conclusive, as hereinbefore provided."
The contention of the counsel for the relator is, that Mitchell
performed his contract with the United States to construct
and repair certain houses for the Life Saving Service; that his
account for the work done and the materials furnished was
examined by the proper accounting officer; that a balance
was found in Mitchell's favor in the amount of $12,536; that
this balance was certified by the Commissioner of Customs to
the Secretary of the Treasury; and that the Secretary did
not dispute this indebtedness of the United States to MAchell,
nor submit to the proper accounting officers any facts affecting
the correctness Qf the said balance, but assented to its correctness by issuing a warrant and having prepared a draft for its
payment. It is insisted that the Secretary after issuing this
warrant has no power to change or modify the balance thus
found and certified; but that his duty to deliver the draft to
Mitchell, or his assignee, is purely a ministerial one, and that

REDFIELD v. WINDOM.
Opinion of the Court.

the writ of mandamus should issue to compel the performance
of that duty.
This argument would be conclusive as to the right of the
relator to the remedy prayed for if the facts which it assumes
comprised all the facts presented by the record. The statutes
which we have quoted are very explicit in designating the
officers to whom the right and duty belong of examining and
auditing the accounts therein referred to, and of certifying
and transmitting the balances of the same to the Commissioner
of Customs for his decision thereon; and they expressly provide that when those accounts are examined by those accounting officers in successive grades, the balances stated by the
Auditor and certifiqd to the heads of department by the Commissioner shall be conclusive upon the executive branch of the
government. There is nothing in the language of these provisions which expressly or by implication vests in the Secretary the power to revise or disallow any part of these accounts.
On the contrary, it is clearly his duty to issue a warrant for
the payment of any balance without any change or modification, except that before issuing a warrant for any balance
certified to by a Comptroller, he may submit to such Comptroller any facts in his judgment affecting the correctness of
such balance; but the decision of the Comptroller thereon
shall be final and conclusive.
The principles upon which persons holding public office may
be compelled by a writ of mandamus to perform duties imposed by law have been distinctly defined and strictly adhered
to in a great number and variety of cases before this court.
.Marburyv. JMadison, 1 Cranch, 137; Hendall v. United States,
12 Pet. 524; Decatur v. Paulding,14 Pet. 497; Brashearv.
2fason, 6 How. 92, 101; Goodrich v. G-uthrie, 17 How. 284;
Ex pctrte De Groot, 6 Wall. 497; Georgiav. Stanton, 6 Wall.
50; Gaines v. Thompson, 7 Wall. 347; United States v. Seaman, 17 How. 225, 230; Ex parte Bradstreet, 7' Pet. 634;
llarrington v. Holler, 111 U. S. 796; Reeside v. Ivalker, 11
How. 272, 290; United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, 394,
395; Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50;* United States ex rel.
.Dunlapv. BJlaek, 128 1U. S. 40.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

That piinciple is that the writ of mandamus may issue
where the duty, which the court is asked to enforce, is plainly
ministerial, and the right of the party applying for it is clear
and he is without any other adequate remedy; and it cannot
issue in a case where its effect is to direct or control the head
of an executive department in the discharge of an executive
duty involving the exercise of judgment or discretion. The
doctrine to be gathered from these cases, as well those in
which mandamus was granted as those in which it was refused, especially from the two leading cases, Eendall v. United
States, supra,and -Decaturv. Paulding, supra, is thus enunciated in United States ex rel. -Dunlapv. Black, supra,by Mr.
Justice
who delivered the opinioi of the court:
"The Bradley,
court will
not interfere by mandamus with the
executive officers of the government in the exercise of their
ordinary official duties, even where those duties require an
interpretation of the law, the court having no appellate power
for that purpose; but when they refuse to act in a case at all,
or when, by special statute, or otherwise, a mere ministerial
duty is imposed upon them, that is, a service which they are
bound to perform without further question, then, if they refuse,
a mandamus may be issued to compel them." p. 48.
It is proper here'to remark, as applicable to the determination of this case, that, in the extreme caution with which this
remedy is applied by the courts, there are cases when the writ
will not be issued to compel the performance of even a purely
ministerial act. In a case, for instance, where the intention
of the officer, though acting within the scope of his duty, had
been frustrated by a clerical mistake, United States v. Schurz,
supra; or where the case is one of doubtful right, Y. YLife
and Fire Ins. Co. v. Wilson, 8 Pet. 291, 302; or in a case
where the relator having another adequate remedy, the granting of the writ may in this summary proceeding affect the
rights of persons who are not parties thereto, or where it will
be attended with manifest hardship and difficulties, People v.
]Forquer,Breese, [1 Ill.] 68, (2d ed., 104); Tan Rensselaer v.
Sheriff of Albany, 1 Cowen, 501, 512; Oakes v. Hill, 8 Pick.
46. In The King v. The Lord Commissioners of the T'easury,

REDFIELD v. WVINDOM.
Opinion of the Court.

4 Ad. & El. 286, 295, Lord Denman, Chief Justice, said : "If,
as has been suggested, it should on any occasion be unsafe,
with reference to the public service, to make a payment of this
kind, the fact may be stated on return to the mandamus. There
might perhaps be occasions on which the Lords Commissioners
would be bound to apply the money to particular purposes of
a more pressing nature."
We repeat that, if we confine our view of this case, as the
counsel for appellee contends that we should, to the adjustment of the account of Mitchell, as stated by the Auditor,
the certificate of the balances of the Commissioner of Customs to the Secretary of the Treasury, the issue of the warrant by the latter for the payment of the balance so certified,
the preparation of the draft, its transmission to the disbursing
officer, the subsequent withholding of it by the Secretary of
the Treasury, and his refusal to deliver it either to Mitchell or
his assignee, the relator, the case is clearly one of ministerial
duty. But the facts, circumstances and conditions set forth in
the return of the Secretary of the Treasury place the matter
in another and quite a different light. He states in his return
that, under the contract of Mitchell with the United States,
Mf itchell had actually incurred, by defaults, penalties and forfeitures to a large amount, the deduction of which from the,
amount of his account, as rendered, would reduce that amount
largely; that the entire adjustment of that account, including
the waiver of the penalties incurred, the certification.of the
balances, and the issuing of the warrant and preparation of
the draft for delivery, was upon the condition, agreed to by
Mitchell, that out of the sum thus allowed by the department
the claims of the mechanics, sub-contractors, laborers and
material men, for work and material furnished by them in the
erection of the station buildings, should be satisfied; that an
essential part of this agreement with Mitchell was that the
control of the money to be paid was not to be given up until
these claims of the aforesaid parties should, in some way, be
settled; that the draft for the amount agreed upon should be
sent to the officer of the Life Saving Service at New York, by
whom, with Mitchell, these parties, at some appointed time,

OCTOBER TERTN,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

were first to be paid or satisfied out of said draft; and that,
if this was not done, the draft was not to be delivered to
Mitchell. He further states that Mitchell refused to perform
this condition; and that the penalties would not have been
waived but for that agreement ; and says:
"In the opinion of the respondent said forfeitures and penalties may legally be insisted upon by the government and the
amount thereof deducted from said draft, and it is the legal
right of the respondent, in his opinion, to secure a restatement
of said account, or to cancel said draft, or to take such other
course to secure said penalties and forfeitures to the government as the laws and the regulations of the Treasury Department may require; and he avers that to leave the relator to
his remedy at law would, in the respondent's opinion, enable
the government to avail itself of the said forfeitures or other
just damages in the premises."
We think that this return showed sufficient cause for a discharge of the rule and a refusal to issue the writ. It certainly
raises disputed questions of law and fact as to the amount of
the actual indebtedness of the United States to Mitchell; as to
his agreement that the draft should not be delivered until the
claims of the sub-contractors, mechanics and material men
should be satisfied out of the proceeds of said draft; as to
whether the remission of the forfeiture was absolute or conditional; as to the validity of such agreement; and as to the
legal effect of M itchell's non-fulfilment of the contract. We
concur with the court below that these disputed questions of
law and fact should not be tried in this proceeding; and that
this is not a case in which the power of the court should be
exercised.
We have given due consideration to the ingenious argument
of counsel for appellee to show that the return in terms does
not assert that the remission of the penalties was conditioned
as stated by the court below; and that if such condition was
agreed to between the accounting officers and M itchell, such
agreement was illegal and void. We think neither of these
points is well taken. As to the first, the court below correctly
stated the substance of the return, as we have also attempted

DUNCAN v. NAVASSA PHOSPHATE CO.
Statement of the Case.

to do. The objection really is that the averments of the
return, upon this point, lack the essential requisites of good
pleading. It does not appear that any such ground was taken
in the court below. As to the second point, it is our opinion
that the agreement between Mitchell and the accounting officers, as stated in the return, was lawful, and if carried out by
Mitchell would have been fair and proper. It was simply that
the amount which would otherwise have been excluded by
reason of Mitchell's default from the balance certified and
from the warrant for payment, should go in part to the payment of the men by whose labor and means the houses of the
Life Saving Service had been built for the United States.
The judgment of the court below is

fimed.

DUNCAN v. NAVASSA PHOSPHATE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
THE DISTRICT OF

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

AIYLAND.

No.1203. Submitted January 9, 1891.-Decided January 19, 1891.

The right conferred by the United States, under the Guano Islands Act of
August 18, 1856, c. 164, (Rev. Stat. tit. 72,) upon the discoverer of a deposit
of guano'and his assigns, to occupy, at the pleasure of Congress, for the
purpose of removing the guano, an island determined by the President
to appertain to the United States, is not such an estate in land as to be
subject to dower, notwithstanding the act of April 2, 1872, c. 81, (Rev.
Stat. ยง 5572,) extending the provisions of the act of 1856 "to the widow,
heirs, executors or administrators of such discoverer" if he dies before
fully complying with its provisions.

THIS was a petition for dower in a guano island. The Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maryland,
upon the bill of a citizen of Maryland against the Navassa
Phosphate Company, a corporation of New York doing business in Maryland, having appointed receivers of all its property within the jurisdiction of the court, Isabella Duncan of
Baltimore, in the State of Maryland, filed in the cause a petition containing the following allegations and prayer:

