SEEBERGER v. CAHN.
Statement of the Case.

business the petitioner was assisted by his wife, and that she
was twice arrested for larcenies committed from persons visiting his saloon, and in one case convicted of the offence and
sentenced to be imprisoned, and in the other held to answer.
These larcenies alone were a sufficient indication of the character of the place in which the business was conducted, for the
exercise of the discretion of the police commissioners in refus-

ing a further license to the petitioner.
The order discharging the petitioner must be
Reversed, and the cause iemxnded with directions to take
further proceedingsin conformity withi this opinion, and
it is so ordered.

SEEBERGER v. CAHN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 47. Argued November 3, 1890. -Decided

November 17, 1890.

Cloths popularly known as "diagonals," and known in trade as " worsteds,"
and composed mainly of worsted, but with a small proportion of shoddy
and of cotton, are subject to duty as a manufacture of worsted, and not
as a manufacture of wool, under the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121.

Tis was an action of assumpsit against a collector of customs to recover back duties paid under protest. Plea, non
assumpsit. A jury was duly waived, and the case submitted
to the court, which made the following finding of facts:
"The plaintiffs imported an invoice of cloths popularly
known as 'diagonals,' which were classed by the collector as
woollens, and a duty of 35 cents per pound and 35 per cent ad
valorem assessed upon them under paragraph 362, new tariff
index. The plaintiffs claimed that the goods should have
been classed as 'manufactures of worsted not otherwise provided for' under paragraph 363, new tariff index, and the
duty assessed at 24 cents per pound and 35 per cent ad valorem. The duties were paid under protest, appeal taken, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

suit brought, all in apt time. The goods in question are used
mainly for the manufacture of men's wearing apparel, and are
denominated or known to the trade as 'worsteds,' and are
composed mainly of worsted, but the worsted fibre is mixed
with at least 10 per cent of shoddy, this shoddy being made
from wool, and some cotton. Worsted is made by combing
the long-fibred wools, so that the fibres shall lie or be arranged
alongside of each other; while wool is worked by carding, so
as to interlock the fibres with each other. Shoddy is a separate manufacture of wool, and is added to the worsteds in
question for the purpose of giving weight and body to the
fabric."
Upon these facts the court gave judgment for the plaintiffs.
30 Fed. Rep. 425. The defendant sued out this writ of error.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Aaury for plaintiff in
error.
2Th. Edwin B. Smith, (with whom was
on the brief) for defendants in error.

.Mr.Ctharlks Curie

MR.JusTicE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, under "Schedule K, Wool
and Woollens," (22 Stat. 508, 509,) imposes duties as follows:
"Woollen cloths, woollen shawls, and all manufactures of
wool of every description, made wholly or in part of wool, not
specially enumerated or provided for in this act, valued at not
exceeding eighty cents per pound, thirty-five cents per pound
and thirty-five per centum ad valorem; valued at above eighty
cents per pound, thirty-five cents per pound, and in addition
thereto forty per centum ad valorem.
"Flannels, blankets, hats of wool, knit goods, and all goods
made on knitting-frames, balmorals, woollen and worsted yarns,
and all manufactures of every description, composed wholly or
in part of worsted, the hair of the alpaca, goat or other animals
(except such as are composed in part of wool), not specially

SEEBERGER v. CAHN.
Opinion of the Court.

enumerated or provided for in this act, valued at not exceeding thirty cents per pound, ten cents per pound; valued at
above thirty cents per pound, and not exceeding forty cents
per pound, twelve cents per pound; valued at above forty
cents per pound, and not exceeding sixty cents per pound,
eighteen cents per pound; valued at above sixty cents per
pound, and not exceeding eighty cents per pound, twenty-four
cents per pound; and in addition thereto, upon all the abovenamed articles, thirty-five per centum ad valorem; valued at
above eighty cents per pound, thirty-five cents per pound, and
in addition thereto forty per centum ad valorem."
In the interpretation of the customs acts, nothing is better
settled than that words are to receive their commercial meaning; and that when goods of a particular kind, which would
otherwise be comprehended in a class, are subjected to a distinct rate of duty from that imposed upon the class generally,
they are taken out'of that class for the purpose of the assessment of duties.
Of the two successive paragraphs in the customs act of 1883,
upon which the parties respectively rely, the first imposes a
certain scale of duties on "all manufactures of wool of every
description, made wholly or in part of wool, not specially enumerated or provided for in this act;" and the second imposes
a lower scale of duties on "all manufactures of every description, composed wholly or in part of worsted." It is hardly
necessary to observe that the subsequent words enclosed in a
parenthesis "(except such as are composed inpart of wool)"
evidently qualify only the intervening clause "the hair of the
alpaca., goat or other animals," and have no bearing upon this
case.
Though worsted is doubtless a product of wool, and might
in some aspects be considered a manufacture of wool, yet
manufactures of worsted being subjected by the second paragraph to different duties from those imposed by the first
paragraph on manufactures of wool, it necessarily follows that
a manufacture of worsted cannot be considered as a manufacture of wool, within the meaning of this statute.
That shoddy, though a product, and in some sense a manuVOL. CXXVII-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

facture, of wool, is not to be considered as itself wool, or a
manufacture of wool, within the meaning of the statute, is
clearly shown by the paragraph next preceding the two above
quoted, which makes the duty on "woollen rags, shoddy,
mungo, waste and flocks, ten cents per pound." Lennig v.
Maxwell, 3 Blatchford, 125.
It being distinctly found, as matter of fact, that the goods
in question are called or known in the trade as "worsteds,"
and are composed mainly of worsted, but mixed with a small
proportion of shoddy and of cotton, the Circuit Court rightly
held that they were subject to duty as manufactures of worsted,
and not as manufactures of wool.
The cases of Elliott v. 8wartwout, 10 Pet. 137, and Riggs v.
Frick, Taney, 100, are directly in point; and our conclusion is
supported by many decisions of this court in analogous cases.
Homer v. The Collector, 1 Whll. 486; Reiche v. Smythe, 13
Wall. 162; -Movius v. Arthur, 95 U. S. 144; Arthur v. Morrison, 96 U. S. 108; Arthur v. Lahey, 96 U. S. 112; Arthur
v. Stephani, 96 U. S. 125; Arthur v. Davies, 96 U. S. 135;
Arthur v. Rheims, 96 U. S. 143; Swan v. Arthur, 103 U. S.
597; Vietor v. Arthur, 104 U. S. 498; Robertson v. Glendenning, 132 U. S. 158.
Judgment affirmed.

FITZGERALD AND MALLORY CONSTRUCTION
COMPANY v. FITZGERALD.
ERROR

TO

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 1141. Submitted October 28, 1890.-

Decided November 17, 1890.

Where jurisdiction has been obtained by service of garnishee process in a
proceeding in rem, the court has power to proceed notwithstanding
defect in service on the person.
In such case, objection to jurisdiction over the person, to be availing, must
not be raised in connection with denial of jurisdiction over the subject
matter.
The defendant below having denied the power of the court to proceed at
all, and upon decision against it having joined issue and gone to trial

