CENTRAL BANK v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case,

CENTRAL NATIONAL BANK v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 90. Argued November 24, 25,1890. -Decided December 8,1890.

Under the statute of the State of New York of April 23, 1866, providing
for assessing and taxing stockholders in national banks upon the value
of their shares, and making it "the duty of every such bank" "to retain
so much of any dividend or dividends belonging to such stockholder as
shall be necessary to pay any taxes assessed in pursuance of such act,"
the plaintiff in error having declared dividends, retained therefrom the
taxes thereon assessed and due to the State. Held, that the several
sums so retained were part of "the earnings, income, or gains of the
bank," upon which an internal revenue tax was imposed by c. 173, ยง 120
of the Act of June 30, 1864, as amended by the Act of July 13, 1866, 14
Stat. 98, 138, c. 184.
If a national bank, in good faith, but by mistake, declares a dividend or
makes an addition to its surplus or contingent funds, when it is not in a
condition to do so, the dividend or addition is subject to taxation, and
the mistake cannot be corrected by the courts in an action brought to
recover the tax.

THE

case as stated by the court was as follows:"

This action was brought in the District Court of the United
States *forthe Southern District of New York to recover certain amounts alleged to be due the United States for taxes on
"profits" made and realized by the Central National Bank
from its business for the years 1866, 1867, 1868, and 1870, namely, $56,555.69 for 1866, $79,003.22 for 1867, $79,800 for
1868, and $33,750 for 1870 - of which no return was made to
the assessor or assistant assessor of the district in which the
bank was located, and on which no tax was paid to the collector, as required by law. A demurrer to various counts of
the answer was overruled with leave to the government to
amend its complaint. 10 Fed. Rep. 612.
An amended complaint was filed which proceeded upon the
ground that the bank in each of the above years "declared a
dividend or dividends in money due to its stockholders" of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

above amounts, for the years named, respectively, of which no
return was made, and on which no tax was paid.
The action was based, chiefly, upon section 120 of the act of
Congress of June 30, 1864, entitled "An act to provide internal revenue to support the government, to pay interest on the
public debt, and for other purposes," 13 Stat. 22 , 283, c. 173,
as amended by the act of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat. 98, 138, c.
184. That section provided: "That there shall be levied and
collected a tax of five per centum on all dividends in scrip or
money thereafter declared due, wherever and whenever the
same shall be payable, to stockholders, policy-holders or
depositors, or parties whatsoever, including non-residents,
whether citizens or aliens, as part of the earnings, income or
gains of any bank, trust company, savings institution, and of
any fire, marine, life, inland insurance company, either stock
or mutual, under whatever name or style, known or called, in
the United States or Territories, whether specially incorporated
or existing under general laws, and on all undistributed sums,
or sums made or added during the year to their surplus or
contingent funds; and said banks, trust companies, savings
institutions, and insurance companies shall pay the said tax,
and are hereby authorized to deduct and withhold from all
payments made on account of any dividends or sums of
money that may be due and payable as aforesaid the said tax
of five per centum. And a list or return shall be made and
rendered to the assessor or assistant assessor on or before the
tenth day of the month following that in which any dividends
or sums of money became due or payable as aforesaid; and
said list or return shall contain a true and faithful account of
the amount of taxes as aforesaid; and there shall be annexed
thereto a declaration of the president, cashier or treasurer of
the bank, trust company, savings institution or insurance company, under oath or affirmation, in form and manner as may
be prescribed by the commissioner of internal revenue, that
the same contains a true and faithful account of the taxes as
aforesaid. And for any default in the making or rendering
of such list or return, with such declaration annexed, the bank,
trust company, savings institution or insurance 'company

CENTRAL BANK v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

making such default shall forfeit as a penalty, the sum of one
thousand dollars; and, in case of any default in making or
rendering said list or return, or of any default in the payment
of the tax as required, or any part thereof, the assessment and
collection of the tax and penalty shall be in accordance with
the general provisions of law in other cases of neglect and
refusal: P'ovided, That the tax upon the dividends of life
insurance companies shall not be deemed due until such dividends are payable, nor shall the portion of premiums returned
by the mutual life insurance companies to their policy-holders,
nor the annual or semi-annual interest allowed or paid to the
depositors in savings banks or savings institutions, be considered as dividends."
Section 121 of the same act is as follows: "That any bank
legally authorized to issue notes as circulation, which shall
neglect or omit to make dividends or additions to its surplus
or contingent fund as often as once in six months, shall make
a list or return in duplicate, under oath or affirmation of the
president or cashier, to the assessor or assistant assessor of the
district in which it is located, on the first day of January and
July in each year, or within thirty days thereafter, of the
amount of profits which have accrued or been earned and received by said bank during the six months next preceding said
first days of January and July; and shall present one of said
lists or returns and pay to the collector of the district a duty
of five per centum on such profits, and in case of default to
make such list or return and payment within the thirty days
as aforesaid, shall be subject to the provisions of the foregoing
section of this act: Provided, That when any dividend is
made which includes any part of the surplus or contingent
fund of any bank, trust company, savings, institution, insurance
or railroad company, which has been assessed, and the duty
paid thereon, the amount of duty so paid on that portion of
the surplus or contingent fund may be deducted from the duty
on such dividend." 13 Stat. 284, c. 173.
The answer to the amended complaint denies, on information and belief, that during the period from the 1st of January,
1866, to the 31st day of December, 1866, the defendant declared

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

a dividend or dividends in money due to its stockholders of the
amount of $56,555.69, whereof no return was made, and on
which no tax was paid; and denies that the alleged dividend
or dividends were liable to the tax of five per cent as claimed
by the government.
As a separate defence to the cause of action based upon the
alleged declaration of dividends for the year 1866, the bank
averred that, in 1866, it was required by the laws of New
York, not only to retain from the dividends to its stockholders
the amount of the municipal tax levied l6y that state against
stockholders on the value of its shares of capital stock owned
by them, respectively, but to pay over to the proper State
officers, out of its funds, the amount of taxes thus levied upon
the par value of said stock, and deduct the amount ratably
from the dividends to be paid by it to stockholders; that in
1866, in pursuance of the laws of New York, it retained and
paid to such officers the amount of taxes so levied by the State
upon the shares of defendant's stock owned by stockholders,
and the amount so paid was $56,555.69; that in making up
returns to the United States assessor it did not include that
amount in its statement of dividends, being advised, and now
insisting, that such amount was a legitimate expense of its
business and in no sense part of dividends, or to be returned
as such.
The statute of New York here referred to is that of April
23, 1866, providing that no tax shall thereafter be assessed
upon the capital of any bank or banking association organized
under the authority of the State or of the United States,
"but the stockholders in such banks and banking associations
shall be assessed and taxed on the value of their shares of
stock therein;" such shares to be "included in the valuation
of the personal property of such stockholder in the assessment
of taxes at the place, town or ward where such bank or banking association is located." The 6th section of that act provides: "For the purpose of collecting such taxes, and in
addition to any other law of this State, not in conflict with
the Constitution of the United States, relative to the imposition of taxes, it shall be the duty of every such bank or

CENTRAL BANK v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

banking association, and the managing officer or officers
thereof, to retain so much of any dividend or dividends belonging to such stockholder as shall be necessary to pay any taxes
assessed in pursuance of this act, until it shall be made to
appear to such officer that such taxes have been paid." Laws
of N. Y. 1866, vol. 2, p. 1647.
A similar defence was made in respect to the alleged declarations of dividends for the years 1867, 1868 and 1870.
In reference to the causes of action based upon the alleged
declarations of dividends for 1866, 1867 and 1868, the bank
made further special defences, which are set out at great
length, but are stated by its counsel, as follows: "That in
each of said years 1866, 1867 and 1868 the bank sustained
losses from the embezzlement of its funds, by its cashier, to
an amount in each of said years largely exceeding the amount
of the, so-called 'dividend' or State tax for such year; that
said losses were concealed from the other officers of the bank
until July, 1869, and in the interim the bank was led to believe
that its profits were much larger than they actually were, and
to pay and distribute among its stockholders, and to assume
to add to its surplus fund much larger sums than it had actually earned, and to make erroneous returns of its dividends
from earnings and of its additions to surplus, and to pay to
the United States a much larger tax thereon than was really,
payable. The following is a summary of the erroneous returns
so made, and of the erroneous taxes so paid to the United
States, as stated in said separate defences:
Year.

Dividend.

1866 . . .$448,947 36
1867 . .. 325,789 40
1868 .. . 315,789 48

Addition to
Surplus Fund.

830,000
30,000
30,000

Total.

Five per cent
tax paid.

$23,947 36

$478,947 36
355,789 40
345,789 48

17,789 48
17,289 48

Amount of taxes paid on erroneous dividends, and
on erroneous additions to surplus during said

three years .....

.............

.$59,026

32

"That, in making said erroneous dividends and additions to
the surplus, the bank, in each of said years, drew the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

largely from its capital and its surplus earned in former years,
and that since its discovery of said losses it has been compelled
to apply its profits made since July 1, 1869, to make good the
impairment of its capital and surplus caused by said erroneous
payments, and to withhold from its stockholders the portion
of its profits so applied, and that the State taxes, or ' dividends '
paid by the bank to the State of New York in 1866, 1867 and
1868 were not paid from its earnings, income or gains in either
of said years, but wholly from its capital and accumulated
surplus of former years, and were not liable to the tax of five
per cent imposed by section 120, and that section does not
apply to such a payment." The claim of the defendant, in
its answer, was that, if it may not treat the amount paid to
the State as municipal taxes on the value of its stock held by
stockholders as a legitimate expense of its business in the
years 1866, 1867 and 1868, respectively, it is entitled to have
deducted from the amount of tax on the sums alleged to have
been declared as dividends the amounts it paid, through mistake of fact, on the excess of profits returned for the above
years over the profits actually made and realized from its
business in those years.
In the District Court a demurrer to the counts of the answer containing the special defences was overruled, and judgment given for the defendant. 15 Fed. Rep. 223. Upon writ
of error to the Circuit Court that judgment was reversed, and
the cause was remitted to the District Court, where, upon final
trial, judgment was rendered in favor of the United States for
the sum of $28,625.33. 24 Fed. Rep. 577. This judgment
having been affirmed in the Circuit Court, the case has been
brought here by the bank.
-Mr. H. 7. -Divineand 2Xr. ff. P. Whitehead for plaintiff
inerror.
We concede that where a bank, by mistake, makes a return
showing more profits than it has earned, and where, upon the
faith of that return, a tax has been assessed and collected, the
bank is debarred or estopped fiom afterwards correcting its

CENTRAL BANK v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

mistake and reclaiming any part of that tax; but we also
claim that this estoppel must be limited to the erroneous
return made and to the tax assessed and collected on tie basis
of that return, and that it cannot and should not be extended,
so as to cover a payment, not included in the return, of a state
tax against its stockholders made by a bank, not from its
earnings, income or gains of the current year, but, concededly,
from its capital and surplus of previous years.
"An estoppel will be strictly limited to the representation
made." Bigelow on Estoppel, pp. 495, 496, and cases cited.
Herman on Estoppel, ยง 24, p. 338.
In Cooley on Taxation, 2 ed. pp. 819, 820, it is said: "But
the technical doctrine of estoppel is one to be applied with*
great caution, for it sets aside general rules on supposed equities, and the danger is always imminent that wrong may be
done," see also p. 360.
In this case the estoppel must be confined to the dividends
declared and returned, and to the taxes assessed thereon by
the assessor and paid by the bank in 1866, 1867 and 1868.
The payment of the state tax was not, in any manner an
admission by the bank that the amount paid was a dividend
or a part of its profits, etc., and even if it were, it could only
operate as an admission or estoppel as between the bank and
the State, and not as between the bank and the United States.
There being, then, no element of estoppel as between the
bank and the United States, in reference to the alleged "dividends" or State taxes mentioned in the first three causes of
action, the only ground upon which the United States can
claim a recovery therefor is removed; for, clearly, that State
tax was not a dividend "declared due to stockholders as part
of the income, earnings or gains" of the bank to entitle the
United States to recover.
To entitle the United States to recover the tax upon the
"alleged dividends" mentioned in the complaint, it must
allege and prove that those dividends or taxes were, in fact,
dividends declared due to stockholders, as part of the earnings, income or gains of the bank.
If the United States proved that the bank paid to the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of New York in each of those years the taxes mentioned in
the complaint for account of its stockholders, but -did not
include them in its returns of dividends, it would still have to

prove that those payments were made from the "earnings,
income or gains" of the bank, and in response to any such'
proof, it would be competent for the bank to show, what is
now conceded by the demurrer, viz.: that those State taxes
or dividends were paid, not from the said "earnings, income
or gains," but from the bank's capital and accumulated surplus of previous years; that the returns of dividends, etc.,
which the bank actually made showed more dividends and
additions to surplus than it had actually earned; and that
it had, in fact, paid to the United States more taxes than it
was liable for. If such proof were offered, would not the
bank be entitled to judgment in its favor?
As has already been stated, all these causes of action are
based on ยง 120 of the Revenue act, and to entitle the bank to
recover for any or either of them, it must allege and prove,
not only that the moneys paid for the State taxes were "dividends in money declared due to the stockholders" of that
bank, but must also allege and prove that those dividends
were in fact declared due "as part of the earnings, income or
gains" of the bank.
We submit that the taxes paid to the State were not "dividends declared due to stockholders," within the meaning or
intent of ยง 120, nor can they be subject to the five per cent
tax on dividends imposed by that section. The dividends
liable to taxation are clearly defined in that section, viz.:
They must be declared due to stockholders as part of the
earnings, income or gains of the bank; and clearly these payments to the State of New York do not come within that
definition.
The only pretext for any claim that the amounts paid by
the bank for State taxes were liable to any United States
Internal Revenue tax is, that they represented "profits" which
the bank omitted or neglected to return.
But the United States, on May 12, 1882, deliberately repudiated any such claim by amending its complaint, so as to

CENTRAL BANK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

base its claim solely upon section 120 (viz., that the State tax
was a dividend) and not upon section 121 (that it represented
profits).
Having made this election more than eight years ago, and
having adhered to it ever since, we submit that the United
States is not entitled to recover anything from the bank in
this action.
If the United States has any valid claim against the bank
for profits not returned in 1870, it can enforce that claim in
an appropriate action at any time, for the statute of limitations does not run against the United States. United States
v. .2ashville &o. Railway, 118 U. S. 120, dnd cases there
cited.
MrL'. Assistant Attorney General Parker for defendants in
error.

Mr. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the case, as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The act of Congress was correctly interpreted by the Circuit
Court. That the amounts paid by the bank to the State in
the years 1866, 1867, 1868 and 1870 came from dividends
declared by it to be due and payable to stockholders, as part
of its earnings, income or gains, is entirely clear. Because
they were from dividends, so declared, the bank recognized its
obligation to pay, and did pay, the taxes assessed by the State
upon shares owned by stockholders. It was not required to
retain the amount of taxes due the State except from "dividends belonging to such stockholders." The taxes constituted
a claim against stockholders only, and the bank was made
simply an agent to collect them for the State. Their retention by the bank out of dividends declared due to stockholders
was a convenient mode adopted by the State to collect its
taxes. The circuit judge well said that, in legal effect, the
retaining by the bank of the amount of the taxes assessed
against stockholders was the same as if it had paid the whole
dividend to stockholders, and the latter had handed back the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

sum due from them for municipal taxes, and .authorized the
bank to pay it. For these reasons, the bank had no right to
omit from its return a statement of the sums retained by it
for the State out of dividends to stockholders in the years 1866,
1867, 1868 and 1870.
This is an end of this case, unless, as contended, the embezzlement of the bank's cashier, whereby it was led to believe
that its profits were larger than they actually were, and
whereby it was induced to distribute among its stockholders
and add to its surplus or contingent funds larger sums than
were actually earned, and to make erroneous returns of dividends from earffings and of additions to surplus, constitutes a
defence to the action. We are of opinion that the liability
of the bank, under section 120, depends solely upon the questions whether dividends were, in fact, declared due and payable to stockholders from its earnings, income or gains, and
whether undistributed sums were, in fact, made or added to
its surplus or contingent fund. Whether or not such dividends should be declared, or such additions made, was for the
bank to determine. In view of the language and object of the
statute, we hold that, if the declarations or additions were not
recalled or rescinded before the time when it became the duty
of the bank to make its returns to the assessor, the question
whether or not, for the purposes of taxation by the United
States, dividends had been declared due to stockholders, or
additions made to surplus or contingent funds, was closed, and
the liability of the bank for the tax of five per cent on such
dividends or additions attached. If the bank, in good faith and
by mistake, made a declaration of dividends, or an addition to
its surplus or contingent funds when it was not in a condition
to do so, the mistake cannot be corrected by the courts in
an action brought to recover the tax. Relief must come from
another branch of the government.
In Bailey v. Railroad Co., 106 U. S.109, 113, 115, this court
bad occasion to construe section 122 of the above act of Congress, providing that "any railroad, canal, turnpike, canal
navigation or slack-water company, indebted for any money
for which bonds or other evidences of indebtedness have been

CENTRAL BANK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

issued, payable in one or more years after date, upon which
interest is stipulated to be paid, or coupons representing the
interest, or any such company that may have declared any
dividend in scrip or money due or payable to its stockholders,
as part of the earnings, profits, income or gains of
such company, and all profits of such company carried to the
account of any fund, or used for construction, shall be subject
to and pay a tax of five per centum on the amount of such
interest or coupons, dividends or profits, whenever and whereever the same shall be payable," etc. 13 Stat. 283; 14 Stat.
138. The court, speaking by Mr. Justice Matthews, said:
"It is true, indeed, that by the terms of the law the amount
paid as interest on bonds is charged with a tax as part of the
earnings, although there may have been no net earnings out
of which to pay it ; but the law proceeds upon a presumption
which disregards what is merely exceptional. And we have
no hesitation in saying, that in reference to a dividend declared
as of earnings for the current year and paid as such to stockholders, whether in money or in scrip, no proof would be
admissible, for the purpose of avoiding the tax, that no earnings had in fact been made. The law conclusively assumes,
in such a case, that a dividend declared and paid is a dividend
earned." The same principle must govern the construction of
section 120, and determines the present case in favor of the
United States.
Judgment afflrmed.
MRF.. JrsvlcE FiELD dissented.

