OCTOBER TERMN, 1890.
Syllabus.

court were sustained. That case is decisive of this. Clark was
in the employ of the government when he made this invention.
His experiments were wholly at the expense of the government. He was consulted as to the proper stamp to be used,
and it was adopted on his recommendation. He notified the
government that he would make no charge if it adopted his
recommendation and used his stamp; and for the express reason that he was in the government employ, and had used the
government machinery in perfecting his stamp. He never
pretended, personally, to make any charge against the gbvernment. Indeed, there is but one difference between that case
and this: in that, Harley's wages were increased on account
of his invention; in this, Clark's were not; but such difference
does not seem vital. We think, therefore, the rulings of the
Court of Claims were correct, and its judgment is
4Afitmed.

MONTANA RAILWAY COMPANY v. WARREN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
No. 80.

Argued November 18, 19, 190.- Declided December 8, 1890.

In this case the record contained the pleadings and a motion for a new trial,
which motion was authenticated by the trial judge and set forth at
length all the proceedings at the trial, including the evidence, the exceptions to testimony, the instructions to the jury, the exceptions to those
instructions, a bill of exceptions in due form, properly certified by the
presiding judge, the verdict, and the judgment on the verdict. This proceeding was in accordance with the practice authorized by the Statutes
of Montana. Held, that it was sufficient for the purposes of review here.
Kerr v. Clampitt, 95 U. S. 188, distinguished from this case.
In this court inquiry is limited to matters presented to and considered by
the court below, unless the record presents a question not passed upon
by that court, which is vital, either to the jurisdiction, or to the foundation of right, and not simply one of procedure.
In a proceeding under the right of eminent domain to condemn, for use in
the construction of a railroad, an undeveloped prospect" in mineral land,
the testimony of a competent witness, familiar with the country and its
surroundings, as to the value of the land taken, may be received in evidence, inasmuch as such property is the constant subject of barter and

MONTANA RAILWAY CO. v. WARREN.
Opinion of the Court.
sale, although its absolute and intrinsic value may be uncertain before
development.
As it is difficult to lay down any exact rule as to the amount of knowledge
which a witness as to the value of lands condemned for use in the construction of a railroad must possess, the determination of that matter
must rest largely in the discretion of the trial judge.

Tnis action was commenced by a petition filed by the Montana Railway Company, upon which Commissioners were
appointed, to assess the damages to the respondents, for a
right of way of the company's line of road over a certain
mining claim in Silver Bow County, Montana, known as the
INipper Lode. The Commissioners assessed the damages at
$1552. From their award Warren appealed to the District
Court of the second judicial district of Silver Bow County
where the case was tried before a jury who returned a verdict assessing the damages at $7000. A motion by the railway
company for a new trial having been overruled and denied,
and a judgment rendered on the verdict, the railway company carried the case to the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Montana, where the judgment below was affirmed. The
company thereupon sued out this writ of error. The case is
stated in the opinion.
.31r. John F. Dillon, (with whom was Mr. Harry Hvbbard
on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
Mr. S. S. Burdett for defendants in error.
M.R.

JusTicE BREwER delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error desiring to construct its railroad
through a tract of land belonging to the defendants in error,
the same being a mining claim known as the Nipper Lode, situated in Silver Bow County, Montana Territory, took appropriate proceedings for the condemnation of a right of way.
The appraisers assessed the damages at $1552. From such
appraisement the defendants appealed to the District Court;
and on trial there the jury found the damages to be $7000,
for which, with costs, judgment was entered against the rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

road company. An appeal was taken to the Supreme Court
of the Territory, which affirmed this judgment; which judgment of affirmance has been brought before us for consideration. The opinion of that court will be found in 6 Montana,
275.
A preliminary question is presented by the defendants in
error: They insist that no bill of exceptions was taken at the
trial, and that therefore no rulings of the trial court are before
us for consideration, citing as authority the case of J-err v.
Clcmpitt, 95 U. S. 188. In that case, as in this, after the trial
a statement of the errors alleged, upon which a motion for
a new trial was based, was prepared and filed; but, although
signed by counsel, it was held by this court to be not the
equivalent of a bill of exceptions, and to be available only
for the purpose expressed, to wit, the motion for a new trial.
There was in that case no stipulation that the statement
should be treated as a bill of exceptions, or be available for
other purposes than that of a new trial. It was not authenticated by the trial judge. Lacking that authentication, it was
adjudged available only for the purpose named; and that it
did not bring into the record, for review, in this court, the
questions presented. In this case the proceedings on the trial
are embodied in a statement prepared like that for the purpose of a motion for a new trial; but in addition, it is authenticated by the trial judge as a correct statement of the proceedings. Further than that, at the trial a bill of exceptions
was prepared in respect to the rulings of the court on instructions, signed by the trial judge and filed at the time, which
bill of exceptions was incorporated in the statement. So that
we have a separate and perfect bill of exceptions as to the
ruling of the court on the matter of instructions; and a statement of all the proceedings in the trial, approved by counsel
and authenticated by the trial judge. This proceeding was
authorized by the statutes of Montana, and must be adjudged
as sufficient for the purposes of review here.
When the case was brought to the Supreme Court of Montana, no new assignments of error were made. The only specifications of error were in the statement prepared for the

MONTANA RAILWAY CO. v. WARREN.
Opinion of the Court.

motion for a new trial in the District Court. Perhaps nothing more was necessary; and all the questions arising on the
trial may have been open to consideration. Be that as it
may, the opinion of the Supreme Court opens by saying:
"There are assignments of error in the statement which are
not referred to in appellant's brief, and which will therefore
not be considered by this court. Those relied upon are as
follows." It then discusses them; and closes with the statement that "these are all the errors complained of and relied
upon in appellant's brief." The court also comments upon
the character of the record, and says: "It is certainly apparent that it is not such a record as should be filed in this court."
The question now arises whether our inquiry is limited to the
matters presented to and considered by that court, or should
be broadened to all matters that transpired at the trial. Obviously, the former. Error is alleged in the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Territory; and if, in all matters presented to it, its rulings were correct, it cannot be affirmed that
its judgment was erroneous, because there were in the record
matters not vital to the question of jurisdiction or the foundation of right, but simply of procedure, to which its attention
was not called, and in respect to which its judgment was not
invoked. All such matters must be considered as waived by
the complaining party. It would be an anomaly if a party
feeling himself aggrieved by the rulings of a trial court could
appeal to the Supreme Court of his Territory, and invoke its
judgment on certain alleged errors; and, when defeated there,
could transfer the judgment of that Territorial Supreme Court
to this, and ask a reversal here of its judgment on grounds
involving mere matters of procedure in the prior trial, to
which its attention was not directed. It is fundamental that
when the judgment of a court is challenged in error, its rulings
alone are open to consideration. Of course, if the trial court
had no jurisdiction, that is a matter which is always open, and
the attention of the court of last resort may be called thereto
in the first instance; but mere matters of error may always be
waived, and they .re waived when the attention of the reviewing court is not called to them. Our conclusion, therefore,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

is that our inquiry in this case is only in relation to the matters presented to and reviewed by the Supreme Court of the
Territory.
They are three in number: First, that the verdict indicates
passion and prejudice. Obviously, there is no foundation for
this. If the testimony admitted by the trial court was competent, there was ample foundation for the verdict. If the witnesses were to be believed and their testimony was competent,
the verdict was not excessive; and the second of the three
points presented to the Supreme Court, which was that the
evidence was not sufficient to justify the verdict, thus fails.
There remains for consideration but a single point-that
there was admitted in evidence on the trial the opinions of
witnesses as to the value of the land, which were not based
upon the sale of the same or similar property, and were not,
therefore, the opinions of persons competent.to so testify. It
appears that the land taken was a strip running through a
mining claim, which had been patented and belonged to the
defendants in error. The claim adjoined the Anaconda mining claim, which had been developed and worked, and demonstrated to contain a vein of great value. The claim in
controversy had been developed so far as to indicate that possibly, perhaps probably, the same rich vein extended through
its territory. It had not been developed so far that this could
be affirmed as a fact proved. The strip taken ran lengthwise
through the claim; and, upon the trial, witnesses were permitted to testify as to their opinion and judgment of its value.
It may be conceded that there is some element of uncertainty
in this testimony; but it is the best of which, in the nature of
things,, the case was susceptible. That this mining claim,
which may be called "only a prospect," had a value fairly
denominated a market value, may, as the Supreme Court of
Montana well says, be affirmed from the fact that such "prospects" are the constant subject of barter and sale. Until there
has been full exploiting of the vein its value is not certain, and
there is an element of speculation, it must be conceded, in any
estimate thereof. And yet, uncertain and speculative as it is,
such "prospect" has a market value; and the absence of cer-

MONTANA RAILWAY CO. v. WARREN.
Opinion of the Court.

tainty is not a matter of which the railroad company can take
advantage when it seeks to enforce a sale. Contiguous to a
valuable mine, with indications that the vein within such mine
extends into this claim, the railroad company may not plead

the uncertainty in respect to such extension as a ground for
refusing to pay the full value which it has acquired in the
market by reason of its surroundings and possibilities.

In

respect to such value, the opinions of witnesses familiar with
the territory and its surroundings are competent. At best,
evidence of value is largely a matter of opinion, especially as
to real estate. True, in large cities, where articles of personal
property are subject to frequent sales, and where market quotations are daily published, the value of such personal property
can ordinarily be determined with accuracy; but even there,
where real estate in lots is frequently sold, where prices are
generally known, where the possibility of rental and other circumstances affecting values are.readily ascertainable, common
experience discloses that witnesses the most competent often
widely differ as to the value of any particular lot; and there
is no fixed or certain standard by which the real value can be
ascertained. The jury is compelled to reach its conclusion by
comparison of various estimates. Much more so is this true
when the effort is to ascertain the value of real estate in the
country, where sales are few, and where the elements which
enter into and determine the value are so varied in character.
And this uncertainty increases as we go out into the newer
portions of our land, where settlements are recent and values
formative and speculative. Here, as elsewhere, we are driven
to ask the opinions of those having superior knowledge in respect thereto. It is not questioned by the counsel for plaintiff
in error that the general rule is that value may be proved by
the opinion of any witness who possesses sufficient knowledge
on the subject; but their contention is, that the witnesses permitted to testify had no such sufficient knowledge. It is difficult to lay down any exact' rule in respect to the amount of
knowledge a witness must possess; and, the determination of
this matter rests largely in the discretion of the trial judge.
Stillwell .[anufacturing Co. v. Pheps, 130 U. S. 520; LawvoL. cxxxV-23

OCTOBER TERM,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

Pence v. -Boston, 119 Mass. 126 ; Chandler v. Jamaica Pond
-Aqueduct Corporation, 125 Mass. 544. The witnesses whose
testimony is complained of, all testified that they knew the
land and its surroundings; and many of them that they had
dealt in mining claims situated in the district, and had opinions as to the value of the property. It is true, some of them
did not claim to be familiar with sales of other property in
the immediate vicinity; and the want of that means of knowledge is the specific objection made in the Supreme Court of
the Territory to the competency of those witnesses. But the
possession of that means of knowledge is not essential. It has
often been held that farmers living in the vicinity of a-r-m
oli vaoueis in question, may testify as to it value althouah
nio-sades have been made to their knowledge of that or similar
property. Indeed, if the rule were as stringent as contended,
no value could be established in a community until there had
been sales of the property in. question, or similar property.
After a witness has testified that he knows the property and
its value, he may be called upon to state such value. The
means and extent of his information, and therefore the worth
of his opinion, may be developed at length on cross-examination. And it is fully open to the adverse party, if not satisfied
with the values thus given, to call witnesses in the extent of
whose knowledge and the weight of whose opinions it has confidence.
We think the Supreme Court of Montana was right in holding that no error was committed in permitting the testimony
of these witnesses. These are all the questions submitted to
that court; and its ruling in respect thereto being correct, its
judgment is
Affimed.

