SMITH v. GALE.
Aigument for the Motion.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLEPR

delivered the opinion of the

court.
In this cause, trial by jury was waived by agreement of the
parties in writing, duly filed, and the case was tried by the
court. But the record discloses no finding upon the facts,
either general or special, in accordance with the statute, (Rev.
Stat. §§ 649, 700,) and no questions are therefore open to our
revision as an appellate tribunal.
As the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the subject matter
and the parties, its judgment must be presumed to be right,
Affirmed.
and on that ground

SMITH v. GALE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
DAKOTA.
No. 580.

Submitted December 22, 1890.-Decided January 5, 1891.

The day of the entry of judgment or decree must be excluded in computing
the time for taking an appeal or bringing a writ of error to review it.

Tins was a motion to dismiss an appeal, on the ground that
it "was not taken within the time prescribed by law." It
appeared that the final decree W'as entered of record by the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Dakota, on the 25th of
May, 1886. The appeal from this decision was allowed, the
supersedeas bond was offered and the citation was signed on
the 25th day of May, 1888, by the chief justice of that court,
and these papers were all filect on that day in the clerk's
office of that court.
.M'. A. G. Sford and _l&. Park -Davis (with whom was
lb'. Melvin Grigsby) for the motion.
Final judgment was entered in this action on the 25th day
of May, 1886, and the appeal to this court was allowed on the
25th day of May, 1888. This motion is made upon the ground
that the appeal was not taken within the prescribed time.
VOL.

cxxxvn-37

OCTOBER TERML 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

It is a general rule that where the computation is to be
made from an act done, the day on which the act is done is
to be included. A rnold v. United States, 9 Cranch, 101. In
common and popular usage the day a quo has always been included, and such has been the rule both of the Roman and the
common law. Giffitk v. Bogert, 18 How. 158. These cases
were cited with approval in -Dutchter v. Jlight, 94 U. S. 553.
The foregoing cases are distinguishable from another class
of cases wherein the computation is to be madefrom ajarticular day, and not from an act done. The general current
of the latter authorities is that the day thus designated is
excluded. Sheets v. Selden, 2 Wall. 177; Best v. Polk, 18
Wall. 112.
The case falls within the rule laid down in the former class
of decisions. The entry of judgment was an act done on the
25th day of May, 1886, and inasmuch as no fraction of a day
can be considered, it must be referred to the earliest moment
of that day, and the day should be counted. By counting
that day the two years within which the appeal could be taken
expired on the 24th day of May, 1888, and the appeal was
allowed one day too late.
.ll>. Enoch Totten opposing.
LP.. CIEF JusTIcE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.

In computing the two years after the entry of a final judgment, decree or order, sought to be reviewed in this court,
within which the writ of error must be brought or the appeal
taken, the day of the entry of such judgment, decree or order
should be excluded. C'edit Co. v. Arkansas Oentral Railway
Co., 128 U. S. 258.
The motion to dismiss the appeal in this cause is therefore
-Denied.

