OCTOBER TERX, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

BALTIMORE

AND

POTOMAC

RAILROAD

COM-

PANY v. FIFTH BAPTIST CHURCH.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMIBIA.
Nos. 121,122. Argued December 18, 19, 1890.-Decided January 5,1891.

At tae trial of an action of tort upon a plea of nu tiel colroration, evidence
that the plaintiff, after filing a defective certificate of incorporation under
a general corporation law, acted for years as a corporation, and recovered a judgment as such in a similar action against the defendant without any objection made to its capacity to sue, is competent and sufficient
to prove it a corporation de facto, and therefore entitled to maintain this.
action.
Misnomer of a corporation plaintiff is pleadable in abatement only, and is.
waived by pleading to the merits.
Baltimore & Potomac Railroad v. Fifth Baptist Church, 108 U. S. 317,
approved.
At a trial by jury in a court of the United States, the presiding judge may
express his opinion upon matters of fact which he submits to their
determination.
In an action for the continuance of a nuisance, the jury cannot, for the
purpose of reducing the damages, take into consideration judgments
recovered for the earlier maintenance of the same nuisance.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Enock Totten for plaintiff in error.
M1.r. J. J. Darlington and .lk. aartin F. Morris (with
whom was ilr. G. . Hamilton on the brief) for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTCE

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

These two actions are in the nature of actions on the case
for the continuance of a nuisance to the plaintiff's use and
enjoyment of its house of public worship, by the noise, smoke,
cinders, ashes and vapors from the defendant's adjoining
engine house, repair shop and locomotive engines, and by the

B. & P. RAILROAD v. FIFTH BAPTIST CHURCH.

569

Opinion of the Court.

obstiuction of access to the plaintiff's building by the defendant's unlawful use of its side track in front of it.
The plaintiff heretofore brought in the court below a similar
action against the defendant for maintaining the same nuisance
from April 1, 1874, to March 22, 1877,and at the trial thereof
on the general issue recovered a verdict and judgment for
$4500, which was affirmed by this court, and the amount
thereof, with interest, was paid by the defendant. Baltimore
& Potomac Railroadv. Fifth Baptist Church, 108 U. S. 317.
The present actions were brought and tried separately; one
of them was brought March 21, 1880, for damages since March
24, 1877, and resulted on March 24, 1886, in a verdict and
judgment for $6000; and the other was brought June 11, 1883,
for damages since June 11, 1880, and resulted on April 22,
1886, in a verdict and judgment for $7000. In each of these
two actions there were the following proceedings:
The declaration was headed "The Fifth Baptist Church of
Washington, D.C., by its Trustees v. The Baltimore and
Potomac Railroad Company;" and alleged that the plaintiff
was a body corporate in the District of Columbia, under and
by virtue of the general corporation act of May 5, 1870, c. 80,
§ 2. 16 Stat. 99, 100; Rev. Stat. D. C. §§ 533-544.
The defendant pleaded in bar: 1st. "That the said plaintiff
was not at the time of the commenceinent of this suit, and
never was, a body corporate or politic, as set forth and alleged
in and by said declaration." 2d. Not guilty. The plaintiff
joined issue on these pleas.
The plaintiff, upon the issue presented by the first plea, and
to prove its user of corporate rights, offered the following evidence, which was admitted against the defendant's objection
and exception:
1st. The original of the following certificate of incorporation, signed and sedled by the six persons named therein:
"We, C. C. Meador, George M. Kendall, John N. Henderson, Samuel M. Yeatman, James C. Deatley and Samuel S.
Taylor, of Washington City in the District of Columbia, do
hereby certify that we have been duly elected ' Trustees of the
Fifth Baptist Church of Washington City, D.C.' (commonly

OCTOBER TERI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

called ' the Island Baptist Church'), and that this certificate is
made, signed and sealed for the purpose of obtaining corporate
rights and privileges for the said ' Fifth Baptist Church,' a
religious society worshipping at present in their church edifice
on D Street South, between Four-and-a-half and Sixth Streets
in said city of Washington, under the provisions of an act of
Congress approved May 5, 1870, entitled 'An act to provide
for the creation of corporations in the District of Columbia by
general law.'
"In testimony whereof we hereunto set our hands and affix
our seals this twenty-fourth day of August in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-one."
Annexed to this paper were a notary public's certificate of
its acknowledgment on the same day by these six persons; an
affidavit of one of them, dated May 1, 1885, that the statements in the certificate of incorporation were true; a megiorandum of the recorder that the paper was recorded September
5, 1871; and another memorandum that it was recorded May
1, 1885.
2d. A recorder's copy of the certificate of incorporation,
acknowledgment and affidavit, as recorded May 1, 1885.
3d. That in the year 1871 it became necessary for the plaintiff, in order to complete its church edifice, to borrow money
upon a mortgage of its land; and that to promote this object,
and upon the recommendation of its finance committee, a special meeting was called, and was held on July 2, 1871, at
which the church (which had been known as the Island Baptist
Church) resolved to become incorporated under the name stated
in the above certificate of incorporation, and elected as its
trustees the six persons named therein, and fixed their term of
office at three years; and thereupon that certificate was prepared and signed by the trustees and recorded.
4th. Three deeds, respectively dated September 26, 1871,
September, 18, 1872, and November 10, 1874, from the six persons named in the above certificate of incorporation, describing themselves as "trustees of the Fifth Baptist Church of
Washington City, D.C." reciting its incorporation under the
general corporation act, and its resolution authorizing them

B. & P. RAILROAD v. FIFTH BAPTIST CHURCH.

571

Opinion of the Court.

to execute the deeds, and conveying the church building and
land, in trust and by way of mortgage, to secure the payment
of various sums of money.
5th. Two deeds of release of the same building and land,
dated November 9, 1874, from the grantees to the grantors
in the first two of the trust deeds aforesaid.
6th. The record of the judgment in the former action
between these parties.
The plaintiff also introduced, without objection, evidence
tending to show "that its present church edifice was begun
about the year 1866 and was completed at a cost of about
$22,000, exclusive of the ground; that the property is worth
about $30,000, and has been occupied and used by the plaintiff's society or congregation since the year 1867 as its place
of religious worship; and that during the period covered by
this suit its actual church membership, consisting, as in all
Baptist churches, of persons who have been baptized after a
profession of faith, numbered about four hundred persons,
exclusive of the persons attending services there as members
of the congregation who were not members of the church."
It may be that, as held by the court below in 4 Mackey, 43,
at a former stage of one of these cases, the original certificate
of incorporation, not stating the date of election or the term
of office of the trustees, nor supported by affidavit, as required
by statute, was not sufficient of itself to prove the plaintiff's
existence as a corporation, either de jure or de facto; and
that the adding of an affidavit to the certificate, and recording
it anew, since the commencement of these actions, could not
avail the plaintiff.
But the certificate of incorporation, as originally drawn up,
taken in connection with the other evidence, now introduced,
and especially the record of the former action in which this
plaintiff as a corporation recovered jdgment against this
defendant without any objection being taken to the plaintiffs
capacity to sue, is clea-rly competent and sufficient, as between
these parties, to prove that the plaintiff had in good faith
attempted to legally organize as a corporation, and had longacted as such, and was at least a corporation de facto, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

is all that is necessary to enable it to maintain an action
against any one, other than the State, who has contracted
with the corporation, or who has done it a wrong. Bank of
United States v. .Dandridge,12 Wheat. 64, 72; Conard v.
Atlantic Ins. Co., 1 Pet. 386, 450; Chubb v. Ujpton, 95 TU. S.
665; Williamsburg Ins. Co. v. Fothingham,122 Mass. 391;
SealrsburgA Turnpike Co. v. Cutler, 6 Vermont, 315; Cincinnati &c. Railroad v. Danville & Vincennes Railroad,75 Illinois, 113; Stockton & Linden Co. v. Stockton & Copperopoli&
Railroad,45 California, 680.
It is objected that the evidence admitted, if sufficient to
prove that the plaintiff was a corporation, did not prove that
it was the corporation which brought this action; because the
evidence was that the corporate name was "The Fifth Baptist
Church of Washington, D.C.," whereas the action, as stated
in the declaration, was brought by "The Fifth Baptist Church
of Washington, D.C., by its Trustees."
It may well be doubted whether the words "by its, Trustees," as here used, are part of the name of the plaintiff.
They may have been inserted, like "by attorney" or "by next
friend," to indicate by whose agency, and not in whose behalf,
the action is brought.& By the general corporation act, both
the title in real estate, and the right to sue, are vested in the
trustees "by the name and style assumed as aforesaid," that is
to say, in the name and behalf of the corporation. Act of
May 5, 1870, c. 80, § 2, 16 Stat. 99, 100; Rev. Stat. D.C.,
§§ 534, 539, 540.
But if these words in the declaration can be taken as part
of the plaintiff's name, the most that is shown is a mistake in
that name. While nul tiel corporation,or that the plaintiff.
is not and never was a corporation, is a good plea in bar,
because it goes to show that the plaintiff can never maintain
any action whatever; yet misnomer, or mere mistake in the
name of a corporation plaintiff, which does not affect its capacity to sue in the right name, is pleadable in abatement only,
and is waived by pleading to the merits. Bro. Ab. Misnomer,
'73; Society for Propagatingthe Gospel v. Pawlet, 4 Pet. 480,
501; Christian Society v. .acomber, 3 Met. 235, 237; Gould
P1. c. 5, § 79.

B. & P. RAILROAD v. FIFTH BAPTIST OHUROH.

513

Opinion of the Court.

Upon the issue of not guilty, the plaintiff and the defendant
respectively further introduced evidence similar to that given
at the trial of the former action, and stated in 108 U. S. 318820.
The court, at the plaintiff's request, gave the following
instructions to the jury, to each -of which the defendant
excepted :
"If the jury find from the evidence that the church property of the plaintiff, described in the declaration, was acquired
and held as a place of religious worship by said plaintiff before
the engine house and repair shop of the defendant were built,
and that said engine house and repair shop, during the three
years immediately preceding the filing of the declaration, as
they were used by the defendant, rendered it impossible for
the plaintiff to occupy its building with comfort as a place of
public worship; that the hammering in the shop, the rumbling of the engines passing in and out from the engine house,
the blowing off of steam, and the smoke from the chimneys,
with its cinders, dust and offensive odors, created during said
period a constant and serious disturbance of the religious exercises of the church; that the noise was frequently so great
that the voice of the pastor while praying or preaching could
not be heard; that the chimneys of the engine house were,
during the three years embraced in this suit, allowed to continue lower in height than the windows of the church, and
that smoke and cinders from them were thrown into the
church in such quantities as to cover the seats with soot and
soil the garments of the worshippers; that disagreeable odors,
added to the noise, smoke and cinders, rendered the place
uncomfortable as a place of worship and unsuitable for the
purposes to which it was devoted; then the plaintiff is, as a
matter of law, entitled to recover, and it is the duty of the
jury to measure in damages the extent of the injury suffered
by the plaintiff from these various grievances during the three
years immediately preceding the bringing of this suit."
"In the estimate of damages, the plaintiff is entitled to
recover because of the inconvenience and discomfort caused
to the congregation assembled, if you find such inconvenience

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and discomfort to have been occasioned, thus tending necessarily to destroy the use of the building for the purposes for
which it was erected and dedicated. The congregation had
the same right to the comfortable enjoyment of its house for
church purposes, that a private gentleman has to the comfortable enjoyment of his own house; and it is the discomfort and
annoyance in its use for those purposes for the three years
covered by this suit which is the primary consideration in
allowing damages. There may be no arithmetical rule for the
estimate of damages. There is, however, an injury, the extent of which the jury may measure."
It is objected to these instructions, that the evidence did not
warrant the assumption that the use of the defendant's engine
house and repair shop rendered it "impossible" for the plaintiff to occupy its building with comfort; or that the noise,
smoke and cinders created a "constant" disturbance; or that
the voice of the preacher, while praying and preaching, "could
not be heard;" or that the smoke and cinders were thrown
into the church in such quantities as td "cover the seats with
soot;" or that there had been inconvenience and discomfort
caused to the congregation, "tending necessarily to destroy"
the use of the building for the purposes for which it was
erected and dedicated.
But all the expressions objected to were taken from the
opinion of this court in the former case, and are open to no
just exception in matter of law. 108 U. S. 329, 335. And if
they can be cbnstrued as expressing an opinion upon the facts,
the expression of such an opinion is within the discretion of the
judge presiding at a trial by jury in any court of the United
States, and, when no rule of law is incorrectly stated, and all
matters of fact are ultimately submitted to the determination
of the jury, cannot be reviewed on writ of error. Vicksburg
& 3leridian Rail'oad v. Putnam, 118 U. S. 545; United
States v. Philadel2 hia & Reading Railroad, 123 U. S.113;
Lovejoy v. United States, 128 U. S. 171.
The only other point relied on arises upon the defendant's
request for an instruction to the jury, in the second of the
present actions, that if they should be satisfied from the evi-

B. & P. RAILROAD v. FIFTH BAPTIST CHURCH.

575

Opinion of the Court.

dence, that the plaintiff was entitled to a verdict, then in
estimating damages they might take into consideration the
payment by the defendant to the plaintiff of the judgment in the
former action, and the judgment against the defendant in the
first of the present actions. The court refused so to instruct
the jury, except with this qualification : "But the fact of such
previous recoveries against the defendant is not admissible
for the purpose of reducing the amount of damages, if any,
to which the jury may find the plaintiff is justly entitled in
the present action." The defendant excepted to this instruction, as well as to the refusal to give the instruction requested.
The instruction, as given, was quite favorable enough to the
defendant. The design of the request, as avowed in the brief
of its counsel, "was to give the jury an opportunity to equalize the verdicts, should they deem either of the other two
either too high or too low, and to do justice according to their
notions."
But the jury in the last case had nothing to do with the
assessment of damages in either of the earlier cases. The
three actions were brought to recover damages for injuries
during distinct and successive periods of three years each.
The former action was not for damages which were the necessary or natural effect of the erection of the defendant's structures, which might be recovered once for all; but it was for
the injury suffered before the commencement of that action
by reason of the wrongful use of those structures. And each
of the present actions was brought, not for damages consequential upon the injury for which the plaintiff had already
recovered judgment, but for damages caused by the new injury
from the continuance of the nuisance, which could only be
recovered in each action for the three years before its commencement. The judgments recovered in the former action
and in the first of the present actions could not therefore have
any effect to bar the last action, or to diminish the measure of
the damages to be recovered by it. Troy v. Clieshire Railroad,
3 Foster, 83, 102; Warner v. Bacon, 8 Gray, 39T, 402, 405,
406; 1.Fowle v. YAtew Haven & Northampton Co., 107 Mass. 352,
355, and 112 Mass. 334.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Parties.

The cases at bar afford a good illustration of the rule of law,
and of its application, as stated by Blackstone: "Indeed every
continuance of a nuisance is held to be a fresh one; and therefore a fresh action will lie, and very exemplary damages will
probably be given, if, after one verdict against him, the defendant has the hardiness to continue it." 3 B1. Com. 220.
If the damages assessed by the jury in either of these two
actions were thought excessive, the defendant's only remedy
was by motion for a new trial in the court below, and that
has already been resorted to without success. 5 Mackey, 269.
Judgments affirmed.

LLOYD v. NoWILLIAMS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND.
No. 109. Argued and submitted December 10, 1890. -Decided

December 15,1890.

When a trial by jury in a Circuit Court is waived by agreement, and the
case is tried by the court, no questions are open for revision here, unless
the record shows a finding of facts in accordance with the provisions
of Rev. Stat. §§ 649, 700; and in such case, when brought here, the judgment of the Circuit Court will be presumed to be right and will be
affirmed, if it appears that that court had jurisdiction of the subject
matter and of the parties.

Tins was an action to recover duties alleged to have been
illegally exacted. When the cause was reached on the docket,
argument was begun on the part of the plaintiff in error; but
the court interrupted the counsel and declined to hear further
argument. The case is stated in the opinion.
Pfn.
J. P. Tcker for plaintiff in error. -Y'. C5arles Levi
Woodbury was with him.
.21b'. Assistant Attorney General .Xaury for defendant in
error.

