OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

Mr. Charles B. Alexander (with whom was Mr. John J. McCook on the brief) for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Given Camtnpbell for defendant in error.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was commenced by plaintiff in error in a State
court, and removed to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Missouri upon petition of the defendant, on the. ground that the plaintiff was an alien and
citizen of France and the defendant a citizen of Missouri. The
existence of such diverse citizenship at the commencement
of the suit, as well as when the removal was asked, did not
appear affirmatively in the petition for removal or in the
record when that was filed.
We are compelled to reverse the judgment, with costs, and
remit the cause to the Circuit Court, with a direction to
remand to the State Court. Stevens v.N chole, 130 U. S. 230;
Crehore v. Ohio and Mississippi Riailway Co., 131 U. S. 240;
Jackson Y. Allen, 132 U. S. 27.
Reversed and ordered accordingly.

WASHINGTONg

MARKET COMPANY
OF COLUMBIA.

v. DISTRICT

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREM1E COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUIU3MIA.
No. 10. Submitted October 21, 1890. - Decided October 27, 190.

The court dismisses without costs to either party an appeal, the subject
matter of which has been settled elsewhere, leaving only the disposition

of costs involved.

IN

EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

PER CunRi_: This is an appeal from the decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia dismissing the bill of

IN RE HUNTINGTON.
Statement of the Case.

complaint filed by appellant therein, the object of the bill having
been to restrain the defendants from selling, or attempting to
sell, certain property of complainant, on account of certain
assessments for street improvements, and also to cancel and
annul two tax lien certificates therein named; and counsel for
appellant having stated in open court that such assessments
and lien certificates have been, pending this appeal, quashed
and annulled at law by the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, and that only the disposition of costs is involved
herein, it is ordered that said appeal be
Dismissed without costs to eitherparty.
1fr. Wlliam Birney for appellant.
Mr. George C. Hazelton and .Mr. S. [. Thomas for appellee.

IN RE HUNTINGTON, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
Not numbered. Submitted October 27, 1890.-

Decided November 3, 1890.

On the authority of Ex pa'te Jfirzan, 119 U. S. 584, the court denies a
petition for leave to file a petition for a writ of habeas copus.

THIs was a petition for leave to file a petition for a writ of
htabeas coi its. The petition sought to be filed set forth the
issue of a writ of dedinus _potestaternm by the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Colorado, to take the
evidence of the petitioner, a resident of New York, to be used
in a suit pending in that court; the execution of the writ by
the commissioner named in it; the refusal of the witness to
answer some of the questions propounded by the commissioner;
an order of the court that he appear before the commissioner
within thirty days and answer the unanswered questions, or
otherwise be deemed in contempt, and stand committed till
he should answer; his appearance and continued refusal to

