CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.

THE MAX MORRIS: Morris, Claimant.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 44.

Submitted May 2, 1890.-Decided November 17, 1800.

Where a person is injured on a vessel, through a marine tort arising partly
from the negligence of the officers of the vessel and partly from his
own negligence, and sues the vessel in Admiralty, for damages for his
injuries, he is not debarred from all recovery because of the fact that
his own negligence contributed to his injuries.
Whether, in such case, the decree should be for exactly one-half of the
damages sustained, or might, in the discretion of the coart, be for a
greater or less proportion of such damages, qutere.

THE case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
This was a suit in Admiralty, brought in the District Court
,of the United States for the Southern District of New York,
by Patrick Curry against the steamer Max Morris.
The libel alleged that on tho P7th of October, 1884, the
libellant was lawfully on board of that vessel, being employed
to load coal upon her by the stevedore who had the contract
for loading the coal; that, on that day, the libellant, while on
the vessel, fell from her bridge to the deck, through the negliVOL. CXXXVI-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statemeut of the Case.

gence of those in charge of her, in having removed from the
bridge the ladder usually leading therefrom to the deck, and
in leaving open, and failing to guard, the aperture thus left
in the rail on the bridge; that the libellant was not guilty of
negligence; and that he was injured by the fall and incapacitated from labor. He claimed $3000 damages.
The answer alleged negligence on the part of the libellant
and an absence of negligence on the part of the claimant.
The District Court, held by Judge Brown, entered a decree
in favor of the libellant for $150 damages, and $32.33 as onehalf of the libellant's costs, less 847.06 as one-half of the
claimant's costs, making the total award to the libellant
$135.27. The opinion of the District Judge is reported in 24Fed. Rep. 860. It appeared from that that the judge charged
to the libellant's own fault all his pain and suffering and all
mere consequential damages, and charged the vessel with his
wages, at $2 per day, for 75 working days, making $150.
The claimant appealed to the Circuit Court, on the ground
that the libel should have been dismissed. It was stipulated
between the parties that the facts as stated in the opinion of
the District Judge should be taken as the facts proved in the
case, and that the appeal should be heard on those facts.
Judge Wallace, who heard the case on appeal in the Circuit
Court, delivered an opinion, in August, 1886, which is reported
in 28 Fed. Rep. 881, affirming the decree of the District Court.
No decree was made on that decision, but the case came up
again in the Circuit Court on the 14th of March, 1887, the
court being held by Mr. Justice Blatchford and Judge Wallace, when a certificate was signed by them stating as follows:
"The libellant was a longshoreman, a resident of the city and
county of New York, and was, at the time when the said
accident occurred, employed as longshoreman, by the hour, by
the stevedore having the contract to load coal on board the
steamship Max Morris. The injuries to the libellant were
occasioned by his falling through an unguarded opening in the
rail on the after end of the lower bridge. The Max Morris
was a British steamship, hailing from Liverpool, England.
The defendant contends, as a matter of defence to said libel,

THE MAX MORRIS.
Argument for Appellant.

that the injuries complained of by libellant were caused by
his own negligence. The libellant contends that the injuries
were occasioned entirely through the fault of the vessel and
her officers. The court finds, as a matter of fact, that the
injuries to the libellant were occasioned partly through his own
negligence and partly through the negligence of the officers
of the vessel. It now occurs, as a question of law, whether
the libellant, under the above facts, is entitled to a decree for
divided damages. On this question the opinions of the judges
are in conflict." On motion of the claimant, the question in
difference was certified to this court, and a decree was entered
by the Circuit Court affirming the decree of the District Court
and awarding to the libellant a recovery of $135.27, with interest from the date of the decree of the District Court, and
$26.30 as the libellant's costs in the Circuit Court, making a
total of $172. From that decree the claimant has appealed
to this court. Rev. Stat. §§ 652, 693; Dow v. Johnson, 100
U.S. 158.
A'. Wilhelmus Jfynderse and X&. Williarz Allen Butler for
Morris, claimant and appellant.
Whether the accident was due solely to the fault of the libellant, or whether his fault merely contributed thereto, the libel
should be dismissed.
The contributory fault of the libellant is established by the
facts. The rule as invariably applied by Admiralty Courts in
this class of cases until the recent decision of the Explorer, 20
Fed. Rep. 135, 139, by Judge Pardee, in the Fifth Circuit, has
been the wholesome rule that the libellant cannot recover
when his own negligence has contributed to the accident.
Such is the rule of the common law. And the civil law from
which the principles of the admiralty law are freely drawn is
on this point in accord with the common law. Wharton on
Negligence, § 300.
Judge Pardee finds his sole foundation for his decision in
the case of the Ee.plorer in certain dida of Justice Story in
the case of Marianno lora, 11 Wheat. 1, decided by the

OCTOBER TERAM, 1890.
Argument for Appellant.

Supreme Court in 1826. The Marianna Flora was a prize
case, in which the captured vessel was declared by the District
Court "no prize," and the matter under the consideration of
the Supreme Court was whether the captured vessel should
recover damages for her arrest. The Supreme Court denied
her claim for damages upon the ground that the circumstances
attending the seizure were, through the indiscretions of the
7MaricnnaFlora,such as to justify the commander of the cruiser,
in the fair exercise of his judgment, in making the seizure.
In: effect the Supreme Court said: the .M2ariannaFlorahaving
contributed to the seizure by her own negligence, cannot
recover damages. But in the course of their opinion they
made certain dicta respecting the power of the Court to give
or to withhold damages, such as "in cases of marine torts
courts of admiralty are in the habit of giving or withholding
damages upon enlarged principles of justice and equity," and
"they have exercised a conscientious discretion upon the subject," which Judge Pardee has construed in such manner as to
sustain his decision.
Though the .MariannaFlorawas decided sixty years ago,
it had never been deemed to refer to other than prize cases.
It is significant that in every case in which a decree has been
given in favor of a landsman for personal injuries, there is an
express finding that the libellant was free from any fault.
"The libellant was in no manner negligent or in fault, whereby
he contributed to his said injury." Leathers v. Blessing, 105
U. S. 626. "The libellant was guilty of no negligence"
(Judge Benedict). The CalistaHawes, 14 Fed. Rep. 493. "The
libellant was not in any degree in fault for the falling of the
dunnage" (Judge Benedict). Tie Eate Cann, 2 Fed. Rep. 241,
affirmed, 8 Fed. Rep. '719. "The proofs do not justify an
inf6rence that the libellant was negligent" (Judge Wallace).
Te Rheola, 19 Fed. IRep. 926. Judge Deady expressly held
"contributory negligence is a defense to the action," the claim
being prosecuted in the Admiralty Court by a libel inpersonam.
Holmes v. Oregon'& ColoradoRailway, 5 Fed. Rep. 523, 528.
And again, Judge Deady held: "Admitting the negligence of
the-matb, and that the master or owner and the vessel are liable

THE MAX MORRIS.
Argument for Appellant.

therefor, still ifthe negligence of the libellant substantially conti-ibuted toproduce the injury, he could not recover damage
therefor." The Chandos,4 Fed. Rep. 645, 649. Judge Blatchford has stated the rule as follows: "The owner of the vessel is
liable inpersonamand the vessel is liable in 'rem for injuries done
to person or property by the negligence of the master and crew
of the vessel, only where the owner would, under the same circumstances, be liable in a suit at common law." The Ge'mania, 9 Ben. 356. And in a case decided two months later
than the Exlorer, Judge Pardee seems to have modified his
novel views. He says: "Nor in the admiralty should one, as
a general rule, be compensated in damages who has, by his
own fault, contributed to bring about his own injury." The
. B. Ward, Jr., 20 Fed. Rep. 702, 704.
The admiralty rule of division of damages, applicable to
collision cases, has never been applied to cases of personal
injuries.
The rule of dividing damages in case of mutual fault,
applies only to collision cases, and arose probably from the
fact that, in such cases, damages were sustained by both
parties; and that the collision occurred, not through the
personal negligence of either of the ship-owners, but through
the negligence of their servants.
Cleirac calls it a judieiuin r'usticun? (Us et Coutumes de lh
_2sre), and his commentator, Mr. Bell, translates his words as
follows: "This rule of division is a rustic sort of determination
and such as arbiters and amicable compromisers of disputes
commonly follow where they cannot discover the motives of
the parties when they are faulty on both sides," Bell's Comm.
5th ed. 581.
This rule was not recognized by the Supreme Court in collision cases until 1854. Up to that time, apparently, collisions
in which both vessels were in fault, were not as common as
they are now-a-days, for Judge Nelson said: "It becomes
necessary to settle the rule of damages in a case where both
vessels are in fault. The question, we believe, has never until
now come before the Cou't.for decision. The rule that prevails in the District and Circuit Courts, we understand, has

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellant.

been to divide the loss. This seems now to be the well-settled rule in the English admiralty. . . . Under the circumstances usually attending these disasters,we think the rule
dividing the loss the most just and equitable." The Schooner
Catherine, 17 How. 173. Snow v. COarruth, 1 Sprague, 324, is
in no way pertinent. There was no suggestion there of contributory negligence.
Not only has the wholesome doctrine that the contributory
negligence of the libellant defeats an action in the Admiralty
Court for personal injuries been uniformly observed until
Judge Pardee's decision in the Explorer, but the more severe
rule that a servant cannot recover for injuries sustained
through the negligence of a fellow servant has been accepted
and enforced. Judge Lowell applied it in the Massachusetts
Circuit. Th7e Victoria, 13 Fed. Rep. 43. And in the Southern
District of New York, Judge Brown followed the rule to its
extremest limit. The Harold, 21 Fed. Rep. 428. And the
municipal or common law doctrine was also applied by the
Circuit Court in New York, affirming, The Edith Godden,
23 Fed. Rep. 43. It is inconsistent to say that a servant who
has been injured through his own negligence can recover half
his damages, while he who has been without fault and has
been injured through the negligence of his fellow servant can
recover nothing.
The learned Circuit Judge (Judge Wallace) who wrote for
affirmance of the decree of the District Court apparently
doubted the correctness of the rule adopted by Judge Pardee
in the Explorer, 20 Fed. Rep. 135, and followed by Judge
Brown in the District Court. He held himself bound, however, by the decision of this Court in Atlee v. The Packet Co.,
21 Wall. 389. But the language of the court, in that case
(p. 395), after adverting to the fact that this action might
have been brought in a common-law court instead of the
Admiralty Court, is: "In the common-law court the defendant must pay all the damages or none. . . . By the rule of
the admiralty court, where there has been such contributory
negligence, or, in other words, when both have been in fault,
the entire damages resultingfromthe collision must be equally

THE MAX MIORRIS.

7.

Opinion of the Court.

divided between the parties." The rule of apportionment was
recognized only as a rule applicable to collisions.
The decree cannot be sustained by the rule that when a seaman falls sick or sustains injury in the service of his vessel
certain responsibilities as to care and attention devolve upon
the vessel. The City of Alexandria, 17 Fed. Rep. 390.
The learned District Judge heard argument upon this point,
but very justly held that the rule was not applicable.
The rule, as respects seamen, is a proper one, though it
seems that it is not enforceable if the sickness or injury of the
seaman is occasioned by his own fault. Curtis' Rights and
Duties of Seamen, 109.
Seamen may be injured or fall sick in a far distant foreign
port, and it would be inhuman to leave them there without
care.
There are even statutory provisions for the payment of their
expenses home and for their support in hospitals.
But the responsibility of the ship extends only to the end of
the voyage for which the seaman was shipped, or until the
seaman reaches his home port. The Atlantic, Abbott's Admiralty, 451; Nevitt v. Clarke, Olcott, 316; The Ben Flint, 1
Abbott, U. S.126. No such responsibility rests upon the .Max
Norris with reference to the libellant. The reason for the rule
does not exist as to him. He was injured at his home. He
was not in a foreign port. He was treated and cured at a
public hospital. His engagement as a longshoreman extended
only from hour to hour.
Even a seaman has no claim upon his ship for a period
beyond the time for which he has shipped or contracted for.
The Atlantic, Abbott's Adm. 451.
Mr1k. James A. Patrickfor Curry, libellant and appellee.
M . JUSTICE BLATOHFORD, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

The question discussed in the opinions of Judge Brown and
Judge Wallace, and presented to us for decision, is whether

OCTOBER TER1l, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the libellant was debarred from the recovery of any sum of
money, by reason of the fact that his own negligence contributed to the accident, although there was negligence also,
in the officers of the vessel. The question presented by the
certificate is really that question, although stated in the certificate to be whether the libellant, under the facts presented,
was entitled to a decree "for divided damages." It appears
from the opinion of the District Judge that he imposed upon
the claimant "some part of the damage" which his concurrent
negligence occasioned, while it does not appear from the
record that the award of the $150 was the result of an equal
division of the damages suffered by the libellant, or a giving
to him of exactly one-half, or of more or less than one-half, of
such damages.
The particular question bef6re us has never been authoritatively passed upon by this court, and is, as stated by the District Judge in his opinion, whether, in a court of admiralty, in
a case like the present, where personal injuries to the libellant
arose from his negligence concurring with that of the vessel,
any damages can be awarded, or whether the libel must be
dismissed, according to the rule in common law cases.
The doctrine of an equal division of damages in admiralty,
in the case of a collision between two vessels, where both are
guilty of fault contributing to the collision, had long been the
rule in England, but was first established by this court in the
case of Tke Schooner Catherine v. .Dickinson, 17 How. 170,
and has been applied by it to cases where, both vessels being
in fault, only one of them was injured, as well as to cases
where both were injured, the injured vessel, in the first case,
recovering only one-half of its damages, and, in the second
case, the damages suffered by the two vessels being added
together and equally divided, and the vessel whose damages
exceeded such one-half recovering the excess against the other
vessel. In the case of The Schooner Catherine v. DicTkinson,
(supra,) both vessels being held in fault for the collision, it
was said by the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Nelson, p. 177,
that the well-settled rule in the English admiralty was "to
divide the loss," and that "under the circumstances usually

THE MIAX 'MORRIS.
Opinion of the Court.

attending these disasters" the court thought "the rule dividing
the loss the most just and equitable, and as best tending to
induce care and vigilance on both sides, in the navigation."

This rule, recognized as one of an equal division of the loss,
has been applied by this court in the following cases: Rogees
v. Steamee St. Charles, 19 How. 108; C]iacmberlain v. Ward,
21 How. 548; The W7ashington, 9 Wall. 513; The Sapphire,
11 Wall. 164; The Ai'iadne, 13 Wall. 475; The Continental,
14 Wall. 345; Atlee v. Packet Co., 21 Wall. 389; The Teutonia,
23 Wall. 77; The Sunnyside, 91 U. S. 208; Tie America, 92
U. S. 432; The Alabama, 92 U. S. 695; The Atlas, 93 U. S.
302; The Juniata,93 U. S.. 337; The Stephen Alorgan, 94
U. S. 599 ; Thie Virginia Ehrman, 97 U. S. 309 ; The City of
Hiarfoi'd,97 U. S. 323; The Civilta, 103 U. S. 699; The Conneetiv.tt, 103 U. S. 710; The .Aorth Star, 106 U. S. 17; The
Sterling, 106 U. S. 647; and The .anitoba, 122 U. S. 97.
It may be well to refer particularly to some of these cases,
which have a bearing upon the present question. In the case
of The Washington, two vessels were held in fault for a collision which resulted in injuries to an innocent passenger on one
of them, who proceeded against both in the same libel. This
court held that the damages to the passenger ought to be
apportioned equally between the. two vessels, with a reservation of a right in the libellant to collect the entire amount
from either of them, in case of the inability of the other to
respond for her portion. In that case, the rule of the equal
division of damages was extended to damages other than those
sustained by either or both of the vessels in fault.
In Atlee v. Packet Co., a barge owned by the libellant was
sunk by striking a stone pier owned by the respondent, built
in the navigable part of the Mississippi River. Both parties
being found in fault by the District Court, that court divided
the damages sustained by the libellant, and rendered a decree
against the owner of the pier for one-half of them. The Circuit Court held the owner of the pier to be wholly in fault,
and decreed the entire damage against him. He having
appealed, this court, after two hearings of the case, reversed
the decree of the Circuit Court and reinstated that of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

District Court. In the opinion of this court, delivered by Mr.
Justice Miller, the case is treated as one of collision. The
pier having been placed by the respondent in the navigable
water of the Mississippi River without authority of law, this
court held him to be responsible for the damages sustained by
the libellant from the striking of the pier by the barge. It
held also that there was negligence on the part of the barge,
and said (p. 395): "But the plaintiff has elected to bring his
suit in an admiralty court, which has jurisdiction of the case,
notwithstainding the concurrent right to sue at law. In this
court the course of proceeding is in many respects different and
the rules of decision are different. The mode of pleading is different, the proceeding more summary and informal, and neither
party has a right to trial by jury. An important difference
as regards this case is the rule for estimating the damages.
In the common law court the defendant must pay all the damages or none. If there has been on the part of the plaintiffs
such carelessness or want of skill as the common law would
esteem to be contributory negligence, they can recover nothing. By the rule of the Admiralty Court, where there has been
such contributory negligence, or, in other words, when both
have been in fault, the entire damages resulting from the collision must be equally divided between the parties. This rule
of the admiralty commends itself quite as favorably in its
influence in securing practical justice as the other; and the
plaintiff who has the selection of the forum in which he will
litigate cannot complain of the rule of that forum." This
court, therefore, treated the case as if it had been one of a
collision between two vessels.
The case of The Alabama was like that of The Washington,
where an innocent party recovered damages against two vessels, both of which were in fault in a collision. In that case,
it is said in the opinion of the court, delivered by Mr. Justice
Bradley (p. 697), that "the moiety rule has been adopted for
a better distribution of justice between mutual wrongdoers;
and it ought not to be extended so far as to inflict positive loss
on innocent parties."
The case of The Atlas was that of a suit against the Atlas

THE MAX MORRIS.
Opinion of the Court.

by an insurance company for the loss of a canal-boat and her
cargo while she was in tow of a tug, through a collision
between the Atlas and the tug. The tug was not sued. The
District and Circuit Courts, in view of the fact that the collision was caused by the mutual fault of the Atlas and the
tug, decreed to the libellant, against the Atlas, one-half of its
damages. This court held that, as the owner of the cargo
which was on board of the canal-boat was not in fault, the
libellant was entitled to recover the entire amount of its damages from the Atlas, the tug not having been brought inas a
party to the suit. By Rule 59 in Admiralty, promulgated
by this court, March 26, 1883, 112 U. S. '743, the claimant or
respondent in a suit for damage by collision may compel the
libellant to bring in another vessel or party alleged to have
been in fault.
The case of -The Juniata is worthy of attention. In that
case, one Pursglove, the owner of a steam-tug, filed a libel
against the Juniata to recover for damage sustained by the
tug by a collision bbtween it and the Juniata, and also damages for personal injuries to himself. The District Court held
both vessels to have been in fault, and made a decree of
$10,000 in favor of Pursglove, for one~half of his damages.
This decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court and by this
court. It is quite evident from the report of the case that
damages were awarded to Pursglove for his personal injuries,
although his tug was held to have been in fault.
Some of the cases referred to show that this court has extended the rule of the division of damages to claims other than
those for damages to the vessels which were in fault in a
collision.
In England, the common law rule that i plaintiff who is guilty
of contributory negligence can recover nothing, was made by
statute to yield to the admiralty rule in respect to damages
arising out of a collision between two ships, by subdivision (9)
of section 25 of chap. 66 of 36 & 37 Yict., being the Judicature Act of August 5, 1873, L. R. 8 Stat. 321, which provides
as follows: "(9) In any cause or proceeding for damages
arising out of a collision between two ships, if both ships shall

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

be found to have been in fault, the rules in force in the Court
of Admiralty, so far as they have been at variance with the
rules in force in the Courts of Common Law, shall prevail."
The same provision was enacted in the same language by subdivision (9) of section 28 of chap. 57 of 40 & 41 'Fict., being
the Judicature Act in relation to Ireland, of August 14, 1877.
L. R. 12 Stat. 362.
The Admiralty rule of the division of damages was laid
down by Sir William Scott, in 1815, in The TWoodrop-Sims, 9
Dodson, 83, 85, where he says that if a loss occurs through a
collision between two vessels, where both parties are to blame,
the rule of law is "that the loss must be apportioned between
them, as having been occasioned by the fault of both of them."
This rule was approved by the House of Lords, on an appeal
from Scotland, in Hay v. Le .2Teve, 2 Shaw, 395, in 1824.
The rule of the equal apportionment of the loss where both
parties were in fault would seem to have been founded upon
the difficulty of determining, in such cases, the degree of negligence in the one and the other. It is said by Cleirac (Us et
Coutumes de la lMer, p. 68) that such rule of division is a rustic
sort of determination, and such as arbiters and amicable compromisers of disputes commonly follow, where they cannot
discover the motives of the parties, or when they see faults on
both sides.
As to the particular question now presented for decision,
there has been a conflict of opinion in the lower courts of the
United States. In the case of Peterson v. The Chandos,4 Fed.
Rep. 645, 649, in the District Court for the District of Oregon,
which was a libel in admiralty against a vessel, for a personal
injury, it was said by Judge Deady, that the libellant could
not recover for an injury caused by his own negligence, which
contributed, to the result, even though the vessel was in fault.
The same rule was recognized by him, in the same court, in a
suit in admiralty, in Holmes v. Oregon Railway, 5 Fed. Rep.
523, 538,1 and by Judge Hughes, in the District Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia, in The .Manhasset,19 Fed. Rep. 430.
On the other hand, Judge Pardee, in the Circuit Court for
1 In Olsen v. Rlavel, 34 Fed. Rep. 477, Judge Deady distinctly held the law
to be in accordance with the decision in the present case.

THE M AX M2ORRIS.
Opinion of the Court.

the Eastern District of Louisiana, in T/he Explorer, 20 Fed.
Rep. 135, and The TFanderer, 20 Fed. Rep. 140, cases in admiralty where the libellant sued for personal injuries, and he and
the vessel were both held in fault, laid it down as a rule, that,
in cases of marine torts, courts of admiralty could exercise a
conscientious discretion, and give or withhold damages upon
enlarged principles of justice and equity. In the first of those
cases, the court allowed to the libellant $280 for the loss of 40
days' time, at $7 a day, and the sum of $40 paid by him for
his admission to a hospital, and the costs of the case, as the
vessel's share of the expenses resulting from the injury to
which the vessel contributed through the negligence of her
master and officers. In the other case, it was held that, while
the libellant could not be rewarded for his negligence at the
expense of the vessel, she should be held responsible for her
negligence, to the extent of paying for the direct care, attention, medical services and expenses required for the libellant.
These last two cases proceed upon the same principle that
appears to have been adopted by the District and Circuit
Courts in the present case; and the same view was applied by
the District Court for the Eastern District of New York, in
The Truro, 31 Fed. Rep. 158; and by the District Court for
the Eastern District of Virginia, in T e Eddystone, 33 Fed.
Rep. 925. This principle, it is contended, is sanctioned by the
language used by this court in The .Marianna Flora, 11
Wheat. 1, 541: "Even in cases of marine torts, independent of
prize, courts of admiralty are in the habit of giving or withholding damages upon enlarged principles of justice and
equity, and have not circumscribed themselves within the positive boundaries of mere municipal law;" and in The Palmyra,
12 Wheat. 1, 17: "In the admiralty, the award of damages
always rests in the sound discretion of the court, under all the
circumstances."
The rule of giving one-half of the damages has been applied
by the District and Circuit Courts in the Southern District of
New York, in cases where a boat and her cargo were lost or
damaged through negligence on the part of a steam-tug which
towed the boat, where there was fault also on the papt of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

boat. Those were not cases of collision, and there was no
damage to the steam-tug, and she alone was sued for the loss.
Such cases were those of The William 3furaugh, 3 Fed. Rep.
404, and 17 Fed. Rep. 260; The William Cox, 3 Fed. Rep. 645,
affirmed by the Circuit Court, 9 Fed. Rep. 672; Connolly v.
Ross, 11 Fed. Rep. 342; The Bordentown, 16 Fed. Rep. 270.
Also, in cases where the vessel towed was held to be in fault
for not being in proper condition, Pila.Railroad Co. v.
New England Transportation Co., 24 Fed. Rep. 505; and
where a boat was injured by striking the bottom of a slip, in
unloading at the respondent's elevator, the boat herself being
also in fault, Christian v. Van Tassel, 12 Fed. Rep. 884; and
where the vessel towed was old and unseaworthy, The Syracuse, 18 Fed. Rep. 828; The Reba, 22 Fed. Rep. 546. In Snow
v. Carruth,1 Sprague, 324, in the District Court for the District of Massachusetts, damage to goods carried by a vessel on
freight was attributable partly to the fault of the carrier and
partly to the fault of the shipper; and, it being impossible to
ascertain for what proportion each was responsible, the loss
was divided equally between them.
All these were cases in admiralty, and were not cases of
collision between two vessels. They show an amelioration of
the common law rule, and an extension of the admiralty rule
in a direction which we think is manifestly just and proper.
Contributory negligence, in a case like the present, should not
wholly bar recovery. There would have been no injury to the
libellant but for the fault of the vessel; and while, on the one
hand, the court ought not to give him full compensation for
his injury, where he himself was partly in fault, it ought not,
on the other hand, to be restrained from saying that the fact
of his negligence should not deprive him of all recovery of
damages. As stated by the District Judge in his opinion in
the present case, the more equal distribution of justice, the dictates of humanity, the safety of life and limb and the public
good, will be best promoted by holding vessels liable to bear
some part of the actual pecuniary loss sustained by the libellant, in a case like the present, where their fault is clear, provided the libellant's fault, though evident, is neither wilful,

YORK v. TEXAS.
Statement of the Case.

nor gross, nor inexcusable, and where the other circumstances
present a strong case for his relief. We think this rule is applicable to all like cases of marine tort founded upon negligence and prosecuted in admiralty, as in harmony with the
rule for the division of damages in cases of collision. The
mere fact of the negligence of the libellant as partly occasioning the injuries to him, when they also occurred partly through
the negligence of the officers of the vessel, does not debar him
entirely from a recovery.
The necessary conclusion is, that the question whether the
libellant, upon the facts found, is entitled to a decree for
divided damages, must be answered in the affirmative, in
accordance with the judgment below. This being the only
question certified, and the amount in dispute being insufficient
to give this court jurisdiction of the whole case, our jurisdiction is limited .to reviewing this question. Chicago Union
Bank v. Yansaq City Bank, 136 U. S. 223. Whether, in a
case like this, the decree should be for exactly one-half of the
damages sustained; or might, in the discretion of the court, be
for a greater or less proportion of such damages, is a question
not presented for our determination upon this record, and we
express no opinion upon it.
.Decees affrmed.

YORK v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO'THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 999.

Submitted October 21, 1890. -Decided

November 3, 1890.

The provisions in the Revised Statutes of Texas, Articles 1242-1245, which,
as construed by the highest court of the State, convert an appearance by
a defendant for the sole purpose of questioning the jurisdiction of the
court, into a general appearance and submission to the jurisdiction of
the court, do not violate the provision in the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution which forbids a State to deprive any person of life,
liberty or property without due process of law.

ON the 14th day of November, 1888, a personal judgment
was rendered in the District Court of Travis County, Texas,

