OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

by us in respect to the first point be sound, he had no such
right, after permitting the period to elapse within which he
could bring suit to compel the execution of a conveyance or
lease. A statute of limitation cannot be said to impair the
obligation of a contract, or to deprive one of property without
due process of law, unless, in its application to an existing
right of action, it unreasonably limits the opportunity to
enforce that right by suit.

Judgment affrimed.
MACFARLAND V. JACKSON. Error to the Supreme Court of the
State of New York. No. 66. Argued November 11, 1890. Decided
November 24, 1890. MR. JUSTICE -HARLAN delivered the opinion
of the court. This case presents the same questions that are disposed of in the above opinion. For the reasons therein stated the
judgment is

.Ar. John ,T Townsend for plaintiff in error.

Affirmed.

.ir. Almet F. Jenkcs for defendant in error.

DOBSON v. LEES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 48. Argued October 31,1890.-Decided December 1, 1890.

A reissue of letters patent is an amendment, and cannot be allowed to
enlarge the claims of the original by including matter once intentionally
omitted.
Such intentional omission may be shown by conduct, and the inventor cannot be permitted to treat deliberate and long continued acts of his attorney as other than his own.
In this case there is no room for the contention that there was any inadvertence, accident or mistake attending the issue of the original patent, and
the reissue was correctly held to be invalid.
IN EQUITY for the infringement of letters patent. Decree
dismissing the bill. Plaintiffs- appealed. The case is stated
in the opinion.

DOBSON v. LEES.
Opinion of the Court.

-Y. Francis . Ohambers for appellants.
Mr. Rector T. Fenton for appellees.
MR.

CHiEF JusTicE

FuLLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was a bill exhibited by John Dobson, James Dobson
and James Greaves against James Lees and others, for infringement of reissued letters patent ]No. 10,054, Division A, dated
March 7, 1882, in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and upon hearing on
pleadings and proofs dismissed by the court: The opinion
will be found reported in 30 Fed. Rep. 625.
It appears from the record that James Greaves applied
September 30, 1872, for a patent for an "improvement in condensing cylinders for carding engines," the proposed claim
being: "The application, as described, of cast iron spindles
to the condensing cylinders of carding engines." He stated in
the specification: "The object of my invention is to furnish
the condensing cylinders of carding engines with spindles of
a more durable character than those in common use, and this
object I attain by making such spindles of cast iron instead of
wrought iron or steel.

.

.

.

It is not essential that the

spindle, when it passes through the wheel, should in all cases
be round. It may, for instance, be square, in which case the
feather may be dispensed with."
This application was rejected October 29, 1872, and again
rejected December 7, 1872. On the 7th of December, 1874,
the following was substituted for the claim: "A spindle for
carding machine rollers, rectangular in form, for the purpose
set forth." This amendment was followed by a redrawn
specification, the claim of which was as follows : "The combination, substantially as described, of the condensing cylinder
of a carding engine, the driving wheel A, the hub of which
has a square or angular aperture, and the spindle X, having
a corresponding shape imparted to that portion of it which
slides through the said hub, all as set forth." This specifica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tion was accompanied by a new sheet of drawings marked
"sheet 2," the drawings originally filed being marked "sheet
1," and by a new model. A new oath of invention was required and made, dated January 22, 1875. On the 27th of
January the claim of the amended specification was rejected
upon reference to Davison and Crowther's English patent
No. 2885/of 1856, and others; again rejected on the 26th of
February in view of that reference, and also of the patents
of ]larraday, of May 30, 1854, No. 10,986, and of Warth, of
August 6, 1872, Nos. 130,343 and 130,344; again, on March
31, 1875; again, on appeal to the board of examiners in chief,
August 7, 1875; and again, by the Commissioner on appeal
to him, November 11, 1875. There having been a change of
attorneys, on the 12th of October, 1876, an amended specification was filed, and rejection again followed, November 27,
1876. The specification was again amended November 29, so
as .to set up these two claims:
"1st. The combination, in a carding engine, of a condensing or rubber cylinder, a driving wheel, and a polygonallyshaped horizontal shaft or spindle, the latter being adapted to
be revolved and at the same time to be continuously reciprocated in a correspondingly polygonally-shaped bearing, and a
continuously reciprocating rubber, substantially as and for the
purposes described.
"2d. In a carding engine, the combination of a continuously
reciprocating rubber, a driving wheel to turn said rubber, and
a horizontal shaft or spindle connecting the two together, said
shaft or spindle and the bearing in which it reciprocates being
both made of cast iron, or both of metal having the sanP6
crystalline structure, whereby in the reciprocating action the
tendency of the crystalline particles of cast metal in the bearing to wear the spindle will be resisted by the crystalline particles of the latter, substantially as and for the purposes
described."
This application was rejected December 1. The applicant
appealed, and on December 2 the examiner reported that he
had rejected the first claim, which did not then require that
the spindle and bearing should be of cast iron, upon the

DOBSON v. LEES.
Opinion of the Court.

ground that its non-patentability was 'es adjudicaa,so far as
the examiner was concerned; and that the second claim was
rejected because the substitution of the cast metal shaft for
the wrought metal or steel shaft, before employed, required
no invention. The examiners in chief, on the 15th of December, reversed the examiner's decision as to the second claim,
but affirmed it as to the first, holding, however, that if the
first claim were amended so as to include "cast iron or metal
of the same crystalline structure" for bearing and spindle,
they thought it would be admissible. The first claim was
accordingly amended by the insertion, after the word "bearLug," of the words "said bearing and said shaft or spindle being of cast iron or of metal of the same crystalline structure."
On the 11th of January, 1877, an interference was declared
between these claims and the application of one Stone, and on
the 8th of February, 1877, the examiner refused a motion to
dissolve the interference, upon the ground that the feature
which Greaves relied on as not shown in the Stone invention
was that Greaves' shaft and bearing were made of cast iron
or metal having the same crystalline structure, while Stone's
were of cast brass, which would come within the scope of
Greaves' claims. It was held by the Assistant Commissioner,
on appeal, on the 9th of February, that "as cast brass has not
the same crystalline structure as cast iron, the application of
Greaves, if so amended in its claims as to restrict him to the
use of metal having the same crystalline structure Ias cast
iron,' will not interfere with an application showing and
describing 'cast brass,' if the material is of the essence of the
invention." Applicant accordingly so amended February 9,
the interference was dissolved February 10, and the patent
was issued February 20, 1877.
The result of all this was, that after repeated attempts and
repeated rejections, the patent was allowed, containing two
claims, limited strictly to a shaft and bearing of cast iron or
of metal of the same crystalline structure as cast iron. These
claims were as follows:
"1. The combination, in a carding engine, of a condensing
or rubber cylinder, a driving wheel, and a polygonally-shaped

OCTOBER TERM; 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

horizontal shaft or spindle, the latter being adapted to be
revolved, and at the same time to be continuously reciprocated
in a correspondingly polygonally-shaped bearing, said bearing
and said shaft or spindle being of cast iron or of metal of the
same crystalline structure as cast iron, and a continuously
reciprocating rubber, substantially as and for the purposes
described.
"2. In a carding engine, the combination of a continuously
reciprocating rubber, a driving wheel to turn said rubber, and
a horizontal shaft or spindle connecting the two together, said
shaft or spindle and the bearing in which it reciprocates being
both made of cast iron, or both of metal having the same
crystalline structure as cast iron, whereby in the reciprocating
action the tendency of the crystalline particles of cast metal
in the bearing to wear the spindle will be resisted by the crystalline particles of the latter, substantially as and for the purposes described."
Applications were then filed for a reissue in two divisions,
A and B -for division A on March 24, 1877, and for division
B on iNarch 15, 1877.
Division B contained both of the claims of the original
patent, and reissued letters patent No. 9477 were granted
therefor under date of November 23, 1880.
The claim in Division A was as follows:
"In a carding engine, a condensing or rubber cylinder
mounted on a polygonally-shaped horizontal shaft, in combination with a driving gear; A, having a sleeve-shaped bearing, b,
said shaft and cylinder being adapted to be revolved by the
drive-wheel A, and at the same time to be rapidly and continuously reciprocated by suitable mechanism, substantially as
and for the purposes described."
And for this, reissued letters patent No. 10,054 were granted
March 7, 1882, and this is the patent in controversy. Before
it was passed for issue, various proceedings were had in the
Patent Office, including rejections, appeals, aind disposal of an
interference between this application and that of Stone, and it
appears by the statement of Examiner Appleton, under date
of December 5, 1881, that after the determination of the

DOBSON v. LEES.
Opinion of the Court.

interference the application was returned to the examiner,
"with instructions to consider whether or not, in view of certain recent decisions of the Supreme Court of the United
States, the same in its present form can properly be allowed."
The examiner was clearly of opinion that under the decisions
of this court in Powder Company v. Powder Woks, 98 U. S.
126; Leggett v. Avery, 101 U. S. 256; -Manufaeturing Co. v.

Ladd, 102 U. S. 408; and -Goodyear -Dental 7 ulcanite .Rubber Co. v. -Davis,102 U. S. 222, the applicant was not entitled
to the claim presented, "said applicant having withdrawn a
similar claim in his original application in order to obtain his
original patent, and the present claim being for a different
invention from that covered by the original patent." And
in his statement of grounds of decision, under date of January 27, 1882, the examiner gave as his reasons: "In the first
place, this claim, being for a combination of parts of peculiar
construction, while the original is for a combination of parts
when some of the same are constructed of particular metals,
the metals being the gist of the claim thereof, is for a different invention from that covered by the original patent. In
the second place, the claim now in controversy having been
withdrawn from the application upon which the original
patent was granted, with a full knowledge of all the facts in
the case, it cannot be urged that such withdrawal of the claim,
or any other change that the appellant now desires to make,
was the result of or necessitated by any inadvertence, accident,
or mistake, for which alone corrections by reissue can be
made." The letter of allowance bears date February 15,
1882.
The Circuit Court held that the only claim in the reissue
was for a combination not claimed in or covered by the original patent, and hence not for the same invention; that the
claim in the reissue was before the commissioner and its allowance urged by the patentee through his solicitor, but was not
allowed, and w~s therefore -stricken out, and the patent accepted without this claim; that the court could not distinguish betwen the patentee and his counsel as to what occurred
luring the pendency of the application for the patent, and, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

to its acceptance by the latter, the patentee must be regarded
as bound by the acts of his counsel; and that, under the circumstances, the case fell clearly within Leggett v. Avery, 101
U. S. 256.
In Leggett v. Avery, thus referred to, Mr. Justice Bradley,
speaking for the court, said: "We think it was a manifest
error of the commissioner, in the reissue, to allow to the

patentee a claim for an invention different from that which
was described in the surrendered letters, and which he had
thus expressly disclaimed. The pretence that an 'error had
arisen by inadvertence, accident, or mistake,' within the meaning of the patent law, was too bald for consideration. The
very question of the validity of these claims had just been
considered and decided with the acquiescence and the express
disclaimer of the patentee. If, in any case, where an applicant for letters patent, in order to obtain the issue thereof,
disclaims a particular invention, or acquiesces in the rejection
of a claim thereto, a reissue containing such claim is valid,
(which we greatly doubt,) it certainly cannot be sustained in
this cage. The allowance of claims once formally abandoned
by the applicant, in order to get his letters patent through, is
the occasion of immense frauds against the public. It not
unfrequently happens that, after an application has been carefully examined and compared with previous inventions, and
after the claims which such an examination renders admissible
have been settled with the acquiescence of the applicant, he,
or his assignee, when that investigation is forgotten and perhaps new officers have been appointed, comes back to the
Patent Office, and, under the pretence of inadvertence and
mistake in the first specification, gets inserted into reissued
letters all that had been previously rejected. In this manner,
without an appeal, he gets the first decision of the office reversed, steals a march on the public, and on those who before
opposed his pretensions, (if, indeed, the latter have not been
silenced by purchase,) and procures a valuable monopoly to
which he has not the slightest title. We have more than once
expressed our disapprobation of this practice. As before remarked, we consider it extremely doubtful whether reissued

DOBSON v. LEES.
Opinion of the Court.

letters can be sustained in any case where they contain claims
that have once been formally disclaimed, by the patentee, or
rejected with his acquiescence, and he has consented to such
rejection in order to obtain his letters patent. Under such
circumstances, the rejection of the claim can in no just sense
be regarded as a matter of inadvertence or mistake. Even
though it were such, the applicant should seem to be estopped
from setting it up on an application for a reissue." 101 U. S.
259, 260. See also 2fanufactwr'ing Co. v. Ladd, 102 U. S.
408.
A reissue is an amendment, and cannot be allowed unless
the imperfections in the original patent arose without fraud,
and from inadvertence, accident or mistake. Rev. Stat. ยง 4916.
Hence the reissue cannot be permitted to enlarge the claims
of the original patent by including matter once intentionally
omitted. Acquiescence in the rejection of a claim; its withdrawal by amendment, either to save the application or to
escape an interference; the acceptance of a patent containing
limitations imposed by the Patent Office, which narrow the
scope of the invention as at first described and claimed; are
instances of such omission. Union .Afetallic Car'ridge Co. v.
United State. Car'tridge Co., 112 U. S. 624; Shepard v. Carrigan, 116 U. S. 593; -Roerner v. Peddie, 132 U. S. 313; Yale
-Look Co. v. Berkshire Bank, 135 U. S. 34,2, 379, and cases
cited.
It is clear that the claim of this reissue is not covered by
the original patent, and it appears that before the issue of the
latter it was passed upon and rejected; was withdrawn and
erased; an interference was dissolved upon condition of the
amendment; and the issue of the original letters was predicated upon its abandonment. There is no room for the contention that there was any inadvertence, accident or mistake
in the premises. Nor, in the light of these protracted proceedings in the Patent Office, can the applicant be permitted to
treat the deliberate acts of his attorney as the result of inadvertence, accident or mistake. The repeated official decisions
and orders, and the repeated efforts to maintain this claim
without success, during this long struggle, indicate anything

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

but negligence or inadvertence on the part of the solicitors
employed.
The decree of the Circuit Court was right, and it is
Affirmed.

BROOM v. ARMSTRONG.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 40. Argued October 30, 1890.-Decided December 1,1890.

In Utah an action under the statute (ยง 3460 Compl. Laws Utah, 1888) to
foreclose a chattel mortgage, if commenced while the lien of the mortgage is good as against creditors and purchasers, keeps it alive, and continues it until the decree and sale perfect the plaintiff's rights, and pass
title to the purchaser.
Under ยง 3206 of the Compiled Laws of Utah, the rule of Its pendens applies
to an action to foreclose a mortgage of personal property.
The enforcement of a mortgagee's rights under a chattel mortgage by a suit
for foreclosure is commended as affording a safer and more adequate
remedy than is afforded by actual seizure and sale of the mortgaged
property, or by an action of replevin, detinue or trover.

TaHis case arose upon a complaint filed in the District Court
of Weber County, Utah Territory, on the 22d of July, 1885,
by James C. Armstrong, the appellee, against Mills H. Beardsley, to foreclose a mortgage of certain chattels, made January
14, 1885, by Beardsley to Armstrong, as security for the payment of his promissory note of that date to Armstrong, for the
sum of $8000, payable in four months, with interest from date
at one per cent per month, payable monthly from date until
paid, both before and after judgment, until maturity; and, if
not paid at maturity, ten per cent additional, as cost for collection; which mortgage was duly recorded, as provided by
the laws of the Territory.
On the 22d of September, thereafter, Armstrong, with leave
of the court, filed an amended complaint, making John Broom
and E. A. Whitaker parties defendant, in which he alleged
that the two defendants Broom and Whitaker, after the orig-

