OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

We regret that we find ourselves compelled to add some.
thing further. The printed argument of plaintiff in error
contains many allegations wholly aside from the charges made
in his complaint, and bearing reproachfully upon the moral
character of individuals, which are clearly impertinent and
scandalous, and unfit to be submitted to the court. It is our
duty to keep our records clean and free from scandal.
The brief of the plaintif in error will be stric en from the
files and the writ of error dismissed, and it is so ordered.

In
APPEAL

'e CONVERSE, Petitioner.

FROM THE CIOCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF 'MICHIGAN.
No. 1283. Argued and submitted December 18, 1890. -Decided

January 5,1891.

It is no defence to an indictment under one statute that a defendant might
also be punished under another statute.
A State cannot be deemed guilty of a violation of its obligations under the
Constitution of the United States because of a decision, even if erroneous,
of its highest court while acting within its jurisdiction.
When a person accused of crime within a State is subjected, like all other
persons in the State, to the law in its regular course of administration in
courts of justice, the judgment so arrived at cannot be held to be such
an unrestrained and arbitrary exercise of power as to be utterly void.
The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution was not designed to interfere with the power of a State to protect the lives, liberty and property
of its citizens, nor with the exercise of that power in the adjudictions
of the courts of the State in administering the process provided by its
laws.
In convicting the petitioner of embezzlement under section 9151 of Howel's Annotated Statutes of Michigan, upon his confessing that he had
been guilty of embezzlement as attorney-at-law, instead of under section
9152, the Supreme Court of Michigan did not exceed its jurisdiction, or
deliver a judgment which abridged his privileges or immunities, or
deprived hinm of the law of the land of his domicil.

THIS was a petition for a writ of habeas corpus upon the
ground that the petitioner is "deprived of his liberty without

IN RE CONVERSE.
Statement of the Case.

due process of law, contrary to the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States."
It appears from the record annexed to the petition that petitioner was arraigned in the Circuit Court for the county of
Calhoun in the State of Michigan, upon an information in the
words and figures following, to wit: "Herbert E. Winsor,
prosecuting attorney for the county of Calhoun aforesaid, for
and in behalf of the people of the State of Michigan, comes
into said court, in the December term thereof, A.D. 1887,.and
gives here to understand and be informed that Eugene M1.
Converse, late of the city of Battle Creek, in the county of
Calhoun and State of Michigan, heretofore, to wit, on the
twenty-eighth day of July, in the year one thousand eight
hundred and eighty-five, at the city of Battle Creek, in sai4,
county of Calhoun and State of Michigan, being then and
there agent to John E. Dunning and Daniel W. Hall, the
executors of the last will and testament of Rice Hall, deceased,
and being then and there the agent of them, the said John E.
Dunning and Daniel W. Hall, executors of the last will and
testament of Rice Hall, deceased, and not being then and
there an apprentice nor other person under the age of sixteen
years, did, by virtue of his said employment, then and there
and whilst he was such agent as aforesaid, receive and take
into his possession certain moneys to a large amount, to wit,
to the amount of four thousand dollars, of the value of four
thousand dollars, of the property of the said John E. Dunning and Daniel W. Hall, as such executors, and which said
money came to the possession of the said Eugene M. Converse
by virtue of said employment, and the said money then and
there fraudulently and feloniously did embezzle and convert to
his own use without the consent of the said John E. Dunning
and Daniel W. Hall, as such executors as aforesaid, his said
employers, and that so the said Eugene M. Converse did then
and there, in manner and form aforesaid, the said money, the
property of the said John E. Dunning and Daniel W. Hall,
as executors as aforesaid, his said employers, from the said
John E. Dunning and Daniel W. Hall, as such executors
as aforesaid, feloniously did steal, take, and carry away,
VOL.

-xxxvn-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

contrary to the form of the statute in such case made and
provided and against the peace and dignity of the people of
the State of Michigan;" and thereupon filed the following
"memorandum of plea:" "As an attorney-at-law I am guilty
of embezzlement of thirty-five hundred, $3500.00, dollars,
that being the amount collected and received by me less my
reasonable fees, as such attorney, for collecting the money;"
which plea was entered by the circuit judge thus: " Eugene
Ml. Converse, the respondent in this cause, having been duly
arraigned at the bar in open court and the information being
read to him by Herbert E. Winsor, prosecuting attorney,
pleaded thereto 'guilty of embezzlement of money to the
amount of three thousand five hundred dollars.'"
& On the 12th of December, 1887, judgment was entered in
these words:
"Eugene M. Converse, the respondent in this cause, having
been, upon his plea of guilty, duly convicted of the crime of
embezzlement, as appears by the record thereof, and the said
court having examined into the facts of the case, and having
also privately examined the respondent concerning the circumstances which induced him to plead guilty, and having therefrom ascertained that said plea was made freely, with full
knowledge of the nature of the accusation and without undue
influence, and the respondent thereafter having been, on motion
of the prosecuting attorney, brought to the bar of the court
for sentence, and having then and there been asked by the
court if he had anything to say why judgment should not be
pronounced against him, and alleging no reason to the contrary:
therefore it is ordered and adjudged by the said court, now
here, that said Eugene Al. Converse be confined in the State
prison at Jackson, Michigan, at hard labor, for the period of
five years from and including this day."
Petitioner was thereupon committed to the State prison in
accordance with the terms of said judgment.
September 11, 1888, this order was entered by the Calhoun
Circuit Court:
"In this cause a motion to amend the respondent's plea by
inserting the following words, 'As an attorney-at-law I am

IN RE CONVERSE.
Statement of the Case.

guilty of embezzlement of thirty-five hundred, $3500.00, dollars, that being the amount collected and received by me, less
my reasonable fees as such attorney for collecting the money,'
having been duly entered, and after reading and filing affidavits, and after hearing John C. Patterson, of counsel for
respondent, in favor of said motion, it is ordered by the court,
now here, that said motion be, and the same is hereby,
denied."
Application having been made to the Supreme Court of
Michigan in that behalf, the following order -was entered by
the Calhoun Circuit Court on the 3d of December, 1888:
"1Pursuant to an order of the Supreme Court made on the
ninth day of October, eighteen hundred and eighty-eight, and
on motion of John C. Patterson, attorney for the defendant
for the purpose of this motion, it is ordered that the entry of
the arraignment and plea of the said defendant in said cause,
entered on the fifth day of December, in the year one thousand eight hundred and eighty-seven, upon journal number
twelve of this court, at page 568, be, and the same is hereby,
corrected now as of the date last named, so as to read as follows, to wit:
" Eugene M. Converse, the respondent in this cause, having
been duly arraigned at the bar in open court and the information having been read to him by Herbert E. Winsor, prosecuting attorney, pleads thereto in the following words, to wit:
'As an attorney-at-law I am guilty of embezzlement of thirtyfive hundred dollars, that being the amount collected and
received by me, less my reasonable fees as such attorney for
collecting the money.' 1
The case was then taken to the Supreme Court of Michigan
by writ of error, the following errors being assigned: "First.
The court erred in rendering the judgment in said cause upon
the plea of the defendant pleaded therein. Second. There is
no sufficient plea in said cause to form a legal basis for the
judgment rendered thereon. Third. The judgnent is for a
felony and the plea is for a misdemeanor only, and the judgment is broader than the plea, and the penalty imposed is
unauthorized by the plea and statute. Fourth. The judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

against the defendant is for embezzlement in the capacity of
agent, and the defendant never pleaded guilty of such crime
and he has never been convicted of such crime by a jury. Fifth.
The information does not allege the money converted was the
property of any private person or partnership within the
statute, but avers it to be the property of the executors of an
estate;" and upon due consideration the judgment was
affirmed by that court. The opinion of the court was delivered by Sherwood, C. J., Champlin, Morse and Long, JJ.,
concurring, and Campbell, J., dissenting, and will be found
reported in Peope v. Converse, '(4 Michigan, 478.
The petition for the writ of habeas cor.pus alleged among
other things, that the information charged an offence under
section 9151 of Howell's Annotated Statutes of Michigan, and
that the petitionei: has never pleaded guilty to that offence in
manner and form as charged, but that he had pleaded guilty
of an offence or .misdemeanor under section 9152 of said statute, and that the Calhoun Circuit Court had no authority or
constitutional right to render the judgment against the petitioner, which was rendered.
The sections referred to are as follows:
"Section 9151. If any officer, agent, clerk, or servant of
any incorporated company, or of any city, township, incorporated town or village, school district or other public or
municipal corporation, or if any clerk, agent or servant of any
private persons, or of a copartnership, except apprentices and
other persons under the age of sixteen years, shall embezzle or
fraudulently dispose of or convert to his own use, or shall take
-orsecrete with intent to embezzle and convert to his own use
without consent of his employer or master, any money or
other property of another, which shall have come to his possession, or shall be under his charge by virtue of such office or
employment, he shall be deemed, by so doing, to have committed the crime of larceny.
"Section 9152. If any attorney-at-law, solicitor in chancery,
or other person holding himself out to the public to perform
the services usually performed by attorneys or solicitors, in
the management of causes, and the collection of judgments,

IN RE CONVERSE.
Statement of the Case.

decrees or other demands, or any register in chancery, clerk of
any court of record, sheriff, constable, justice of the peace, or
any other officer, shall collect or receive in such capacity any
money belonging to another, and shall neglect or refuse to pay
the same to the person entitled thereto within a reasonable
time after demand thereof, the person so neglecting or refusing,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction
thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment in the county jail
not more than one year, or by fine not exceeding four times the
amount of money so received, or both, at the discretion of
the court." 2 Howell's Annotated Stats. Michigan, p. 2220.
The petition further set forth "That due process of law in the State of Michigan is provided for and prescribed by the constitution and statutes of
said State in part by the following sections, to wit: 'In every
criminal prosecution, the accused shall have the right to a.
speedy and public trial by an impartial jury, which may consist of less than twelve men in all courts not of record; to be
informed of the nature of the accusation; to be confronted
with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory process
for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and have the assistance of
counsel for his defence.' Constitution of Michigan, Article
VI, Section 28.
"' 1o person shall be compelled, in any criminal case, to be
a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or
property, without due process of law.' Constitution of Michigan, Article VI, Section 32.
"'1No person indicted for an offence, shall be convicted
thereof, unless by confession of his guilt in open court, or by
admitting the truth of the charge against him, by his plea or
demurrer, or by the verdict of a jury, accepted and recorded
by the court.' 2 Howell's Annotated Stats. Michigan, p. 2205,
See. 9069.
"'No person who is charged with any offence against the
law, shall be punished for such offence, unless he shall have
been duly and legally convicted thereof, in a court having
competent jurisdiction of the cause and of the person.' 9
Howell's Annotated Stats. Michigan, p. 2205, Sec. 9071.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

"'When any person shall be arraigned upon an indictment,
it shall not be necessary, in any case, to ask him how he will
be tried; but if, on being so arraigned, he shall refuse to plead
or answer, or shall not confess the indictment to be true, the
court shall order a plea of not guilty to be entered, and thereupon the proceedings shall be the same as if he had pleaded
not guilty to the indictment.' 2 Howell's Annotated Stats.
Michigan, p. 2293, See. 9518."
The application for the writ was heard by Judge Brown,
holding the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Michigan, and denied, (his opinion being reported
42 Fed. Rep. 217,) whereupon the cause was brought to this
court by appeal.
.Mr. John C. Pattersonfor petitioner, appellant.
.M'.B. IF. uston, Attorney General of the State of Michigan, opposing, submitted on his brief.
M . CEIEF JusTiCE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Michigan held that the information
charged the respondent with the crime of embezzlement; that
the defendant was called upon to plead to this charge when
arraigned; that he pleaded guilty of embezzlement, and undoubtedly understood when he made his plea that he was
pleading guilty to the felony charged; that this conclusion
was fortified by the private examination required by statute
to be made by the judge before sentencing upon a plea of
guilty, which was shown to have been had in this case; that
the fact that the respondent collected the money as an attorney was immaterial; that if the act contained all the elements
of embezzlement, he was guilty of the crime and was properly
convicted; that an attorney when he collects money for his
client acts as the agent of his client as well as his attorney,
and if, after making the collection, he appropriates the money
to his own use with the intention of depriving the owner of
the same, he is guilty of the crime of embezzlement; that the

IN

RE CONVERSE.

Opinion of the Court.

conviction was warranted by the plea; and that the judgment
should therefore be affirmed. As remarked by Judge Brown,
it is no defence to an indictment under one statute that a defendant might also be punished under another. And as the
highest judicial tribunal of the State of Michigan ruled that
the word "agent" in section 9151 of the statutes of that State
applied to attorneys-at-law, and as the information charged
the defendant with embezzlement under that section, and he
pleaded guilty to embezzlement as an attorney-at-law, the
affirinance of the conviction necessarily followed. In the view
of the statute taken by the court, the plea admitted the truth
of the charge.
It is not our province to inquire whether -the conclusion
reached and announced by the Supreme Court was or was not
correct, for we are not passing upon its judgment as a court
of error, nor can we consider the contention that the decision
was not in harmony with the state constitution and laws.
The single question is whether appellant is held in custody
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States, in that the State thereby deprives him
of liberty without due process of law; for there is no pretence of
an abridgment of his privileges and immunities as a citizen of
the United States, nor of a denial of the equal protection of the
laws. But the State cannot be deemed guilty of a violation
of its obligations under the Constitution of the United States
because of a decision, even if erroneous, of its highest court,
while acting within its jurisdiction. And, conceding that an
unconstitutional conviction and punishment under a valid law
would be as violative of a person's constitutional rights as a
conviction and punishment under an unconstitutional law, we
fail to perceive that this conviction and judgment are repugnant to the constitutional provision. Appellant has been subjected, as all persons within the State of Michigan are, to the
law in its regular course of administration through courts of
justice, and it is impossible to hold that a judgment so arrived
at is such an unrestrained and arbitrary exercise of power as
to be utterly void.
We repeat, as has been so often said before, that the Four-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

teenth Amendment undoubtedly forbids any arbitrary depri-

vation of life, liberty or property, and in the administration of
criminal justice requires that no different or higher punishment
shall be imposed on one than is imposed on all for like offences,
but it was not designed to interfere with the power of the
State to protect the lives, liberty and property of its citizens;
nor with the exercise of that power in the adjudications of the
courts of a State in administering the process provided by the
law of the State. The Supreme Court of Michigan did not
exceed its jurisdiction or deliver a judgment abridging appellant's privileges or immunities or depriving him of the law of
the land of his domicil. Atrrowsmith v. Hdrmoning, 118 U. S.
194; Baldwin v. Kasaas, 129 U. S. 52; ITn Pe XEemmler, 136
U. S. 436.

Judgment afflrmed.
IRED RIVER CATTLE COMPA.NY v. NEEDTAM.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE,

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 1362.

Submitted December 15, 1890.-

Decided January 5, 1891,

When the demand in controversy is not for money, but the nature of the
action requires the value of the thing demanded to be stated in the
pleadings, affidavits will not be received here to vary the value as appearing in the face of the record.
The filing of affidavits as to value will not ordinarily be permitted where
evidence of value has been adduced below on both sides, and the proofs
have been transmitted, either with or without the announcement of a
definite conclusion deduced therefrom.
Where a writ of error is brought, or an appeal taken, without question as
to the value, and the latter is nowhere disclosed by the record, affidavits
may be received to establish the jurisdictional amount, and counter affidavits may be allowed if the existence of such value is denied in good
faith.
If there be a real controversy as to the value of the demand in controversy,
it should be settled below in the first instance, and on due notice; not
here upon exparte opinions.
The value of the property in dispute in this case was alleged in the petition,
but was not an issuable fact. The Circuit Court allowed the writ of
error on the prima facie showing made by the defendant. The plaintiffs

