OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

CROWLEY v. CHRISTENSEN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1317. Submitted October 28, 1890.-Decided November 10, 1890.
The sale of spirituous and intoxicating liquors by retail and in small quantities may be regulated, or may be absolutely prohibited, by State legislation, without violating the Constitution or laws of the United States.
The ordinances of the city and county of San Francisco, under which a
license to the defendant in error to sell intoxicating liquors by retail and
in small quantities was refused, having been held by the Supreme Court
of California not to be repugnant to the constitution of that State, that
decision is binding upon this court.
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, distinguished from this case.
In the courts of the United States the return to a writ of habeas corpus is
deemed to import verity until impeached.

THIS was an appeal from an order of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of California discharging, on habea" cowus, the petitioner for the writ, the
appellee here, from the custody of the chief of police of the
city and county of San Francisco, by whom he was held under
a warrant of arrest issued by the police court of that municipality, upon a charge of having engaged in and carried on in
that city the business of selling spirituous, malt and fermented
liquors and wines in less quantities than one quart, without the
license required by the ordinance of the city and county. The
ordinance referred to provided that every pers6n who sold
such liquors or wines in quantities less than one quart should
be designated as "a retail liquor dealer" and as "a grocer
and retail liquor dealer," and that no license as such liquor
dealer, after January 1, 1886, 1shall be issued by the collector
of licenses, unless the person desiring the same shall have obtained the written consent of a majority of the board of police
commissioners of the city and county of San Francisco to carry
on or conduct said business; but, in case of refusal of such
consent, upon application, said board of police commissioners

CROWLEY v. CHRISTENSEN.
Statement of the Case.

shall grant the same upon the written recommendation of not
less than twelve citizens of San Francisco owning real estate
in the block or square in which said business of retail liquor
dealer or grocery and retail liquor dealer is to be carried on;"
and that such license should be issued for a period of only
three months. The ordinance further declared that any person violating this provision should be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
The constitution of California provides, in the eleventh section of Article 11, that "any county, city, town or township
may make and enforce within its limits all such local, police,
sanitary and other regulations as are not in conflict with general laws."
The petitioner had, previously to June 10, 1889, carried on
the business of retail liquor dealer in San Francisco for some
years, under licenses from the board of police commissioners,
but his last license was to expire on the 17th of that month.
Previously to its expiration he was informed by the police
commissioners that they had withdrawn their consent to the
further issue of a license to him. He afterwards tendered to
the collector of license fees, through which officer it was the
practice of the board to issue the licenses, the sum required for
a new license, but the tender was not accepted, and his application for a new license was refused. He then applied to the
police commissioners for a hearing before them on the question
of revoking their consent to the issue of a further license to
him. Such hearing was accorded to him, and the time fixed
for it was the 24th of June. But, before any hearing was had,
he was arrested upon a warrant of the police court upon the
charge of carrying on the business of a retail liquor dealer
without a license. He then obtained from the Supreme Court
of the State a writ of habeas corpus to be discharged from the
arrest, but that court, on the 2d of August, 1890, held the
ordinance valid and remanded him to the custody of the chief
of police. He then applied for the allowance of an appeal
from this order to the Supreme Court of the United States,
but it was refused by the Chief Justice of the state court, and
the Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

States assigned to the circuit, who could have allowed the
appeal, was absent from the State. On the 7th of August following a new complaint was made against the petitioner,
charging him with unlawfully engaging in and carrying on in
San Francisco the business of a retail liquor dealer without a
license under the ordinance of the city and county. Upon this
complaint a warrant was issued under which he was arrested.
He thereupon applied to the Circuit Court of the United States
for a writ of habeas corpus, which was issued.
In return to the writ, the chief of police, the appellant here,
stated that he held the petitioner under the warrant mentioned
by the petitioner and several other warrants issued by the
police court of the city and county, upon different charges,
made at different times, of his conducting and carrying on the
business of a retail liquor dealer in San Francisco without a.
license, as required by the ordinance of the city and county.
He also stated, among other things, that a further license to
the petitioner was refused by the police commissioners, because
they had reason to believe that the business was carried on by
him under his existing license in such a manner as to be offensive, and violative of the criminal laws of the State and of the
rights of others. In support of this charge it was averred
that in that business the petitioner was assisted by one whom
he represented and claimed to be his wife, and that she had on
one occasion stolen one hundred and sixty dollars from a person who visited his saloon, and been convicted of the offence
in the Superior Court of the city and county, and sentenced
to be imprisoned for one year, and on another occasion had
stolen a watch and a scarf-pin from a person at the saloon,
and was held to answer for the charge. It was also averred
that there were more than sixteen citizens of San Francisco
owning real estate in the block on which the petitioner carried
on his business. It did not appear that on the hearing of the
application any proof was offered of the facts alleged either in
the petition or in the return. The case was heard upon exceptions or demurrer to the return. To that part respecting
the alleged larceny by the wife and her conviction, the demurrer was on the ground that the return also showed that an

CROW-LEY

V.

CHRISTENSEN.

Opinion of the Court.

appeal had been taken from the conviction, which was then
pending, and that she might be acquitted of the offence
charged.
Several objections were urged by the petitioner to the ordinance. Some of them were of a technical character, and
could not be considered. Of the others only one was noticed,
which was, that by it "the State of California, by its officers,
denies to him the equal protection of the laws, and makes and
enforces against him a law which abridges his privileges and
immunities as a citizen of the United States," contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States.
The court held that the ordinance made the business of the
petitioner depend upon the arbitrary will of others, and in
that respect denied to him the equal protection of the laws,
and accordingly ordered his discharge. 43 Fed. Rep. 243.
From that order the case was brought to this court by appeal
under §§ 763 and 764 of the Revised Statutes, this latter section as amended by the act of March 3, 1885, c. 353, 23 Stat.
437.
Mr. -Davis1ouderback and .rA. J. D. Page for appellant.
.Mr. Alfred Clarke and .Mr.Joseph .D. Redding for appellee.
RMn.

JusnoF FrrLD, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
It is undoubtedly true that it is the right of every citizen of
the United States to pursue any lawful trade or business, under
such restrictions as are imposed upon all persons of the same
age, sex and condition. But the possession and enjoyment of
all rights are subject to such reasonable conditions as may be
deemed by the governing authority of the country essential to
the safety, health, peace, good order and morals of the community. Even liberty itself, the greatest of all rights, is not
unrestricted license to act according to one's own will. It is
only freedon from restraint under conditions essential to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

equal enjoyment of the same right by others. It is then
liberty regulated by law. The right to acquire, enjoy and
dispose of property is declared in the constitutions of several
States to be one of the inalienable rights of man. But this
declaration is not held to preclude the legislature of any State
from passing laws respecting the acquisition, enjoyment and
disposition of property. What contracts respecting its acquisition and disposition shall be valid and what void or voidable;
when they shall be in writing and when they may be made
orally; and by what instruments it may be conveyed or mortgaged are subjects of constant legislation. And as to the enjoyment of property, the rule is general that it must be accompanied
with such limitations as will not impair the equal enjoyment
by others of their property. Sic tere tuo ut alienrum non
lcedas is a maxim of universal application.
For the pursuit of any lawful trade or business, the law
imposes similar conditions. Regulations respecting them are
almost infinite, varying with the nature of the business. Some
occupations by the noise made in their pursuit, some by the
odors they engender and some by the dangers accompanying
them, require regulations as to the locality in which they shall
be conducted. Some by the dangerous character of the articles
used, manufactured or sold require, also, special qualifications
in the parties permitted to use, manufacture or sell them. All
this is but common knowledge, and would hardly be mentioned
were it not for the position often taken, and vehemently
pressed, that there is something wrong in principle and objectionable in similar restrictions when applied to the business of
selling by retail, in small quantities, spirituous and intoxicating
liquors. It is urged that, as the liquors are used as a beverage,
and the injury following them, if taken in excess, is voluntarily inflicted and is confined to the party offending, their
sale should be without restrictions, the contention being that
what a man shall drink, equally with what he shall eat, is not
properly matter for legislation.
There is in this position an assumption of a fact which does
not exist, that when the liquors are taken in excess the injuries
are confined to the -party offending. The injury', it is true,

CROWLEY v.. CHRISTENSEN.
Opinion of the Court.

first falls upon him in his health, which the habit undermines;
in his morals, which it weakens; and in the self-abasement
which it creates. But, as it leads to neglect of business and
waste of property and general demoralization, it affects those
who are inmmediately connected with and dependent upon
him. By the general concurrence of opinion of every civilized
and Christian community, there are few sources of crime and
misery to society equal to the dram shop, whiere intoxicating liquors, in small quantities, to be drunk at the time, are
sold indiscriminately to all parties applying. The statistics of
every State show a greater amount of crime and misery attributable to the use of ardent spirits obtained at these retail liquor
saloons than to any other source. The sale of such liquors in
this way has therefore been, at all times, by the courts of
every State, considered as the proper subject of legislative
regulation. Not only may a license be exacted from the
keeper of the saloon before a glass of his liquors can be thus
disposed of, but restrictions may be imposed as to the class of
persons to whom they may be. sold, and the hours of the
day and the days of the week on which the saloons may be
opened. Their sale in that form may be absolutely prohibited.
It is a question of public expediency and public morality, and
not of federal law. The police power of the State is fully
competent to regulate the business -to mitigate its evils or to
suppress it entirely. There is no inherent right in a citizen to
thus sell intoxicating liquors by retail; it is not a privilege of a
citizen of the State or of a citizen of the United States. As it is
a business attended with danger to the community it may, as
already said, be entirely prohibited, or be permitted under such
conditions as will limit to the utmost its evils. The manner
and extent of regulation rest in the discretion of the governing
authority. That authority may vest in such officers as it may
deem proper the power of passing upon applications for permission to carry it on, and to issue licenses for that purpose.
It is a matter of legislative will only. As in many other cases,
the officers may not always exercise the power conferred upon
them with wisdom or justice to the parties affected. But that
is a matter which does not affect the authority of the State;

OCTOBER TERME, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

nor is it one which can be brought under the cognizance of
the courts of the United States.
The constitution of California vests in the municipality of
the city and county of San Francisco the right to make "all
such local, police, sanitary and other regulations as are not in
conflict with general laws." The Supreme Court of the State
has decided that the ordinance in question, under which the petitioner was arrested and is held in custody, was thus authorized and is valid. That decision is binding upon us unless
some inhibition of the Constitution or of a law of the United
States is violated by it. We do not perceive that there is any
such violation. The learned Circuit Judge saw in the provisions of the ordinance empowering the police commissioners
to grant or refuse their assent to the application of the petitioner for a license, or failing to obtain their assent upon
application, requiring it to be given upon the recommendation
of twelve citizens owning real estate in the block or square in
which his business as a retail dealer in liquors was to be carried
on, the delegation of arbitrary discretion to the police commissioners, and to real estate owners of the block, which
might be and was exercised to deprive the petitioner of the
equal protection of the laws. And he considers that his view
in this respect is supported by the decision in Yick Wo v.
llopkins, 118 U. S.356.
In that case it appeared that an ordinance of the city and
county of San Francisco passed in July, 1880, declared that it
should be unlawful after its passage "for any person or persons to establish, maintain or carry on a laundry within the
corporate limits of the city and county of San Francisco without having first obtained the consent of the board of supervisors, except the same be located in a building constructed
either of brick or stone." The ordinance did not limit the
power of the supervisors to grant such consent, where the
business was carried on in wooden buildings. It left that
matter to the arbitrary discretion of the board. Under the
ordinance the consent of the supervisors was refused to the
petitioner to carry on the laundry business in wooden buildings, where it had been conducted by him for over twenty

CROWLEY v. CtHRISTENSEN.
Opinion of the Court.

years. He had, at the time, a certificate from the board of
fire wardens that his premises had been inspected by them, and
upon such inspection they had found all proper arrangements
for carrying on the business and that all proper precautions
had been taken to comply with the provisions of the ordinance
defining the fire limits of the city and county; and also a
certificate from the health officer that the premises had been
inspected by him and were properly and sufficiently drained
and that all proper arrangements for carrying on the business
of a laundry without injury to the sanitary conditions of the
neighborhood had been complied with. The limits of the city
and county embraced a territory some ten miles wide by fifteen or more in length, much of it being occupied at the time,
as stated by the Circuit Judge, as farming and pasture lands,
and much of it being unoccupied sand-banks, in many places
without buildings within a quarter or half a mile of each
other. It appeared also that, in the practical administration
of the ordinance,, consent was given by the board of supervisors to some parties to carry on the laundry business in
buildings other than those of brick or stone, but that all applications coming from the Chinese of whom the petitioner was
one, to carry on the business in such buildings were refused.
This court said of the ordinance: "It allows without restriction the use for such purposes of buildings of brick or stone;
but, as to wooden buildings, constituting nearly all those in
previous use, it divides the owners or occupants into two
classes, not having respect to their personal character and
qualifications for the business, nor the situation and nature
and adaptation of the buildings themselves, but merely by an
arbitrary line, on one side of which are those who are permitted to pursue their industry by the mere will and consent
of the supervisors and on the other those from whom that
consent is withheld, at their mere will and pleasure. And both
classes are alike only in this, that they are tenants at will,
under the supervisors, of their means of living. The ordinance, therefore, also differs from the not unusual case, where
discretion is lodged by law in public officers or bodies to grant
or withhold licenses to keep taverns, or places for the sale of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

spirituous liquors and the like, when one of the conditions is
that the applicant shall be a fit person for the exercise of the
privilege, because in such cases the fact of fitness is submitted
to the judgment of the officer, and calls for the exercise of a
discretion of a judicial nature."
It will thus be seen that that case was essentially different
from the one now under consideration, the ordinance there
held invalid vesting uncontrolled discretion in the board of
supervisors with reference to a business harmless in itself
and useful *tothe community ; and the discretion appearing
to have been exercised for the express purpose of depriving
the petitioner of a privilege that was extended to others. In
the present case the business is not one that any person is permitted to carry on without a license, but one that may be
entirely prohibited or subjected to such restrictions as the governing authority of the city may prescribe.
It would seem that some stress is placed upon the allegation
of the petitioner that there were not twelve persons owners
of real property in the block where the business was to be
carried on. This allegation is denied in the return, which
alleges that there were more than sixteen such property
holders. As the case was heard upon exceptions or demurrer
to the return, its averments must be taken as true. At common law no evidence was necessary to support the return. It
was deemed to import verity until impeached. Hurd on
Habeas Corpus, book 2, c. 3, § 8, 9 and 10; Church on Same,
§ 122. And this rule is not changed by any statute of the
United States. It must, therefore, be considered as a fact in
the case that there were more than sixteen owners of real
estate in the block. But if the fact were otherwise, and there
was not the number stated in the petition, the result would
not be affected. If there were no property holders in the
block, the discr;tion'ary authority would be exercised finally
by the police commissioners, and their refusal to grant the
license is not a matter for review by this court, as it violates
no principle of federal law. We however find in the return
a statement which would fully justify the action of the commissioners. It is averred that in the conduct of the liquor

SEEBERGER v. CAHN.
Statement of the Case.

business the petitioner was assisted by his wife, and that she
was twice arrested for larcenies committed from persons visiting his saloon, and in one case convicted of the offence and
sentenced to be imprisoned, and in the other held to answer.
These larcenies alone were a sufficient indication of the character of the place in which the business was conducted, for the
exercise of the discretion of the police commissioners in refus-

ing a further license to the petitioner.
The order discharging the petitioner must be
Reversed, and the cause iemxnded with directions to take
further proceedingsin conformity withi this opinion, and
it is so ordered.

SEEBERGER v. CAHN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 47. Argued November 3, 1890. -Decided

November 17, 1890.

Cloths popularly known as "diagonals," and known in trade as " worsteds,"
and composed mainly of worsted, but with a small proportion of shoddy
and of cotton, are subject to duty as a manufacture of worsted, and not
as a manufacture of wool, under the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121.

Tis was an action of assumpsit against a collector of customs to recover back duties paid under protest. Plea, non
assumpsit. A jury was duly waived, and the case submitted
to the court, which made the following finding of facts:
"The plaintiffs imported an invoice of cloths popularly
known as 'diagonals,' which were classed by the collector as
woollens, and a duty of 35 cents per pound and 35 per cent ad
valorem assessed upon them under paragraph 362, new tariff
index. The plaintiffs claimed that the goods should have
been classed as 'manufactures of worsted not otherwise provided for' under paragraph 363, new tariff index, and the
duty assessed at 24 cents per pound and 35 per cent ad valorem. The duties were paid under protest, appeal taken, and

