WHEELER v. JACKSON.
Syllabus.

and wider ridge-stone than that of Billaud, and, by its great
weight, is more efficient in holding the structure together."
We concur with the Circuit Court in its views. Where the
roof-stones are wider, as in the Billaud roof, there need be
only a narrow ridge-stone, while where the roof-stones axe
narrower, as in the patented device, a wider ridge-stone or
cap-stone is necessary. In the latter case the cap-stone must
rest upon the gable-stones. In the former case it need not do
so. But, in each case, the vertical seam into which water
could enter, is covered, and the structure is held together and
locked at the roof, so as to be made enduring by the locking
and the weight of the roof. The question is one of degree
only, as to the size of the ridge-stone or cap-stone and the corresponding width of the roof-stones. The difference between
mechanical skill and the exercise of the inventive faculty has
been pointed out in many decisions of this court. _Bint v.
Evory, 133 U. S. 349, and cases there cited.
The foreign publication is competent as evidence in regard
to the state of the art, and as a foundation for the inquiry
whether it required invention to pass from the Billaud structure to the patented structure.
Decree afflrmed.

WHEELER v. JACKSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 65. Argued November 11, 1890.-

Decided November 24,1890.

The 15th section of the act of the legislature of New York, approved June
6, 1885, provides that no action or special proceeding shall thereafter be
maintained against the city of Brooklyn, or the Registrar of Arrears of
that city, to compel the execution or delivery of a lease upon any sale
for taxes, assessments or water rates, made more than eight years prior
to the above date, unless commenced within six months after that date,
and notice thereof filed in the office of the Registrar of Arrears; also,
that that officer shall, upon the expiration of such six months, cancel in
his office all sales made more than eight years before the passage of the
act, upon which no lease had been given, and no action commenced and

OOTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
notice thereof filed, within the period limited as aforesaid, and that
thereupon the lien of all such certificates of purchase should cease and
determine. Held,
(1) That this section is not repugnant to the clause of the Constitution
of the United States forbidding a state to pass any law impairing
the obligation of contracts, or to the clause declaring that no state
shall deprive any person of property without due process of law;
(2) That, consistently with those clauses, the legislature may prescribe a
limitation for the bringing of suits where none previously existed,
as well as shorten the time within which suits to enforce existing
causes of action may be commenced, provided, in each case, a
reasonable time, taking all the circumstances into consideration,
be given by the new law for the commencement of suit before the
bar takes effect.

THis action was brought in the Supreme Court of the State
of New York by the plaintiff in error, plaintiff below, against
the defendant in error, Registrar of Arrears of the city of
Brooklyn, to restrain him from cancelling in his office a number of sales of lots of land for non-payment of taxes, which
lots had been purchased by the plaintiff.
One part of the sales was alleged to have been made for
non-payment of taxes, assessmepts and water rates, pursuant
to the provisions of c. 384 of the laws of New York of 1854,
and the acts amendatory thereof. These statutes are stated
in full in the opinion, infra.
Another part was alleged to have been made for unpaid
taxes, assessments and water rates pursuant to the provisions
of c. 863 of the laws of New York of 1873, and the acts amendatory thereof. These also will be found in the opinion.
By c. 405, § 15 of the laws of New York of 1885, which will
also be found in the opinion, provision was made for the cancellation of such sales made more than eight years prior to
the passage of that act, upon which no leases should have been
given and no action commenced. The plaintiff alleged that
this statute, so far as it affected his rights under the several
purchases, was "wholly unconstitutional and void."
The defendant demurred to the complaint. The demurrer
was sustained and the complaint dismissed. This judgment
was affirmed by the Supreme Court in general term, and by
the Court of Appeals, 105 N. Y. 681. The plaintiff sued out
this writ of error.

WHEELER v. JACKSON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

.fk'. John, J. Townsend for plaintiff in error.
I. The plaintiff's rights under the tax sale constitute a
contract.

Under the statutes of New York, the city, being the owner
of an uncollected tax or assessment, invites the plaintiff to
advance the amount of the tax or assessment with interest and
expenses.
The money paid in by the tax sale purchaser does not pay
the tax; the tax remains as the foundation of his title. Clementi v. Jackson, 92 N. Y. 591.
The purchaser under these statutes in consideration of advancing the amount of the unpaid tax, interest and expenses
becomes possessed of two rights defined- in the statute: the
right to have a lease for a stated term of years, and an action
at law of ejectment or summary proceedings to obtain possession of the land; the further right to bide his time, not to
take out a lease and engage in a litigation to secure the land
itself, but, as the easier course, to wait and to rely on securing,
through the operation of the record of the sale in the office of
the Registrar, the very profitable return on his money provided
by the percentage of fifteen per cent, which along with the
amount of the purchase money the owner of the land is by
the statute compelled to pay on redeeming the property in
order to clear his title.
This latter is the right usually availed of by the tax sale
purchaser. It is of no prejudice to the city, because the city
has already received the advance of the amount of the tax,
and in the absence of a lease can be drawn into no possible
complication after the sale. It is useful to the owner of the
land, because it keeps open for him the valuable privilege of
redemption.
The two rights, that of taking out a lease and enforcing it,
and that of awaiting redemption by the owner of -the land, are
separate and distinct rights, belonging to and vested in the
tax sale purchaser.
These two rights are recognized by this court in Curtis v.
Whitney, 13 Wall. 68.

OCTOBER TERMV,

1890.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

These rights acquired by a purchaser at a tax sale amount
to, and are, a contract within the meaning of the clause of the
Constitution. Corbinv. Comres. of Washington County, 3 Fed.
Rep. 356; 1 Mc~rary, 521.
II. The operation of c. 405, § 15 of the laws of 1885, impairs the validity of the purchaser's contract, and is therefore
unconstitutional.
That portion of the section following the proviso divides.
itself into two clauses, the first beginning with the word "provided," and the second beginning with the words, "And after
the expiration of six months."
These two clauses relate respectively to the two rights specified in point I as being acquired by the tax sale purchaser
under the statutes regulating the sale. It is with the second
clause printed in italics, that this appeal is more particularly
concerned.
The clause is not a statute of limitation in any sense; it is
baldly a statute impairing the obligation of a contract, destroying the rights acquired by the plaintiff as purchaser at the tax
sale. It operates to destroy the security upon which the purchaser relied when advancing his money at the sale; the security which formed part of the contract represented by that
sale. That security is purely in rem and depends on the lien
of the record after sale. See § 34 of the statute; and Haight
v. The -Mayor, 99 N. Y. 280.
There is no escape from this conclusion. The purchaser
will have lost his purchase money and the delinquent owner
will have his land free from the plaintiff's claim. This was
not the result contemplated at the time of the sale. The law
in force at the time of the sale and defining the plaintiff's.
rights entered into and became a part of the contract. When
the law at that time said that the sale should be recorded and
should constitute a lien upon the land, this was the security
held out to intending purchasers to induce them to advance
their money. The legislature cannot by subsequent legislation impair or destroy this security.
Remedies for the enforcement of rights may be regulated,
but the legislature under the guise of regulating the remedy

WHEELErw v. JACKSON.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

may not impair the obligation of the contract. Nelson v. St.
Jar'tin'sParish,111 U. S. 716, 720; Gunn v. Barry, 15 Wall.
610, 622; Elwards v. Jearzey, 96 U. S. 595, 600; Von Hojf,man v. Quincy, 4 Wall. 535; -McCrackenv. .Hfayward,2 How.
608 ; Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1; Planters' Bank v. Sharp, 6
How. 301; Dikernan v. Dikerna, 11 Paige, 484:; Robinson v.
Rowe, 13 Wisconsin, 341; Bruce v. Schuyler, 4 Gilman (1ll.)
221; S. 0. 46 Am. Dec. 447; .Danzman v. Commissioners of
Schools, 4 Wisconsin, 414; Ri.obinson v. .Aagee, 9 California,
81; S. C. 70 Am. Dec. 638.
III. The court below at special term relied upon Butler v.
Palmer, 1 Hill, 324. That case distinctly recognizes that the
legislature may act upon the remedy, but may not tamper
with the contract. In this case the legislature did not touch
the remedy, but nullified the plaintiff's contract. The converse
of Butler v. Palmer has been decided in Cargill v. Power, 1
Michigan, 369; and TFillis v. Jelineck, 27 Minnesota, 18.
.FLserv. .ayor, &c., 67 N. Y. 73; and Jenkins v. Fahey, 73
N. Y. 355, 364, were also cited to show what no one disputes,
that a tax may be presumed to be satisfied, and that the
claims of a tax purchaser may be barred by lapse of time.
What is denied is the right of the State to abrogate the
contract-to cancel the sale or interfere with the record
which is necessary to the lien, and all of which entered into
and formed part of the contract.
IV. The second clause of section 15 destroys and cuts off the
tax sale purchaser's rights without a hearing or opportunity to
defend or to plead any excuse, and without compensation.
The proprietary right in the record of the sale of which the
enplaintiff became the purchaser at the tax sale -whether
forceable or not, whatever its iralue, whether the cloud it
creates is a detriment to the owner of the land or not, - cannot be destroyed by act of the legislature without provision
for compensation, and certainly not without provision for
notice to those whose rights may be affected. The plaintiff is
entitled to the record of the sale for what it is worth.

.3r.Almet F. Jenks for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE

HAniAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The question upon this writ of error is, whether certain provisions of a statute of New York passed in 1885, and relating
to sales of land in the city of Brooklyn for taxes, assessments
and water rates, are repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States. It arose upon a demurrer to the complaint
filed by Wheeler against Jackson, as Registrar of Arrears of
that city. The demurrer was sustained by the Supreme Court
of the State, and the complaint dismissed. That judgment
was affirmed in general term, and the latter judgment was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals of New York. 105 N. Y.
681.
Upon examining the legislation of New York prior to the
passage of the act of 1885, we find that the charter of Brooklyn, passed in 1854, provided that if any tax or assessment
remained unpaid on the day specified in the published notice
given by the collector of taxes, that officer should sell at public auction the property on which the tax or assessment was
imposed "for the lowest term of years for which any person
will take the same, and pay the amount of such tax or assessment with the interest and expenses;" the purchaser to
receive a certificate of sale, which should be noted on the original tax or assessment rolls, as well as on the abstracts kept
in the collector's office. The statute directed this certificate
to be recorded in the collector's office, and declared that it
should constitute "a lien upon the lands and premises therein
described after the same shall have been so recorded;" and that
no assignment of a certificate should have any effect until the
notice of the same, with the name and residence of the assignee, was filed in the office" of the collector of the district in
which the lands were situated. The owner, mortg'agee, occupant, or other person interested in the land, was given the
right to redeem "at any time within two years after the sale
for either tax or assessment," by paying to the collector for
the use of the purchaser, "the said purchase-money, together
with any other tax or assessment which the said purchaser may
have paid, chargeable on said land, and which he is hereby

WHEELER v. JACKSON.
Opinion of the Court.

authorized to do, provided a notice thereof has been filed in
the office of such collector, with fifteen per cent per annum in
addition thereto, and the certificate of such collector, stating
the payment and showing what land such payment is intended
to redeem, shall be evidence of such redemption." Upon
receipt of .the moneys it became the duty of the collector to
cause them to be'refunded to the purchaser, his legal representatives or assigns, and all proceedings in relation to the sale
were to cease. If the moneys were not paid according to the
exigency of the notice, the collector was required to execute a
conveyance of the property so sold. The statute contained this
further provision: "§ 33. The collector of the district where
the land sold for any tax or assessment shall not have been
redeemed, as by this act provided, shall execute to the purchaser or his assigns, pursuant to the terms of sale, a proper
conveyance of the lands so sold by him, which shall contain a
brief statement of the proceedings had for the sale of said
lands, and shall be evidence that such sale and other proceedings were regularly made and had according to the provisions
of this act. He shall also forthwith note the same on the
assessment rolls and abstract kept in his office. The grantee
shall be &ntitled as against all persons whomsoever to the
possession of said premises, and to the rents, issues and profits
thereof, pursuant to the terms of his conveyance, and shall be
entitled to obtain possession of his lands by summary proceedings, in the same manner as is provided by law for the removal
of persons who hold over or continue in possession of real
estate sold by virtue of an execution against them." Laws of
N. Y. 1854, pp. 874,. 878 to 881, c. 381, §§ 24, 26, 29, 30, 33,
Title V. Of the Collection of Taxes and Assessments.
An amended charter of Brooklyn, passed June 28, 1873,
repealed all former acts inconsistent with its provisions, and
created for that city the Department of Arrears, with a chief
officer named the Registrar of Arrears, upon whom were imposed all the duties theretofore required to be performed by
any city officer or department in relation to advertising, selling and leasing property for assessments, taxes and water
rates, and for the redemption of property sold therefor. Laws

OCTOBER TERT,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

of New York, 1873, p. 1318, c. 863, Title VIII, § 1. Sections
24, 26, 29, 30 and 33 of ihe act of 1854 were substantially
re-enacted in sections 1, 3, 5, 6, 8 and 10 of that of 1873.
The differences between the two acts do not affect the'present
controversy.
An act of June 6, 1885, amended that of 1873. The constitutionality of the 15th section of the former act is questioned
in this case. That section is as follows :
"§ 15. None of the provisions of this act hereinbefore contained shall affect any sale for taxes, assessments or water
rates heretofore made in said city, or the rights of the parties
or the proceedings thereunder, but the same shall remain the
same as though this act had not been passed; provided, however, that no action or special proceeding shall hereafter be
brought or maintained against the city of Brooklyn, or the
Registrar of Arrears of said city, to compel the execution or
delivery of a lease upon any sale for taxes, assessments or
water rates, made more than eight years prior to the passage
of this act, unless such action or special proceeding is commenced within six months after the passage of this act, and
notice thereof filed in the office of Registrar of Arrears, but
this provision shall not operate to extend any statute of limitations now applicable in such cases. And afte the expiration of six months from the passage of this act, it shall be the
duty of the Registrar of Arrears, to cancel in his office all
such sales made more than eight years prior to the passage of
this act, upon which no lease shall have been given, and no
action commenced, and notice thereof filed as aforesaid, within
the period hereinbefore limited therefor, and thereupon the
lien of all such certificates of sale shall cease and determine."
Laws of New York, 1885, c. 405, § 15, p. 702.
The complaint shows that at divers times between September 22, 1856, and May 25, 1873, inclusive, at public auction
held by the proper officer of Brooklyn, pursuant to the above
act of 1854, and the acts amendatory thereof, the plaintiff
Wheeler purchased, each for a term of years, 1253 different
lots that were sold for the non-payment of taxes, assessments
and water rates, and paid for each the amount set opposite its

WHIEELER v. JACKSON.
Opinion of the Court.

number, as specified in a schedule filed with the complaint receiving from the collector a certificate of sale of each lot.
Each certificate declared that he was entitled, after the expiration of two years from its date, to a lease of the lot mentioned for a named term of years, unless the premises were
sooner redeemed. The total amount of those purchases was
$28,516.69.
The complaint also shows that at divers times, from September 29, 1874, to February 23, 1875, inclusive, at public auction
held by the Registrar of Arrears of Brooklyn for like purposes, pursuant to the act of 1873, and the acts amendatory
thereof, the plaintiff purchased, each for a term of years, 61
different lots sold for the non-payment of taxes, assessments
and water rates, paying for each the sum specified in a schedule filed with the complaint, and receiving from the Registrar
similar certificates of sale. Each certificate was recorded in
the defendant's office. The total amount of the purchases
named in that schedule was $3611.17.
None of the lots purchased by Wheeler were redeemed from
sale; he is still the legal owner and holder of the certificates;
nevertheless, the defendant was about to cancel the sales, pursuant to the 15th section of the act of 1885, whereby, the
compliint alleges, "all public notice of the rights and lien of
the plaintiff will be wholly destroyed," and he will sustain
irreparable injury and damage. Alleging that such section is
unconstitutional and void, the plaintiff prays that the defendant, his successors, agents, clerks and servants, be perpetually enjoined from cancelling the sales or the record thereof.
Such is the case made by the complaint.
Is the above section of the act of 1885 repugnant to the
clause of the Constitution protecting the obligation of contracts against impairment by state legislation ? On behalf of
the plaintiff it is insisted that, under the statutes of 1854 and
1873, the purchaser, in consideration of his advancing the
amount of the unpaid taxes and interest, together with the
expenses oil sale, became entitled to something more than a
conveyance or lease for a stated number of years, with the
right to maintain ejectment or summary proceedings to ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tain possession of the land purchased. He acquired, it is contended, the further right "to bide his time, not to take out a
lease and engage in litigation to secure the land itself, but, as
the easier course, to wait and rely on securing, through the
operation of the record of sale in the office of the Registrar,
the very profitable return on his money, provided by the percentage of fifteen per cent, which, along with the amount of
the purchase money, the owner of the land is, by the statutes,
compelled to pay, on redeeming the property, in order to clear
his title." The latter right, we are informed by the plaintiff,
is the one usually exercised by purchasers at tax sales in
Brooklyn. Any interference with it, he contends, impairs the
obligation of his contract with the city.
We cannot assent to this view. The plaintiff was entitled,
by the contract, to a return of the amount paid by him, together with any other tax or assessment chargeable on the
land and paid by him, with fifteen per cent per annum in
addition thereto; and, if such amounts were not paid to the
collector for him within two years after the sale, he could
demand a conveyance according to the terms of his purchase,
and obtain possession by summary proceedings. As none of
the lots purchased were redeemed, the plaintiff became entitled,
when the time for redemption passed, to a lease of each lot for
the term of years specified in the respective certificates of sale.
Now, the right to such leases was not taken away by the act
of 1885. Nothing in that act prevented the plaintiff from
obtaining them on the day after its passage. But, as we have
seen, it did provide that no action or special proceeding should
be brought or maintained to compel the execution of conveyances or leases in respect to any sale for taxes, assessments
or water rates made more than eight years prior to June 6,
1885, unless instituted within six months after that date, and
notice thereof filed in the office of the Registrar of Arrears.
Whatever was the period prescribed by the laws of New
York prior to June 6, 1885, for such actions or special proceedings - and it is not disputed that there was a limitation
under the local law for suits of that character- the time was
reduced by the act of that date. Can this enactment be

WHEELER v. JACKSON .
Opinion of the Court.

assailed simply upon the ground that it prescribes a shorter
time for the bringing of actions to compel the execution of
such conveyances than was given when the contracts therefor

were made? Clearly not. It is the settled doctrine of this
court that the legislature may prescribe a limitation for the
bringing of suits where none previously existed, as well as
shorten the time within which spits to enforce existing causes
of action may be commenced, provided, in each case, a reasonable time, taking all the circumstances into consideration, be
given by the new law for the commencement of suit before
the bar takes effect. Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 628, 632;
-Kos/konongv. Burton, 104 U. S. 668, 675; Xitchell v. Clar1k,
110 U. S. 633, 643. The latest case upon the subject in this
court is .Me Gahey v. irginia (In Pe Brown), 135 U. S. 662,
701, 705, 706, 707, in which the above principle is affirmed,
the court saying: "No one rule as to the length of time which
will be deemed reasonable can be laid down for the government of all cases alike. Different circumstances will often
require a different rule. What would be reasonable in one
class of cases would be entirely unreasonable in another." We
cannot say that the limitation prescribed by the act of 1885
is unreasonable when applied to those who neglected for eight
years prior to its passage to demand the conveyances or leases
to which they were entitled. On the contrary, considerations
of public policy required that the records of the sale of real
property in Brooklyn for taxes, assessments and water rates,
should no longer remain in the condition to which they had
been brought in 1885 by reason of purchasers having forborne,
for an unreasonably long period, to obtain leases, that they
might realize interest upon their investments in tax titles, at
the rate of fifteen per cent per annum. By not taking a lease,
when entitled to it, the purchaser put the taxpayer in a position where the latter would be compelled, if he desired to sell
or mortgage the property to another, to pay not only the
amount advanced by the former, but interest at the above rate
for the whole time subsequent to the sale. The legislature did
not intend, by the acts of 1854 and 1873, to establish any such
relations between the taxpayer and the purchaser, or to put

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the former at the mercy of the latter for an indefinite period;
for both acts contemplated the execution by the collector of a

lease immediately upon the expiration of the time for redemption-giving the purchaser, in that way, precisely what he
bought. But whatever may have been the reasons that induced the enactment of the statute of 1885, the period within
which actions must be brough~t was a matter resting primarily
with the legislative department of the state government; and
as statutes of limitation have for their object, and are deemed
necessary to, the repose and security of society, the determination of that department should not be interfered with by
the courts, unless the time allowed to bring suits upon existing
causes of action is, in view of all the circumstances, so short as
not to give parties affected by it a reasonable opportunity to
protect their rights under the new law.
It is further contended that, even if the statute is sufficient
to bar an action to compel the execution of a conveyance to
the purchaser, unless brought within the time prescribed, it is
unconstitutional in that it requires the Registrar- after the
expiration of six months from its passage without any such
action being commenced and notice thereof given within that
period -to cancel in his office all sales made more than eight
years prior to June 6, 1885, and provides that "thereupon the
lien of all such certificates of sale shall cease and determine."
That provision, it is said, destroys the security upon which
the purchaser relied when he advanced his money, namely, the
lien of the record after sale. This position is untenable. The
substantial rights acquired by the purchaser was a return of
his money, with interest, or, after a certain time, a lease of the
premises for the term named in the certificate of sale. The
lien created by the certificate of sale protected him during
the period within which the owner of the property was permitted to redeem; and if the latter redeemed, he could only
do so, of strict right, within a given time; and then only by
reimbursing the purchaser all he had paid, with the addition
of fifteen per cent per annum. If there was no redemption,
the purchaser was entitled to a lease that would give him all
for which he bargained. The lien, consequently, would cease

WHEELER v. JACKSON.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the execution and delivery to the purchaser of a lease.
If the lien was of such character that the purchaser, not having received a conveyance, could enforce it by suit or special
proceedinag commenced for that specific purpose, the power of
the legislature to prescribe a period within which such a suit
or proceeding must be commenced, or the lien be lost, is as
clear as its power to fix the time within which the purchaser
must sue to compel the execution of a conveyance or lease.
If, on the other hand, the lien was given only to protect the
purchaser, in respect to his outlay, with interest, until he was
entitled to demand a conveyance, or until a conveyance was
actually made, the power of the legislature to require the
record of sale to be cancelled and the lien to cease, when'the
purchaser, by not suing within the prescribed time, had lost
his right to a conveyance or lease, cannot be questioned. The
limitation prescribed by the statute applies equally to a suit to
compel a conveyance, and to a -proceeding (if a separate suit
for that purpose could be maintained) to enforce the alleged
lien. It declares, in effect, that the right to the lien and the
right to a conveyance shall, in the cases specified, depend upon
a suit being brought within a certain time to compel the execution of a conveyance in accordance with the terms of sale.
In other words, that the record of a sale, including the certificate of sale, shall not remain a cloud upon the title, after the
purchaser has failed, for six months after the passage of the
act, to obtain, or to demand by suit -the time for redemption
having passed -what, in view of the statute, must be regarded
as the principal object of his purchase, namely, a conveyance
or lease, with the right, by means of summary proceedings, to
obtain possession of the premises sold to him for a term of
years. We are of opinion that such legislation did not impair
the obligation of the plaintiff's contract.
What has been said is sufficient to dispose of the additional
suggestion to the effect that the cancellation of the record of
sales at which the plaintiff purchased deprived him of his
property without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. He asserts a proprietary right in such
record for what it was worth. But, if the observations made
VOL. CMoxmvr-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

by us in respect to the first point be sound, he had no such
right, after permitting the period to elapse within which he
could bring suit to compel the execution of a conveyance or
lease. A statute of limitation cannot be said to impair the
obligation of a contract, or to deprive one of property without
due process of law, unless, in its application to an existing
right of action, it unreasonably limits the opportunity to
enforce that right by suit.

Judgment affrimed.
MACFARLAND V. JACKSON. Error to the Supreme Court of the
State of New York. No. 66. Argued November 11, 1890. Decided
November 24, 1890. MR. JUSTICE -HARLAN delivered the opinion
of the court. This case presents the same questions that are disposed of in the above opinion. For the reasons therein stated the
judgment is

.Ar. John ,T Townsend for plaintiff in error.

Affirmed.

.ir. Almet F. Jenkcs for defendant in error.

DOBSON v. LEES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 48. Argued October 31,1890.-Decided December 1, 1890.

A reissue of letters patent is an amendment, and cannot be allowed to
enlarge the claims of the original by including matter once intentionally
omitted.
Such intentional omission may be shown by conduct, and the inventor cannot be permitted to treat deliberate and long continued acts of his attorney as other than his own.
In this case there is no room for the contention that there was any inadvertence, accident or mistake attending the issue of the original patent, and
the reissue was correctly held to be invalid.
IN EQUITY for the infringement of letters patent. Decree
dismissing the bill. Plaintiffs- appealed. The case is stated
in the opinion.

