N. Y. BELTING CO. v. N. J. RUBBER CO.
Opinion of the Court.

NEW YORK BELTING AND PACKING COMPANY
v. NEW JERSEY OAR SPRING AND RUBBER
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 39. Argued October 23, 24, 1890. -Decided

December 22, 1890.

The first claim in letters patent No. 11,208, granted May 27, 1879, to the
New York Belting and Packing Company for a new and useful design
for rubber mats, viz.: "11. A design for a rubber mat, consisting of corrugations, depressions or ridges in parallel lines, combined or arranged
relatively, substantially as described, to produce variegated, kaleidoscopic, moire, stereoscopic or similar effects, substantially as set forth,"
covers things which were then well known and were not new; and is
therefore too broad to be sustained.
Claims two and three in those letters patent, viz.: "2. A design for a rubber
mat, consisting of a series of parallel corrugations, depressions, or
ridges, the lines of the said corrugations being deflected at one or more
points, substantially as set forth: 3. A design for a rubber mat, consisting of a series of parallel corrugations, depressions, or ridges arranged
in sections, the general line of direction of the corrugations in one section making angles with or being deflected to meet those of the corrugations in the contiguous or other sections, substantially as described:"
may fairly be regarded as confining the patentee to the specific design
exhibited in his patent and shown in the drawing.

IN

EQUITY

for the infringement of letters patent No. 11,208,

granted May 27, 1879, to the New York Belting and Packing
Company for a new and useful design for rubber mats.
Defendant demurred to the bill and the demurrer was sustained, and the bill dismissed. Plaintiff appealed. The case
is stated in the opinion.
r'. B. F. Zee, (with whom was Mr. William E. L. Ie on
the brief,) for appellant.
-Mr. Arthur v. Briesem for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought upon a patent for a design
by the New York Belting and Packing Company, assignee of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

George Woffenden, against the New Jersey Car Spring and
iRubber Company. The bill was dismissed upon demurrer,
and the case is here on appeal from that decree. The ground
for dismissing the bill, as stated by the circuit judge in his
opinion, was that the subject matter of the patent was not
patentable, 30 Fed. Rep. 785, and this is the question which
has been discussed on the appeal. The invention claimed in
the patent is a new and original design for rubber mats of
which the subjoined plate is a diagram.

Referring to the diagram, the specification describes the
invention as follows:
"In accordance with this design the mat gives under the
light different effects, according to the relative position of
the person looking at it. If the person changes his position
continuously the effects are kaleidoscopic in character. In

N. Y. BELTING CO. v. N. J. RUBBER CO.
Opinion of the Court.

some cases moire effects, like those of moire or watered silk,
but generally mosaic effects, are produced. Stereoscopic effects
also, or the appearance of a solid body or geometric figure, may
at times be given to the mat, and under proper conditions an
appearance of a depression may be presented.
"The design consists in parallel lines of corrugations, depressions or ridges, arranged to produce the effects as above
indicated.
"The drawing represents a mat embodying this design.
"A is a mat, which is, as represented, square, although it
might be oblong or other desired shape. It is divided into a
number of sections, a b c d, the corrugations or depressions
and ridges in those represented by the same letter being
parallel. Thus in the centre and outer border formed by the
sections a b the corrugations extend around the mat parallel
with its outer edge and with each other. At the points where
each depression crosses the diagonals, drawn from corner to
corner of the mat through the centre, it makes a right angle
with its previous path. In the intermediate borders the corrugations in the sections c are arranged at an angle with those
in the sections d, and in both they form an angle with the corrugations in the sections a b. By the different shading of the
sections attempt has been made to represent the mosaic effects
produced, which, it will be understood, vary like a kaleidoscope as the observer shifts his position.
"The above forms simply one of the many ways in which
my invention may be carried into effect. The corrugations in
the centre and outer border need not extend entirely around
the mat; but in each of the sections a depression in one section may be opposite a ridge in the next; and it is not necessary that the corrugations be parallel with the edges of the
mat. They may run in any direction. The ridges and depressions in the intermediate borders might be made to form
different angles with each other or with those in the other
sections, or the borders might be increased or diminished in
number. It will, of course, be understood that the effect produced and the manner in which the appearance varies are
modified more or less by these changes. Instead of making

OCTOBER TERill, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the corrugations in the centre of mat to bend four times, they
may be made to change their line of direction any desired
number of times in a regular or irregular way -that is to say,
instead of having four series of parallel depressions and ridges,
a number of series, less or more, arranged at various angles
with each other, may be employed. I may divide the mat by
a number of imaginary lines representing a projection of any
geometrical figure, and in each of the sections so formed make
parallel corrugations or alternate ridges and elevations, the
different sets of corrugations making with each other the
proper angle to give the effects sought for.
"To give the moire effects I usually make the ridges and
depressions undulating, while maintaining the parallel position
with relation to each other. I desire, therefore, to have it
understood that I do not intend to limit the design to parallel
corrugations which are straight throughout any considerable
portion of their length, (as represented on the drawing, for
example,) but that it includes the undulating ridges and depressions, or other disposition or formation in which the corrugations alter their direction irregularly, or in which they
may be straight for a certain distance and then formed in
undulations, and that it includes the corrugations arranged in
concentric circles, in spirals, in zigzags, or according to any
desired figure."
Having thus described his invention, the patentee claims:
"1. A design for a rubber mat, consisting of corrugations,
depressions or ridges in parallel lines, combined or arranged
relatively, substantially as described, to produce variegated,
kaleidoscopic, moire, stereoscopic or similar effects, substantially as set forth.
"2. A design for a rubber mat, consisting of a series of parallel corrugations, depressions or ridges, the lines of the said
corrugations being deflected at one or more points, substantially as set forth.
"3. A design for a rubber mat, consisting of a series of
parallel corrugations, depressions or ridges arranged in sections, the general line of direction of the corrugations in one
section making angles with or being deflected to meet those of

N. Y. BELTING CO. v. N. J. RUBBER CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the corrugations in the cQntiguous or other sections, substan-

tially as described."
The circuit judge in his opinion said:
"The patent is an attempt to secure to the patentee a
monopoly of all ornamentation upon rubber mats by which
variations of light and shade are produced by a series of ridges
and depressions, without regard to any particular arrangement
or characteristics of the lines except that they are to be parallel.
Although there is an illustration in the drawing, and although
each claim is for a design 'substantially as described,' the
language of the specification is carefully expressed so as not to
restrict the claims to the design shown in the drawing, but so
that the first claim shall include every variety which can be
produced by the arrangement of corrugations, depressions or
ridges in parallel lines; the second, all obtainable when by the
arrangement the corrugations are deflected; and the third, all
obtainable when by the arrangement of corrugations in sections, those of one section make an angle with those in the
contiguous or other sections.
"It was not new to produce contrasts and variations in light
and shade or stereoscopic effects, by depressions or elevations
in the surface of materials. It was old to do this by arranging them in parallel lines, as in wood, plaster, and corduroy
cloth. It is not novelty which will sustain a design patent to
transfer to rubber, or to a rubber mat, an effect or impression
to the eye which has been produced upon other materials or
articles by contrast or variation of light and shade. The
design of this patent is not new unless it embodies a new
impression or effect produced by an arrangement or config..
ration of lines which introduces new elements of color or form.
This is not claimed.
"None of the claims can be limited to design which pro
duces any definite or concrete impression to the eye."
We think that the judge was right in holding that the .first
claim of the patent is altogether too broad to be sustained,
and for the reasons stated in the opinion. But as the other
claims may fairly be regarded as confining the patentee to tha
specific design, exhibited in his patent and shown in the drawVOL. cxxxvi-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ing, we think that the demurrer *hould have been overruled,
and that the defendants should have been put to answer the
bill. Whether or not the design is new is a question of fact,
which, whatever our impressions may be, we do not think it
proper to determine by taking judicial notice of the various
designs which may have come under our observation. It is a
question which may and should be raised by answer and settled by proper proofs.
There is one feature of this patent which presents an interesting if not a novel aspect. We are in the habit of regarding a design as a thing of distinct and fixed individuality of
appearance-a representation, a picture, a delineation, a device. A design of such a character, of course, addresses itself
to the senses and the taste, and produces pleasure or admiration in its contemplation. But, in the patent before us, the
alleged invention is claimed to be something more than such
a design. It is claimed to have an active power of producing
a physical effect upon the rays of light, so as to produce different shades and colors according to the direction in which
the various corrugated lines are viewed - a sort of kaleidoscope effect. It is possible that such a peculiar effect, produced by such a particular design, impressed upon the
substance of india-rubber, may constitute a quality of excellence which will give to the design a specific character and
value and distinguish it from other similar designs that have
not such an effect. As this is a question which it is not necessary now to decide, we express no opinion upon it.
We reverse the decree of the Circuit Court and remand the
cause, with directions to overrule the deraurrer and take
such further proceedings in accordancewith this opinibn
as law andjustice may rejuire.

