OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

The other questions discussed at the bar have been fully considered, but it is not considered necessary to comment on
them.
Judgment afirmed.

THE KACOOCHEE.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 87, 83. Argued November 24, 1890. -Decided December 8, 1890.

In a collision, in a dense fog which hung low down over the water, in the
Atlantic Ocean off Cape May, between a steamer and a fishing schooner,
the steamer was going at half-speed, between six and seven knots an
hour, and the schooner about four knots an hour. When so running,
the steamer would forge ahead 600 to 800 feet after reversing her engines, before beginning to go backwards. The steamer first sighted the
schooner when the latter was about 500 feet distant. The schooner first
sighted the steamer when 400 to 500 feet distant. The steamer reversed
her engines full speed astern, in about 12 seconds, but did not attain
backward motion before the collision. The bow of the steamer struck
the port quarter of the schooner about 10 feet from the taffrail, and sank
her. The steamer on a north half east course, had overhauled and sighted
the schooner, on a north-northeast course, with the wind south southeast, about an hour before, and had passed to the eastward of her, and
heard her fog-horn. Thinking she heard cries of distress to the starboard, the steamer ported and changed her course 131 points, to southsoutheast. The schooner had on deck one man at the wheel, and one
man forward as a lookout and blowing the fog-horn, and 14 men below.
The schooner kept her course. Her fog-horn was heard by the steamer,
before the steamer sighted her: Held,
(1) Under Rule 21, of ยง 4233 of the Revised Statutes, the steamer was
in fault for not going at a moderate speed in the fog;
(2) She was, under the circumstances, bound to observe unusual caution, and to maintain only such a rate of speed as would enable
her to come to a standstill, by reversing her engines at full speed,
before she should collide with a vessel which she should see
through the fog;
(3) The schooner was not sailing too fast, and she blew her fog-horn
properly, and she was not in fault for keeping her course, her
failure to port being not a fault but, at most, an error of judgment in (xt'emis, due to the fault of the steamer;
(4) As the Circuit Court did not find that the absence of another lookout on the schooner contributed to the collision, and, so far as the

THE NACOOCHEE.
Statement of the Case.
findings were concerned, the man forward on her properly discharged his double duties, there was no lack of vigilance on the
part of the schooner in the matter of a lookout;
(5) The testimony not being before this court, it cannot consider exceptions to the refusals of the Circuit Court to find certain facts;
(6) As the District and Circuit Courts found both vessels in fault, and
gave to the schooner only one-half of her damages, this court
reversed the decree of the Circuit Court, and ordered a decree for
the schooner for the full amount of her damages, with interest,
and her costs in both of the courts below, and in this court.

THIS was a libel in admiralty, filed in the District Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York, by
Edward S. Moseley and others, as owners of the fishing
schooner Lizzie Thompson, against the steamer Kacoochee, to
recover damages for the loss of the schooner and her outfit
and the property on board of her, in consequence of her being
sunk by a collision with the steamer, in March, 1883, in the
Atlantic Ocean, off Cape May in the State of New Jersey.
The libel alleged negligence on the part of the steamer and
absence of fault on the part of the schooner. The collision
took place in the daytime in a fog. The answer of the steamer
alleged that she was not in fault, and that the collision was
due to negligence on the part of those on board of the
schooner, in not having the fog-horn properly sounded and in
not putting the helm of the schooner hard a-port when the
steamer was seen to be within forty or fifty feet from her.
After issue joined, the libel was amended by joining as libellants the master and crew of the schooner, for the loss of their
personal effects. The case was heard by Judge Brown, and
he made an interlocutory decree that the libellants recover
one-half of their damages, his opinion being reported in 22
Fed. Rep. 855. On the report of a commissioner, a decree
was entered in the District Court, May 19, 1885, in favor of
the libellants for $5379.14, being one-half of their damages,
namely, $5110.57, and their costs $256.65, and $11.92 interest.
Both parties appealed to the Circuit Court, where the case
was heard before Judge Wallace. His opinion is reported in
24 latchford, 99, and 28 Fed. Rep. 462. He filed the following findings of fact and conclusions of law, which are con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

tained in the report in 24 Blatchford, but not in the report in
28 Fed. Rep.:
"Findings of facts : 1. The steamship Kacoochee, belonging to the claimants, is a propeller of about 3000 tons burden
and about 310 feet long. Her propeller is a right-handed
propeller, and her engines are compound and reversed by
steam, and can be so reversed in 12 seconds. At full speed
her propeller makes 62 revolutions a minute, and the speed
attained is between 13 and 14 knots an hour. When running
at half speed she would forge ahead 600 to 800 feet, after
reversing her engines, before beginning to go backwards.
"2. On the 16th of April, 1883, she was bound on her regular voyage from Savannah, Georgia, to the city of New York.
She was in all respects in good order, well and sufficiently
equipped and manned with competent officers and men, and
was blowing her fog-whistle at least once a minute. The wind
was moderate and the sea calm, but a dense fog hung low
down over the water. At about half-past one or two o'clock
in the afternoon of that day, as she was on her usual course,
north half east, off Cape May, about 10 miles to the southeast
of the Five Fathom light-ship proper, and going at half speed,
between six and seven knots an hour, and making 30 revolutions of the propeller to the minute, she overhauled and
sighted the schooner Lizzie Thompson, and passed to the eastward of her, at a distance of about two or three hundred
yards. The Lizzie Thompson, owned by the libellants, was a
fishing schooner, returning from the fishing grounds, with a
fall fare of fish, and bound for New York, having on board
sixteen men at the time the Kacoochee passed her. She was
going about four knots an hour, with all sails set, upon a course
of north-northeast, with the wind south-southeast, blowing at
the rate of 8 to 10 miles an hour. But two men were on the
schooner's deck, A. J. Small, one of them, acting as a lookout
and blowing the fog-horn, and Samuel Kimball, aged twenty,
at the wheel. The other fourteen men were all below deck.
"3. At this time, when the Kacoochee was passing the
Lizzie Thompson, the fog-horn of the schooner was heard
upon the steamer and the steamer's whistle was heard by those

THE NACOOCHEE.
Statement of the Case.

on the schooner. Most of the schooner's crew came on deck
and saw the steamer till she disappeared ahead in the fog, and
then went below. The steamer continued her course north
half east until those on board heard what they supposed to be
cries of distress on their starboard beam. This was about
half-past two o'clock. These cries were heard by the captain
and others on board the steamer. After some conference with
respect to these cries, and several persons agreeing as to their
apparent character, the steamer's helm was put hard to pQrt,
and she swung around until she headed a south-southeast
course, when her helm was steadied. Very soon afterwards
the schooner Lizzie Thompson was suddenly sighted, looming
up in the fog on the steamer's starboard bow, about 500 feet
away.
"4. The captain of the steamer immediately ordered the
engines reversed full speed astern, which orders were immediately obeyed and put into execution within about 12 seconds,
but a collision occurred between her and the Lizzie Thompson,
the schooner's port quarter aft of the main chains and about
ten feet from the taffrail colliding with the bow of the Nacoochee, which penetrated two or three feet into the schooner,
causing the schooner to sink in a very few moments. All her
crew -were saved and taken on board the steamer, which then
resumed her former course N. I E., and pursued her way to
New York, arriving there the next morning.
"5. The Lizzie Thompson had continued on her course of
north-northeast, after the steamer passed her for the first
time, without change up to the moment of collision. The fog
continued and was dense, and the same men were on deck,
Samuel Kimball at the wheel and A. J. Small on the watch
and blowing the horn, and all the others were below deck,
including her captain, sitting around. All the sails were set,
and she was sailing at the rate of about four miles an hour.
"6. Just before the collision Lookout Small, on the schooner's deck, saw the steamer appearing through the fog and
bearing down on them on their port side, about 400 to 500
feet off. He then shouted, ' A steamer is coming into us,' and
the men below then came upon deck. Florence McKown, her

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

captain, who sat in the cabin, when he heard the watch sing
out, 'A steamer is coming into us,' told the man at the wheel
to keep his course, and jumped on deck, and saw the steamer
approaching on the port quarter. No change was made in
the schooner's helm, and she continued her north-northeast
course up to the very moment of collision.
"7. After the steamer had turned to go to the supposed
cries of distress the captain took his position in front of the
pilot-house. A seaman, Andrew Johnson, was on the lookout,
standing right up forward as far as he could get; the second
officer was on watch in the pilot-house; and the quartermaster
was at the wheel. All of them heard the fog-horn of the
schooner and immediately after saw the schooner appearing
through the fog off on the starboard bow, about 500 feet
away. The captain gave his orders to back full speed astern,
and took his position at the stem of the steamer and called
out to those on board the schooner, ' Port the helm.'
"8. That, when a screw vessel like the Nacoochee is going
through the water at the rate of six miles an hour, and the
engines are reversed ' full speed astern,' porting the helm or
starboarding the helm has no effect at all on the vessel while
she is still going ahead. The Nacoochee had not attained
backward motion when she struck the schooner.
"9. That, immediately before the collision, the two vessels
did not sight each other through the fog at the same moment,
but that the Nacoochee first sighted the Lizzie Thompson when
the latter was about 500 feet distant and the Lizzie Thompson
first sighted the Nacoochee when 400 to 500 feet distant.
" Conclusions of law : 1. That the steamship Nacoochee
was in fault, contributing to this collision, for not going at
moderate speed in a fog.
"2. That the schooner was in fault, and in this respect,
namely, that she was sailing too short-handed in the fog, and
was guilty of negligent navigation in having but one man forward charged with the double duties of a lookout and blowing
the horn, and one man astern, who was a youth of 20 only,
at the wheel, all the other fourteen men, including the captain, being below deck.

THE NACOOCHEE.
Argument for the Nacoochee.

"3. The decree of the District Court is affirmed, without
costs of this court to either party."
The claimant of the steamer filed six exceptions to the
refusal of the court to find certain facts as prayed by the
claimant, such exceptions being based on the ground that
the facts so requested to be found were proved by the evidence
and not contradicted by any material evidence in the case,
and that, therefore, the refusal of the court to find the same
was an error of law, as a finding against the evidence. The
claimant also excepted to the first conclusion of law and to
certain findings of fact as being unsupported by any evidence;
also to the refusal of the court to make four several conclusions of law, as prayed for - (1) that the steamer was not in
fault as contributing to the collision; (2) that the schooner
was in fault, because she was sailing at the rate of five miles
an hour before the wind, with every sail set, in a dense fog;
(3) that the schooner was guilty of negligent navigation, because, immediately before the collision, she did not port her
helm in order to avoid immediate danger, when by so doing
she could have escaped the collision, and that Rule 24 required
her to depart from Rule 23 on the occasion, and that she was
not justified in keeping her course up to the moment of collision; (4) that the libel should be dismissed, with costs of the
District and Circuit Courts. There was a bill of exceptions,
setting forth the foregoing exceptions, but none of the testimony is embodied in the transcript of the record.
A final decree was made by the Circuit Court, that the libellants recover one-half of the damages sustained by them,
amounting to $5110.57, with interest from May 19, 1885,
being $421.60, and their costs in the District Court, taxed at
$256.65, amounting in all to $5788.82. As both parties had
appealed, no costs of the Circuit Court were given to either
of them. From the decree of the Circuit Court both parties
have appealed to this court.
Mrb'. Nathan Bjwur for the steamship Nacoochee.
I. There is one element in this case which must be borne in
mind, and which colors all the facts and distinguishes it from

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for the Nacoochee.

all other cases of collision involving the question of speed, and
that is that the Nacoochee turned about to save life, and was
on a life-saving errand when the collision occurred. It was evident that she had not only the right to change her course, but
it was her duty to do so when supposed cries of distress were
heard. The B oston, 1 Sumner, 328, 335 ; Thie George iicolaus, Newberry Adm. 449, 451; The -Edwin fawley, 41 Fed.
Rep. 606.
The Xacoochee being on an errand to save life, and
turned in the direction of the cries, was compelled to proceed
expeditiously, and so had to maintain speed enough for that
purpose. The 23d rule expressly provides that all rules must
be construed in reference to any special circumstances which
may render a departure from the other rules necessary; and
in considering, therefore, whether the steamer was guilty of
violating the rule which prescribes that vessels shall go at
moderate speed in a fog, regard must be had to the fact that
she was engaged in a service which reqiuired her to move as
promptly as possible. As was said in The Leland, 19 Fed.
Rep. 771: "What is a moderate and what is a dangerous rate
of speed are, of course, to some extent comparative terms,
depending upon the surrounding circumstances."
It is of course admitted that the fact that she was engaged
in trying to save life would not authorize the steamer to forge
ahead at full speed and discharge her from any obligation to
observe due precautions to avoid vessels which might be in the
neighborhood. But nothing of the kind appears in this case.
On the contrary, it is expressly found by the court that she
was going only at half speed, that she could be stopped within
800 feet, and that the strictest lookout was kept.
The court below cites, to support its view that there was
no moderate speed in this case, the rule laid down in The
Batavier,40 Eng. Law and Eq. 9, 25, which has been quoted
.with approval by this court in the case of The Colorado, 91
U. S., on page 703. That rule says: "At whatever rate she
(the steamer) was going, if going at such a rate as made it
dangerous to any craft which she ought to have seen and
might have seen, she had no right to go at that rate."

THE NACOOCHEE.
Opinion of the Court.

We claim that that rule could only be invoked against us
if it were shown that it was possible for us to have known
that at our rate of speed other vessels could not be seen within
the distance necessary to stop the ship. If the mere fact that
a collision occurred because the steamer could not be stopped
is evidence that the steamer was running at a speed which
under the circumstances was not moderate, then the consequence would be that in every case of collision the steamer
must be held to have contributed to the accident and to be
liable for at least half the damages.
II. The schooner was at fault, in not keeping a sufficient
lookout, and having a boy of only slight experience at the
helm. Where there is a crew of sixteen persons, and fourteen,
including the captain, are below, and although there is a fog,
only one man is charged with the duty both of sweeping the
horizon on all points of the compass and blowing the fog-horn,
it certainly is strange to claim that when a collision occurs the
steamer, which kept the best possible lookout, is at fault, and
the schooner is not.
.Mfr. TMilhelmus .ynderse for the libellants.
Mir. JusTion BLATCHFORD, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

It is contended for the steamer that she was not guilty of
any neglect in going at the rate of speed found. Her full
rate of speed was between thirteen and fourteen knots an
hour. When she first overhauled the schooner her speed was
between six and seven knots an hour, and she kept up the
latter speed until she reversed her engines on suddenly sighting the schooner in the fog, about five hundred feet away. At
the time this collision took place the rules of navigation found
in section 4233 of the Revised Statutes were in force. By Rule
15, whenever there was a fog or thick weather, whether by day
or night, a sail-vessel under way was required to sound a foghorn at intervals of not more than five minutes. By Rule 20,
"If two vessels, one of which is a sail-vessel and the other a
VOL. cxxxv-22

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

steam-vessel, are proceeding in such directions as to involve
risk of collision, the steam-vessel shall keep out of the way of
the sail-vessel." By Rule 21, "Every steam-vessel, when approaching another vessel, so as to involve risk of collision,
shall slacken her speed, or, if necessary, stop and reverse; and
every steam-vessel shall, when in a fog, go at a moderate
speed." By Rule 23, "Where by Rules seventeen, nineteen,
twenty, and twenty-two, one of two vessels shall keep out of
the way, the other shall keep her course, subject to the qualifications of Rule twenty-four." By Rule 24, "In construing
and obeying these rules, due regard must be had to all dangers
of navigation, and to any special circumstances which may
exist in any particular case rendering a departure from them
necessary in order to avoid immediate danger."
It is urged on the part of the steamer, that, in determining
the question whether her speed was a moderate one in the fog,
it is to be considered that she supposed she was on a life-saving errand, and was hastening towards what she thought were
cries of distress, which required her to move as promptly as
possible. It is found as a fact that, when running at half
speed, as she was, she would forge ahead 600 to 800 feet, after
reversing her engines, before beginning to go backwards; and
that she had not attained backward motion when she struck
the schooner. This, it is contended, was a moderate speed. It
is urged, that if the master of the steamer thought that the
fog was of such a character that he could see a vessel at a distance of about 800 feet, and it turned out that the fog was
more dense than he thought it to be, he committed merely an
excusable error of judgment, and was not guilty of negligence.
But we cannot regard these views as controlling. The steamer
was bound to keep out of the way of the schooner, and the
burden rests upon her to show a sufficient reason for not doing
so. She must be held wholly responsible, unless she shows a
fault on the part of the schooner which contributed to the
collision, or that it was due to unavoidable accident. The latter is not shown, and it is shown that the steamer was not
going at a moderate speed in the fog. It is found that the
steamer first sighted the schooner when the latter was about

THE NACOOCHEE.
Opinion of the Court.

500 feet distant, and that the fog was dense and hung low
down over the water. The steamer, from her own course and
that of the schooner, when the former overhauled and passed
the latter, must have known, by the lapse of time before she
beard the supposed sounds of distress, that, when she changed
her course, by porting, 13 points, to south-southeast, it was
quite likely she would encounter the schooner. She was bound,
therefore, to observe unusual caution, and to maintain only
such a rate of speed as would enable her to come to a standstill, by reversing her engines at full speed, before she should
collide with a vessel which she should see through the fog.
This is the rule laid down by this court in the case of The
Colorado, 91 U. S. 692, 702, citing The Euroya, 2 Eng. Law
& Eq. 557, 564, and 14 Jurist, pt. 1, 627, and The Batavier,
40 Eng. Law & Eq. 19, 25, and 9 Moore P. C. 286. The rule
laid down in the last named case is that, at whatever rate a
steamer was going, if she was going at such a rate as made it
dangerous to any craft which she ought to have seen, and
might have seen, she had no right to go at that rate. See also
Tie Pennsylvania, 19 Wall. 125, 134.
The rule is still maintained, and is expressed as follows, in
article 16 of section 1 of the act of August 19, 1890, c. 802,
entitled "An act to adopt regulations for preventing collisions
at sea:" "Art. 16. Every vessel shall, in a fog, mist, falling
snow, or heavy rain-storms, go at a moderate speed, having
careful regard to the existing circumstances and conditions."
In the present case, the steamer discovered the schooner on
her starboard bow, about 500 feet away, looming up in the
fog. The speed of the schooner was about four knots an hour
and that of the steamer between six and seven knots, the combined rate being over ten knots an hour, or over 1000 feet a
minute; so that, at a distance apart of 500 feet, the vessels, at
the combined speed, were not over half a minute apart. The
steamer's engines could be reversed in twelve seconds; but,
although they were reversed at full speed astern, she had not
attained backward motion when she struck the schooner. This
was not the moderate speed required by the statute. During
the twelve seconds necessary to reverse the engines the steamer

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

would progress ahead 200 feet, leaving the distance between
the vessels at the time the steamer commenced to back only
300 feet.
Both of the courts below found the schooner to be in fault.
The fault found by the Circuit Court was that the schooner
was sailing too short-handed in the fog, and was guilty of
negligent navigation in having but one man forward, charged
with the double duties of a lookout and blowing the fog-horn,
and one person astern, a youth of only twenty, at the wheel,
while all the other fourteen men, including the master, were
below deck. In addition, it is contended here for the steamer,
that the schooner was sailing too fast in the fog, and that she
kept her course, instead of porting, when she sighted the
steamer.
It is alleged, in the answer of the steamer, that the schooner
was in fault in not putting her helm hard a-port when the
steamer was seen to be within forty or fifty feet from her; but
it is not averred in the answer that the schooner was sailing
too fast in the fog. It is, however, alleged in the answer that
the schooner was in fault in not having her fog-horn properly
sounded-; but this latter defence cannot be maintained, because
it is found by the Circuit Court that the officers of the steamer
all of them heard the fog-horn of the schooner before they
saw her.
It is contended that the schooner could have avoided the
collision by porting her helm when she saw the steamer. But
it was the primary duty of the' schooner, under Rule 23, to
keep her course; and, when her master was notified of the
approach of the steamer, he told the man at the wheel of the
schooner to keep his course, and no change was made in her
helm up to the very moment of collision. Even if it was an
error of judgment in the schooner to hold her course, it was
not a fault, being an act resolved upon in extremis, a compliance with the statute, and a manceuvre produced by the fault
of the steamer. ffew York & Livepool Steamship Co. v.
Rumball, 21 How. 372, 383, The 2ichols, 7 Wall. 656, 666;
The Carroll,8 Wall. 302, 305 ; Tlie Elizabeth Jones, 112 U. S.
514, 526; The Bywell Castle, 4 Prob. Div. 219.

THE NACOOCHEE.
Opinion of the Court.

In regard to the alleged fault of the schooner in sailing too
short-handed in the fog, and having only two men on deck,
one of them forward, charged with the double duties of a lookout and blowing the horn, and one astern at the wheel, it is
not found by the Circuit Court as a fact that the absence of
another lookout contributed to the collision, nor are any facts
found which can justify that conclusion, either as fact or law.
So far as the findings are concerned, the man forward properly
discharged his double duties. He blew the fog-horn and it
was heard on board the steamer, and it is not found that he
did not blow it properly or in accordance with the statute.
Nor is it found that he could have performed the duties of a
lookout better than he did, or that any different manner of
performing those duties, either by him or an additional lookout, could or would have made any difference in the result, or
that the steamer would or could have been seen by the schooner
any sooner than she was seen. The finding is that the steamer
first sighted the schooner when the latter was about 500 feet
distant, and the schooner first sighted the steamer when 400
to 500 feet distant. The schooner being low in the water and
the fog hanging low down over the water, it was, of course,
denser on the deck of the schooner than it was on the higher
deck of the steamer, and those on the steamer naturally would
see the masts and sails of the schooner up in the lighter fog
before the vision of the lookout on the schooner would penetrate the denser fog which enveloped him. Under all these
circumstances, and in view of the actual findings, it cannot be
held that. there was any lack of vigilance on the part of the
schooner in the matter of a lookout. The Farragut,10 Wall.
834; Tlie Fannie,11 Wall. 238, 243; Tte Annie Lindsley, 10:
U. S. 185, 191.
Nor is there anything in the suggestion that the schooner
was sailing too fast. It is not so averred in the answer or
found by the Circuit Court.
The exceptions to the refusals of the Circuit Court to find
certain facts cannot be considered, because the testimony is not
before us. The Franci8 M-'ight, 105 U. S. 381. The excep-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

tions to the refusal to find certain conclusions of law are considered sufficiently in what has been said already.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case is
remanded, with a direction to enter a decree for the libellants for the full amount of their damages, with interest
from the date of the report of the commissioner in the District Court, andfor their costs in the District Court and
in the Circuit Court, and in this court, on both appeals.

SOLOMONS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM TEE COURT OF CLAMS.
No. 64. Argued.November 10,11, 1890.-Decided December 8, 1890.

When a person in the employ of the United States makes an invention of
value and takes out letters patent for it, the government, if it makes use
of the invention without the consent of the patentee, becomes thereby
liable to pay the patentee therefor.
If a person in the employ and pay of another, or of the United States, is
directed to devise or perfect an instrument or means for accomplishing
a prescribed result, and he obeys, and succeeds, and takes out letters
patent for his. invention or discovery, he cannot, after successfully
accomplishing the work for which he was employed, plead title thereto
as against his employer.
When a person in the employ of another in a certain line of work devises
an improved method or instrument for doing that work, and uses the
property of his employer and the services of other employ6s to develop
and put in practicable form his invention, and explicitly assents to the
use by his employer of such invention, a jury, or a court trying the facts,
is warranted in finding that he has so far recognized the obligations of
service flowing from his employment and the benefits resulting from his
use of the property, and the assistance of the coemploycs, of his employer, as to have given to such employer an irrevocable license to use
such invention.
AM lurg v. Kingsland, 1 How. 202, affirmed and applied.
DURING the years 1867 and 1868 Spencer M. Clark was in
the employ of the government as Chief of the Bureau of
Engraving and Printing. That bureau was not one created
by any special act of Congress, but was established, by order

