u-NION STOCK YARDS BANK v. GILLESPIE.

411

Syllabus.

was in use at the State prison at Waupun, Wisconsin, and
elsewhere, for fastening a series or row of cell doors by means
of a lever and horizontal bar, but not operated outside of a
corridor or partition separating the prisoners from the jailer.
At the close of the testimony on both sides, the defendant
moved the court to direct a verdict for the defendant on the
grounds (1) that the defendant was merely a territorial division
of the State, existing only as a political subdivision thereof,
and could not be sued for the infringement of a patent; (2)
that the right of action in the suit had never been assigned to
the plaintiff. The court sustained the motion on both grounds,
(30 Fed. Rep. 241,) and directed the jury to return a verdict
for the defendant, which was done. The plaintiff excepted to
the ruling and to the direction.
On the grounds set forth in the opinion in No. 61 Fond du
Lac County v. -ray, ante, 395, the.patent was invalid, and the
judgment must be affirmed. This defence was set up in the
answer, and the motion to direct a verdict for the defendant
was broad enough to cover the question of the invalidity of
the patent, although that ground was not then distinctly
urged. Want of patentability is a defence, though not set up
in an answer or plea. Brown v. Pier,91 U. S. 37, 44;
-Dunbar v. 3flyers, 94 U. S. 187; ,Sawson v. Grand Street
Railroad Co., 107 U. S. 649, 652; Hendy v. .Miners' Iron
WorN, 127 U. S. 370, 375.
Judgment afjrmed.

UNON STOCK YARDS BANK v. GILLESPIE.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 79. Argued November 17,18,1890.-Decided December 15, 1890.

A bank, receiving on deposit from a factor, under the circumstances set
forth in this case, moneys which it must have known were the proceeds
of property of the factor's principal, consigned to him by the principal

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Citations for Appellants.
for sale on the principal's account, of which moneys the principal was
the beneficial owner, cannot, as against the latter, appropriate the deposits
to the payment of a general balance due to the bank from the factor; and
if it attempts to do so, the remedy of the principal against the bank is
in equity and not at law.
Chapman v. Forsyth, 2 How. 202, and Hennequin v. Clews, 111 U. S. 676,
distinguished from this case.

IN

EQuTy.

pealed.

Decree for the complainants.

Defendant ap-

The case is stated in the opinion.

.2Wr. Edward 0. Brown, for appellant, cited: (1) on the
question of jurisdiction, Clarke v. Shee, Cowper, 197, 199;
.Mason v. TFaite, 17 Mass. 560, 563; iM'errillv. Norfolk Bank,
19 Pick. 32; Bayne v. United States, 93 U. S. 642; TVright v.
Ellison, 1 Wall. 16 ; Oelrichs v. Spain, 15 Wall. 211 ; Root v.
-LakeShore &c. Railway, 105 U. S. 189 ; Parkersburgv. Brown,
106 U. S. 487; Litch4/eld v. Ballou, 114 U. S. 190; and (2)
on the merits, Lambert v. Peyton, 8 H. L. Oas. 1; labask &
Erie Canal Trustees v. Beers, 2 Black, 448; Crocket v. Lee,
7 Wheat. 522; Carneal v. Banks, 10 Wheat. 181; Harrison
v. _ixon, 9 Pet. 483; Javen v. IWakefield, 39 Illinois, 509;
Bolton v. Puller, 1 Bos. & Pull. 539; Ward v. Brandt, 11
Martin (La.) 331; S. C. 13 Am. Dec. 352; Exparte Buckhause
&c., 10 :Nat. Bk. Reg. 206; Chapman v. Forsyth, 2 How. 202;
Hennequin v. Clews, 111 U. S. 676; -x parte Dale, 11 Oh. D.
772; KYnate/bull v. Hallett, 13 Ch. D. 696; Fordv. Hopkins, 1
Salk. 283; Miller v. Race, 1 Burrow, 452; _lfurray v. -Lardner,
2 Wall. 110; Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1; Brooklyn City &c.
Railroad v. Bank of the Republic, 102 U. S. 14; Atlantic
Cotton .2ills v. Indian OrchardIfills, 147 Mass. 268; Currie
v. _fisa, L. R. 10 Ex. 153; Commercial Bank v. Hughes, 17
Wend. 94; Clayton's Case, I M,eriv. 554; 3fisa v. Currie, 1
App. Cas. 569; Branda v. Barnett, 12.01. & Fin. 787; Bank
of the iletroapolisv. -Yew England Bank, 11 How. 234; 8. C.
6 How. 212; -YcDowell v. Bank of Wilmington, 1 Harrington
(Del.) 369; X3arsh v. Oneida Cent. Bank, 34 Barb. 298; Cehitral Bank v. Connecticut -Mutual Jffe Ins. Co., 104 U. S. 54;
larine Bank v. Fulton Bank, 2 Wall. 252; Thompson v.

UNION STOCK YAR.DS BANK v. GILLESPIE.

413

Opinion of the Court.

Riggs, 5 Wall. 663; Bank of the Republic v. .Millard, 10
Wall. 152.
'. L. IT Bisbee and Ar. John I. Beebe, (with whom were
.Mr. John P. Ahrens and .Xr.Benry Decker on the brief,) for
appellees, cited: (1) on the question of jurisdiction, N'ational
Bank v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 54; Sims v. Brittain,4 B.
& Ad. 375; Williams v. Everett, 14 East, 582; Yates v. Bell,
3 B. & AId. 643; Pannell v. -Hurley, 2 Collyer, 241; Pennell
v. Defell, 4 De G. M. & G. 372; Bodenham, v. lloskyns, 2
De G. M. & G. 903; _Frith v. Cartland,.2 Hem. & Mil. 417;
Whitley v. Foy, 6 Jones Eq. 34; 8 . 78 Am. Dec. 236; Veil
v. .itchell, 4 Wash. C. C. 105; N.
. 19m. Co. v. 1?oulet, 24
Wend. 505; Varet v. N.
. Ins. Co., 7 Paige, 560; ipatrick
i
v. .MlcDonald, 11 Penn. St. 387; Warner v. .Martin, 11 How.
209: and (2) to the merits, Zogan v. Shorb, 24 Wend. 458;
-Moore v. Olementson, 2 Camp. 22; Baring v. Corrie, 2 B. &
Ald. 137; Fish v.
nempton, 7 0. B. 687; Baltimore v. Wilt
liams, 6 Maryland, 235; Sheflield v. London Joint Stock Bank,
13 App. Cas. 333; Allen v. St. Louis Bank, 120 U. S. 20;
Parker v. Plietteplace, 1 Wall. 684; -Lytle v. Arkansas, 22
How. 193; -Harrietv. Beal, 17 Wall. 590; Alviso v. United
States, 8 Wall. 337; Dickenson v. Tillinghast, 4 Paige, 215;
-Nlichols v. Martin, 35 Hun, 168; .Duguid v. Edwards, 50
Barb. 288; Chesterfield .fanfg. Co. v. Dekon, 5 Pick. 7; S. C.
16 Am. Dec. 367; .Merrill v. Bank of Torfolk, 19 Pick. 32;
Baker v. Exchange Bank, 100 N. Y. 31; Ex parte Eingston,
L. R. 6 Ch. 632; Xnatchbull v. Hallett, 13 Ch. D. 696; Overseers of the Poor v. Bank of Virginia, 2 Gratt. 544; . C.
44 Am. Dec. 399; Tformley v. Wormley, 8 Wheat. 421.
MR. usTic Bnnwnn delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 25th day of May, 1887, a decree was rendered in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Illinois, in favor of appellees and against appellant, for
$26,585.90. That decree is challenged by this appeal. Two
questions are presented; one of right, the other of jurisdic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tion.. Ought the bank to be compelled to pay to the Gillespies
such sum of money; and had a court of equity jurisdiction to
entertain and render a decree in this suit? In respect to the
first question, it may be premised that the Gillespies were the
owners of certain cattle, which were consigned to the firm of
Rappal, Sons & Co. for sale; that the proceeds of the sales.
made by the Rappals were deposited in the bank, - and it is
for this money that the suit was brought. This general statement compels the equitable conclusion that, as the Gillespies
owned the cattle, they ought to have the moneys received
from their sale. The right of an owner of property is not
limited to the property itself, but extends to everything which
is its direct product or proceeds. But this outline does not
present the questions involved in this case, and a more detailed
statement of the facts is requisite. A. J. Gillespie and his two
sons, Thomas E. Gillespie and Louis J. Gillespie, were citizens
of Kansas City, Missouri, doing business there as A. J. Gillespie & Co. Frederick J. Rappal and his two sons, Lawrence
L. Rappal and Frederick J. Rappal, Jr., were citizens of Illinois, engaged in the live stock commission business as partners
under the firm-name of Rappal, Sons & Co., at the Union
Stock Yards in Chicago. The Union Stock Yards National
Bank was a bank organized under the laws of the United
States, and also located at the Union Stock Yards in Chicago.
The consignments were made in October, 1885. In the spring
of that year, Frederick J.Rappal, Sr., went to Kansas City to
work up business for his firm. On arriving there he formed a
nominal partnership, at least, with William 1. Bowen and
Milton James, for the purpose of buying cattle and sending
them to Chicago for sale. The partnership name was W. P.
Bowen & Co. On behalf of this firm, the elder IRappal made
a contract with the Gillespies, by which the latter were to
advance the money for the purchase of cattle; to take charge
of the forwarding of them, receiving in consideration therefor
five dollars a car-load, afterwards changed to $2.50 a car-load;
and in pursuance of this contract, IRappal selected and purchased the cattle in controversy, receiving from the vendors
orders of which the following is a specimen:

UNION STOCK YARDS BANK v. GILLTESPIE.

415

Opinion of the Court.

"KAxsAS CiTy, MIo., Oct. 3, '85.
" Union Stock Yard & Transit Co., Chicago, Ill.:
"Please deliver to A. J. Gillespie & Co. four cars cattle,
consigned from Shelby & Fulkeeson to us via C., B. & Q. R. R.
."M OUNrjoy, W T.E & Co.
"Deliver above cattle to Rappal Sons.
"A. T. GILLEsPIE & Co."
Endorsed on the back the following: "iRappal, Sons & Co."
The allegation of the bill is, that the Gillespies, complainants, were owners of these cattle; and the contention is, that
the proof does not establish this allegation, but shows that
the Gillespies were not owners, but simply loaners of money
on the security of the cattle. In respect to this, the learned
Circuit Judge ruled as follows: "I hold that the cattle belonged to the Gillespies, or that the Gillespies were entitled,
to control them so far as necessary to protect themselves for
advancements made on the purchases." This is a very accurate statement of the relations of the parties; and in equity
the Gillespies may properly be considered the owners. They
paid for the cattle; the orders for possession, equivalent to
bills of sale, were in their name; they controlled the shipments; and until their money advanced and stipulated profits
were received, they were equitably the owners and in control.
The senior iRappal, or Bowen & Co., were agents to purchase,
with a stipulation for compensation for services, in the amount
received exceeding a named sum.
Rappal, Sons & .Co. were in the commission businessknown to the bank to be in that business. They were not
buyers and sellers, but factors - agents to sell. Presumably,
therefore, moneys deposited by them were the proceeds of
cattle consigned to them for sale. Their business being known
to the bank, such presumption goes with their deposits; and
while not of itself notice, is a circumstance to compel inquiry
on the part of the bank in respect to any particular deposit.
We do not mean to be understood as implying that a bank
receiving deposits from one whom it knows to be in the corn

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

mission business receives every deposit in trust for any unknown principal. A bank is not sponsor for all its depositors,
although it may know the character of their business. Its
relations to its depositors are those of debtor; and, generally,
receiving and paying out money on the checks of its depositors,
it discharges the full measure of its obligations. It is not
ordinarily bound to inquire whence the depositor received the
moneys deposited, or what obligation such depositor is under
to other parties. It is only when there gather around any
deposit, or line of deposits, circumstances of a peculiar nature,
which individualize that deposit or line of deposits, and inform
the bank of peculiar facts of equitable cognizance, that it is
debarred from treating the deposit as that of moneys belonging absolutely to the depositor. We notice, therefore, the
peculiar circumstances which cast knowledge upon this bank,
in respect to these deposits. And this knowledge was not
limited to the character of the business of the depositor, that
of commission merchants, but extended to its results. The
bank account of the Rappals with the appellant, from the 1st
of January, 1885, up to and including the end of these transactions, is presented. It was a bank account of continuous
and increasing overdrafts. Striking the balance, for the several months, of the daily credits and overdrafts, the average
result against the Rappals, month by month, was as follows:
January, $1476.25; February, $3275.64; March, $2483.77;
April, $3122.20; May, $6526.03; June, $9850.46; July, $10-,
897.96; August, $12,494.05; September, $15,227.91; and in
the two days of October prior to that deposit which closed
the overdraft, the account was thus: October 1, $18,922.21,
overdraft; October 2, $18,454.89, overdraft. From the 1st of
August until October 2, only on three occasions - August 27
and 28 and September 3 -were there balances to the credit
of the Rappals, and those of small amounts.
It is obvious from this account that the business of the
IRappals was failing. The story of their failure was written
by the officers of the bank on its books, and it knew all that
such story told. It knew that it had, as hereafter disclosed,
given credit to the Rappals with the Kansas City dealers. It

UNION STOCK YARDS BANK v. GILLESPIE.

417T

Opinion of the Court.

saw them failing in business. It knew their business was that
of factor, receiving and selling for others on commission.
Why this particular occasion should be seized upon, the testimony does not disclose ; but is it noi obvious that the bank
intended to arrest this continuing overdraft; and, familiar
with the character of the business of the Rappals, contemplated, with or without their knowledge, the seizure and
appropiiation of the proceeds of some consignment ?
Further, as heretofore suggested, it appears that the assistant cashier of the Kansas City Stock Yards Bank wrote to
the cashier of the Union Stock Yards National Bank a letter
of inquiry as to the financial standing, individual responsibility and nature of the business of Rappal, Sons & Co., to
which this answei was returned:
"UNION STOOK YARDs NATIONAL BANK,July 20, 1885.
"P. Connelly, Esq., Assistant Cashier, Eansas City, M~o.
"DAR SiR: Your favor of the 17th instant received.
Rappal, Sons & Co. are a firm. in good standing, financially
and otherwise. I don't think they keep much ready money
in the business, but F. J. Rappal owns large farms near Joliet,
and is estimated worth 850,000 to $60,000. He is a man of
high character and has always had good credit, even before
he had any means.
"Yours truly,
G. E. ComuD, Cashier."
This letter was shown to the Gillespies, and they were
informed at the same time that the Kansas City bank had
arrangements for notification by telegraph in case any draft
was not paid. The effect of this letter was to encourage confidence in the IRappals, whatever may have been the motive
of the defendant bank; and, in this respect, it is fair to say
that there is no evidence to justify the inference that it was
known to be inaccurate or intentionally misleading; but here,
as often elsewhere, results rather than motives are significant
as to determining liability. Again, it will be noticed that the
Gillespies were advised that non-payment of any draft would
be promptly communicated by telegraph. That was in fact
VOL. cxxxvrr-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the uniform custom of the defendant bank. It so happened
that the various shipments of cattle, and the corresponding
drafts were on different days. The first shipment reached
Chicago, and the cattle were sold on October 2, - Friday.
The draft for the amount thereof, $6506.40, arrived the same
day and was presented to the Rappals, and not paid. No
explanation was given to the bank by the Rappals for the
non-payment. No notice was communicated by telegraph of
the non-payment, and no information was received at Kansas
City thereof until Monday, October 5. On Saturday, October
3, and Monday, October 5, the balance of the shipment, being
the bulk of the cattle, were received and sold, the major portion being so received and sold on Saturday. As the draft
received Friday was not accepted or paid, if notice thereof
had been given promptly by telegraph, as was the custom,
and as the Gillespies were advised was the custom, they might
have protected the balance of the cattle, and prevented the
Rappals from receiving and selling them. It is fair to say
that the testimony shows, and so it was found by the Circuit
Judge, that this failure to telegraph was due to the negligence
of a clerk, and was not the intentional act of the bank; but
we cannot conceive that the question of motive is significant.
The result of the omission of the officers of the bank to telegraph Friday, whether intentional or accidental, was the same;
and.the bank is equally responsible whether the result flowed
from negligent or intentional omission. Again, it must be
noticed that when, on Friday morning, the bank received the
draft, it was information to it that a shipment to the Rappals
accompanied the draft; and when the Rappals declined to pay
that draft, that fact suggested either that the Rappals had not
received the shipment or else that, having received it, they proposed to appropriate the proceeds and repudiate the obligations
of factor to principal. When the sale tickets were deposited that
evening, it was notice that they had received the shipment,
and that for some reason they were contesting their liability
to the consignor. As the office of the Rappals was but four
or five hundred feet from the bank, it knew that it could
ascertain the exact facts; but it failed to make inquiry ; and

UNION STOCK YARDS BANK v. GILLESPIE.

419

Opinion of the Court.

under those circumstances, failing to inquire and failing to
notify the consignor and drawer, it is fairly held responsible
for its ignorance of facts which it might easily have acquired
knowledge of, and its omission to do that which both its custom and duty compelled it to do.
Summing up these various facts, it may be observed that
the bank knew that the business of the Rappals was a failing
one; that, instead of making money, they were gradually
going deeper and deeper into debt. It knew that the 1Rappals
were not buyers, but simply consignees and factors; and that
the moneys received by them on account of sales, of right
belonged to their consignors and principals. It knew from
the draft received that a shipment had been made to the Rappals. It knew that it had failed to give notice of the nonpayment of the first and smaller draft, and so had put it out
of the power of the consignors to protect themselves against
the subsequent misconduct of the consignees and factors. It
knew, or was chargeable with the knowledge of the fact, that
the consignors were confiding in the consignees and factors on
the strength of the representations it had made. Upon nonpayment of the first and smaller draft, it knew that it was in
a position to easily acquire knowledge of the exact facts; and
with its means of knowledge it remained inactive and silent.
With all these matters resting in actual or imputable knowledge, it accepts from the :Rappals, consignees and factors, the
proceeds of the sale of cattle consigned to them by the Gillespies. Can it be that it is not held to know that it was taking
from the IRappals the proceeds of complainants' property consigned to them for sale, to discharge their debt to it? While
the obligation of a factor to his principal is not a debt created
by one acting in a fiduciary capacity, within the meaning of
the bankrupt law, as was adjudged in C]lapman v. Forsyth, 2
How. 202, and Henneuin v. Clews, 111 U. S. 676, the question here is not as to the character of the obligation of factor
to principal, but as to the liability of one who takes from a
factor, in payment of his debt, moneys which he knows equitably belong to that factor's consignor and principal. Justice
forbids the upholding of, such a transaction, and demands that

OCTOBER TERMvI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the bank, receiving from the factor in payment of a debt
from the factor to itself, moneys which it must have known
were the proceeds of the property received from his consignor
and principal, account to that principal for the moneys so
received and appropriated. The question of right must be
resolved in favor of the rulings of the Circuit Court, and it
must be affirmed that the complainants are entitled to the
moneys so received by the bank. It is equitable, therefore,
that the decree be affirmed, if the suit be one of which equity
may take cognizance; and so we pass to the second question,
that of jurisdiction.
We are met with the proposition that equity ought not to
interfere when the law furnishes a remedy; that when a bank
has money in its possession which, in fact, belongs to a third
party, received from whatever source it may be, an action
at law will lie; and that, therefore, no case for equitable
cognizance is presented. But this latter proposition has some
limitations. It may be true if the full legal title to the
moneys is in such third party; but it is not true when his
title is equitable rather than legal; and the right of these complainants as against the bank, to the moneys deposited by
their factor, is equitable. True, the obligation of a factor to
his principal for moneys received on the sale of property consigned to him for. sale is not a debt created by one acting in a
fiduciary capacity, within the meaning of the bankrupt law,
but it does not follow that no fiduciary obligation inheres in
such debt. The case of Chapman v. Forsyth, 2 How. 202,
turned not so much on the existence of a trust obligation as
on the question as to what trust obligations were intended by
the bankrupt act. The court observes: "The cases enumerated, 'the defalcation of a public officer,' 'executor,' 'administrator,' 'guiardian,' or 'trustee,' are not cases of implied but
special trusts, and the 'other fiduciary capacity' mentioned
must mean the same class of trusts. The act speaks of technical trusts, and not those which the law implies from the contract. A factor is not, therefore, within the act." It cannot
be doubted that an element of a fiduciary nature enters into
the obligation of the factor -an element different from that

UNION STOCK YARDS BANK v. GILLESPIE,

421

Opinion of the Court.

which exists in case of vendor and purchaser. There is a confidence beyond that in the capacity and willingness of a debtor
to pay; there is a reliance of a principal on his agent, a confidence that the agent will do as his principal directs, and be
loyal to the duties springing from such relation. When property is consigned to a factor, and before sale, who doubts the
continuing title of the principal, or his power to restrain
unauthorized disposition of such property, or to compel observance by the factor of all the conditions of the trust reposed in
him? Can it be that on the moment of sale all these rights
of the principal and consignor end, and that there has arisen
in their place nothing but a simple debt from factor to principal, with absolute power on the part of the factor to dispose
of the moneys received as he sees fit, and with no power on
the part of the principal to challenge such misappropriation,
when the party who receives the moneys knows the wrongful
act of the factor ? While it may be true that a legal title to
the moneys received on such sale is in the factor rather than
in the principal, so that the principal may not maintain an
action at law as against one receiving such moneys from the
factor; yet, equitably, those moneys belong to the principal,
and equitably they may be followed into the hands of any
person who receives them chargeable with notice of their trust
character. The case of .Yational Bank v. Insurance Company, 104 U. S. 54, is in point. In that case one Dillon was
the agent of the insurance company. He kept an account
with the bank - the account was entered on the bank books
with him as general agent. As agent of the insurance company he collected, and it was his duty to remit, the premiums.
In the course of his dealings with the bank he borrowed
money on his personal obligation. Finally the bank sought
to appropriate his deposits to the payment of this debt.
The insurance company filed its bill in equity to recover the
amount of those deposits ,as equitably belonging to it. The
fact that they were premiums received for the insurance company was shown. It was held that, under the circumstances,
the bank received them with knowledge that, though the legal
title to the moneys was in Dillon, the beneficial ownership

OCTOBER TERI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

was in the insurance company, and the decree in favor of the
insurance company was therefore sustained. This court, by
Mr. Justice Matthews, discusses the question of the liability of
the bank to the insurance company and the necessity of a suit
in equity to establish the rights of the company in these
words: "It is objected that the remedy of the complainant
below, if any existed, is at law and not in equity. But the contract created by the dealings in a bank account is between the
depositor and bank alone, without reference to the beneficial
ownership of the moneys deposited. No one can sue at law
for a breach of that contract, except the parties to it. There
was no privity created by it, even upon the facts of the present case, as we have found them, between the bank and the
insurance company. The latter would not have been liable to
the bank for an overdraft by Dillon, as was decided by this
court in N7ational Bank v. Insurance Company, 103 U. S.
783; and, conversely, for the balance due from the bank, no
action at law upon the account could be maintained by the
insurance company. But although the relation between the
bank and its depositor is that merely of debtor and creditor,
and the balance due on the account is only a debt, yet the
question is always open, 'To whom in equity does it beneficially belong? If the money deposited belonged to a third
person, and was held by the depositor in a fiduciary capacity,
its character is not changed by being placed to his credit in
his bank account." See also .Aanhattan,Bank v. WValker, 130
U. S. 267.
The case in 104 U. S., with the authorities cited in it, is
decisive of this. The legal title to these moneys deposited
was in the Rappals; so it was in that case in Dillon. The
beneficial ownership is in the Gillespies; there it was in the
insurance company. The circumstances surrounding the deposits, and the relations between the depositor and the bank,
were such as to impart notice to the bank that the beneficial
ownership was outside of the legal title. With that notice, it
had no right to appropriate the deposits to pay the obligations
of the depositor to the bank, but it was properly adjudged
liable in a suit in equity, and in that alone, to the claims of

BUSELL TRUIM

RE CO. v. STEVENS.
Syllabus.

the beneficial owner. Here the beneficial owner was the
Gillespies; the legal title was in the :Rappals; but when they
deposited with the bank, the latter received the moneys with
notice that the beneficial ownership was elsewhere than in the
Rappals. It could not in equity take them and cancel their
private debt to it. What might have been the duty of the
bank in respect to a check drawn by the Rappals upon these
moneys, in favor of a third party, in view of their legal title
and primary control, and what equities the Gillespies might
have in case the bank had paid such a check, are questions
not now before us, and in respect to which we express no
opinion. We only decide that, under the circumstances of
this case, the bank could not in equity take these particular
deposits from the Rappals in payment of their debt to it. As
the claim of the Gillespies against the bank was equitable
purely, equity alone had jurisdiction.
We conclude, therefore, that the proper forum was sought,
and the decree was right ; and it is
Affimed.

BUSELL TRIMMER COMPANY v. STEVENS.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 71.

Argued November 12, 13,1390. -Decided

December 15,1890.

Letters patent No. 238,303, granted to William Orcutt, Mlarch 1, 1881, for
improvements in rotary cutters for trimming the edges of bQot and shoe
soles, although the patented claim shows great industry on the part of
the patentee in acquiring a thorough knowledge of what others had
done in the attempt to trim shoe soles in a rapid and improved mode, by
the various devices perfected by patents for that purpose, good judgment
in selecting and combining the best of them, with no little mechanical
skill in their application, are nevertheless invalid for want of patentable
invention, as the claim presents no discoverable trace of the exercise of
original thought, aun is only an improvement in degree upon previous
cutters, and therefore not patentable.
There is no substantial difference between the improved cutter for cutting the
teeth of geer wheels, etc., patented to Joseph R. Brown by letters patent

