BANK OF BRITISH NORTH AMERICA v. COOPER. 473
Syllabus.

sufficient to justify a decree setting aside, upon the ground of
fraud, a compromise made as far back as 1873; especially,
when the party to be affected by such a decree has become
incapable, from impairment of intellect, to present his side of
the question. Upon the whole case we are of opinion that the
ends of justice will be best subserved by not disturbing that

compromise.
These views render it unnecessary to consider other questions argued by counsel, and require an affirmance of the
decree.
_Afft'rmed.

BANK OF BRITISH NORTH AMERICA v. COOPER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 103. Argued December 5, 1890. -Decided

December 22, 1890.

Facts contested in a trial before a jury must be taken in this court to be as
determined by the verdict.
The mere receipt of a bill on payment of money is not an assent to the
proposition that the bill contains the whole contract between the parties,
but whether it is so or not is a fact to be determined by the jury.
A party receiving moneys from another to be transmitted for him to a
named destination, in order that they may be used there to pay his liabilities, cannot change the destination at the desire of the party to whom
the money is sent, without becoming liable for the loss, in case loss
ensues in consequence of the change.
In the relation of principal and agent, strict compliance by the latter with
the instructions of the former is an unvarying condition of exemption
from liability.
C in New York, who had had business relations with M. & Co. of
Glasgow, drew upon them for £5000, to mature February 29. On February 26th he bought of plaintiff in error, who had an office in London,
a cable transfer of this amount in favor of MI. & Co. to be transmitted in
a check by post from London to Glasgow, and took from the bank a
receipt "for cable transfer on the Bank of British North America, London, in favor of" M2.& Co. " Glasgow." The cable message was accordingly sent, but the London office, under previous directions from M. &
Co. as to all such matters, but without knowledge of C, instead of forwarding the check to Glasgow, deposited it to the credit of M. & Co.
in the Bank of Scotland in London, which action was approved by Il &

.1471

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Co. On the 28th or 29th of February M. & Co. suspended. It was in
evidence that on the 28th they applied similar moneys to the payment of
similar obligations, and that if the check had been sent by mail as
directed, it would have reached Glasgow on the morning of that day in
time to be applied to the payment of C's draft. The Bank of Scotland
appropriated the £5000 to the payment of the balance due from M. & Co.
to it, and C was obliged to meet his draft. In an action by him against
the Bank of British North America, Held,
(1) That whether the bill contained the entire contract between the
parties was a question for the jury;
(2) That the bank, having received the money with knowledge that it
belonged to C, and that it was to be used in the payment of his
liabilities, could not substitute for his instructions the wishes of
the party to whom he was remitting the money;
(3) That when his instructions were disobeyed and a loss ensued, that
loss would prima faede fall upon the bank, and the burden was
upon it to show that obedience to the instructions would have
produced a like result.

THn case is stated in the opinion.
lr.

Stephen P. .ash for plaintiff in error.

Mr. John A. Bowers for defendant in error.

Mn. JusTIcE BREwFR delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action at law, brought by the defendant in
error in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York. The trial resulted in a judgment
in his favor, and the defendant there has brought such judgment here on error. As the case was tried before a jury, contested facts must be accepted to be as alleged by the plaintiff,
because resolved in his favor by the verdict. Lancaster v.
Collins, 115 U. S. 229.
The facts thus established are these: For some years prior
to the transaction in controversy, the plaintiff Cooper had had
business relations with the firm of Martin, Turner & Co., of
Glasgow, Scotland. In consequence of these relations, he bad
had frequent occasions to remit money to that firm, and many
of such transactions had been carried on through the agency
of the defendant. He had, on December 14, 1883, drawn a

BANK OF BRITISH NORTH AMERICA v. COOPER.

475

Opinion of the Court.

draft on the firm of Martin, Turner & Co. for five thousand
pounds sterling, which became due on the 29th of February,
18S4. It was his duty to provide funds for the payment of
that draft, and the defendant knew that such was his duty.
The duty was his; the moneys therefor were his. The defendant had an office in London, as well as in New York. On the
26th of February Cooper called at the office of defendant in
New York, and purchased and paid for a cable transfer of five
thousand pounds to Martin, Turner & Co. The bill which he
received was in these words:
"NEw YouK, 26th Feb., 1884.
"W. B. Cooper, Jr., Dr., to the agents Bank of British North
America, 52 Wall street, for cable transfer on the Bank of
British North America, London, in favor of Martin, Turner &
Co., Glasgow, 5000 pounds, at

4.90 ........
Cost of cable ....

.................
...............

$24,525
2

$24,527"
The cable message was in cypher, and the cyphers thereto.
fore arranged with Cooper represented the following phrases:
"Martin, Turner & Co., Glasgow, ac. W. B. Cooper, Jr.," and
"Martin, Turner & Co., 3 Market Buildings, 29 Mincing Lane,
ac. W. B. Cooper, Jr." Beyond this was an arrangement for
transmission by telegraph from London to Glasgow, which
involved an additional expense. When Cooper called to purchase this cable transfer, he was asked whether he wished
transmission by telegraph or mail, and answered that he
wanted a check mailed to Glasgow. So the contract established by the verdict of the jury, in accordance with his testimony, was one for the transmission by mail of a check from
London to Glasgow for the five thousand pounds. The cable
directing such transfer was sent as ordered; but the London
office, instead of forwarding a check to Glasgow, on the 27th
of February deposited the amount in the Bank of Scotland,
at London, to the credit of Martin, Turner & Co. It did this
on the strength of a request communicated to it by Martin,
Turner & Co., some months prior thereto, to deposit with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Bank of Scotland in London all amounts received to their
credit. Cooper knew nothing of this request, and relied upon
strict compliance with his directions. On the day that the
deposit was made with the Bank of Scotland, Martin, Turner
& Co. were advised both by wire and by letter thereof, and
wrote approving such action. On the 28th or 29th of February, 2Martin, Turner & Co. suspended in consequence of
advices received from India, and the Bank of Scotland appropriated the funds. in its possession to the payment of their
overdrawn account; so this cabled amount was not applied to
the taking up of Cooper's draft, and he was thereafter compelled to pay it. If the money had been sent by mail from
London to Glasgow, as directed, the draft would have reached
the latter place on the morning of the 28th, and would, as
shown by the testimony of some of the members of the firm
of Martin, Turner & Co., have been appropriated, as other like
drafts then received, to the special purpose for which the
transmission was made. In brief, the neglect of the defendant to follow the specific instructions of the plaintiff in regard
to the transmission prevented the appropriation of the amount
transmitted to the payment of plaintiff's draft, and secured its
appropriation to an obligation of Martin, Turner & Co. to the
Bank of Scotland. It is true that this disregard of instructions
was owing to a special request theretofore made by the payee
of the draft; but such special request does not disturb the fact
that the instructions of the plaintiff were disregarded, and that
he suffered loss in consequence therefrom. It would seem from
this general statement that the liability of the defendant could
not be doubted. It had no contract with the payee of the
draft; its contract obligations were with the sender of the
money; and it is the general law of agency that disregard of
the explicit instructions of the principal casts upon the agent
liability for any loss resulting therefrom.
After the testimony was closed, counsel for the defendant
moved to strike from the case all parol evidence tending to
affect the legal construction of the bill heretofore quoted,
which motion was overruled. The contention now is, that
that bill stated the contract with all its terms, and, being in

BANK OF BRITISH NORTH AMERICA v. COOPER.

477

Opinion of the Court.

writing, could not be varied or controlled by parol testimony.
But this contention begs the question. The mere receipt of
a bill of parcels or bill of lading, on payment of money or
delivery of goods, is not necessarily an assent to the proposition that such bill of parcels or bill of lading states the contract and the whole contract between the parties. Such bills
may or may not be the contract. They may be nothing more,
and intended to be nothing more, than memoranda or receipts.
Whether they are the entire contract, or simply in the nature
of receipts, is not a question of law for the court, but one of
fa4 for the jury. The case of Mobile & -Montgomery Railway Co. v. Jurey, 111 U. S. 584, is suggestive. There, on a
shipment of goods, it was insisted that a bill of lading voiced
the entire contract. The trial court opened the door to inquiry
as to the terms of the real contract between the parties, and
the circumstances under which the bill of lading was given
and received, and left it to the jury to determine whether the
bill of lading was or was not the contract. The ruling of
that court was affirmed by this. We think, therefore, there
was no error in denying this motion, and leaving the question
of fact to the determination of the jury. Even if inquiry
were limited to the bill itself, the description of the place,
Glasgow, therein, certainly suggests that delivery was intended
at that place, and may not unreasonably be construed as meaning not merely that it was the place of business of Martin,
Turner & Co., but also the place to which the money was to
be remitted. _F¢7ley v. Pope, 115 U. S. 213.
A further contention of plaintiff in error is this: The contract between the plaintiff and defendant was to deliver five
thousand pounds to Martin, Turner & Co., in fact, a delivery
was made in the manner and at the place requested by
Martin, Turner & Co., and the delivery approved b:r them;
and it is urged that if the money was to go to Martin, Turner & Co., and the defendant was instructed to deliver it
to them, it might deliver it to them at any place and in
any manner they desired. Whatever force there might be
in this argument, if the money belonged to Martin, Turner
& Co., it is of no weight, inasmuch as the money belonged

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

to Cooper, as was known to the defendant, and was sent by
him to take up his own paper. The case of Southern Express
Co. v. Dickson, 94 U. S. 549, was properly held by the trial
court decisive of this question. 30 Fed. Rep. 171. It is true
that that case was one of the consignment of goods; but the
principle is the same. There goods belonging to the shipper
were handed by him to an express company for transportation
to a place mentioned, for delivery there to a person named.
At the request of the consignee, the express company made
the delivery at another place, in consequence whereof the
shipper lost his goods; and the express company was held
liable, because, although consigned to a named consignee, they
were delivered for transportation to him at a named place;
and they were, as known to the express company, the property of the shipper. The failure to obey the specific instructions of the owner and shipper resulted in loss; and it was
properly held that the consignee could not interfere with
those instructions, and that the company could not recognize
him as owner, and obey other instructions than those of the
shipper and known owner. So, here, the defendant received
these moneys knowing that they belonged to Cooper, and that
they were to be used for the payment of his liabilities; and it
could not substitute for his instructions the wishes of the
parties to whom he was sending the money. It is not the
case of one employing the defendant to transfer moneys to a
third party, which he owes such third party, in which case the
debt of the sender may be discharged whenever the party to
whom the money is sent receives it.
Another contention of plaintiff in error is this: Had the
money been remitted by mail from London to Glasgow, and
reached there on the 28th, how can it be affirmed that Martin,
Turnet & Co. would have appropriated this money to the
payment of the intended draft? Might they not have passed
it into the volume of their assets, for equal distribution among
their creditors? Of course, no positive affirmation can be
made in response. It cannot be absolutely declared that
Martin, Turner & Co. would have appropriated the check to
the specific purpose intended by the plaintiff. It is true the

BANK OF BRITISH NORTH AMERICA v. COOPER.

479

Opinion of the Court.

testimony of the two members of that firm shows that on the
28th moneys transmitted and received for special purposes
were appropriated thereto, and indicates that probably a like
action would have attended the check if received on the 28th.
But we do not understand that the certainty of a different
result must be established ; on the contrary, the burden of proof
is on the defendant. If positive instructions are disobeyed and
loss results, primafacieliability for that loss ensues; and the
burden is on the defendant, the disobeying agent, to prove
that obedience would have brought a like result. The fair
conclusion from the testimony is, that obedience would have
prevented loss. It certainly cannot be affirmed that the same
loss would have resulted if the instructions had been obeyed.
There can, as a rule, be little hardship, and there is generally
great benefit, in holding an agent bound to absolute compliance with the explicit instructions of his principal. In view
of the manifold contingencies of business transactions, and the
wide range of possibilities that attend any act of a commercial nature, few 'things could be more unfortunate than to
incorporate into established law the right of an agent to disobey specific instructions, and to make a guess as to results an
excuse for relief from accruing loss. Uniform recognition and
enforcement of certain settled and clear rules are important.
Among them, few are more significant or more essential than
that in the relation of principal and agent strict compliance
by the latter with the instructions of the former is an unvarying condition of exemption from liability. Loss from disregard thereof must be borne by the agent, unless he establishes
that the disregard had no connection with the loss, and that
it would certainly have followed whether instructions were
obeyed or disregarded.
The verdict of the jury in this case establishes 'a disregard
of instructions. Confessedly, loss resulted, and it cannot be
affirmed that the same loss would have resulted if instructions
had been obeyed. We conclude, therefore, that the judgment
was right, and it is
Af rmed.
MR. JUsTicE GRAY did not sit in this case and took no part
in its decision.

