CADWALADER v. PARTRIDGE.
Opinion of the Court.

CADWALADER v. PARTRIDGE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE;

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 311. Submitted November 25, 1890.-Decided December 22, 1890.

Merritt v. Cameron, ante, 542, affirmed and followed.
A change in the ruling of the Treasury Department whereby merchandise
in bond, such as is involved in this case, is held dutiable at a greatly
reduced rate, is of no aid to an importer who has not protested against
the previous ruling.

THIS was an action against the collector of the port of
Philadelphia to recover duties alleged to have been illegally
exacted. Judgment for the plaintiffs, to review which the
defendant sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in
the opinion.
.h'.

Solicitor Generalfor plaintiff in error.

.M. F'ank P. P richardfor defendants in error.
AIR. JUSTICE

LzxAR delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action at law by Artemus Partridge and
Thomas D. Richardson, trading as Partridge & Richardson,
against John Cadwalader, collector of customs for the District
of Philadelphia, to recover back certain alleged illegal and
excessive duties exacted on merchandise imported at that port
by them.
The only defence set up by the collector was, that the protest of the importers against the assessment of the duties was
not filed with him within .ten days from the ascertainment
and liquidation of them, as required by section 2931 of the
Revised Statutes.
The case was tried by the court and a jury, which returned
a special verdict, substantially as follows: On June 28, and
July 22, 1886, the plaintiffs, who were merchants in Philadel-

OCTOBER TERI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

phia, imported into that port three cases of buttons, which
were duly entered for warehouse, in bond, the proper bonds
being given on each entry. On the 27th of July, and the
14th of August, 1886, respectively, the collector liquidated the
duties on the entries, at the sum of $139.50, being at the rate
of 45 per cent ad valorem as brass buttons, under section 6 of
the act of March 3, 1883, which rate was in accordance with
the instructions of the Treasury Department then in force.
No protests were made by the plaintiffs against these liquidations, and no appeal was taken from those decisions of the
collector. On November 6, December 4 and December 8, 1886,
the plaintiffs withdrew the buttons from the warehouse for
consumption. In the meantime, the Treasury Department
had decided that the proper rate of duties on buttons of the
character of those imported was but 25 per cent ad valorem,
as buttons not specially enumerated or provided for. When
the buttons were withdrawn from the warehouse for consumption, at the dates aforesaid, the plaintiffs were compelled to
pay the duty as assessed and liquidated by the collector, to
wit, $139.50. Within ten days from the date of such withdrawals, the plaintiffs protested against that exaction of duty,
and afterwards appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury,
who, on February 25, 1887, affirmed the collector's decision.
This suit was brought on March 15, 1887. The amount of the
duty exacted, over and above the amount claimed by the
plaintiffs to be due, was $62.
The verdict concludes as follows: "And the said jurors say
that they are ignorant, in point of law, on which side they
ought, upon the facts, to find the issue; but that if the court
should be of opinion that plaintiffs were obliged to protest
against the liquidation made at the time of the entry of the
goods for warehouse, in order to take advantage of the illegality of the exaction of the duties at the time of the entry for
consumption, and application to withdraw from the warehouse, then they find for defendant; but that if the court
should be of opinion that plaintiff's protest, made within ten
days of the defendant's refusal to allow the goods to be withdrawn from the warehouse, except upon payment of the duties

CADWALADER v. PARTRIDGE.
Opinion of the Court.

in accordance with the liquidation made at the time of entry
for warehouse, was in time, then they find for the plaintiffs in
the sum of $62, with interest from December 8, 1886." On
this verdict the Circuit Court, on the 28th of October, 1887,
entered a judgment for $62 in favor of the plaintiffs, and the
collector thereupon sued out this writ of error.
This case is similar in all essential features to Jferritt v.
Cameron, ante, 542, just decided, except that the proceedings
in the custom-house in this case took place after AMay 2, 1885,
when the Treasury Department adopted the rule that protests
should be filed within ten days after the ascertainment and
liquidation of the duties; 'and we are not confronted, therefore, with a Treasury ruling at variance with the construction
we have put upon section 2931 of the Revised Statutes. The
protests in this case, as appears from the facts above set forth,
were too late, and the decision of the collector upon the ascertainment and liquidation of the duties thus became final.
We do not think the change in the ruling of the Treasury
Department, whereby merchandise such as is involved in this
case was held dutiable at a greatly reduced rate, makes any
material difference between this case and iXerritt v. Cameron.
On this point we are inclined to adopt the view of the Solicitor General that a decision by the Secretary, or by a court,
reversing a previous erroneous ruling of the Department, is of
no aid to an importer who has not duly protested against a
similar ruling with respect to another importation.
fIe judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case
is remanded to that court, with a direction to set aside the
verdict and grant a new trial.

