OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

AMBLER v. EPPINGER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 1383. Submitted December 1, 1890. -Decided December 22, 1890.
The provision in the act of MKarch 3, 1887, 24 Stat. c. 373, ยง 1, pp. 552, 553,
that no Circuit or District Court shall "have cognizance of any suit,
except upon foreign bills of exchange, to recover the contents of any
promissory note or other chose in action, in favor of any assignee, or of
any subsequent holder, if such instrument be payable to bearer, and be
not made by any corporation, unless such suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents if no assignment or
transfer had been made," does not apply to an action of trespass brought
by an assignee of the claim, to recover damages for cutting down and
removing timber from the land of the assignor.
THE

case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

This case comes before the court on a writ of error, under
the act of February 25, 1889, 25 Stat. c. 26, p. 693, to review
the decision of the Circuit Court, upon the question of its
jurisdiction. That act provides that, in all cases where a final
judgment or decree shall be rendered in a Circuit Court of the
United States, involving the question of its jurisdiction, the
party against whom the judgment or decree is rendered shall
be entitled to an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United
States, or to a writ of error from it, to review such judgment
or decree, without reference to its amount, except that, where
that does not exceed the sum of five thousand dollars, the
review shall be limited to the question of jurisdictiom
The plaintiff is a citizen of New York, and the action is
brought by him in his own right, and as assignee of John K.
Russell, against the defendants, who are citizens of Florida, to
recover as damages six thousand dollars, the alleged value of
three thousand trees and pine logs cut down by the defendants
upon the lands of the plaintiff and the said Russell in the
years 1885, 1886 and 1887, and carried away and converted to
their use. The declaration, after setting forth the entry by

AMBLER v. EPPINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendants upon the lands of the plaintiff and Russell, the
cutting down of the trees and their removal and conversion,
alleges that afterwards, in November, 1887, Russell, for a valuable consideration, sold and assigned to the plaintiff all his
right, title and interest in the pine trees and logs thus cut
down, removed and converted, and in the claim and demand
against the defendants, and that they refused to pay the plaintiff the value of the trees and timber, though payment was
often demanded. The declaration contains four counts, but
they all proceed for the same trespass and conversion, the
facts being stated with some additional particulars in the different counts, not affecting the question presented.
To the declaration the defendants demurred on several
grounds, all of which are embraced in this :-that it appeared
by the declaration that the grievances complained of were on
lands at the time jointly owned by the plaintiff and John K.
Russell, and that the right of action was, therefore, not the
subject of assignment.
The demurrer was overruled; the defendants thereupon
pleaded, and issue was joined. They then moved the court to
dismiss the action upon the alleged ground that it was shown
by the declaration that it had no jurisdiction thereof. This
motion was denied, and the plaintiff obtained a verdict for
eleven hundred dollars. A motion to arrest the judgment on
a similar ground was made and overruled. Judgment upon
the verdict was thereupon entered, to review which the case is
brought to this court.
X2-'. James ]owndes, for plaintiffs in error, submitted on his
brief.
ib,. H. Bisbee, for defendant in error, submitted on his
brief.
MR. JUSTicE FiELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The record is silent as to the citizenship of Russell, who
assigned his interest to the plaintiff; and the defendants below,
VOL. cxxxvn-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiffs in error here, contend that the Circuit Court was
therefore excluded by the act of ilarch 3, 1887, from jurisdiction of the action, it not appearing that he could have prosecuted in the Circuit Court a.suit upon the claim. That act,
after declaring in its first section that certain suits shall not be
brought in the Circuit or District Courts, adds: "Nor shall
any Circuit or District Court have cognizance of any suit,
except upon foreign bills of exchange, to recover the contents
of any promissory note or other chose in action, in favor of
any assignee, or of any subsequent holder, if such instrument
be payable to bearer and be not made by any corporation,
unless such suit might have been prosecuted in such court to
recover the said contents if no assignment or transfer had
been made." 24 Stat. c. 373, pp. 552, 553.
This act, as appears on its face, does not embrace, within its
exceptions to the jurisdiction of those courts, suits by an assignee upon claims like the demand in controversy. The
exceptions, aside from suits on foreign bills of exchange, are
limited to suits on promissory notes and other choses in action,
where the demand sought to be enforced is represented by an
instrument in writing, payable to bearer, and not made by a.
corporation, the words following the designation of choses in
action indicating the manner in which they are to be shown.
They must be such as arise upon contracts of the original
parties, and not founded, like the one in controversy, upon a
trespass to property.
The construction given by this court in _DesIder v. -Dodge,
16 How.622, to the clause in the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act, which denied to any Circuit or District Court "cognizance of any suit to recover the contents of any promissory
note or other chose in action, in favor of an assignee, unless a
suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the
said contents if no assignment had been made, except in cases
of foreign bills of exchange," is in harmony with the construction we give to the act of 1887. It was there held that the
exception by that section of the jurisdiction of those courts of
suits by an assignee did not extend to a suit on a chose in
action to recover possession of a specific chattel or damages

HOLDEN v. MINNESOTA.
Syllabus.

for its wrongful caption or detention, although the assignee
could not himself sue in that court. And in the subsequent
case of Bushnell v. Zennedy, 9 Wall. 387, it was said that the
exceptions to the jurisdiction applied only to rights of action
founded on contracts which contained within themselves some
promise or duty to be performed, and not to mere naked rights.
of action founded on some wrongful act or some neglect of'
duty to which the law attaches damages.
The judgment below being under five thousand dollars, no
other question than that of jurisdiction can be reviewed by
this court. The validity of the transfer of Russell's interest
in the timber removed and converted to the defendants' use,
and the effect of such transfer upon the amount of the plaintiff's recovery, are matters touching the merits of the action,
and are not open to consideration here.
Judgment affrmed

HOLDEN v. _MINNESOTA.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR.

THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 1237. Argued November 20, 21, 1890.-

Decided December 8, 1890.

Section 4 of the Minnesota statute of April 24, 1889, (Gen. Laws AMinn. 1889',
c. 20,) providing that, in case of sentence of death for murder in the first
degree, the convict shall be kept in solitary confinement after the issue
of the warrant of execution by the governor, and only certain persons
allowed to visit him, is an independent provision, applicable only to
offences committed after its passage, and is not expostfacto.
Section 7 of that statute, which repeals all acts or parts of acts inconsistent
with its provisions does not repeal the previous statute which prescribes
the punishment of murder in the first degree by death by hanging, and
that the execution should take place only after the issue of a warrant of
execution.
Section 3 of that statute, which requires the punishment of death by hanging to be inflicted before sunrise of the day on which the execution takes
place, and within the jail or some other enclosure higher than the
gallows, thus excluding the view from persons outside, and limiting the
number of those who -nay witness the execution, excluding altogether
reporters of newspapers, are regulations that do ntt affect the substan-

