1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

459 U. S.

KPNX BROADCASTING CO. ET AL. v. ARIZONA
SUPERIOR COURT ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-543.

Decided December 23, 1982

An application of a broadcasting company and several reporters and courtroom sketch artists to stay-pending review in the Arizona Supreme
Court--orders of a state trial court that (1) prohibited court personnel,
counsel, witnesses, and jurors in a murder case from speaking directly
with the press, and (2) directed that all sketches of jurors be reviewed by
the court before being broadcast on television, is denied. Given the procedural posture of this case, a stay is not warranted unless there is a risk
of irreparable injury together with a demonstrable departure by the trial
court from the law laid down in this Court's cases. Those elements are
not present here.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicants, KPNX Broadcasting Co. and several reporters
and courtroom sketch artists, ask that I stay two orders issued by the Superior Court of Maricopa County, Ariz. Applicants are reporting on a murder case presently being tried
before one of the judges of that court in Phoenix. This is the
third trial to arise out of the same murder; three accomplices
have been convicted in two previous jury trials. The crime
allegedly involves several conspiracies and other connections
with organized crime, and has generated extensive publicity.
Some members of the jury venire expressed a fear for personal and family safety if they were selected as jurors. The
trial court responded that it would do whatever was possible
to prevent their pictures from being displayed. Early in the
course of this trial, a magazine in Phoenix published an article about one of the prosecuting attorneys.
The trial has been open to the public and press at all times.
There has not been any restriction on the reporting of the
proceedings in open court. The trial court has, however, entered two orders that "restrict" the press from covering the
trial as it would like to do.

KPNX BROADCASTING CO. v. ARIZONA SUPERIOR COURT 1303
1302

Opinion in Chambers

First, the trial court ordered court personnel, counsel, witnesses, and jurors not to speak directly with the press. The
court appointed a court employee as "Liaison with the media"
to provide a "unified and singular source for the media concerning these proceedings."
Second, on November 30 the trial judge observed two of
the applicants, who are television sketch artists, drawing the
jurors. The court ordered that all drawings of jurors that
are to be broadcast on television be reviewed by the court before being broadcast.
After the second order was issued, an organization calling
itself the First Amendment Coalition sought a conference
with the trial judge to object to these orders. Nothing was
resolved at this conference, and the trial was then recessed
until December 6. On that day, the First Amendment Coalition filed a petition for special action with the Supreme Court
of Arizona, asking that court to vacate the two orders and
enjoin the trial judge from issuing any similar orders. The
Arizona Supreme Court dismissed this petition on December
8 on the ground that the First Amendment Coalition lacked
standing and the petitioners had failed to join as parties the
defendants in the murder trial.
On December 12, the present applicants filed a similar petition for special action and an application for a stay of the two
orders. The following day, the Arizona Supreme Court
denied the application for a stay and set the petition for oral
argument for hearing on January 18. On December 14, the
trial court held a hearing on applicants' standing to challenge
the orders in that court. The trial court decided that applicants have standing, and set a hearing on their application to
vacate the orders on December 17. Applicants also filed this
application on December 17.
On December 20, the trial court entered an order explaining its earlier orders and declining to vacate them. With
respect to the order that participants in the case not communicate with the press, the trial court stated that it had eval-

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

459 U. S.

uated the press' First Amendment rights against the defendants' Sixth Amendment rights to a fair trial. It found that
the least restrictive course of conduct that would protect the
defendants' rights was to restrict the participants' outside
contact with the press and appoint a court official to
answer questions about the proceedings. As to the sketch
order, the court held that the sketches of jurors by television
artists were used in lieu of actual video recording of the
jurors during the proceedings. It held that there is no constitutional right to broadcast pictures of the jurors, relying
on Chandlerv. Florida, 449 U. S. 560 (1981), and Nixon v.
Warner Communications, Inc., 435 U. S. 589 (1978).
Applicants contend that the order that trial participants
not communicate with the press conflicts with Nebraska
PressAssn. v. Stuart, 427 U. S. 539 (1976), and with several
decisions from the Federal Courts of Appeals. Applicants
contend there was no showing that the order was necessary
to protect the defendants' right to a fair trial. Respondents
contend that this order is supportable on the merits because
the trial court has struck a proper balance between the
defendants' right to a fair trial and the press' First Amendment rights. They point out that nothing in the order limits
the press' right to attend the trial and report anything it
observes.
Applicants also contend that the order prohibiting broadcast of sketches of the jurors is an unconstitutional prior
restraint. They contend the decision conflicts with Stuart,
supra, and with the decisions of several State Supreme
Courts. Respondents contend that this order is based on an
interpretation of the Arizona Supreme Court's guideline concerning television coverage of trials. Since the order applies
only to television, respondents contend that it is correct
under Chandler v. Florida, supra.
These facts seem to place the issues in the general area of
constitutional law that is covered by our decisions in cases

KPNX BROADCASTING CO. v. ARIZONA SUPERIOR COURT 1305
1302

Opinion in Chambers

such as Globe Newspaper Co. v. Superior Courtfor County
of Norfolk, 457 U. S. 596 (1982); Richmond Newspapers,
Inc. v. Virginia, 448 U. S. 555 (1980); Gannett Co. v.
DePasquale,443 U. S. 368 (1979); and Nebraska Press Assn.
v. Stuart, supra. It does not appear that stays were sought
from this Court in any but the last of these four cases; and the
present case is in a posture very similar to that of Stuart,
supra, when that case was before JUSTICE BLACKMUN on an
application for stay. 423 U. S. 1319 (1975); 423 U. S. 1327
(1975). The applicants there, like the applicants in this case,
were seeking a stay of a state trial court order pending review of that order in the State Supreme Court. As JUSTICE
BLACKMUN pointed out, "[i]t is highly desirable, of course,
that the issue, concerning, as it does, an order by a ...

state

court, should be decided in the first instance by the Supreme
Court" of the State. 423 U. S., at 1325; 423 U. S., at 1328.
There, as here, the State Supreme Court had given some indication that it would not rule on the case for several weeks.
In these circumstances, JUSTICE BLACKMUN noted that
where "a direct prior restraint is imposed upon the reporting
of news by the media, each passing day may constitute a separate and cognizable infringement of the First Amendment."
Id., at 1329. JUSTICE BLACKMUN thought that parts of the
order at issue in Stuart created irreparable injuries that
required him to act before the State Supreme Court. The
applicants in that case were prohibited from "reporting of the
details of the crimes, of the identities of the victims, [and] of
the testimony of the pathologist at the preliminary hearing."
Id., at 1331. At the same time, JUSTICE BLACKMUN declined to stay other parts of the order, including a complete
prohibition on reporting that the accused had confessed, id.,
at 1332-1333, a ban on photography in the courthouse, and
restrictions on trial participants' contacts with the media, id.,
at 1334. JUSTICE BLACKMUN thought it proper to stay only
"the most obvious features that require resolution immediately and without one moment's further delay." Ibid.

1306

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

459 U. S.

Given the procedural posture of this case, it would seem
that in order for a stay to be granted before the case is heard
by the highest court of the State, there should be a risk of
irreparable injury together with a demonstrable departure
on the part of the trial court from the law laid down in our
cases. I simply do not find those elements to be present
here. The orders at issue in this case do not prohibit the reporting of any facts on the public record. The trial has never
been closed, and all the proceedings may be reported and
commented upon. With respect to the court's order barring
communication between trial participants and the press, it
seems to me that the following language from Sheppard v.
Maxwell, 384 U. S. 333 (1966), quoted with approval in Stuart, supra, at 553-554, goes far towards sustaining the action
of the trial court:
"Due process requires that the accused receive a trial by
an impartial jury free from outside influences ....
The
courts must take such steps by rule and regulation that
will protect their processes from prejudicial outside interferences. Neither prosecutors, counsel for defense,
the accused, witnesses, court staff nor the enforcement
officers coming under the jurisdiction of the court should
be permitted to frustrate its function. Collaboration between counsel and the press as to information affecting
the fairness of a criminal trial is not only subject to regulation, but is highly censurable and worthy of disciplinary measures." 384 U. S., at 362-363.
So far as communication between the trial participants and
the press during actual sessions of the court in the courtroom
and its immediate environs, I do not have the slightest doubt
that a trial judge may insist that the only performance which
goes on in the courtroom is the trial of the case at hand. The
fact that media coverage has transformed events such as
professional sports contests into a framework designed to accommodate that coverage does not mean that the First
Amendment requires criminal trials to undergo the same

KPNX BROADCASTING CO. v. ARIZONA SUPERIOR COURT 1307
1302

Opinion in Chambers

transformation. The mere potential for confusion if unregulated communication between trial participants and the press
at a heavily covered trial were permitted is enough to warrant a measure such as the trial judge took in this case.

Continuation of the proscription against communication to
hours and places where the court is not in session appears to
me to be warranted under the above-quoted language from
Sheppard, supra.
I find the requirement of clearance with the trial judge before sketches of the jurors may be shown on television the
more troubling of the two orders issued by the trial judge.
The judge limited the order to sketches drawn for television
showing, and did not include within it sketches to be reproduced in newspapers. He apparently made this distinction
because Chandler v. Florida,449 U. S. 560 (1981), suggests
a greater latitude in trial courts for regulating television coverage of a trial than for regulation of coverage by the press.
For this purpose I am somewhat at a loss to know why the
print media and the electronic media should be treated
differently, since whatever potential for disruption or distortion may exist would appear to be the same whether the
sketches are ultimately reprinted in newspapers or shown on
television.
But I cannot accept applicants' conclusion, drawn from this
distinction, that the limitation of the regulation of sketches
indicates that the trial judge did not regard it as essential; I
think he regarded it as essential, and probably would have
extended it to all sketches if he thought that the First
Amendment permitted him to do it. Likewise, the requirement of previous clearance of the sketches smacks, at least in
the abstract, of the notion of "prior restraint," which has
been roundly condemned in a long line of our cases beginning
with Near v. Minnesota ex rel. Olson, 283 U. S. 697 (1931).
I think that in all probability the trial judge's order would be
more defensible on federal constitutional grounds if he had
flatly banned courtroom sketching of the jurors, and if he had

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

459 U. S.

extended the ban to those who sketch for the print media as
well as to those who sketch for television.
But balancing the doubts that this portion of the judge's
second order generates against the procedural posture of the
case, I conclude that the application for a stay should be denied. Surely all of the lofty historical reasons which have
been advanced in our opinions to support the right of public
and press access to criminal trials contemplate the traditional

criminal trial as a public governmental procedure of some importance to every citizen. I would think that of all conceivable reportorial messages that could be conveyed by reporters or artists watching such trials, one of the least necessary
to appreciate the significance of the trial would be individual
juror sketches.
Stuart is a prototypical example of a recent case in this
area which has admonished trial courts to employ their usually considerable discretion to search for other alternatives
than prior restraints in order to protect the defendant's constitutional right to a fair trial and the State's interest in a
verdict which may be upheld on appeal. I am satisfied that
the trial judge has indeed sought for these alternatives here,
and I do not find them so demonstrably impermissible as to
warrant a stay at this stage of the proceedings. The application is therefore
Denied.

