DE ARNAUD v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

involved no discrimination against the railroad company.
The State having the undoubted authority to fix the situs
of such property, and having lawfully distributed it proportionately between the several counties traversed by the
road, it thereby became subject to the same rate of taxation
as other property in the respective counties. This involved
no inequality, and violated no provision of either the state
or Federal Constitution. It certainly did not involve a failure
to extend to the plaintiff in error the equal protection of the
laws.
The Federal question involved in the case was correctly
decided by the Supreme Court of the State, and the judgment
Affirmed.
of that court is therefore

DE ARNAUD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF OLA.S.
No. 550. Submitted January 8,1894. -Decided

January 29, 1894.

A receipt signed by a claimant against the United States for a sum less than

he had claimed, paid him by the disbursing agent of a department, "in
full for the above account," is, in the absence of allegation and evidence
that it was given in ignorance of its purport, or in circumstances constituting duress, an acquittance in bar of any further demand.
A claim against the United States whose prosecution in the Court of Claims
was barred by the statute of limitations, was presented to the Treasury
for adjustment and payment. The Secretary of the Treasury transmitted
it to the Court of Claims under the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 1063.
Held, that it was barred by the statute of limitations.

Tis was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims,
dismissing the petition of Charles de Arnaud, in which he
sought for a judgment in his favor against the United States
for the sum of $100,000, for services the petitioner alleged he
had rendered as a "military expert," employed for "special
and important duties," by General Fremont for and on behalf
of the United States.
The facts of the case, as found by the court below, were as
follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

The claimant is a native subject of Russia, residing in the
United States. The following is a translation of the provisions
of the law of Russia, according to citizens of the United States
the right to prosecute claims against such government in its
courts:
"SEc. 1292. The decision of the court is announced to both
parties according to general rules, but independently thereof a
copy of the decision is forwarded to the local government
the institution spoken of in section 2084.
"SEC. 1296. In the execution of a judgment against a government institution the claimant presents a certified abstract
of the decision to the institution, which is bound to execute
the judgment accordingly.
"SEC. 1519. Aliens residing in Russia are subject to Russian
laws, as well personally as in regard to property, and enjoy
the common defence of safeguards and protection thereof.
"SEC. 1288. Claims of private persons against the government institutions are governed by general rules, and are brought
according to the location of the property or according to the
place where the loss was sustained by the private person, or
according to the place where the government institution or
where the government officer is situated or resides who represents the government in court."
The claimant came to this country about the year 1860, and
was, prior to that time, an officer in the Russian army, where
he served in the Crimean war as lieutenant of engineers, and
was serving as such when the armistice was concluded between
Russia and the contending allies.
In the year 1861 John C. Fremont was a major-general in
the United States Army, in command of the Western Department of Missouri. In the month of August, 1861, he entered
into an agreement with the claimant, by which the claimant
was employed by him to go within the Confederate lines, make
observations of the country in the States of Kentucky, Tennessee, and Missouri, to observe the position of the rebel forces,
the strategic positions occupied by them, and advise him
(General Fremont) of the movements necessary to be made by
the Union forces to counteract the movements of the enemy,

DE ARNIAUD

v. UNITED STATES.

Statement of the Case.

and to facilitate the advance of our troops and aid them in
attacking and repulsing the Confederate forces.
In .consequence of that arrangement he did go within the
Confederate lines, and, agreeably to what he was instructed
to do, brought back to General Fremont full information of
the kind desired, maps of the country, of various roads, the
number of troops, their stations, condition, and, as far as he
could judge and find out, their projected movements.
He was absent on that business a number of days, came
back, and reported in St. Louis about the 12th of August, 1861,
to General Fremont, who was so satisfied with the information
that he brought, with the intelligence and sagacity he displayed
in collecting it, and the usefulness of his information, that he
(Fremont) then made an arrangement for him to continue in
the service of the department. About the 12th of the month
of August, 1861, he again left for the country occupied by the
Confederate forces to collect information. The most important
part of the services rendered by him was in the beginning of
the next month, September, when, with the information that
he had collected, he was returning to report to General Fremont a movement of the Confederate forces upon Paducah.
On reaching Cairo he found that he had only time to report to
Fremont by telegraph, and reported forthwith personally to
General Grant, informing him that troops were advancing
upon Paducah, and that it was necessary to move immediately
in order to occupy the place. General Grant did move instantly
and took possession of Paducah, Kentucky, solely on information given by the claimant, and to the effect that the rebels
were moving upon that city with a large force.
The claimant was paid $600 on the following orders and
receipts:
"HEADQUARTERS

WESTERN DEinA=ET,

11CA-A NEAR JEFFERSON CIry, Oct. 6, 1861.
"Major PHn=mN-y, U. S. A., Paymaster, etc.:
"Will pay to Charles de Arnaud the sum of three hundred
dollars ($300) for secret service.

J. 0. F~moNr,

".Major General."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"Received, Warsaw, Mo., October 23, 1861, of Major Jas.
H. Phinney, paymaster U. S. A., the sum of three hundred
($300) 'for account of secret service rendered to the U. States'
by special order of Major-Gen'l Fremont, dated near Warsaw,
Mo., Oct. 23, 1861.
CHAS. DE ARNAuD."
"IN

THE FIELD,

1861.
"Major Phinney will pay to the bearer, Mr. Charles de
Arnaud, three hundred dollars for secret service to the United
States.
J. C. FREMONT,
"Afajor General Comrm'd'g."
"HEADQUARTERS

WESTERN DEPARTMENT, Oct. 23,

"Received, Jefferson City, October 6, 1861, from Major
J. H. Phinney, three hundred dollars for secret service, as per
special order of Major-Gen'l J. C. Fremont of this date.

$300.
"(Signed duplicate)

CHAS. DE ARN±U."

On January 6, 1862, the claimant presented his claim to the
War Department, and it was reported upon by the quarter:
master as follows:
"No. 22. -The United States to Charles de Arnaud, Dr.
"January 6, 1862. - For special services rendered to United
States government in traveling through the rebel parts of
Kentucky, Tennessee, etc., and procuring information concerning the enemy's movements, etc., which led to successful results (as per certificate hereunto appended), $3600.
"Q. M. GEN'L'S OFFICE, 9th Jan'y, 1862.
"In view of the certificate of Gen. Grant of 30th Nov. and
the more general certificate of Maj.-Gen. Fremont of 2d Jan'y,
herewith, covering all of Mr. Arnaud's services, the sum of
thirty-six hundred dollars appears to me to be a not unreasonable compensation. I state this at Mr. Arnaud's earnest
request.
M. C. MEIGS,
" Q. -. Genl."

DE ARNAUD v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

On the 13th of January the claimant went to President
Lincoln and laid before him his claim with the following
letters:

"CAmo, ILL., January 6, 1862.
<"Hon. A. LNcoLN, President U. S. A. :'
"The bearer, Charles de Arnaud, has to my knowledge
rendered important services to the government. He, at the
risk of his life, gave information which led to our capture of
Paducah, Ky., in advance of the rebels; thereby he saved the
country thousands of lives and millions of dollars. I fully
indorse his certificate of Maj. Gen. J. C. Fremont. He is
entitled to the largest remuneration the government pays for
tuch services.
"Respectfully, etc.,
A. H. FooTE,
"Flag Officer."
"HEADQUARTERS

DISTRICT SOUTHEAST MISSOURI,

'"CAMo, .Yovember 31, 1861.
"CHAS.

DE ARNAUD:

"Sm : In reply to your request, and the note from MajorGeneral Halleck presented me by yourself, I can state I took
possession of Paducah, Ky., solely on information given by
yourself, and to the effect that the rebels were marching upon
that city with a large force. This information I afterwards
had reason to believe was fully verified: First, because as we
approached the city secession flags were flying and the citizens
seemed much disappointed that Southern troops expected by
them were not in advance of us. It was understood that they
would arrive that day. I also understood afterwards that
a force of some four thousand Confederate troops were actually on their way for Paducah when taken possession of by
my order. A point through which many valuable supplies
were obtained for the Southern army was cut off by this
move, and a large quantity- of provisions, leather, etc., supposed to be for the use of the Southern army, captured. For
the value and use to which these were put I refer you to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

General Paine, whom I left in command. Only remaining in
Paducah a few hours, and being busily engaged with other
matters during that time, I can make no estimate of the cash
value of the stores captured.
U. S. GRAI-T, Brig. Gen."
"Yours, etc.,
"ASTOR HousE, INw YORK,January 2, 1862.
"This is to certify that Mr. Charles de Arnaud was employed by me from about the first of August in traveling
throughout the rebel parts of Tennessee and Kentucky, with
the object of ascertaining the strength, condition, and probable
movements of the rebel forces. He made under my directions
many such journeys, reporting fully and in detail upon the
force of the various encampments and the condition and
strength of garrisons and various works in Tennessee and
along the Mississippi River. He obtained this information at
much personal risk and with singular intelligence, and performed the duties entrusted to him entirely to my satisfaction.
He continued on this duty until the termination of my command in the western department. His services were valuable
to the government, and I consider entitled to the largest consideration that the government allows in such cases or to such
J. 0. FREMOuNT,
agents.
".Aaj. Gen'l, U. S. A."
President Lincoln folded the letters together and wrote on
the back of General Grant's letter the following:
"I have no time to investigate this claim; but I desire the
accounting officers to investigate it, and if it be found just and
equitable to pay it, notwithstanding any want of technical
legality or form.
A. LrxcoLm."
"Jan. 13, 1862.
Thereafter, on the next day, January 14, the Secretary of
War made the following endorsement on said claim:
"I have considered this claim, and cannot bring my mind
to the conclusion that the sum charged is not exorbitant. I

DE ARNIAUD v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

am willing to allow $2000 in full of the claim, and the dis.
clerk, War Dep't, is authorized to pay Charles de Arnaud that
sum.
"War Dept., Jan'y 14, 1862.
"SDioN C~Awmow, Sec. War."
The claimant was thereupon paid, under protest, by said
disbursing clerk of the War Department, out of appropriation
for "contingencies of the army," $2000, and gave the following receipt:
"The United States to Charles de Arnaud, Dr.
"JAxuARY

14, 1862.

"For services and expenses as special agent of the gov't,

$2000.
"Received, Washington, January 21, 1862, from John Potts,
disbursing clerk for the War Department, two thousand dolCHAs. DE AnNAuD."
lars, in full, for the above account.
At the time of giving the receipt in full, January 14, 1862,
he was not in a state of dementia, and was able to comprehend the terms of the receipt ; but the effects of his wounds in
the head were beginning to affect him mentally, and he was
in a condition of nervous apprehension, and naturally desirous
of securing his personal safety by getting out of the country,
and he accepted the money paid by the War Department in
order that he might do so.
While engaged in the military service of the government, as
aforesaid, he received a wound in his head in the fall of 1861,
from which afterwards, in the same year, he became insane,
and did not recover prior to February, 1886.
About September 4, 1886, the claimant presented his claim
to the Treasury Department, without naming the specific
amount claimed, but incidentally claimed $50,000, because he
was told by General Fremont that during the Mexican war
one McGoffin, a secret agent, had been paid that sum. The
Auditor reported to the Second Comptroller as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"Act of July 17, 1861, appropriated $200,000 'for contingencies of the army' (12 Statutes, 263).
"This claim was paid out of above fund.
"Accounting officers have no jurisdiction to open up a
settlement made by War Dep't from secret service fund and
determine unliquidated damages."
The Second Comptroller made the following endorsement
thereon:
"JuNE 29, 1888.
"The within recommendation is approved. De Arnaud
seems to have rendered unmistakably valuable services as a
secret agent, and there appears to have been provision made for
the payment of services of that nature. But this claim must be
rejected pursuant to the recommendation of the 2nd Auditor,
because payment in full seems to have been made and accepted
years ago, and because this office has no means or jurisdiction
to consider so plain a case of unliquidated damages.
"That the officer was not paid commensurately with his services, and deserves recognition at the hands of Congress,
seems to be amply evidenced by President Lincoln's memorandum and by the testimony of Generals Grant and Fremont.
"SIGouRNEY BUTLER.
" 2nd Comptroller."
The claimant was informed of the action of the Comptroller
by the following letter:
" WA&SiNGToN, D. C., July 10, 1888.

"Captain CHARLES DE ARNAUD, Washington, D. C.:
"SiR: I have the honor to inform you that your claim for
compensation for services as a military expert in 1861 has been
disallowed by the Second Comptroller, without prejudice, because payment in full seems to have been made .and accepted
years ago, and because the accounting officers have no means
or jurisdiction to consider so plain a case of unliquidated
WILLL&m A. DAY, Auditor."
damages. . . .

DE ARNAUD v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

On the 20th of October, 1888, the claimant renewed his
application to the Treasury Department, and asked that the
case be referred to the Court of Claims. This communication
was endorsed by the Second Comptroller as follows:
"JEuAY

9th, 1889.

"Respectfully referred to the Second Auditor.
"The application of the claimant, Charles de Arnaud, seems
to have merit. This case is plainly beyond the jurisdiction of
the accounting officers, but it bears upon its face distinct
marks that should give it a fuller consideration than can be
accorded by the accounting officers. Furthermore, there is no
adequate machinery in the accounting officers for properly
sifting the very extraordinary evidence in this case. This can
only be done by the Court of Claims.
"With your reply, which the claimant asks be made special,
stating your views on this case, please forward all the papers
pertinent thereto.
SIGOURNEY BUTLER, Comptroller."
On January 12, 1889, the Second Auditor transmitted all
the papers on file in his office to the Second Comptroller,
stating that his views had been fully expressed in previous
communications hereinbefore set out. The Comptroller made
a recommendation to the Secretary of the Treasury that the
case be transmitted to the Court of Claims, which was
accordingly done by the following letter of transmission:
"TREAsURY DEPARTm.NT,

OFFIcE OF THE SECRETARY,

" WAHi nGToN,

D. C., January 25, 1889.

"To the honorable the Chief Justice and judges of the Court
of Claims:
"Under the provisions of section 1063 of the Revised Statutes of the United States I transmit herewith to your honorable court, upon the recommendation and certificate of the
Second Comptroller, the claim of Charles de Arnaud for services as military expert, now pending in the department and
involving disputed facts and controverted questions of law,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

with all the vouchers, papers, and documents pertaining to
said claim, for trial and adjudication by your honorable court,
as provided by law.
"Respectfully yours,
HuGH S. THomzpsow,
"Acting Secretary."
.Mr.
H. 0. Claughton and Mr. Horatio J. Lauclo for appellant.
A r. Assistant Attorney General Dodge and Mr. Conwar
Robinson for appellees.
MR. JusTic

SHimAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

The court below, passing by other grounds of defence,
dismissed the petition .upon the proposition that it disclosed
a case within the ruling of this court in the case of Totten,
Administrator,v. United States, 92 U. S. 105.
That was a case where one Lloyd asserted that, under a
contract with President Lincoln, he was to proceed South
and ascertain the number of troops stationed at different
points in the insurrectionary States, procure plans of forts,
and gain such other information as might be beneficial to thegovernment of the United States, and report the facts to the
President; for which services he was to be paid $200 a month.
The Court of Claims found that Lloyd had performed the
services mentioned, but the members of that court being
equally divided in opinion as to the authority of the President
to bind the United States by the contract in question, thecourt decided against the claim and dismissed the petition.
On appeal, this court found no difficulty as to the authority
of the President in the matter. As commander-in-chief of
the armies of the United States he was undoubtedly authorized to employ secret agents to enter the rebel lines and obtain
information respecting the strength and movements of theenemy; and it was also said that contracts to compensate
such agents are so far binding upon the government as trender it lawful for the President to direct payment of theamount stipulated out of the contingent fund under his control.

DE ARNAUD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

But the court was of opinion that the service stipulated for
in the contract was a secret service; the information sought
was to be obtained clandestinely, and was to be communicated
privately; the employment and the service were to be equally
concealed. And the court held that a secret service, with
liability to publicity in a suit subsequently brought against
the government, would be impossible; that, as such seivices
are sometimes indispensable to the government, its agents in
those services must look for their compensation to the contingent fund of the department employing them, and to such
allowance from it as those who dispense that fund may award;
that the secrecy which such contracts impose precludes any
action for their enforcement; that the publicity produced by
an action would itself be a breach of a contract of that kind,
and thus defeat a recovery.
The counsel of the appellant do not impugn the doctrine of the Totten case, but they contend that the Court of
Claims erred, in the present case, in treating the contract
and services of Arnaud as being of a character that brings
the case within such .doctrine. It is denied that Arnaud's
functions were those of a spy, but were those of a "military
expert.".
If it were necessary for us to enter into the question thus
suggested, it might be difficult for us to point out any substantial difference in character between the services rendered
,by Lloyd and those rendered by Arnaud; but the record discloses other defences so plainly applicable that we are relieved
from considering whether the new-fangled term "military expert" is only old "spy," "writ large."
On January 6, 1862, after the claimant had performed all
the services described in his petition, he presented a claim to
the War Department, in the following form:
The United States to Charles de Arnaud, Dr.
"JANuARY 6, 1862.
States governthe
United
services
rendered
"For special
ment in traveling through the rebel parts of Kentucky, Tennessee, etc., and procuring information concerning the enemy's
"No. 22.-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

movements, etc., which led to successful results, (as per certificate hereto appended,) $3600."
On this claim the Quartermaster General, on January 9,
1862, endorsed the following:
"In view of the certificate of General Grant of 30th Nov.
and the more general certificate of Major-General Fremont, of
2d January, herewith, covering all Mr. Arnaud's services, the
sum of thirty-six hundred dollars appears to me a not unreasonable compensation. I state this at Mr. Arnaud's earnest
"M. . MEIGs, Q. X. Gen'l."
request.
Thereafter, on January 14, 1862, the Secretary of War made
the following endorsement on said claim:
"I have considered this claim, and cannot bring my mind
to the conclusion that the sum charged is not exorbitant. I
am willing to allow $2000 in full of the claim, and the dis.
clerk, War Depart. is authorized to pay Charles de Arnaud
that sum.
0O FRonN, Sec. W;ar."
"iSoN
The claimant was thereupon paid by said disbursing clerk
of the War Department $2000, and gave the following receipt :
"The United States to Charles de Arnaud, Dr.
"Jx11AuAy 14, 1862.
"For services and expenses as special agent of the gov't,

$2000.
"Received, Washington, January 21,1862, from John Potts,
disbursing clerk for the War Department, two thousand dolCHAs. DE ARNAuD."
dars, in full, for the above account.
In the absence of allegation and evidence that this receipt
was given in ignorance of its purport, or in circumstances con:
stituting duress, it must be regarded as an acquittance in bar
of any further demand. Baker v. Nacktrieb, 19 How. 126;
United States v. Childs, 12 Wall. 232, 243.

DE ARNAUD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

No further or other claim was made by the petitioner until
September 4, 1886- a period of twenty-four years. Even,
therefore, if the claimant was not effectually barred by his
voluntary acquittance, his claim was assuredly barred by th;
statute of limitations, which provides that every claim against
the United States, cognizable by theCourt of Claims, shall be
forever barred unless the petition, setting forth a statement
thereof, is filed in the court, or transmitted to it by the Secretary of the Senate or the Clerk of the House of Representatives, as provided by law, within six years after the claim first
accrues. Rev. Stat. § 1069.
In Finn's case, in many respects resembling the present
one, this court construed and applied that statute in the
following terms:
"In any view this claim belonged to the class which, under
the express words of the act of 1863, Rev. Stat. § 1069, were
'forever barred,' so far, at least, as the claimant had the right
to a judgment in that court against the United States. The
duty of the court, under such circumstances, whether limitation
was pleaded or not, was to dismiss the petition; for the statute,
in our opinion, makes it a condition or qualification of the
right to a judgment against the United States that -except
where the claimant labors under some one of the disabilities
specified in the statute -the claim must be put in suit by the
voluntari action of the claimant, or be presented to the proper
department for settlement, within six years after suit could
be commenced thereon against the government. Under the
appellant's theory of the case the Second Comptroller could
open the case twenty years hence, and upon the claim being
transmitted by the Secretary of the Treasury to the Court of
Claims, that court could give judgment upon it against the
United States. We do not assent to any such interpretation
of the statute defining the powers of that court.
"The general rule that limitation does not operate by its
own force as a bar, but is a defence, and that the party making
such a defence must plead the statute if he wishes the benefit
of its provisions, has no application to suits in the Court of
Claims against the United States. An individual may waive

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

such a defence, either expressly or by failing to plead the
statute, but the government has not expressly or by implication conferred authority upon any of its officers to waive the
linitation imposed by the statute upon suits against the United
States in the Court of Claims." Finn v. United States, 123
U. S. 227, 232, 233.
The claimant cannot avail himself of the saving clause in
the statute suspending its operation in favor of idiots, lunatics,
insane persons, and persons beyond the seas, because such
suspension is only in favor of those laboring under the specified
disabilities at the time the claim accrued; and it is conceded
that plaintiff's mental incapacity did not begin until after his
°
claim bad accrued.
Nor can it be successfully claimed that a disability subsequently arising would suspend the operation of the statute.
See Bauserman v. Blunt, 147 U. S. 647, and cases therein
cited.
In no view that we can take of this case can we find any
just foundation for a claim against the government, and the
judgment of the court below, dismissing the claimant's petition,
is accordingly
fflrmed.

_________

GALVESTON, HARRISBURG AND SAN ANTONIO
IRAILWAY COMPANY v. GONZALES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 158. Argued December 11, 1893. -Decided

January 29, 1894.

A domestic corporation, incorporated under the laws of Texas, a State
divided into more than one Federal district, is, under the State law, and
the Federal laws as to the bringing of suits and actions in Federal courts,
a citizen and inhabitant of that district in the State within which the
general business of the corporation is done, and where It has its headquarters and general offices.
A railway company, incorporated under the laws.of Texas in which there
is more than one Federal district, and having its headquarters and prin-

