OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

avoid any misapprehension, to say that this court must not be
understood as expressing any opinion upon the question suggested by the words of that order, whether a court of the
United States, in the absence of authority conferred by statute,
has the power, after passing sentence in a criminal case, to
suspend its execution indefinitely, and until the court in its
discretion removes such suspension. A decision of that question is not necessary to the disposition of this case upon its
merits.
There are assignments of error other than those above examined, but they are without merit, and, therefore, need not
be noticed in this opinion.
We perceive no error in the record to the prejudice of the
substantial rights of the plaintiff in error.

GARINER v. SECOND NATIONAL BANK OF
PROVIDENCE.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRIOT OF RHODE ISLAND.
No. 43. Argued October 19, 1893. -Decided

January 22, 1894.

In Rhode Island a married woman holds the real and personal estate, owned
by her at the time of her marriage, to her sole and separate use after
marriage, and may permit her husband to manage it without affecting
that use; and if the husband, without her knowledge and consent, invests a part of her property in real estate, taking title in his own name,
and, on this coming to her knowledge after a lapse of time, she requires
it to be conveyed to her, and such conveyance is made after a further
lapse of time, the husband being at the time of the conveyance insolvent,
her equities in the estate may be regarded as superior to those of the
husband's creditors, if it does not further appear that the creditors were
induced to regard him as the owner of it, by reason of representations
to that effect, either by him or by her.

THIS appeal brings up for review a final decree dismissing
a bill filed to obtain an injunction against the appellees, the
Second National Bank, a national banking association having

GARNER v. SECOND NATIONAL BANK.
Statement of the Case.

its place of business in Providence, Rhode Island, Christopher
A. Shippee, and Samuel W. K. Allen, from selling and conveying by deed or otherwise certain real property situated in
that State, and from all attempts by actions at law or otherwise to oust Mary J. Garner, formerly -Mary J. Graeffe, one
of the appellants, from the peaceable and quiet enjoyment and
possession of such property.
The case made by the bill is, substantially, as follows: In
the winter of 1879 and 1880 Albert J. Graeffe, of :New York,
conceived the purpose of forming a joint stock company for
manufacturing textile fabrics of wool and cotton. Having
heard that there was certain mill property in Warwick, Rhode
Island, that could be purchased and utilized at a moderate expense, he proposed to his wife, Mary J. Graeffe, who had considerable estate in her own right, that this mill property,
together with other real estate and water rights adjacent and
appurtenant thereto, known as the American Mills estate, be
purchased, and equipped for manufacturing purposes. The
husband represented to the wife, at the time, that the property could be rented to a company he proposed to form, and
that such an investment of her money would be safe and remunerative. When the investment was proposed, the husband
was the agent and trustee of the wife, having the care, custody, and management of her property. The wife, confiding
in his representations, as well as in his judgment and good intentions, gave her assent to the proposed investment. But she'
expressly directed- and it was so understood between herself
and her husband - that the property when purchased should
be conveyed to her in fee and appear upon record in her individual name. The proposed purchase was made, the amount
due for each parcel being paid out of the money of the wife
which was in the hands of the husband as her agent and trustee, and was her sole and separate property. Contrary to the
understanding with the wife, without her knowledge or consent, and in violation of her express directions, the husband
caused the deeds and instruments of writing to be made out in
his name, as if the fee was absolutely vested in him. In conformity with the original purpose, the property was equipped

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

fpr manufacturing purposes, the money expended to that end
belonging to the wife. The result was that $48,910.94 of her
money, in the hands of the husband, were expended in the
purchase and equipping of this property. When the deeds
were executed the wife believed that the property had been
conveyed to her as her sole and separate estate, in accordance
with her directions to, and understanding with, her husband,
at the time of the proposed investment. She never heard that
this understanding had been violated, until the summer of
1880, when she ascertained from her husband that the property stood in his name. She thereupon requested him to have
it conveyed to her, without further delay. This he promised,
but neglected, at the time, to do.
On the 16th of October, 1880, the premises having been put
in condition for manufacturing purposes, were leased for the
term of four years to the American Mills Company, a INew
York corporation, of which the husband was a stockholder,
and the treasurer. In February, 1881, the company became
financially embarrassed. Its condition having become known
to William H. Garner, a brother of Mrs. Graeffe, he informed
her that, in case of its insolvency, the property, standing in
her husband's name, was liable to be taken for its debts. The
husband was thereupon again requested by the wife to convey
the property to her. In accordance with that request, he conveyed to Garner, by warranty deed, dated March 1, 1881, and
recorded March 3, 1881. The latter, by deed, dated March
1, 1881, and recorded August 13, 1881, conveyed to Mrs.
Graeffe. The consideration recited in each of these deeds
was $48,910.94, the amount of the wife's money that had been
expended by the husband in and about the property.
An execution was issued November 7, 1881, upon a judgment rendered in one of the courts of Rhode Island, in favor
of the Fourth National Bank of New York against Albert J.
Graeffe. This execution was levied November 15,1881, on all
the estate, right, title, interest, and property he had, on March
5, 1881, (the date of the attachment in the case,) in and to the
property described in the deeds to him, Garner, and Mrs.
Graeffe. At a sale at public auction under this execution, the

GARNER v. SECOND NATIONAL BANK
Statement of the Case.

interest of Albert J. Graeffe, so levied upon, was purchased,
February 28, 1882, by Christopher H. Shippee, for $199, and
he received a deed from the sheriff. Mrs. Graeffe, by her
attorney, forbade the sale, and gave notice that the property
was her sole and separate estate. Subsequently, Shippee, by
quit-claim deed, conveyed an undivided half of the estate purchased by him, as above stated, to Samuel W. K. Allen, one
of the appellees.
On the 7th day of January, 1882, at public sale, under an
execution upon a judgment rendered in one of the courts of
Rhode Island, in favor of the Second National Bank of Providence, that bank became the purchaser, for $525, of all the
right, title, and interest of Albert J. Graeffe in the above real
estate and premises, on the 16th of March, 1881, and received
a deed from the sheriff.
The Second lNational Bank, Shippee, and Allen having
threatened to eject Mrs. Graeffe from the possession and
enjoyment of the property, this suit was brought against them
in the name of Graeffe and wife. A part of the relief sought
was a decree cancelling the deeds under which they respectively claimed, and thereby removing the cloud created by
them upon her title.
The answers controvert all the allegations of the bill that
tend to show an equity in favor of Mrs. Graeffe as against the
judgment creditors of her husband. The special grounds of
defence were sustained by the court below, and are sufficiently
indicated in the following extract from the opinion of the Circuit Judge, made part of the record:
"This is a case as disclosed by the evidence where a wife
for years allowed her husband to do as he pleased with her
property, calling him to no account whatever, and where no
action is taken by her until he has become insolvent, and is
about to make an assignment. Property is permitted to stand
in his name for months after his wife has knowledge of the
actual condition of the title, and credit is given the husband
on the faith that he is the real owner. Where a wife thus
permits her money or property to pass into her husband's
hands and possession to manage as he sees fit, without any

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellees.

promise by him to repay it, and persons are, for this reason,
induced to give credit to the husband, it neither beco mies
impressed with a trust in her favor, nor does she become his
creditor in respect of it so as to sustain a conveyance by him
to her upon the eve of his insolvency as against his general
creditors" - citing Humes v. &eruggs,94 U. S. 22; Wortmau
v. Price, 47 Illinois, 22; lockett v. Bailey, 86 Illinois, 74;
Besson v. Eveland, 26 N. J. Eq., (11 C. E. Green,) 468.
Shippee and Allen by cross-bill asked a decree cancelling the
deeds made to Garner and Mrs. Graeffe as clouds upon their
title. By the final decree the original bill was dismissed, and
the relief asked by the cross-bill was given.
It is stated in the brief of appellant's counsel that, pending
the action below, she obtained a divorce a vinculo from her
husband, and by a judgment of the Supreme Court of New
York had resumed her maiden name.
Xr.Alexander Tain for appellant.
.Ir. J Langdon Tard for appellees.
The bill proceeds solely on the theory of a trust in A. J.
Graeffe for his wife's benefit, and the consequent validity of
the conveyance to her. The bill must fail therefore, if no
trust be established.
It is true that in the answer to the cross-bill the complainants in the original bill have shifted their ground and.claim
that Graeffe was a debtor to his wife and that the conveyance
to her was a conveyance in payment of the debt owing from
him to her, and that in thus preferring one creditor over
another Graeffe simply did that which the law permitted him
to do. It is respectfully submitted, however, that in so far as
the affirmative relief sought by the bill is concerned, this allegation, even if true, would be of no avail since nothing of the
kind is alleged in the bill.
But were this otherwise, and were it proved that Mrs.
Graeffe's money had been invested in this estate in such way
as to be within the allegations of this bill, it would furnish no
ground for relief upon it, for:

GAlNTER v. SECOND NATIONAL BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

1. It is well settled that where a wife permits her money or
property to pass into her husband's hands and possession to
manage as he sees fit, without any promise by him to repay
it, it neither becomes impressed with a trust in her favor, nor
does she become his creditor in respect of it so as to justify
and sustain as against his general creditors a conveyance by
him to her upon the eve of his insolvency, in alleged repayment of it. flumes v. Scruggs, 94 U. S. 22; Wortman v.
Price,47 Illinois, 22; ilsonr v. Loomis, 55 Illinois, 352; Patton v. Gates, 61 Illinois, 164; Hockett v. Bailey, 86 Illinois,
74; Afiller v. Payne, 4 Ill. App. 112; Grover &c. Sewing
.Xacine Co. v. Radelif, 63 Maryland, 496; Besson v. Eveland, 26 N. J. Eq., (11 C. E. Green,) 468; Roy v. ZifePier8o,21, 11 Nebraska, 197.
2. It being admitted that this estate in question was purchased with Mrs. Graeffe's full knowledge and consent at the
time, for the purpose of enabling her husband to carry on business upon and with it, and that she learned as early as August,
1881, that the title stood in his name, but allowed it so to
remain, and these debts to be contracted in that business until
he became utterly insolvent, she is estopped from now claiming the estate as against these creditors. Their equities are
superior to hers. Sexton v. IWkeaton, 8 Wheat. 240; Spaulding v. Drew, 55 Vermont, 253; KYnowlton v. Aish, 17 Fed.
Rep. 198.
MR. JnsTImc

HA-RLA", after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
In the court below it was contended in behalf of the plaintiffs that even if there were no agreement that the property in
question should be taken in the name of the wife, there was
nothing illegal or inequitable in preferring her to the amount
of the husband's debt to her. Upon this point the court said:
"The question of the legality of a preference under Rhode
Island laws does not arise in this case; for our decision rests
upon the principle that Mrs. Graeffe, by her own conduct or
acts, by what she permitted to be done, or neglected to do,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

is estopped in a court of equity from claiming this estate as
against the general creditors of her husband."
We are of opinion, after a careful examination of the evidence, that there was nothing in the conduct or acts of Mrs.
Graeffe that precluded the court from granting the relief
sought by her. The case made by the bill was in all material
particulars sustained by the proof. We do not see how this
conclusion can be avoided, except by disregarding altogether
the testimony of Mrs. Graeffe and her husband. And that
we do not feel at liberty to do. In our judgment what they
have said under oath touching the vital issues in the case must
be taken as substantially true.
Mrs. Graeffe inherited from her father and uncle property,
principally real estate, worth from $100,000 to $125,000.
When the estates of the uncle and father were settled up,
the moneys and securities belonging to her came into the
husband's hands under a power of attorney, which authorized
him to receive them for her. There is no claim, as under the
evidence there could not be, that the wife made a gift of this
property to her husband. On the contrary, it remained in
his hands to be controlled for her, although he was allowed a
large discretion in its management. The husband informed
his wife that she could buy the property in question, stating
that it could be purchased cheaply, and that a very fair return
could be derived from it if improved and leased to the Mills
Company. When it was concluded to make the purchase, the
husband told the wife that he "would buy the property for
her," and that "the title was to be vested in her." It is beyond question that she relied upon his assurance that the
property would be secured to her. She certainly understood
at the time, as was quite natural, that it was to be her property. The purchase was made in March, 1880. The husband,
without the knowledge of the wife, and in violation of the
assurances he had given her, took the title in his own name.
The price paid was about $6000. Immediately after the purchase improvements costing about $40,000 were put upon the
premises. The moneys paid for the property, and that expended for its improvement, belonged entirely to Mrs. Graeffe.

GAR NER v. SECOND NATIONAL BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

In August, 1880, the improvements being then in progress, she
discovered, in the course of a conversation with her husband,
that the property stood in his name. She grew excited about
the matter, and insisted upon his making a conveyance to her
at once. This he agreed to do. He promised that he would
attend to it at once, but neglected to perform his promise.
To these facts the husband testified, and we are not at liberty,
upon a close scrutiny of the evidence, to doubt the substantial
accuracy of his statements. Other testimony by him was to
the following effect: "Q. After this interview in August, and
before the conveyance, on the first of March following, had
you any conversation with Mrs. Graeffe in which she was
informed as to where the required title of the property was?
A. What do you mean by that? Q. How did she know that
it had not been conveyed to her? A. She questioned me from
time to time and I was forced to make acknowledgments to
her that I had not as yet attended to the transfer. Q. When
did she first question you, after the interview of August, 1880?
A. In that fall of 1880 and also in the spring. Q. When was
it that you first told her that you had not transferred the title
to her? A. August, 1880. Q. And then you told her you were
going to do it? A. Yes. Q. After that when did you tell
her you had not; or, did you tell her anything about it?
.A.Yes; I told her later, with a promise to do it, and failed
to do it. Q. When next, prior to March first, 1881? A. Some
time in February; I cannot tell the date, but it was at the
moment when I was borrowing money from her to pay some
drafts that were maturing. She then again learned that I
had not made this transfer. I told her then, and she was very
much excited about it."
Mrs. Graeffe testified to the following effect: "Q. At the
time he had these conversations with you, was there anytbing
said as to who was to take the property ? A. I understood
that it was to be my property. Of course, I understood it
was to be my property. Q. Did you learn from time to time
that purchase had been made of the property? A. Yes,
Graeffe told me, and told me the price he could get, but I
don't remember the figures at all. Q. What did you say

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

about purchasing? A. I left it to him. Q. What did you
say to him? A. I expected that he would purchase, and
talked to that effect. Q. When did you first learn that the
title to the property was not in your name? A. About
August of that year, I think. I think it was some time
during the summer and we were talking about the property,
and he gave me to understand it was not in my name. I then
insisted upon it, and he said it should be put in my name.
I know We had quite a little controversy at the time. He
said if that would satisfy me, it should be put in my name.
Q. When next did you have any conversation with Mr.
Graeffe after this interview in August on the subject of the
title to this property? A. I don't think we ever spoke of it
again to speak of the title until he was about to fail. About
that time I spoke to my brother about it, and that was the
first I knew that it had not been put in my name. Q. What
did you say to your brother? A. I asked him to look out
for my interest, and get my money. He asked if it was mine.
I said I thought it was. I then spoke to Graeffe, and he
said it had not been put in my name. My brother said
immediately it must be done. I think it was he who took
charge of the affair. Q. Immediately after this conversation,
the transfer was made? A. Yes, I think it was the next day
as soon as I could possibly make arrangements."
-just
The brother of Mrs. Graeffe here referred to was William
H. Garner, to whom the property was conveyed by Graeffe,
and by whom it was immediately conveyed to the wife. He
testified: "Some few days before, the actual transfer Mrs.
Graeffe, my sister, told me of the fact that this property
belonging to her had been transferred to her husband, and
asked me to insist on its being retransferred to her, and I did
so." Under the deed from her brother, Mrs. Graeffe claims
the property as against those who obtained sheriff's deeds
under attachments issued and levied after the title was vested
in her. These attachments, we have seen, were levied on the
right, title, and interest of the husband in the property.
The proof fails to show that Mrs. Graeffe ever stated to
any one that her husband owned the property, or that any

GARNER v. SECOND NATIONAL BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

one in her presence ever spoke of him as its owner. There
is some conflict in the evidence as to whether the husband
represented to any creditor that he owned the property. He
denies that he ever did, and we do not think the evidence
authorizes us to assume that he made or intended to make
any representations of that character. In any event, it must
be taken that his creditors were not induced to regard him
as the owner of the property by reason of any representations
to that effect by, or with the knowledge of, Mrs. Graeffe.
The only omission charged against her in respect to the
property is that she relied upon her husband's assurance that
it would be put in her name, and did not, immediately upon
learning in August, 1880, that he had deceived her, take steps
to have the property conveyed to her, and thereby place herself before the public as holding the legal title. But is that
omission sufficient to justify a court of equity in denying the
relief asked? Let this question be examined first with reference to the law of the State where these transactions occurred.
It is provided by the statutes of Rhode Island that "the
real estate, chattels real and personal estate, which are the
property of any woman before marriage, or which may become
the property of any woman after marriage, or which may
be acquired by her own industry, shall be absolutely secured
to her sole and separate use; neither the same nor the rents,
profits, or income of the same, nor any part thereof, shall
be liable to be attached or in any way taken for the debts
of the husband, either before or after his death, and upon the
death of the husband, in the lifetime of the wife, shall be and
remain her sole and separate property;" further, "in case
of the sale of any such property, the proceeds of such sale or
any part of the same may be invested in the name of the wife,
in any property, and be secured to and holden by the wife
in the same manner and with the same rights and effect as
the property sold." Pub. Stat. R.I. c. 166, §§ 1 and 2, p. 422.
And, in that State, preferences of banafide debts are permitted,
except when they are assailed under the insolvent laws of that
State, within the time limited by those laws. Pub. Stat. R. I.
c. 237, §§ 14 and 15, p. 660.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In iSteadman v. Wilbur, 7 R. I. 481, 486, which involved
the validity, as against the husband's creditors, of a purchase
alleged to have been made by the wife, with her separate
estate, of property belonging to the husband, the court said:
"If the title conveyed to the wife were a mere equitable one,
resting in executory contract, a court of law could not set it
up against a legal title by execution acquired by purchase
from a creditor's levy and sale; but where, as in this case,
the wife's legal title has been perfected by deed, a court of
law would deal, and ought to deal, with the wife's right to
purchase, for a fair consideration, from her husband, precisely
in the same way that a court of equity would. If this be so
by the general law, how much more in this State, where, by
statute, not only the wife's rights to her property are secured
against her husband and his creditors, but her legal identity
with respect to it, as a person distinct from her husband, is
recognized, and her power to act and contract in the disposal
of it, in the modes permitted by law, is acknowledged by
legislative enactments." Observing that if the wife may contract with her husband at all for the purchase of his property
with hers, it must be, in regard to his creditors, upon the
same principle of good faith, and the giving of equivalent consideration, that any other purchaser might, and that if she
loans him money, it must be with the same right to expect
and receive security or repayment out of his estate, and even
preferences of payment, that any other creditor has, the court
proceeded: "She cannot, indeed, when her husband becomes
insolvent, convert into debts, as against creditors, former
deliveries to him of her money or other property, or permitted
receipts by him of the income or proceeds of sale of her separate estate, which at the time of such delivery or receipt were
intended by her as gifts, to assist him in his business, or to pay
their common expenses of living; and, considering the relation
between them, the law woifld not, merely from such delivery
or receipt, imply a promise on his part to replace or repay, as
in case of persons not thus related; but would require more,
either in express promise or circumstances, to prove that in
these matters they had dealt with each other as debtor and

GARNER v. SECOND NATIONAL BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

creditor. It is not, however, as supposed, a rule of law that
at the time of each delivery or receipt of the separate property
of the wife by the husband, the latter must expressly promise
to repay the former, or to secure her out of his estate, to constitute the relation of debtor and creditor between them in
regard to it. Such a promise, made before such transactions,
and looking forward to and covering them, would, at law as
in common sense, avail as well to prove the character of them,
precisely as it would between other parties who were dealing
with each other on credit and in confidence. Nor is it true
that an express promise to secure or repay out of the estate of
the husband is requisite, in such a case, to prove that her husband received her separate property as a loan, and was therefore entitled, as against his creditors, thus to secure and repay
her. Neither at law nor in equity is inferential proof to be
rejected upon such a subject, more than upon any other, although, as suggested, what are proper inferences may be
modified or altered by the relation between the parties."
In Hodges v. Hodges, 9 R. I. 32, 35, it was decided that
husband and wife, if they choose to do so, could treat each
other as lender and borrower, and that such a contract would
carry with it the usual incident of interest, the same as with
other parties. And it was held, in that case, that the wife
was entitled to be credited in the account between her and her
husband with the proceeds of the sale of her property, although they had been applied to defray family expenses with
her consent and approval. In Elliott v. Benedict, 13 R. I.
463, 466, it was held that, subject to the limitations prescribed
by the insolvent laws of Rhode Island -which limitations do
not affect the present case -a debtor has the right to apply
the whole of his property, subject to attachment, to the payment of any one of his debts in preference to others. The
court said: "At common law it is no fraud for a debtor to
pay in full any debt which he owes, out of any property he
has, whether attachable or not, though the result, and even
the proposed result, of the payment may be that other debts
will have to go unpaid. And the common law in this regard
is not affected by the statute of fraudulent conveyances."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

And in F'anklin Savings Bank v. Greene, 14 R. I. 1, 3, it was
held that, in Rhode Island, a wife might acquire by purchase
or gift from a third person the note of her husband, and enforce payment thereof as such third person might have done,
she suing, if suit became necessary, by next friend in equity, or
through a trustee of her estate appointed by the court on her
petition under the statute. Alluding to the rule at common
law declaring that the transfer of a note of the husband to the
wife extinguished the debt, the court said: "The enactment,
however, of statutes recognizing the separate existence of a
married woman by securing her property to her exclusive use,
as against the husband and his creditors, and by conferring
upon her to a greater or less extent the power of entering
into contracts respecting her property and of disposing of it
independently of her husband, has changed the common law
in this respect, where such statutes prevail. They two are no
longer one, and he that one."
The general principles thus announced by the Supreme
Court of Rhode Island are in accord with the decisions of this
court. In Jlagniac v. Thomson, 7 Pet. 348, 397, this court
said that, among creditors equally meritorious, a debtor may
conscientiously prefer one to another, and it can make no difference that the preferred creditor is his wife. So in Bean, v.
Patterson,122 U. S. 496, 500, which related to a conveyance
of real estate by a husband for the benefit of his wife, and
which conveyance was alleged to have been made in good
faith to secure debts due to her for sums previously realized by
him from sales of her individual property, the court said: "If,
therefore, there had been no other consideration for the deed
than a desire to secure for his wife provision against the
necessities for the future, it could not be sustained. .
That the property in Pennsylvania, deeds of which are mentioned above, was used for his benefit, and to pay and secure
his debts, is sufficiently established. The amount realized
therefrom, as we read the evidence, was greater than the sum
named in the trust deed as due to her. That deed for her
security stands, therefore, upon a full consideration. Had it
been given to a third party for a like debt it would not be

GARNER v. SECOND NATIONAL BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

open to question that it would have been unassailable. The
result is not changed because the wife is the person to whom
the debt is due and not another. While transactions by way
of purchase or security between husband and wife should be
carefully scrutinized, when they are shown to have been upon
full consideration from one to the other, or, when voluntary,
that the husband was at the time free from debt and possessed
of ample means, the same protection should be afforded to
them as to like transactions between third parties." To the
same general effect are numerous cases: Tewell v. -night, 123
U. S. 426, 434, and authorities cited; Stickney v. Stickney, 131
U. S. 227, 238, 240. In the latter case it was said that" whenever a husband acquires possession of the separate property of
his wife, whether with or without her consent, he must be
deemed to hold it in trust for her benefit in the absence of
any direct evidence that she intended to make a gift of it to
him."
Applying the principles recognized by this court, as well as
by the highest court of the State in which the property in
question is situated and where the transactions in question
occurred, we hold that Mrs. Graeffe is entitled to a decree
cancelling the deeds under which the defendants claim the
property described in the deed to her. That her husband was
without any means of his own and had in his possession, substantially, the entire estate of his wife, controlling and managing it for her; that the property in question was purchased
and improved wholly with her money under an explicit assurance by him, before the purchase was made, that it would be
put in her name; that she relied upon his compliance with
that promise; that the husband, on the 1st of March, 1881,
owed her a larger sum than the amounts expended in purchasing and improving the property; that the conveyance to
Garner, in order that he might convey to Mrs. Graeffe, was
made in good faith, for the purpose, and only for the purpose,
of satisfying, to the extent of the value of the property conveyed, the debt due to the wife; and that no one became a
creditor of the husband in consequence of any representation
made by her, or with her knowledge, that he owned the propVOL. cLi-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

erty, are all facts clearly established by the evidence. Why
should not the wife be protected under these circumstances ?
If the husband, in fact, had owned this property, and, in order
to prefer a part of his creditors, had, in good faith, sold and
conveyed it to them, with the intent to give a preference over
other creditors, the right of such grantees to hold it, unless
the case was brought within the insolvent laws of the State,
could not be questioned. No different rule should be enforced
in this case against a wife who has received a conveyance of
property purchased with her money, and which should have
been put in her name when so purchased. By no act or word,
upon her part, was the husband discharged from the performance of his agreement to put the property in her name. The
conveyance to Garner, followed by his conveyance to her, was
executed for the purpose of discharging the husband's obligation to the wife, and was made before any creditor acquired a
lien upon the property by attachment. As between the husband and wife, a court of equity would have compelled him to
secure this property to her. If, before any rights of attaching
creditors intervened, he did voluntarily what the law made it
his duty to do, the transaction is not subject.to impeachment
by his creditors, unless the wife has been guilty of such fraudulent conduct as ought, in conscience, to estop her from claiming the property as against such creditors. If the wife had
herself been guilty of deception, or. if she had contributed
to its success by countenancing it, she might, with justice, be
charged with the consequence of her conduct. Sexton v.
W-eaton, 8 Wheat. 229, 240. But the evidence furnishes no
ground for the imputation of fraud against her. That she
relied upon the husband's lromise to purchase the property
for her and invest her with the title, and that she again relied
upon his assurance, given in August, 1880, that he would have
the property conveyed to her, are circumstances that do not
affect the substance or good faith of the transaction. She
acted with all the diligence that could reasonably have been
expected or required under the circumstances. She supposed
that he kept an accurate account of all transactions involving
her estate as managed by him, and had no purpose to give

GARNER v. SECOND NATIONAL BA.NK.
Opinion of the Court.

him a false credit before the world. As subsequent developments showed, she erred in relying upon the assurances and
promises of her husband as much as she appears to have done.
But, as fraud cannot be imputed to her, a court of equity
ought not, for such an error, to deprive her of that which is
justly hers.
The cases cited in the opinion of the court below rest upon
a state of facts wholly different from those here presented.
For instance in H'umes v. Scruggs, 91 U. S. 22, 27, 29, which
was a suit by an assignee in bankruptcy to set aside 'a conveyance of real estate made by a bankrupt to his wife as being in
fraud of the rights of creditors -the wife alleging in her answer that the land was purchased by the husband with her
money and that she believed for years that the title had been
taken in her name - the court found that the proof showed a
state of case the reverse of that claimed by the wife. It said:
"Neither the husband nor the wife testified that there was
any agreement that the husband should hold these sums as and
for the estate of his wife, or that when the property in question was purchased it was agreed to be held as her estate. On
the contrary, the moneys were held and used by the husband
for nearly fifteen years as his own property, and mingled with
his personal and partnership affairs. . . . But it is probably
untrue, in fact, that this land was bought for her, as she
alleges in the answer, or that she believed at any time that
the title was taken in her name. . . . If the money which a
married woman might have had secured to her own use is
allowed to go into the business of her husband and be mixed
with his property, and is applied to the purchase of real estate
for his advantage, or for the purpose of giving him credit in
business, and is thus used for a series of years, there being no
specific agreement when the same is purchased that such real
estate shall be the property of the wife, the same becomes
the property of the husband for the purpose of paying his
debts. He cannot retain it until bankruptcy occurs and then
convey it to his wife., Such conveyance is in fraud of the just
claims of the creditors of the husband." The observations of
the court in Humes v. Scruggs have no application to the facts

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

that we consider to be established by the proofs in the present
case. The difference of opinion between this court and the
Circuit Court arises chiefly from the conclusions of fact to be
drawn from the testimony.
In our judgment, the court should have dismissed the crossbill and given to Mrs Graeffe the relief asked by the bill.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded for further

proceedings, in conformity with this oyinion.
MR. JUSTIoE BRoWN was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision of the case.

LINCOLN 'v. POWER.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 505. Submitted November 28, 1893.-

Decided January 29, 1894.

This court cannot take notice of an assignment of error that the damages
found by the jury were excessive and given under the influence of passion
and prejudice.
An error in that respect is to be redressed by a motion for a new trial.
The evidence in this case was conflicting and would not have warranted the
court in directing a verdict for the defendant.
It is not reversible error to permit a plaintiff, suing a municipality to recover
for injuries received by reason of defects in its streets, to prove a bill or
statement of the claim which had been served on the city council before
commencement of the action.
The plaintiff in such an action may put in evidence sections of the municipal
code.
The question whether the plaintiff was walking upon one part of the sidewalk rather than another was properly left to the jury.
In such an action it would be error to instruct the jury that "where a dangerous hole is left in a sidewalk in a public street of a city, over which
there is a large amount of travel, the author will be liable for an injury
resulting from the act, although other causes subsequently arising may
contribute to the injury."
An assignment of error cannot be sustained because the judge expresses
himself as impressed in favor of the one party or the other, if the law is

