OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

wise than it was. All the evidence is in the record, and we
have carefully examined it, and, as we are of opinion that the
rulings complained of, if erroneous, did not constitute reversible error, we need not pass upon their correctness, though
we are not to be understood as intimating that the objections
should in any instance have been sustained.

IMPERIAL FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY v. COOS
COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT O

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW HA2AnSHIRE.
No. 204. Submitted January 17, 1894.-Decided January 29, 1894.

A policy of fire insurance containing a provision that it should become void
if without notice to the company and its permission endorsed thereon
"mechanics are employed in building, altering, or repairing" the insured
premises, becomes void by the employment of mechanics in so building,
altering, or repairing; and the insurer is not responsible to the assured
for damage and injury to the assured premises thereafter by fire, although
not happening in consequence of the alterations and repairs.

Tais was an action of assumpsit upon a five thousand dollar
policy of insurance issued by the plaintiff in error November
21, 1882, insuring the court-house of the defendant in error at
Lancaster, in the county of Coos, New Hampshire, against
loss by fire, for a period of five years, from the date of the
policy.
The premises insured were a two-story building, having on
the first floor the offices of register of deeds and probate, clerk
of court, and county commissioners. The court-room was on
the second floor. At the date of the policy there were two
brick vaults, one, 8 by 13 feet, for the use of the probate office,
and the other, 16 by 13 feet, for the use of the offices of the
register of deeds and clerk of court, there being a partition in
the centre separating the part used by the register from that
used by the clerk.

IMPERIAL FIRE INS. CO. v. COOS COUNTY.

453

Statement of the Case.

The fire which destroyed the insured premises occurred
about two o'clock in the morning of November 4, 1886.
The policy in suit contains the following: "1Paymentin case
of loss is upon the following terms and conditions."
Among the terms and conditions are the following:
"This policy shall be void and of no effect if, without notice
to this company and permission therefor in writing endorsed
hereon, . . . the premises shall be used or occupied so as
to increase the risk . . . or the risk be increased
by any means within the knowledge or control of the assured,
. . . or if mechanics are employed in building, altering, or
repairing premises named herein, except in dwelling-houses,
where not exceeding five days in one year are allowed for
repairs."
In August, 1886, the plaintiff, without the written consent
of the defendant and without its knowledge, employed wood
carpenters and brick masons, and reconstructed and enlarged
the vaults, making that of the office of the register of probate
12 by 13 feet instead of 8 by 13 feet, as it was at the date of
the policy, and making those of the offices of the register of
deeds and clerk of court 22 by 13 instead of 16 by 13 feet, as
at the date of the policy. The foundations were also reconstructed and enlarged to correspond with the enlargement of
the vaults. The reconstruction and enlargement of the vaults
necessitated the cutting of the floors and ceilings of the
respective offices in which they were, so as to extend the
vaults.
The time during which these mechanics were employed in
the reconstruction and enlargement of the foundations and
vaults was about five or six weeks. Some painting was also
done incident to the above changes, but the extent did not
distinctly appear.
In addition to the foregoing the plaintiff below also changed
the method of heating the offices of the register of probate
and clerk of court, placing a hot-water coil in the furnace in
the basement, from which ran pipes through the floors and
were attached to radiators in those offices. This work was
commenced November 2, and completed about midnight,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

November 3, 1886. No permission to make this change in
the method of heating was either obtained or requested, and
the defendant had no knowledge of its being done. In the
evening of November 3 a fire was built in the furnace to test
the heating apparatus, and heat the radiators so they might
be bronzed, and the fire was left burning at about midnight,
when the mechanics and some of the county officers left the
building.
From the time work began upon the vaults, early in August,
until the fire, the papers and records of the offices of the clerk
of court and registers of probate and deeds were in the courtroom or in the respective offices, unprotected by any safes or
vaults.
The expense of the labor and raw material of the foregoing
alterations was about $3000.
The defendant contended that the foregoing alterations,
rebuilding, and repairs were extraordinary and not ordinary
repairs, such as were necessary in the use of the premises
insured, and such as might have been contemplated by the
parties when the contract was made, and the following request
for a ruling was made to the presiding judge, viz.:
"The defendants request the court to rule that the building,
altering, and repairing of the premises to the extent of tearing
down several partitions, cutting away a portion of the floors
in several rooms, tearing down the vault and enlarging and
rebuilding it, and the changing the method of heating a portion of its building by putting in piping and radiators for hot
w1ter or steam1-all at the expense of several thousand dola
lars, for the labor of mechanics, for raw materials -was
building, altering, or repairing of the premises which increased
the risk, and the policy thereby became void."
The court declined to rule as requested, and the defendant
excepted.
Upon the conclusion of the testimony, which proved the
foregoing facts, the defendant made the following motion that
a verdict be directed, viz.:
"The defendants move that a verdict be directed for them
on the ground that there is no evidence competent to be sub-

IMPERIAL FIRE INS. CO. v. COOS COUNTY.

455

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

mitted to the jury that the building, altering, and repairing
shown by the evidence was not such building, altering, and
repairing as avoided the policy."
The motion was denied by the court, and the defendant
excepted.
The defendant requested the court to instruct the jury "That if the work done by the mechanics, as disclosed by
the evidence, increased the hazard while such work was being
done, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover."
The court refused to give this instruction, and the defendant excepted.
The court in the course of its charge to the jury instructed
them as follows:
"The identical question before you is whether at the time
the fire took place what the county of Coos had done in the
way of alterations and repairs increased the risk at that time
-that

is, at the time of the fire -that

is, on the night of

November 4-that the county of Coos had done in the way
of repairs, changing the vaults, putting in additional heating
apparatus -did those things increase the risk at that particular time? Not whether mechanics two days previously or
three days previously or a week previously had worked in that
building. What was the condition of the building on the
night of the fire? Had what the county of Coos did in making those repairs increased the risk or had it not? Were the
repairs ordinary or necessary and accompanied by no increase
of risk, or were they of such an extraordinary and material
character upon that particular night- that is, the condition
in which the building was upon that particular night-that
the risk was increased, and therefore the assured, the county,
violated this condition in the policy, and consequently the
defendant company should not be held liable ?"
To this instruction the defendant excepted. There was
a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff below for the sum of
$5505, and this writ of error was prosecuted to reverse that
judgment.
0_M9. far T Bingham for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Xb. S. R. Bond and .M. 17etcher -Ladd for defendant in
error.
The finding of the jury establishes the fact that the risk
was not increased by the alterations and repairs beyond what
it was when the policy was first executed. This was a question of fact, which the court below properly left to the jury
to determine. Rice v. Tower, 1 Gray, 426; Cornish v. Farm
Buildings Fire Ins. Co., 74 N. Y. 295. The question upon
which the case turns is therefore this: did the repairs and
alterations made by the defendant in error upon its courthouse, though not resulting in an increase of risk, though
completed at the time when the fire occurred, and though not
in any way the cause of the fire, nevertheless have the effect
of avoiding the policy, under the condition therein contained
declaring that "this policy shall be void and of no effect,
if without notice to the company and permission therefor
in writing endorsed hereon . . . mechanics are employed in building, altering, or repairing the premises named
herein?"
The court will not stick in the letter of this condition, if by
so doing the unmistakable general ppirpose of the contract is
defeated. This principle of construction, which is of general
application, has peculiar force as applied to contracts of insurance, which are construed liberally in favor of the insured.
Crovsillat v. Ball, 3 Yeates, 375; Insurance Companies v.
Wright, 1 Wall. 456, 468; irational Bank v. l1s. Co., 95
U. S. 673, 679; Harper v. Albany _fut. Ins. Co., 17 N. Y.
191, 198. The loss not having been occasioned by the making
of the alterations and repairs, and the risk not having been
permanently increased by them, it would be a purely technical construction of the condition in question which should
give it the effect of depriving the defendant in error of the
indemnity for which it contracted, and for which it has paid
the consideration required from it by the company.
James v. Zycoming Ins. Co., 4 Cliff. 272, 276, 278, 280, 283,
284, is a direct adjudication upon facts similar in every respect
to those in the case at bar. In that case a new boiler had

IMPERIAL FIRE INS. CO. v. COOS COUNTY.

457

Argument for Defendant in Error.

been put into a steam mill, and other extensive changes and
repairs had been made on the premises, and in an action on
the policy the company defended under a condition identical
with that upon which the plaintiff in error relies here. In an
exhaustive opinion by Clifford, J., the conclusion is reached
that the condition in question, fairly construed, did not prohibit the making of reasonable and necessary changes and
repairs, and that what had been done upon the insured premises
came within that category. In the course of the opinion he
says: "Attempt is made in argument to maintain that the
structure erected to cover the projecting end of the new boiler,
and the fireplace, and the man who feeds the boiler, is a greater
change in the premises than the law of insurance will allow;
but the agreed statement affords a complete and decisive
answer to that suggestion, as it shows that the change made
did not increase the risk, and that the structure erected was
reasonable, necessary, and proper for the purpose.
Whether regarded as a condition subsequent, or as a mere
promissory warranty, the condition in question, it is clear, is
not one where a literal compliance with its terms is required.
Such a construction would be absurd, as it would render the
policy void if the insured employed a mechanic to take out a
broken slate and put in a new one, or to replace a broken pane
of glass, or to stop a leak in a chandelier, or other gas fixture,
or in a cistern, or to mend a defective chimney, stove-pipe or
furnace. . . . Such a condition, however, must receive a
reasonable construction in view of the agreed facts in the case,
and that construction must be one not repugnant to the nature
and purpose of the contract, nor one inconsistent with the
due and customary use and enjoyment of the property.
Insurable property is intended for use, and it is not the intent
of a policy of insurance to impair the right of use nor to deprive
the owner of the customary enjoyment of the property.
But the effect of that concession [that small repairs may be
made] is to admit that the condition in question is subject to
a reasonable construction not repugnant to the nature and
purpose of the contract, nor inconsistent with the due and
customary use and enjoyment of the property." Other author-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

ities to the same general effect are: -F'anklin-Fi'eIns. Co. v.
Chicago Ice Co., 36 Maryland, 102; Kern v. South St. 1ouis
lut. Ins. Co., 40 Missouri, 19.
The case of London & Liverpool Firve Insurance Co. v.
Crun, 91 Tennessee, 376, presents an instance where an
insurance company sought to escape liability for a loss, under
a condition which, if construed literally, had taken effect to
avoid the policy. The condition was as follows: "If the
building, or any part thereof, fall, except as the result of fire,
all insurance by such policy on such building or its contents,
shall immediately cease." The building had been struck by a
cyclone, and the roof of the two front upper rooms and a part
of the walls blown away. The court below charged the jury
as follows: "The exclusion clause in question is not to be
literally understood, so as to avoid the policy if an atom, or
some minute portion of the material in the insured building,
should fall. It means some functional portion of the structure,
the falling of which would destroy its distinctive character as
such. So that, if the proof in this case shows that the roof
was blown from a part of one of the buildings mentioned in
the policy sued on, and one of the upper rooms was uncovered
and one of the walls thereof partially blown away, but leaving
more than three-fourths of the building intact, and suitable
for a dwelling-house, and that in this condition it was burned,
the clause in the policy as to the falling of the building, or any
part thereof, would not exempt defendant from liability, if
otherwise liable, as before explained, unless you should believe
from the proof that the falling was the direct cause of the fire.
If the proof shows that the fire was scattered on the floor in
one of the rooms of one of the insured houses by the wind;
that some of it ignited the carpet and some of the furniture in
the room, and a strong wind blew the roof and a portion of
the building upon it, and after smoldering a time it broke out
and consumed the building; that the wind, and not the falling
building, or a part thereof, caused the fire; that the fire and
not the falling of the building, was the proximate and direct
cause of the loss, you should find for the plaintiff, if defendant
is otherwise liable, as before explained."

IMPERIAL FIRE INS. CO. v. COOS COUNTY.

459

Argument for Defendant in Error.

In the court above on error these instructions were held
correct, and Snodgrass, J., speaking for the whole court said:
"The circuit judge drew the correct distinction. The falling
of 'any part' of a building in such a contract manifestly could
not apply to any minute or fragmentary portion, as it might
literally import. If so, the clause would be void as unreasonable, and defeating, without merit, the contract for indemnity.
It cannot have such a technical or literal construction. Literalism being disregarded, the clause must have a fair and reasonable interpretation and construction, and that which is most
favorable to indemnity - the object of the contract. Not
having a literal meaning, and not definitely designating what
material part of the building must fall before the fire to exempt
the insurer from liability, it must, like all ambiguous clauses, be
construed most favorably to indemnity, and against the insurer.
It should therefore not have been construed as meaning any
fragment or portion of a part of the building, but an integral
part of the entire building, as was done by the circuit judge."
The very recent case of First Congregational Church v.
Holyoke .Fire Isuwrance Co., 158 Mass., 475, is another instance in which the court read into a condition very similar
to that here in question a qualification imperatively demanded
by common sense and common justice, but unwarranted by
any express language contained in the policy. There the
policy sued on provided that "this policy shall be void if
without the assent in writing or in print of the company . . . the situation or circumstances affecting the risk
shall, by or with the knowledge, advice, agency, or consent of
the insured, be so altered as to cause an increase of such risk;
or if camphene, benzine, naphtha, or other chemical oils or
burning fluids shall be kept or used by the insured on the
premises insured, except that what is known as refined petroleum, kerosene, or coal oil may be used for lighting," etc.
The property insured was a church edifice built of wood. A
painter used a naphtha torch for several weeks to burn off the
old paint on the building preparatory to repainting it, and
finally the building caught fire where the torch had just been
used, and was consumed. The report does not show precisely

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

how the questions discussed in the opinion were raised, but
Knowlton, J., with the concurrence of the rest of the court,
says on the point to which we here cite the case: "On the
undisputed facts as stated in the bill of exceptions, the only
ground on which the plaintiff could fairly ask to present a
question to the jury is upon its contention that the use of
naphtha and the change in conditions affecting the risk occurred
through making ordinary repairs in a reasonable and proper
way, and that in the provisions quoted from the policies there
is an implied exception of what is done in making ordinary
repairs. It is generally held that such provisions are not intended to prevent the making of necessary repairs, and the
use of such means as are reasonably required for that purpose.
O'Niel v. BJujalo Insurance Co., 3 Oomst. (3 N. Y.) 122;
-Dobson v. Sotheby, Mood. & Malk. 90; Franklin Insurance
Co. v. Chicago Ice Co., 36 Maryland, 102; Billings v. Tolland
County Insurance Co., 20 Connecticut, 139; Miears v. H1umboldt Insurance Co., 92 Penn. St. 15; Williams v. .New England Ins. Co., 31 Maine, 219; Putnam v. Commonwealth
Insurance Co., 18 Blatchford, 368. Both parties to a contract
for insurance must be presumed to expect that the property
will be preserved and kept in a proper condition by making
repairs upon it. 'Policies on buildings are often issued for a
term of five years or more. The making of ordinary repairs
in a reasonable way may sometimes increase the risk more or
less while the work is going on, or involve the use of an
article whose use in a business carried on in the building is.
prohibited by the policy. In the absence of an express stipulation to that effect, a contract of insurance should not be held
to forbid the making of ordinary repairs in a reasonably safe
way, and provisions like these we are considering should not
be deemed to apply to an increase of risk or to a use of an
article necessary for the preservation of the property. We are
therefore of opinion, that if the use of naphtha at the time and
in the manner in which it was used was reasonable and proper
in the repair of the building, having reference to the danger of
fire as well as to other considerations, it would not render the
policies void."

IMPERIAL FIRE INS. 00. v. COOS COUNTY.

461

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSoN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
In the view we take of the case it will be necessary to notice
only the exceptions based upon the refusal of the court to
instruct the jury, as requested by the defendant, "that if the
work done by the mechanics, as disclosed by the evidence,
increased the hazard while such work was being done, then
the plaintiff is not entitled to recover;" and the exception to
the instruction given, to the effect that the question was
whether the work and repairs done upon the building increased
the risk at the time of the fire.
It is contended on behalf of the plaintiff in error that these
exceptions present the following legal propositions:
(1) The court should have instructed the jury that if the
work done by the mechanics increased the hazard, while the
work was in progress, then the assured would not be entitled
to recover, because when the hazard was increased and the
risk changed, by the acts of the assured, and without the
knowledge or consent of the insurer, in that event the contract
came to an end by virtue of its own expressed, unambiguous
terms.
(2) The assured, the county of Coos, having made extensive
repairs upon the insured premises, and having neither notified
the plaintiff in error, the insurer thereof, nor obtained its consent in writing therefor, the conditions of the policy were
violated, and, by its terms, the contract terminated.
(3) It was error to instruct the jury that it was immaterial
what had occurred to increase the hazard during the repairs,
unless such increased hazard existed at the time of the fire.
On behalf of the defendant in error it is claimed that under
a proper construction of the policy, the question on which the
case turns is, did the repairs and alterations, made by the defendant in error upon its court-house, and completed when the
fire occurred, result in an increase of risk at that time, or were
they in any way the cause of the fire? The proposition is
that unless such repairs and alterations had the effect of either
causing the fire, or of increasing the risk at the time it occurred,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

then there was no breach of the condition, contained in the
contract, that "this policy shall be void and of no effect, if,
without notice to the company, and permission therefor endorsed hereon, . . . mechanics are employed in building,
altering, or repairing the premises named herein."
Contracts of insurance are contracts of indemnity upon the
terms and conditions specified in the policy or policies, embodying the agreement of. the parties. For a comparatively small
consideration the insurer undertakes to guaranty the insured
against loss or damage, upon the terms and conditions agreed
upon, and upon no other, and when called upon to pay, in
case of loss, the insurer, therefore, may justly insist upon the
fulfilment of these terms. If the insured cannot bring himself within the conditions of the policy, he is not entitled to
recover for the loss. The terms of the policy constitute the
measure of the insurer's liability, and in order to recover, the
assured must show himself within those terms; and if it appears that the contract has been terminated by the violation
on the part of the assured, of its conditions, then there can be
no right of recovery. The compliance of the assured with the
terms of the contract is a condition precedent to the right of
recovery. If the assured has violated, or failed to perform the
conditions of the contract, and such. violation or want of performance has not been waived by the insurer, then the assured
cannot recover. It is immaterial to consider the reasons for
the conditions or provisions on which the contract is made to
terminate, or any other provision of the policy which has been
accepted and agreed upon. It is enough that the parties have
made certain terms, conditions on which their contract shall
continue or terminate. The courts may not make a contract
for the parties. Their function and duty consist simply in
enforcing and carrying out the one actually made.
It is settled, as laid down by this court in Thompsom v.
Phenix ns. Co., 136 U. S. 287, that, when an insurance contract is so drawn as to be ambiguous, or to require interpretation, or to be fairly susceptible of two different constructions,
so that reasonably intelligent men on reading the contract
would honestly differ as to the meaning thereof, that con-

IMPERIAL FIRE INS. CO. v. COOS COUNTY.

463

Opinion of the Court.

struction will be adopted which is most favorable to the
insured.
But the rule is equally well settled that contracts of insurance, like other contracts, are to be construed according to the
sense and meaning of the terms which the parties have used,
and if they are clear and unambiguous, their terms are to be
taken and understood in their plain, ordinary, and popular
sense.
It is entirely competent for the parties to stipulate, as they
did in this case, "that this policy should be void and of no
effect, if, without notice to the company, and permission
therefor endorsed hereon,

.

.

the premises shall be used

or occupied so as to increase the risk, or cease to be used or
occupied for the purposes stated herein;

.

.

.

or the risk

be increased by any means within the knowledge or control of
the assured;

.

.

or, if mechanics are employed in build-

ing, altering, or repairing premises named herein, except in
dwelling-houses, where not exceeding five days in one year
are allowed for repairs."
These provisions are not unreasonable. The insurer may
have been willing to carry the risk at the rate charged and
paid, so long as the premises continued in the condition in
which they were at the date of the contract; but the company may have been unwilling to continue the contract under
other and different conditions, and so it had a right to make
the above stipulations and conditions on which the policy or
the contract should terminate. These terms and conditions
of the policy present no ambiguity whatever. The several
conditions are separate and distinct, and wholly independent
of each other. The first three of the above conditions depend
upon an actual increase of risk by some act or conduct on the
part of the insured; but the last condition is disconnected
entirely from the former, whether the risk be increased or
not. This last condition may properly be construed as if it
stood alone, and a material alteration and repair of the building beyond what was incidental to the ordinary repairing
necessary for its preservation, without the consent of the
insurer, would be a violation of the condition of the policy,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

even though the risk might not have been, in fact, increased
thereby. The condition that the policy should be void and
of no effect if "mechanics are employed in building, altering,
or repairing the premises named herein," without notice to or
permission of the insurance company, being a separate and
valid stipulation of the parties, its violation by the assured
terminated the contract of the insurer, and it could not be
thereafter made liable on the contract, without having waived
that condition, merely because in the opinion of the court and
the jury the alterations and repairs of the building did not, in
fact, increase the risk. The specific thing described in the
last condition as avoiding the policy, if done without consent,
was one which the insurer had a right, in its own judgment,
to make a material element of the contract, and, being assented
to by the assured, it did not rest in the opinion of other parties, court or jury, to say that it was immaterial, unless it
actually increased the risk.
If the last stipulation had been so framed as to require the
element of an increased risk to be incorporated into the condition that if "mechanics are employed in building, altering, or
repairing the premises named herein," without notice to the
company and its permission in writing endorsed on the policy,
then there would have been presented a question of fact for
the jury whether such alterations and repairs constituted an
increase of the risk. But this condition, being wholly independent of any increase of risk, its violation without the consent of the insurer, or waiver of the breach, annulled the
policy.
This being the proper construction, as we think, of the
terips and conditions of the policy, and it being shown that
the insured in August, 1886, without the knowledge or written consent of the insurer, employed carpenters and brick
masons, and reconstructed and enlarged the vaults and offices
of the court-house- reconstructing -the foundations corresponding to the enlargement of the vaults, which necessitated
the cutting of the floors and ceilings of the different officesand that this work occupied five or six weeks; and in connection therewith necessitated painting, and a new method of

IMPERIAL FIRE INS. CO. v. COOS COUNTY.

465

Opinion of the Court.

heating the offices of the register of probate and the clerk of
the court, (this change in the method of heating being completed about midnight of November 3, 1886, and the fire
which destroyed the building occurring some two hours thereafter,) clearly entitled the plaintiff in error to the instruction
requested, that "if the work done by the mechanics, as disclosed by the evidence, increased the hazard while such work
was being done, then the plaintiff is not entitled to recover."
This instruction, which the court declined to give, presented
the question of fact whether there had been any violation of
the condition that the premises should not be so used or ocoupied as to increase the risk, or that the risk should not be
increased by any means within the knowledge or control of
the assured.
The court not only refused this instruction, but in its charge
to the jury so construed the condition that if "mechanics
are employed in building, altering, or repairing the premises
named herein," without the consent of the insurer, as to make
it mean that such alterations and repairs must be shown to
have increased the risk in point of fact, and that such increase
of risk must have existed at the time of the fire.
If the mechanics were employed in altering and repairing
the building in a manner beyond what was required for its
ordinary repair and preservation, and in such a material way
as constituted a breach of the condition of the contract, it is
difficult to understand upon what principle the charge of the
court can be sustained. The condition which was violated did
not, in any way, depend upon the fact that it increased the
risk, but by the express terms of the contract was made to
avoid the policy if the condition was not observed. The
instruction of the court gave no validity or effect to the condition and its breach, but mad it depend upon the question
whether the acts done in violation of it, in fact, increased the
risk, and whether such increased risk was operative at the
date of the fire.
The court below proceeded upon the theory that the fire
having occurred after the employment of the mechanics had
ceased, such employment, and the making of the alterations
VOL. CLI-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.

Opinion of the Court.

and repairs described, did not constitute a breach at the time
of the fire; that the increased risk, which was necessary to
render the policy void, must be found to have existed at the
time of the fire, and not at any preceding date.
But aside from the error of the court in refusing to give the
specific charges requested, and in the general charge, as given,
it appears, by the bill of exceptions, that upon the conclusionof the testimony establishing the foregoing facts, and about
which there is no controversy, the defendant made the following motion: "That a verdict be directed for it on the ground
that there is no evidence competent to be submitted to the
jury that the building, altering, and repairing shown by the
evidence was not such altering and repairing as avoided
the policy." This motion was denied by the court, and the
defendant excepted. Under the construction we have placed
upon the last condition, above quoted, we are of opinion that
the defendant was entitled, on the conceded facts, to have a
verdict directed in its favor on the ground that the employment of mechanics to make such material alterations and
repairs as were made, without the knowledge or consent of
the plaintiff in error, was in and of itself such a violation of
the terms of the policy as rendered it void, without reference to the question whether such alterations and repairs had
increased the risk or not. The principles of law applicable
to this question are stated and illustrated in the following
authorities:
In Ferree v. Oxford Fire and Life I14s. Co., 67 Penn. St.
373, the policy of insurance contained the provision that it
should not "be assignable without the consent of the company
expressed thereon. In case of assignment without such consent, whether of the whole policy or of any interest in it, the
liability of the company in virtue of said policy shall thenceforth cease." The assured assigned the policy, and the court
held that the condition was a perfectly legal one, and that the
company was not liable, although the plaintiff had redeemed
the policy previously assigned, and was the holder thereof at
the time of the suit.
In Fabyan v. Union .Mutual Fire Ins. Go., 33 N. H. 203,

IMPERIAL FIRE INS. CO. v. COOS COUNTY.

461

Opinion of the Court.

207, the policy provided that procuring other insurance without
the consent of the company would avoid the policy.

Other

insurance was procured, and the court held "that by the terms
of the policy, this discharged the defendant from liabilitytheir promise contained in the policy to pay the plaintiff in
case of loss, being upon the condition that in case of such
double insurance their assent thereto should be endorsed on
the policy."
In ioore v. Pheenix Ins. Co., 62 N. H. 240, the policy
contained, among other provisions, the following conditions:
"If the above-mentioned premises shall bdcome vacant and
unoccupied for a period of more than ten days . . . withthen,
out the assent of the company endorsed hereon, . . .
and in every such case, this policy shall be void." At the
time the premises were destroyed they were occupied, but for
a period of at least three months prior to that time they were
unoccupied, although without the knowledge of either the
assured or the insurer. The court held that the conditions of
the policy had been broken by the unoccupancy of the premises, and that "the contract being once terminated could not
be revived without the consent of both of the contracting
parties. It is immaterial, then, whether the loss of the buildings is due to unoccupancy or to some other cause."
In other New Hampshire decisions it is held that a departure
from the conditions, without the'written consent of the insurer,
avoided the policy and terminated the contract. Shepherd v.
Union -Mutual Ins. Co., 38 N. H. 232; Gee v. Cheshire X1. F.
.Ins. Co., 56 N. H. 401;
ins. Co., 55 N. R. 65; &eeper v. .
Hill v. Ins. Co., 58 N. H. 82; Baldwin v. Pheenix ns. Co., 60
N. 1. 164; Crafts v. Union .Mutual Ins. Co., 36 N. H. 44;
Dube v. Mascoma; MAutual Ins. Co., 64 N. H. 527.
It is competent for the parties to agree that this or that
alteration or change shall work a forfeiture, in which case the
only inquiry will be whether the one in question comes within
the category of changes which by agreement shall work a
forfeiture. May on Insurance, (1st ed.,) see. 223, citing Lee v.
Howard Fire Ins. Co., 3 Gray, 583; Glenn v. Lewis, 8 Exch.
607.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In Frost's lDetroit Lumber WTorks v. Millers' Jut.Ins. Co.,
37 Minnesota, 300, 302, the court was called upon to construe
a contract of insurance which contained the following provision: "Such ordinary repairs as may be necessary to keep the
premises in good condition are permitted by this policy; but
if the buildings hereby insured be altered, added to, or enlarged, due notice must be given and consent endorsed hereon."
The building insured was subsequently materially enlarged,
and the court held, inasmuch as notice was not given to the
company, that under the construction given to the clause the
policy was avoided, although the risk was not increased by
the alterations which had been made to the building.
In .ace v. Rochester Ins. Co., 106 Nq. Y. 560, 564, the policy contained a condition similar to the one in the policy in
this case, providing that the working of mechanics in building, altering, or repairing any building covered by the policy,
without the written consent of the company endorsed thereon,
would cause a forfeiture of all claim under the policy. Mechanics were at work making changes in the building at the
time of the fire, without the consent of the insurer, and the
court held that this effected an avoidance of the policy.
The court said that "certain conditions are very generally regarded by underwriters as largely increasing the hazards of
insurance, and they, unless corresponding premiums are paid
for extra risks, are usually intended to be excluded from the
obligation of the policy. Such are the conditions in reference
to unoccupied houses, changes in the occupation from one kind
of business to another more hazardous, the use of inflammable
substances in buildings, and their occupation by carpenters,
roofers, etc., for the purpose of making changes and alterations. These conditions, when plainly expressed in a policy,
are binding upon the parties and should be enforced by the
courts, if the evidence brings the case clearly within their
meaning and intent. It tends to bring the law itself into disrepute, when, by astute and subtle distinctions, a plain case is
attempted to be taken without the operation of a clear, reasonable, and material obligation of the contract."
The principle announced in the last-cited case was also

IMPERIAL FIRE INS. CO. v. COOS COUNTY.

469

Opinion of the Court.

enunciated in Zyman v. State -Mut.Ins. Co., 14 Allen, (Mass.,)
329.
In Hyte v. Commeroial Union Asmrance Co., 149 Mass.
116, 122, a policy was sued upon containing the provision that
it should become void if the circumstances affecting the risk
should be altered so as to increase the risk; or, if articles subject to legal restriction shall be kept in quantities or manner
different from those allowed or prescribed by law. When the
premises were insured they were used as a common victualling
place, and subsequently intoxicating liquors were sold illegally.
The judge before whom the case was tried instructed the jury
in substance that if that illegal use was temporary, not contemplated at the time when the policy was taken by the plaintiff, and ceased before the fire, then the fact that he had made
an illegal use of the premises during the time covered by the
policy would not deprive the plaintiff of the right to maintain
the action; and that his right under the policy, if suspended
while the illegal use of the building continued, would revive
when he ceased to use it illegally. The Supreme Tudicial
Court of Massachusetts, in considering this instruction, said:
"The question is thus presented whether the provision of the
policy that it shall be void in case of an increase of risk means
that it shall be void only during the time while the increase of
risk may last, and may revive again upon the termination of
the increase of risk." "The contract of insurance depends
essentially upon an adjustment of the premium to the risk assumed. If the assured, by his voluntary act, increases the risk,
and the fact is not known, the result is that he gets an insurance for which he has not paid." And again: "An increase
of risk which is substantial, and which is continued for a considerable period of time, is a direct and certain injury to the
insurer, and changes the basis upon which the contract of insurance rests; and since there is a provision that in case of an
increase of risk which is consented to, or known by the assured
and not disclosed, and the assent of the insurer obtained, the
policy shall be void, we do not fdel at liberty to qualify the
meaning of these words by holding that the policy is only
suspended during the continuance of such increase of risk."

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The decision of the Supreme Court reversed the lower court,
which had proceeded exactly upon the same theory adopted
by the Circuit Court in the case under consideration. The
principles laid down in this and the other cases cited clearly
establish that the general instruction to the jury complained
of in the present case was erroneous.
Judgment reversed and case remanded with instructions to
set aside the verdict and to order a new trial.
TR. JUSTICE BREWER dissented.

COLUMBUS

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
WRIGHT.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

No. 753. Argued January 15, 1894.- Decided January29,1894.
The provision in the law of October 16, 1889, of the State of Georgia, (Laws
of Georgia, 1889, No. 399, p. 29,) distributing for taxation purposes
the rolling stock and other unlocated personal property of a railway
company, to and for the benefit of the counties traversed by the railroad,
does not violate the provision in the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, that no State shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of its laws.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Zr. William A. Wimbish for plaintiff in error.
The court declined to hear argument for defendant in error.
.Mr. Cifford Anderson and Mr. J. -M. Terrell mfied a brief
for same.
MR.

JUSTICE

JACKSON delivered the opinion of the court.

The question presented by the record in this case is whether
an act of the legislature of Georgia, approved October 16,

