OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

testimony to the effect that in arriving at the latter amount
those claims included in the former, which did not represent
cash, such as commissions to trustees, were to be reduced,
though apparently not by any uniform ratio. Russell, who
had a claim for $50,000 under the first arrangement, settled
at a much less figure paid in stock. It may fairly be said
that the plaintiffs have not proven that their claim was to be
exempted from a reduction corresponding to that made in
others of like character, and of course the burlen is on them
to make out their case. If it be said that the amount of
$38,000 was agreed upon in the first instance, a sufficient reply
is that that agreement was not made with the creditors, and
was only in view of the proposed sale to the English syndicate.
There is no testimony as to the real value of those services.
Equity would seem to say that the claim of plaintiffs should
be scaled down proportionately to the amount allotted to
Wilson under the two contracts, which, as we figure it, would
reduce the sum to $25,440. A majority of the court are of
the opinion that in view of the peculiar circumstances of the
case the plaintiffs should not be allowed interest.
The decree of the court below must, therefore, be reversed and
the case remanded, with instructions to enter a decree in
favor of the plaintiffs, awarding to them the sum o1
$25,440, and adjudging it a lien upon the stock of the
Lake Superior Ship Canal, Railway and .ron Company
remaining in the hands of defendant.

WERINER v. CHARLESTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 941. Submitted January 15,1894. -Decided

January 22, 1894.

This case is dismissed on the authority of Meagher v. )Jlinnesota Thresher
Mffg. Co., 145 U. S. 608, (and other cases named in the opinion,) in which
it was held that a judgment of the highest court of a State, overruling a
demurrer, and remanding the case to the trial court for further proceedings, is not a final judgment.

WERNER v. CHARLESTON.
Opinion of the Court.

The motion stated that "the judgment
MOTION TO DISmiSS.
brought here by writ of error for review, is a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State of South Carolina, which simply
affirmed a decision of the lower court overruling a demurrer,
and thereby remanded the case to the court below for a hearing
on the merits. It is therefore an interlocutory judgment and
is in no sense a final decree."

To this the plaintiff in error replied: "The judgment brought
here by writ of error for review is the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of South Carolina holding that a certain act
of the General Assembly of the State of South Carolina, entitled

IAn act to authorize the City Council of Charleston to fill ip
low lots and grounds in the city of Charleston in certain cases
and for other purposes,' approved on the 18th of December,
1830, is not in violation of the Constitution of the United
States, thereby affirming the judgment of the trial court and
so ending the constitutional defence interposed by the plaintiff
in error.
"An examination of the record will show that the main
ground of the demurrer interposed in the court below by the
plaintiff in error was the unconstitutionality of the act of
1830. It was claimed both there and in the court above, as
well as in this court, to be in violation of due process of law."
ir. Charles Inglesy for the motion.
XP. T. .Aoultrie .Mordecaiopposing.

Tim CHIEF JUSTIcE: The writ of error is dismissed. Mkeagher
v. 3innesota Tkresher Co., 145 U. S.608; Rice v. Sanger,144
U. S. 197; Hume v. Bowie, 148 U. S.245.

