OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

application to the present suit; and, if the prior clause, containing the word "inhabitant," is inapplicable to suits between
an alien and a citizen, as held in Hohorsst' ceae, or if the word
"inhabitant" is used in the sense of "citizen," or "alien," then
it is clear that the plea in abatement, interposed in the present
case by the Texas corporation, is not a valid objection to the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
The opinion of the court, holding to the contrary, rests upon
grounds which have no application to this case.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

concurs in this dissent.

REDDEN v. ROBERTSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 212. Argued January25, 1894. -Decided

February 5,1894.

Woven cotton cloth, the groundwork of which was uniform, and upon
which were figures or patterns, woven into it by means of a Jacquard
attachment contemporaneously with the weaving of the fabric, and which
was known as Madras mull, being imported into the United States in 1886,
became subject to the specific duties imposed by Schedule I (paragraphs
319, 320, 321 in the customs enumeration) of the tariff act of March 3,
1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 488, estimated by the number of threads to the
square inch, and not to the ad valorem duty imposed by the same schedule
on manufactures of cotton not specially enumerated.

Tnis was an action at law against the collector at the port
of New York, to recover duties alleged to have been illegally
imposed upon importations of cotton cloth. Under direction
of the court the jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, on
which judgment was entered. To that judgment the defendant sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the
opinion.
.Mfr. Assiotant Attorney General Whitney for plaintiff in
error.

HEDDEN v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.
.M'.Edwin B. Smith for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE

JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought by William Robertson, the
defendant in error, in the United States Circuit Court for the
Southern District of New York, to recover from the plaintiff
in error, Edward L. Redden, collector of customs at the port
of New York, the sum of $1016.31, alleged to have been illegally exacted in excess of lawful duties on a number of importations of cotton cloths brought into the port of New York
in the year 1886 by the defendant in error.
The alleged illegal duties were levied by the collector under
the provisions of Schedule I, paragraphs 319, 320, and 321, of
the tariff act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 483. These
paragraphs are similar, so far as concerns the present question,
and the language of 320 alone is necessary to be quoted. It
reads as follows:
"On all cotton cloth, not bleached, dyed, colored, stained,
painted, or printed, exceeding one hundred and not exceeding
two hundred threads to the square inch, counting the warp
and filling, three cents per square yard; if bleached, four
cents per square yard; if dyed, colored, stained, painted, or
printed, five cents per square yard: P'ovided, That on all
cotton cloth not exceeding two hundred threads to the square
inch, counting the warp and filling, not bleached, dyed, colored, stained, painted, or printed, valued at over eight cents
per square yard; bleached, valued at over ten cents per
square yard; dyed, colored, stained, painted, or printed, valued
at over thirteen cents per square yard, there shall be levied,
collected, and paid a duty of forty per centum ad va-

lorem."
The defendant in error claimed that the cotton cloth imported by him should not be classified under the provisions
of either of these paragraphs, but that the goods were dutiable only under paragraph 324, which reads as follows:
"Cotton cords, braids, gimps, galloons, webbing, goring,
suspenders, braces, and all manufactures of cotton, not spe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

cially enumerated or provided for in this act, and corsets, of
whatever material composed, thirty-five per centum ad valo'rem.)'
It was shown by the evidence that the difference in the rate
of duty exacted by the collector and that claimed by the
importer was $983.93.
The goods in question were called Madras mull, and consisted of woven cotton cloth, the groundwork of which was
uniform, and upon which were figures or patterns woven contemporaneously with the weaving of the fabric. These figures or patterns were woven into the groundwork by means
of a machine called a Jacquard attachment. When the fabric
was taken from the loom it was not in a finished state. The
threads forming the weft or filling, furnished by the Jacquard
attachment - used entirely for the figures or patterns - loosely

connected the figures in a horizontal line, and were raised
above the smooth service of the groundwork. In order to
bring out the figure or pattern more distinctly, the whole
fabric was run through a clipping machine two or more times,
and the loose threads, together with the raised parts of the
pattern, were cut off, so as to make the fabric smooth and
even. After stating the method of weaving the cloth, and
thereafter clipping it, so as to bring out the figures, the manufacturer, Nicol Paton Brown, a witness of the plaintiff below,
thus described the fabric:
"In the groundwork of the fabric as distinguished from the
figure or pattern the number of threads to the square inch is
uniform throughout the fabric, but when the fabric leaves the
loom and before it goes into the clipping machine the count
of the fabric as a whole differs from the count after it has
been passed through the clipping machine. Before the fabric
is put in the clipping machine the number of threads to the
square inch in the groundwork of the fabric as distinguished
from the colored threads which form the figure is uniform
throughout the fabric, so that if in any of these fabrics a
square inch is selected for the purpose of the count, in which
there is no figure or part of a figure, the number of threads
in that square inch will be the number of threads in any

HEDDEN v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

square inch of the groundwork of the fabric. The terms
weft and filling are synonymous, and I have so used them in
my testimony. The Jacquard machine gives the indication
to the threads of the warp which forms the figure, but the
loom is instrumental in leaving both the groundwork and the
figure.

.

.

.

The weft threads make the figure, but re-

quire to be woven in by the warp in order to retain them in
position in the fabric when being passed through the clipping
machine after being woven."
The warp threads, which lock into the weft threads, are
continuous from end to end throughout the fabric, but the
weft threads, after the fabric has gone through the clipping
process, do not extend continuously from side to side or selvage
to selvage.
The number of threads to the square inch are counted by
the use of a magnifying glass. In the goods in question the
number of threads to the square inch was determined by
counting the threads in a square inch of the groundwork
alone, and there is no dispute that the groundwork of the
cloth, independently of the figures, contained the number of
threads designated in the provision of the statute which
warranted the duty imposed thereon by the collector.
The defendant in error clained, however, that the goods
imported, although composed of cotton and constituting cotton cloth, were dutiable only at the rate of thirty-five per
centum ad valorem as "manufactures of cotton not specially
enumerated and provided for."
The duties imposed by the collector were paid under protest,
and the importer thereafter made due and timely appeal to
the Secretary of the Treasury, who affirmed the decision of
the collector. The importer within the time prescribed by
law brought his action against the collector to recover the
duties which he claimed to have paid in excess of the amount
required by the tariff act of 1883. His complaint set out the
fact of the payment of the duties, his protest, and the adverse
decision of the Secretary of the Treasury, and that the sum
alleged to have been improperly exacted from him had never
been repaid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The answer of the collector denied that the plaintiff had
paid anything in excess of the proper and lawful duty.
Upon the hearing of the cause the court directed the jury
to return a verdict for the plaintiff below for the sum of
$983.93; upon which verdict the court rendered a judgment
for that amount, with interest and costs, aggregating the
amount of $1044.06. 40 Fed. Rep. 322. From this judgment
the defendant below prosecuted his present writ of error.
The court below, while conceding that the goods in question
were cotton cloth, within the meaning of that term, held
that they did not come within the countable clause of paragraphs 319, 320, 321 of Schedule I, above quoted, for the
reason that those provisions of the tariff act of 1883 implied
that the cloth should be homogeneous, so that the number of
threads per square inch will not differ in different parts of the
fabric; and inasmuch as this was not true in reference to the
figures of the fabric, the goods did not come within the meaning of the above-mentioned paragraphs, but came within the
provision of paragraph 324 of the same schedule relating to
"manufactures of cotton not specially enumerated or provided
for."
We think this was not a correct view of the subject. The
provisions in question are substantially the same as those of
Schedule A of cotton and cotton goods, in section 2504, Revised Statutes, which reads as follows:
"SE C. 2504. On all manufactures of cotton, except jeans,
denims, drillings, bed-tickings, ginghams, plaids, cottonades,
pantaloon stuff, and goods of like description, not bleached,
colored, stained, painted, or printed, and not exceeding one
hundred threads to the square inch, counting the warp and
filling, and exceeding in weight five ounces per square yard;
if bleached, five cents and a half per square yard; if colored,
stained, painted, or printed, five cents and a half per square
yard, and in addition thereto, ten per centum ad valorem.
"On finer and lighter goods of like description, not exceeding two hundred threads to the square inch, counting the
warp and filling, unbleached, five cents per yard; if bleached,
five and a half cents per square yard; if colored, stained,

HEDDEN v. IOBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

painted, or printed, five and a half cents per square yard, and,
in addition thereto, twenty per centum ad valorem."
"Cotton braids, insertings, lace, trimming, or bobbinet, and
all other manufactures of cotton, not otherwise provided for,
thirty-five per centum ad valorem."
In ewman v. Arthur, 109 U. S. 132, 138, these provisions
just quoted came before the court for construction and application. The imported goods were cotton Italians, which were
twilled and had upon-them different figures and designs made
in the weaving. The goods had more than one hundred, and
less than two hundred, threads to the square inch, counting
the warp and filling. It was contended in that case, as in
this, that the goods were not dutiable under the countable
clause of the statute, but were dutiable as "manufactures of
cotton, not otherwise provided for." This court held, however, that the goods were dutiable under the countable clause,
although the number of threads constituting the warp and
woof could only be counted by cutting out a square inch of
the cloth and counting the unravelled threads. It was sought
to show by proof that it was not the custom of merchants to
buy and sell such goods, or to determine the value thereof,
partially or wholly, by the number of threads to the square
inch, as ascertained by means of a magnifying glass or otherwise; but Mr. Justice Matthews, speaking for the court, said
that such custom would throw no light whatever on the
meaning of the law, "because the law fixes the rate of duty
by a classification based on the number of threads in a square
inch, without reference to the mode in which the count is to
be made. It might be quite convenient for dealers not to
count the threads except when they could do so without unravelling, but it is a pure conjecture that Congress intended
so to stop the count by collectors at the same limit. There
appears to be no difficulty in counting threads no matter how
fine the fabric, as long as the goods are plain woven; and the
necessity of unravelling for the purpose of counting seems to
exist only in case of twilled goods; and yet this very act
requires a count of threads in the case of jeans, denims, drillings, bed-tickings, etc., which are twilled, and bases a differ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ence of duty upon them according to the number of threads
to the square inch so ascertained."
There is no such substantial difference between the act construed in Newman v. Arthur and the provisions of the act of
1883, now under consideration, as would authorize the court to
place upon the latter a different construction from that placed
upon the former. The practice of determining the number of
threads in both cases was the same, and the acts are so nearly
alike in their provisions that a different interpretation cannot
be given by this court to the last act, which contains no substantial change in phraseology. .McDonald
v. Hovey, 110 U. S.
620.
The provisions of the act of 1883, like the provisions of
section 2504, fixes the rate of duty by a classification, based
on the number of threads in a square inch of cotton cloth,
without reference to the mode by which the count shall be
made, and without regard to the incidental ornamentation of
the fabric.
We have no authority, where the duty is thus specifically
declared, to make an exception, based upon something that
might be added to the cloth in the way of figures or patterns
placed upon the groundwork of the fabric. The groundwork
being cotton cloth, within the terms and provisions of the
statute, and the threads thereof being countable, the goods
were dutiable, by the express language of the statute, at the
rate which was exacted by the collector from the defendant
inerror.
The mode of weaving the goods and of subsequently clipping the fabric so as to bring out the figures, even though that
operation did pare the weft or filling at the figures, does not
change the character of the fabric so as to make it a manufacture of "cotton, not specially enumerated or provided for."
In other words, the ornamentation placed upon the groundwork of the fabric does not change its character as cotton
cloth, subject to the countable clause of the statute, and dutiable under paragraphs 319, 320, and 321 of the act of 1883.
We are, therefore, of opinion that there was error in the
action of the court below, and that the undisputed facts of

NEWPORT LIGHT CO. v. NEWPORT.
Syllabus.

the case establish that a verdict should have been directed for
the defendant.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore, reversed, and
the case remandedfor furtherproceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER did not hear the argument in this case,
and took no part in the decision of the court.

NEWPORT LIGHT COMPANY v. NEWPORT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 1022. Submitted January 22, 1894.-

Decided February 5, 1894.

This court must, when its jurisdiction is invoked to review a decision of
the highest court of a State, determine for itself whether the suit involves
such a Federal question as can be reviewed here under Rev. Stat. ยง 709.
A gas company contracted with a municipal corporation in a State, to
furnish gas in the streets of the municipality, to the exclusion of all
others. Before the expiration of the term, the municipal corporation
made a similar contract with another company. The first company,
by means of a suit in equity against the municipality, begun in the court
below and carried by appeal to the highest court of the State, obtained
a decree restraining the municipality from carrying the second contract
into execution, and enjoining it from contracting with any other person
for lighting the streets with gas during the lifetime of the first contract.
The municipality then, the first contract being still in full force and
unexpired, contracted with an Electric Light Company to light the streets
by electricity. Thereupon the first company procured a rule, in the suit
in equity, against the municipality and its officers to show cause why
they should not be punished for contempt of court for the violation of
the decree. On the pleadings to this rule the trial court held that the
injunction had been violated, and gave judgment accordingly. On appeal
to the highest court of the State, that court reversed the decree below,
and directed the lower court to discharge the rule. The case being
brought here by writ of error, Held,
(1) That the decision of the state court of appeal, which construed the
original decree granting the injunction, neither raised nor presented any Federal question whatever;

