CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. IcGEORGE.
Syllabus.

republication, and held by the testator at the time of the
republication. Had there been a general residuary clause, for
instance, such would clearly have been the effect of a republication. But the only difference is that a residuary clause
embraces all estate whenever acquired; but if the description
actually used is sufficiently large to embrace the estate in controversy, the result must be the same as to such estate."
These views are directly in point in the present case, where
the language is just as comprehensive, and manifests just as
clearly an intention of the testator to devise all his lands in
the State of Oregon.
It may, therefore, be laid down as a general proposition,
that where the testator makes a general devise of his real estate,
especially by residuary clause, he will be considered as meaning to dispose of such property to the full extent of tiis capacity ; and that such a devise will carry, not only the property
held by him at the execution of the will, but also real estate
subsequently acquired of which he may be seized and possessed
at the date of his death, provided there is testamentary power
to make such disposition. 1 Jarman on Wills, 326, 5th ed.,
and other authorities cited.
From the foregoing considerations we are of opinion that
there was no error in the judgment of the court below, and
Afflrmed.
the same is accordingly

CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY v. McGEORGE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 965.

Submitted November 27, 1893. - Decided January 3, 1894.

Exemption from being sued out of the district of its domicil is a privilege
which a corporation may waive, and which is waived by pleading to the
merits.
The fact that neither the plaintiff nor the defendant reside in the district
in which the suit is brought do not prevent the operation of the waiver.
VOL. CLI-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
When a defendant corporation voluntarily submits itself to the jurisdiction
of a Circuit Court of the United States, its action cannot be overruled at
the instance of stockholders and creditors, not parties to the suit so
brought, but who were permitted to become parties by an intervening
petition.

ON the 8th day of August, 1892, the Central Trust Company,

a corporation created by and existing under the laws of the
State of :New York, filed a bill in equity in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Western District of Virginia
against the Virginia, Tennessee and Carolina Steel and Iron
Company, created by and existing under the laws of the State
of New Jersey.
The bill alleged that the defendant company had a place of
business and carried on its business at Bristol, in the Western
District of Virginia, and owned property, real and personal, at
Bristol and elsewhere in the State of Virginia; that the said
defendant company was insolvent; that the plaintiff company
had obtained a judgment on the law side of the court, on
which an execution had been sued out and returned by the
marshal nulla bona, and prayed for the appointment of a
receiver. The defendant company appeared by its president,
John C. Haskell, and consented to the appointment of a
receiver, and thereupon Judge Bond made an order appointing
said John C. Haskell and D. H. Conklin receivers of said
defendant company.
On the same day two other bills were filed in suits styled as
follows: The Central Trust Company of Nfew York v. The
South Atlantic and Ohio Railroad Company, and The Tirginia, Tennessee and CarolinaSteel and-Iron Company v. The
Bristol Zand Company.
In each of said additional bills the complainant company
alleged the insolvency of the defendant company as evidenced
by a judgment obtained against it by confession, in the court
on its law side, on which an execution had issued and been
returned on the same day as nulla bona. In the first named
of these last two suits, the defendant company appeared by
its vice-president, John C. Haskell, and consented that a
receiver should be appointed; and in the last-named suit the

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. McGEORGE.

131

Statement of the Case.

defendant company appeared by its president, John 0. Haskell,
and consented to the appointment of a receiver, and thereupon
Judge Bond appointed said John C. Haskell and D. H. Conklin receivers of each of said companies respectively.
On the 19th day of October, 1892, a petition was presented
to the Circuit Court by William McGeorge and others, claiming to be stockholders and creditors of the Virginia, Tennessee
and Carolina Steel and Iron Company, and John Lv.Bailey,
claiming to be the "valid receiver" of the corporations named,
by virtue of an order made by Hon. D. W. Bolen, judge of
the 15th judicial, circuit of Virginia, in vacation, on the 6th
day of August, 1890, asking that they might be made parties
complainants or defendants as the court might determine, and
that the several causes named might be consolidated and heard
together. The petition further alleged that the Virginia,
Tennessee and Carolina Steel and Iron Company was the main
and substantial company; that the South Atlantic and Ohio
Railroad Company and the Bristol Land Company were mere
offshoots or dependent companies; that the several confessions
of judgments, entered in the court on the 8th day of August,
1892, were made by a person who had no power or authority
to make such confessions of judgment; that said judgments
were procured by fraud and collusion between the representatives, respectively, of the complainant and defendant companies, and that the orders made by Judge Bond, appointing
receivers for each of said defendant companies, were obtained
by misrepresentation, fraud, and collusion by and between
said representatives of the complainant and defendant companies. The said petition further alleged that in the cause of
The Central Trust Campany of N7ew -ork v. The Virginia,
Tennessee and Carolina Steel and Iron Company the court
was without jurisdiction, for the reason that the complainant
company was a corporation created by and existing under the
laws of the State of New York, and a citizen and resident of
said State of New York, and that the defendant company was
a corporation created by and existing under the laws of the
State of New Jersey, and a citizen and resident of said State
of New Jersey.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The said petition was filed by leave of the court, and a rule
was awarded,returnable on the 6th day of December, 1892.
The complainant company, the Central Trust Company of
New York, filed an elaborate answer to said petition, denying
under oath its material allegations. The defendant company,
the Virginia, Tennessee and Carolina Company, filed a separate answer to the said petition, denying its allegations, as did
also the other two defendant companies.
On the 16th day of May, 1893, the district judge filed an
opinion and decree, declining to consolidate the said cases, and
treating the petition of McGeorge and others as the answer of
codefendants. The court decided that it had no jurisdiction,
because while the parties complainant and defendant were
citizens of different States, yet neither of them was a citizen
of the State in which the suit was brought. The order appointing the receivers was accordingly vacated and the bill of
complaint dismissed. From this decree an appeal was taken
and allowed to this court.
.X.

Adrian H. Joline, for appellant.

No brief filed for

appellee.
M .

JUSTICE

SimAs delivered the opinion of the court.

The court below, in holding that it did not have jurisdiction
of the cause, and in dismissing the bill of complaint for that
reason, acted in view of that clause of the act of March 3,
1887, as amended in August, 1888, which provides that "no
civil suit shall be brought in the Circuit Courts of the United
States against any person, by any original process or proceeding, in any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant;" and, undoubtedly, if the defendant company, which
was sued in another district than that in which it had its
domicil, had, by a proper plea or motion, sought to avail itself
of the statutory exemption, the action of the court would have
been right.
But the defendant company did not choose to plead that
provision of the statute, but entered a general appearance, and
joined with the complainant in its prayer for the appointment

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. McGEORGE.
Opinion of the Court.

of a receiver, and thus was brought within the ruling of this
court, so frequently made, that the exemption from being sued
out of the district of its domicil is a personal privilege which
may be waived, and which is waived by pleading to the merits.
In -E parte Shollenberger, 96 U. S.369, 378, which arose
under the Judiciary Act of 1875, it was said: "The act of
Congress prescribing the place where a person may be sued is
not one affecting the general jurisdiction of the courts. It is
rather in the nature of a personal exemption in favor of a
defendant, and it is one which he may waive. If the citizenship of the parties is sufficient, a defendant may consent to be
sued anywhere he pleases, and certainly jurisdiction will not
be ousted because he has consented."
So, under the act of February 18, 1875, 18 Stat. 316, 320,
c. 80, which exempted national banks from suits in state courts
in counties other than the county or city in which the bank
was located, it was held, in Bank v. Morgan, 132 U. S. 141,
that such exemption was a personal privilege which could be
waived by appearing to such a suit brought in another county,
and making defence without claiming the immunity granted
by Congress.
St. Louis & San r'ancisco Raiway v. -McBride, 141
U. S. 127, 131, was a case wherein it was contended in this
court that the court below, the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Arkansas, had no jurisdiction, because the suit was brought against a railway company
whose domicil was in another State, and therefore within the
operation of the Judiciary Act of 1887, as amended in 1888,
providing that no suit shall be brought against any person in
any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant; but
it was held, citing _E parte Sclollenberger, 96 U. S.378, and
Bank v. -Morgan, 132 U. S. 141, that "without multiplying
authorities on this question, it is obvious that the party who in
the first instance appears and pleads to the merits waives hny
right to challenge thereafter the jurisdiction of the court, on the
ground that the suit had been brought in the wrong district."
The court below based its ruling on S]iaw v. Quincy Mining Co., 145 U. S. 444, 453, and on Southern Paoific Co. v.

OCTOBER TERMr, 1893.

Opinion of the Court.
Denton, 146 U. S. 202, and it is true that the right of a corporation to avail itself of the exempting clause of the act of
1887 was there maintained, but, in both cases, the defendants
specially appeared and set up such right, in the one case by a
motion to set aside the service of the process, and in the other
by a special demurrer.
The opinion in Shaw v. Quincy Xining Co., contains a full
history of the legislation on this subject, and refers to the
several questions that have arisen and been determined by
this court under such legislation. The court, speaking through
Mr. Justice Gray, said: "The Quincy Mining Company, a corporation of Michigan, having appeared specially for the purpose of taking the objection that it could not be sued in the
Southern District of New York by a citizen of another State,
there can be no question of waiver, such as has been recognized where a defendant has appeared generally in a suit
between citizens of different States, brought in a wrong district. . . . All that is now decided is that, under the
existing act of Congress, a corporation, incorporated in one
State only, cannot be compelled to answer, in a Circuit Court
of the United States held in another State in which it has a
usual place of business, to a civil suit, at law or in equity,
brought by a citizen of a different State."
In Southern Pacigo Co. v. Denton, where the subject was
again elaborately discussed, it was said: "It may be assumed
that the exemption from being sued in any other district
might be waived by the corporation, by appearing generally,
or by answering to the merits of the action, without first
objecting to the jurisdiction," and the case of St. Louis Railway v. .XcBrid-e,141 U. S. 127, was cited to that effect.
The court below suggested that the present case is distinguishable from the others in which it was held that the right
of exemption might be waived, in that neither the plaintiff nor
the, defendant resided in the district in which the suit was
brought, that is, the Mercantile Trust Company, the plaintiff,
had its residence in New York, and the Virginia, Tennessee,
and Carolina Company, the defendant, was a corporation of
New Jersey.

VORHEES v. NOYE

iANUFACTURING CO.

135

Syllabus.

But a similar state of facts existed in the case of Shaw v.

Quinmy .Jfaing Co., inasmuch as Shaw, the plaintiff, was a
citizen of Massachusetts, and the mining company was a corporation of the State of Michigan, and the suit was brought
in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York.
Nor do we see any reason for a different conclusion, as to the
subject of waiver, when the question arises where neither of
the parties are residents of the district, from that reached
where the defendant only is not such resident.
It is scarcely necessary to say that, as the defendant company had submitted itself to the jurisdiction of the court, such
voluntary action could not be overruled at the instance of
stockholders and creditors, not parties to the suit as brought,
but who were permitted to become ,such by an intervening
petition.
In view, then, of the authorities cited, and upon principle,
we conclude that the court below erred in vacating the order
appointing receivers and in dismissing the bill of complaint,
and we reverse its decree to that effect and remand the cause
with directions for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
1?eversed.

VOORHEES

v. JOHN T. NOYE MANUFACTURING
COMPANY.

APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 734. Submitted December 19, 1893. -Decided

January 3, 1894.

A final decree was entered January 7, 1891, and appeal allowed the same
day. A motion for rehearing was made January 10, 1891, which was
argued February 3, 1892, and denied February 17,1892. An appeal bond
was given April 15, 1892, conditioned for the prosecution of the appeal
taken January 7, 1891, and the record was filed here April 19, 1892.
Held, that, under the provisions of the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826
c. 517, the Circuit Court of Appeals had jurisdiction of an appeal, and,
upon the denial of the petition for a rehearing, a new appeal should have
been taken to that court for the Eighth Circuit.

