OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

TEXAS

AND

PACIFIC RAILWAY
HORN.

COMPANY v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 163. Argued and submitted December 13, 1893. -Decided January 3,1894.
A verdict being returned for plaintiff for $11,000, on suggestion of the
court a remittitur of $6001 was entered. As recorded, the terms of the
judgment were: "It is, therefore, ordered and adjudged by the court that
the plaintiff, 'Henry Horn, do have and recover of the defendant, the
Texas & Pacific Railway Company, the sum of eleven thousand dollars
and all costs in this behalf expended. And it appearing to the court
that on this day the plaintiff filed, in writing, a remitter of $6000.00: It
is, therefore, ordered and adjudged by the court that execution issue for
the sum of $4999.00 only, and all costs herein." The order of allowance
of the writ of error declared that the judgment was rendered for $4999,
and the bond and citation so described it. Held, that, upon the entire
record, the judgment must be held to be for no larger sum than $4999.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr.John F. Dillon and Mr. Winslow S. Pierce for plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. A. Culberson for defendant in error submitted on
his brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Upon the trial of this cause a verdict was returned for the
plaintiff in the sum of eleven thousand dollars, and upon the
suggestion of the court the plaintiff entered a remittitur of six
thousand and one dollars, and prayed that the same be allowed,
and judgment entered for four thousand nine hundred and
ninety-nine dollars. The bill of exceptions states that judgment was rendered for that amount, although as recorded the

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. HORN.
Opinion of the Court.

terms of the judgment, after reciting the return of the verdict,
were:
"It is, therefore, ordered and adjudged by the court that the
plaintiff, Henry Horn, do have and recover of the defendant,
the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, the sum of eleven
thousand dollars and all costs in this behalf expended.
"And it appearing to the court that on. this day the plaintiff filed, in writing, a remitter of $6000.00:
"It is, therefore, ordered and adjudged by the court that
execution issue for the sum of $4999.00 only, and all costs
herein."
The writ of error bore date June 24, 1890, and was made
a supersedeas, the order of allowance declaring that the judgment was rendered for $4999.00, February 13, 1890, and that
a motion for new trial was filed, but not acted on until June
5, 1890. The bond and citation describe the judgment as for
$4999.00.
Although the judgment was entered immediately upon the
return of the verdict in accordance with the practice in .that
jurisdiction, and, therefore, for the amount of the verdict, it
was within the power of the court to allow the remittitur;
and while the order to that effect might have been more
accurately worded, we are of opinion that, upon the entire
record, plaintiff in error cannot be permitted to insist that the
judgment as it stands is for a larger sum than $4999, nor can
it be hereafter held liable as on judgment for any other
amount. Hence this case is not within our jurisdiction, unless
it falls within the act of Congress of February 25, 1889, 25
Stat. 693, c. 236, which, for the reasons given in Texas and
Pacic Railway v. Saunders, ante, 105, we do not think it
does. The railway company, in this case, as in that, filed a
plea based upon the order of October 26, 1888, of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and in this case, as in that, the matter set up was in bar
and not in abatement. The jurisdiction of the Circuit C6urt
for the Eastern District of Texas was not thereby questioned.
WMit of error di"missed.

