OCTOBER TERM, 189&
Statement of the Case.

TUCKER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 970. Submitted December 4, 1893.-

Decided January 3, 1894.

An affidavit, under section 878 of the Revised Statutes, by a person indicted,
setting forth that certain testimony is material to his defence and that he
is without means to pay the witnesses, and praying that they may be
summoned and paid by the United States, is not a "pleading of a party,"
nor "discovery or evidence obtained from a party or witness by means of
a judicial proceeding," which cannot, by section 860, be given in evidence
against him in a criminal proceeding.
On a trial for murder of a woman by shooting, the jury were instructed that.
if the defendant, at the time of the killing, although not insane, was in
such a condition, by reason of drunkenness, as to be incapable of forming
a specific intent to kill, or to do the act that he did do, the grade of his
crime would be reduced to manslaughter. Held, that he had no ground
of exception to a refusal to instruct that if at the time of the killing he
was so drunk as to render the formation of any specific intent to take her
life impossible on his part, and before being drunk he entertained no
malice towards her and no intention to take her life, he could not be convicted of murder.
Rulings objected to at the trial, but not stated in the bill of exceptions to
have been excepted to, are not subject to review on error.

THIS was an indictment, found at November term, 1892, of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of Arkansas, against Marshal Tucker, for the murder of
Lula May, a white woman, by shooting her with a pistol, at
the Choctaw Nation in the Indian Country in that district on
October 15, 1892.
The defendant pleaded not guilty; and by agreement of the
parties the case was ordered to be continued to the next term
and set down for trial on February 23, 1893.
On February 21, 1893, the defendant, by his attorney, filed
an application, dated February 20, and signed and sworn to
by him, pursuant to section 878 of the Revised Statutes, setting
forth that certain persons named were material witnesses for

TUCKER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

his defence; that "by the three first-named witnesses, who
reside at South McAlester, he can show that he was so intoxicated at the time of the alleged homicide that he had no
knowledge of what he was doing, and was incapable of forming any design;" that "these statements he believes to be
true, and he is not possessed of sufficient means, and is actually
unable to procure the attendance of said witnesses;" and
therefore praying that they might be summoned at the expense of the United States. Thereupon the court ordered that
the legal expense of procuring the testimony of those witnesses be paid by the United States, and that a subpoena be
issued for them returnable February 23.
At the trial, in March, 1893, the government introduced
evidence tending to show that the woman killed was an
inmate of a house of ill fame, and that the defendant, on the
evening of October 15, 1892, went to the house and asked for
admittance, and, the door not being opened, fired a pistol
through the door and killed the woman.
The defendant called none of the witnesses named in his
application; but, having offered himself as a witness in his
own behalf, testified as to what took place at the time of the
killing, and, among other things, that he did not fire any shot
at all; that after he had asked to be admitted to the house, a
shot was fired by some other person, whether from the inside
or the outside he did not know, and afterwards his pistol was
put into his hand by another man whom he named.
On cross-examination, the defendant testified that he signed
the application aforesaid; that he had not since changed his
mind about whether he knew what was going on there or not;*
that the witnesses named were present, and saw him intoxicated at the time of the killing; that the defence then
intended was not that he was crazy; and further testified
that on the night of the killing he was not so drunk as
not to know what he was doing, and everything that was
going on.
The district attorney, in rebuttal, offered in evidence the
application for witnesses. The counsel for the defendant
objected that it was incompetent, under section 860 of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Revised Statutes. But the court admitted the paper in evidence, and the defendant excepted to its admission.
The defendant contended that he did not kill the woman;
that, if he did, his crime was manslaughter only; and that, at
the time of the killing, he was intoxicated.
The substance of the instructions of the court upon the subject of intoxication sufficiently appears by the following
extracts: "If the statement of the defendant himself, that he
did know what he was doing, is true, and he intentionally
drew the pistol, presented it, and fired it so as to take the life
of this woman, that would not be a state of case where there
would be that absence of that premeditation which goes to
make malice aforethought. If he was in a condition of mind,
at the time that he was so acting, that his mind was so disturbed by drinking, by a drunken condition, that he was incapacitated so that he was incapable of forming any intent, or
intent to do a wrongful act that might result in death, that
may be taken into account for the purpose of showing a state
of case where the crime would be of less grade than that of
murder." "When a man's mind is in a condition where he
can form an intent to do a wrongful act that may result in
murder, and he does deliberately form that intent, as evidenced
by the drawing and presenting and firing his pistol, then intoxication does not mitigate his offence. If he is carried beyond
that, although he may not be absolutely insane, so that his will
power is gone, so that he has no control over it, so that he
cannot restrain it, while he may not be insane, then there is
an absence from the case of what is denominated by law as
malice aforethought, and his offence would be manslaughter."
"You are not to excuse him to the extent of mitigating his
crime because he was drunk, unless he was in that condition
where he was incapable of forming an intent, where he was incapable of coming to a conclusion - and it does not mean alone
incapable of forming a specific intent to kill, but it means incapable of forming a specific intent to do an act that may kill,
that goes so far as to reduce the grade of the crime. If he
could not form a specific intent to do the act he did do, then that
would reduce the grade of the crime, because of drunkenness."

TUCKER v. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

The defendant requested the court to instruct the jury that
if they believed from the evidence "that the defendant was at
the time of the killing of Lula, May drunk, and that before
becoming drunk he entertained no malice toward her and had
no intention to take her life, and that his intoxication was so
deep as to render the formation of any specific intent to take
life impossible on his part, he could not be convicted of murder." This request was refused, "because the law had been
correctly given on the subject of drunkenness;" and to the
refusal of the court to so instruct the jury the defendant at the
time excepted.
The bill of exceptions further stated that the defendant
objected to the instructions given by the court to the jury in
several particulars, but did not show that an exception was
taken to any of those instructions.
The defendant was convicted of murder and sentenced to
death, and sued out this writ of error.
.Xr.A. H. Garlandfor plaintiff in error.
.r. Assista t Attorney Genera Conrad for defendants in

error.
M2. JUSTICE GnAY, after stating the

case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The only exception argued .to any ruling upon evidence was
to the admission, in contradiction of the defendant's own testimony at the trial, of the application made by him on oath, a
few days before, for the summoning and payment by the
United States of witnesses in his behalf.
That application was made under section 878 of the Revised
Statutes, which is as follows: "Whenever any person indicted
in a court of the United States makes affidavit, setting forth
that there are witnesses whose evidence is material to his
defence; that he cannot safely go to trial without them; what
he expects to prove by each of them; that they are within the
district in which the court is held, or within one hundred

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
.Opinion of the Court.

miles of the place of trial-- and that he is not possessed of sufficient means, and is actually unable to pay the fees of witnesses,
the court in term, or any judge thereof in vacation, may order
that such witnesses be subpoenaed if found within the limits
aforesaid. In such case the costs incurred by the process and
the fees of the witnesses shall be paid in the same manner that
similar costs and fees are paid in case of witnesses subpoenaed
in behalf of the United States."
The objection to the admission of this affidavit or application was founded on section 860 of the Revised Statutes,
which is as follows: "1No pleading of a party, nor any discovery or evidence obtained from a party or witness by means
of a judicial proceeding in this or any foreign country, shall
be given in evidence, or in any manner used against him or
his property or estate, in any court of the United States, in
any criminal proceeding, or for the enforcement of any
penalty or forfeiture: Provided, that this section shall not
exempt any party or witness from prosecution and punishment for perjury committed in discovering or testifying as
aforesaid."
The paper in question was neither a "pleading of a party,"
nor "discovery or evidence obtained from a party or witness
]by means of a judicial proceeding."
"Pleadings of parties"1
are the allegations made by the parties to a civil or criminyal
Acase, for the purpose of definitely presenting the issue to
ibe tried and determined between them. "Discovery or evidence obtained from a party or witness by means of a judicial
proceeding" includes only facts or papers which the party
or witness is compelled by subpoena, interrogatory or other
judicial process to disclose, whether he will or no: and is inapplicable to testimony voluntarily given, or to documents
voluntarily produced. The clause as to discovery or evidence
is conceived in the same spirit as the Fifth Amendment of the
Constitution, declaring that no person shall be compelled in
any criminal case to be a witness against himself; and as the
act of March 16, 187, c. 37, (20 Stat. 30,) enacting that a
defendant in any criminal case may be a witness at his own
request, but not otherwise, and that his failure to make

TUCKER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

such request shall not create any presumption against him.
Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616; Wilson v. United
States, 149 U. S. 60; Lees v. United States, 150 U. S. 476.
The application for witnesses, or "affidavit," as it is called in
section 878, is clearly not a pleading of the defendant for the
purpose of defining the issue to be tried in the case. Nor is
it obtained from him by any judicial process, which he is obliged
to obey. But it is made of his own motion; and it states
such facfs, and such only, as he, being in no way interrogated
or cross-examined, may choose to state. His oath to the nature
and materiality of the desired testimony, and to his own want
of means, is required merely to establish the good faith of his
demand that particular witnesses shall be summoned and paid
by the government.
The affidavit being neither a "pleading" of the defendant,
nor "discovery or evidence obtained" from him, within the
meaning of the statute, the statements therein, as in any
other paper voluntarily signed by him, whether upon oath or
not, were competent evidence to contradict his testimony upon
the stand.
In the matter of instructions to the jury, the only exception
reserved at the trial was to the refusal to give the instruction
requested as to the effect of the defendant's drunkenness upon
his guilt.
In Etopt v. People, 104 U. S. 631, this court recognized the
general rule that, at common law, voluntary intoxication
affords no excuse, justification or extenuation of a crime committed under its influence; and went no further in favor of
admitting evidence of intoxication than to hold that a defendant, indicted under a territorial statute establishing degrees of
murder and requiring deliberate premeditation to constitute
murder in the first degree, might show that at the time of the
killing he was in such a condition, by reason of drunkenness,
as to.be incapable of deliberate premeditation.
No act of Congress has established degrees of the crime of
murder. By the common law, neither deliberate premeditation, nor express malice or intent to kill, is required to
make an unlawful homicide murder, but malice may be im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

plied from the use of a deadly weapon or other significant
facts; and any unlawful killing without malice, express or
implied, is manslaughter. It has often been held, and was
formerly considered to be settled law; that a wanton killing
without provocation could not, by reason of being done by a
man voluntarily intoxicated to any degree not amounting to
insanity, be excused, or reduced from murder to manslaughter.
United States v. Cornell, 2 Mason, 91, 111; United States v.
.Drew, 5 Mason, 28; United States v. IfeGle, 1 Curtis C. 0.
1, 13; People v. Rogers, 18 N. Y. 9; King v. People, 31.
IN. Y. 330; Commonwealth v. Hlawkins, 3 Gray, 463; State v.
Johnson, 41 Conn. 584; State v. John, 8 Iredell, 330; 1
Bisbop's INew Criminal Law, §§ 400, 401. But that view has
not been universally accepted in recent times, and we are not
required in the present case to express any opinion in regard
to it.
The instruction requested was that if the defendant at the
time of killing the woman was so drunk as to render the formation of any specific intent to take her life impossible on his
part, and before becoming drunk he entertained no malice
towards her and no intention to take her life, he could not be
convicted of murder. This instruction was refused, because
it had been covered by the instructions given. In those
instructions the jury were distinctly told that if the defendant
at the time of the killing, although not insane, was in such a
condition of mind, by reason of drunkenness, as to be incapable of forming a specific intent to kill, or to do the act that he
did do, the grade of his crime would be reduced to manslaughter. The instructions given were quite as favorable to
the defendant as that which he requested; and the fact that
the court instructed the jury in its own words, and declined to
adopt the language of the counsel to the same effect, affords
no ground of exception. Anthony v. Iouisville & .'Tashville
Railroad,132 U. S. 172.
The other instructions to which the defendant objected are
not subject to review, because the bill of exceptions does not
show that he excepted to them. United States v. Breitling,
20 How. 252.
Jud
9 gment aflrmed.

