CADWALADER v. ZEH.
Statement of the Case.

CADWALADER v. ZEE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 106. Argued November 23,1893. -Decided

January 8,1894.

If words used in a statute imposing duties on imports had at the time of
its passage a well-known signification in our trade and commerce, different from their ordinary meaning among the people, the commercial
meaning must prevail, unless Congress has clearly manifested a contrary
intention; and it is only when no commercial meaning is called for or
proved, that the common meaning is to be adopted.
The question whether small earthenware cups, saucers, mugs and plates,
having on them letters of the alphabet and figures of animals or the like,
are ''toys," within the meaning of Schedule N, and not "earthenware,"
within Schedule B, of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, depends upon the
commercial meaning of the word" toys," if that differs from the ordinary
meaning.

This was an action, begun May 22, 1888, against the collector of the port of Philadelphia, to recover an excess of
duties paid under protest upon four lots of earthenware, consisting of small cups, saucers and mugs, and plates five or six
inches in diameter, having upon them pictures of animals and
of other objects, and letters of the alphabet, imported by the
plaintiffs during the winter of 1887-88, invoiced as toys, and
which the plaintiffs contended should have been assessed
under the clause in Schedule N in the tariff act of March 3,
1883, c. 121, "dolls and toys, thirty-five per centum ad valorem;" but which the collector assessed under Schedule B of
that act, imposing a duty on "china, porcelain, parian and
bisque, earthen, stone and crockery ware, including plaques,
ornaments, charms, vases and statuettes, painted, printed or
gilded, or otherwise decorated or ornamented in any manner,
sixty per centum ad valorem." 22 Stat. 495, 512.
At the trial, one of the plaintiffs and many other importers
and sellers of china and earthenware, and of toys and fancy
goods, in Philadelphia, called as witnesses for the plaintiffs,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

testified that there was a class of goods in their business, made
of earthenware, and consisting of cups, saucers, mugs and
plates, commercially known and designated, bought and sold,
as toys; that the articles in question (samples of which were
produced by the plaintiffs) belonged to that class, were sold at
six dollars a gross or fifty cents a dozen, and were intended
for children to play with, although they could be, and sometimes were, used by children to drink or eat from.
The defendant called as witnesses two dealers in china and
earthenware, who had been appraisers in the custom-house,
and many manufacturers of earthenware at Trenton in the
State of New Jersey, all of whom testified that there was a
4lass of earthenware goods known in the trade as toys, but
that the articles in question did not come within that class,
because they were not small enough, and were fit for practical
use; and some of whom testified that they were commonly
bought and sold as cups, saucers, plates and mugs.
The defendant offered to prove by one of these witnesses
that just before the trial he called at the toy-shop of Schwarz
in Philadelphia, and asked for toy ware like the articles in
,question, was told that they did not keep such articles, and
was shown tea sets of a smaller size. And he offered to prove
by another of the witnesses that about the same time he called
-at John Wanamaker's establishment in Philadelphia, and,
upon inquiry at the toy department thereof, was informed
that the articles in question were not sold in that department
as toys, but were to be found in the regular china or crockery
department, and that he thereupon went to that department,
and was shown such articles. The court excluded this evi4ence, and the defendant excepted to its exclusion.
The only other witness for the defendant testified, without
,objection by the plaintiffs, that he had been for two years in
Mr. Wanamaker's employ as assistant manager of the crockery, china and glass department; that he knew the articles in
question in his business; that they were known to the trade
as plates, cups, saucers and mugs, and were sold as child's sets,
and their principal use was to eat and drink from; that the
business in his department was not large in those articles; and

CADWALADER v. ZEH.
Statement of the Case.

that he knew nothing about a toy department in Mr. Wanamaker's establishment, except by passing through it.
The defendant requested the court to give to the jury the
following instructions:
"1st. If you believe that the goods in question are bought,
sold and used as earthen, stone or crockery ware, and not as
toys, then your verdict should be for the defendant.
"2d. If you believe that the articles in question on March
3, 1883, and prior thereto, were commercially known and designated as earthenware, and if you believe that they were not
at that time described and designated as toys, then it is immaterial how they have since been known and designated, and
your verdict should be for the defendant.
"3d. If you believe that the articles in question are known
as earthenware in the trade, and are chiefly used as other
articles of earthenware, stone and crockery ware are used, and
are not chiefly used as playthings for children, then your verdict should be for the defendant.
"4th. The circumstance that the articles in question may
possibly be used for purposes other than household purposes is
not controlling, and, even if you believe that sometimes they
are incidentally used by children as playthings, your verdict
should be for the defendant if you believe that their chief use
is for household purposes and that they are not known as toys
in the trade.
"5th. If you find that there is no trade designation of these
articles as toys, then the question becomes purely and simply
one of fact, viz.: what is the predominating use to which these
articles are devoted, and if you believe that they are not chiefly
used as playthings for children, then your verdict should be
for the defendant.
"6th. If you believe that the articles in question are bought
and sold under the names of a cup, saucer and plate, and not
under the name of toys, then your verdict should be for the
defendant.
" 7tb. A 'toy' is an article used exclusively for the amusement of children; and if you believe that the articles in question
are chiefly used by children otherwise than as playthings, then

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

they are not toys within the meaning of the tariff act, and
your verdict should be for the defendant; provided the word
'toys' has no special trade meaning.
"8th. Upon the evidence in this case, the term 'toys' should
not be given any technical or particular or commercial meaning, but should receive its proper signification and natural import; and if the articles in question are not 'toys' in the
popular and general sense of the term, but are used for ordinary household purposes, like other articles of earthenware,
and if such use is predominating, and not exceptional, then
your verdict should be for the defendant."
The court gave all those instructions, except the third; dedlined to give the third, because "if they were denominated
toys by the trade at that time, then it is unimportant how they
were used;" and instructed the jury that all the subsequent
instructions were predicated upon the idea that the jury "do
not find this term 'toy' to have a trade signification." To
this instruction, as well as to the refusal to give the third
instruction requested, the defendant excepted.
The court further instructed the jury that the signification
of the term "toys," in common speech, embraces only such
things as are primarily intended for the entertainment and
amusement of children; that "the term 'toys,' used in the
statute, is to receive the signification ordinarily attributed to it
in common speech, unless the evidence shows that it has a
different trade signification, that is, that it is differently used
and understood when applied to such merchandise by those
engaged in commerce respecting it, and had such different signification at the date of the statute in 1883 ;" that, if it had
such different signification in trade and commerce, the statute
must be understood as using the term in that sense; that the
evidence seemed to put beyond doubt that the term had a
well understood trade signification, inasmuch as the witnesses
on both sides testified that at and before the date of the statute it was in common use among those engaged in this branch
of commerce, and differed only as respected the scope of its
application; and concluded the instructions to the jury as
follows: "If you find that the term in question has a well

CADWALADER v. ZEH.
Opinion of the Court.

known trade signification, (had at the date of the statute,) and
that these articles fall within it, your verdict must be for the
plaintiff, no matter whether the trade designation seems to
you to be reasonable or not.. If you dco not so find, your verdict
must be for the defendant."
To those passages of the instructions given, which are above
printed in quotation marks, the defendant excepted, and, after
verdict and judgment for the plaintiff, sued out this writ of
error.
Xr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for plaintiff in
error.
..

-FrankP. Prichardfor defendant in error.

MR. JUsTicE GEY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The question in this case is whether four invoices of small
earthenware cups, saucers, mugs and plates, having upon them
letters of the alphabet and figures of animals or the like, are
to be classed, under the tariff act of 1883, as "toys," subject
to a duty of thirty-five per cent, or as "earthenware, decorated
or ornamented in any manner," subject to a duty of sixty-five
per cent ad valorem.
The jury were instructed that the word "toys," in common
speech, means playthings for children; that the word was to
have that meaning in this case, unless the evidence showed
that at the time of the passage of the tariff act it had a different trade signification, that is, that it was differently used and
understood when applied to such merchandise by those engaged
in commerce respecting it; and that, if it then had a well
known trade signification, the statute must be understood as
using it in that sense. The principal exception of the defendant is to this last instruction. The words "trade" and
"commerce) were evidently used, throughout the instructions
requested and those given, as including both domestic and
foreign traffic in this country.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The instruction excepted to was in accordance with the uniform current of decision in this court. It has long been a
settled rule of interpretation of the statutes imposing duties on
imports, that if words used therein to designate particular
kinds or classes of goods have a well known signification in our
trade and commerce, different from their ordinary meaning
among the people, the commercial meaning is to prevail, unless
Congress has clearly manifested a contrary intention; and that
it is only when no commercial meaning is called for or proved,
that the common meaning of the words is to be adopted.
United States v. Chests of Tea, 9 Wheat. 430, 438; Tyng v.
Grinnell, 92 U. S. 467; Arthur v. Buttefteld, 125 U. S. 70;
Robertson v. Salomon, 130 U. S. 412, 415; American 11'et &f
Twine Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468; Toplitz v. Hedden,
146 U. S. 252; .Yix v. Rledden, 149 U. S. 304. Among the
words to which this rule has been applied are "refined sugar,"
Barlow v. United States, 7 Pet. 404; "sugar" and "syrup, "
United States v. Casks of Sugar, 8 Pet. 277; "wool" and
"worsted," Elliott v. Swartwot, 10 Pet. 137; "cotton bagging," Curtis v. Martin, 3 How. 106; "silk veils," Arthur v.
.Morrison, 96 U. S. 108; "bar iron," Worthington v. Abbott,
124 U. S. 434; "furniture finished," Redden, v. Richards, 149
U. S. 346.
None of the cases cited in behalf of the collector have any
tendency to shake this rule; but all of them depended on
special provisions of the statutes.
The case of Maillardv. Lawrence, 16 How. 251, which was
much relied on, arose under the act of July 30, 1846, c. 74,
imposing a duty of thirty per cent on "clothing ready made,
and wearing apparel of every description, of whatever material composed, made up or manufactured wholly or in part
by the tailor, sempstress or manufacturer;" and a duty of
twenty-five per cent on "manufactures of silk, or of which
silk shall be a component material," and on "manufactures of
worsted, or of which worsted shall be a component material."
9 Stat. 45, 46. It was because of the peculiar language of the
first of those clauses, making the designed object and actual
use of the things the sole test, that this court, affirming the

CADWALADER v. ZEH.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment of the Circuit Court in 1 Blatchford, 504, held that

the words "wearing apparel" must be given their natural and
ordinary meaning, and that evidence that shawls of silk or of
worsted were not known in trade and commerce as "wearing
apparel" was not admissible to show that they were not included in that clause. In the Circuit Court, Mr. Justice iNelson said that "this phraseology, for the purpose of describing
a dutiable article, was used for the first time in the act of 1846,
and was introduced for the purpose of describing a class of
articles, not as known in trade and commerce by any particular appellation, but by the actual use for which they were
designed, and to which they were adapted, taken in connection
with the fact that they were made up or manufactured wholly
or in part by the tailor, sempstress, or manufacturer;" and
that "Congress intended to depart from the commercial
designation as the test to determine the description within
which the duty should or should not be charged, and to leave
such determination to the test of the actual use of the article." 1 Blatchford, 505. And Mr. Justice Daniel, in delivering the judgment of this court, said that it must be
understood as being the intention of the legislature to comprise "every article which in its design and completion and
received uses is an article of wearing apparel," "no matter of
what material composed, either in whole or in part, or by
whom composed or made up." 16 How. 260.
The decision in -De Forrest v. lawrence, 13 How. 274, was
an application of the rule that where goods of a particular
kind, which would otherwise be comprehended in a class
described by a term having a settled commiercial signification,
have been described in the customs laws by a more specific
designation and subjected to a distinct rate of duty from that
imposed upon the class generally, they are taken out of that
class for the purpose of the assessment of duties. See Seeberger v. Cahn, 137 U. S. 95, 98, and cases cited.
In Greenleaf v. Goodrich, 101 U. S. 278, and in Schmieder
v. Barney, 113 U. S.645, the extent of the decision was that
the phrase "of similar description" was not a technical or
commercial term; and that, while it might be competent to,
VOL. CLI-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ask merchants and importers what the words, in the act of
July 14, 1862, c. 163, (12 Stat. 553,) "goods of similar description to delaines" were commercially understood to mean, they
could not be asked whether in their opinion the goods in question were of similar description to delaines.

In Barber v. 8che4, 107 U. S. 617, 621, the words held not
to be affected by commercial usage were "all manufactures

composed wholly of cotton, which are bleached, printed,
painted or dyed." Act of March 3, 1857, c. 98, ยง 2; 11 Stat.
193. That designation, as observed by Mr. Justice Blatchford,
speaking for this court, and following the decision of Mr.
Justice Nelson ii Reimer v. Schtell, 4 Blatchford, 328, was a
designation of articles by special description of quality or
material, as contradistinguished from designation by a commercial name.
In NSewman v. Arthur, 109 U. S. 132, the decision was that
the clear meaning of the provisions of section 2504: of the
Revised Statutes, fixing the rate of duty on manufactures of
cotton by a classification based on the number of threads to
the square inch, without reference to the mode of counting,
could not be controlled by evidence as to what goods were
usually bought and sold by the count of threads.
No reason is shown for taking the present case out of the
general rule. The tariff act of 1883 contains nothing from
which it can be inferred that the word "toys" is used therein
in any other than its commercial meaning. At the trial the
witnesses on both sides testified that there was a class of
earthenware goods commonly known in trade and commerce
as toys. They differed, indeed, upon the question whether
these articles came within that class; the plaintiffs' witnesses
testifying that they did, and the defendant's witnesses that
they did not. But the comparative weight to be allowed to
the different witnesses, or classes of witnesses, was a matter
for the consideration of the jury. If the whole testimony in
the case enabled the jury to determine whether the articles in
question were commercially known as toys, their commercial
designation by those carrying on the business of dealing in
them was a safer test, and more in accord with the apparent

SOUTHWORTH v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

intent of Congress, and with the rule of construction judicially
established in similar cases, than to leave the question, whether
"toys" or "earthenware" was the fitter name for these articles, to be decided by the opinion of jurors, based upon their
personal knowledge or experience. The jury having been
distinctly instructed that if they found that there was no trade
designation of these articles as toys, and that they were not
chiefly used as playthings for children, the verdict should be
for the defendant, the defendant has no just ground of exception to the instructions given, or to the refusal to instruct as
requested.
The only other exception argued is to the exclusion of the
testimony of two witnesses as to what each of them was told,
upon inquiring for such articles, at a large toy-shop in Philadelphia just before the trial. This testimony was rightly
excluded. Upon the question of the ordinary meaning of the
word "toys," it was irrelevant. If such testimony could have
been competent under any circumstances to prove a commercial meaning, (which we do not intimate,) it certainly had
no tendency to prove what that meaning was at the time of
the passage of the act of 1883.
Jdgment afflrmed.

SOUTHWORTH v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROMX THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 171.

Argued December 15, 18,1893. -Decided

January 8,1894.

8283 complaints being made to a commissioner of a Circuit Court charging
that number of persons with violating the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 5512,
by fraudulently obtaining registration in Louisiana, that number of warrants were issued and delivered to the marshal. 6903 of the persons
against whom the warrants issued were not found. 1380 were arrested,
77 of whom were held for trial, and the remaining 1303 on examination
were discharged. The commissioner presented his account to the court,
claiming in each of the 8283 cases the fee of .$10,allowed by Rev. Stat.
ยง 1986 for "his services in each case, inclusive of all services incident to
the arrest and examination." The Circuit Court approved and allowed
the claim only as to the 77 cases, and that was paid. The commissioner

