MORAN v. HAGERMAN.
Statement of the Case.

MORAN v. IAGERMAN.
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF IEVADA.
iNo. 875. Submitted January 12, 1894.-Decided January 22, 1894.

Following Maynard v. Hecht, ante, 324, this case is dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.

MOTION TO DISMISS. Moran Brothers filed their bill of complaint against William Wright, A. A. Watkins, Jerry Schooling,
and others, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nevada, alleging that the Union Trust Company of
New York was the mortgagee in trust of the Nevada and
Oregon Railroad Company for the benefit of the holders of
certain bonds of the said company, and had brought suit in
that court to foreclose the trust deed or mortgage, which suit
was then pending therein; that the Complainants were holders
of three hundred and ten of some six hundred bonds of 81000
each, certified and issued by the trustee under said deed, and
that the defendants each claimed to hold some of them; that
the company had no right to issue the bonds to the defendants, and that as between complainants and defendants the
former were entitled to priority in the distribution of the proceeds of the sale of the mortgage bonds. The bill prayed for
an injunction against the transfer of the bonds held by defendants and a decree that the defendants were not entitled to participate or share in the money realized from the sale of the
road. In the meantime the property was sold under the foreclosure suit and bid in by Moran Broters. Defendants
answered, and on final hearing a decree was passed as prayed
for in the bill and applying the proceeds on the complainants'
bonds only. From that decree the defendants appealed to
this court, which at October term, 1889, dismissed the appeal
as to some of the appellants, affirmed it as to others, and reversed it as to Wright, Watkins, and Schooling, and remanded

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

the case to the Circuit Court for further proceedings to be bad
therein consistent with the opinion. .Mc2.urray v. -Moran,
134 U. S. 150. Thereafter Schooling died, and Hagerman, his
administrator, was substituted.
The mandate of this court was issued July 19, 1890, and
was filed in the Circuit Court, November 3, 1890, and on February 2, 1891, the Circuit Court entered a decree in the cause,
wherein it was adjudged that complainants holding the three
hundred and ten bonds, and Wright, Watkins, and Hagerman,
administrator, holding thirty-one bonds, "are entitled to have,
and do have, their three hundred and forty-one bonds, mentioned in said bill of complaint, and the answer on file herein,
paid out of the proceeds arising from the sale of the mortgaged
premises, described in the said complaint, if the proceeds so
arising are sufficient; and if such proceeds are not sufficient,
then that said complainants and said defendants, A. A. Watkins,
and J. C. Hagerman as administrator of the estate of Jerry
Schooling, deceased, and John Wright, as administrator of
the estate of James Webster, deceased, with the will annexed,
share in the proceeds of said sale in proportion to the amount
of bonds held by them respectively, and upon terms of equality with complainants." The decree then described how the
three hundred and ten and the thirty-one bonds were held, and
further adjudged that the said three hundred and forty-one
bonds "were negotiated and sold to bona f e purchasers for
value, and are valid and subsisting obligations and are unpaid,
and a valid and subsisting charge and lien upon the railroad
and property described in said bill of complaint, and 'are
entitled to be paid out of the proceeds arising from the sale of
said mortgaged property."
October 21, 1891, Watkins filed notice and petition for an
order modifying the decree of February 2, 1891, so that there
be inserted a provision to ascertain the amount due on the
three hundred and forty-one bonds, and the amount of the
proceeds of the foreclosure sale, and the costs of sale and suit,
and the proportion of the proceeds properly applicable to the
payment of the three hundred and ten bonds owned by complainants, and the thirty-one bonds owned by the defendants;

MORAN v. HAGERMAN.
Statement of the Case.

and a further provision that upon the ascertainment and
determination of said matter, the defendants have judgment
and execution against complainants for the proportionate
amount of the proceeds to which they were respectively
entitled. The application was accompanied by affidavits, and
the notice stated that the motion "will be made upon the
grounds that said matters were omitted from the said decree
by oversight, inadvertence, and mistake, and upon the further
ground set forth and contained in the petition hereto annexed
and served and filed herewith." The various proceedings
were severally set forth in the petition, which also averred
that after applying the money realized from the foreclosure
and sale to the payment of costs of suit and sale the marshal
paid the balance of $367,234.55 to complainants, who received
and retained the same; and that, in order to enjoy the full
fruits and benefits of the decree and of the mandate of the
Supreme Court, the Circuit Court should have referred the
cause to a master, which, by inadvertence, was omitted from
the decree. To the motion and petition complainants filed
objections for want of equity; of plenary pleadings; of proper
process; and that the term at which the decree of February
2, 1891, was entered had expired before the motion and
petition were filed, and that for this reason the court had lost
jurisdiction and control of the decree, and had no power to
alter or modify the same. The court entertained the application and testimony was taken thereon; and upon hearing, on
May 9, 1892, an order was made granting the petition and
modifying and amending the decree accordingly, and referring the cause to a master to ascertain and report to the court
the matters above mentioned, and reserving the cause for final
decree upon the coming in of the report of the master. A
bill of exceptions was settled by the judge of the Circuit
Court, June 10, 1892, which contained the proceedings on the
motion and the exception of complainants to the order of May
9. The master proceeded under the order and filed his report
June 6, 1892, and no exceptions or objections having been
filed thereto, a decree was entered September 6, 1892, in
which the court found that the net proceeds of the sale were

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

$367,615.31, and were paid to complainants on the day of sale.
The court also found the amount due on the bonds held by
complainants and defendants and the proportions in which
the net proceeds of the sale should be applied, and made
application accordingly and gave defendants judgment for the
respective amounts to which they were entitled. On November 3, 1892, complainants prayed an appeal to this court from
the decree of September 6, 1892, which was allowed that day,
and on the same day complainants filed their assignment of
errors to the effect that the decree should have been given in
favor of complainants and against the defendants "for the
reason that the term had elapsed at which said original decree
was made, and the said Circuit Court had lost jurisdiction of
said suit and had no power or authority to modify or amend
said original decree, or to make any order or decree in said suit
in any manner affecting the rights of the parties herein."
-Mr. I .E.-F.Deal, .lb. Edmund Tauuszky, and -Yr.Horatio
C. Eing for the motion.
.M-'. "t eeler B. Peckham opposing.
M. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

Complainants below, appellants here, contend that the
Circuit Court had no jurisdiction because the decree of
February 2, 1891, was a final decree, and the court had no
power after the expiration of the term at which it was rendered to entertain the motion and petition and enter the order
of May 9, 1892, and the decree of September 6, 1892; and further, that the court had no jurisdiction to render affirmative
judgments in favor of the defendants against the complainants,
because no cross-bill had been filed and no proceedings had or
taken on which such judgments could properly be rendered
against the complainants. On the other hand, it is insisted
that the questions raised do not involve the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court in the sense in which the term is used in the hct

MEDDAUGH v. WILSOX.
Syllabus.

of March 3, 1891. Whether the decree of February 2, 1891,
was a final decree; whether the objection that no cross-bill
had 14een filed came too late; whether the court could proceed
in a summary way on petition; whether appearance and objection on the merits waived alleged irregularities; and whether
these or like matters might bring a case within the first class
named in the fifth section of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
26 Stat. 826, 827, we find it unnecessary to consider, as no
question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was certified
to this court for decision, and therefore, for the reasons given
in .AXaynar'd v. H'echt, ante, 324, the appeal must be

_Dismisied.

MEDDAUGH v. WILSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

lo. 10.

Argued October 10, 1893.-Decided January 22, 1894.

It is a general principle of law that a trust estate must bear the expense of
its administration.
Assignees in bankruptcy, although not in possession of the bankrupt's
property, are nevertheless required to look out for the interests of all,
and are entitled to compensation, the lack of possession being important
only in determining the amount of the compensation.
A corporation in Michigan was the owner of a large and valuable real estate.
Three successive mortgages on this property were created, and a large
amount of corporation bonds secured by them were issued. Suits being
begun for the foreclosure of these mortgages, a receiver was appointed
by the court to take possession of and hold all the mortgaged property.
The corporation was then adjudged to be a bankrupt. Assignees were
appointed, who appeared by counsel in the foreclosure suits and contested them. The property remained with the receiver, and never passed
into the possession of the assignees. Negotiations took place, looking
towards a sale of the property and a reorganization, which contemplated
that a certain proportion of shares in the reorganization should be delivered to W. In the course of the negotiations, the amount which the
assignees were entitled to receive, and the amount which should be paid
to their counsel, were determined, with the assent of all parties. W.
agreed to pay this sum to D. for them out of the moneys to be received
by him. These negotiations fell through. New negotiations then took

