OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

"The power of the general government over these remnants
of a race once powerful, now weak and diminished in numbers,
is necessary to their protection as well as to the safety of those
among whom they dwell. It must exist in that government,
because it never has existed anywhere else, because the theatre
of exercise is within the geographichl limits of the United
States, because it has never been denied, and because it alone
can enforce its laws on all the tribes."
We, therefore, answer the question certified, in the affirmative, that the offence committed was within the limits of the
reservation within the meaning of the act of Congress approved
March 3, 1885, so as to give the Federal courts jurisdiction of
the same, and our answer to that purport will be returned to
the court below; and that
* The motion to set aside the verdict andfor a new trial should
be denied.

MAXWELL LAND GRANT COMPANY v. DAWSON.
ERROR

TO THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE TERRITORY

OF

NEW

MEXICO.
No. 1065. Submitted January 5,1894. -Decideq

February 5, 1894.

It is unnecessary to decide whether under the civil law, as in force in New
Mexico in 1868, a written instrument was not necessary for the transfer of
real estate, (about which quwre,) as, if such a provision had previously
existed, it had been supplanted at that time by territorial enactments.
Under the most liberal construction of the civil law, a transfer of title to
real estate could not be effected without identification of the land, delimitation of the boundaries, and delivery of possession, all of which
were wanting in this case.
Certain loose parol statements and certain hearsay evidence are held to be
inadmissible in this action of ejectment, either to fix the boundaries of
the defendant's deed, or to show the character and extent of his alleged
adverse possession.
When the defendant in an action of ejectment sets up title under adverse
possession, it is competent for him to show that it was generally known
in the neighborhood that he was in possession of the disputed premises,
and was generally regarded as their owner.
When the description in the deed through which a plaintiff in ejectment

MAXWELL LAND GRANT CO. v. DAWSON.

587

Statement of the Case.

claims covers a large estate, as a whole, excepting from the grant such
tracts, "1parts of said estate," warranted not to exceed a stated number
of acres, "which the parties of the first part have heretofore sold and
conveyed," the burden of proof is on the plaintiff to show that the land
in suit does not come within the exception.
The New Mexico statute of limitations as to real actions, Comp. Laws
New Mexico, 1884, ยง 1881, operates when the period of limitation has expired, if set up and maintained by the defendant in an action of ejectment, to extinguish the right of the plaintiff, and to vest a complete title
in the defendant.

Tins was an action of ejectment brought by the plaintiff in
error in the District Court of the Fourth Judicial District of
New Mexico, to recover of the defendant the possession of a
large tract of land within what is known as the Beaubien and
Miranda, or Maxwell land grant.
The declaration was in the ordinary form of a declaration in
ejectment, averring the right of the plaintiff to the possession
of the entire Miaxwell grant, and the unlawful entry of the
defendant into that portion thereof situate in the county of
Colfax.
Defendant disclaimed as to all the land described in the
declaration, except a certain tract described in his first additional plea, as follows: "All the land in the valley or drainage
of the Vermejo River, in the county of Colfax, Territory of
New Mexico, within the following boundaries: Commencing
at the dam on said river, at the upper end of John B. Dawson's farm; thence running to a high point of rocks on the
north side of the Fermejo Caion; thence following along the
top of the divide west of Rail Cation to the head of Saltpeter
Caion; thence down along the top of the divide east of Saltpeter Cation, to a point on a line with John B. Dawson's rock
fence; thence following the line of said rock fence across the
Vermejo to the top of the divide between the Vermejo and
Van Bremmer Cation; thence following the top of said divide
to the head of Coal Cation, and thence along the top of the
divide east of Coal Cation to a point on said divide nearest the
place of beginning; thence to the place of beginning." He
further pleaded adverse possession of these lands for more
than ten years next before the commencement of the suit, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

that the plaintiff's right to sue for the same accrued more than
ten years prior thereto.
Plaintiff deraigned title from the original grantees through
Lucien B. Maxwell; but in the deed from'Maxwell and wife
to the Maxwell Land Grant and Railway Company of April
30, 1870, there was the following exception: "Excepting from
the operation of this conveyance such tracts of land, part of
the said estate hereby warranted not to exceed in the aggregate fifteen thousand acres, which the parties of the first part
have heretofore sold and conveyed by deeds duly recorded on
or prior to the 25th day of January, one thousand eight hundred
and seventy." All the subsequent deeds under which the plaintiff claimed, contained the same exception, though not exactly
in the same words.
Upon the conclusion of the plaintiff's case, defendant offered
evidence tending to show that he occupied under claim of
title, and was generally reputed to own a large tract of land,
described in his plea, the lower line of which was the projection, for a distance of about six miles east and west, of a stone
fence built by him across the valley of the Vermejo River, and
including within its east and west limits the entire of what
was known as the Coal and Rail Cafions and the upper waters
of the Lacey, Spring, and Saltpeter Caions, with the lands
and drainage incident thereto. The testimony upon the question of adverse possession, of which there was a large amount,
showed that defendant made use of the caions for the purpose
of ranging or pasturing cattle, horses, and hogs, and indicated
that from the year 1872 to 1883 he had an average of 125
horses, 200 cattle, and some hogs, which were turned loose in the
caions within the tract. He looked after them from time to
time, and if cattle belonging to other people were there, he turned
them out. There was also evidenQe tending to show that below him the valley of the Vermejo River was pastured by one
Lacey, and below him by one J. W. Curtis, and also by Miller
and Maulding. The testimony of Maulding himself tended to
show that he and Dawson and two others went into possession
of the land under a contract of purchase from Maxwell, and that
they were virtually tenants in common under this contract;

MAXWELL LAND GRANT CO. v. DAWSON.

589

I

Statement of the Case.

that after Maxwell put them into possession they divided up
the entire tract, which he undertook to sell them, each one
taking exclusive possession of his particular part.
There
seems to have been what the witness termed "a kind of a
bond for a deed," to which Maxwell and Curtis were parties,
but it was not produced, and testimony of its contents was
ruled out.
Defendant himself took the stand and testified that in 1867
Curtis, Maulding, and Miller came on to the Vermejo, and
told him "they had a contract," and claimed to have possession of the land from the dam which marked the starting
point of his (Dawson's) deed, down the river, to a place known
as the O'Donnell farm, with all that drainage and lands the
water would flow in, between these points and the Vermejo
River; that it included the laud claimed by him, the defendant; that they were residing upon a part of the land themselves, and that Maulding and Curtis told him to take possession
of the land he claimed, and on the line fixed by them as his
lower boundary he built a stone fence across the valley. He
also testified that in June, 1868, he had a conversation with
Lucien B. Maxwell in regard to the tract of land which he
claimed; that Maxwell knew he was in possession of it; that
the boundaries of the tract set forth in his plea were pointed
out by Maxwell, and that he paid $3700 for the land, though
he afterwards stated that he paid the money to Mr. Curtis,
who gave it to Maxwell. On cross-examination, he produced
a deed from Maxwell and wife to himself, bearing date January 7, 1869, in which, for a consideration of $3700, Maxwell
conveyed to him the property admitted in this suit to belong
to him, and described as follows: "All the land or ground
now suitable for farming or cultivating purposes in the valley
or drainage of the Vermejo River, county of Mora, Territory
of New Mexico, within the following boundaries, to wit: Beginning at a certain dam at the head of a certain ditch at the
right-hand point of rocks, from thence running down on the
north side of said river to a certain other pile of rocks, on a
knoll or elevation, with some bushes near thereto; thence
running very near southward across said river to a piflon tree

OCTOBER TERif, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

to the right of a ridge, near a wash, which tree is marked
with a letter ' L;' thence running up said river on the south
side to the place of beginning; containing about acres,
more or less." This deed he claimed to have received by mail
some time in 1869, and admitted to have shown to one Morley,
who, in 1871, came to his house, under orders from the president of the plaintiff company, to survey the land. He appears
to have entered upon the land the year before the deed was
given, to have made numerous improvements, such as houses,
orchards, and fences, and to have put the land under cultivation by means of irrigating ditches. All these improvements,
except some cattle fences, were put upon the land described in
the deed. Upon redirect examination, he stated that when he
first came on the Vermejo, in the early part of 1868 or 1869,
passing through, Curtis and Maulding told him that they had
a contract with Maxwell for a piece of land there, beginning
at the dam, and running down the river to the lower end of
what was known as the O'Donnell farm, with all the drainage,
with the water that flowed from between this dam and the
lower end of the O'Donnell farm; that they asked him, defendant, if he wanted some of it. "I studied a good while
and said, ' If you will let me have the upper part,' which they
agreed to do. . . . The contract which they had was for
a block of land. . . . Curtis and Maulding told me that
they had this whole drainage belonging to this block of land,
and this was my part; and I talked with them often about it,
and I talked with others." He further testified that when
Maxwell pointed out to him the boundaries of the land, they
were down at a stage station some four miles away, though
they could see the prominent points of the tract from where
they were, and that this was six months before he received:
his deed.
The case was tried by a jury, and a general verdict of not
guilty returned, upon which final judgment was entered. The
case was then carried to the Supreme Court of the Territory, by which the judgment of the District Court was
affirmed. Plaintiff thereupon sued out a writ of error from
this court.

MAXWELL LAND GRANT CO. v. DAWSON.

591

Statement of the Case.

The third assignment of error, on which the case turns in
this court, will be found in the margin.'
IIII. In admitting the testimony of J. B. Dawson as to oral statements
of Maulding and Curtis touching their contract for purchase of a tract of
land as follows, to wit:
" They told me that they had a contract for a Fiece of land there, beginning at this dam that has been described, running down to the river to the
lower end of what is known as the O'Donnell farm, with all the drainage
of the water that flowed from between this dam and the lower end of the
O'Donnell farm. They asked me if I wanted some of it. I studied a good
while and said, ' If you will let me have the upper part,' which they agreed
to."
1"Curtis and Maulding told me that this whole drainage belonged
to this block of land, and this was my part; and I talked with them often
about it, and I talked with others. I talked with Maxwell, and Maxwell
and myself were frontiersmen at this time when I talked with them at the
stage station, and he observed that I did not get as much land."
Also in admitting the testimony of other parties touching Dawson's
ownership of and claim to the land in question, to wit: "Q. Have you ever
heard the people other than Dawson residing in that vicinity speak of this
land as belonging to any one? A. Yes, sir. Q. State the names of the
persons that they always spoke of it as belonging to. A. They have always
spoken of it as belonging to Mr. John Dawson. Q. How long have you
heard the people in that vicinity speak of it in that way ? A. Since I have
been in the country."
. . . "1Q. While you were in the Vermejo for that year or two, did
you have any conversation with the people residing in that neighborhood
as to who owned this tract of land that I read you the description of ? A.
Yes, sir. Q. Was that tract of land spoken of as belonging to auy one ?
A. Yes, sir. Q. As belonging to whom ? A. Mr. Dawson's, and also of
Miller, Maulding, and Curtis. Q. Have you heard them speak of Miller
and Maulding's land, too ? A. Yes, sir. Q. Where were they with reference to this tract of land I read you the description of ? A. They were
further down the creek. Q. Did you ever hear the people there speak of
Dawson's south boundary line, as to where it was ? A. Yes, sir. Q. What
was it, according to their statements ? A. They said it was above
Lacey's ranch, adjoining Dawson's land. At that time it belonged to De
Graftenreid. Q. During the time you were there, did you hear the people
residing in that vicinity talk about Dawson's south boundary line? A. Yes,
sir. Q. What did they speak of as his south boundary line ? A. They said
he was going to fence in his portion of the land from this stone fence, when
it was found he was going to continue the stone fence to the high point to
the divide."
"A. He claimed from the dam on the Vermejo above his house
to a rock fence below his house, and all drainages from either side."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

Xr. T. B. Catron,and Mr. Frank Springer for plaintiff in
error.
Also the following: "Q. Was that land ever spoken of as the land of
any one? A. Yes, sir. Q. Of whom? A. John B. Dawson." . .
. . . "Q. Have you ever heard the people in that neighborhood other
than Dawson speak of any one as being the owner of this tract of land? A.
Yes, sir. Q. Of whom did they speak as the owner of the land? A. As
Mr. Dawson's."
Did you hear any neighbors around there speak of this
* * * "Q.
tract of land as the property of any one? A. Yes, sir; I have heard a great
many speak of it. Q. They spoke of it as whose property? A. John B.
Dawson's."

- . . "Q. Did you ever hear any of these people speak of this land as
belonging to any one? A. Yes, sir. Q. They have spoken of it as belonging to whom? A. To Mr. Dawson."
* . * "A. I told them that my father claimed all the drainage of the
Vermejo River that was above his lower line, and the heads of the caions
- all the drainage above his lower line that come in on the property of the
Horseshoe property, including his own place."
.
"A. It was the upper tract of this purchase or the upper part
of this purchase that Maxwell made to us on the Vermejo River."
"A. I talked with my neighbors and we spoke of his upper
tract. We often talked about this piece of land and Dawson owning this
piece of land with its drainage."
. ", Q. While this defendant was in possession of this land in 1868,
did Maxwell have actual knowledge of that possession? A. Yes, sir."
. . . "Q. Did you have any conversation with any one in that neighborhood as to who claimed to own this tract of land? A. Yes, sir; I have
heard several say who owned it. Q. Who did they speak of as owning it?
A. They said Mr. Dawson was the owner of it."
Also the following: "Q. Do you know whether Maxwell knew that
Dawson was in possession of this tract of land? A. He knew that he
was."

"Q. What land did these people claim to have possession of at
that time? A. They claimed to have possession of the land from the dam
that now belongs to me down the river to a place known as the O'Donnell
farm, to the lower end of the O'Donnell farm, with all the drainage and
lands the water would flow in between these points to the Vermejo River."
"Q. Did Maxwell know that you were in possession of that
* **
tract of land? A. Yes, sir."
. . . "Q. What was to be the extent of that southern line? A. There
was an extension from the east end, across Lacey Cafion, across Saltpeter
Caion to the top of the divide of Saltpeter Cailon and the waters flowing to
the east; and the other end, an extension from the rock fence across Lacey
Caion to the top of the divide between Lacey Caion and the Van Bremmer

M1AXWELL LANbD GRANT CO. v. DAWSON.

593

Argument for Defendant in Error.

.3'. Andr'ieus A. Jones for defendant in error, to the third
assignment of error.
It is apparent from a reading of the deed that the description is vague and uncertain, unless evidence aliunde is permitted to supplement the language used. If this deed had
been permitted to remain in evidence without any explanation,
it would undoubtedly have prejudiced the defendant's case
before the jury. It was therefore essential for the defendant
to explain why he did not claim the Van Bremmer Caion and
why he claimed that the deed covered the land in controversy.
He could only do this by giving his conversations with Curtis
and Maulding in regard to their contract with Maxwell.
Whether the contract ever existed, or actually included the
land in controversy, was immaterial. If Dawson was informed
that it did, believed that it did, and acted upon this belief, proof
of anything else was unnecessary. When counsel for plaintiff
introduced the deed in evidence, he certainly knew that an explanation of its contents on redirect examination would be
necessary, and his act in introducing the deed necessitated the
introduction of the very evidence to which objection is now
made.
The testimony in regard to the conversations with Maxwell
was introduced for the purpose of showing that the then
owner of the Maxwell land grant had actual knowledge of
Dawson's claim and possession, and that at the time Lucien B.
Maxwell conveyed the Maxwell land grant to the Maxwell
Land Grant and Railway Company, the land in controversy
in this suit was in the adverse possession of the defendant. It
is true that this conversation occurred about four miles from
the land about which they were talking, but the testimony
shows that the prominent points and ridges on Dawson's place
could be seen from that place. Dawson's tract of land is in
the foot hills, and the country to the south where the stage
station was, is an open prairie, and the prominent points on
Caion. Q. Do you know why that line was established there at all? A.
Yes, sir. Q. Why? A. To divide my property from the next property
below."
VOL. cL-38

OCTOBER TERMH, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the earth's surface, of which there are many, could be plainly
seen not only at the stage station, but for a number of miles
further south and east of that place. During this conversation,
Maxwell and Dawson certainly had in mind the identical tract
now claimed by Dawson, and it was unnecessary that they
should have been upon the land talked about in order to
establish the boundaries of their respective possessions, but as
a matter of fact they were on the larger tract contracted to
Curtis, iMaulding, and Miller, a part of which was then in the
possession of Dawson.
Mit. JUSTicE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The controversy in this case relates to a tract of land within
what is known as the Maxwell land grant, to a portion of
which, about 1000 acres, described in the deed from Maxwell
and wife to Dawson, it is admitted the defendant has a good
title. Defendant, however, claims title to about 20,000 acres
lying outside of the boundaries of the tract admitted to belong
to him, which is the property in dispute. The case is before
us upon certain errors assigned to the admission of testimony,
and to the charge of the court.
(1) The third assignment of error is taken to the admission
of the testimony of Dawson as to the parol statements of
Maulding and Curtis touching their contract for the purchase
of the land, which included that in controversy. The court
below held that there was no error in the admission of this
testimony, because, under the civil law, land could be conveyed by parol, accompanied by delivery of possession; and
that it was immaterial whether the statements of Maulding
and Curtis were properly admitted or not, because Dawson
had testified that be had conversations with Maxwell, the
party from whom they claimed to have purchased, and that
Maxwell pointed out the boundaries of the land he would
receive under his agreement with Maulding, Miller, and Curtis,
who were then in possession, and so recognized by Maxwell
under his sale to them.

MAXWELL LAND GRANT CO. v. DAWSON.

595

Opinion of the Court.

We think the court erred in this particular. In the first
place, we are not prepared to coincide fully in its opinion that,
under the civil law as in force in New Mexico in 1868, no
written instrument was necessary for the transfer of title to
real estate. To justify us in upholding such a radical departure from the existing methods of land transfer in this country
from its earliest settlement, we think that it should clearly
appear, not only that no written instrument was required by
the usages of the civil law, but that the oral transfer was
accompanied by all the-customary formalities prescribed by
that law for the identification of the land and delivery of possession. The question whether an oral transfer of land was
recognized as valid by the law of Mexico was not argued
upon the hearing of this case, and may be open to some doubt.
There appears to be a diversity of opinion upon the point.
Upon the one hand, the Supreme Court of California, which
State also inherited the civil law from Mexico, has uniformly
held that a conveyance of land resting solely upon parol was
void by that law. In Hoen, v. Simmons, 1 California, 119, it
is said that by the Pecopilacion de las Andias, Law 29, Liber
8, Title 13, a code of the sixteenth century, every sale of real
estate was required to be made before the .Esribano(Notary)
of the place where the contract was entered into; and if there
were no Escribano, before the Judge of First Instance; and
these officers were required to furnish a copy and statement
of the writings and contracts made before them, with the day,
month, and year in which they were made, the names of the
seller and purchaser, the property sold or exchanged, and the
price. In the opinion of the court in that case it is said:
"There has never been a time since the adoption of the .Fuero
Juzgo," (a Visigothic code of the seventh century,) "in which
lands could be conveyed under Spanish or Mexican law, without an instrument in writing-unless it was, perhaps, in the
case of an executed contract, where corporeal possession was
delivered at the very time of the sale by actual entry upon
the premises, and the doing of certain acts analogous to the
live'y of seizi at common law." The question was again
fully considered in the case of Hfayes v. Bona, 7 California,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

153. It was contended in that case that the civil law, so far
as it required transfers of land to be made in writing, was
never extended to California; and even if it were, it never
had any force or practical operation there; that the condition
of the country, its illiterate population, together with the fact
there were no Escribanos, or Judges of the First Instance,
residing in San Francisco, warranted the assumption that the
law was never regarded as authoritative, and that evidence of
a custom of conveyance existing for many years, by which
these requisitions of the law seem to have been disregarded,
was sufficient to warrant the court in holding that controicts
for the sale of land were in no way controlled by it. "It
may be admitted," said the court, "that there is some doubt
whether this law was in force in California. From what we
can learn, it was a fiscal law, and extended over all the States
and Territories of Mexico. That it fell somewhat into disuse,
there is no doubt; but, so far as we are informed, contracts
for the sale of land, by the custom of the country, were required to be in writing; and, although all the forms prescribed
were not strictly followed, still it was necessary that the
instrument should contain the names of the parties, the things
sold, the date of the transfer, and the price paid.
We have been always willing to extend the greatest liberty
to contracts executed before the acquisition of California by
the United States, and to uphold them, if possible, where
there were any equities existing. But to go further, and
extend the rule to verbal contracts for the sale of land, or
conveyances like the present, would open the door to stupendous frauds and unsettle every title in the State." See also
Stafford v. Lick, 10 California, 12; Merle v. Mathews, 26
California, 455.
It will be observed in this connection, however, that the
court relies largely upon the extract from the 1ecopilacion
which appears to have embodied a system of laws applicable
to all the Spanish possessions in the Indies. The law referred
to seems to have been a mere fiscal regulation, designed for
the purpose of securing to the government its alcabald, or
excise tax upon the transfer of land, rather than for the pro-

MAXWELL LAND GRANT C0.

v. DAWSON.

597

Opinion of the Court.

tection of the parties to such transfer. And as there seem to
have been no Eseribanosor Judges of the First Instance in New
M exico, and no tax upon land transfers, it is very doubtful
whether this law was ever enforced there. From Schmidt's
Civil Law of Spain and Mexico, published in New Orleans in
1851, three years after the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, under
which New Mexico and California were ceded to the United
States, (book third, title 3, "Contract of sale,") it would appear that no distinction was made between personal and real
property, and by article 596, "the sale is perfect from the
moment the parties have agreed as to the thing which is to be
sold, the price and other particulars," although by article 598
"the sale is not considered complete, when it is stipulated, at
the time of making it, that it shall be reduced to writing, until
that stipulation is complied with."
It is also said, in the useful and exhaustive work of Mr.
Hall upon Mexican Law, page 489, that there was no statute
of frauds in Spain or Mexico, and that a verbal sale of real
He also speaks of the public writing,
estate was valid.
(escriturapublica,) stated by earlier authors to be essential to
the sale of real estate, as being a mere fiscal law, created for
the purpose of collecting the aleabald, or tax on sales, and
that the law did not declare that sales made otherwise should
be null and void. "Sales of real estate or contracts in relation
thereto, made in the territory ceded by Mexico to the United
States, and subsequent to the concession, could not possibly
have been affected by such a fiscal law. There was no law in
force in the United States authorizing the collection of an
alcabald,and no officer had power to collect such an impost.
Such a fiscal law could not have been carried into execution in
said Territory." See also Devwll v. Choppin, 15 Louisiana,
566; Gonzales v. Sanchez, 4 Martin, N. S. 657. Important
changes were, however, made in the law of Mexico subsequent
to the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and by the Civil Code of
1871 of the Federal District and the Territory of Lower
California, which also seems to have been adopted by many of
the Mexican States, it was provided, (art. 832,) that "the
division of immovable property is void, if it is not made by

OCTOBER TERMf, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

public writing;" and (art. 3056) that "the contract of purchase and sale (compra-venta)requires no special formality to
give it validity, unless it relates to immovable property." By
art. 3057, "the sale of an immovable, whose value does not
exceed $500, may be made by private instrument, which has
to be signed by the vendor and the vendee before two known
witnesses." By art. 3059 this instrument was to be executed
in duplicate, one for the vendor and one for the vendee, and if
the value of the immovable exceeds $500, the sale shall be
reduced to a public writing.
In a subsequent chapter a system of public registration is
provided, somewhat similar to our own. These provisions are
also carried into the Civil Code of December 14, 1883.
It is unnecessary, however, for the purpose of this case, to
express an opinion whether under the civil law a transfer of
land was valid without a written instrument, since we are of
the opinion that the civil law in this particular had been supplanted by territorial enactments.
While no statute of frauds appears to have been adopted in
New Mexico as early as 1868, the Compiled Laws of 1865,
art. 18, c. 44, required all conveyances of real estate to be subscribed by the person transferring his title or interest, (sec. 4,)
and to be acknowledged and certified by a public officer
(see. 5). Although there is nothing in this chapter saying in
so many words that no transfer can be made without an instrument in writing, the careful provisions made for the execution and acknowledgment of conveyances of real estate
indicate very clearly that written instruments were considered
essential.
But, however this may be, and giving full force and effect
to all that is claimed for the civil law inthis particular, it is
very clear that there was no such identification of the land,
delimitation of the boundaries, and delivery of possession as
were necessary, under the most liberal construction of the
civil law, to convey a title. The testimony as to any contract
which Maulding and Curtis may have had with Maxwell with
regard to the large "block of land," of which a portion
claimed by the defendant was a part, was not only hearsay,

MAXWELL LAIND GRANT CO. v. DAWSON.

599

Opinion of the Court.

but hearsay of the loosest description.

Taking Dawson's own

version of it, all it amounted to was that Maulding and Curtis
told him they had a contract with Maxwell for the purchase

of this property, and that he might take a part of it. Neither
the property which they purchased nor that which they allowed Dawson to take appears to have been identified in any
way beyond the general statement that it included the drainage of the Vermejo River between certain points. If this
testimony as to the contract between Miller, Mauldilig, and
Curtis on the one part, and Maxwell on the other, was entitled
to any weight whatever, we think the court should have admitted the deeds from Maxwell and wife to Miller and Maulding and to Joel W. Curtis, showing the lands actually conveyed
to them, as having a tendency to contradict, or at least to
qualify, their general statements. These deeds appear to have
been ruled out upon the ground that defendant could not be
bound by recitals in deeds between other parties; but, as both
the grantors and grantees in these deeds were the parties from
whom Dawson himself claimed title, it was competent to show
definitely what land was conveyed by Maxwell to Miller,
Maulding, and Curtis, from whom Dawson claimed title.
Nor was this error cured by the admissions of counsel as to
the contents of these deeds, since the deeds themselves were
excluded, and the admission was simply for the purpose of
enabling the appellate court to pass upon their relevancy in
reviewing the action of the trial court in excluding them.
The court below also held that whether the statements of
Maulding, Miller, and Curtis, as to their contract with Maxwell, were or were not properly admitted in evidence, was
immaterial, from the fact that defendant Dawson further testified that he had conversations with Maxwell, the party from
whom they claimed to have purchased, and that Maxwell
pointed out the boundaries of the land he would receive under
his agreement with Maulding, Miller, and Curtis, who were
then in possession. All this conversation amounted to was
that Dawson met Maxwell in June, 1868, at a stage station,
some four miles from the land in question; that Maxwell
pointed out to him the boundaries of the land he would receive

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

under his agreement with Maulding, Miller, and Curtis; and
that some of the permanent objects on the land in question
were visible from the spot where they stood. There was no
attempt in this conversation to identify the land, to fix the
boundaries, or to deliver possession. All he said in this connection was that "the boundaries were what you read in that
description there," meaning thereby his plea. There was
nothing in the nature of a livery of seizin, which the Supreme
Court 6f California pronounced to be essential to an oral transfer of lands under the civil law. No weight whatever should
be given to testimony of this description in connection with
the transf6r of lands. It is incredible that any man should
have paid $3700 for such an indefinite purchase of real estate.
A more probable explanation of the transaction was given by
Dawson upon his cross-examination, when he produced a deed
from Maxwell and wife to himself, bearing date June 7, 1869,
in which, for the consideration of $3700, Maxwell conveyed
to him the property admitted in this suit to belong to him.
As the location of the dam mentioned in this deed as the
upper boundary of the tract conveyed, is admitted, and the
pifion tree, which marked its lower boundary "to the right
of a ridge, near a wash," was admitted by Dawson to have
been seen by him when he first went there, and was on the
southwest side of the Vermejo River, near the travelled road
up and down the river, and only a little over a hundred yards
from the bank of the river, at the southwest end of the stone
fence built by the defendant to mark his lower boundary line,
there was, and could have been, no uncertainty as to the upper
and lower boundaries of his tract. The "pile of rocks, on a
knoll or elevation, with some bushes near thereto," to which
the line ran from the dam, Dawson swears he never found,
and it must be admitted that the side lines of the tract are
very vague, and justify the remark mad6 by Morley, the surveyor employed by the plaintiff, when he was shown the deed
from Maxwell and wife to Dawson, that there was not a man
in the world who could take the deed and survey the land.
From the fact, however, that the line was run from a pile of
rocks on a knoll or elevation, which could not have been far

MIAXWELL LAND GRANT CO. v. DAWSON.

601

Opinion of the Court.

from the dam, southward across the river to a pifon tree, and
from this tree up the river on the south side to the place of
beginning, it is quite evident that it was never intended to
include the vast territory claimed by the defendant in his plea,
and that the land probably contemplated by the parties was
the immediate drainage of the Vermejo River, between the
dam and the pifon tree, including all the land between the
watersheds on either side of the river, with perhaps grazing
privileges over the surrounding territory, which, according to
the custom of the country, seems to have been incident to the
ownership of the water. If he had purchased all the land he
now claims, it is very improbable he would have accepted a
deed with this limited and ambiguous description. If he has
any title to the territory claimed in his plea, it must be a title
by adverse possession. This was evidently the theory upon
which he tried his case, though after the deed was introduced,
against his objection, he apparently shifted his ground and
endeavored to reconcile his claim with the vague description
in his deed. It is impossible, however, under any theory of
construction, to give it that effect. While possession of the
land under the deed would not absolutely conclude him from
showing an adverse possession of the much larger tract claimed
by him in his plea, the presumption is against him; and, if
his testimony as to such possession were reconcilable with his
position as grantee under the deed, the theory that he held
under the deed, and not by virtue of an adverse possession,
should be adopted. This presumption is strengthened by the
fact that he appears always to have claimed under his deed
up to the time this suit was begun, when, by the filing of his
plea, plaintiff was first apprised of the nature and extent of
his claim. His disclaimer of holding under the deed is the
more apparent from the fact that he made no mention of it
in his examination-in-chief ; that he exhibited it to his son as
the foundation of his title, and produced it to Morley, the
plaintiff's agent, as the basis of a survey, when Morley told
him it was impossible to locate the land by it. In another
part of his testimony he admits that he frequently claimed
that, under the deed from Maxwell he was entitled to the

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

drainage of the Vermejo River between the dam and the stone
fence.
While defendant may have gained a title by adverse possession for ten years, it is difficult to believe that when he went
into possession he claimed anything more than the tract covered by the deed from Maxwell, though, having command of
the water for a certain distance, he may have treated this as
giving him the control of the grazing privileges over a much
larger extent of territory.
Under no theory of the case, however, were the loose talks
which the defendant had with Miller, Maulding, and Curtis,
or with Maxwell, admissible either to fix the boundaries of
the deed, or to throw light upon the character and extent of
his alleged adverse possession. They were calculated to prejudice the plaintiff's case and to leave an impression upon the
jury that defendant's claim of adverse possession was justified
by a contract with Maulding, Miller, and Curtis of which there
was no legal evidence. The admission of such testimony would
create a most dangerous precedent and open up possibilities of
fraud that might operate to the unsettlement of great numbers
of titles.
It is insisted, however, that this evidence was admissible to
supplement the vague and uncertain language of the deed ; that
it was essential for defendant to explain why he did not claim
the Van Bremmer CaAon, and why he did claim the land in
controversy; that he could only do this by relating his conversations with Curtis and Maulding in regard to their contract with Maxwell, and that the question at issue was not the
actual contents of this contract, but the good faith of Dawson's claim to the land in controversy. The question, however,
was one of actuality and continuity of possession rather than
of good faith; and even if the good faith of the defendant had
been material to this inquiry, it is difficult to see how loose
conversations with parties, who, whatever they claimed, were
not shown to have had a contract with Maxwe.ll, tended to
throw any light upon this question. The difficulty both with
this testimony and with that respecting the conversations with
Maxwell is that it was likely to lead the jury to believe that

MAXWELL LAND GRA-NT CO. v. DAWSON.

603

Opinion of the Court.

defendant had a title other than that arising from adverse
possession.
(2) There was no error in admitting testimony to the effect
that the land claimed by Dawson was generally reputed to
belong to him. Claiming as he did by open, notorious, and
adverse possession of these lands for a period sufficient under
the statutes of New Mexico to give him a good title, it was
competent to prove that it was generally understood in the
neighborhood, not only that he pastured his cattle upon these
lands, but that he did so under a claim of ownership, and that
his claim and the character of his possession were such that he
was generally reputed to be the owner. While this testimony
would be irrelevant in support of a paper title, it bad an important bearing upon the notoriety of his possession. Sparrowr
v. Hovey, 44 Michigan, 63, 64. It may be that, as the tract
upon which Dawson lived was admitted to be his property,
and the question was one of boundaries or extent of ownership, the testimony may not have been of much value, but we
cannot say it was inadmissible. It was a question for the jury
to say not only whether his adverse possession, but whether
this repute of ownership extended beyond the prQperty included in his deed from Maxwell.
(3) Plaintiff has no just reason to complain of the instruction
of the court that the documents introduced by it were sufficient to vest in it the title to the land in controversy, unless
they found from the evidence that the plaintiff bad failed to
prove that the land in controversy, or some portion thereof,
was not the whole or part of the 15,000 acres of land excepted.
in the conveyances under which plaintiff claimed title; or in
the further instruction that the burden of proof was on the
plaintiff to show that it had the legal title to, and the right of
possession of, all the lands in controversy; and, unless they
found from the evidence that the lands in controversy were
included in and not excepted from the deeds of conveyance
under which plaintiff claimed title, plaintiff could not recover.
Under a certain deed from Maxwell and wife to the Maxwell
Land Grant and Railway Company, and in all the subsequent

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

deeds under which plaintiff claims title, there was an exception
of such tracts of land "part of the said estate, hereby warranted not to exceed in the aggregate 15,000 acres, which the
parties of the first part have heretofore sold and conveyed,"
etc., and the question was whether the plaintiff was bound to
show that the laids claimed by him in this suit had not theretofore been conveyed, or whether the burden was upon the
defendant to show that they had been so conveyed. Ordinarily the burden of proof is upon the party claiming the affirmative of the issue. There are, however, certain exceptions to
this general rule. Bearing in mind that the burden was upon
the plaintiff to show its title tc the identical land claimed by
the defendant, it is manifest that, as the plaintiff did not take
*title to 15,000 acres of the Maxwell land grant by reason of
the fact that its grantors had already conveyed this amount of
land, it was incumbent upon it to show that the land it sued
to recover had not been previously conveyed, and, hence, that
it had taken title to it under its deeds.
An exception in a grant is said to withdraw from its operation some part or parcel of the thing granted, which, but for the
exception, would have passed to the grantee under the general
description. The effect in such cases in respect to the thing
excepted is as though it had never been included in the deed.
If, for example, a person should convey to another a block of
land, excepting therefrom a certain lot previously conveyed,
to sustain ejectment for any particular lot, it would be necessary for the plaintiff to show that it was not the lot which had
*been previously conveyed. There is a general rule, applicable
both to conveyances and statutes, that where there is an exception in the general granting or enacting clause, the party
relying upon such general clause must in pleading state the
general clause, together with the exception, and must also
show by the testimony that he is not within the exception.
Thus in United States v. Cook., 17 Wall. 168, it was held that
if the ingredients of a criminal offence could not be accurately
described, if the exception in the statute were omitted, an indictment founded upon the statute must allege enough to show
that the accused was not within the exception; but that, if the

MAXWELL LAND GRANT CO. "v. DAWSON.

605

Opinion of the Court.

language of the statute defining the offence were so entirely
separable from the exception that the ingredients constituting
the offence might be accurately defined without reference to
the exception, the indictment might omit such reference -the
matter contained in the exception being matter of defence,
and to be shown by the accused. See also Steel v. Smith, 1
B. & Ald. 95, 99; T avasour v. Ormrod, 6 B. & 0. 430; Comnonwealth v. Hfart, 11 Cush. 130; Commonwealth v. Jones,
121 Mass. 57; State v. Abbey, 29 Vermont, 60, 66; -Myers v.
Carr, 12 Michigan, 63; Zynch v. People, 16 Michigan, 472.
But, as said by Chief Justice Cooley of the Supreme Court of
Michigan in Osburn v. Lovell, 36 Michigan, 246, 250: "This
is not always a rule of pleading; it is sometimes a rule of evidence only. It goes no further in any case than to require
the party relying upon the exception to present the facts in
such form as the case requires; and this may or may not be
by special pleadings. .
.
Whether special pleadings are
necessary must be determined by other considerations and by
the general rules of pleading."
But the exact question raised by the exception in this case
was considered by this court in Hawkins v. Barney's Lessee, 5
Pet. 457, where a patent was issued for 50,000 acres of land,
and by subsequent conveyance the patentee sold small parts of
said land, and particularly one parcel of 11,000 acres, within
the bounds of the original survey; and it was held, that to
sustain an action of ejectment it was necessary for the plaintiff to show that the land he sought to recover was without
the limits of the tract shown to have been conveyed away by
himself. The court quoted with apparent approval the case of
Taylor, v. Taylor, 3 A. K. Marsh. 18, 20, in which the Supreme
Court of Kentucky held that a plaintiff in ejectment, claiming
under a deed conveying the balance of a tract of 14,000 acres
of land, must show what that balance was, and where situated,
and that it included the land in contest. Also the case of
.3adison'sHeirs v. Owens, 6 Littell, 281, where, to recover in
ejectment, it was held to be necessary for the patentee to show
that the defendant was not within the bounds of certain
claims excluded from the language of his patent. See also

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Guthrie v. Lewis' Devisees, 1 T. B. Mon. 142, in which a similar ruling was made.
These cases are precisely in point, and show that the court
was guilty of no error prejudicial to the plaintiff.
Defendant, however, claims that, as the plaintiff made no
effort to prove himself without the exception, the judgment of
the court ought, irrespective of every other consideration, to
be affirmed. It is true that the court may have erred in not
granting the motion of the defendant made at the close of the
plaintiff's case to direct a verdict for him upon that ground, as
there does not seem to have been any testimony offered by the
plaintiff, in making his original case, to show that the land in
controversy was not within the exception; but the defendant
is in no condition now to take advantage of it, as the instruction actually given was given upon the request of the defendant himself. While the plaintiff has no right to complain of
this instruction, it does not necessarily follow that defendant
is entitled to an affirmance of the judgment because the charge
of the court was not sufficiently favorable to him in that particular, when such charge was made upon his own request.
In putting in its rebutting testimony plaintiff did put in evidence the deeds of Maxwell and wife to Maulding and Curtis,
but they were not offered for the purpose of proving itself
without the exception, but for the purpose of contradicting
the testimony of defendant as to his conversations with Maulding and Curtis, and it is too late for it now to claim that they
were offered for the purpose of proving itself without the
exception.
(4) Plaintiff also complained of the instruction of the court
upon the subject of the statute of limitation, namely, that if
the plaintiff permitted defendant to take possession of the
tract, claiming all of it as his own, and to continue such possession adversely under such claim of title for an uninterrupted
period of ten years or more, such possession would ripen into
a right and title in the defendant, and forever afterwards prevent the plaintiff from taking possession of the property. We
think, however, the instruction complained of was justified by
the language of the statute, which provides (Comp. Laws New

SHAUER v. ALTERTON.
Syllabus.

Mexico of 1884, ยง 1881) that "no person, or persons, nor their
children, or heirs, shall have, sue, or maintain any action, or
.
but
suit, either in law, or in equity, for any land .
comtheir
right
to
after
his,
her,
or
ten
years
next
within
.
accrued, and
.
such suit shall have .
mence
.
.
shall be had and sued within teu years
that all suits
next after the title or cause of action, or suits, accrued or
fallen, and at no time after the ten years shall have passed."
Under similar statutes it has been held by this court that the
lapse of time not only bars the remedy, but extinguishes the
right, and vests a complete title in the adverse holder. See
Lejingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Croxall v. Shererd, 5
Wall. 268, 289; Probst v. Presbyterian Church, 129 U. S. 182.
In the last case this court held, construing the statute of New
Mexico here in question, that the defendant was entitled to an
instruction that an uninterrupted occupancy of land by a person, who in fact has no title thereto, for a period of ten years
adversely to the true owner, operates to extinguish the title of
the true owner thereto and vest 'the title of the property absolutely in the occupier.
But for the error of the court specified in the third assignment, in admitting the testimony of the defendant as to the
statements of Miller and Curtis, the judgment of the court
below must be
-Reversed, and the case remanded with instructions to set
aside the verdict and grant a new trial.

SHAUER v. ALTERTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH DAROTA.
No. 174. Argued and submitted December 19, 20, 1893. -Decided

February 5, 1894.

An assignment of error, based upon the exclusion by the trial court of an
answer given in the deposition of a witness to a particular question, will
be disregarded by this court, if the answer or the full substance of it is
not set forth in the record in an appropriate form for examination.

