HICKORY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

HICKORY o. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKCANSAS.
No. 841. Submitted October 19, 1893. -Decided January 15, 1894.
The genuineness of disputed handwriting cannot, as a general rule, be determined by comparing it with other handwriting of te party.
A writing specially prepared for purpose of comparison is not admissible.
If a paper, admitted to be in the handwriting of the party or to have been
subscribed by him, is in evidence for some other purpose in the cause,
the paper in question may be compared with it by the jury; but if
offered for the sole purpose of comparison, it is not admissible.
The right of a person indicted for a capital offence to have delivered to
him, under Rev. Stat. § 1033, at least two days before the trial, a list
of the witnesses to be produced, may be waived by sitting by and listening to the testimony in chief of a witness not on such list, before
inquiring whether his name had been furnished to defendant.
Proof of contradictory statements by one's own witness, voluntarily called
and not a party, is in general not admissible, although the party calling him may have been surprised by them; but he may show that the
facts were not as stated, although this may tend incidentally to discredit
the witness.
Whether or not a particular homicide is committed in repulsion of an
attack, and, if so, justifiably, are questions of fact, not necessarily
dependent upon the duration or quality of the reflection by which the
act may have been preceded.
Allen v. United States, 150 U. S. 151, followed in condemning the doctrine as
impracticable, which tests the question whether a person on trial for
murder is entitled to excuse on the ground of self-defence, or exceeded
the limits of the exercise of that right, or acted upon unreasonable
grounds, or in the heat of passion, by the deliberation with which a
judge expounds the law to a jury, or the jury determines the facts, or
with which judgment is entered and carried into execution.
TMatter excepted to should be brought to the attention of the court before
the retirement of the jury.
When several distinct propositions are given, and the exception covers all
of them, it cannot be sustained if any one of them is correct.

S m DowNING, alias Sam Hickory, and Tom Shade, two
Cherokees, were indicted and tried for the murder of Yoseph
Wilson, a United States deputy marshal, the trial resulting in

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

the acquittal of Shade and the conviction of Hickory, who,
being sentenced to death, prosecuted this writ of error. As
stated in the brief for the government, Hickory admitted that
he killed Wilson, but claimed that he was the attacking party;
that the marshal came to arrest him for a violation of the
liquor laws, and after the arrest, and while he was proceeding
toward his house to get a saddle, the marshal began firing at
him; that he ran into the house and an affray occurred there,
in which there was shooting by both, until the marshal was
killed; that ho concealed the body in a ravine, where it was
found two or three days later; then hid in the neighborhood
for awhile, and wandered about until he was arrested among
the Osage Indians. One Carey testified that he went with
the marshal to show him where Hickory lived, and that it was
arranged that he should remain in the woods while Wilson
went to the house and made the arrest; that after he had
arrested Hickory he would fire his pistol to notify Carey that
he had done so, so that Carey could meet him at a designated
point; that in about half an hour Carey heard a shot, followed
by several others.
There was some evidence that Wilson's skull had been
fractured; also that Wilson's horse was found dead, with his
throat cut, lying id an opposite direction from the body; and
an, attempt to show that Wilson, after being wounded by
Hickory, was finally killed with an axe by Shade.
A letter written in the Cherokee alphabet, claimed to be in
Hickory's handwriting, to Ollie Hickory, alias Williams, was put
in evidence and marked "A," and was interpreted as follows:
"October 15th, 1891. Ollie: I write you a few lines. You
must never disclose how this is about Tom Shade. Just say
that I was the only one that did it. You must never tell anybody that he killed the horse and all that he done. I tell you
you must not. That is all now. I write in haste. Sam."
The letter was identified as in Hickory's handwriting, although he denied it, and was admitted under exception on the
part of the defendants. Joseph Shade, a witness for the defence, produced a paper on cross-examination, not relevant in
itself, which was marked "X," which he testified was in Hick-

HICKORY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

ory's handwriting, and which seems to have been put in evidence without objection.
An expert in Cherokee handwriting testified on behalf of
the defendants, on comparisons of Exhibits "A" and "X,"
that they were written by different persons, and that the only
resemblance was in the signatures. Another witness testified
that " A" was not in Hickory's handwriting, but that "X"

was.
.Ab'. A. H. Garlandfor plaintiff in error.
171e. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
1. Hickory being called in his own behalf, denied that the
letter marked "A" was in his handwriting. His counsel
offered a paper which Hickory testified he had written at the
table in court that day, "to compare with the writing on the
document marked 'X,' as produced by Joseph Shade, written
previous to this time, and also to compare with the writing
marked 'A,' offered in evidence by the district attorney."
The court excluded the evidence and the defendant excepted.
According to the general rule of the common law, the genuineness of disputed handwriting could not be determined by
the court and jury by comparing it with other handwriting
of the party, but among the exceptions to the rule was that
if the paper admitted to be in the handwriting of the party or
to have been subscribed by him was in evidence for some other
purpose in the cause, the paper in question might be compared
with it by the jury. -Moore v. United States, 91 U. S. 271;
Rogers v. Ritter, 12 Wall. 317. And this with or without the
aid of witnesses. 1 Greenl. Ev. § 578.
By acts of Parliament it is now provided in England, as
"to all courts of judicature, as well criminal as others," "that
comparison of a disputed writing with any writing proved to
the satisfaction of the judge to be genuine, shall be permitted
VOL. cLi-20

OCTOBER TERI[, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

to be made by the witnesses; and such writings and the evidence of witnesses respecting the same, may be submitted to
the court and jury as evidence of the genuineness, or otherwise
of the writing in dispute." 17, 18 Vict. c. 125; 28, 29 Vict.
c. 18.
Under these statutes it has been decided that any writings,
of the genuineness of which the judge is satisfied upon the
proof, may be used for the purposes of comparison, although
they may not be admissible for any other purpose in the
cause. Birch v. Ridgway, 1 Fost. & Fin. 270; Cresswell v.
Jackson, 2 Fost. & Fin. 24; and that the comparison may be
made either by witnesses or without the intervention of any
witnesses at all, by the jury themselves. Cobbett v. Kilrinster,
4 Fost. & Fin. 490; 1 Whart. Ev. § 712. But in the absence
of statute, papers irrelevant to the issues on the record were
held not receivable in evidence at the trial for the mere purpose of enabling the jury or witnesses to institute a comparison
of hands. Bromage v. Rice, 7 Car. & P. 548; Doe v. Newton,
5 Ad. & El. 514:; Griffits v. Ivery, 11 Ad. & El. 322; 1 Greenleaf Ev. § 580. The danger of fraud or surprise and the
multiplication of collateral issues were deemed insuperable
objections, although not applicable to papers already in the
cause, in respect of which, also, comparison by the jury could
not be avoided.
We do not care to discuss the reasons for the rule or examine
the decisions by the courts of the several States, in which there
is great want of uniformity, for the question here does not
turn on the general rule in relation to comparison of handwriting or the admission of irrelevant papers for the sole purpose of comparison, but on the question of the admissibility of
such writings when specially prepared for the purpose; and
we are clear that they are not admissible. Undoubtedly circumstances may often arise where a witness may be asked, on
cross-examination, to write in the presence of the jury, for the
purpose of testing his credibility; but as original evidence, as
remarked in King v. Donahue, 110 Mfass. 155, 156, "A signature made for the occasion post litem motam and for use at the
trial ought not to be taken as a standard of genuineness."

HICKORY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

"It would," as was said in Milliamrv. State, 61 Alabama,
33, 40, 83, "open too wide a door for fraud, if a witness was
allowed to corroborate his own testimony by a preparation of
specimens of his writing for the purposes of comparison."
"All evidence of handwriting," says Greenleaf, (1 Ev. § 576,)
adopting the language of Patteson, J., in Doe v. Suckermore,
5 Ad. & El. 730, "except where the witness sees the document
written, is in its nature comparison. It is the belief which a
witness entertains upon comparing the writing in question.
with an exemplar in his mind derived from some previous
knowledge." We think, however, there is an obvious distinction between comparison by juxtaposition of an admitted or
established writing and the disputed writing, and comparison
of the latter with an image in the mind's eye, but in either
instance papers prepared for the purpose of having the comparison made are objectionable.
In Stranger v. Searle, 1 Esp. 14, Lord Kenyon refused to
admit the testimony of a witness whose familiarity was derived
from seeing him write for the express purpose of qualifying
the witness, "as the party might write differently from his
common mode of writing through design."
It is only when the paper is written, not by design but unconstrainedly and in the natural manner, so as to bear the
impress of the general character of the party's writing, as the
involuntary and unconscious result of constitution, habit, or
other permanent cause, and therefore of itself permanent, that
it furnishes, if otherwise admissible, any satisfactory test of
genuineness. Coleridge, J., Doe v. Sucicermore, 5 Ad. & El.
703, 705.
The paper offered was rightly excluded by the court.
2. The admission of the testimony of one Charles H. Snell
was objected to upon the ground that his name was not on the
indictment, and the objection was overruled because not made
until the examination-in-chief was concluded. The record
shows no exception taken, though counsel expressed a desire
to save the point. Under section 1033 of the Revised Statutes, any person indicted of a capital offence has the right to
have delivered to him, at least two days before the trial, a list

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

of the witnesses to be produced, and it would be error to put
him on trial and allow witnesses to testify against him whose
names have not been furnished, if he seasonably asserted his
right, Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263; but we think he
did not do that here, and that the defect was waived. It was
suggested by counsel for the defendant that the objection was
made as soon as it was discovered that notice had not been
given in respect to this witness; but we are of opinion that
the discretion of the trial court was properly exercised upon
the question. Counsel ought not to sit by and listen to the
testimony in chief of a witness before inquiring whether his
name has been furnished to the defendants.
3. It is assigned as error that the court did not allow "defendants to show that they were surprised by the testimony
of John Johnson, a witness for defendants, and to show previous declarations of said John Johnson to defendants' counsel
through an interpreter on several occasions during the preparation of said case contrary to his testimony on the stand, which
declarations were favorable to defendants." Johnson was
called for defendants and testified that defendant Shade was
at his house Tuesday evening, but not again until Friday
evening. He was asked if he had not stated to defendants'
counsel, through Isaac Shade as interpreter, that Tom Shade
was theie on Wednesday and Thursday evenings also, but he
answered that he had not, and that the interpreter was mistaken. Thereupon Isaac Shade was subsequently asked:
"State whether or not in your interpretation of his testimony
that he said that Tom stayed at his house Tuesday night,
Wednesday night, and Thursday night and Friday night of
that week," to which objection was made, which the court
sustained, and defendants excepted.
During the trial there was an attempt to show that Wilson
survived the shooting, which was on Tuesday afternoon, and
that defendant Shade afterwards, and by collusion with
Hickory, slew the wounded man with an axe. It is possible
that, if the evidence had tended to establish that Hickory and
Shade had conspired to compass Wilson's death, testimony
insupport of Shade's alibi for the two days succeeding Tuesday

HICKORY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

(assuming it made out as to that day) might have been material as to Hickory; but upon this record the bearing upon
Hickory of Shade's whereabouts on Wednesday and Thursday
is extremely slight, and Shade was acquitted.
When a party is taken by surprise by the evidence of his
witness, the latter may be interrogated as to inconsistent
statements previously made by him for the purpose of refreshing his recollection and inducing him to correct his testimony;
and the party so surprised may also show the facts to be otherwise than as stated, although this incidentally tends to discredit
the witness. As to witnesses of the other party, inconsistent
statements, after proper foundation laid by cross-examination,
may be shown; Railway Company v. Artery, 137 U. S. 507;
but proof of the contradictory statements of one's own witness,
voluntarily called and not a party, inasmuch as it would not
amount to substantive evidence and could have no effect but
to impair the credit of the witness, was generally not admissible
at common law. Best Ev. § 64:5; Whart. Ev. § 54:9; .Melkuish
v. Collier, 15 Q. B. 878.
By statute in England and in many of the States, it has been
provided that a party may, in case the witness shall in the
opinion of the judge prove adverse, by leave of the judge, show
that he has made at other times statements inconsistent with
his present testimony, and this is allowed for the purpose of
counteracting actually hostile testimony with which the party
has been surprised. Adams v. IFkeeler, 97 Mass. 67; Greenough v. Eccles, 5 0. B. (N. S.) 786; Rice v. Ioward, 16
Q. B. D. 681.
Johnson was not a hostile witness, and his testimony was
not in itself prejudicial so far as it failed to make out the alibi
beyond Tuesday, yet it did contradict defendant Shade, who
testified that he was at Johnson's Wednesday and Thursday
nights. But the court allowed defendants' counsel to crossexamine Johnson if they chose, and to prove the fact to be
otherwise than as stated by him, and we cannot say that error
was committed because the court in the exercise of its discretion, under the circumstances, declined to concede any further
relaxation of the rule.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

4. Defendants took certain exceptions to parts of the charge,
the first of which was to: "The court's criticism on circumstantial evidence, denouncing persons who are slow to act on
circumstantial evidence as fools and knaves." Referring to
the necessity of determining the condition of the mind, the
court said: "Some say we cannot do it by circumstantial evidence, because it is cruel and criminal, they say, to convict a
man upon circumstantial evidence. This is a declaration of
either fools or knaves, sympathetic criminals or men who have
not ability enough to know what circumstantial evidence is,
or to perform the ordinary duties of citizenship. When you
consider that these two mental conditions, the fact that the
act was done .Vilfully, and done with malice aforethought, can
never in any case be found in any other way than by circumstantial evidence, you can see the potency in every case of that
class of testimony. Oircumstantial evidence means simply
that you take one fact that has been seen, that is produced
before you by evidence, and from that fact you reason to a
conclusion." The exception gives a color to this part of the
charge which it will not bear, namely, that it amounted to a
denunciation of persons "1who were slow to act on circumstantial evidence," whereas the court was inveighing against the
declaration that it is cruel and criminal to convict a man upon
circumstantial evidence, and that the condition of the mind
cannot be found in that way. This was done with great vigor,
perhaps induced by the arguments of counsel, but that does
not strengthen an exception otherwise destitute of merit.
5. The second exception to the charge was as follows:
"Because the court instructed the jury that the defendant,
Downing, or the party who invokes the law of self-defence,
at the time of the difficulty puts himself in the place of the
judge that lays down the law, of the jury who passes upon the
facts and enters up judgment, and of the marshal who executes
the sentence, and has centred in himself the whole power of
the government or people, without telling them that he is not
required to look at the case and the occurrences with the
same coolness and deliberation that a court and jury would
do in investigating the charge against him, and that, if in this

HICKORY v. UIiTED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

case, as claimed by him, the officer Wilson fired off his pistol
in the first place when his back was to him, and led defendant,
Downing, to believe that the officer was assaulting him, or
the officer did then and afterwards assault him, then all the
circumstances of excitement, agitation, apparent or real peril
that surrounded him, and that may have caused him to misjudge as to the purpose of Wilson, or as to the assault, or to
misconceive as to his exact rights and duties, are all to be
taken into consideration."
Hickory's defence was that the homicide was committed
in self-defence, that is, that he was assaulted by Wilson upon
a sudden affray, and killed him because he was in imminent
and manifest danger either of losing his own life or of suffering enormous bodily harm; or that he was under a reasonable
apprehension thereof, and the danger, as it appeared to him,
was so imminent at the moment of the assault as to present
no alternative of escaping its consequences, except by resistance.
The experienced trial judge told the jury that the mere fact
that a killing is done wilfully does not necessarily make it
murder; that it is also done wilfully when done in selfdefence; and explained the characteristics of that malice the
existence of which is the criterion of murder, defining malice
in the ordinary acceptation of the term, and malice aforethdught, malice express and malice implied, and pointing out
that the requisite malice exists when the act is perpetrated
without any provocation or any just cause or excuse, not only
on special motive or through special malevolence, but also
at the dictates of a heart regardless of social duty and
deliberately bent on mischief; and, saying that such malice
imported premeditation, thus continued: "The doing of the
act which kills must be thought of beforehand. But how
long, you will inquire in this case ? A minute, or a day,
or an hour, or a year? Why, not at all. If it is thought
of at a period, practically speaking, cotemporaneous with
the doing of the act, it is premeditated, it is thought of
sufficiently long. Especially is that the rule applicable in
this day, when a man with the rapidity almost of the batting

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

of an eye or a flash of light may execute a purpose to kill.
He may conceive a purpose, and instantly with its conception
draw his deadly weapon and execute his purpose before you
can bat an eye; the purpose is conceived and executed, and
the man is dead, but yet it is premeditated, as shown in a case
of that kind by the very drawing and presentation and firing
of the gun. The law says, as I will read to you presently,
that the deliberate selection and use of a deadly weapon is
evidence of the existence of malice aforethought, provided
the party had no right to use that weapon, or provided there
is an absence of mitigating facts when he did use it." That
is to say, that when a homicide is committed by weapons
indicating design, then it is not necessary to prove that such
design existed at any definite period before the fatal act.
The learned judge then quoted from the charge in United
States v. Zing, 34 Fed. IRep. 302, (Lacombe, J.,) as follows:
"'It imports premeditation. Therefore there must logically
be a period of prior consideration; but as to the duration of
that period no limit can be arbitrarily assigned. The time
will vary as the minds and temperaments of men, and as do
the circumstances in which they are placed. The human mind
acts at times with marvellous rapidity. 'Men have sometimes
seen the events of a lifetime pass in a few minutes before their
mental vision. Thought is sometimes referred to as the very
symbol of swiftness. There is no time so short but that within
it the human mind can form a deliberate purpose to do an
act; and if the intent to do mischief to another is thus formed,
as a deliberate intent, though after no matter how short a
period of reflection, it none the less is malice.'"
fanslaughter was defined, and the distinction between that
and murder; and the right of self-defence invoked by counsel
in the case was then explained. The first proposition as to
the justifiable exercise of that right was laid down generally
to be that when a man, "in the lawful pursuit of his business,
is attacked by another, under circumstances which denote an
intention to take away his life, or do him some enormous bodily
harm, he may lawfully kill the assailant, provided he use all the
means in his power otherwise to save his own life or prevent

HICKORY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the intended harm, such as retreating as far as he can or disabling his adversary without killing him, if it be in his
power;" and the second proposition, that "when from the
nature of the attack there is reasonable ground to believe that
there is a design to destroy his life or to commit any felony
upon his person, the killing of the assailant will be excusable
homicide, although it should afterwards appear that no felony
was intended."
And in this connection, the learned judge charged among
other things as follows:
"You see a man is required to discharge certain great duties
under all circumstances, and especially is this law of duty incumbent upon him when he is put in that position, in the position of a judge sitting on the bench deliberating upon what
the law is, and of a jury sitting in the jury box listening to
the facts, and finding as coolly, deliberately, and dispassionately as possible under the circumstances, what the facts are.
When a party is in such a condition he is the judge upon the
bench and the jury in the box, and not only that, but he is the
executioner. He finds what the facts are as a jury, and he
makes an application of the law that he finds as a judge to
these facts that he finds as a jury, he enters up a judgment,
and he then and there as a marshal kills in the furtherance of
the judgment. Suppose that the judge of this court had that
power, how long would the people of this land permit him to
sit on this bench? Suppose that you, as twelve dispassionate
citizens, had that power, how long would the people of this
land permit that system to exist? Suppose that the chief
executive officer of this government, the President of the
United States, presumably a discreet, wise, and just man,
having no other purpose than the good of the people, had that
power, how long would these people permit one man to exercise a power of that kind? Exercise it, too, when he wasn't
confronted with acts that inflamed him, or that infuriated
him, but exercised it when he was an intelligent man, and just
man, as our Presidents have always been, and a fair-minded
man. We have divided this power when it comes to be executed deliberately. We have a court that performs one office

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

and the jury another and the executive arm of the government
another. Yet the law of self-defence puts all of these mighty
elements of power into the hands of one man, and it may be
in a given case that he is not a very intelligent man, either; it
may be in a case where he has sought to make application of
it, that he is not a very discreet man, or that he is not a very
dispassionate man, either, yet if the law applies to his case, if
there is an application of that kind that can be correctly made
to that condition, it is to be made, although there is a concentration of these mighty powers that would not be concentrated
in any department of the government alone, but these great
powers in a proper case are properly in the hands of the
citizens. .
"He is required to avoid the necessity of killing if he can
with "due regard to his own safety. He must do that. If
there is a condition where the other party at the time of the
killing is doing an act of violence upon him, and he is in the
right, and that would take his life unless he avoided it, and
he can avoid it otherwise than by killing, and he does not do
it, that is a case where be would be guilty of manslaughter,
because that is a failure to observe his duty and a use of the
law of self-defence hastily. He must not forget that he is
judge, jury, and executioner when he is sitting in that tribunal
out in the woods or country. He is therefore required to
comprehend what this law is. He is required to know what
the facts are that confront him and to make a correct application of that law to these facts, and if he does not do that,
when he might do it, he makes a mistake in that regard, and
he would be guilty of manslaughter."
Having shown that premeditation may exist in the twinkling of an. eye, the learned judge thus treats of the act of
self-defence as involving, at least in kind, the deliberation of
a judge, a jury, and an executioner. If the jury, thus admonished, believed the exercise of the right of self-defence involved
the same deliberation as their own grave consideration of a
verdict upon which a human life might depend, it is easy to
see that they might well confound the distinction between
such deliberation and instantaneous conclusions under sudden

HICKORY v. UNITED STATES.

315

Opinion of the Court.

attack, or in the presence of apprehended or imminent danger.
The charge was open to the construction ;that, while premeditation may exist in a criminal sense upon the conception of an
instant, the conclusion to kill in self-defence must be arrived
at upon more serious deliberation, or it furnishes no excuse.
If, in the language of the Court of Appeals of New York in
People v. Clark, 7 iN. Y. 385, "there be sufficient deliberation
to form a design to take life, and to put that design into execution by destroying life, there is sufficient deliberation to constitute murder, no matter whether the design be formed at
the instant of striking the fatal blow or whether it be contemplated for months;" then in the matter of self-defence, the
deliberation of the slayer in respect of the greatness of the
necessity to protect himself from death or great bodily harm,
if material, would also be sufficient although the conclusion to
kill was arrived at instantaneously. The swiftness of thought
in the latter case would no more exclude the element of deliberation than in the former, and whether the act was excusable
or not could only be determined by all the facts and circumstances disclosed by the evidence.
In short, whether or not a particular homicide is committed
in repulsion of an attack, and, if so, justifiably, are questions
of fact, not necessarily dependent upon the duration or quality
of the reflection by which the act may have been preceded.
The gravest deliberation would not absolve under all circumstances, though it might mitigate the offence under some;
and if the facts justified the act, the extent of deliberation
would be immaterial.
To enlarge upon the magnitude of the power of slaying in
defending against an attack, as being a power which in itself
would not be tolerated in the Chief Executive of the country
or in the judge then passing upon the issues of life and death;
and to advise the jury to inquire, not into the existence of
defendant's belief or the reasonableness of the grounds on
which it rested, but into the character of the deliberation,
which accompanied it tested by the standard of that of the
judge, the jury, and the executioner, in the discharge of their
appropriate duties, manifestly tended to mislead. Nor does

1816

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

this view impute a want of intelligence in the jury. They
might find a verdict in disregard of the instructions of the
court, but this is not to be presumed, and if that strict attention to judicial direction were paid which the due administration of justice requires, we are constrained to the conclusion
that such instructions as those under consideration could not
but have a decided influence upon their action.
As was said in Allen v. United States, 150 U. S. 551, we do
not think that the doctrine is practicable which tests the question whether a defendant was entitled to excuse on the ground
of self-defence, or exceeded the limits of the exercise of that
right, or acted upon unreasonable grounds, or in the heat of
passion, by the deliberation with which a judge expounds the
law to a jury, or the jury determines the facts, or with which
judgment is entered and carried into execution.
However improbable Hickory's story may have been, and
however atrocious his conduct, he could not be deprived of
making the defence he put forward, and these instructions of
the court were erroneous 's they stood unqualified.
The rule in relation to exceptions to instructions is that the
matter excepted to shall be so brought to the attention of the
court before the retirement of the jury as to enable the judge
to correct error, if there be any, in his instructions to them,
and this is also requisite in order that the appellate tribunal
may pass upon the precise question raised without being coinpelled to search the record to ascertain it. And it is also
settled that where several distinct propositions are given, and
the exception covers all of them, if any one of them is correct,
the exception cannot be sustained. The exception here is not
obnoxious to objection as violating the rule in these regards.
The trial judge could not have been in doubt as to the particular part of the charge objected to, and, as his attention was
called to the matter before the jury retired, could have modified or withdrawn it, if he had thought it necessary to do so;
and the portion excepted to is indicated with sufficient precision so far as this court is concerned. Nor did the exception embrace other than the specified statements objected to.
Again, the exception was not to the omission of the court to

CRESCENT MINLG CO. v. WASATCH A fMNG CO.

317

Syllabus.

charge upon a particular point, in which case, in the absence
of request that that should be done, it would not have been
well taken, Texas & Paciflc .Railway co. v. Volk, ante, 73,
although, even in that view, the exception might be held
equivalent to a request for the qualification; but the objection
really was to the giving of the instructions unqualified, and
counsel signified out of abundant caution what in their judgment would remove their ground of complaint. We hold,
therefore, that the point was sufficiently saved.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded with a direction to
grant a new trial.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

dissented.

M.. JUSTICE BRow-N took no part in the consideration and
decision of this case.

CRESCENT MINING COMPANY v. WASATCH
MINING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 180. Argued December 21, 3893.-Decided January 22, 1894.

A. commenced an action against B. in Utah, to recover possession of a tract
of mining land. C., desiring to purchase the disputed tract, agreed with
B. to purchase it, a part of the purchase money to be paid at the signing
of the agreement (which was done), and the balance to be paid on delivery of the deed, after determination of the action in favor of B., C. to
go into possession at once, but not to remove any ores until delivery of
the deed. A., on his part, then sold the disputed premises to C. By a
subsequent agreement C. agreed to pay the consideration therefor to A. in
a year, if the suit should be determined in favor of A. in that time, and
if not then determined, to pay the purchase money into court in the
action of A. against B. By the same agreement the property was mortgaged by C. to A. to secure its performance. The money not having
been paid into court under the last agreement, A. brought a suit to foreclose the mortgage in which it was alleged that the action by A. against
B. was still pending and undetermined, and that C. had not paid the
amount into court, and by which was prayed a decree for such payment

