TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. JOHNSON.

81

Syllabus.

would lie were it not that under section fifteen that court had
no jurisdiction to review the judgment.
As, however, in any case made final, the section made it
competent for this court to require, by certiorarior otherwise,
such case to be certified for its review and determination with
the same power and authority in the case as if it had been
brought up by appeal or writ of error; and as the paragraph
quoted gave the appeal or writ of error as of right in cases
not made final, we are of opinion that it may be properly held
that it was the intention of Congress that jurisdiction might
be entertained by this court to pass upon the jurisdiction of
that court when involving the question of the finality of its
judgment under section six. We have already held that an
appeal or writ of error lies to this court from or to the decrees
or judgments of the Supreme Court of the Territories, except
in cases susceptible of being taken to the Circuit Courts of
Appeals, and cases where the matter in dispute exclusive of
costs does not exceed the sum of five thousand dollars. Shute
v. Feyser, 149 U. S. 649.
Tested by that rule this case could not have been brought
to this court, and as we are clear that the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit rightly decided that it had no
jurisdiction, it could not be brought to that.
Judgment avffrmed.

TEXAS

AND

PACIFIC RAILWAY
JOHNSON.

COMPANY

t.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 138. Argued December 16,1893.-Decided January 3,1894.

A Circuit Court of the United States having appointed a receiver of a railroad
in 1885, and the receiver having, during his possession of the property,
used a very large amount of the net earnings in improving it, whereby it
had been made much more valuable, the court, on the expiration of the
receivership, ordered, on the 26th October, 1888, the receiver to transfer
VOL. CLI-6

OCTOBER TERMW, 1893.
Syllabus.
the property with its improvements to the company, and that it should be
received by the company, charged with operation liabilities, and subject
to judgments rendered or to be rendered in favor of intervenors, and that
all claims against the receiver up to October 31, 1888, be presented and
prosecuted by intervention prior to February 1,1889, or be barred and be
no charge upon the property. On the 14th of September, 1888, J.
brought suit against the receiver in a state court to recover for personal
injuries suffered by reason of defects in the road. On the 17th of December, 1888, the complaint was amended by making the railway company
a party defendant. The receiver set up his receivership and discharge.
The company denied liability for any injury inflicted during the receivership; and among other grounds of defence set up that the plaintiff
below was subject to the order of October 26, and must resort to the
court which entered it for the collection of his claim; that he could not
recover a judgment in personam; and that the claim was barred by the
terms of the order. The case was dismissed in the trial court as to the
receiver, and judgment was given against the company, which judgment
was sustained by the highest court of the State on appeal. The latter court
held, in its opinion, that the company having received the property under
the circumstances described, was bound by the acts of the receiver, and
held the property charged with any claim which he ought to have paid
out of earnings; that the receiver having been discharged, the property
in the hands of the company was released from the custody of the Circuit Court and subject to any claim that might rest against it; that the
order of the Circuit Court was not binding on the plaintiff as affecting his
right to enforce his claim by suit; that the time in which such action
should be commenced was fixed by law and could not be altered by
order of court; that, under the act of March 3, 1888, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373,
as amended by the act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866, the state
court had jurisdiction of the case, and the prosecution of the claim in
that court could not be prevented; and that under the circumstances the
suit could be maintained against the company. A writ of error was
sued out to this court. Held,
(1) That the overruling of the defence set up by the company amounted
to a decision against the validity of the order of the Circuit Court,
or against a claim of right or immunity thereunder, which gave
this court jurisdiction under the writ of error;
(2) That the state court had jurisdiction under the acts of Congress
above cited to proceed to final judgment in the case, and that
it was not necessary to submit that judgment to the Circuit
Court;
(3) That after February 1, 1889, those who had not intervened in the
suit in the Circuit Court, were remitted to such other remedies as
were within their reach;
(4) That as the highest court of the State had held, on other than Federal grounds, that the company was directly liable to the plaintiff
below, its judgment should be affirmed.

TEXAS & PACIFIO RAILWAY v. JOHNSON.

83

Statement of the Case.

Tmis was an action commenced by T. R. Johnson in the
District Court of Marion County, Texas, September 14, 1888,
against John C. Brown, and amended, December 17, 1888, by
making the Texas and Pacific Railway. Company a party defendant. On January 14, 1889, plaintiff filed his first original
amended petition against said defendants, wherein it was alleged that the defendant Brown was on December 15, 1885,
duly appointed by the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Louisiana receiver of the Texas and
Pacific Railway Company and all of its property in the States
of Texas and Louisiana; that he qualified as such receiver,
December 16, 1885, and entered upon and exercised and performed his duties as such from that date until October 31,
1888, inclusive, and that during that time he operated and
managed the property of the defendant corporation in all its
parts in said States as a common carrier of freight and passengers, and into and through certain enumerated counties of the
State of Texas. The petition, after stating the circumstances
of the accident and the ground of liability in that respect, further
averred that the receiver was discharged by the court appointing him, October 31, 1888, under an order of October 26, 1888,
and that he delivered to the railway company all of its property, consisting of the corpus of said railway and all the earnings and income then in his hands as receiver, unexpended,
and all the lands belonging thereto and all improvements
and betterments which had been added to the property by
him.
The provisions of this order requiring that the property
should be so delivered subject to the liabilities of the receiver
were specifically alleged and their legal effect and that of the
acceptance of the property averred; and it was further stated
that under the laws of the State plaintiff was entitled to a lien
on the property for the satisfaction of his claim. Reference
was also made to an order of May 31, 1888, relating to the
termination of the receivership, June 1, 1888, and averring
that after that date the road was continuously operated by the
company.
The plaintiff further alleged that the receiver was originally

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

appointed at the instigation and by the consent of the railway
company and for its benefit, and that the property in his hands
from December 16, 1885, to June 1, 1888, inclusive, was operated and managed by him for the benefit of the defendant
company and its property as originally intended, and that the
property, on June 1, 1888, was redelivered to the defendant
corporation, greatly improved in value without any sale or
foreclosure and without any third parties acquiring any title
thereto or interest therein of any kind. It was finally averred
that "the said- Brown, as receiver, and under orders and direction of said court and by consent of all parties interested,
including defendant company, during the time above mentioned applied all the receipts, earnings, and income of said
railway under said receivership, after the payment of current expenses, to the permanent improvement of said property
to the betterment thereof, and to the purchase of large and
valuable additional property for the use and operation df said
road, amounting in the aggregate to the sum of three million
dollars, all of which money and property is now in the possession of the defendant company as its own and under the conditions heretofore set out. Wherefore the plaintiff brings this
suit and prays for citation to defendants according to law,
and on final trial for judgment against the defendant John C.
Brown, simply establishing the claim of plaintiff against the
receivership under his management, and against the Texas
and Pacific Railway Company for his damages, fifty thousand
dollars, and to fix upon the said property of the said defendant company in the State of Texas a lien to satisfy the judgment rendered herein, for costs, and such other relief to which
plaintiff may be entitled in law or in equity."
The answer of the defendant Brown set up that at the time
the plaintiff was injured he was in the exclusive possession of
the railway company, as receiver, appointed by the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana in the suit of the Missouri Pacific Railway Company
against the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, operating
said road under and in conformity to the orders of said court,
and he was so in possession and operating said road in Sep-

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. JOHNSON.

85

Statement of the Case.

tember, 1888, at the date this suit was commenced; that on
October 26, 1888, the judge of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana made an order in
the cause of .issouri Pac~fte Railway Co. v. The Texas and
Pacifc Railway Co., discharging defendant as receiver, and
said discharge was to take effect and did take effect on October 31, 1888, and the receiver was ordered to deliver and did
deliver all the property in his hands as receiver to the railway
company, October 31, 1888, in strict compliance with the
order of the court; that the railway company took and
received the property subject to and charged with all traffic
liabilities due to connecting lines and all contracts for which
the receiver might be held liable, and also subject to any and
all judgments which had been theretofore rendered in favor of
intervenors in said cause, as well as such judgments as might
thereafter be rendered by the court in favor of intervenors
who should file interventions therein prior to February 1,
1889; that he had complied fully with the order of the court
and delivered the property to the railway company and had
been fully and finally discharged, and he prayed to be dismissed with his costs.
The railway company demurred on the ground that the
petition showed no cause of action against it; and also
answered stating that at the time the plaintiff was injured he
was not in the employment of this defendant, but of the
receiver; that the receiver was discharged October 31, 1888,
by an order entered and filed on the 26th of that month in
said cause; that on October 31 and November 1, 1888, the
receiver delivered to this defendant all the property held by
him as receiver, and fully complied with the order of court
discharging. him, and the railway company received and accepted the property charged with all traffic liabilities due to
connecting lines, with all contracts by which the receiver
might be held liable, and with the payment of any and all
judgments which had theretofore been rendered in favor of
intervenors in the case of Missouri Pacific Railway Co. v. The
Texas and Pacif§c Railway Co., in the United States court for
the Eastern District of Louisiana, as well as such judgments as
I

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

might be rendered in favor of intervenors who might intervene
in said cause prior to February 1, 1889, and free from any and
all other demands or claims. The answer also contained a
general denial.
The cause was tried January 18, 1889, and resulted in a
judgment of dismissal as to defendant Brown, and a verdict
against the defendant railway company in the sum of fifteen
thousand dollars, upon which judgment was entered in the
following language: "It is further ordered and adjudged by
the court that the plaintiff, T. R.Johnson, do have and recover
of and from the defendant, the Texas and Pacific Railway
Company, the sum of fifteen thousand ($15,000) dollars, with
8 per cent interest thereon from date, together with all costs
in this behalf expended as between plaintiff and said defendant, for which let execution issue."
A motion by the railway company for a new trial was made
and denied, and it moved to reform the judgment so that it
should be entered up as against the company to "be paid in
due course of the administration of the property of the Texas
and Pacific Railway Company in the United States Circuit
Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, at New Orleans,
and that no execution issue from this court to collect said
judgment." This motion was overruled, and the company
excepted, and thereupon appealed to the Supreme Court of
Texas, by which the judgment was affirmed. The opinion of
that court will be found reported in 76 Texas, 421. The company applied for a writ of error, which was allowed, and the
case duly docketed in this court.
Upon the trial of the cause there was read in evidence on
behalf of the plaintiff the petition 'of Brown, receiver, filed
May 31, 1888, in the receivership case, for discharge as receiver and the order of the court made on said petition, and
filed May 31, 1888. By this petition the receiver represented
that the objects contemplated by the different bills filed in the
causes named in the title had been accomplished, and all
parties had agreed that "after the settlement with the receiver
and the payment of costs and other liabilities, or provision for
such payment fully made," the receiver should be discharged

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. JOHNTSON.
Statement of the Case.

and the causes dismissed; and that his accounts were in condition for final settlement up to the first of May. Petitioner
asked the court to have an accounting with him as receiver,
and, when final settlement was made and petitioner fully
indemnified against matters unsettled growing out of the receivership, that the property now in his hands "be turned
over to the proper officer of the Texas and Pacific Railway
Company." He further represented "that a large number of
suits are pending in the courts of Texas and Louisiana against
him as receiver for alleged torts connected with the conduct
of the railway in its operation, and there are also judgments
for small amounts before justices of the peace, aggregating
about $12,000, for damages to stock and for property burned
by sparks fronm engines. There are also a considerable number of claims pending in this court by proceedings in intervention which have not been finally settled. A statement of
these claims will be filed. Petitioner prays that he be fully
protected against these claims, and for such other and proper
relief as may seem necessary and proper."
The order thereon directed that an accounting be made by
the receiver to the first day of June, "and at the coming in of
which report, and it being found satisfactory and accepted,
the remaining prayers of the petition will be granted by the
court. In the meantime the receiver will continue to hold the
property under the orders of the court until the first of June,
1888, at which time, if this order is not vacated, the railway
and its property may be operated by the corporation under
such orders as may be made by the court from time to time
and under the supervision and control of the receiver, to
the end that the property shall not pass beyond the control
of the orders of the court nor of the receiver until the accounting takes place with the receiver and until he is fully
protected by the corporation for causes of action originating
against him and against the property pending the receivership." Then follows a direction in relation to stating the
account.
The plaintiff also read in evidence a petition of the receiver
of October 26, 1888, and the order of the Circuit Court of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

United States for the Eastern District of Texas on that petition, bearing the same date.

The petition (omitting titles) and order were as follows:
"To the honorable the judges of the said Circuit Court:
"Your petitioner, John C. Brown, as receiver of the Texas
and Pacific Railway and its property in the above entitled and
numbered causes, represents that heretofore it has been made
to appear to the court that the objects and purposes of all the
bills in these causes have been accomplished by settlement and
agreement of the parties, and evidence of that fact filed as
part of the record; that on its being so made to appear the
court ordered him to render his accounts as receiver up to the
first of June, which has been done, and it has been examined
and approved, and since that date petitioner has kept his
account as with the company. By the same order he was
directed to hold the property under the orders of the court
until the first of June, 1888, at which time if said order was
not vacated the railway company might operate the road
under such orders as the court might make from time to time
and under the supervision and control of the receiver. No
formal delivery of the road and property in his hands has been
made to said railway company, and petitioner now asks that
he be allowed formally to deliver all property and funds in his
hands as such receiver to said railway company, and that he
be allowed to account to said company according to his
account filed up to the first of June and for all receipts and
expenditures by him received and made since the first of June.
He has carried over on the present books of the company the
cash balance and all other balances of property and assets as
found in his hands by his report to the first of June aforesaid,
and he is now the president of said railroad company, and
after his discharge will be in possession of all of said company's road, property, and funds as such for the said company.
Wherefore he asks that he be discharged from his said receivership, and that his bond as receiver be vacated and annulled on
payment of all costs legally taxable, but he prays the court to
make such order as will charge the property so turned over in

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. JOHNSON.

89

Statement of the Case.

the hands of said railway company and its assigns with all
liability for which he as receiver is or might be held personally
liable. Your petitioner further says that the sum of his compensation as receiver has been agreed on by the parties in
interest and is satisfactory to him and has been settled up to
the 31st day of October, 1888, at which time he asks that his
discharge take effect.
"(Signed)
Jxo. C. Bnowx."
"The Missouri Pacific Railway Company )
Vs.
No. 11,181.
The Texas and Pacific Railway Company.
"On consideration of the foregoing petition it is now ordered,
adjudged, and decreed that the prayer of the same be granted,
and accordingly that John 0. Brown, receiver of the property
of the Texas and Pacific Railway in the above-entitled causes,
be, and he is hereby, directed to make delivery unto said Texas
and Pacific Railway Company of all property, funds, and
assets in his hands as such receiver, and that he be directed to
account to said company according to his account filed and
approved up to June 1st, 1888, and for all receipts and expenditures by hiql received and made since the said 1st June,
1888. Such delivery will be made as of October 31st, 1888.
It is further ordered that said receiver be finally discharged
on said 31st October, 1888, from his receivership on payment
of all costs legally taxed, and that thereupon his bond be
vacated and cancelled. It is further ordered that said property nevertheless shall be delivered to and received by said
Texas and Pacific Railway Company, subject to and charged
with all traffic liabilities due to connecting lines and all contracts for which said receiver is or might be held, made, or in
any way liable, and subject also to any and all judgments
which have heretofore been rendered in favor of intervenors
in this case and which have not been paid, as well as to such
judgments as may be hereafter rendered by the court in favor
of intervenors, while it retains the cases for these determinations or interventions now pending and undetermined or
which may be filed prior to February, 1889, together with

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

needful expenses of defending said claims, and upon the condition that such liabilities and obligations of the receiver, when
so recognized and adjudged, may be enforced against said
property in the hands of said company or its assigns to the
same extent it could have been enforced if said property had
not been surrendered into the possession of said company and
was still in the hands of the court, and with the further condition that the court may, if needful for the protection of the
receiver's obligations and liabilities so recognized by this court,
resume possession of said property. The bills in these causes
will be retained for the purpose of investigating such liabilities
and obligations and for such other purpose as may seem needful. It is ordered that all claims against the receiver as such
up to said thirty-first October, 1888, be presented and prosecuted by intervention prior to February first, 1889, and, if not
so presented by that date, that the same be barred and shall
not be a charge on the property of said company. It is
further ordered that the said receiver advertise in a daily
newspaper in New Orleans and in Dallas the fact of his said
discharge, and a notice to said claimants to make claim within
the time aforesaid, to wit, the first of February, 1889, and
that he post a notice of similar purport in thft station-houses
of said railway. *
"New Orleans, October 26th, 1888."
The deposition of John C. Brown was also read in evidence,
in which he testified: That he was receiver from December
16, 1885, to and including October 31, 1888; that "all of the
earnings and income of the road, after paying operating
expenses, in addition to over two millions of dollars voluntarily contributed by the stockholders, were appropriated to
the improvement of the road in my hands as receiver;" that
the expenditure of the money above alluded to was made
under orders of the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, at New Orleans; that the improvements
and betterments were highly necessary to carry on the businegs of the road and to operate it as a common carrier; tlhat
"debts were created to raise money to make said improve-

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. JOHNSON.

91

Statement of the Case.

ments to the amount of nearly two million five hundred thousand dollars, the larger portion of which has been paid, and
some of which is in litigation;" that the circumstances under
which the improvements were made were, briefly, as follows:
"In the summer or early autumn of 1885 the owners of the
property became satisfied that the company could not longer
continue paying interest upon the bonded debt without first
expending a large amount of money in the renewal of tracks,
raising of roadway, widening cuts and embankments, putting
in a large amount of new cross-ties, purchasing a large amount
of rolling stock and motive power, and the renewal of bridges,
etc. A committee was raised by the board of directors to
give a personal inspection of the line with the aid of experts
and report to the board the condition of the property and the
amount necessary to place the property in a fair condition.
The ultimate result of the report of that committee was to
place the road in the hands of a receiver and suspend the payment of interest, it being then believed that it would be necessary to sell the road finally under foreclosure of mortgage.
The committee of reorganization afterwards devised the plan
which was approved by the parties in interest, which avoided
final foreclosure. In the meantime the improvements aforesaid were made."
Plaintiff further offered to prove the money value of the
improvements and betterments put upon the road during the
receivership, whereupon it was admitted that "such betterments placed on said railroad out of the earnings of the road
in excess of the operating expenses while in the hands of the
receiver were of value sufficient to more than cover the amount
claimed by plaintiff in this suit."
The record also contains the evidence as to the circumstances
surrounding the accident and the nature of the injuries inflicted.
The Supreme Court of Texas .held that a railway company,
in the absence of some statute so providing, will not be liable
for the acts of its receiver by reason alone of his relation to
it; but that if such company and its creditors should by collusion procure a receivership, or if the receiver in fact operated
the road under orders of a court without jurisdiction, it would

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

seem that the railway company would be bound by all acts of
such receiver: That a claim for damages caused by injuries
inflicted through the negligence of the receiver while he was
operating the railway is entitled to payment out of current
receipts, and if the current earnings be invested by the receiver
in betterments on the road, which, without sale, is returned to

the company at the close of the receivership, then the company
must be held to have received the property, charged with any
-claim which the receiver ought to have paid out of the earnings: That when a receiver has been discharged and the
property all returned to the con~pany under order of the court
in which the proceedings were had, the control of the court
over the property is ended, and the property, when released
from the custody of the court, stands subject to any claim
that may rest against it: That the order of the United States
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, in the
receivership proceedings affecting the Texas and Pacific Railway, to which the plaintiff was not a party, prescribing that
all persons who had claims, with which the property might be
charged, should present them by intervention to that court,
was without authority of law and not binding upon the plaintiff as affecting his right to enforce his claim by suit; and
that the time within which a claim for damages might be
prosecuted against a railway company was fixed by law and
could not be altered by order of court: That under the act of
Congress of March .3, 1887, persons having claims against
receivers might sue upon and establish them in any court
having jurisdiction, and this right could not be nullified by
order of court; and that after discharging the receiver and
restoring the property to its owners, the United States court
could not maintain such jurisdiction over the matter as to
prevent the prosecution of such claim to judgment and execution: That a suit in a state, court for damages for personal
injuries caused by the negligent operation of the Texas and
Pacific Railway while in the hands of a receiver could be
maintained against the railway company after its property
was restored to it, the current earnings of the road having
been used by the receiver in improving it.

TEXAS & PAOIFIC RAILWAY v. JOHNSON.

93

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Other rulings were made in reference to the merits upon
which the recovery rested.
Mr. John F. Dillon, (with whom was -Mr. Winslow S. Pierce
on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
I. All the questions in this case are open f6r review by
this court. The charter of the Texas and Pacific Railway is a.
public act of Congress. The company having been created
to subserve public purposes, and its creation having been provided for by public law, the nature and sovereignty of its
organization are judicially recognized. Pacific Railroad
Removal Cases, 115 U. S. 1; Osborn v. Bank of th-e United
States, 9 Wheat. 738.
This . case comes here under the provisions of Rev. Stat.
§ 709. The language of the court in HeNulta v. Lochridge,
141 U. S. 327, 329, is applicable here: "But, while we think
that plaintiff in error is not entitled to immunity by virtue
of the statute of 1887, we are authorized by Revised Statutes,
sec. 709, to review the final judgment or decree of a state
court where ' any title, right, privilege, or immunity is claimed
any . . . authority exercised under the
under . .
United States, and the decision is against the title, right,
privilege, or immunity specially set up or claimed by either
etc. Now,
.
party under such . . . authority,'
as MecNulta was exercising an authority as receiver under an
order of the Federal court, and claimed immunity as such
receiver from suit without the previous leave of such court,
and the decision was adverse to such claim, he is entitled to a
review of such ruling whether his claim be founded upon the
statute or upon principles of general jurisprudence. We
regard this as a legitimate deduction from the opinions of
this court in Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334; .Feibelman v.
Packard, 109 U. S. 421; Pacific Railroad Removal (aces,
115 U. S. 1; Etheridge v. Sperry, 139 U. S. 266, and Book v.
Perkins, 139 U. S. 628."
IL The state court had no power to render a personal judg.

.

OCTOBER TERMK, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ment vagainst the Texas and Pacific Railway Company upon a
cause of action arising out of the negligence of John C. Brown,
receiver, nor had it power or jurisdiction to award execution
against the railway company upon such judgment.
The court below seems to have recognized the difficulty manifest enough -in the affirmance of a personal judgment
founded exclusively on the theory of an equitable charge upon
specific property in the hands of an owner who has taken it
cum onere. Appreciating the necessity of a personal liability
as the foundation of a personal judgment, it seems to have
indulged its own suggestion that the receiver was, in some
qualified sense sufficient for its purposes, the agent of the
railway company. In cases involving hardship it has been
more than once argued that liability on the part of a corporation, in such cases as the present, might be deduced
through the application of the rules of agency, but the inapplicability of these rules has been easily demonstrated. It
was with such a suggestion that the court dealt in the case of
Farmers'Zoan and Trust Co. v. Central Railroad of Iowa,
7 Fed. Rep. 537. See also Hicks v. - & G. -. Railway, 62
Texas, 40; Godfrey v. Ohio & -liss. Railway, 116 Indiana,
30; Bell v. Jndianajpolis, Cincinnati &c. Railroad, 53 Indiana, 57.
In the case of Davis v. Duncan, 19 Fed. Rep. 477, a receiver had surrendered a railroad property to a companythe same company from which he received it- under an
order which omitted provision for claims against the receiver
which had not been put in suit. The receiver was subsequently sued on a claim of this description. Hill, J., said:
"The railroad company is not liable for the injuries comiplained of in the bill for the reason that they were committed
while it was out of possession of the property and had no
control over it. This conclusion is sustained by principle and
authority" (citing cases).
The equitable doctrine for the existence of which the court
below contended, i.e. the doctrine that a railway company to
which its property is surrendered by a receiver who has
applied current receipts to its improvement and betterment,

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. JOHNSON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

leaving operating expenses unpaid, takes the property oum
onere to the extent of such betterments and improvements, is
a doctrine of comparatively recent announcement. It had its
source and origin in the hardship of particular cases. Until
the decision by the court below of the present case it was
never decided, nor even contended, that the mere existence of
such a situation could result in a personal liability of the company to the extent of the amount by which the property
received by it was thus burdened. It has been well understood that the receiver of a -railroad property represents the
court in its administration, and is the agent of no person or
corporation; and it has been equally well understood that it
is the function of the court to provide for the expense of
operation and for the liabilities of its receivership.
III. The equity upon which the trial court and the Supreme
Court of Texas relied in the rendition and affirmance of the
judgment below did not arise in this cause.
The equity upon which the plaintiff insists and which was
recognized by the court below, has its foundation in a lack of
opportunity to a claimant to prove his claim in the court in
which the receivership cause is, or was, pending. This equity,
in its broadest assertion, is recognized only to the extent of
giving to a claimant an opportunity which has been denied by
the discharge of property from the custody of the receivership without provision for his claim, and without reservation
of power to resume possession for the purpose of meeting the
liability involved in his claim.
No such equity exists, or will be recognized where there
has been opportunity afforded to present claims in the court
of administration, and seasonable notice or knowledge of such
opportunity.
After full administration by a7 court of competent jurisdiction, and actual notice and opportunity to parties interested
to present their claims, the purchaser or party taking from
the court holds the property free from the claims of all such
claimants with notice and opportunity. The practice in such
cases, and the conclusiveness of such administration, are fully
presented in the cases, in this court, of Williams v. Gibbes, 17

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

How. 239- 6elston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 246; lfiswall v. Sampson, 14 How. 52.
V. The order of the Federal courts retaining the bills,
affording opportunity for intervention, and limiting the time
within which intervention could be made so as to establish
intervening claims as charges upon the property surrendered,
was a legitimate, proper, and salutary exercise of jurisdiction.
It may be frankly conceded that the original petition of the
plaintiff seeking a personal judgment against the receiver in
his capacity as receiver, was properly brought without leave
of court, and it may be even conceded for the purposes of
argument that such suit was properly brought in the state
court of Texas, and could have been there carried to recovery.
But it is entirely clear that such a recovery would be effective
only as a judicial ascertainment of the plaintiff's claim and
that the judgment itself could only have been realized out of
the property in the hands of the receiver, after it had been
presented to the court in which the receivership cause was
pending, subjected to the equitable scrutiny of that court, and
allowed for payment in the course of its administrationIJXfo.ulta v. -Lochridge,ubi suypra ; -Dillingham
v. Russell, 7&
Texas, 47; Harding v. Nettleton, 86 Missouri, 658; Jessup vWabash & St. Louis Railway, 44 Fed. Rep. 663.
In this case the defendant company has no relation to or
concern with the claim of the plaintiffs except as the same
might be adjudged to be a charge upon property of which
it is the owner. The personal claim was against the receiver,
and, before property surrendered by him could be reached
with an equitable charge for his liabilities, the claim must
have been ascertained and reduced to judgment. This is
merely the familiar rule affecting creditors' bills, and clearly
applicable to a case of this character. Brown v. Long, 1 Iredell Eq. 190; -fassey v. Gorton, 12 Minnesota, 145; S. C. 90
Am. Dec. 287; Tan IUreel v. WTinton, 115 U. S. 228; Brown
v. Wabash Railway Co., 96 Illinois, 297; Jessup v. WVabash
&c. Railway, ubi supra; Davis v. Duncan, 19 Fed. Rep. 477.
It will be observed that the order of the Federal court
charging the property with receivership liabilities, and limit-

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. JOHNSOMh

97

Opinion of the Court.

ing the time within which interventions must be filed in order
to reach the property, was in no sense an order analogous to
a statute of limitation. It would have been competent for
the court to have omitted these provisions from its order, and
to have discharged the property absolutely from the custody
of the court and its receiver. In such event, the property
would not have been subject to any liens, or charges for receivership liabilities, except through the possible operation of
the doctrine of equity in respect to betterments and improvements which we have heretofore discussed, and which has no
bearing upon this branch of the argument. In discharging
the property from the custody of the receivership, the court
of its own motion exacted from the defendant company the
condition that the property in its hands should remain subject
to and charged with such receivership liabilities as the court
had, or might, within a specified time and in a specified manner, adjudge against it. This was a voluntary provision of the
court; and, no matter how usual or prudent it may have been,
and no matter how careless or unjustifiable, from a standpoint
of fairness, its omission would have been, it was still a voluntary precaution, and the right reserved was not one which
would have existed independently of the reservation. It was
not, therefore, an order made in limitation of any rights of
the plaintiff.
The power in such cases to make orders limiting the time
for presentation of claims in order that they shall be chargeable upon the surrendered property has been clearly recognized
by this court. Olcott v. Headrick, 141 U. S. 543, and cases
cited; Union Trust Co. v. Morrison, 125 U. S. 591. See also
Pine Lake Iron Co. v. Lafayette Car TForks, 53 Fed. Rep. 853.
.r.

Xr. H. I -May, (with whom were Mr. . A. Culberson and
A. H. Garlandon the brief,) for defendants in error.

MR. CHIEF JusTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to review the judgment of the highest court of a State in which a decision in the suit could be
VOL. CLI-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

had, under section 709 of the Revised Statutes, providing for
such review where the validity of an authority exercised under
the United States is drawn in question and the decision is
against its validity, or "where any title, right, privilege, or
immunity is claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty, or
statute of, or commission held or authority exercised under,
the United States, and the decision is against the title, right,
privilege, or immunity specially set up and claimed, by either
party, under such Constitution, treaty, statute, commission, or
authority."
Because the suit might have been brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States, or removed thereto from the
state court on the ground that it was one arising under the
laws of the United States, in that the Texas and Pacific RailWvay Company was a corporation organized under and by
virtue of acts of Congress, it does not follow that the state
court decided against any title, right, privilege, or immunity
in exercising its jurisdiction. The railway company was not
exempted from suit in the state courts by the law of its creation
or any other act of Congress; and we perceive no title, right,
privilege, or immunity secured by that law, which was denied
by the judgment under consideration.
Nor can jurisdiction be maintained on the ground that a
right or immunity was claimed under the authority exercised
by the receiver in virtue of the order of the Circuit Court of
the United States, which right or immunity was denied, as in
iMJNulta v. Loc/hridge, 141 U. S.327. The judgment was in
favor of the receiver and the writ of error is brought by the
company, and it is well settled that the right or immunity
must be one of the plaintiff in error and not of a third person
only. .Ludeling v. Chafe, 143 U. S.301; Giles v. Little, 134
U. S. 645.
The validity of no treaty or statute of the United States
was drawn in question, nor was any claim of right or immunity set up under the Constitution or any treaty or statute of,
or commission under, the United States, so that we are confined to the inquiry whether the validity of an authority exercised under the United States in any other regard than above

TEXAS & IPAOIFIO RAILWAY v. JOHNSON.

99

.Opinion of the Court.

indicated, or any claim under such authority, was denied.
And as the defence was directly made that the plaintiff below
was subject to the order of October 26, and must, therefore,
resort to the court which entered it for the collection of his
claim, and could not recover a judgment in personarn collectible by the ordinary process ; and, moreover, that his claim was
thereby barred; the overruling of that defence may properly
be held to have amounted to a decision against the validity of
the order, or against a claim of right or immunity thereunder.
As respects the contention for the railway company that
a personal judgment could not be rendered against it because
it was not liable for acts of negligence committed by the
receiver, that was a question of general law and for the state
court to pass upon. In the view of that court, a railway
company might be held directly liable when a receiver is
appointed in an amicable suit at the instigation of the company and for the company's own purposes, and, these purposes
being accomplished, the property is returned to its owner, the
rights of no third persons as purchasers intervening, upon the
ground that the acts of the receiver might well be regarded
as the acts of its own servant, rather than those of an officer
of the court, which under such circumstances he would only
be sub modo. But as the court did not feel authorized to
entertain a conclusion which might carry the implication that
this receivership would have been created or continued,
although its object had only been to place the property temporarily beyond the reach of creditors until it could be augmented in value by improvements made from earnings under
the protection of the court, that rule was not applied in this
case. The company was held liable upon the distinct ground
that the earnings of the road were subject to the payment of
claims for damages, and that as, in this instance, such earnings to an extent far greater than sufficient to pay the plaintiff had been diverted into betterments, of which the company had the benefit, it must respond directly for the claim.
This was so by reason of the statute, (Laws Tex. 1887, 120, c.
131, § 6,) and, irrespective of statute, on equitable principles
applicable under the facts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court..

The railway company contends that its liability turned upon
the fact that it took possession upon condition that its property
should be charged with the receivership liabilities, and that it
is immaterial whether the property was so charged by the
order of the Circuit Court of the United States or by operation
of general doctrines of equity, because, in either aspect, it was
the property alone that was charged: if by the order of the
court, it could only be with such liabilities as had been or
should be adjudged by that court; if, upon equitable principles,
then it could only be to the extent of the amount diverted to
betterments, and defendant in error should have been confined
to a lien on specific improvements, measured by the proportion
which the aggregate of like claims would bear to the amount
diverted; but the state court decided otherwise, holding, in
view of the facts disclosed, that the burden assumed by the
company was that of a direct liability, and that judgment
against it could be rendered in the usual form and collected in
the ordinary way.
These conclusions did not rest upon the order of October 26
as affirmatively imposing a specific liability upon the company,
and the only question for us to determine is, whether in ruling
that that order did not preclude such a judgment as was rendered and did not operate to require the defendant in error to
submit his judgment to the Circuit Court of the United States
at New Orleans to obtain its collection in such manner and to
such extent as that court might be advised, a claim of right or
immunity under an authority exercised under the United States
was erroneously decided against.
The position of plaintiff in error seems to be that the order
constituted matter in bar of a recovery against the railway
company on the merits, on the theory that the property passed
to the company upon certain conditions as to outstanding
claims, irrespective of the fact that those conditions were
intended to secure payment in that court and not to defeat -it,
and that the company only resumed its own, augmented in
value by the use of earnings which should have been applied
to the extinguishment of such claims; or that the judgment
should have been originally rendered, or been reformed, so as

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. JOHNSON.

101

Opinion of the Court.

to provide for payment in due course of administration in the
Circuit Court, and not otherwise.
By section three of the act of -March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552,
c. 373, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433,
c. 866, every receiver, appointed by a court of the United States,
may be sued in respect of any act or transaction of his in
carrying on the business connected with the property, without
the previous leave of the court by which such receiver was
appointed. Necessarily, such suit may be brought in any
court of competent jurisdiction and proceed to judgment
accordingly. This suit was so brought; the railway company,
on being made a party, answered in bar, and judgment
followed.
Nevertheless it is insisted that this recovery was effective
only as a judicial ascertainment of the amount, and that the
judgment itself could only be realized out of the property of
the company, after it had been presented to the court of the
receivership cause and been allowed for payment, subject to
the contingency that that court might hold that it was exhibited too late.
This result is declared to arise out of the necessities of the
case and to be recognized in the last clause of the third section
of the act of Congress of March 3, 1887, which adds to the
provision that suit may be brought against a receiver without
leave of the appointing court, the words, "but such suit shall
be subject to the general equity jurisdiction of the court in
which such receiver or manager was appointed so far as the
same shall be necessary to the ends of justice." And it is
also urged, in repetition of the argument that judgment in
personam could not be recovered, that this suit as against the
railway company was necessarily a proceeding in 'em, and
could only be instituted and the property charged in the court
having jurisdiction of the 9'es. In other words, the contention
assumes that all the property of the company after the discharge of the receiver was still under the protection of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana in respect of subjection to this and like claims.
We are of opinion that these views are inapplicable to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

case. This action was in itself in no sense a proceeding in rem,
and the state court has held on other than Federal grounds
that the company was directly liable. The property was no
longer in the custody of the Circuit Court, and it had no possession that would be interfered with by the levy of an execution, so that defendant in error was not obliged to resort to
an intervention in that court before he could collect, unless he
was personally bound to do so by force of an adjudication to
that effect operating upon him. In this connection it should
be observed that the property was not sold but merely redelivered to the company. No judgment in rem was entered; no
fund existed through a sale in foreclosure; the earnings far
exceeded the debts during the temporary management; and
it did not appear that either in reference to expenses incurred
in the administration or in the matter of claims resting on
controverted priorities, or otherwise, there were any equities
to be adjusted which required the further exercise of jurisdiction.
The order of October 26 was entered by the Circuit Court
for the Eastern District of Louisiana, but the record does not
disclose that similar action was taken in Texas, although the
titles of the petitions and orders of May 31 and October 26
include the names of two cases as pending in the Northern
District of the latter State, and reference is made to them;
but in any view, the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana was deemed the court of primary administration.
The order provided that the property should be delivered
to the railroad company subject to "such judgments as may
be hereafter rendered by the court in favor of intervenors,
while it retains the cases for these determinations or interventions now pending and undetermined, or which may be
filed prior to February 1, 1889," and that such as were not so
presented and prosecuted by intervention by that date should
be barred, and should not "be a charge on the property of
said company ;" and further, that "the court may, if needful
for the protection of the receiver's obligations and liabilities
so recognized by this court, resume possession of said property."

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. JOHNSON.

103

Opinion of the Court.

The general equity jurisdiction of the Circuit Court no
doubt embraced the authority to hold possession of the property and to determine the rights of all persons who were
parties, or who made themselves parties to the proceedings
before it; and if the property sequestrated had gone to sale
and a fund been realized for distribution, then, upon notice
appropriate to proceedings in i'em, the defendant in error
might have been bound by the disposition thereupon made;
yet, not only was there no proof that the notice required by
the order was ever given, or any other notice, but the receiver was discharged, his bond cancelled, and the property
surrendered, without sale or transfer, so that it is in effect
sought to have defendant in error held personally bound by
an order to which he was not a party, entered by a court into
which he was not brought in any mannqr. It is impossible to
concede that he was in contempt in the recovery of his judgment or would be in enforcing it against the company's property; but that is the necessary result of the position taken by
counsel.
Certainly the preservation of general equity jurisdiction
over suits instituted against receivers without leave does not, in
promotion of the ends of justice, make it competent for the
appointing court to determine the rights of persons who are
not before it or subject to its jurisdiction; and the right to
sue without resorting to the appointing court, which involves
the right to obtain judgment, cannot be assumed to have been
rendered practically valueless by this further provision in the
same section of the statute which granted it.
The order was not a decree in i,emn condemning the particular thing seized, but an order providing for the resumption of
possession thereafter, if found necessary, to the end that such
a decree might then be granted; and we are aware of no
principle which would justify us in holding that a court, under
the circumstances which existed here, could part with its jurisdiction over property by the complete surrender thereof to its
owner, and at the same time constructively retain jurisdiction
over such property so as in that respect to bind those who
would otherwise be unaffected by its orders.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The case was not one of a fund in court, and the authorities
upon the question of limitation of time for the presentation of
claims to share in the distribution of such a fund are not in
point. It was not a case of purchase in which compliance
with stipulated conditions forms part of the consideration, and
the extent of the burdens assumed is defined. It did not
present the question of the power of the court in the instance
of a sale to deliver the property free from any liabilities whatever incurred in administration. And we do not think the
Circuit Court attempted to accomplish the result contended
for, or that its order is open to the interpretation put upon it
by counsel for the company.
The receiver was about to be discharged and the property
redelivered to the company. On the one hand, the receiver was
entitled to protection from liability, and on the other, just
claims were entitled to be paid. The Circuit Court sought to
secure both objects by the terms of the order and the conditions annexed to the acceptance of possession, but did not regard itself as constrained to indefinitely prolong the pendency
of the equity proceedings for that purpose. It reserved those
proceedings, therefore, for the disposition of pending interventions and such as might be filed within a time fixed, at the
expiration of which the court could not be called on to
allow further claims and assert control over the property for
their satisfaction. They would thereafter be barred from
prosecution under those proceedings.
In this way the Circuit Court recognized and relieved itself
from the obligation to see that no injustice resulted from the
action it was taking, which action operated to withdraw from
claimants against the receiver the security of his bond and
possibly of the property. But after February 1, 1889, those
who had not intervened would cease to be entitled to resort to
the Circuit Court in the equity suits, and would be remitted to
such other remedies as might be within their reach. If the
recovery of defendant in error and the collection of his judgment had been dependent upon the order or upon any action
of the Circuit Court in his favor in the original suits, a different question would have been presented, but as the matter

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. SAUNDERS.

105

Syllabus.

stands we perceive no aspect in which that order can be treated
as operating in limitation of the rights of defendant in error
except in the particular of resort to the Circuit Court as above
indicated.
From these considerations we conclude that there was no
error in the result arrived at by the Supreme Court of Texas
in the disposition of Federal questions, and its judgment is
accordingly
Affirmed.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. GRIFFIx.
TEXAS & PACIFIC
RAILWAY v. OVERHEISER. Error to the Supreme Court of the

State of Texas. Nos. 136 and 137. Argued with No. 138, ante,
81.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER: These cases are reported in
76 Texas, 437, 441, and involve here the same questions as those
in the case above decided.
The judgments are, severally,
Affirmed.

31r. John F. Dillon, (with whom was Mr. Winslow S. Pierce on
the brief,) for plaintiff in error.

1r. H. J. May, (with whom was Mr. 0. A. Culberson and Mr.
A. H. Garlandon the brief,) for defendants in error.

TEXAS

AND

PACIFIC RAILWAY
SAUNDERS.

COMPANY

v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 162. Submitted December 13, 1893.-Decided

January 3, 1894.

This writ of error is dismissed because the judgment does not exceed the
sum of $5000, exclusive of costs, and the jurisdiction of the court below
was not involved within the meaning of the act of February 25, 1889, 25
Stat. 693, c. 236, empowering this court to review the judgments of Circuit Courts when such is the fact.
An objection that an action is brought in the wrong district cannot be
raised after the defendant has pleaded in bar.

