BATES v. PREBLE.
Syllabus.

the basis of those of other similar establishments. But, as we
have seen, the burden of proof was upon the plaintiff. He
relied, notwithstanding defendant's objections, on incompetent
and irrelevant evidence, and the decree in his favor, in so far
as it awards more than nominal damages, cannot be sustained.
The decree of the court below is
Reversed, the costs in this court to be paid by the appellee;
and this cause is remanded with directions to enter a
decreefor nominal damages with costs.

BATES v. PREBLE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 123. Argued November 28, 29, 1893. -Decided January 8, 1894.

This court is not committed to the general doctrine that written memoranda
of subjects and events, pertinent to the issues in a case, made cotemporaneously with their taking place, and supported by the oath of the
person making them, are admissible in evidence for any other purpose
than to refresh the memory of that person as a witness.
When it does not appear that such a memorandum was made cotemporaneously with the happening of the events which it describes, it should not
be submitted to the jury.
If such a memorandum, made in a book containing other matter relating to
the issues which is not proper for submission to the jury, be admitted in
evidence, the leaves containing the inadmissible matter should not go
before the jury.
In such case it is not enough to direct the jury to take no notice of the
objectionable matter, but the leaves containing it should be sealed up and
protected from inspection by the jury before the book goes into the
conference room.
In Massachusetts, where an action in tort, grounded on fraud of the defendant, is commenced more than six years after the cause of action arose,
and the general statute of limitations applicable to actions sounding
in tort is set up, if the fraud is not secret in its nature, and such as
-cannot readily be ascertained, it is necessary to show some positive act
of concealment by the defendaynt, to take the case out of the operation
of that statute; and the mere silence of the defendant, or his failure to
inform the plaintiff of his cause of action, does not so operate.

OOTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

THIs was an action at law brought by Sarah A. Preble to
recover of the defendants Bates and Walley, stock brokers,
the value of certain securities, the property of the plaintiff,
which she alleged had been converted by the defendants to
their own use.
The facts were substantially as follows: Mrs. Preble, a
widow and a resident of Portland, Maine, acquired by her husband's will certain securities, consisting of stocks and bonds,
which she kept in a box in the vaults of the Union Safe
Deposit Company, in Boston. Upon the trial she gave evidence tending to show that she entrusted the key of the box
to her son, Edward Preble; that she visited the box herself
in 1878 and found all her securities there; that she next
visited it in the autumn of 1882 and found them all gone;
that at various times between these dates her son had abstracted
these securities from the box, to which she had given him
access, and had taken them to the defendants, who were stock
brokers, without authority from her, and that the defendants
had sold the securities for him; that Walley, one of the
defendants, had notice that the securities belonged to the
plaintiff and had fraudulently concealed from her the fact of
the conversion, and that she did not discover the conversion
until within six years before the bringing of the suit.
Defendants claimed that some of her securities they had
never sold or dealt with in any way; that others they had
received from Edward Preble, and had disposed of by his
directions and upon his account in the ordinary course of business, believing them to be his property; that they had no
knowledge or notice that any of the property belonged to
the plaintiff; that in fact some of the securities did not belong
to her, and that if she ever had any cause of action against
them for the conversion of these securities, the same arose
more than six years before the bringing of her suit, and hence
that such action was barred by the statute of limitations.'
The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff for $31,772.88
1 This statute of limitations will be found in the opinion of the court,
post, 158.

BATES v. PREBLE.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

damages, and handed to the court with their verdict a schedule
containing the special items upon which they held the defendants liable, showing the securities which they found to have
been converted by the defendants with the value of the same,
and the date of their conversion from which interest was
computed. * Upon motion for new trial, the court held that
there was no evidence to sustain the finding of the jury with
respect to certain of the securities; that the value of such
securities should be remitted from the verdict, or that a new
trial should be granted. Judgment was finally entered for'
the plaintiff for $28,496.52, being the amount of the verdict
less the amount remitted. Defendants sued out a writ of
error from this court.
Mir. Samuel Hoar for plaintiffs in error.
.M'. Robert X. -Morse and -Mr. Louis 0. Southard, for
defendant in error, made the following points in their brief
as to the seventh, eighth, and ninth assignments of error:
As to the admission of Mrs. Preble's memorandum book
and permitting it to go to the jury under certain instructions,
the portions of the book upon which the plaintiff relied were
a page from an earlier memorandum book which was pinned
into the book produced, and the first, second, third, fourth,
fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth leaves and page marked
" X," all of which were in the handwriting of the plaintiff.
The entries were original entries, and the fair interpretation
of the report of the evidence is that they were made in the
several years which they purport to cover.
These memoranda were simply schedules of the securities in
her box from 1877 to 1882. They were supplemented by the
oath of the plaintiff that they were her original entries and
that they were correct. It must be presumed by this court
that the appearance and character of the plaintiff's book indicated to the satisfaction of the judge at the trial that it was
kept honestly, carefully, and accurately.
That books of account containing original entries and supplemented by the testimony of the party who kept them, are

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

admissible in evidence is well established in the courts of the
United States, of Massachusetts, and of the States generally.
Insurance Co. v. Weide, 9 Wall. 677; Cogswell v. 9olliver,
2 Mass. 217; Princev. Smith, 4 Mass. 454; Smith v. Sanford,12
Pick. 139; S, . 22 Am. Dec. 415; Harwood v. Abtlry, 8 Gray,
250; Pratt v. White, 132 Mass. 477; .Miller v. Shay, 145 Mass.
162; Pasmore v. Passmore, 60 M ichigan, 463; Singer v.
Brockamp, 33 Minnesota, 501; Webster v. Clark, 30 N. H.
245; .A'errill v. Ithaca &c'Owego Railroad, 16 Wend. 586;
S. C. 30 Am. Dec. 130; Payne v. Hodge, 7 Hun, 612.
A book kept by a bank, containing entries of notices to
makers and endorsers of notes, accompanied by the testimony
of the clerk who kept the same, is admissible. Shove v. Wiley,
18 Pick. 558. See also Farmers'& Mechanics' Bank v. Boraef,
1 Rawle, 152.
Sheets of paper on which separate entries have been made
have been received. Hooper v. Taylor, 39 Maine, 224; Smith
v. Smith, 4 Harr. (Del.) 532; Taylor v. Tucker, 1 Georgia,
231. Also papers not evidence _per se, but found to have been
true statements of fact, are admissible in connection with the
testimony of a witness who made them. Insurance Companies v. Tfeides, 14 Wall. 375.
In many States notes of testimony or of conversations,
accompanied by the testimony of the person who made the
memoranda, have been admitted on similar grounds to those
on which the competency of books of account rests. Peole
v. Mu2phy, 45 California, 137; Labar v. Crane, 56 Michigan,
585; Halsey v. Sinsebaugh, 15 N. Y. 485; Clark v. Torce, 15
Wend. 193; S. C. 30 Am. Dec. 53; Huf v. Bennett, 4 Sandf.
120; .McAdams v. Stilwell, 13 Penn. St.790; Glass v. Beach, 5
Vermont, 172; -Marsh v. Jones, 21 Vermont, 378; . C. 52
Am. Dec. 67.
But it is unnecessary for the purposes of the case at bar to
determine how far memoranda made by a party are admissible
in evidence. The entries in the present case are of a character
and made at times which rendered them competent. If, however, the memoranda were not admissible the defendant was
not prejudiced by their admission.

-BATES

v. PREBLE.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

(1) As was said by Morton, C. J., in Miller v. Shay, 145
Mass. 162, 164, "The plaintiff had clearly the right to use his
account book to refresh and aid his memory. The fact that
the book went to the jury could not prejudice the defendant."

(2) The schedule, annexed to their verdict by the jury,
shows that, of all the securities mentioned on the various
pages of the plaintiff's book, the only ones on which the
verdict was based were eight Minneapolis bonds of $1000
each, one Eastern Illinois bond of $1000, three. Oregon :Railroad Navigation bonds of $1000 each, five Chicago Sewerage
Loan bonds of $1000 each, and two N. Y. & N. E. R. R. bonds
of $1000 each, and from the amount reckoned on this basis
the plaintiff remitted in accordance with the opinion of the
court the amount allowed for one of the Chicago Sewerage
bonds and for one of the Minneapolis bonds.
The defendant's ninth alleged error is to the ruling of the
court, permitting the rest of the plaintiff's book to go to the
jury without sealing up the same so that it could not be
examined by the jury.
It is to be presumed that the court found that it was not
practicable to seal up the rest of the book without impairing
the use to be made of the leaves which were in evidence.
At all events, it was within the discretion of the presiding
judge to send the book to the jury after instructing them not
to examine the parts which were not in .evidence. It will be
presumed that the jury followed these instructions.
An examination of the lart of the book not admitted in
evidence shows that there was nothing contained therein, even
if it had been read by the jury, which could have prejudiced
the defendant unless it was the statement as to the plaintiff's
dislike of the defendant Walley. But she had testified fully
as to the facts on which this feeling was based.
But it is'well settled that a paper which is in part legal
evidence and in part not, may go to the jury if they are
instructed to disregard the part which is not evidence. Commonwealth v. Wingate, 6 Gray, 485; Commnonwealth v. Dow,
11 Gray, 316.

OCTOBER TERiV, 1893..
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE

BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
There are thirty-four assignments of error in this case, many
of which are of little importance, and as we have come to the
conclusion that the case must be reversed and a new trial
ordered, it is neither necessary nor advisable that we should
dispose of them all.
(1) The seventh and eighth assignments are taken to the
admission of certain pages of a memorandum book purporting
to contain a list of securities owned by the plaintiff. Con,
cerning this book she testified that "it was her own book, in
her own handwriting, never seen by any one until it went
into the hands of counsel; that the entries were made in it
from time to time; that it showed the securities which she
had, which went into the box in the safe deposit vaults."
One page she testified was cut from an earlier book kept by
her, which was pinned into this book, and that page showed
what securities she had in her box in 1878. On cross-examination, she testified with reference to the first page, "that
the figures at the top in pencil she put there when she took
the page out of the other book and put it into that book.
Those figures in pencil were 1877 and 1878; that she did not
remember at what time she did this; that it was before 1882,
and was after she cut it out pf the other books; . . . that
she had no memorandum except what was on that paper in
the book; that some of it was written in ink and some in
pencil; that what was in ink was'written when it was in the
other book; that the pencil part was written after it was put
in this book; that the summing up was made by her, but was
not correct; that at the bottom of the page the value appeared
to be as of 1871; she did not know whether it was its correct
value in 1811 or 1877," etc. "That the entries in her memorandum book were not reliable; that she could not tell when
she made the entries upon them or when the figures were set
down; that she could not tell why she made the entries, nor
vhy she had struck out any of them." This book was sought
to be used, not for the purpose of refreshing the memory of

BATES

. PREBLE.

Opinion of the Court.

the witness, but was laid before the jury as independent
evidence of the character and value of the securities.
There is no doubt that books of account kept in the usual
and regular course of business, when supplemented by the
oath of the party who kept them, may be admitted in evidence. Insurance Company v. Feide, 9 Wall. 677; Cogswell
v. Dolliver, 2 Mass. 217; White v. Ambler, 8 N. Y. 170. But
whether this rule extends to memoranda made by a witness
contemporaneously with the event they purport to record, is.
open to very considerable doubt, elementary writers and
courts being about equally divided upon the subject. 1 Greenleaf's Evidence, section 437, note 3; 1 Smith's Leading Cases,
6th Am. ed. 508, 510. In New York they are held to be
admissible. Halsey v. Sinsebaugh, 15 N. Y. 485; -McCormick
v. Penn. Central Railroad,49 N. Y. 303, 315. The cases in
Massachusetts apparently favor a different view. Commonwealth v. Fox, 7 Gray, 585; Dugan v. Afahoney, 11 Allen,
572; Cornmonwealth v. Ford, 130 Mass. 64; Commonwealth.
v. Jeffs, 132 Mass. 5; Field v. T/iompson, 119 Mass. 151. In
this court it was held in Insurance Companies v. Weides,
14 Wall. 375, 380, that a statement in figures of the value of
certain merchandise destroyed by fire, which statement professed to be a copy of another statement contained in a book,
itself destroyed in the fire, accompanied by proof that on a
certain day the witness took a correct inventory of the merchandise, and that it was correctly reduced to writing by one
of them and entered in the volume burnt, and that what was
offered was a correct copy, was admissible in evidence in a
suit against the insurance company to fix the value of the
merchandise burnt, though there was no independent recollection by the witness of the value stated. In delivering the
opinion of the court Mr. Justice Strong observed: "How far
papers, not evidence per se, bui proved to have been true
statements of fact, at the time they were made, are admissible
in connection with the testimony of a witness who made
them, has been a frequent subject of inquiry, and it has been.
many times decided that they are to be received. And why.
should they not be? Quantities and values are retained in

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the memory with great difficulty. If at the time when an
entry of aggregate quantities or values was made the witness
knew it was correct, it is hard to see why it is not at least as
reliable as the memory of the witness." This case might have
been properly supported on the ground that they were entries
made in the usual course of business, since from the report of
a similar case (9 Wall. 677) this seems to have been the character of the entries. See also Chafee v. United States, 18 Wall.
516.
In lita'well v. Wilkinson, 113 U. S.656, a memorandum of
a transaction which took place twenty months before its date,
and which the person who made the memorandum testified
that he had no recollection of, but knew it took place because
he had so stated in the memorandum, and because his habit
was never to sign a statement unless it were true, was held to
be inadmissible. Many of the authorities are cited, but the
inadmissibility of the memorandum was put upon the ground
that it was made long after the transaction it purported to
state. The general question of the admissibility of such memoranda as independent evidence was not, however, decided.
In 'Ficksburg& Meridian Railroad v. O'Brien, 119 U. S.
99, which was an action against a railroad company by a
passenger to recover for personal injuries, a written statement
as to the nature and extent of his injuries, made by his physician while treating him for them, for the purpose of giving
information to others with regard to them, was held not to
be admissible in evidence against the company, even when
attached to the deposition of the physician, in which he swore
that it was written by him, and that in his opinion it correctly
stated the condition of the patient. Numerous authorities
were cited upon both sides of the general question as to the
admissibility of such memoranda, but the court held that the
case did not require an examination of such authorities, inasmuch as it did not appear but that at the time the witness
testified he had, "without even looking at his written statement, a clear, distinct recollection of every essential fact stated
in it. If he had such present recollection there was no necessity whatever for reading that paper to the jury."

BATES v. PREBLE.
Opinion of the Court.

We do not regard any of these cases as committing this court
to the general doctrine that such memoranda are admissible for
any other purpose than to refresh the memory of the witness.
But even if it were conceded that such a memorandum as
that in question made cotemporaneously with the deposit of
the securities, and properly authenticated by oath of the plaintiff, would be admissible as independent evidence, the testimony of the plaintiff fell far short of establishing the requisite
qualifications for its admission. It does not appear when the
memorandum was made, or that it was cotemporaneous with
the deposit of the securities. Upon the other hand, it seems
the entries were made from time to time, though not apparently as the securities were deposited in the box. Indeed, the
plaintiff swears directly that she could not tell when she made
the entries upon them, or when the figures were set down;
that she could not tell why she made the entries, or why she
struck out any of them, and that the entries were not reliable.
She further testified that she never "saw any Oregon Navigation six per cent bonds, and never saw or received any Eastern
Illinois bonds; . . . that she never had any New York
and New England seven per cent bonds in her possession, and
never saw them in her box; that she never saw any certificate
of Consolidated Virginia stock;" and yet entries relating to
these securities appear upon several of the pages of the book.
Upon two or three of the pages there is not an entry that has
the remotest connection with the question at issue, and it is
difficult to see any ground upon which these pages were
admitted.
Upon the whole, we think these memoranda, if inadmissible
for no other reason, were not sufficiently authenticated to
make it proper to submit them to the jury.
(2) By the ninth assignment of error it appears that after
the close of the case, and when the jury were about to retire
to consider their verdict, the court allowed the whole of the
memorandum book to go to the jury without any sealing or
other protection of the leaves and pages not put in evidence.
It appears that when the court admitted the leaves and pages
containing the memoranda above alluded to, it directed the

OCTOBER TERMf, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

rest of the book to be sealed up or otherwise protected from
the inspection of the jury; but that when the jury were about
to retire, the plaintiff offered to send the whole book without
such protection, and the court directed the jury not to examine
any part of the book except what was put in evidence, and
permitted the whole book with that instruction to go to the
jury. To this the defendants excepted. We think the court
should have adhered to its directions to take such measures as
were necessary to prevent the jury from seeing other portions
of the book, as they contained matter, which, though bearing
upon the issue, was wholly inadmissible as testimony, and was
calculated to create in the minds of the jury a strong prejudice
against the defendants. This error was not cured by the
instructions to the jury not to examine any part of the book
except what was put in evidence. Such instructions might
have healed the error, if the contents of the book had been
unimportant. But the objectionable portions in this case were
such as were likely to attract the eye of the jury, and accident
or curiosity would be likely to lead them, despite the admonition of the court, to read the plaintiff's comments upon the
defendants and her private meditations, which had no proper
place in their deliberations. The precise question involved
here arose in Kalamazoo ]Aovely Co. v. -McAlister, 36 Michigan, 327, where an entire book was suffered to be taken to the
jury room when but three pages were in evidence, and it was
held that the instruction not to look at the unproved part
should not be taken as relieving its admission to the jury room
from error. See also Commonwealth v. Edgerly, 10 Allen,
184; Stoudenmirne v. ffarpe , 81 Alabama, 242.
(3) The errors alleged in the 30th, 31st, and 32d assignments
relate to the instructions given by the court upon the applicability of the statute of limitations, and to the competency of
the testimony introduced to take the case out of the bar of
the statute. The Massachusetts statute provides as follows,
(Pub. Stat. M-lass. c. 197):
"SEC. 1. The following actions shall be commenced within

six years next after the cause of action accrues and not

afterwards.

.

.

BATES v. PREBLE.
Opinion of the Court.

*

"Fourth. All actions of tort, except those hereinafter mentioned.
"SEc. 14. If a person liable to any of the actions mentioned in this chapter fraudulently conceals the cause of such
action from the knowledge of the person entitled to bring the
same, the action may be commenced at any time within six
years after the person so entitled discovers that he has such
cause of action."
It is undisputed in this case that the embezzlements which
formed the subject of the action were committed between
1878 and 1882, and in the schedule brought in by the jury and
handed up with their verdict, interest was computed upon all
the securities alleged to have been converted from a date anterior to January 25, 1881. As the writ by which the action
was begun was dated January 25, 1887, the action would
appear to have been barred by the statute unless the evidence
was such as to justify the jury in finding that there had been
a fraudulent concealment of the embezzlement from the
knowledge of the plaintiff. If the statute had simply provided that the six years should run from the discovery of the
fraud, there could be no doubt of the right of the plaintiff to
maintain this action, as there is no evidence that she discovered
the fraud prior to her examination of the contents of her box
in 1882. Such seems to have been the rule in common law
actions, adopted by the Supreme Judicial Court of ]Xfassachusetts prior to the enactment of section 14. Homer v. Fih,
1 Pick. 435; Welles v. Fish, 3 Pick. 74; Farnam v. B rooNes,
9 Pick. 212, 244. In construing this statute, however, the
courts of Massachusetts have held in a number of cases that
the mere silence of the defendant, or his failure to inform the
plaintiff of the cause of action, is not such a fraudulent concealment as is contemplated by the statute, and that some
positive act of concealment must be proved. Thus, in .2udd
v. .Jambli, 8 Allen, 130, it was held that the omission to
disclose a trespass upon real estate to the owner, if there is no
fiduciary relation between the parties, and the owner has the
means of discovering the facts, and nothing has been done to
prevent his discovering them, is not such a fraudulent con-

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

cealment of the cause of action as will prevent the bar of the
statute. The court cited with approval the case of Cole v.
2fcGlathry, 9 Greeni. 131, in which the defendant had received from the plaintiff funds to pay certain debts, and
falsely affirmed that he had paid them. It was held that
though he was guilty of a breach of moral and legal duty,
having added falsehood to his neglect to pay, yet it was not
such a fraudulent concealment as would take the case out of
the statute, because the plaintiff had the means of discovering
the truth at all times by inquiry of the persons who should
have received the money. The court also cited the case of
X'cKown v. Whitmore, 31 Maine, 448. This was an action to
recover money which the defendant had agreed to deposit in
a certain bank for the plaintiff, and which he told the plain-,
tiff he had deposited. It was held that, even if this statement
was untrue, it did not constitute a fraudulent concealment,
because the plaintiff had at all times the means of discovering
the truth. In W~alker v. Soule, 138 Mass. 570, the action was
founded upon certain representations made by the defendant,
the administrator of an estate, that he was licensed by the
probate court to sell the real estate of his intestate; that he
had good right to sell it; that the title to it was good; and
that the deed, a copy of which was in evidence, was in proper
form and sufficient to pass the title. It was held that, as
these representations were as to the contents of public records,
which the plaintiff had full opportunity of examining, they
were not sufficient to prove a subsequent fraudulent concealment from the knowledge of the plaintiff. So in Abbott v.
2Hiorth Andover, 145 Mass. 484, it was held that the representation by a township officer that he had authority to bind the
town by the renewal of a promissory note, when in fact he
had no such authority, was not a fraudulent concealment by
the town of the cause of action, and hence that an action could
not be maintained on the note, of which this was a renewal,
which was not brought within six years.
On the other hand, if the fraud itself be secret in its nature,
and such that its existence cannot be readily ascertained, or if
there be fiduciary relations between the parties, there need be

BATES v: PREBLE.
Opinion of the Court.

no evidence of a fraudulent concealment other than that implied from the transaction itself. This is illustrated by the
case of the First -Massachusetts Turnpike Corfporation v.
Field, 3 Mass. 201, in which the defendants, having contracted
with the plaintiffs to make for them a turnpike road upon a
firm foundation, with suitable materials, etc., made a road
upon a bad foundation, using unsuitable materials and unfaithfully executed the work, and fraudulently and deceitfully concealed the foundation and materials by covering the same
with earth and smoothing the surface, so that it appeared to
the plaintiffs that the contract had been faithfully executed,
it was held that the contract was of such a nature as to admit
of a fraudulent and deceitful execution, and that the fraud
was in fact concealed from the knowledge of the plaintiffs.
So in 3fanufacturers' _National Bank v. Perry, 144 Mass.
313, a bank overpaid to the clerk of the defendant the sum of
$200 on a check drawn by the defendant. Defendant, being
notified by the clerk of the mistake, instructed him not to
return the money, and to deny to the bank that he had been
overpaid, which he did. It was held that his approval and
adoption of the lie told by the clerk to the bank teller were
active steps taken by him to prevent the bank from discovering the fact that he had received the money, and constituted
a fraudulent concealment of the plaintiff's cause of action. So
in Atlantic Bank v. _ar.ris,118 Mass. 147, 154, a state bank
paid to its president money which he falsely represented that
he had paid to an agent to whom the bank was indebted.
Subsequently the agent brought an action against the bank,
and recovered the amount due him. It was held, in an action
for money had and received, brought by the bank against the
president, that the court was warranted in finding that the
defendant had fraudulently concealed the cause of action from
the bank, on account of the peculiar relations between them.
"A bank," said the court, "must necessarily act through its
officers; its officer upon whom it relied in this instance was
the defendant, who had charge of this particular transaction
with Pierce, and he who should have disclosed the cause of
action, was the party engaged in concealing it." See also
VOL. CL-l

OCTOBER TERMr, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Wood v. Ca'penter, 101 U. S. 135; Pelix v. Patrick, 145
U. S. 317.
In this connection the court in the case under consideration
charged the jury as follows:
"Now, gentlemen, I shall charge you as matter of law this:
That if you believe that the defendants here were not guilty
of any fraud in these transactions, if you believe that they
took these negotiable securities in, if you please, the ordinary course of their business and sold them, then Mrs.
Preble would not have a right in this case to bring suit for
anything that took place prior to January, 1881; but, on
the contrary, if from the evidence you believe that Walley, one of the defendants, conspired with young Preble to
obtain these bonds and afterwards to conceal the fact from
the mother, he, Edward, having the key to the safety box
containing the securities, this would be evidence going to
prove a fraudulent concealment of the cause of action, such as
would bring it within the exception of the statute. So that,
gentlemen, whether there was a fraudulent concealment of the
transaction such as would make Mrs. IPreble's whole claim good
here turns upon the question whether you believe from the
evidence which has gone in before you that the defendants
here acted in the ordinary course of their business, or whether
you believe upon the evidence that one of the defendants,
Walley, was a co-conspirator with Preble in these transactions, and that young Preble also had the key to his mother's
safe, so that, if you please, his mother with great difficulty
could obtain access to it or knowledge as to whether those
securities existed or not. Those rules of law, gentlemen, you
will apply upon the subject of the statute of limitations."
We think the court erred in this instruction. It assumes
that the same evidence which tended to show a conspiracy
between Edward Preble and the defendants to obtain these
bonds was also evidence of an intention on defendants' part to
keep a knowledge of the transaction from the plaintiff. This,
however, does not necessarily follow. If it did, the result
would be that whenever a party has been guilty of a fraud,
which it is for his interest should not be known by the per-

BATES v. PREBLE.
Opinion of the Court.

son upon whom it is committed, he would practically lose the
benefit of the statute, though he may not have made the
slightest effort to keep it secret. The vice of the instruction
in this particular was that there was no evidence whatever
that the defendants, or either of them, said or did anything
before or after the securities came into their hands, to conceal the transaction from the plaintiff. There was no claim
that the defendant Bates knew anything about it. Defendant Walley was the active partner in the transaction, and
there is nothing to indicate that he made any effort at concealment. While he sometimes called at the plaintiff's house,
it does not appear that he ever spoke to her about business
until the autumn of 1882, when he called upon her and told
her that her son was in trouble and had been arrested in New
.York. Upon plaintiff offering to raise money and assist him
by the sale of some of her bonds and stock, he then informed
her that he was afraid they were lost. Within two or three
days after that she went to the vault and found that they had
been abstracted. Granting that the relations between Edward Preble and his mother were such as to make a revelation
of the facts a duty upon his part, there was no such confidential relation between the plaintiff and defendants as would
cause silence upon their part to be imputed as a'fraud. Even
admitting that they and Edward Preble were co-conspirators,
and that they were responsible for his acts connected with
such conspiracy, it would be carrying the doctrine to an unwarrantable extent to hold that his subsequent silence upon
the subject could be chargeable -to them.
Without discussing the other assignments we think the case
should be
.Zeversed and r'emanded to the Circuit Court with inastruction8 to set aside the verdict and grant a new trial.

