OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

interested in performing, or intended to perform, or that the
State regarded it as performing, the condition in question for
or in behalf of the Portage Company. That would make the
Omaha Company do something for another corporation which
it did not elect to do, and was not in law bound to do.
" Many other questions have been discussed by the counsel
of the respective parties, about which the court forbears any
expression of opinion. Their determination is rendered unnecessary by the conclusions reached upon the principal
points."

FAMOUS SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE OIROUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 1003. Submitted November 15, 1893. -Decided January 0, 1894.
A Cherokee Indian being indicted in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Western District of Arkansas for the murder of a white man, it
was set up in defence that the murdered man was also an Indian, and
that the court was therefore without jurisdiction. The evidence for the
defence showed that the murdered man was generally recognized as an
Indian, tirat his reputed father -was so recognized, and that he himself
was enrolled, and had participated in the payment of bread money to the
Cherokees. To offset this the government showed that he had not been
permitted to vote at a Cherokee election, but it also appeared that he had
not been in the district long enough to vote. Held,
(1) That the burden was on the prosecution to prove that he was a
white man;
(2) That the testimony offered by the government had no legitimate
tendency to prove that the murdered man was not an Indian.

Tins was a writ of error to review the conviction of the
plaintiff in error for the murder of one James Gentry, alleged
to have been "a white man and not an Indian," on August 1,
1883, in the Cherokee Nation, Indian Territory. The case
was tried before the Circuit Court of the United States for the

FAMOUS SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

Western District of Arkansas at the May term of 1893, and
the prisoner convicted and sentenced to death. Thirty-four
assignments of error were contained in the record, none of
which were considered except the first and last, which raised
the question of the jurisdiction of the court, arising from the
fact that both the accused and the deceased were Indians.
.Mr. A. H. Garlandfor plaintiff in error.
.31r. Assistant Attorney General Whitney, for defendants in
error, to the point on which the case turns in this court, said:
We do not understand that there is any difference between
civil and criminal cases as to the necessity of presenting questions properly to this court, or as to the mode in which they
should be presented, except where there may be some specific
statutory provision relating to one or the other class of cases.
Its decisions, since it received general criminal jurisdiction,
seem to recognize that it exercises no wider jurisdiction than
is given by the ancient practice with relation to writs of
error. Alexander v. United States, 138 U. S. 353, 355; .lloore
v. United States, 150 U. S. 57; Holder v. United States, 150
U. S. 91.
Can the jurisdictional question be now raised, not having
been raised at the trial? It was conceded at the trial that the
evidence was conflicting. The only objections raised by the
prisoner's counsel in this regard were objections to remarks of
the court in submitting the evidence to the jury. Can this
court decide that evidence was not conflicting which was
admitted at the trial to be conflicting? It is familiar law
that in civil cases jurisdictional objections may be taken by
the court itself. This, however, results from statutory provisions applicable only to civil cases, and before these provisions were enacted the law upon the point was regarded as
uncertain. Act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, ยง 5; Williams v.
-Nottawa,101 U. S. 209, 211. For criminal cases there is no
such statute. Except as to jurisdictional objections, there
seems to be no doubt that the court, upon a writ of error, can

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

look into the bill of exceptions only to decide questions which
are raised by a specific exception. The only points that can
be raised here without an exception are errors or defects in
the other portions of the record; that is, matters not resting
on parol, such as those discussed in Slacum v. Pomery, 6 0ranch,
221, 225; Garland v. Davis, 4 How. 131; Bennett v. Butterworth, 11 How. 669; Suydam v. Williamson, 20 How. 427,
433; Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wall. 654, 661; Hew Orleans
Railroad v. .Morgan, 10 Wall. 256, 260; Insurance Co. v.
Piaggio,16 Wall. 378, 386 ; Clinton v. Missouri Pacefe Railway, 122 U. S. 469, 474; Moline Plow Co. v. Wel'1, 141 U. S.
616, 623. A bill of exceptions, as we understand the practice, is intended only to present the testimony bearing upon
specific exceptions taken, and cannot be turned into a statement of facts for any other purpose. Pomeroy's Lessee v.
Bank of Indiana, I Wall. 592, 602; Hanna v. iMaas, 122
U. S. 24, 26. But see Bassett v. United States, 137 U. S. 496,
501; East Tennessee &c. Railroad v. Southern Telegraph Co.,
125 U. S. 695.
To decide whether Gentry was an Indian at all, it would
be necessary first to ascertain the presumption in the absence
of evidence. The evidence on the point is not controlling
either way. It may be classed under three heads: First,
statements of Gentry himself to various parties; second, general, though not universal, belief of his neighbors, based on
his own statements; third, his personal appearance. We do
not find any decision fixing the presumption in such a case in
the absence of proof. The general rule is, however, that if
the defendant belongs to a class of persons not subject to the
jurisdiction of the court, that fact is not one to be negatived
by the indictment or declaration, but one to be set up affirmatively by a plea or answer. Thus it has never been supposed
that one should negative in declaration or indictment the possibility of defendant's being a foreign minister or consul. See
also 1 Bishop Orim. Proc. ยง 513. It would be almost impossible
to administer justice in the Indian Territory if the District
Attorney were obliged to prove affirmatively the American citizenship of the defendant. The Territory is swarming not only

FAMOUS SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

with quarter-breeds, but with whites, who have a rightful
claim to citizenship; it swarms also with white men who
claim such citizenship without a shadow of foundation. If
the onus of proving which nation he really belongs to is cast
upon the criminal, the courts are far more likely to obtain
accurate information on the subject.
MR.

JusTio. B1owN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This case, so far as we have found it necessary to consider
it, raises but a single question, namely, whether, Smith being
admitted to be a Cherokee Indian, born and raised in the
Cherokee :Nation, and a citizen of that nation, the undisputed
testimony did not also show Gentry to have been an Indian.
If this were the case, then it is clear the court had no jurisdiction of the offence. By Rev. Stat. ยง 2145, (c. 4, Tit. 28,)
relating to the "government of Indian country," it is provided "that except as to crimes the punishment of which is
expressly provided for in this Title, the general laws of the
United States as to the punishment of crimes committed in
any place within the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States, except the District of Columbia, shall extend
to the Indian country." But by ยง 2146, as amended by the
act of February 18, 1875, 18 Stat. 318, c. 80, "the preceding
section shall not be construed to extend to crimes committed
by one Indian against the person or property of another
Indian, nor to any Indian committing any offence in the
Indian country who has been punished by the local law of
the tribe, nor to any case where, by treaty stipulations, the
exclusive jurisdiction over such offences is or may be secured
to the Indian tribes respectively." As we held in irT re .Jfayfeld, 141 U. S. 107, there is nothing in the treaty of July 19,
1866, between the United States and the Cherokee Nation, 14
Stat. 799, which renders this statute inapplicable or indicates
that the Circuit Courts of the United States have jurisdiction
of crimes committed by one Indian against the person or
property of another.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon this point a number of witnesses were sworn, who all
stated that Gentry claimed to be a Cherokee Indian, and
looked like one, having the dark hair, eyes, and complexion
of an Indian, and that he was generally recognized as one.
Kajo Gentry, his reputed father, appears to have been either
of Cherokee blood or mixed Creek and Cherokee. He also
was recognized as an Indian, and appears to have been enrolled and participated in the payment of "bread money" to
the Cherokees.
The only testimony to the contrary tended to show that, in
1883, Gentry was not permitted to vote at an election held in
the Cherokee Nation, but it also appeared that it was because
be had not been in the district long enough. To entitle him
to vote at an election he must not only have been a citizen of
the Cherokee Nation, but must have resided in the particular
district where he offered to vote six months prior thereto.
There was also some testimony tending to show that Gentry
had lived for some time, but it does not appear how long, in
southern Arkansas, and came to the Cherokee Nation by the
way of the Choctaw Nation.
In this connection the court charged the jury in substance
that, to give the court jurisdiction, it was necessary to charge
in the indictment that Gentry was a white man and not an
Indian. "The meaning of that is, that he was a citizen of
the United States; or, more correctly speaking, a jurisdictional
citizen of the United States." That if he were, notwithstanding the defendant was an Indian, the court still had jurisdiction. That in this connection it was important "to ascertain
whether he has been recognized legally by the authorities of
that country as a citizen thereof." That "if a man is an
Indian by blood, and if he goes out and lives among the white
people, abandons his country, lives among white people, who
are citizens of the United States, and performs the duty belonging to citizenship, or exercises the rights that pertain
thereto, that that is evidence on his part of a purpose to
abandon the relation he may have to that country and to its
people, and he may abandon it in that way so as to cause him
to become a jurisdictional citizen of the United States." That

FAMOUS SMITH v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the jury also had a right to consider that, if he were related
there, his relatives took no interest in him when killed, etc.
Exceptions were duly taken to this portion of the charge.
That Gentry was a white man, and not an Indian, was a
fact which the government was bound to establish, and if it
failed to introduce any evidence upon that point, defendant
was entitled to an instruction to that effect. Without expressing an opinion as to the correctness of the legal propositions embodied in this charge, we think there was no testimony
which authorized the court to submit to the jury the question
whether Gentry was a white man and not an Indian. The
objection went to the jurisdiction of the court, and if no other
reasonable inference could have been drawn from the evidence
than that Gentry was an Indian, defendant was entitled, a
matter of law, to an acquittal. Pleasants v. Fant, 22 Wall.
116; Commissioner of i3farion County v. Oleark, 94 U. S.
278; -farshall v. Hubbard,"117 U. S. 415.
The testimony offered by the government had no legitimate
tendency to prove that he was not an Indian. The evidence
that he was not permitted to vote in the Canadian district,
where the murder was committed, was explained by the fact
that he had not resided in the district the six months required
by law to entitle him to vote, and by the fact that one of the
judges of election told him that he had no doubt that he was
an Indian. Nor did the fact that Gentry said he lived in
southern Arkansas, without any evidence showing how he
came to live there, under what circumstances, or how long he
lived there, constitute any evidence of his being a white man,
or that, being an Indian, he had severed his tribal relations and
become a citizen of the United States.
It was held by this court in Mk-'v. IWlkins, 112 U. S. 94,
that an Indian, born a member of one of the Indian tribes
within the United States, which still exists and is recognized
as a tribe by the government of the United States, who has
voluntarily severed himself from his tribe, and taken up his
residence among the white citizens of a State, but who has not
been naturalized, taxed, or recognized as a citizen, either by
the State or by the United States, is not a citizen of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

United States within the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution. Much more is that the case where it appears that
the Indian was but temporarily a resident of a State, the
length of his residence not being shown, and that he had
done nothing to indicate his intention to sever his tribal
relations.
Upon the testimony in this case, we think the defendant
was entitled to an instruction that the court had no jurisdiction, and its judgment must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded with directions to set aside

the verdict, and for further proceedings in conforrity
with this opinion.

WILSON v. OSWEGO TOWNSHIP.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 175. Argued and submitted December 20, 1893. -Decided

January 3, 1894.

A township in Kansas delivered twenty-two of its bonds to a railroad company to aid in the construction of the company's road. The company
contracted with B. to construct the road, and to receive these bonds in
part payment. The bonds were delivered during the progress of the
work to B., and to M., a non-resident of Missouri, as trustee, jointly,
and were by them deposited in a Missouri savings institution in St.
Louis to remain there until the completion of the work, and then to be
delivered to B. upon the demand of himself and M1.. B., claiming that he
had performed all the work under his contract, demanded the bonds.
The association refused to deliver them except upon the joint order of
B. and Al.. B. brought suit in St. Louis to recover them, making the association and the company defendants and serving process upon them, and
making M. a defendant and serving upon him by publication. The
township on its own motion intervened and was made party defendant..
The savings association, 21., and the township each answered separately.
The railroad company was not served with process and made no answer.
MI. and the township then petitioned for the removal of the cause to the
Circuit Court of the United States, setting forth that they were citizens
of Kansas, that the plaintiff was a citizen of Missouri, and that the savings association had no interest in the result of the controversy. The
prayer of the petition was granted, the cause was removed, and it
proceeded to judgment in the Circuit Court. Held,

