CHA

MAN v. -HANWDLEY.
Syllabus.

court, it was held that this was not error, because the personal
conduct and administration of the judge in the discharge of
his separate functions were not practice or pleading, or a form
or method of proceeding, within the meaning of those terms
in the act of Congress. A similar ruling was made in Indianapolis & St. Louis Railroad v. Horst, 93 U. S. 291. There a
state statute prescribed that the judge should require the jury to
answer special interrogatories in addition to finding a general
verdict. This court held that such a state regulation did not
apply to the courts of the United States. The doctrine of
these cases was approved and applied in Chateaugay Iron Co.,
Petitioner,128 U. S. 541, where it was held that the practice
and rules of the state court do not apply to proceedings taken
in a Circuit Court of the United States for the purpose of
reviewing in this court a judgment of such Circuit Court, and
that such rules and practice, regulhting the preparation, settling, and signing of a bill of exceptions, are not within "the
practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding"
which are required by section 914 of the Revised Statutes to
conform "as near as may be" to those "existing at the time
in like causes in the courts of record of the State."
Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the court below
committed no error, and its judgment is, accordingly,
Afflrmed.

CPIAPMAN v. IIANDLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 206. Submitted January 17, 1894.-Decided January 29, 1894.

Under the statutes of the Territory of Utah relating to the distribution of
the personal property of a deceased person among those entitled to share
in the distribution, the claims of the distributees are several, and not
joint; and when the claims of each are less than the amount necessary
to give this court jurisdiction, two or more cannot be joined, in order to
raise the sum in dispute to the jurisdictional amount.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Xr. J. G. Sutherland for appellants.
-Mr. E. D. Hoge and Mr. Arthur Brown for appellees.
Mr. CHIEF JUsTIcE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
Ruth A. Newsom, ne Handley, Benjamin T. Handley,
Harvey L. Handley, and Sarah A. Chapman filed their petition in the probate court of Salt Lake County, Utah Territory,
in the matter of the estate of George Handley, deceased, setting forth the death of said George Handley, May 25, 1874,
intestate; the appointment and qualification of Elizabeth, his
widow, as administratrix of his estate, April 12, 1888; the
expiration of the time for the presentation of claims after publication of notice; the filing of the inventory of said estate
describing certain real property; the sale of a portion
under order of court and payment of the account for which
the money obtained through such sale was needed, leaving
a balance on hand; the filing of a final account and the fixing
of a day for hearing thereon; and proceeding thus:
"Said George Handley died, leaving him surviving the said
Elizabeth Handley, his widow, and his eight children and
heirs-at-law, named, respectively, John Handley, William F.
Handley, Charles T. Handley, Emma Handley, Ruth A. Newsom, Benjamin T. Handley, Mary F. Handley, and Harvey L.
Handley. The four first named are the children of said
deceased and said Elizabeth, his lawful wife, and the last four
were children of said deceased and your petitioner, Sarah A.
Chapman, his plural wife according to the tenets and rites of
the Mormon Church; that all said children are now living
except Mary Handley, who died, without issue or having been
married, on the 28th day of September, 1879; that all said
children are of age except said Harvey Handley, who is sixteen years of age.
"Your petitioners therefore pray that they may be recog-

CHAPMAN v. HANDLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

nized as heirs-at-law of said George Handley, deceased, equally
with said four children of said deceased first above named,
your petitioner, Sarah A. Chapman, as mother in place and as
representative of said 'Mary Handley, deceased, and that after
the hearing upon said acount of said administratrix that the
said estate may be divided among and distributed to said
heirs-at-law according to their respective interests; that onehalf of said estate may be apportioned to your petitioners."
The record does not contain the order of the probate court
on this petition, but it otherwise appears and is conceded that
the prayer of the petitioners was denied. Thereupon an
appeal was taken therefrom by petitioners to the District
Court for the Third Judicial District of the Territory and the
county of Salt Lake, by which special findings of fact and
conclusions of law were filed, and it was ordered that the
petition be dismissed.
The petitioners appealed to the Supreme Court of Utah
Territory, and the judgment of the District Court was
affirmed. The pending appeal was then taken to this court.
The total value of the estate in controversy was found to
be $25,000, and counsel for appellants thus states his case:
"George Handley died May 25, 1874, leaving Elizabeth
Handley, who was his lawful wife, and their four children,
(the respondents,) and four children by a plural wife, one of
whom died in infancy, her interest, now represented by her
mother as heir, (the appellants). The court below distributed
the entire estate to the lawful wife and her four children,
holding that the children of the plural wife were not entitled
to inherit. A statute enacted by the legislative assembly of
Utah, in 1852, provided: 'Section 25. Illegitimate children
and their mothers inherit in like manner from the father,
whether acknowledged by him or not, provided it shall be
made to appear to the satisfaction of the court that he was
the father of such illegitimate child or children' (Compiled
Laws Utah, 1876, § 677);" that the Supreme Court held that
this legislation was disapproved and annulled by the act of
Congress of July 1, 1862, c. 126, 12 Stat. 501, and that this
was error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The application to the probate court was, in legal effect, for
distribution only, and can be given no wider scope, notwithstanding the language used in the prayer of the petition; and
as the distributive shares, if the petitioners were included,
could not reach the sum necessary t8 give this court jurisdiction, we are obliged to dismiss the appeal.
It is true that there are cases where there are several plaintiffs interested collectively under a common title where jurisdiction may be maintained, but this case does not fall within
that category.
The claims of distributees are several and not joint, and
a joint application for distribution can only result in judgments
in severalty. By sections 4261 and 4262 of the Compiled Laws
of Utah, 1888, vol. 2, p. 529, it is provided that upon the final
settlement of the accounts of an executor or administrator, on
his application or that of any heir, legatee, or devisee, the court
shall proceed to distribute among the persons by law entitled
thereto; and that in the order or decree the court must name
the persons and the proportions or parts to which each shall
be entitled, and such persons may demand and sue for and
recover their respective shares, in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
It is the distinct and separate share of each distributee that
is involved in the proceeding, and although in this instance, if
the children of the plural wife had been admitted to share
they would have obtained, and an amount in excess of five
thousand dollars would have been withdrawn, from the other
children, the gain on the one side and the diminution on the
other would have been proportionately as to each, and not in
the aggregate as to all.
Under such circumstances it is the settled rule that the writ
of error or appeal cannot be sustained. Gibson v. Shufeldt,
122 U. S. 27; Miller v. Clark, 138 U. S. 223; Henderson v.
Ccrbondale Coal Co., 140 U. S. 25; New Orleans Pacif§ Railway v. Parker, 143 U. S. 42.
Appeal dismissed.

