OCTOBER TEIN, 1893.
Syllabus.

which he bought and the confirmation of his purchase, as well
as the order directing another sale of the lands. And yet he
was not notified that any steps were being taken to annul his
purchase and to cancel his deed. When appellees present a
decree of sale under which they purchased the lands, and, in
virtue of that decree and the sale had under it, claim the lands,
Halliday may well say, "Whatever may be the rights of
Craig's estate in respect to the lands, and whatever may be
your right to the proceeds of the sale at which I purchased,
you cannot claim the lands purchased by me under a former
decree, which sale occurred with your consent, and which
purchase was confirmed and a deed made to me without
objection from you." And this position is consistent with the
principles of equity.
As the decree of sale under which Halliday bought does
not appear to be void for want of jurisdiction in the court
which rendered it, and as, pending Whitaker's appeal, the sale
at which Halliday purchased took place with the assent of the
present appellees, and was confirmed by the court without
objection from them, the appellant should have been awarded,
as against them, the relief asked by him.
The decree is 'reversed and the cause remandedfor further
_proceedings consistent with this opinion.

IOWA v. ILLINOIS.
ORIGINAL.
N0.5. Original.

Submitted December 11, 1893.-Decided January 15, 1894.

At October term, 1892, an order was made appointing commissioners "to
locate and mark the state line between the States of Iowa and Illinois,
pursuant to the opinion of this court in this cause," reported in 147
U. S. 1. At the same term the commissioners filed a report of their
doings, which was ordered to be confirmed, and it was further ordered
" that said commissioners proceed to determine and mark the boundary
line between said States throughout its extent, and report thereon to

IOWA v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.
this court, with all convenient speed." At the present term the State of
Illinois moved to set aside the order of confirmation. The State of Iowa
resisted on the ground, among others, that the decree of confirmation was
a final decree, which could not be set aside at a term subsequent to that
at wbich it was entered. Held, that the confirmation of the report was
not a final decree deciding and disposing of the whole merits of the
cause, and discharging the parties from further attendance; that the
court could not dispose of the case by piecemeal; and that until
the boundary line throughout its extent is determined, all orders in the
case will be interlocutory.
In the exercise of original jurisdiction in the determination of the boundary
line between sovereign States, this court proceeds only upon the utmost
circumspection and deliberation, and no order can stand in respect of
which full opportunity to be heard has not been afforded.

THis was a motion to set aside a decree entered in this cause
at October term, 1892.
The case is stated in the opinion.
.Ib,. X. T. Moloney, Attorney General of the State of
Illinois, uI&. A. I. Green, and Mr'. Eenry S. Robbins for the
motion.
AXr. John Y. Stone, Attorney General of the State of Iowa,
Xib,. John F. Lacey, .Mr. Febi [T. Hughes, and Mr. James C.
-Davisopposing.
MRi. CHMF JUSTIOE FuLL,-E

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was an original suit in equity instituted in this court to
determine the boundary line between the States of Iowa and
Illinois, and considered upon submission on the pleadings and
the briefs of counsel.
On the third of January, 1893, the question at issue was
decided, Iowa v. Blinois, 147 U. S. 1, and an interlocutory
decree entered, whereby it was "ordered, adjudged, and declared by this court that the boundary line between the State
of Iowa and the State of Illinois is the middle of the main
navigable channel of the Mississippi River at the places where

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the nine bridges mentioned in the pleadings cross said river;
and it is further ordered that a commission be appointed to
ascertain and designate at said places the boundary line
between the two States, said commission consisting of three
competent persons, to be named by the court upon suggestion
of counsel, and be required to make a proper examination, and
to delineate on maps prepared for that purpose the true line
as determined by this court, and report the same to the court
for its further action."
March 6, 1893, a joint request was filed in this court, dated
January 19, 1893, signed by the attorneys general of the two
States concerned, requesting the appointment of certain persons therein suggested as commissioners to fix the boundary
line, and that the line be located at once at the Keokuk and
Hamilton bridge, and on the next day an order was entered
in accordance with this request, as follows: "It is ordered
that said Montgomery Meigs, John R. Carpenter, and Albert
Wempner be, and they are hereby, appointed commissioners
to locate and mark the state line between the States of Iowa
and Illinois, pursuant to the opinion of this court in this cause,
at each of the nine bridges across the -Mississippi River between these States. And inasmuch as there is an emergency
existing therefor, it is ordered that said commissioners proceed
at once to ascertain and mark the boundary line between said
States at the Keokuk and Hamilton bridge, and report at once
their action in that regard before proceeding to ascertain the
line or mark the same at the other bridges, and that afterward
they determine and mark the said state line at the other eight
bridges when requested by either party, and report the same.
That before entering upon their duties they take and forward
to the clerk of this court, to be filed, an oath that they will
faithfully perform their duties as such commissioners, under
the decision rendered in this cause, to the best of their ability.
That the clerk of this court furnish to said commissioners a
copy of this order, and the opinion of the court in this cause."
The commissioners filed their report March 30, 1893, as to
the boundary line at the bridge mentioned, and on the same
day the State of Iowa moved for an order confirming the re-

IOWA v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

port, counsel making the application being advised that it was
consented to on behalf of the State of Illinois.

On April 10,

1893, an order was entered in these words: "This cause coming on to be heard upon the application of the State of Iowa
for an order confirming the report of the commissioners, presented herein, ascertaining and marking the boundary line
between the State of Illinois and the State of Iowa, at the
Keokuk and Hamilton bridge at Keokuk, Iowa, it is ordered
that the said report be, and the same is hereby, confirmed;
and it is further ordered that said commissioners proceed to
determine and mark the boundary line between said States
throughout its extent, and report thereon to this court, with
all convenient speed, and that the order herein entered on
March 't, 1893, be, and it is hereby, modified in accordance
herewith."
As will be seen, these proceedings were had at October
term, 1892. The State of Illinois on October 11, 1893, one of
the first days of October term, 1893, by leave of court, moved
to set aside the order confirming the report of the commissioners filed as before stated, upon the ground that notice
was not given of the application for the confirmation of said
report, and that the consent of the State was signified to the
court through mistake and inadvertence. This motion was
resisted by the State of Iowa, and numerous affidavits have
been filed on both sides.
We are satisfied, upon a careful examination of the papers,
that counsel were laboring under misapprehension in the
matter of the application for the confirmation, and that the
order of the tenth of April was improvidently entered in that
the State of Illinois had not received due notice of the application and had not consented to the order. It is unnecessary
to rehearse the facts and ctrcumstances which led to the misapprehension. It is objected by the State of Iowa that the
order of April 10 was a final finding and decree, and that it
cannot be changed or set aside upon motion at a term of court
subsequent to that at which it was entered; but we regard
the order as interlocutory merely. The confirmation of the
report was but a step in the cause and not a final decree deVOL. cIx-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

ciding and disposing of the whole merits of the cause, and
discharging the parties from further attendance. We cannot
dispose of the case by piecemeal, and until the boundary line
throughout its extent is determined, all orders in the case will
be interlocutory.
In the exercise of original jurisdiction in the determination
of the boundary line between sovereign States, this court proceeds only upon the utmost circumspection and deliberation,
and no order can stand in respect of which full opportunity to
be heard has not been afforded. Without intimating any
opinion on the controversy raised as to the action of the commissioners,

The order of April 10, 1893, so far as it confirms the report
in question, will be vacated, and it is so ordered.

In re BONNER, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 8. Original. Argued November 27, 28, 1893.-Decided January 15, 1894.

When a person accused of crime is convicted in a court of the United
States and is sentenced by the court, under Rev. Stat. ยง 5356, to imprisonment for one year and the payment of a fine, the court is without
jurisdiction to further adjudge that that imprisonment shall take place in
a state penitentiary under Rev. Stat. ยง 5546; and the prisoner, if sentenced to be confined in a state penitentiary, is entitled to a writ of
habeas corpus directing his discharge from the custody of the warden of
the state penitentiary, but without prejudice to the right of the United
States to take any lawful measures to have the petitioner sentenced in
accordance with law upon the verdict against him.
Where a conviction is correct, and where the error or excess of jurisdiction
is the ordering the prisoner to be confined in a penitentiary where the
law does not allow the court to send him, there is no good reason why
jurisdiction of the prisoner should not be reassumed by the court that
imposed the sentence, in order that its defect may be corrected.
The court discharging the lirisoner in such case on habeas cous should
delay his discharge for such reasonable time as may be necessary to have
him taken before the court where the judgment was rendered, in order
that the defects in the former judgment for want of jurisdiction, which
are the subjects of complaint, may be corrected.

