TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. SAUNDERS.

105

Syllabus.

stands we perceive no aspect in which that order can be treated
as operating in limitation of the rights of defendant in error
except in the particular of resort to the Circuit Court as above
indicated.
From these considerations we conclude that there was no
error in the result arrived at by the Supreme Court of Texas
in the disposition of Federal questions, and its judgment is
accordingly
Affirmed.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. GRIFFIx.
TEXAS & PACIFIC
RAILWAY v. OVERHEISER. Error to the Supreme Court of the

State of Texas. Nos. 136 and 137. Argued with No. 138, ante,
81.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER: These cases are reported in
76 Texas, 437, 441, and involve here the same questions as those
in the case above decided.
The judgments are, severally,
Affirmed.

31r. John F. Dillon, (with whom was Mr. Winslow S. Pierce on
the brief,) for plaintiff in error.

1r. H. J. May, (with whom was Mr. 0. A. Culberson and Mr.
A. H. Garlandon the brief,) for defendants in error.

TEXAS

AND

PACIFIC RAILWAY
SAUNDERS.

COMPANY

v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 162. Submitted December 13, 1893.-Decided

January 3, 1894.

This writ of error is dismissed because the judgment does not exceed the
sum of $5000, exclusive of costs, and the jurisdiction of the court below
was not involved within the meaning of the act of February 25, 1889, 25
Stat. 693, c. 236, empowering this court to review the judgments of Circuit Courts when such is the fact.
An objection that an action is brought in the wrong district cannot be
raised after the defendant has pleaded in bar.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

THIs was an action brought by Henry Saunders, June 4,
1888, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Texas against John C. Brown, the receiver of the
Texas and Pacific Railway Company, to recover danages for
injuries sustained by Saunders through the negligence of the
receiver, his agents, and employ~s, as he alleged. On February 6, 1889, plaintiff below filed an amended petition making
the railway company a party defendant, and alleging the discharge of the receiver and the surrender of its property to the
company, without sale, improved by the expenditure of some
millions of dollars in betterments paid for out of, and augmented by property, both real and personal, purchased with
the earnings during the receivership; and further, that under
the order turning over the property, the company took it
charged with the receiver's liabilities, which included plaintiff's claim, and that on that account, as well as because plaintiff was entitled to a lien on the betterments and property
acquired by the use of the earnings, the company was liable to
plaintiff; and he prayed for judgment and for general relief.
The death of defendant Brown was suggested and the cause
dismissed as to him. The company filed a demurrer and
answered on September 12, 1889, assigning as ground of
demurrer that the petition showed no cause of action, and
answering by a general denial, and the averment of contributory negligence.
On September 23, 1889, the railway company, by counsel
and not in its own person, further answered, pleading: (1)
"That at the time plaintiff was injured the Texas and Pacific
Railway and all its property was in the possession and control
of John C. Brown, as receiver, appointed by the United States
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana. Defendant says that on October 31, 1888, the said John C. Brown
was discharged from his trust as receiver by an order made
October 26, 1888, in the United States Circuit Court for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and he was ordered to deliver
all property in his hands to the defendant, and the defendant
was ordered to receive said property, and did receive it on
October 31, 1888, charged with all traffic liability due by the

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. SAUNDERS. 107
Statement of the Case.

receiver to connecting lines, charged with the performance of
all contracts made by the receiver, and charged with the payment of all judgments that may be rendered in favor of claimants who may intervene in the cause of the .iMssouri Paciffio
Railway or~any v. The Texas and Pacific Railway Company, in the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, at New Orleans, prior to February 1, 1889,
and free from all other demands or claims arising against the
receiver and prior to October 31, 1888. Defendant says that
plaintiff did not intervene in said cause prior to February 1,
1889. Wherefore the defendants say they are not liable at
suit of plaintiff in this court, and, if liable at all, they are only
liable upon due intervention of plaintiff at New Orleans, as is
provided by the order of discharging said receiver; which
order is hereby attached and made a part of this plea. Wherefore they pray that this cause be dismissed." (2) Defendant
"demurs to plaintiff's petition, and says said petition shows
no cause of action, if this court has jurisdiction; and this court
has not jurisdiction over the parties plaintiff and defendant,
nor of the subject-matter." (3) General denial. (4) Contributory negligence. (5) Statute of limitations.
The cause coming on for trial, it appears from the bill of
exceptions that the defendant first presented the plea above
numbered one, which the court overruled and held insufficient.
The defendant then presented its plea or demurrer to the
jurisdiction on the ground that Saunders "resided in the Eastern District of Texas, and the defendant Brown resided in the
county and city of Dallas, Texas, which is by law placed in
the Northern District of Texas, and there was no fact alleged
to give this court jurisdiction," which was also overruled.
Exceptions were duly saved. The trial then proceeded, and,
among other things, the order of the Circuit Court for the
Eastern District of Louisiana of October 26, 1888, discharging
the receiver and directing the delivery of its property to the
railway company was put in evidence; and it was also proved
that plaintiff had resided in Dallas, Texas, since May 2, 1888.
At the close of the testimony, defendant moved to dismiss the
cause because plaintiff must intervene at New Orleans, and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

this being overruled, further because, on the pleadings, plaintiff and defendant both resided in the Northern District of
Texas, which was also denied.
The jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff for $7500,
which, at the suggestion of the court, plaintiff reduced by remittitur to $2500, and, for the recovery of the latter sum,
judgment was entered. The case was then brought on writ
,oferror to this court, and the record filed August 30, 1890.
-Mr. John F. Dillon and Mr.
tiff in error.

inslow S. Pierce for plain-

-Mr.James Turner for defendant in error.
AMR.

CHIEF

JusTIcE FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
We are of opinion that the writ of error must be dismissed
because the judgment does not exceed the sum of five thousand dollars, exclusive of costs, and the jurisdiction of the court
below was not involved within the meaing of the act of
February 25, 1889, 25 Stat. 693, c. 236, empowering this court
to review the judgments of Circuit Courts, when such is the
fact. The order of October 26, 1888, of the Circuit Court for
the Eastern District of Louisiana directed, among other things,
that "all claims against the receiver, as such, up to said 31st
day of October, 1888, be presented and prosecuted by intervention prior to February 1, 1889, and if not so presented by

that date, that the same be barred and shall not be a charge
on the property of said company." Assuming that the plea
based upon the order in question was the sole plea, filed in
due time, and technically sufficient in form, it is enough to
observe that it alleged that by the terms of that order the
property of the company was freed from all demands and
-claimsarising against the receiver and prior to October 31,1888,
which were not adjudicated by the United States Circuit Court
for the Eastern District of Louisiana in the cause of the .Xisaouri Pacific Railway Co. v. The Texas and Pacifi_Railway

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY v. SAUNDERS.

109

Opinion of the Court.

Co. upon intervention prior to February 1, 1889, and that the
plaintiff did not intervene in said cause prior to that day.
Without discussing the effect of that order, which has already
been sufficiently considered in Texas and Paoifio Railway Co.
v. Johnson, ante, 81, it will be perceived that on September
23, 1889, when this plea was filed, the time within which the
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana would take
cognizance of the plaintiff's claim had long before expired and
the claim was barred as set forth by the plea, certainly so far
as that court was concerned, and if the company, if liable at
all, was only liable on intervention in that court as the plea
asserted, then the plaintiff could not maintain .any action in
respect of his supposed cause of action. The plea was, therefore, not a plea to the jurisdiction, but a plea in bar. It did
not seek to oust the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court for the
Eastern District of Texas by reason of jurisdiction in the
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana or elsewhere,
and so give the plaintiff a better writ, but to defeat his recovery altogether. We do not think this presented any question of jurisdiction, as such, which we could consider.
As to the suggestion that the suit was brought in the wrong
district, that objection, if it tcould be raised by the company
at all, came after the defendant had pleaded in bar and too
late. St. Louis & San .FranciscoRailway v. 2fcBride, 141
U. S. 127; Texas & Pacijic Railway v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593.
Under these circumstances, as no question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was open to inquiry, we do not
regard this case as coming within the act of Congress referred
to.
Writ of error dismissed.

