MEDDAUGH v. WILSOX.
Syllabus.

of March 3, 1891. Whether the decree of February 2, 1891,
was a final decree; whether the objection that no cross-bill
had 14een filed came too late; whether the court could proceed
in a summary way on petition; whether appearance and objection on the merits waived alleged irregularities; and whether
these or like matters might bring a case within the first class
named in the fifth section of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
26 Stat. 826, 827, we find it unnecessary to consider, as no
question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was certified
to this court for decision, and therefore, for the reasons given
in .AXaynar'd v. H'echt, ante, 324, the appeal must be

_Dismisied.

MEDDAUGH v. WILSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

lo. 10.

Argued October 10, 1893.-Decided January 22, 1894.

It is a general principle of law that a trust estate must bear the expense of
its administration.
Assignees in bankruptcy, although not in possession of the bankrupt's
property, are nevertheless required to look out for the interests of all,
and are entitled to compensation, the lack of possession being important
only in determining the amount of the compensation.
A corporation in Michigan was the owner of a large and valuable real estate.
Three successive mortgages on this property were created, and a large
amount of corporation bonds secured by them were issued. Suits being
begun for the foreclosure of these mortgages, a receiver was appointed
by the court to take possession of and hold all the mortgaged property.
The corporation was then adjudged to be a bankrupt. Assignees were
appointed, who appeared by counsel in the foreclosure suits and contested them. The property remained with the receiver, and never passed
into the possession of the assignees. Negotiations took place, looking
towards a sale of the property and a reorganization, which contemplated
that a certain proportion of shares in the reorganization should be delivered to W. In the course of the negotiations, the amount which the
assignees were entitled to receive, and the amount which should be paid
to their counsel, were determined, with the assent of all parties. W.
agreed to pay this sum to D. for them out of the moneys to be received
by him. These negotiations fell through. New negotiations then took

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
place, looking towards a different scheme for reorganization. Under
these a decree of foreclosure was obtained, under which the property
was sold to M. and W. No provision was made in the decree for the
payment of the sums agreed to be due to the assignees and their counsel,
but the court was informed that satisfactory arrangements had been
made therefor. In the reorganization a large amount of stock was
allotted to W., but not so much, in proportion to the full amount, as had
been allotted to him by the previous arrangement. The claims of the
assignees in bankruptcy being transferred to their counsel, the latter
filed their bill in equity against W., to charge him as trustee with the
payment of the claims of both assignees and counsel, by virtue of his
holding the shares which had been allotted to him in the new company.
A large amount of proof was taken, much of which is referred to by the
court in its opinion, and, as the result of examination, it was held,
(1) That V. had assumed the payment of the claims of the.assignees in
bankruptcy and of their counsel, and that these claims were a lien
in equity upon the stock of the new corporation in his hands;
(2) That W., having received in the final arrangement a less amount of
stock than was awarded to him when the amount of the claims in
litigation was determined, those claims were subject to be scaled
down proportionately;
(3) And the majority of the court further held that, under the peculiar
circumstances of the case, the plaintiffs should not be allowed
interest.

THIS was a suit brought in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia by the appellants, seeking to charge the defendant
as trustee for them of 897 shares of the capital stock of the
Lake Superior Ship Canal, Railway and Iron Company. The
bill was filed June 6, 1881 ; the answer, September 13, 1881.
Proofs were taken, and on April 5, 1887, a decree was entered
dismissing the bill, which decree was affirmed by the general
term on March 3, 1888. From that decree of affirmance an
appeal was taken to this court.
The following are the undisputed facts in the case: The
Lake Superior Ship Canait, Railroad and Iron Company was a
corporation organized under the laws of the State of Michigan.
On July 1, 1865, it issued bonds to the amount of $500,000,
secured by a mortgage' upon its property and franchises.
Subsequently, and on July 1, 1868, it issued another series of
bonds amounting to $500,000, also secured by mortgage, all
of which two series of bonds were outstanding in the hands of
bonafide holders at the date of the decree hereafter mentioned.

MEEDDAUGH v. WILSON.
Statement of the Case.

On the 1st day of July, 1870, it issued a third series of
bonds, amounting to $1,250,000, also secured by mortgage;
$250,000 of which bonds were retired, and only $1,000,000
thereof were outstanding at the time of said decree. On
May 1, 1871, it executed to the Union Trust Company, as
trustee, a mortgage deed to secure a further issue of bonds to
the amount of $3,500,000, of which, however, only $1,300,000
were issued, and the remainder were in the custody of the
Union Trust Company at the time of said decree.
Suits were brought to foreclose these several mortgages.
While these suits were pending, and in August, 1872, the
company mortgagor was adjudged a bankrupt in the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan,
and George Jerome and Fernando C. Beaman were appointed
assignees, and the plaintiffs, Meddaugh & Driggs, their counsel.
These assignees never took possession of any property, for all
of it was in the hands of a receiver appointed by the Circuit
Court in the foreclosure suits. They, however, through their
counsel appeared in and contested the foreclosure suits. They
also filed a bill in the nature of a cross-bill. Litigation was
carried on for some years. On February 12, 1877, the several
suits having been consolidated, a single decree was entered
foreclosing all the mortgages. Pending the foreclosure proceedings, as appears from the terms of the decree, the receiver
had, under the authority of the court, issued receiver's certificates to the amount of $625,300.
The principal creditors and security holders were J. C. Ayer
& Co., J. Boorman Johnston & Co., Theodore M. Davis as
receiver of the Ocean INational Bank, and James C. Ayer and
George C. Richardson, jointly. Certain English capitalists
entered into negotiations for the purchase of the property.
Don M. Dickinson was acting for the corporation, and interesting himself to bring about a closing of the litigation and a sale
of the property to these English capitalists. On September 24,
1875, the four principal creditors above named entered into
a written agreement with Dickinson, in which the amounts
which each creditor was willing to accept were named; which
provided that the parties should consent to a decree of fore-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

closure, and an order for the sale of the mortgaged property
as an entirety; that the securities should all be deposited with
Messrs. S. G. and G. C. Ward, with instructions to deliver them
to Dickinson on his making payment of the aggregate amounts
due the creditors as provided, this payment to be in four equal
parts at intervals of sixty days each-the entire contract
being conditioned upon the ability to purchase the property
named, which included all the property covered by the mortgages and certain other lands and stocks, at a gross price not
exceeding $2,250,000. It is stated that there was on the same
day another agreement entered into between Dickinson and
the owners of the balance of the property .for its purchase,
but that agreement is not in evidence. Also on the same day
a contract was made between Dickinson and the defendant,
by which Wilson agreed to assist in perfecting the title to the
property and carrying through the prior agreements, and
which, contemplating that by the use of bonds and receiver's
certificates the entire purchase might be made at a sum less
than that named, $2,250,000, stipulated that whatever of
surplus there might be should be paid over to Wilson. The
negotiations for the purchase by the English syndicate were
continued from time to time, but for reasons not disclosed
the matter was never consummated. On February 27, 1877,
another agreement was prepared for execution by the creditors
aforesaid and Don M. Dickinson which, referring to the prior
agreements and also to the fact of a decree having been
entered, stipulated that the securities belonging to the creditors
should be placed under the control of Albon P. Man, of New
York, and the defendant, as trustees; that such trustees should
attend the foreclosure sale or sales, and, to the extent of the
means furnished them for that purpose, bid in the property;
that the title being vested in them, they should organize a new
corporation with a capital stock of $8,000,000, to which corporation they should eonvey the property they had purchased;
that the corporation should, besides issuing the $8,000,000 of
stock, also issue bonds to the amount of $4,000,000, properly
secured by deed of trust, which stock and bonds and deed of
trust should be deposited with Drexel, Morgan & Co., with

MEDDAUGH v. WILSON.
Statement of the Case.

directions to deliver all to Don -Y.Dickinson, or such person
or persons as he should designate, on his or their depositing
on or before the first day of June, 1877, to the credit of the
said trustees, the sum of $1,886,251.40, which moneys the
trustees were to dispose of, first, in paying the expenses of
the sale, purchase, reconveyance, and issue of certificates of
stock and bonds and the formation of the corporation; second,
in the payment of any moneys that should be furnished them
for the purpose of enabling them to perfect the title to said
property; third, in the payment of the sums due to the
creditors under the agreement of September 24, 1875, amounting to the sum of $1,296,103.41. The fourth stipulation in
reference to the disposition of the money was as follows:
"Any balance remaining in the hands of said trustees shall
be delivered to Nathaniel Wilson, and his.receipt therefor shall
be a full discharge to the said Albon P. Man, of all liability
therefor, and the said Nathaniel Wilson shall not be liable to
account to the parties hereto, or any of them, in respect to the
moneys so paid to him as aforesaid, and upon the payment of
said moneys to said Wilson the terms and conditions of the
trust hereby created shall be considered satisfied."
It was further provided that in case the sum named was
not paid on or before June 1, 1877, Drexel, Morgan & Co.
should redeliver to the trustees the stocks, bonds, and securities
deposited with them by the trustees, and that thereupon the
said trustees should transfer and deliver to Dickinson, or to
such person or persons as he should direct, in writing, one full
tenth part of the stock and bonds, and to the creditors, in such
manner as they might in writing appoint and direct, all the
residue and remainder of said stock and bonds. That agreement was signed by Man and Wilson, who accepted the trust
created by the instrument, and agreed to perform its duties,
and also by Dickinson, J. Boorman Johnston & Co., and
Theodore Al. Davis as receiver, but not by the Ayers. It was,
therefore, not a fully executed agreement. It is significant,
however, as expressive of the intent of the parties signing, and
as showing the relations of Wilson to the transaction. But
on April 9, 1877, two contracts were entered into, executed by
VOL. CLI-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

all the creditors above named, together with Albert G. Cook,
also a creditor, as well as by Dickinson, Man, and Wilson, the
first of which contained provisions for the disposition of the
moneys in case Dickinson should make the payment to Drexel,
Morgan & Co., similar to those found in the contract of February 27, the stipulation as to the payment to Wilson being
in these words:
"Fourth. The balance, if any, remaining after the payments
aforesaid shall be paid to and retained by said Nathaniel
Wilson, his personal representatives or assigns, discharged
from this trust, and shall be held, used, and disposed of by him
or them without accountability therefor to the parties aforesaid or any of them by reason of anything herein."
The other provided that if Dickinson should not make the
payment at the time specified, the trustees should take the
bonds and stock, cancel all the former, and issue to Dickinson
one-tenth of the shares, and then, after a sale of a portion,
should distribute the balance as follows: To the creditors,
respectively, in the proportion which the sums of money they
would have received, in case the English sale had been consummated, bear to $1,693,311.74, and to Wilson as follows:
"To the said Nathaniel Wilson, his personal representatives
or assigns, the same proportion of said shares remaining as
aforesaid which the sum of three hundred and ninety-five
thousand dollars is of one million six hundred and ninety-three
thousand three hundred and eleven dollars and seventy-four
cents (81,693,311.74)."
The agreement contained also this stipulation:
"And the said Wilson, in consideration of the interests
secured to him by the said indenture and this agreement, doth
hereby agree unto and with the said parties of the first part,
and each of them, that, in the event of the purchase of said
property by said trustees, (Man and Wilson,) or the survivor of
them, he will indemnify said parties of the first part, and
each of them, against, and will pay all the charges and expenses of said trustees (Man and Wilson) and their said associates, for and in and about the execution of their said trusts;
all lawful charges of the trustees under the mortgages in fore-

MEDDAUGH v. WILSON.
Statement of the Case.

closure whereof said property shall be sold; the taxable costs
in the suits and proceedings for foreclosure of said mortgages;
the charges of the master or masters in chancery, or other
officers, in or for the sale of said property; all claims or demands of Alfred Russell remaining unpaid for services and
expenses in said suits or proceedings, and for any portion or
interest in said property or any shares in the capital stock of
said proposed corporation."
The sale of the property was duly made on May 11, 1877.
It was bid in by Man and Wilson; the corporation provided
for was duly organized under the name and style of the Lake
Superior Ship Canal, Railway and Iron Company; the English
capitalists failed to make the purchase, and thereupon the stock
was distributed to the various parties as named in the last
agreement of April 9, 1871.
At the time the decree was prepared and submitted to the
court for approval and signature, the circuit judge inquired
whether provision had been made for the compensation of the
assignees and their counsel, and was told that satisfactory
arrangements had been made therefor. The arrangements
which had been made were these: Dickinson represented to
Meddaugh & Driggs the negotiations which were pending
with the English syndicate, and which he was sanguine would
be successful, and the fees of the assignees in bankruptcy
having been fixed at $13,000, the claim for which was subsequently transferred to plaintiffs, and of their pounsel at $25,000,
Dickinson agreed to pay those sums out of the moneys which
he should receive from the English syndicate, when and if the
sale was carried through. And this was the agreement which
was pronounced by the plaintiffs to be satisfactory. On February 13, the day after the signing of the decree, he wrote to
Meddaugh this letter:
" DETRorr, Momi., Febuary 13, 1877.
"E. W. Meddaugh, Esq., Detroit.
"DEAR Sm: I attended a session of the referee's court last
night and also this morning from 9 to 12 o'clock, so that I
have had no time before to write you on the ship-canal matter.

OCTOBER TERMA, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"I am so entirely confident that I can make an arrangement by which, if the English negotiation now in the hands
of Avery is carried out, that I can pay out of the $2,250,000
the fees of Meddaugh & Driggs and of the assignees that I am
willing to bind myself by the following statement:
"If the English negotiation is consummated, so that the
money shall be paid through it for the property and for the
discharge of the syndicate indebtedness, I will pay from it to
you $38,000.00 as and for fees of Meddaugh & Driggs and of
Jerome and Beaman, assignees.
"Yours very truly,
DoN M. Dio-insoN."
On March 7, Dickinson wrote to Davis this letter:
".3farck 7, 1877.

"Theo. M. Davis, Esq., 20 Nassau Street, INew York.
"DEA Sm: Please have the papers signed by Messrs. Man
and Wilson and forward to me at your earliest convenience.
It is of importance to all of us, as Messrs. Mvi. & D. having
learned of my return from iNew York, axe after me for their
voucher.
"I wish you would telegraph me on receipt of this when
you will send it, so that I can show them the telegram.
"Yours truly,
DoN lM. Dixc
soN,
Per A."
To which Davis*replied as follows:
"NEw YoRK, .arch 10, 1871.
"Don Mv.Dickinson, Esq., Detroit, Mvich.
"D'n Sm: Yours of the 7th inst. came duly to hand.
"I herewith enclose Wilson's agreement duly signed. The
other agreement has been signed by Messrs. J. Boorman
Johnston & Go. and myself, and will be signed by the Ayer
party as soon as a guardian is appointed, its provisions having
been approved by Judge Bonney.
"Said agreement has been delivered to Wim. Mv.Sebrey.
"Yours truly,
THEO. Mvi.
DAvIs."

MEDDAUGH v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

The only agreement signed by Wilson in which Meddaugh
& Driggs' names appear is the following:
"Referring to the extension agreement of the 'Dickinson
contract' this day signed, and under which Albon P. -Man and
myself are appointed trustees, it is provided therein that certain moneys shall be paid to me for which I shall not be held
accountable by any party to said agreement, and in case of the
success of what is known as the English negotiations referred
to in said agreement and of the consequent payment of the
money thereunder as contemplated thereby, in consideration
that said Don Ai. Dickinson has or does agree to pay to
Messrs. Meddaugh & Driggs, att'ys of Detroit, as and for cash
and expenses (by them and their clients incurred and expenses)
amounting to thirty-eight thousand dollars, I do agree to and
with said Dickinson to pay to him for said Meddaugh &
Driggs that sum out of said money so to be received by me
as aforesaid.
"Dated February 27T, 1877.

"NATHANIEL "WILSON."

AJr. Otto Eirehner and XrA. George F. Edmunds for appellants.
21r. H.H. lWells and Ab'. J P. Whitternore filed briefs for
same.
b'. TW. D. Davidge and -r. John E.Panons for appellee.
MR. JusTIcE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The argument in support of the conclusion reached below
is a simple one, and may be briefly stated thus: The only
promise made by the defendant looking to a payment to
Meddaugh & Driggs was conditioned on a sale to the English
syndicate; that failed, and, therefore, the promise failed.
The promise made by him in the second of the two agree-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ments of April 9, 1877,- that agreement under which the
matter was finally disposed of,-specified certain payments,
but among them was none to the plaintiffs. In other words,
he received the stock transferred to him burdened with certain express trusts; the plaintiffs were not named as beneficiaries therein, and, therefore, they can claim nothing by
virtue of any express promise. In the foreclosure suits their
services were antagonistic to the interests of the mortgage
creditors, the parties to the agreements with Wilson. Nothing
was charged against the property in their behalf in those suits.
The mortgagees were under no obligations to them, because
in that litigation they represented adverse interests. Thus,
neither by express decree nor upon any principle of equity
was the property, when purchased for the benefit of the mortgagees, burdened with a charge in their favor. Hence, not
only was Wilson under no express promise to or for them
upon which an action at law would lie, but also he received
the stock free from any express or implied burdens in their
favor. There was no trust attached to the property which
they could enforce.
While this reasoning is direct and clear, there are considerations many and persuasive which show that equity will
not be satisfied, nor will justice be done, unless and until the
plaintiffs are admitted to a share in the stock transferred
to the defendants. And first must be considered the situation
of the parties at the time the decree was entered. The mortgagor had been thrown into bankruptcy, and Beaman and
Jerome appointed as assignees. As such assignees they
represented not merely the mortgage creditors, but all the
creditors and all the stockholders in the company. It was
no single interest which was committed to their care, but it
was their duty as assignees to look after the interests of all
having claims upon the property. Acting in good faith, as
it must be supposed that they did, they conceived it their
duty to defend the foreclosure suits and to file a cross-bill
looking to the administration of the entire assets of the corporation. Their services in this respect not being to any
party or parties but in respect to the property itself, and to

M1EDDAUGH v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

-secure its proper application among all parties interested, it
is clearly in accordance with settled rules of equity jurisprudence, as well as with the practice in bankruptcy proceedings, that compensation for their services, including the pay
of their counsel, should be made a direct charge upon the
property, and a charge prior in right to the claims of creditors
or stockholders. "It is a general principle that a trust estate
must bear the expenses of its administration." Trustees v.
Greenough, 105 U. S. 527, 532. It is true that ordinarily
the assignees in bankruptcy have possession of the property,
and such possession adds to their cares as well as to their compensation. In this case they did not have possession, the
property being already in the custody of the court through
its receiver. But the lack of possession did not relieve them
from all duty, nor destroy their right to compensation. The
duty of looking out for the interests of all was as pronounced
as though they had the actual possession, and the lack of
possession was only to be considered in determining the
amount of compensation.
It was in this situation of things that a decree was entered
for the foreclosure and sale of the properties without any
express provision for their compensation. This decree was
entered in pursuance of negotiations which had been for some
time pending between the creditors and the representative
of the corporation and its stockholders, in which the amount
that the creditors would take in cash was agreed upon, and
out of the difference between that sum and the amount which
such representative was hoping to obtain from a proposed
purchaser were to be paid all the expenses of the litigation.
The representative was sanguine of the success of his proposed
sale. The plaintiffs were doubtless affected with his confidence, and so accepted -his promise to pay their compensation out of the moneys received from that purchaser, and
waived any incorporation of an express provision therefor
into the terms of the decree. But while, as it seems, they
were unduly sanguine, is it for a moment to be supposed that
they were intending to donate their services in case the
proposed sale should not be accomplished, or that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

creditors or defendant understood that they so intended?The question carries its own answer. The case is not such
as would arise if these plaintiffs had accepted an absolute
promise from Dickinson or defendant in lieu of a charge upon
the property provided in the decree. If, for instance, either
had promised them absolutely to pay the $38,000, it might
have been argued that they wholly waived any right to look
to the property; were willing that provision for a charge
thereon should be omitted from the decree, and were content
to take the responsibility of such promisor. But here the
promise was only a conditional one, that, if a proposed sale
was accomplished, out of its proceeds payment should be
made. Evidently, confidence in the accomplishment of the
proposed sale was so great that it was deemed unnecessary
to provide for the contingency of its failure. But the unexpected did happen. The sale failed. But their equitable
right to have their charges paid out of the proceeds of the
property did not cease. They would have been entitled at
any time before the final consummation of the foreclosure
proceedings to have had the decree modified, or an order
entered making their fees a charge upon the property.
These mortgage creditors and the defendant knew of the
existence of the claims of the plaintiffs, and the amount
thereof, and must as a matter of law be presumed to have
known that they were properly charges against the property,
and could, if need be, by express order be made a prior lien
thereon. In this situation the trustees named in the creditors'
agreement, one of whom was the defendant, become the purchasers of the property. They purchase it at the master's
sale, knowing that these charges of plaintiffs, rightfully
existing against the property, were only conditionally provided
for. If the condition happened, and the contemplated sale
to the English syndicate was made, theii defendant, out of
the moneys that would come into his hands, would pay their
charges. This he had expressly covenanted to do. If the
property was bought and the condition never happened, can
it be that he took the property free in equity from the burden
of such charges?

MEDDAUGH v. WILSON1.
Opinion of the Court.

Suppose that the case was relieved from the embarrassment
of conflicting testimony, and that the facts as claimed by the
defendant were free from dispute. The decree was entered
without any provision for the payment of fees of the assignees
or their counsel, such omission being upon the conditional
promise of Dickinson and the defendant. Suppose that thereafter, and before the sale under the decree, the creditors, the
defendant, and Dickinson, finding that the negotiations with
the English syndicate were going to fail, agreed and determined to say nothing to the plaintiffs about such failure, to
let the decree stand without any provision for their compensation, to purchase the property in the same way that purchase
had theretofore been contemplated, and then to divide it
among themselves with-out making any provision for the
plaintiffs, and that all this was carried into effect, the plaintiffs
being ignorant of the changed condition of affairs and the
altered purposes until after the stock had been distributed can it be said that under such circumstances equity would be
powerless to interfere, that if the plaintiffs were willing to
trust the matter of their compensation to the conditional
promise, the parties who made it and the parties interested in
the property could, upon the failure of that condition, ignore
their claims for compensation and secure a title to the property
discharged of all liability to them? If that be so, it would
seem that equity lies- under the imputation of sometimes
preferring the form to the substance of things. Suppose that
the second of the agreements of April 9 had never been signed,
and that the creditors (sharing in the confidence apparently
possessed by Dickinson and the plaintiffs in the successful
carrying through of the pending negotiations) had stipulated
for the purchase of this property by Man and Wilson, and the
disposition of it only through the means of the proposed sale
to the English syndicate, and that, thereafter, such proposed
sale had failed of accomplishment, can it be doubted that
Alan and Wilsolf would hold the title in trust for their benefit,
and for each of them according to his proportionate interest?
Could they say, we took this property with an express promise
to dispose of it in a certain way, and because that way has

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

failed we hold it discharged of all liability? Is the rule any
different when these plaintiffs who had a claim of equal equity
against the property, come into court, and say that the condition expressly provided for has failed? Have they not the
same right to be recognized and paid out of the property? It
is a cardinal rule of equity that it assumes that that is done
which ought to be done; that it looks rather at the substance
of rights than at the forms of proceedings. Unquestionably
when Man and Wilson, the trustees, purchased at the master's
sale -the time for the completion of the proposed sale to the
English syndicate not having then expired- they took the
property burdened with an implied obligation to the plaintiffs.
It was to be satisfied by the payment of money if the contemplated sale was carried through. This promise of Dickinson and the defendant to the plaintiffs was not a donation,
a mere gratuity, something done out of the abundant kindliness of their hearts, but it was in discharge of an obligation
equitably resting upon the property, and to relieve it from the
burden thereof.
This is not the case of a stranger making a purchase, who
might be justified in relying on what appeared upon the face
of the record, and upon a purchase take the property free
from all liabilities. For here the decree of the court, and the
sale in pursuance thereof, were but steps in the schemes
originated by the creditors with Dickinson and the defendant
for the purpose of securing to themselves an absolute title,
and one free from burdens.
But what was really the understanding and intent of the
parties, and especially of the defendant? This is his testimony:
"Mr. Dickinson said to me that it might be necessary in
order to effect a sale to pay some money to Medaaugh &
Driggs, the attorneys for the assignees in bankruptcy, and to
the assignees in bankruptcy, for their fees and expenses, which
had been considerable, so that he might have to provide for
them for the expenses and costs. 'Whether anything was said
about fees as fees I do not recollect. He said if the money
came into my hands, as it was anticipated it might, I could

MEDDATUGH v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

very well afford to pay him whatever he had to pay them. I
at first objected, and something was said concerning the
amount which he would have to pay, and concerning the
amount of their costs and expenses, and finally the sum of
$38,000 was mentioned as being the amount of the costs and
expenses of all the parties, the assignees, and the attorneys of
the assignees, which was as much as he expected in any event
to be called upon to pay, and immediately afterwards the same
representations and statements were made by Mr. Theodore
IM. Davis in the same room, and, I think, at the same time.
It was in New York; and then I said that I would agree, if
the English negotiations went through and the money secured
by the agreement was paid to me, that out of that money I
would pay to him whatever he had agreed or should agree, or
might have to pay to Meddaugh & Driggs and the assignees
in bankruptcy for expenses and costs to the extent of $38,000.
I do not recollect that anything was said about fees."
This shows that the defendant, at the commencement, understood that $38,000 was part of the costs and expenses of the
litigation then pending.
The description of the claim as costs and expenses and not
as fees is significant. It interprets the meaning of Wilson's
express stipulation in the second of the two contracts of April
9, 1877, for he stipulates to pay "the taxable costs in the suits
and proceedings for foreclosure of said mortgages ;" not the
taxed, but the taxable costs. Strictly speaking, that which is
allowed to trustees and counsel, as compensation for their
services, is not a part of the taxable costs, and, ordinarily,
those sums which they pay out for their personal expenses
and other costs of the trial are included with their compensation in a gross allowance. And yet the money which they
pay out for such costs and expenses may, if separately stated
and charged, be not inaptly called part of the taxable costs.
If this were the only matter throwing light upon the understanding of the parties, it might be said that this was a mere
refinement as to the meaning of words, but immediately following the stipulation referred to is this language: "Neither of
said parties of the first or second parts shall by reason of any-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

thing herein be personally liable for or on account of any
moneys procured, advanced, or used by said trustees in the
purchase of said property, nor for any expenses or charges in
or for the execution of the trust herein created."
The trust herein created, as shown by the previous language
of the agreement, and that made contemporaneously with it,
was the purchase by the trustees, Man and Wilson, of all the
property, the securing of a perfect title, the creation of a corporation, the conveyance to it of the property thus purchased,
and the distribution of the stock, or, as the duty was expressed
in the agreement " First. To the payment of the expenses and charges of said
sale and purchase of said property, the establishment of said
corporation, and the execution by said Man and Wilson and
their said associates of the trusts hereby created.
"Second. To the repayment of any moneys by said trustees
procured or advanced and used in the purchase of and payment
for said property to the extent authorized and limited by said
agreement of even date herewith."
"To the payment of the expenses and charges of said sale
and purchase of said property." This means, of course, all the
,expenses and charges. All the express liens had passed into
the foreclosure decree, and had been provided for in the agreement by specific appropriations of stock; and the scope of the
general language here used was obviously to cast upon Man
and Wilson, as trustees, the duty and the burden of removing
-every charge or incumbrance-which in law or in equity could,
as a consequence of the legal proceedings, rest upon the property. Such duty and burden passed, by the clear language
-of the agreement, from Man and Wilson to Wilson, as the
recipient of the residuum of the stock.
The parties of the first and second part were respectively
the creditors named, .and Dickinson. Upon them, by the provision above quoted, none of the expenses or charges of the execution of the trust were to fall. Necessarily it follows that
whatever had to be paid was to be paid by Wilson, and out of
the stock which was coming to him as his portion. Nor is this
strange. The sums which the creditors were to receive, whether

MEDDAUGH v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

in cash or in stock, by one or the other of the agreements, werefor securities of the old. corporation, whose form and amount
were specified, and which were to be surrendered by them to
the trustees, Man and Wilson. In other words, they agreed to
receive a certain specified sum for the securities which they
turned in, and the figuring as to the amount was, in most
cases, carried to the very cent. While the consideration for
the one-tenth transferred to Dickinson is not in terms expressed on the face of these contracts, it clearly appears from
the testimony that it was the services rendered by him in
bringing the litigation to a close, the equity of redemption belonging to the mortgagor corporation, and the satisfaction of
claims in behalf of some of the stockholders. As for Wilson,
there was no specific statement in detail as to items and
amounts of all the consideration for the money or stock to be
paid to him. Evidently the odds and ends of closing out this
transaction were to be thrown upon lim. Dickinson and the
creditors were to have so much stock absolutely; he was to
take the remainder, pay out of it or its proceeds all that had
to be paid, to perfect the title and remove all charges and incumbrances upon the property, and the balance was compensation for his services and risk. So the stipulation was that
Dickinson and the creditors should be liable for nothing, and
as the scheme involved the entire settlement of the affairs of
the corporation, it follows that Wilson was the party upon
whom the residuary burden was cast. It is not strange, therefore, that the witnesses, speaking from memory as to what
took place in the various negotiations, do not agree as to the
items composing this residuum. It is not to be wondered that
all the items were not named, or the amounts fixed, and,
hence, naturally arises some contradiction in the testimony as
to what was said and understood between the parties. The
parties all looked to the defendant as the one to relieve them
of all liability. He was, as may be said, the residuary legatee
of all the burdens and expenses.
With reference to the obligation assumed by him in case
the sale to the English syndicate was carried through, when,
asked what was to become of the balance that would remain

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

in his hands after paying the creditors; and whether it was intended as a gift or otherwise, he testifed:
"Out of that balance, whatever it was, I was to pay for
receiver's certificates, for bonds, for trustees' commissions. I
was to pay counsel fees to Alfred Russell, whatever they
might be, and I was to pay $38,000 under and in pursuance of the agreement I had made with Dickinson of February 27, 1877, in reference to his obligation to Meddaugh
& Driggs. Whatever was left was for my own compensation."
And further, with reference to the same matter, appear
these questions and answers"Q. In case there was a deficiency and the balance which
was expected to remain applicable to that purpose should not
be sufficient to pay and discharge the whole amount of all of
the several claims so provided for, by whom was the remainder to be paid?
"A. By myself. That was a responsibility and risk that I
assumed.
"Q. If there should turn out to be an unexpected remainder
of said balance after the discharge of all of said claims, what
were you to do with such balance; was it to be kept by you
for your own benefit, or to whom was it to go?
"A. It was to be my own, for my own benefit."
It is admitted that the written stipulation in the last contract did not express all that he agreed to do in consideration
of the stock transferred to him. Thus he testifies, referring
to that contract:
"A. I have stated what my liability was under that contract,
and there were things undoubtedly to be provided for not
specifically mentioned in that contract. For instance, no
mention is made of receiver's certificates, or of bonds, or of
stock. The trustees' commissions were provided for, I think;
and there was no mention of my compensation."
And again :
"A. There was no other written agreement to which I was
a party, but it was understood that I was to pay or take care
of certain bonds and receiver's certificates and the claims that

MEDDAUGH v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

I have enumerated. The charges of the trustees and compensation to them were provided for in the agreement."
And when asked between whom was that understanding
and when was it made, he answered:
"A. It was made before the agreement of April 9th, and
was between the members of the syndicate, Mr. Davis individually, and myself."
The written promise was, therefore, by his own admission
not the full measure of his obligations.
In 1880 there was a Congressional investigation, having
reference mainly to the transactions of Davis, as receiver of
the Ocean National Bank. On that investigation the defendant was a witness, and testified as follows:
"As against the stock still in my hands there are outstanding claims - at least one, and perhaps more - on the part of
persons who claim that they were employed by the syndicate
and that money is due to them, and that they are to look to
me for it. One claim is made by Meddaugh & Driggs, who
were counsel in the bankruptcy proceedings. They claim to
be entitled to $34,000 ($38,000) for their professional services,
and they have threatened to bring suit against me for it. I
do not think they are entitled to that under the agreement
that was made with them, but if there is any liability to them
under that agreement with them which I signed, I am the person on whom it rests. It was for the purpose of providing for
these contingencies that this amount was fixed in the way it
was."
And again, responding to this question:
"Q. Out of that $395,000 I understand that you were to
pay the expenses of litigation, and whatever money was due
Mr. Russell under his agreement with those people?"
He answered, "Yes, sir."
And still again, when asked for what he received the stock,
after naming some things, he said: "In addition to which was
the liability that I came under to pay all the charges that any
one had against this syndicate, as it has been called." Could
language be used to more clearly affirm that his agreement
was, as he understood it, to pay among others this claim of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs, which, as we have seen, was equitably a charge upon
the property, and of course, therefore, against the syndicate ?
Another matter: In the spring of 1878, Alfred Russell,
whose name appears in the stipulation signed by the defendant, not having received the payment which he expected, prepared to commence a suit against defendant. The latter was
advised of this fact, and on April 1, 1878, he wrote to him a
letter, containing this statement:
"1My obligation, as I understand it, is to pay to you whatever stock you are entitled to under any agreement that you
may have with the so-cJled syndicate. You and Mr. Davis
do not agree as to what that agreement was. I have no
knowledge of it except as I learn of it from others. One thing,
I believe, is admitted, and that is if the English negotiations
had gone through, of the $587,967 which was to come into my
hands, $50,000 was to be paid to you in cash. The English
negotiations did not go through, and no $587,967 came to me.
Instead of that, the conditions of the agreement of April 9,
1877, take its place. Instead of $587,967, I am to receive
$395,000, or so much of the capital stock as is the proportion
between that sum and $1,600,000-that is to say, I now have
$395,000 to pay to the same persons who were to have been
paid $587,967.
"Are you entitled to receive precisely the same sum or
amount of stock as if I had $587,967, or should you submit to
a_pro r ta reduction, just as I and every one interested in the
fund will submit to ? My own opinion is that you are fairly
entitled to the same proportion of the $395,000 that you were
to receive of the 587 MN,and should unhesitatingly say that
such was your just due: If you were to receive the sum which
I have already mentioned, I would not hesitate, on my own
responsibility and without the approval of any of the syndicate,
to make a declaration of trust in your favor to the effect that
you are entitled to the same proportion of the stock which I
received as you were to receive under the-original agreement
- that is to say, your share in the whole capital stock is
diminished in the rate that 587 M has to 395 M. This would
be easily expressed in figures."

MEDDAUGH v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Herein is an express declaration, made within a year of the
signing of the last agreement, that out of the stock received
under that agreement he was to pay the same persons who
were to receive payment out of the moneys which he would
have received under the first agreement, and an argument
therefrom that, as he was to receive under the latter agreement
less than under the former, the parties to receive payment
should proportionately scale down the amounts they should
be satisfied with.
In the bill filed by Russell was a copy of a memorandum,
which he alleged had been made by Davis, the receiver of the
Ocean lNational Bank, who was clearly, as shown by the
testimony, a leading spirit in the negotiations, as follows:
"100 bonds and 10 certificates ................
Int.acc't since Jan. 1, 1871, and certificates since
May 8, 1874, other interests equal cost of...
Int. on 50 bonds ain't to prin. cost ...........
20 certificates 12,136.16 call, total for both ....
Certificates par 10%, etc ....................
Bal. certificates and int., int. 10% ...........
Man trustee Hubbell .......................
Frost, Sutherland, Birdseye & McCarter, $5000
each ...................................
O ver ...............................
Forward ......................
R ussell ...................................
D avis ....................................
Meddaugh & Driggs .......................
Sundries, including said Wilson ..........

$30,699 09*
24,470 79.
12,344 63.70,000 O0
76,000 00
63,700 00
10,500 00
20,000 00
170,200
170,200
50,000
115,000
38,000
21,800

00
00
00
00
00
00

Total ............................ $395,000 00"
On August 2, 1878, the defendant wrote this letter:
"My Dear Mr. Russell:
"In the memorandum referred to in your bill a sum appears
which is to be paid to Meddaugh & Driggs, and which makes
up in part the 395 hi which was to have been paid to me. I
VOL. Ci-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

have rec'd and now enclose a copy obtained from Mr. Dickinson
of my agreement with Meddaugh & D., from which you will
see that I was to pay them only in the event of the success of
the English negotiations and the payment to me of the cash.
I send you this to show that the mem. could not have been
intended to definitely fix the disposition of the stock that was
to be issued to me. If that mem. is conclusive then M. & D.
have a right to a portion of the stock which I hold, and that
liability I can never admit, because I never assumed it. I am
willing to pay and to act upon the assertion of your right to
so much of the stock in my hands as I designated in a former
letter. Have you anything to offer or suggest as to a method
of settlement? Will you state (abate) anything of your first
demand? I am very anxious that you should have your stock
without any delay. Delay may be injurious to both.
Write to me at your convenience. Let us make an effort at
adjustment before it is too late."
Do not these letters tend to show that the claim now made
that plaintiffs were not to be compensated out of the stock
transferred under the last agreement to defendant was an
afterthought, springing from the fact that the defendant had
noticed, or had his attention called to, the omission of their
names in the stipulation in that agreement? How easily the
defendant would be led to such a conclusion! His obligation
was expressly to the creditor's syndicate (so called) and Dickinson. His promise was to save them harmless. Whatever
debt rested against the property, or could be made a personal
obligation of theirs, growing out of the transaction, he was
to discharge. The less he had to pay in this direction the
larger were his own profits. At first he recognized his
liability to the plaintiffs, spoke of it in the way that might
be expected as one of the things that he had to take care
of, but discovering himself, or having his attention called
to the omission of plaintiffs' names from the stipulation, he
proceeded to insist upon his non-liability for their claim.
Another matter throws light upon this. It appears that
the corporation as finally organized had stock of $4,000,000 -

MEDDAUGH v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

40,000 shares of $100 each. The number of shares transferred
to the defendant was 8387 shares. Of these he issued and
transferred in satisfaction of various claims which he recognized, including those to Russell, 4640 shares, leaving in his
hands 3747 shares, in respect to which he testifies: "The
remainder of the stock was owned by me, and I have issued
no other shares, except temporarily for use in borrowing
money in my own private transactions."
For what was this balance of stock given to Wilson? It
must be remembered that these creditors were not claiming
any general amounts; they figured to a cent the sums which
each except the Ocean National Bank was to receive. Each,
evidently, was anxious to secure for himself as much as
possible. Negotiations were carried on for months- even
into years. All the liabilities, conceded and doubtful, must
have been known to them. Davis, the receiver, testifies "we
knew how many bonds and receiver's certificates Mr. Wilson
had and represented." It is not to be supposed that they
would throw away anything, or make generous donations to
any one. While of course it was reasonable, and to be
expected, that they would leave for the defendant, who
assumed the general residuary liability, a margin above all
obligations actually known, in order to compensate him for
the risk as well as to pay him for his services, it is not to be
supposed that they were so ignorant of the situation, so misunderstood the real obligations growing out of their negotiations and foreclosure proceedings and all the litigation, as to
give to him stock amounting, according to the value then
placed upon it, to the sum of $175,000 and over. Evidently
they understood, and he understood, that that surplus stock
represented other obligations than those he has provided for.
And while he testifies to having purchased some receiver's
certificates and bonds with his own money, he shows no
investment in excess of a few thousand dollars. Indeed, the
significance of the testimony in this respect is chiefly in its
indefiniteness and omissions. As a witness in this case he
testified that Mr. Girard and himself at first bought 40,000
certificates for between $25,000 and $30,000, and that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893
Opinion of the Court.

money that the two expended and paid into the hands of the
receiver for bonds amounted to between $50,000 and $60,000
in cash. In the list of persons to whom stock was issued he
names Edwin Girard as receiving 1026 shares. An entry
made in his memorandum book at the time the receiver's
certificates were purchased shows that one-half of the cash
was paid by him and one-half by Girard, and his statement
of the manner in which the subsequent purchases were made
indicates that such purchases were on their equal account.
During the Congressional investigation, he was asked this
question: "Q. I want to get at how you came into possession
of 3694 shares of this valuable stock. What did you give
for it?" To this he replied, "I will give you the figures as
nearly as I can. I got possession of that stock by paying,
in the year 1874, $25,000, and between $35,000 and $37,000."
And then, after one or two intermediate questions -there
appearing to have been'some interruption -the question was
again asked, "For what did you receive this stock," and his
reply was, "I am telling you. When you interrupted me I
had gone so far as to say that it cost me $37,000, and the
costs of the suit were $2000 or $3000 more, in addition to
which was the liability that I came under to pay all the
charges that any one had against this syndicate, as it has been
called."
It may be noticed that the $25,000, which he here says he
paid in 1874, was, as shown by the memorandum referred to,
paid by Girard and himself in equal proportions.
Again, he testifies that in fixing the amount of $395,000,
$10,000 was estimated for his services and $20,000 for those of
the trustees, Man and Wilson, and it appears that Man received a certificate of stock of 203 shares as compensation for
his services.
He testifies that "the stock to Edwin Girard was for receiver's certificates and bonds which he and I had bought
together; $40,000 receiver's certificates, $75,000 of bonds, and
$10,00.0 of stock of the old corporation, my recollection is."
Putting this testimony together, it will be perceived that he
retained 3694 shares as his own property. Girard received

MEDDAUGH v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

1026 shares on account of their joint purchases, and it is to be
presumed that on like account he was entitled to the same
number. 1026 from 3694 leaves 2668 shares. If :Man received 203 shares, he, as co-trustee, would be entitled to the
same number, and for his subsequent services, according to his
own statement of the estimate, another equal sum, or 406
shares for those two items. Subtracting that, there still remain 2262 shares for which no satisfactory explanation is given.
It is true that when asked what was included within and
covered by the $395,000 in the last agreement, he testified as
follows:
"A. $90,000, receiver's certificates; $40,000, trustees' commissions; $160,000, stock and bonds; $50,000 to J. Boorman
Johnston and Company or Gordon Norrie on account of bonds;
$25,000 or $35,000, I do not remember which, to Alfred Russell; $10,000 to defray the expenses provided for in the agreement, and $10,000 for my compensation. That must have
made Russell $35,000 if these figures are right."
This shows $300,000 out of $395,000 for bonds, stocks, and
certificates, but the application of the stock transferred to him
shows no such proportionate disposition thereof for such purposes.
Another item of testimony is a memorandum said to have
been made during the negotiations prior to the signing of the
last contract, by one who was present, as follows:
"What Davis must pay out of amo. which he receives on
failure of English negotiations, viz., to Sept. 1, '75:
"Probable amo. required for Girard's bonds (75 @ 43
X & int.) ............ $60,000
c
"
"
" 79 certif., 2d issue, May
8, "74, & int., say.....
89,000
"
"
" A. P. Man's trustee bonds
(Hubbell), say .......
11,500
9C
c
"
"Ohs. L. Frost, trustee...
25,000
"'

"

"

"

other trustees, Birdseye,

Sutherland, & McC.'s,
5000 each ..........

15,000

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Probable amo. required for Russell claimed ....... $25,000
c
C4
c
" Man & Wilson, trustees. 15,000
9
"

9C
"

" costs of court .......... 10,000
expenses preparing bonds
4,000
wagon-road lands, 4700
acres; T. M. Davis'
profit .............. 140,500
$395,000"

The last item therein is significant, especially taken in connection with the testimony given by defendant to the effect
that of the $250,000 going to the Ocean N'ational Bank only
$150,000 represented stock and bonds, and $100,000 was for
compensation of the receiver, Davis.
We must not be misunderstood as imputing to the defendant a lack of truthfulness, or suggesting that his testimony
was false. On the contrary, his truthfulness doubtless com-.
pelled this very omission and indefiniteness. It does not seem
reasonable that a man of the business capacity shown in these
transactions by the defendant would have entered into any
obligation of this character without knowing exactly, or nearly
so, the items and amounts which he was to become charged
with, and that if in the settling up of the affairs any item
failed, wholly or in part, he would be able to disclose it exactly. And the fact that the testimony is so indefinite and
unsatisfactory in these respects is additional reason for believing that it was part of the understanding of the parties that
the plaintiffs were to be paid out of this stock transferred to
the defendant.
We have in our consideration of the case thus far endeavored to eliminate all matters of conflicting testimony, and to
determine what are the fair inferences from the undisputed
facts. There is, in addition to this, the direct testimony of
witnesses that this claim of plaintiffs was embraced in the
matters provided for by this last contract. Still, we do not
care to notice in detail that testimony, for it is contradicted by
witnesses apparently equally reliable, and upon that conflict-

MEDDAUGH v. WILSON.

359

Opinion of the Court.

ing testimony alone it could not be affirmed that the plaintiffs
had established their case.
In conclusion on this branch of the case, we think it may be
affirmed that the property was in equity chargeable with the
claim of plaintiffs; that the charge was not incorporated into
the decree by virtue of a reliance upon the conditional promise; that the defendant became one of the purchasers and
interested in this property with full knowledge of the consideration and the equitable obligation to the plaintiffs; that the
arrangement between the parties in interest and .himself resulted in fixing the amounts which they should receive absolutely and under no further liability for expenses or otherwise,
while he, for the considerations named, assumed all the liabilities, fixed as well as unsettled, growing out of the perfection
of the title to that property; that he* at one time recognized
this liability to plaintiffs as one of those assumed by him in
this arrangement with the creditors and others interested, and
that it still remains an undischarged obligation resting upon
him, and is in equity a lien upon the stock of the new corporation in his hands.
We have thus far considered only the question of the fact of
liability. Upon that is the stress of the case, and to it was
devoted most of the testimony, as well as of the argument.
Having reached the conclusion that the defendant is under
obligations to the plaintiffs, there remains the further question
as to the measure of such liability. On the one hand, it may be
said that the amount of the plaintiff's claim was by agreement
fixed at $38,000, and that that was the sum which the defendant promised to pay in case the English negotiations were
carried through. On the other hand, it is said that if those
English negotiations had been carried through he was to have
received $590,000 in cash, while under the arrangement as
finally consummated he received stock representing only
$395,000, and that, therefore, to that extent the claim of
plaintiffs should be scaled down.
We have heretofore referred to the fact that the evidence is
unsatisfactory as to what was intended to be included within
and provided for by these two respective amounts. There is

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

testimony to the effect that in arriving at the latter amount
those claims included in the former, which did not represent
cash, such as commissions to trustees, were to be reduced,
though apparently not by any uniform ratio. Russell, who
had a claim for $50,000 under the first arrangement, settled
at a much less figure paid in stock. It may fairly be said
that the plaintiffs have not proven that their claim was to be
exempted from a reduction corresponding to that made in
others of like character, and of course the burlen is on them
to make out their case. If it be said that the amount of
$38,000 was agreed upon in the first instance, a sufficient reply
is that that agreement was not made with the creditors, and
was only in view of the proposed sale to the English syndicate.
There is no testimony as to the real value of those services.
Equity would seem to say that the claim of plaintiffs should
be scaled down proportionately to the amount allotted to
Wilson under the two contracts, which, as we figure it, would
reduce the sum to $25,440. A majority of the court are of
the opinion that in view of the peculiar circumstances of the
case the plaintiffs should not be allowed interest.
The decree of the court below must, therefore, be reversed and
the case remanded, with instructions to enter a decree in
favor of the plaintiffs, awarding to them the sum o1
$25,440, and adjudging it a lien upon the stock of the
Lake Superior Ship Canal, Railway and .ron Company
remaining in the hands of defendant.

WERINER v. CHARLESTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 941. Submitted January 15,1894. -Decided

January 22, 1894.

This case is dismissed on the authority of Meagher v. )Jlinnesota Thresher
Mffg. Co., 145 U. S. 608, (and other cases named in the opinion,) in which
it was held that a judgment of the highest court of a State, overruling a
demurrer, and remanding the case to the trial court for further proceedings, is not a final judgment.

