OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

assistant engineer only, there should be deducted, from the
sum due him for such pay, the sum which has been mistakenly
and improperly paid to him. McElrat v. United States, 102
U. S. 426; United States v. Bur"chard,125 U. S. 176.
Judgment reversed, and case remandedfor fu'ther proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

MERCHANTS'

COTTON

PRESS

AND

STORAGE

COMPANY v. INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH
AMERICA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 807. Submitted January 8,1894.-Decided January 22, 1894.1

A railroad company agreed with a cotton compress company that the latter
should receive and compress all the cotton which the railroad might have
to transport in compressed condition, and that it should insure the same
for the benefit of the railroad company, or of the owners of the cotton,
for a certain compensation which the railroad company agreed to pay
weekly. It was further agreed that the compress company, on receiving
the cotton, was to give receipts therefor, and that the railroad company,
on receiving such a receipt, was to issue a bill of lading in exchange for
it. Cotton of the value of $700,000, thus deposited with the compress
company for compress and transportation, was destroyed by fire. That
company had taken out policies of insurance upon it, but to a less amount,
in all of which the compress company was named as the assured, but in
the body of each policy it was stated that it was issued for the benefit of
the railroad company or of the owners. The various owners of the
cotton further insured their respective interests in other insurance comI The opinion in this case is also entitled in No. 808, National Fire Insurance Company v. Insurance Company of North America; No. 809, Mutual
Fire Insurance Company v. Insurance Company of North America; No. 810,
Continental Insurance Company v. Insurance Company of North America;
No. 811, Fire Association of New York v. Insurance Company of North
America; No. 812, Liverpool and London and Globe Insurance Company
v. Insurance Company of North America; No. 813, Royal Insurance Company v. Insurance Company of North America. All these cases were
brought from the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee by writs of
error, and all were submitted at the same time with No. 807, and on the
same briefs.

MERCHANTS' COTTON PRESS CO. v. N. A. INS. CO.

369

Syllabus.
panies, called in the litigation the marine insurance companies. After
the fire the amounts of the several losses were paid to the assured by the
several marine companies. In an action in the courts of Tennessee to
settle the rights of the parties, the Supreme Court of that State held,
(89 Tennessee, 1; 90 Tennessee, 306,) that the companies so paying were
entitled to be subrogated to the rights of the owners or consignees
against the railroad company under its bills of lading, and that the railroad company was entitled to have the insurance which had been taken
out by the compress company collected for its benefit. The railroad
company not being party to those suits, the marine insurance companies
filed their bill in equity in a state court in Tennessee against the compress company, the several persons who had insured the destroyed
cotton for it, and the railroad company, to reach and subject the fire insurance taken out by the compress company for the benefit of the railroad company, and for other relief set forth in the bill. The plaintiffs
in the suit were, a corporation under the laws of Pennsylvania, a corporation under the laws of New York, and a corporation under the laws of
Rhode Island, on behalf of themselves and of all other companies standifg in like position. On the other side were two corporations under the
laws of Pennsylvania, two corporations under the laws of Great Britain,
a corporation under the laws of New York, certain residents of Rhode
Island, certain citizens of New York, certain citizens of Tennessee, two
aliens, and forty-four insurance companies of West Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, Illinois, Louisiana, Wisconsin, Alabama, Connecticut,
Ohio, Texas, Indiana, and Great Britain. The defendants petitioned
for the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States,
on the ground that the controversy was wholly between citizens of different States, or between citizens of one or more of the several States
and foreign citizens and subjects, and that the same could be fully determined as between them. The petition was denied and the cause proceeded to judgment in the state court. In the course of the trial it was
attempted to be proved that special rates, rebates or drawbacks had been
given in violation of the interstate commerce laws and regulations. A
decree being entered for the plaintiffs, giving relief substantially as
prayed for in the bill, the Supreme Court of the State, on appeal,
affirmed the judgment below, and held that the law making agreements
for rebates, etc., void, did not invalidate the contracts of affreightment.
A writ of error being sued out to this court, it is now Held,
(1) That whether the cause be looked at as a whole, or whether it be
considered under any adjustment or arrangement of the parties on
opposite sides of the matter in dispute, there was no right
of removal, on the part of the several plaintiffs in error, or either
of them:
(2) That there is nothing in the interstate commerce law which vitiates
bills of lading, or which, by reason of an allowance of rebates,
if actually made, would invalidate a contract of affreightment,
or exempt a railroad company from liability on its bills of lading.
VOL. cLi-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

THE case is stated at length in the opinion of the court.
For the purpose of understanding the brief of counsel, the
condensed statement in the head-note is sufficient. There was
also a motion to dismiss or affirm.
Mr. T. B. Tzrley,
r..
E.. Wright, Mr. C. W. Metca f
and _Mr. . P. Tfalker for plaintiffs in error.
I. The motion to affirm should not be entertained for the
reason that, though it is nominally coupled with a motion
to dismiss, such motion to dismiss is colorable only, and
manifestly made for the purpose of bringing on the motion
to affirm.
litney v. Cook, 99 U. S. 607.
The record shows that the question upon which the jurisdiction depends is not frivolous, and that the appeal was. not
taken for delay.
II. The record presented a case for removal to the Federal
court, under the act of Congress in that regard. It showed
a separable controversy between citizens of different States,
which could be determined without the presence of any of the
other parties to the record. lfnapp v. Railroad Co., 20 Wall.
117; Barney v. Latham, 103 U. S. 205; Hyde v. Ruble, 104:
U. S. 407; Harter v. Kernochan, 103 U. S. 562; Eanouse v.
.Martin, 15 How. 198; The Removal Cases, 100 U. S. 457;
Ayres v. Chicago, 101 U. S. 184; Shainwald v. lewis, 108
U. S. 158; Ayres v. Wiswall, 112 U. S. 187; Ayres v. Watson,
113 U. S. 594; Crump v. Thurber, 115 U. S. 56; Ins. Co. of
NYorth America v. Delaware -Hut. Ins. Co., 50 Fed. Rep.
243.
III. The record establishing that the contracts of affreightment between the C. V. & C. Line and Jones Bros. & Co.
were made in violation of the interstate commerce law, such violation making the whole contract illegal under the
terms of the statute, - no recovery should have been allowed
on the bills of lading issued by the C. V. & C. Line to Jones
Bros. & Co.; and the case of the complainant marine companies depending upon the establishment of the liability of
the carriers must therefore fail so far as concerns those bills

M1ERCHANTS' COTTON PRESS CO. v. N. A. INS. CO.

371

Opinion of the Court.

of lading. Pet rel Guano Co. v. Jarnette, 25 Fed. Rep. 675;
Dent v. -Ferguson,132 U. S. 50; Rannay v. Eve, 3 Cranch,
242; Gibbs v. Baltimore Gas Co., 130 U. S. 397; _Miller v.
Ammon, 145 U. S. 421; St. Louis &c. Railroad v. Terre
Haute &c. Railroad,145 U. S. 393.
Mr1 . John -l. Butler, Xr. Bolmes Cummins and -Mr.
William H. Carrollfor defendants in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

JACmSox delivered the opinion of the court.

The writ of error in each of these seven causes (which were
submitted together) presents the same Federal questions,
which are, first, whether the Supreme Court of Tennessee
erred in sustaining the action of the chancery court of Shelby
County of that State, denying the petition of several of the
plaintiffs in error to remove the cause to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Western District of Tennessee;
and, secondly, in holding that certain alleged special rates,
rebates, or drawbacks, allowed by Anthony J. Thomas and
Charles E. Tracy, receivers of the Cairo, Vincennes and
Chicago Railroad Company, through D. L. Fellows, their
agent at Memphis, to Jones Brothers & Company, of that
place, on cotton shipped over that line to various points in
the east, were not in violation of the interstate commerce acts
regulating commerce between States of the Union, and did
not render the bills of lading issued by the railroad for cotton
transported or tb be transported so illegal as to invalidate the
same and prevent any recovery thereon against the carrier.
The questions thus presented grew out of the following state
of facts: On November 17, 1887, about 14,000 bales of cotton
in the West Navy Yard Compress of the Merchants' Cotton
Press and Storage Company (hereafter called the compress
company) were destroyed by fire. The value of the cotton
was about the sum of $700,000. Of the total number of bales
thus destroyed, about 9608 bales were covered by bills of lading issued by various transportation companies to the owners
or consignees of the cotton. The bills of lading issued by the
Cairo, Vincennes and Chicago Railroad Company (hereafter

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

called the railroad company) covered 5087 bales of the cotton
destroyed, valued at $245,733.46.
In May, 1887, a contract had been entered into between the
railroad company and its receivers, Anthony J. Thomas and
Charles E. Tracy, on the one side, and the compress company
on the other, by the terms of which the railroad company and
its receivers agreed to give to the compress company all cotton to compress that the railroad company might have to
transport out of Memphis in a compressed condition. The
compress company, on its part, agreed to properly compress
all such cotton, and also to insure the same for the benefit of
the railroad company, or owners, for a certain compensation
to be paid weekly, which was intended to cover both the
service for compressing the cotton and the insurance to be
taken out thereon, in good and solvent companies by the
compress company. This insurance was to cover any loss
while the cotton was under the control of the compress company and until delivered to the railroad company. The contract further provided that the railroad company and its
receivers constituted the compress company its agent to receive
all cotton intended"for transportation over the railroad company's line, and to sign receipts therefor, on the production of
which, bills of lading would be issued by the railroad company. This contract was to continue in force until August 31,
1896.
Under and in pursuance of this contract cotton was delivered
to the compress company, by the owners or 'their agents, for
transportation over the line of the railroad company from
Memphis to points east to the extent of 5087 bales, for which
dray tickets or receipts were given by the compress company,
and on the production of which the agent of the railroad
company issued bills of lading to the several and respective
owners or consignees of such cotton.
The railroad company had an all-rail line from Memphis,
and also a partly water and partly rail line, the water line extending from Memphis to Cairo, Illinois, at which point the
railroad company's rail line commenced and extended by
means of its connection eastward.

MERCHANTS' COTTON PRESS CO. v. N. A. INS. CO.

373

Opinion of the Court.

The compress company had a similar arrangement for insuring cotton with other transportation lines, and in pursuance of
its undertaking with the carriers it took out insurance on the
cotton deposited with it for compression before being transported, aggregating the sum of $301,750, in forty-four different
fire insurance companies, corporations of various States of the
Union and of foreign kingdoms. The amount of this insurance
fell far short of the value of the cotton deposited with it for
compression and which was destroyed by the fire. In all of
these policies of insurance taken out under and in pursuance of
its contract with the carriers, the compress company was
named as the assured, but in the body of each of the policies
it was set forth and stated that the insurance on the cotton
was for the benefit of the railroads, transportation lines, or
owners. The insurance was to attach on receipt of the cotton
by the compress company, and to terminate when the same
was removed for transportation.
The various owners or consignees of the 5087 bales of cotton
covered by the bills of lading of the railroad company, with
one or two exceptions, insured their interests in their respective
lots of cotton in what is called in the litigation marine insurance
companies.
There was $8301,750 of insurance thus taken out by the compress company for the benefit of the carriers, and at the same
time there was a large amount of insurance taken out by the
owners or consignees in the marine insurance companies on
the bills of lading issued by the railroad company to the several
owners of the cotton.
Soon after the destruction of the cotton various suits were
commenced in the state courts by the owners of the cotton
destroyed, and the rights of the parties were to some extent
settled and adjusted in the cases of the Lancaster -Mill&
v.
Merchants' Cotton Press and Storage Co., 89 Tennessee, 62,
and Deming & Co. v. _Merchants' Cotton P'ess and Storage
Co., 90 Tennessee, 306, 358.
In this last case the Supreme Court of Tennessee held thatthe marine insurance companies -most, if not all of whom,
had paid the policies issued by them covering the losses of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

owners or the consignees of the cotton -were entitled to be
subrogated to the rights of such owners or consignees, as
against the railroad company under its various bills of lading,
if that company was liable on such bills of lading. The
Supreme Court further declared in that case that the compress
company held the insurance in the forty-four fire insurance
companies taken out by it for the benefit and indemnity of the
railroad company or companies which had issued bills of lading
on the cotton destroyed, and that to the extent of its proper
share or proportion of such fire insurance the railroad company
was entitled to have the same collected for its protection and
indemnity: but in respect to the liability of the railroad company upon its bills of lading to these marine insurance companies, the court could make no decree, or render any judgment,
for the reason that the railroad company was not a party to
that cause. It, however, declared the rights of the marine
insurance companies and the liability of the compress company,
and of the fire insurance companies, and left the former companies to their remedy by way of subrogation against the
railroad company upon its bills of lading to be settled and
determined by some new proceeding; and it was ordered that
$210,224.37 of 'the fire insurance fund be reserved for the
indemnity of the railroad company, if that line should be sued
and its liability to the marine insurance companies should be
established.
Accordingly, on August 7, 1891, after the decision of the
Supreme Court of the State had been rendered in Deming & Co.
v. Aferchants' Cotton Pressand Storage Company, 90 Tennessee,
306, the Insurance Company of North America of Philadelphia,
a corporation by the laws of the State of Pennsylvania; the
Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company, a corporation by the laws
of the State of New York; the Providence Washington Insurance Company, a corporation by the laws of the State of Rhode
Island, on behalf of themselves and all other marine insurance
companies standing in like position, who had paid their insurance to the owners of the cotton, filed their bill in the chancery
court of Shelby County, Tennessee, against the Delaware
Mutual Safety Insurance Company, a corporation by the laws

MERCHANTS' COTTON PRESS CO. v. N. A. INS. CO.

375

Opinion of the Court.

of the State of Pennsylvania; the Marine Insurance Company,
Limited, of London, resident of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Ireland; the Phenix Insurance Company, a corporation by the laws of the State of New York; R. H. Deming
and James H. Foster, partners as R. H. Deming & Co., residents of the State of Rhode Island; the British and Foreign
Marine Insurance Company, Limited, of Liverpool, England,
resident of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland;
the Cairo, Vincennes and Chicago Line, of Illinois; Anthony
J. Thomas and Charles E. Tracy, as receivers thereof, citizens
of New York; The M erchants' Cotton Press and Storage
Company, a corporation, of Tennessee; S. R. -Montgomery,
Napoleon Hill, and Thomas H. Allen, Jr., as trustees, citizens
of Tennessee, together with six other alien marine insurance
companies, and William Watson and E. R. Wood, aliens ; and
forty-four fire insurance companies of West Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, Illinois, Louisiana, Wisconsin, Alabama,
Connecticut, Ohio, Texas, Indiana, and of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Ireland.
The bill, in the nature of a creditor's bill, after reciting the
facts already presented, set out the various lots of cotton
which the complainants and the other marine insurance companies had insured for the owners or consignees thereof, and
which were covered by the bills of lading of the railroad company, which insurance they had paid to the owners upon the
destruction of the cotton, and further alleged the contract
between the compress company and the railroad company,
and that the former was to keep the cotton insured for the
benefit of the railroad company. The bill then proceeded to
charge that, having paid the owners the insurance on the cotton destroyed, the complainants were entitled to be subrogated
to the rights of such owners against the railroad company on
its bills of lading, and to have the rights of the railroad company enforced against the compress company, and the various
fire insurance policies which the latter company had taken out
on the cotton for the benefit of the railroad company.
The bill stated that the compress company held the fire insurance as trustee or agent for the railroad company; that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

railroad company, being liable to the owners of the cotton, to
whom it had issued bills of lading for the cotton while in the

possession of the compress company, and the marine insurance
companies having paid the owners for the loss thereof, were
entitled to be substituted to the position of the owners of the
cotton as against the railroad company, and as against the
compress company, and the fire insurance companies, which
had issued policies to the compress company for the benefit of
the railroad company.
It was further set out in the bill that after the loss occurred
the compress company wrongfully assumed to deal with the
fire insurance fund by applying a portion thereof, amounting
to $52,472.26, for the use of such owners of the cotton as had
dray tickets from the compress company, and to whom no bills
of lading had been issued, and who had no other insurance; and
that each defendant fire insurance company had paid on its
respective policies to the compress company about 15J per
cent of the amount of its insurance.
It was claimed in the bill that the compress company
wrongfully assumed to thus deal with the fire insurance fund,
and in disregard or violation of the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State, which had held that the fire insurance
collected should be held for the benefit of the transportation
lines which bad issued bills of lading for the cotton covered
therein.
The bill further alleged that the compress company was
neglecting its duty to collect the fund, and it and the fire
insurance companies were confederating to prevent and avoid
the payments by the fire .insurance companies of their policies
on the cotton represented by the railroad company's bills of
lading.
The bill sought to reach and subject, not only the fire insurance taken out by the compress company for the benefit of
the railroad company, but also a share or interest of the railroad company in and to certain real estate which the compress
company had conveyed after the fire to Napoleon Hill, S. R.
Montgomery, and T. H. Allen, Jr., to secure to the persons in
contractual relations with it the payment of the contingent

MERCHANTS' COTTON PRESS CO. v. 1. A. INS. CO.

377

Opinion of the Court.

liability of the compress company to any or all of them by
reason of the failure to fully insure the cotton for which the
carriers were liable.
It also claimed that of the $52,472.26 collected by the compress company and misappropriated to other losses, the sum of
$4394.12 of these collections should have gone to the railroad
company on account of cotton covered by its bills of lading.
The compress company was sought to be held liable for this
amount.
It was further claimed that several of the fire insurance
policies were lost by reason of the compress company not collecting the same, and that others were not taken out in good
and solvent companies, and for those lost the compress company was sought to be made liable in favor of the railroad
company.
Among various marine insurance companies which were
named as defendants as standing in like position with the
complainants, was the Phenix Insurance Company, a corporation by the laws of the State of New York, which had policies
outstanding in favor of the owners of 3609 bales of cotton, of
the value of $179,108. The Phenix Insurance Company, together with Deming & Company, on August 12, 1891, filed
their answer and cross-bill against the same defendants, setting
out that it had paid the loss on that cotton, and claimed the
same rights as were sought to be asserted in the bill of the
complainants.
On August 7, 1891, the railroad company and Anthony J.
Thomas and Charles E. Tracy, receivers thereof, together with
the Delaware Mutual Safety Insurance Company, filed their
answer and cross-bill in the case against the compress company and the fire insurance companies, which admitted the
liability of the railroad company to the Delaware Mutual
Safety Insurance Company to the extent of 500 bales, for
which it had issued bills of lading; but denied generally its
liability to the marine insurance companies on the bills of lading which it had issued.
The prayer of the original bill was that the questions arising
upon the matters and things connected with the loss of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

cotton, the insurance thereon, both fire and marine, together
with the bills of lading issued by the railroad company to the
owners of the cotton which was to be transported by it, and
the liabilities of the railroad company on its bills of lading,
and of the compress company, might be settled and adjusted,
and that the rights of all parties interested therein might be
determined in behalf of the complainants and such marine
insurance companies as might choose to come in and become
parties to the cause; that the railroad company might be declared liable to them, respectively, for the losses in each lot of
cotton covered by its bills of lading; that the compress company
should be declared as holding the fire insurance policies as
indemnity to the railroad company for the benefit of the complainants and other marine insurance companies standing in
like position, and that such insurance might be collected for
their benefit; "that attachment issue and be levied upon the
interest of the Cairo, Vincennes and Chicago Line in the trust
fund held by the Merchants' Cotton Press and Storage Company, and by garnishing the defendant fire insurance companies to answer and state what, if anything, they owe upon
their respective policies applicable to the liability of the Cairo,
Vincennes and Chicago Line, if liability shall be declared
herein, or by any court with the parties requisite to the
validity of the judgment before such court."
The bill further prayed for publication as to non-resident
defendants, "and that upon a final hearing of this cause this
court will decree that the C., V. & C. Line is liable to the
holders, and through the holders to the plaintiffs, for the value
of each of the lots of cotton covered by the plaintiffs' policies
and the bills of lading of the C., V. & C. Line, and will apply
the insurance effected by the Merchants' Cotton Press and
Storage Company uncollected, rendering proper decrees therefor against the Merchants' Cotton Press and Storage Company and the defendant fire insurance companies in exoneration of that liability, giving the proportionate share to the
plaintiffs severally, and to such of the defendants as stand in
relation to the cotton as the plaintiffs do; that the court will
enforce the trust in the Senatobia Street shed for the benefit

MERCHANTS' COTTON PRESS CO. v. N. A. INS. CO.

371

Opinion of the Court.

of the plaintiffs and others, to the end that the plaintiffs, and
others similarly situated as the plaintiffs, may be fully paid
the value of the aforesaid cotton covered under their respective
policies of insurance, and distribute the residue, if any there
be, to the holders of the certificates issued by the compress
company, some of which are held by defendants Napoleon
Hill and S. R. Montgomery, who are called upon to produce
a specimen of them; and that the said Hill is asked to furnish
a list of the holders of such certificates, that they may ba
parties thereto, they belonging to a numerous class, and their
names unknown to the plaintiffs. And the plaintiffs pray
for such other relief, general and special, as may be consistent with the facts of the case."
The theory of the bill was that the railroad company and
its receivers were liable to the holders of its bills of lading
for the value of the cotton burned, and which was covered
by them; that the marine insurance companies which had
insured the cotton and paid the losses thereon to the owners
or consignees thereof, were entitled to be subrogated to the
rights of such owners as against the carrier; that the railroad
company, through its agent, (the compress company,) was
entitled to recover against the fire insurance companies under
the policies they had issued to the compress company, as its
agent, and for its benefit, and that the complainants, and
those standing in like position, were entitled to reach the
fire insurance fund through the rights of the railroad company, for whose benefit such fire insurance was taken out
by the compress company.
On September 5, 1891, the defendants, the Royal Insurance
Company, the Continental Insurance Company, the Fire
Association, the Home Insurance Company of Louisiana, the
Liverpool, London and Globe Insurance Company, and the
National Fire Insurance Company, presented their petition
for removal of the cause from the chancery court of Shelby
County to the United States Circuit Court for the Western
District of Tennessee. That petition was defective and was
not acted upon. Thereafter, on November 21, 1891, the samedefendants filed their joint amended petition for the removal

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

of the cause, and, after setting out the nature and character
of the original and cross-bills, and the steps taken in the cause
up to date, and the relief sought by the original and cross-bills,
proceeded as follows:
" Petitioners state and show that the Merchants' Cotton
Press and Storage Company is a citizen of the State of Tennessee; that the C., V. & C. Line is a citizen of the State
of Illinois, and that the petitioners are citizens and subjects
of foreign States or of States other than the State of Tennessee or Illinois, the said Royal Insurance Company and the
said Liverpool, London and Globe Insurance Companies being
citizens and subjects of Great Britain, and the said Continental Insurance Company and said Fire Association being citizens
of iNew York, the said Home Insurance Company being a
citizen of Louisiana, and the said National Fire Insurance
Company being a citizen of the State of Connecticut, and that
the controversy is wholly between citizens of different States
or between citizens of one or more of the several States and
foreign citizens and subjects, and that the same can be fully
determined as between them.
"The Merchants' Cotton Press and Storage Company is the
assured in the policies issued by said fire insurance companies,
and the sole question, so far as concerns said fire insurance
companies, is whether said M erchants' Cotton Press and Storage
Company, a defendant upon the record, can recover against
said fire insurance companies on their respective policies as set
out in the bill of complaint in behalf of the plaintiffs and
others in like situation or in behalf of the C., V. & C. Line.
"Petitioners further state and show that the amount in the
controversy as between the said plaintiffs and each of the
petitioners exceeds the sum of two thousand dollars, exclusive
of the interest and cost."
The necessary bond was tendered with the petition. The
chancery court denied the application for removal, and the
cause then proceeded in that court to a final decree, which
granted substantially the relief sought for in the bill, and from
that decree certain of the defendants appealed to the Supreme
Court of the State of Tennessee. That court affirmed the

MERCHANTS' COTTON PRESS CO. v. N. A. INS. CO.

381

Opinion of the Court.

decree below upon the merits, and sustained the action of the
chancery court in -denying the application for removal, on
the ground that the real controversy in the cause was between
the marine insurance companies and the railroad company and
its receivers; that the object of the controversy was to charge
the railroad company with the loss sustained by shippers and
paid by the marine insurance companies, and incidentally to
collect from the fire insurance companies such decree as might
be obtained against the railroad company and its receivers, to
the extent that the railroad company was a beneficiary in the
fire policies taken out by the compress company.
The Supreme Court of the State further held that the fire
insurance companies occupied substantially the position of
garnishees, and that their indebtedness upon their respective
policies might be reached and held subject to such final decree
as complainants might obtain against the railroad company,
and that the fire insurance companies had no separable controversy in the sense of the judiciary acts which entitled them, or
either of them, to remove the cause from the state court to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
Tennessee.
The court further held that, if the complainants and the
other marine insurance companies standing in like situation
with them should fail to establish liability against the railroad
company, then no controversy would remain as to the other
defendants, as the marine insurance companies had no right of
action against any of the fire insurance companies, except as
incidental to their litigation with the carrier; that the fire
insurance companies were made parties only in aid of the relief
which was asked, and that no relief could be granted against
them unless the marine insurance companies obtained a judgment against the railroad company. So that the latter was an
indispensable party to the litigation, and the suit was in fact
a single cause of action against the carrier, with incidental
relief against the compress company and the fire insurance
companies, and was not removable by the latter companies
under the principles laid down in St. Louis 6 San .F'ancisco Railway v. Wilson, 114 U. S. 60; Crump V. Tlturber,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

115 U. S. 56, 61; Fidelity Ins. Co. v. Huntington, 117 U. S.
280, 282.
In this conclusion of the Supreme Court of the State of
Tennessee we fully concur. The case made by the bill and
the relief sought thereunder in behalf of complainants, and
those standing in like situation with them, clearly did not
present any separable controversy. The plaintiffs in error,
who were the petitioners for removal, put their right of
removal mainly upon the ground that the case made by the
original and cross-bills was virtually a suit by the compress
company against the fire insurance companies; that as the
compress company was a citizen of Tennessee, and each of said
petitioning fire companies was a citizen of another State, or
an alien, the latter had a right to remove the cause. This,
we think, is a clear misapprehension of the scope of the bill.
It admits of no question that the fire insurance policies taken
out by the compress company under its contract with the railroad company were, as expressed on the face of the policies,
for the benefit of the carrier, and were intended for its protection and indemnity. The compress company had, therefore,
no personal interest whatever in the fire insurance policies as
against the railroad company by virtue of the contract between
the railroad company and the compress company, and by the
terms of the fire insurance policies the railroad company was
the beneficiary under those policies to the extent necessary to
indemnify it against liability for losses incurred directly to
itself, or through its liability on its bills of lading. The railroad company had such an insurable interest in the cotton, and
was, to that extent, the owner of the insurance standing in the
name of the compress company, or held in trust for it. This
is settled by CaliforniaInsurance Co. v. Union Compress Co.,
133 U. S.387, 423.
The compress company, aside from the claims which were
sought to be asserted against it personally, as trustee of the
fire insurance fund, which was sought to be reached to the extent of the railroad company's interest therein, was a necessary
and indispensable party to the suit, under the authority of
Tayer v. Life Association, 112 U. S. 717, and Wilson v.

MERCHANTS' COTTON PRESS CO. v. N. A. INS. CO.

383

Opinion of the Court.

Oswego Township, ante, 56, decided at the present term of the
court.
It admits of no question that the primary liability, or the
right to reach the fire insurance fund, had also to be worked
out in favor of the complainants, and other marine insurance
companies, through the liability of the railroad company upon
its bills of lading. The suit could not have proceeded a step
without the presence of the railroad company, and certainly
it presents no separable controversy as between the compress
company and the several fire insurance companies.
It is further suggested, as to the right of removal, that each
of the marine insurance companies had a distinct and separate
cause of action against each of the fire insurance companies on
their respective policies. This is a misapprehension, for the
marine insurance companies had no right of action against
the fire insurance companies. Their cause of action was
against the railroad company under its bills of lading issued
to the owners of the cotton, who were the assured in the
maiine companies, and whose loss had been paid by those
companies. The right of those companies was directly against
the railroad company, by way of subrogation, and to enforce
its liability under its bills of lading. They could not have
proceeded directly against the fire companies without the
presence of the railroad company. The latter was an indispensable party to the relief sought, for it was only through
this alleged liability that the fire insurance fund could be
reached and subjected to the indemnity of the marine insurance companies. If each of these marine insurance companies
had filed a separate bill for the same relief sought by their
joint suit there could have still been no right of removal on
the part of the fire insurance companies on the ground of a
separable controversy, even if the fire insurance companies
were not garnishees, as held by the Supreme Court of Tennessee, for the reason that the railroad company and the compress
company would both have been indispensable parties, and
could not have been arranged on the same side with the complainants, inasmuch as the liability of the railroad company
to the marine insurance company was the primary question to

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

be determined.

Louisville & NZashville Railroad Co. v. Ide,

114 U. S. 52; Pirie v. Tvedt, 115 U. S. 41.
The complainants had a right to join in enforcing the common liability of the railroad company upon its bills of lading,
and, in the language of Chief Justice Marshall, in i"Vew Orleans
v. Winter, 1 Wheat. 91, "having elected to sue jointly, the
court is incapable of distinguishing their case, so far as respects
jurisdiction, from one in which they were compelled to unite."
This ruling has been approved in PeninsularIron Co. v. Stone,
121 U. S. 631, 633.
In the present case, as in PeninsularIron Co. v. Stone, the
rights of each of the, complainants and of other marine insurance companies occupying .the same position, depend, as
against the petitioners for removal, on the alleged right of
the marine companies to hold the railroad company liable, by
way of subrogation, upon its bills of lading, and, as an incident
to that liability, to collect the fire insurance fund to the extent
of the railroad company's share therein. "Although, as between themselves, they have separate and distinct interests,
they joined in a suit to enforce an obligation which is common to all; . . . and while all the complainants need not
have joined in enforcing it, they have done so, and this, under
the rule, in N7 ew Orleans v. Winter, 1 Wheat. 91, controls the
jurisdiction." The voluntary joinder of the parties has the
same effect for purposes of jurisdiction as if they had been
compelled to unite.
The right of removal must be determined by the pleadings
at the time the .petition is filed, Graves v. Corbin, 132 U. S.
571, 585, and testing the application made in the present case
by this rule, we find no dispute or controversy set forth in the
bill or in the petition for removal between the compress company and the fire insurance companies. On the contrary,
these defendants are charged with confederating together for
the purpose of relieving the fire insurance companies from liability on their policies.
The bill seeks to charge the railroad company, and then to
reach and subject its equitable rights and interests in the fire
insurance fund, taken out by the compress company for its

MIERCHANTS' COTTON PRESS CO. v. N. A. INS. CO.

385

Opinion of the Court.

benefit. There is not in the bill or in the cross-bills any suggestion or intimation that there is any controversy or dispute
between the railroad company and the compress company; or
between the compress company and the fire insurance companies. Under such circumstances there is manifestly no separable controversy made by the pleadings, such as entitles
the fire companies, or either of them, to remove the cause.
There is, in fact, no controversy "which can be fully determined as between them," and as stated by this court in Torrence v. Shedd, 144 U. S. 527, 530, "by the settled construction
of this section (referring to separable controversies) the whole
subject-matter of the suit must be capable of being finally determined as between them, (the parties seeking removal,) and
complete relief afforded as to the separate cause of action, without the presence of others originally made parties to the suit."
It may be, under the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1887, c. 373,
24 Stat. 552, and August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433, as
under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, that the
court may disregard the particular position of the parties as
complainants or defendants, assigned to them by the pleader,
for the purpose of determining the right of removal, Rarter v.
Rernochan, 103 U. S. 562, and the matter in dispute may be
ascertained by arranging the parties to the suit on opposite
sides of the dispute, and if by such an arrangement it appears
that those on one side are all citizens of different States from
those on the other, the suit may be removed. Removal Cases,
100 U. S.457; Ayers v. Ckicago, 101 U. S.184.
The plaintiffs in error in the present cases seek to sustain
the right of removal by the application of this rule; but it
will not avail them, for if the parties are arranged on opposite
sides of the primary and controlling matter in dispute, we
shall have the three complainants, together with the Phenix
Insurance Company, a corporation of the State of New York;
the Union Marine Insurance Company, Limited, of London,
England; the British and Foreign Insurance Company of
Liverpool, England, and the Standard Marine Insurance
Company, Limited, of England, on one side, and the railroad
company, the compress company, and the fire insurance com'VOL. CL-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

panies, together with the other defendants, as parties on the
other side.
Now, as thus arranged, we have two alien corporations on
the side of the complainants, and two alien fire insurance
companies (the Liverpool, London and Globe Insurance Company, and the Royal Insurance Company) on the side of the
defendants. Under such position, the alien petitioners would
not be entitled to removal; besides, it is settled by Zing v.
Cornell, 106 U. S. 395, that subdivision two of section 639 of
the Revised Statutes was repealed by the act of 1875, so that
an alien sued with a citizen had no right of removal, and this
subdivision two of that section was not restored by the act of
March 3, 1887; hence, an alien, in the position of the alien
petitioners, in the present case, would have no right to remove
the cause on the ground of a separable controversy.
Again, the parties being arranged, as above, according to
the matter in dispute, we have the Phenix Insurance Company
of New York in the position of plaintiff, with the Mutual Fire
Insurance Company of New York, (No. 809,) the Continental
Insurance Company, (No. 810,) and the Fire Association,
(No. 811,) corporations of the same State, applying for the
removal. It is too clear to require the citation of authorities
that in this position of the New York corporations, those
occupying the position of defendants had no right of removal.
It is further shown by the pleadings that the Phenix Insurance Company in its cross-bill made a defendant of the Newport News and Mississippi Valley Company, a corporation
organized under the laws of Connecticut, which was a carrier
from Memphis to points east, and had a contract with the
compress company like that of the Cairo, Vincennes and
Chicago Railroad Company, to insure cotton to be carried
over its line, under which arrangement it had issued bills of
lading to various parties insured by the Phenix Insurance
Company; and that company, after payment of the losses by
its cross-bill, sought the same relief against the Newport News
and Mississippi Valley Company which was sought against
the Cairo, Vincennes and Chicago Railroad Company. So
that to the cross-bill of the Phenix Company there were two

MERCHANTS' COTTON PRESS 00. v. N. A. INS. CO. 387
Opinion of the Court.

Connecticut defendants, viz., the National Fire Insurance
Company, (No. 808,) and the Newport News and Mississippi
Valley Company, and the relief sought made both of these
corporations necessary and indispensable parties. The Connecticut corporations could not in this situation of the parties,
if no other objection existed, be entitled to remove the cause.
In respect to the two other plaintiffs iDerror, the Merchants'
Cotton Press and Storage Company, (No. 807,) and the Mutual
Fire Insurance Company, (No. 809,) it appears that neither of
these parties made application to remove the cause from the
chancery court of Shelby County. So that neither of them is
in position to assign error as to the action of the court in
denying the other parties the right of removal. In Rand v.
Walker, 117 U. S.340, 345, it was held that the right to take
steps for the removal of a cause to the Circuit Court of the
United States, on the ground of a separable controversy, was
confined to the parties actually interested in such controversy.
In that case the court said on this subject: "That neither of
the parties to the controversy, if it be separable, a question
which we do not decide, have petitioned for removal, and the
right to remove a suit on the ground of a separable controversy
is, by the statute, confined to the parties actually interested in
such controversy."
It is, therefore, we think, clear that whether the cause be
looked at as a whole, or whether it be considered under any
adjustment or arrangement of the parties on opposite sides of
the matter in dispute, there was no, right of removal on the
part of the several plaintiffs in error, or either of them.
The remaining assignment of error based upon the alleged
allowance by the local agent of the railroad company of
special rates, rebates, or drawbacks to Jones Brothers & Company which, it is claimed, rendered the bills of lading issued
by the railroad company to the owners or consignees of the
cotton void, so that the marine insurance companies, who had
paid the losses, could have no right upon such bills of lading
against the railroad company, or the fire insurance companies,
needs but little consideration. The Supreme Court of the
State disposed of this question as follows: "This fact of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

special rate and rebate is denied, and it is. a matter of controversy and conflict of evidence, and it is also insisted in
answer to this by plaintiffs that the interstate commerce law
does not apply for the reason that the evidence disproves any
'common control' over the river and rail route. We are of
opinion, however, and rest our decision upon the ground that
if it were assumed that the law was applicable, and the fact of
agreement for rebate and special rate proven, it would not
prevent liability on the part of the carrier for the freight
received and covered by insurance in the hands of the carrier's
agent. The law makes such agreements as to rebate, etc.,
void, but does not make the contract of affreightment otherwise void, and we think there is nothing in the law or the
policy of it which requires a construction that would excuse a
carrier from all liability when it made such a contract in connection with that for receipt and transportation of freight.
Such a construction would encourage rather than discourage
such unlawful agreements for rebates. The carrier might
prefer them to liability for the freight. Such a contract as to
rebate would be void, and .. . could not be enforced; but we

think the shipper could nevertheless recover for loss of his
freight through the carrier's negligence and, incidentally, of
carrier's insurance. No different construction has yet been
put upon the interstate commerce law so far as we are advised,
and we decline to give it any other." We concur in the correctness of this conclusion of the State Supreme Court.
Jones Brothers & Company were either the agents of the
owners or consignees of the cotton, or the sellers thereof to
eastern consignees, and the rebates or drawbacks, which they
claimed to have been allowed, if allowed at all, according to
the testimony of one of the members of the firm, was a private
benefit which the firm secured, and, so far as appears, without
the knowledge or consent of the owners or consignees of the
cotton. Under such circumstances, if such rebates were paid
or allowed to the firm by the agent of the railroad company,
it is difficult to understand upon what principle such an allowance would vitiate or render void the bills of lading which the
railroad company issued to the owners of the cotton. It is

CALIFORNIA POWDER WORKS v. DAVIS.

389

Syllabus.

still more difficult to understand how the compress company,
or the fire insuranoe companies, could avail themselves of the
arrangement, even regarding it as illegal, between the agent
of the railroad company and Jones Brothers & Company.
They were not parties to it, and they were not affected by it
in any way, shape, or form.
There is nothing in the interstate commerce law which
vitiates bills of lading, or which, by reason of such allowance
to Jones Brothers & Company, if actually made, would invalidate the contract of affreightment or exempt the railroad
company from liability on its bills of lading.
The principles laid down in Interstate Oommerce Commis8'on v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 145 U. S. 263, fall far
short of establishing that the alleged allowance of rebate to
Jones Brothers & Company would render the railroad company's bills of lading invalid and defeat the right of the
marine insurance companies, who had paid the losses, to subrogation against the railroad company on bills of lading issued
*tothe owners or consignees of the cotton, who are not shown
to have known of, or consented to, the railroad company's
agent giving such rebates.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the Federal questions
presented by the assignments of error were not well taken and
are not sustained, and that the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of Tennessee in all of the cases mfust be

Affirmed.

CALIFORNIA POWDER WORKS v. DAVIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 301. Submitted January 8,1894. -Decided

January 22,1894.

Two parties claiming title to the same land in California, each under
a Mexican grant made prior to the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and
each under a patent from the United States, one of them filed a bill in
equity against the other in a District Court in San Francisco to quiet

