OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

It follows from these considerations that a cause of action
was stated as to the 1303 cases in which there was an arrest,
examination, and discharge of the defendant, and that the
Court of Claims erred in sustaining the demurrer to this
petition. Judgment will, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded, with instructions to overrule the demurrer, and for further proceedings in con*fornit/to law.

MILLER v. EAGLE MAINUFACTURING
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

COMPANY.

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 143. Argued December 11, 12,1893. -Decided

January 8,1894.

No patent can issue for an invention actually covered by a former patent,
especially to the same patentee, although the terms of the claims may
differ.
The second patent, in such case, although containing a claim broader and
more generical in its character than the specific claims contained in the
prior patent, is also void.
But where the second patent covers matter described in the prior patent,
essentially distinct and separable, and distinct from the invention covered
thereby, and claims made thereunder, its validity may be sustained.
A single invention may include both the machine and the manufacture it
creates, and in such case, if the inventions are separable, the inventor
may be entitled to a monopoly of each.
A second patent may be granted to an inventor for an improvement on the
invention protected by the first, but this can be done only when the new
invention is distinct from, and independent of, the former one.
It is only when an invention is broad and primary in its character, and the
mechanical functions performed by the machine are, as a whole, entirely
new, that courts are disposed to make the range of equivalents correspondingly broad.
The invention claimed and protected by the letters patent issued June 7, 1881,
to Edgar A. Wright, for new and useful improvements in wheeled cultivators, was anticipated by the claim in letters patent No. 222,767, granted
to him December 16, 1879, for improvements in wheeled cultivators.
The first claim in the said letters patent of June 7, 1881, was anticipated by
letters patent No. 190,816, issued May 15, 1877, to W. P. Brown for an
improved coupling for cultivators.

MILLER v. EAGLE MANUFACTURING CO.
Opinion of the Court.
The said letters patent of December 16, 1879, in view of the state of the
art at that time, are to be limited and restricted, if they have any validity,
to the specific spring therein described; and, as thus restricted, they are
not infringed by the sale of cultivators manufactured by P. P. Mast &
Co. in accordance with various letters patent owned by them.

IN equity for the infringement of letters patent.
is stated in the opinion.

The case

21r'. .H. A. Toulmin and .MP. John T. .Morgan for appellants.
Mr. L. L. Bond filed a brief for appellants.
.Mr. George H. (hristy, (with whom was 21r. Nathaniel
.F'ench on the brief,) for appellee.
MRfn. JuSTICE JA0KSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee, as assignee of letters patent No. 222,167, dated
December 16, 1879, and No. 242,497, dated June 7, 1881, issued
to Edgar A. Wright, for certain new and useful improvements
in wheeled cultivators, brought this suit against the appellants,
who were the defendants in the court below, for the alleged
infringement thereof.
The defences made in that court were that Wright was not
the first and original inventor of the improvements described
in the patents; that the same were shown and described in
previous devices and letters patent, set forth in the answer;
that the invention shown in each of the patents in suit is identical; that in each the supposed improvements relate to a
spring and its attachments; that the function and operation
of the parts are exactly the same in each; that one or both of
the letters patent in controversy were issued without authority
of law, and therefore void; that in view of the state of the
art at the date of the alleged improvements of Wright, the
letters patent granted to him did not exhibit any patentable
invention, and for that reason are invalid; that the defendants
were not engaged in the manufacture of cultivators, but have

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

sold cultivators manufactured by P. P. Mast & Co., of Springfield, Ohio, constructed under and in accordance with various
letters patent owned by that company; that they sold the
cultivators of this company without notice or reason to suppose
that they were an infringement of the patents of Wright, and
that they do not, in fact, infringe the same.
The class of cultivators to which the Wright patents in
question relate are of the ordinary character of wheeled,
straddled-row cultivators, having vertical- swinging beams, or
drag bars, to carry the shovels or plows, suspended from an
arch or frame, mounted on two wheels, a tongue fastened to
the frame and beams connected with the horizontal portions
of the arch, which serves as an axle for the wheels, and surrounding the axle on each side a pipe box, to which the beam
is secured, ihe pipe box revolving on the axle, and the beam
carrying the shovels adjusted so as to swing up or down with
°the pipe box, according to the direction in which it is turned.
The patented device consists of a round steel rod, or wire
spring, having at its fixed end a coil attached to the swinging
beam, or plow bars, and extending from the coil a slightly
curved arm, the outer end of which terminates in a bend or
shoulder, from which the rod continues to form a short arm
terminating in a sharp bend, or curl, at the free end of the
spring. This spring is so adjusted that the outer or free end
thereof bears Against the under side of an adjustable grooved
roller, fixed upon an outwardly extending arm upon the upright
portion of the axle. This spring, with its adjustment, is intended to have a duplex action, covering the double effect, of
either raising or depressing the beams carrying the shovels.
The curvature of the spring is such that as it moves along
the groove of the roller it presses against the latter at different points of its periphery, and thereby the direction of its
action is shifted or changed, as the position of the swinging
beam is changed. Such changes in the direction of its action
will assist in drawing or pulling the beam upwards in a verti-"
cal direction, giving it increased leverage as the spring is
moved forward in its bearings on the roller.
In his original application, filed May 23, 1879, Wright fully

MILLER v. EAGLE MANUFACTURING CO.

189

Opinion of the Court.

described his improved device for use in connection with cultivators and claimed for it, not only its lifting and depressing
action, but also its lifting power, which increased as the beams
were raised.
An interference with other pending applications being
anticipated as to the broad claims of the invention, the application was divided, on November 12, 1879, for the purpose of
obtaining one patent for the lifting and depressing effect of
the spring on the beams, and another for the lifting power
of the spring, increasing as the beams rise, the latter being
sought upon the original application, while the former was
based upon the divisional application of November 12, 1879.
Patent No. 222,767, for the double effect or duplex action of
the improved spring, was granted on December 16, 1879, and
thereafter on June 7, 1881, patent N6. 242,497, for the single
effect of increased lifting force in raising the plow beams, was
granted, after interference had been disposed of.
The court below gustained the validity of both patents, and
held that the defendants infringed the first, second, third,
fourth, and sixth claims of patent No. 222,767, and the first,
second, third, and fourth claims of the patent granted June 7,
1881, (No. 242,497). The complainant waiving an accounting
for profits and damages, a final decree was entered, enjoining
the defendants from making, using, or selling to others to be
used, cultivators constructed and operated in the manner and
upon the principle described in the letters patent in controversy.
From this decree the present appeal is prosecuted.
The appellants assign numerous errors, which need not be
separately noticed and considered, as they are embraced in the
general proposition that the court erred in holding that the
patents sued on were valid, and that the cultivators sold by
the defendants infringed the same.
In the specification, forming part of the letters patent
222,767, issued December 16, 1879, under the divided application filed November 12, 1879, the patentee states:
"The object of my invention is to give the operator mechanical assistance in raising and lowering the plows without interfering with their usual action and movement, to prevent the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

plows from rising out of the ground accidentally, and to limit
their descent; and to this end the invention consists in a spring
which serves the double purpose of lifting or holding down the
plows at will, as may be required; in so constructing and
applying a spring that it exerts a lifting action on the plow
only when the latter is raised above its usual operative position; in so constructing and applying a spring that it limits
the descent of the plow; also, in details of minor importance,
hereinafter described.
"In carrying out my invention the one spring may be
adapted to serve all or either one or more of the offices above
enumerated, and may be modified in its form, construction, and
arrangement, as desired, provided its mode of action is retained."
It further stated that the improved sjrings may be attached
to either the plows, as slhown in figures 1 and 2, or to the axle,
as shown in figure 3, on the opposite page.
The improvements are described in the specification as follows:
"As shown in Figs. 2 and 3, each spring consists of a round
steel rod or wire having at the fixed end a coil, a, and extending from the coil a long slightly-curved arm, b,the outer end
of which terminates in a sharp bend or shoulder, o, from which
the rod continues to form a short arm, d, the end of which
has a sharp bend or curl, e, as represented in Figs. 2 and 3.
"When the spring is to be applied to the plow beam, as
shown in Figs. 1 and 2, I first provide the upright portion of
the axle with an outwardly-extending arm or rod, E, carrying
a laterally-adjustable grooved roller, F, to serve as a bearing
for the free end of the spring. The coiled end of the spring
is then seated in a metal bearing-plate, G, which is secured
rigidly but adjustably to the beam by means of a bolt, H, as
shown, the free end of the spring being at the same time
seated against the under side of the roller, and the parts so
adjusted that when the beam is in its lowermost position the
extreme end e of the spring will bear against the front of the
roller, and the spring be under a strong tension.
"When the beam and its shovels are down in an operative
position, so that the shovels enter the ground, the portion d

MILLER v. EAGLE MANUFACTURIING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

pl.

2.

191

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

of the spring bears beneath the roller, as shown in Fig. 1, and
serves to hold the beam down, so as to keep the shovels in the
ground, but at the same time allows them a limited vertical
movement when required.
"Whenever the shovels enter to the full depth desired, the
end e of the spring encounters the roller, and serves to check
the descent and to suspend the beams.
"When the beam is raised, the spring continues to urge or
hold them down until the bend or angle e of the spring passes
the roller, whereupon the spring instantly changes its action,
and tends to lift the beam."
The specification then proceeds to state:
"I am aware that cultivator plows have heretofore suspended when in action by springs which exerted little or no
lifting force when the shovels were lifted above the ground,
and which exerted an increasing lifting force as the shovels
descended.
"I am also aware that springs actuated by manual devices,
and not automatic, have been employed to force cultivator
shovels into the ground.
"I am not aware, however, that any one has hitherto
applied a spring in such a manner that it served both to elevate and hold down the beam or shovels, nor that any one has
suspended the beams by a spring which would lift the whole
or the greatest part of the weight to the highest point required,
and still permit an easy motion of the shovels in the ground
with little or no tendency to rise therefrom; neither am I
aware that any one has ever caused a lifting or depressing
spring, which permitted a movement of the beam and shovels,
to limit their descent.
"I therefore claim to be the inventor of each and all of said
features, broadly considered; and it is obvious that they may
be changed, modified, or altered in the form of embodiment as
desired, it being obvious to the skilled mechanic that there
are many equivalent ways of securing the same end without
departing from the limits of my invention.
"I do not claim in the present patent the broad idea of a
lifting spring which acts with increasing force as the beam

MILLER v. EAGLE MANUFACTURING CO.

19a

Opinion of the Court.

rises, as I have made the same the subject of a separate application bearing date prior hereto; but,
"Having described my invention, what I do claim is "1. In combination with a vertically-swinging beam or
drag-bar, a spring, substantially as described and shown,
arranged to urge the beam downward when in action and
urge it upward when it is lifted above the operative position.
"2. In combination with a vertically-swinging beam or
drag-bar, a double-acting automatic spring, substantially as
described, serving the double purpose of holding the beam
down to its work and of assisting to lift it when it is thrown
out of action.
"3. In combination with a vertically-swinging beam or
drag-bar, a spring, substantially as shown, adapted to exert an
automatic spring action upward or downward upon the beam,
according to the position of the latter.
"14. In a cultivator, the combination of a frame, a verticallyswinging beam or drag-bar attached thereto, and an automatic
spring, substantially as described, connected with one of said
members, and arranged to urge the beam downward while the
latter is in an' operative position, but not when it is raised
above said position. .
"6. In a cultivator, the combination of a main frame, a
vertically-moving beam or drag-bar connected therewith, and
a spring, substantially as described, interposed between said
parts and acting vertically upon the beam, said spring being
constructed and arranged to pass a centre or dead point as the
beam moves vertically, and in passing said point cease or
change the direction of its action on the beam."
The second patent, No. 212,497, issued June 7, 1881, while
describing in both the specification and the drawings the same
invention or device covered by the patent of December 16,
1879, attempts to limit the invention and patent to the lifting operation of the springs, increasing as the beams are
raised. The specification, forming a part of this patent, states
that "The invention relates to that class of machines, generally
wheeled, which have vertically-swinging beams or drag-bars?
VOL. CLI-13

OCTOBER TERM:, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

to carry the shovels or plow points; and the object of the
invention is to render the operations of the machine easier and
less laborious to the attendants by applying springs thereto in
such manner that they will assist the operator in raising the
beams and shovels attached thereto from their operative to
their inoperative positions, and this without having the springs
exert any objectionable lifting strain upon the beams when
the latter are in action.
"To this end the invention consists in applying lifting
springs in such manner that they exert upon the beams a
maximum power or strain when the latter are above an
operative position.
"The spring, operating in accordance with my improved
plan, may be made and applied in various forms, which will
readily suggest themselves to the skilled mechanic without
departing from the limits of my invention.
"My springs may be arranged to sustain the whole or any
desired portion of the weight of the beams when the latter are
raised, and they may be arranged to exert a slight lifting
strain when the beams are in action, or, if preferred, arranged
to cease their lifting strain entirely at such time.
"The essential feature of my invention consists in applying
a lifting spring or springs in such manner that they do not
increase their lifting strain as the beam is depressed, the construction preferred being such that the springs exert an
increased lifting action as the beams rise from an operative to
an inoperative position.
"I am aware that springs have been applied in various
ways to assist in lifting the beams in this class of machines;
but in all cases their arrangement was such that they acted
with an increased lifting strain as the beams were lowered,
the consequence of which arrangement was, that the springs
exerted their greatest upward strain when the shovels were in
the ground, at the time when it was desirable that the shovel
should not be lifted, and on the other hand, exerted but little
force when the beams were elevated, and when it was required
that they should be sustained to relieve the operator. This
old action, it will be seen, is the reverse of that which is

MILLER v. EAGLE -A NUFACTURING CO.

195

Opinion of the Court.

desired, and the principal object of my invention is to reverse
the old mode of action and have the springs act with little or
no upward strain when the shovels are in the ground, but
with a strong upward pressure when the beams are lifted.
"The accompanying drawings illustrate one manner of
embodying my invention. The springs represented in the
drawings are adapted to serve the double purpose of holding
the beams down, and of lifting them, or assisting to lift them,
when they are raised above an operative position. No claim
is made in the present case to this duplex action of the springs,
nor to the peculiar form or arrangement of the springs, otherwise than as regards the feature of exerting an increasing or
a maximum strain on the beams as the latter rise, the peculiar
construction of the spring being already covered in a patent
hitherto granted to me."
After describing the drawings and the operation of the
spring, the specification proceeds as follows:
"While it is believed that the form of spring represented in
the drawings is preferable to all others, the invention includes,
as before stated, any spring so combined with the beam
or its equivalent that a greater or stronger lifting force or
effect is exerted upon the beam when the latter is above the
operative position than when it is in use; or, in other words,
the invention includes any and all beam-lifting springs the
effect of which is lessened or avoided when the beam descends
to an operative position.
"I believe myself to be the first to apply a spring in such
manner as to secure the above mode of action, and the first to
so apply a spring in such manner that as it loses tension it acts
with an increasing force or effect to lift the beam, or, in other
words, with an effect which is not lessened by the decrease in
the tension of the spring within the usual limits of operation.
"Among other arrangements which may be substituted for
that shown is that of having a radius bar or link introduced
between the spring and beam as a substitute for the curved
spring and roller."
Having thus described his invention, the patentee claimed -

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

"1. In a cultivator, the combination of a vertically swinging drag-bar or beam and a lifting spring which acts with
increasing force or effect on the beam as the latter rises, and

'vice 'versa.
"2. In a wheeled cultivator, the combination of a vertically
moving beam and a lifting spring, substantially as described,
whereby an increasing upward strain is communicated to the
beam as the latter rises.
"3. The combination of a wheeled frame, a vertically moving beam or drag-bar attached thereto, and a lifting spring,
substantially as described, which exerts a greater strain or
effect upon the beam when the latter is elevated than when it
is depressed.
"4. The combination of a vertically moving beam, a lifting
spring, and a shifting or changing bearing or fulcrum, whereby
the lifting action or effect of the spring upon the beam is increased as the beam is elevated, substantially as described and
shown."
It is not deemed necessary to make a separate analysis of
the respective claims alleged to be infringed.
The novelty of Wright's invention consists, as held by the
court below, in the application of a double acting spring to
assist the operator in either lifting the plow beams, or the
plows attached thereto, or in sinking them deeper in the earth,
as occasion might require, while the cultivator is in service.
The first patent, issued in 1879, covered both the lifting and
depressing actions or operations, while the second patent
covered only the lifting effect. The spring device which was
designed to accomplish these effects, or operations, is the same
in both patents. The drawings in each of the patents are
identical, and the specification in each is substantially the
same. Under these circumstances can it be held that the
second patent has any validity, or must it be treated as having
been anticipated bythe grant of the 1879 patent? If, upon a
proper construction of the two patents - which presents a
question of law to be determined by the court, (Heald v. .Rice,
104 U. S. 737, 749,) and which does not seem to have been
passed upon and decided by the court below - they should be

MILLER v. EAGLE MANUFACTURING CO.

197

Opinion of the Court.

considered as covering the same invention, then the later
must be declared void, under the well-settled rule that two
valid patents for the same invention cannot be granted either
to the same or to a different party.
Thus in Sufolk- Company v. Hayde, 3 Wall. 315, it was
held that where two patents, showing the same invention or
device, were issued to the same party, the later one was void,
although the application for it was first fied, thereby deciding
that it is the issue date and not the filing date which determines priority to patents issued to the same inventor on the
same machine.
In James v. Carmpbell, 101 U. S. 356, 370, 382, the court
say : "It is hardly necessary to remark that the patentee could
not include in a subsequent patent any invention embraced or
desceied in a prior one, granted to himself, any more than he
could an invention embraced or described in a prior patent
granted to a third person. Indeed, not so well; because he
TnAit get a patent for an invention before patented to a third
person in this country, if he could show that he was the first
and original inventor, and if he should have an interference
declared. . . . If he was the author of any other invention than that which the specification describes, and claims,
though he might have asked to have it patented at the same
time, and in the same patent, yet, if he has not done so, and
afterwards desires to secure it, he is bound to make a new and
distinct application for that purpose, and make it the subject
of a new and different patent." When a patentee anticipates
himself, he cannot, in the nature of things, give validity to the
second patent.
In .fosler Safe Co. v. .osler, 127 'U. S. 354, it was held that
a patent having issued for a product, as made by a certain
process, a later patent could not be granted for the process
which results in the product.
In .McCreary v. Pennsylvania Canal Co., 141 U. S. 459,
467, it was held that where a party owned two patents, showing substantially the same improvement, the second was void,
the court saying: "It is true that the combination of the earlier
patent in this case is substantially contained in the later. If

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

it be identical with it, or only a colorable variation from it,
the second patent would be void, as a patentee cannot take
two patents for the same invention."
In Underwood v. Gerber, 149 U. S. 224, it was ruled that
where a patentee obtained two patents on the same day, upon
applications filed on the same day, they could not be treated
as one patent with two claims, and that the complainant in
suing upon the second, or the one having the latest number,
could not use the first, or the one with the earlier number, to
help sustain the action.
In Odiorne v. Amessbury Nail Factory, 2 Mason, 28, the
reason for the rule since established by the above cited cases
was stated to be that the power to create a monopoly is exhausted by the first patent; and for the further reason that a,
new and later patent for the same invention would operate to
extend or prolong the monopoly beyond the period allowed by
law.
The result of the foregoing and other authorities is that no
patent can issue for an invention actually covered by a former
patent, especially to the same patentee, although the terms of
the claims may differ; that the second patent, although containing a broader claim, more generical in its character than
the specific claims contained in the prior patent, is also void;
but that where the second patent covers matter described in
the prior patent, essentially distinct and separable from the
invention covered thereby and claims made thereunder, its
validity may be sustained.
In the last class of cases it must distinctly appear that the
invention covered by the later patent was a separate invention,
distinctly different and independent from that covered by the
first patent; in other words, it must be something substantially
different from that comprehended in the first patent. It must
consist in something more than a mere distinction of the
breadth or scope of the claims of each patent. If the case
comes within the first or second of the above classes, the
second patent is absolutely void.
It is insisted on the part of the appellee that "whether this
invention shall be protected in part of its features by one

MILLER v. EAGLE MANUFACTURING CO.

199

Opinion of: the Court.

patent, and as to the rest by another, or shall be completely
protected by a single patent, is a matter which concerns solely
the Patent Office and the inventor."
Under the rule announced in the foregoing authorities this proposition cannot be
sustained.
The second and principal contention of the appellee isthat
the patent of 1881 covers a distinct and separate invention
from the first, and in support of that proposition the appellee
relies upon the rule announced in Garrattv. Seibert, 98 U. S.
75, 77; Sewall v. Jones, 91 U. S. 171, 190, and .2errill v.
Yeomans, 94 U. S. 568. These cases do not, however, establish
the appellee's position.
In Ga'rattv. Seibert the arrangement for the operation of
the device in the second patent was entirely different from
the original patent. In Sewall v. Jones it was held that there
might -be a patent for the process and one for the product.
In Merrill v. Yeomans it was held that where a patent described an apparatus, a process, and a product, and the claims
covered only the apparatus and the process, the law provided
a remedy by a surrender of the patent and a reissue, for the
purpose of embracing the product.
A single invention may include both the machine and the
manufacture it creates, and in such cases, if the inventions are
really separable, the inventor may be entitled to a monopoly
of each. It is settled also that an inventor may make a new
improvement on his own invention of a patentable character,
for which he may obtain a separate patent, and the cases cited
by the appellee come to this point, and to this point only,
that a later patent may be granted where the invention is
clearly distinct from, and independent of, one previously
patented.
It clearly appears from a comparison of the two patents,
and their respective specifications and drawings, that the first
function or object of the patent of 1879, relating to the lifting
power of the spring, is identical with the sole object or function covered by the patent of 1881, and that the improved
device and combination for the accomplishment of the lifting
operation are identical in both patents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of. the Court.

The invention covered by the first patent, as stated in the
specification, consists in a spring which serves the double
purpose of lifting or holding down the plows at will; and it
is further stated that one spring may be adapted to serve all,
or either one, or more, of the offices above enumerated.
The patent of 1879 thus embraces both the lifting and the
depressing effects or operations of the spring device, while
that of 1881 seeks to cover only the increased lifting effect
of the same device. The first patent clearly includes the
second. No substantial distinction can be drawn between
the two, which have the same element in combination, and
the same spring arrangement and adjustment to accomplish
precisely the same lifting effect, increasing as the beams are
raised from their operative positions. The matter sought to
be covered by the second patent is inseparably involved in the
matter embraced in the former patent, and this, under the
authorities, renders the second patent void.
If the two patents in question had been.granted to different
parties, it admits of no question that the last would have been
held an infringement of the first, for the reason that the
patent of 1879 just as clearly includes as a part of the invention the increased lifting effect of the spring device, increasing
as the beams are raised, as that disclosed in the patent of
1881. It certainly did not involve patentable novelty to drop
or omit from the patent a claim for the depressing action of
the spring arrangement which might be effected by any mere
mechanical contrivance.
This view of the case is sustained by the statement in the
specification forming a part of the patent of 1881, in which it
is said: "The springs represented in the drawings are adapted
to serve the double purpose of holding the beams down, and
of lifting them, or assisting to lift them, when they are raised
above the operative position. No claim is made in the present
case to this duplex action of the springs, nor to the peculiar
form or arrangement of the springs otherwise than as regards
the feature of exerting or increasing a maximum strain on the
beams, as the latter rise, the peculiar construction of the spring
being already covered in a patent hitherto granted to me."

MILLER v. EAGLE MANTUFACTURING CO.

201

Opinion of the Court.

This statement admits that the peculiar construction of the
spring device, by means of which the lifting effect was to be
accomplished, was already covered in a patent previously
granted to the patentee -referring
to the patent of 1879.
In thus admitting the existence of a prior patented device,
identical with that described in the second specification and
drawings, it is difficult to understand upon what principle the
patentee can be allowed to withdraw from the operation of
such prior patent, one of its distinct elements, a nd make it the
subject of a second distinct patent. It is not the result, effect,
or purpose to be accomplished which constitutes invention, or
entitles a party to a patent, but the mechanical means or instrumentalities by which the object sought is to be attained,
but a patentee cannot so split up his invention for the purpose
of securing additional results, or of extending, or of prolonging the life of any or all of its elemental parts. Patents cover
the means employed to effect results. Rubber Tip Pencil
Co. v. -Howard, 20 Wall. 498, 507; Fuller v. YTentzer, 94
U. S. 288.
The prior invention covered the means, and the only means,
by which the results sought by the patent of 1881 were to be
accomplished, and it is settled that the patentee of such prior
device would be entitled to all of its uses, whether described or
not. Roberts v. Byer, 91 U. S. 150; Stow v. Chicago, 104
U. S. 547. Under these authorities a single element or function of a patented invention cannot be made the subject of a
separate and subsequent patent, and it, therefore, follows that
this increasedlifting effect of the spring device, sought to be
covered by the 1881 patent, being clearly shown and described
in the specification, drawings, and claims of the 1879 patent,
was not the subject-matter of a valid patent.
This conclusion is no way affected by the reservation attempted to be made in the 1879 patent, of the "broad idea of
a lifting spring which acts with increasing force as the beam
rises," for the reason that the broad idea sought to be reserved
is embodied in identically the same mechanical device constituting the invention and covered by the first patent, which
completely occupies all the ground that was reserved. The

OCTOBER TERMr, 1893.

Opinion of the Court.

spring and its connecting apparatus is the same in each patent,
and the claims of the first covered the double automatic
action - ~pward or downw'rd. There is nothing in the specification or claims to indicate that in the first patent the lifting
action is in any degree slighter or weaker, as the beam rises,
than in the second patent. On the contrary, both specifications clearly indicate that the spring device acts with increasing force in each patent as the beam rises.
In addition to this, it distinctly appears that every claim of
the 1881 patent could have been properly included and made
a part of the claims of the 1879 patent. With the exception
of the first broad claim of the 1881 patent, each of the other
claims include the spring device with the limiting and qualifying words, "substantially as described," and by virtue of its
reference to the specification, the lifting element of the spring
device is shown to be the same in each patent. There is
nothing in either patent, or the specification or claims thereof,
to indicate that there is any greater or stronger lifting action
in the one than in the other. It is thus shown that one
and the same mechanical device, which covers the entire invention, is described in each of the patents; and the effort to
secure a second patent on one part thereof, or on its function,
after such part or its action had been clearly described and
covered by a prior patent, cannot be sustained.
To hold under these circumstances that the first and second
patents, in respect to the lifting effect of the same spring
device, present distinct inventions, or that both are valid for
the same invention, would involve the drawing of distinctions
too refined for the practical administration of the patent law.
But aside from this 1879 patent, we think that the broad
claim of the 1881 patent is clearly anticipated by the patent
of W. P. Brown, No. 190,816, dated May 15, 1877, for an improved coupling for cultivators. The specification, forming a
part of this patent, states that to "render the ma-iipulation of
the plows or cultivator easy, I provide an arrangement whereby
either springs, weights, or the draft bar may be utilized for
sustaining a part of the weight of the said cultivators, when
they are lifted from the ground to be hung up or shifted late-

MILLER v. EAGLE MANUFACTURING CO.

203

Opinion of the Court.

rally. In accomplishing this I construct the pipe box with a
hooked arm n to lock the pipe box; and as the cultivator
beam in the rear is rigidly attached to the pipe box, by the
stirrup or sleeve, the spring has a tendency to rock the pipe
box and assist the driver in lifting the cultivators." The flat
curved spring device shown in this patent, with the link or
arm connecting its free end with the plow beam, exerts little
or no force when the drag-bars, carrying the plows, are in an
operative position; but when the latter are raised above their
normal position, and, as they are lifted, the spring exerts an
increased lifting effect, sufficient to suspend the drag-bars and
attached shovels in the air. While differing in form and mode
of attachment, this Brown device clearly anticipates the first
broad claim of the patent of 1881.
It admits of little or no question that if this Brown patent
was one of later date than the Wright patent of 1881, it would
be held to be an infringement thereof, and, under the authorities, "that which infringes if later, anticipates if earlier."
Peters v. Active .Xfg. C(o., 129 U. S. 530; Thatcher Heating
Co. v. Burtis, 121 U. S. 286, 295; Grant v. Tfralter, 148 U. S.
547, 554; Gordornv. Varder, 150 U. S. 47; Knavp v. 2Iorss,
150 U. S. 221.
In this view of the case it is not deemed necessary to determine whether the 0. A. Hague patent, No. 243,123, of June
21, 1881, or the Berlew & Kissell patent, No. 260,447, dated
July 4, 1882, anticipated that of Wright. The proofs do not
show with sufficient clearness that either of these parties perfected and put in practical operation the spring device incorporated in their patents prior to the date of the invention of
Wright. The proofs show, however, that they were experimenting-as was Wright-in 1876, 1877, and 1878 with
springs for cultivators, but the evidence tends strongly to
show that they did not perfect any*operative device prior to
May 1, 1879.
The remaining branch of the case turns upon the proper
construction to be placed upon the 1879 patent, in view of the
state of the art as illustrated in prior devices and patents.
The Peter Monaghan patent, No. 26,606, dated December

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

27, 1859, for an improvement in cotton cultivators, contains a
bow-shaped spring, with deflected ends, one of which is secured
to the cross-pieces of the shafts, while the other is free, and is
in contact with the frame to which are attached the shovels.
The spring shown in this patent is of such construction and
location as to exert a constant lifting effect on the frame carrying the shovels, and when the operator releases the handles
acts automatically in lifting the frame and in holding the plows
above their operative position.
A similar flat or curved spring device is shown in the A. H.
Allison patent, No. 61,649, dated January 29, 1867, for corn
and cotton cultivators, where one end of the spring is fastened
to the cross-beam of the main frame, while the free end bears
and raises the cross-head to which is suspended the shovels.
The shovels are made to enter the ground by means of a lever
which forces the beam down, and by releasing the lever the
springs operate to raise the shovels from the ground, and suspend them above their operative position.
In the H. N. Dalton patent, No. 95,437, dated October 5,
1869, for an improvement in a spring for a gang plow, the
spring is coiled around a crank axle upon which the wheels
revolve in the ordinary manner. The coiled spring is of such
strength that when released by the lever or other appliances
governing it, the axle is turned by the force of the spring,
thereby raising the frame to which the plow is attached. One
of the objects accomplished by the coiled spring is to enable
the operator to lift the gang plow entirely from the ground.
Again, a spring device closely resembling that of the Wright
invention is shown by the letters patent 154,666, dated September 1, 1874, issued to Marquis L. Gorham, relating to
wheeled straddle-row cultivators, consisting of an improved
device by means of which shovels are held and adjusted on the
shovel standards. The device described in the specification
and drawings consists of a spiral regulating spring, in connection with suspension rods and drag-beams, so constructed as to
suspend the drag-bars to any height, or regulate the depth
at which the shovels or plows shall work. The suspension
rods connected with the spiral spring are arranged to assist in

MILLER v. EAGLE MANUFACTURING CO.

205

Opinion of the Court.

raising the drag-bars for the purpose of elevating the plows in
a fixed position when turning or moving the machine. This
spring device is connected with the beams, and by means of
screw nuts may be contracted so as to regulate the height of
the drag-bars carrying the shovels. The spring device in this
patent exerts, automatically, an increased lifting force as the
beams are raised, or elevated above their operative position.
The second claim of that patent is "the suspension rods d,
regulating springs g, drag-bars i, in combination with hangers
e, to which they are attached, substantially as they are
described."
In addition to the foregoing spring improvements in cultivators, and like implements, letters patent for door-spring
devices were issued to H. S. Frost in 1867, and to L. A. Warner in August, 1875, and April, 1879, which have automatic
horizontal action in operating or closing the door, corresponding exactly in principle, operation, and function with the vertical action in the Wright spring device. These door springs
and their adjustment close or open the door just as the dead
centre is passed, either in an outward or inward direction.
One or more witnesses testified in this case that these doorspring devices could readily be adapted to cultivators by the
exercise of ordinary mechanical skill, and be made to perform,
by change in position, the lifting and depressing action of the
Wright spring. The witness Hague stated that he actually so
applied these door springs in 1877 and 1878. We need not
determine in this case whether the use of such springs in cultivators is analogous to their original use, so as to form anticipating devices. They show, however, the state of the art in
reference to spring devices for producing action in different
directions.
It is shown in the testimony that the spring device described
in Wright's patent of 1879 interfered with the lateral motion
of the beams, and therefore interfered with their successful
operation. It also appears that the spring had a constant
tendency to fly off the wheel, which compelled the adoption
of a loop or bail (not described as a part of his device) to
counteract such tendency; and further, that the springs were

OCTOBER TERMf, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

subject to frequent breakage, so that their use was discontinued
in 1883, about which time the appellee commenced the use of
the same spring device as that employed in the cultivators
manufactured by P. P. Mast & Company, under the patents
issued to Gardiner & Downey, No. 237,740, February 15, 1881;
Berlew & Kissell, No. 260,44:7, July 4, 1882; and to J. M.
Elder, No. 222,391, December 9, 1879, and sold by the
appellants.
The form of spring as shown in these patents was substantially adopted in 1883 by the appellee, on the theory that the
Wright patent comprehended all forms of springs for accomplishing the upward and downward action. The use of this
substituted spring for that described in the patent is, to some
extent, explained by the fact, which appears in the record,
that Wright obtained letters patent 259,656, dated June 13,
1882, for certain improvements in walking straddle-row cultivators, the specification forming part of which states "that
the invention relates to an improved manner of constructing
the frame and applying the springs for the purpose of raising,
or assisting the operator to raise, the beams or drags-bars, the
springs having, in some cases, the additional function of holding the shovels to their proper place in the ground. The
improvement consists mainly in providing the frame with
axles capable of rotating independently of the wheels, coupling the wheels directly to the axles, and providing the axles
with arms arranged to coperate with a spring, a weight, or
draft device to which the team is attached."
The spring in this 1882 patent of Wright's is spiral, encircling a rod, and bears upon collars on the lower ends of the
same. This rod is pivoted to another rod which is firmly fastened to the axle. When the shovels are in an operative position the spring performs no function. But when the rod
attached to the axle, and pivoted to the rod upon which the
spring is mounted, is thrown off its centre, then the function of
the spring is to depress or elevate the shovels, just as the
pivoted rod connected with the spring is thrown backward or
forward. The real object of the spring is to raise the shovels,
which is accomplished by slightly elevating the handles. This

MILLER v. EAGLE MAIUFACTURING

CO.

207

Opinion of the Court.

action deflects the straight downward pressure of the spring
to an angle formed by the bent joint between the rigidly
attached rod on the axle and rod encircled by the spring,
thereby causing the axle to revolve forward. When the spring
is straight and in a vertical line with the axle it performs
no function whatever, just precisely the same as with the
door spring when the door is in the neutral position, or on the
dead centre. The form of this spring, and its mode of operation, is identical with that adopted by the appellee in 1883, in
place of the original spring device, shown in the patent of 1879.
The taking out of this patent, covering precisely what is
now claimed for the patent of 1879, clearly indicates that the
latter patent was not supposed to extend to the device covered
by the 1882 patent, which is not distinguishable from the prior
patents issued to Gardiner & Downey, Berlew & iKissell, and
J. M. Elder, under which P. P. Mast & Company construct
the cultivators sold by the appellants.
The range of equivalents depends upon the extent and
nature of the invention. If the invention is broad or primary
in its character, the range of equivalents will be correspondingly broad, under the liberal construction which the courts
give to such inventions. The doctrine is well stated in X3orley
.facltine Co. v. Laneaster, 129 U. S. 263, 273, where it is said:
"Where an invention is one of a primary character, and the
mechanical functions performed by the machine are, as a
whole, entirely new, all subsequent machines which employ
substantially the same means to accomplish the same result
are infringements, although the subsequent machine may contain improvements in the separate mechanisms which go to
make up the machine."
Tested by this rule, and in view of the prior devices and
the great variety of springs in use previous to the granting
of his patent, Wright cannot be treated as a pioneer in the
art. Neither can he, nor his assignee, be allowed to invoke
the doctrine of equivalents, such as the courts extend to primary inventions, so as to include all forms of spring devices
and adjustments which operate to perform the same function,
or accomplish the same result.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Again, the issuance of the patents to Gardiner & Downey,
Berlew & Kissell, and Elder creates a prima facie presumption of a patentable difference from that of the Wright patent
of 1879. Corning v. Burden, 15 How. 252; _Dzw v. &srling
Pump Co., 107 U. S. 636.
We think it manifest, from the prior state of the art, if the
invention covered by his patent of 1879 was not anticipated,
and if it has any validity, that it must be limited and confined
to the specific spring device which is described in the specification and shown in the drawings forming parts of the letters
patent. Being thus limited, there is clearly no infringement
in the device used by the appellants or their principals, P. P.
Mast & Company.
The specific device described in and covered by the Wright
patent could not be used in the appellants' combination, nor
the appellants' spring in the appellees' combination. This
interchangeability, or non-interchangeability, is an important
test in determining the question of infringement. Prouty v.
Ruggles, 16 Pet. 336; Brooks v. F7iske, 15 How. 212; Eames
v. Godfrey, 1 Wall. 78.
In respect to the so-called depressing action of the spring,
when the drag-bars and shovels are lowered to an operative
position, it is perfectly manifest that little or no effect is produced in that direction, for the reason that the downward
movement of the shovels is limited, and more greatly restricted
than the upward movement of the beams or drag-bars, the
range of movement, in other words, not being in the downward line anything like that in the upward direction of the
drag-bars. Hence, the depressing effect of the spring is of no
practical importance. The operator holding the handles of
the cultivator is not assisted, to any appreciable extent, in
keeping the plows in the ground by the depressing action of
the spring. The downward action or position of the shovels
is not required to go, and does not in fact go, below their
operative position, at which point the spring device becomes
practically inoperative.
Our conclusion on the whole case is that the patent of 1881
is anticipated by that of 1879; that the first claim thereof is

CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. v. LOWELL.
Syllabus.

anticipated by the Brown patent; that the patent of 1879, in
view of the state of the art, is to be limited and restricted,
if it has any validity at all, to the specific spring therein
described; and, as thus restricted, it is clearly not infringed.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the decree of the court
below should be
.Reversed, and the cause remanded,witAh directions to dismiss

the bill.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. LOWELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR TH1

DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 173. Argued December 19, 1893.-Decided January 8,1894.

The station of a railway near a large town contained platforms and other
accommodations on each side of the tracks, with a double track between
them on which many trains were moving both day and night. There was
an underground connection between the two by means of a public street,
which was in a bad condition. It was a rule of the company that "when
a train is standing on a double track for passengers, trains from the
opposite direction will come to a stop with the engines opposite to each
other." A passenger who was in the habit of travelling on the road and
of stopping at this station arrived there in the rear car, in which a notice
was posted, that passengers leaving the car by the forward end should
turn to the right, and that those leaving by the rear should turn to the
left, in each case landing the passenger on the platform, "and thus
avoid danger from trains on the opposite track." The passenger passed
out at the forward end, where he found the collector, gave up his ticket,
and passed out at the left, on the track, with the knowledge of the collector, and without any objection on his part. In crossing he was struck
by an engine coming from an opposite direction, which had not observed
the rule to stop. He brought suit to recover damages for the injuries
which he had suffered. The company set up the defence of contributory
negligence. Plaintiff, as a witness in his own behalf, testified that he
had never seen the notice posted in the car, and that he had been in the
habit of alighting on the left side, without objection. When plaintiff
rested, the defendant asked the court to instruct the jury to find a verdict for it on the ground that the contributory negligence of the plaintiff
VOL. CLI-14

