OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

ciding and disposing of the whole merits of the cause, and
discharging the parties from further attendance. We cannot
dispose of the case by piecemeal, and until the boundary line
throughout its extent is determined, all orders in the case will
be interlocutory.
In the exercise of original jurisdiction in the determination
of the boundary line between sovereign States, this court proceeds only upon the utmost circumspection and deliberation,
and no order can stand in respect of which full opportunity to
be heard has not been afforded. Without intimating any
opinion on the controversy raised as to the action of the commissioners,

The order of April 10, 1893, so far as it confirms the report
in question, will be vacated, and it is so ordered.

In re BONNER, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 8. Original. Argued November 27, 28, 1893.-Decided January 15, 1894.

When a person accused of crime is convicted in a court of the United
States and is sentenced by the court, under Rev. Stat. ยง 5356, to imprisonment for one year and the payment of a fine, the court is without
jurisdiction to further adjudge that that imprisonment shall take place in
a state penitentiary under Rev. Stat. ยง 5546; and the prisoner, if sentenced to be confined in a state penitentiary, is entitled to a writ of
habeas corpus directing his discharge from the custody of the warden of
the state penitentiary, but without prejudice to the right of the United
States to take any lawful measures to have the petitioner sentenced in
accordance with law upon the verdict against him.
Where a conviction is correct, and where the error or excess of jurisdiction
is the ordering the prisoner to be confined in a penitentiary where the
law does not allow the court to send him, there is no good reason why
jurisdiction of the prisoner should not be reassumed by the court that
imposed the sentence, in order that its defect may be corrected.
The court discharging the lirisoner in such case on habeas cous should
delay his discharge for such reasonable time as may be necessary to have
him taken before the court where the judgment was rendered, in order
that the defects in the former judgment for want of jurisdiction, which
are the subjects of complaint, may be corrected.

IN RE BONNER, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

THE petitioner, John Bonner, a citizen of the United States,
represents that he is now and has been since the 23d of May,
1893, unlawfully deprived of his liberty by one P. W. Madden,
as warden of the penitentiary of Iowa., situated in Anamosa
in that State.

He sets forth, as the cause of his restraint and

detention, that at the October term, 1892, of the United States
court for the Third Judicial Division of the Indian Territory,

he was indicted for the larceny, in May previous, in the Chickasaw Nation, within the Indian Territory, of four head of
cattle of the value of fifty dollars, the property of one Robert
Williams, who was not a member of any Indian tribe; that
during that mouth he was arraigned before the same court and

pleaded not guilty to the indictment, and was tried and found
guilty. The statute under which the indictment was found is
contained in section 5356 of the Revised Statutes, and is as
follows: "Every person who, upon the high seas, or in any
place under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States,
takes and carries away, with intent to steal or purloin, the
personal goods of another, shall be punished by a fine of not
more than one thousand dollars, or by imprisonment not more
than one year, or by both such fine and imprisonment." The
court by its judgment sentenced the petitioner to imprisonment
in the penitentiary at Anamosa in the State of Iowa for the
term of one year, and to the payment of a fine of one thousand
dollars. It also added that the marshal of the court, to whose
custody he was then committed, should safely keep and convey the petitioner and deliver him to the custody of the warden
of the penitentiary, who would receive and keep him in prison
for the period of one year in execution of the sentence. The
petitioner also sets forth that the warden of the penitentiary
has no other authority to hold him than the said judgment
and order of commitment.
The petitioner alleges that the said sentence and order of
commitment are void; that the court was without power or
jurisdiction, under the law, to render the judgment; and that
he had applied to the United States Judge of the lNorthern
District of Iowa for a writ of labeas corpus to be released
from confinement, and that the writ was denied to him. He,

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Petitioner.

therefore, prays that this court will issue the writ of habeas
corpu to the said warden to appear before this court and show
what authority, if any, he has for restraining the petitioner of
his liberty, and that upon final hearing he may be discharged.
An order was issued from this court in October last to the
warden to show cause why the writ should not be granted as
prayed. The warden returns answer that heholds the prisoner
by virtue of a warrant of commitment issued upon the judgment and sentence of the United States court, as above stated,
of which a copy is annexed to the petition, and that at the
time of the petitioner's conviction, and of the judgment and
sentence, there was no penitentiary or jail suitable for the confinement of convicts or available therefor in the Indian Territory, and that the state penitentiary at Anamosa had been
duly designated by the Attorney General, under section 5546
of the Revised Statutes of the United States, as the place of
confinement for prisoners convicted of crime by that court,
and that the order of the court for the confinement of the petitioner in that penitentiary under its sentence of imprisonment
was in pursuance of that designation.
So much of section 5546 of the Revised Statutes as bears
upon the question under consideration in this case is as follows: "All persons who have been or who may hereafter be
convicted of crime by any court of the United States, whose
punishment is imprisonment, in a district or territory where,
at the time of conviction, there may be no penitentiary or jail
suitable for the confinement of convicts or available therefor,
shall be confined during the term for which they have been
or may be sentenced in some suitable jail or penitentiary in
a convenient State or Territory, to be designated by the
Attorney General, and shall be transported and delivered to
the warden or keeper of such jail or penitentiary by the
marshal of the district or territory where the conviction has
occurred."

.- r. John C. Chaney, (with whom was Mr. William T Ran,
zells on the brief,) for petitioner.

IT INE BONNER, Petitioner.
Argument against the Petition.

.2Wr. Solicitor General opposing.
I. An excessive sentence upon a lawful conviction is not
absolutely void, so as to entitle the prisoner to be discharged
on habeas cor2pus.
It is true that in the case of Mills, 135 U. S. 263, 270, the
petitioner was discharged on habeas corpus because he had
been sentenced to imprisonment in a penitentiary instead of
in a jail, upon the ground, as stated by Mr. Justice Harlan
delivering the opinion of the court, that "The court below
was without jurisdiction to pass any such sentences, and the
orders directing the sentences of imprisonment to be executed
in a penitentiary are void. This is not a case of 'mere error,
but one in which the court below transcended its powers. Ex
parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163, 176; Ew parte Parks, 93 U. S.
18, 23; Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 343; Fc' parte
Rowland, 104 U. S. 604, 612; In re Coy, 127 U. S. 731, '738;
Hans Nielsen, Petitioner,131 U. S. 176, 182."
I am obliged to admit upon the authority of that case,
construing Revised Statutes, sections 5541, 554-7, that the
petitioner should not have been sentenced to imprisonment in
a penitentiary, but I beg to submit that the judgment and
sentence are not for that reason absolutely void, so as to
entitle the petitioner to a writ of habeas corpus for his discharge; and I ask the court to reconsider the doctrine announced in the passage quoted above from the opinion of
Mr. Justice Harlan.
I respectfully submit that the authorities cited by Mr. Justice
Harlan do not support his statement of the law. None of
them involve the question of an excessive sentence at all,
except Ex parte -Lange, and in that case the court said in
express terms that the excessive sentence was not void, but
only voidable; and a writ of habeas corpus having, been
denied in three of the remaining five cases cited, they certainly
cannot be accepted as adjudications in favor of the point
ruled in Fc parts Hills.
In F parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163, 176, the petitioner had
been convicted in the Circuit Court, under a statute which

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument against the Petition.

authorized the court to impose either a fine of not more than
$200, or imprisonment not to exceed one year. The court
erroneously sentenced the petitioner to pay a fine of $200 and
to be imprisoned for a period of one year; and the defendant,
having paid the fine of $200, was brought into court and, the
error in awarding judgment against him having been discovered, an order was entered vacating the judgment, fixing
the punishment at a fine and imprisonment both, and the
prisoner was a second time sentenced to one year's imprisonment from the date of the second judgment. This court held
that he was entitled to an absolute discharge upon habeas
eoipus, but upon the ground that he had already satisfied the
penalty of one of the alternative judgments prescribed by the
statute, in the payment of the fine of $200, and that he could
not, therefore, be properly adjudged to undergo imprisonment.
Mr. Justice Miller said (p. 176): "The record of the court's
proceedings, at the moment the second sentence was rendered,
showed that in that very case and for that very offence the
prisoner had fully performed, completed, and endured one of
the alternative punishments which the law prescribed for that
offence, and had suffered five days' imprisonment on account
of the other. It thus showed the court that its power to
punish for that offence was at an end."
But the learned justice took occasion to say that the original
judgment, in awarding the excessive punishment of both fine
and imprisonment, was not for that reason void, but only erroneous. He said (p. 174): "The judgment first rendered, though
erroneous, was not absolutely void. It was rendered by a court
which had jurisdiction of the party and of the offence, on.a
valid verdict. The error of the court in imposing the two
punishments mentioned in the statute, when it had only the
alternative of one of them, did not make the judgment wholly
void."
In Ex parte Payks, 93 U. S. 18, 23, Mr. Justice Bradley
thus stated the ground of the judgment in the case of Lange:
"In Ex parte Lange we proceeded on the ground that when
the court rendered its second judgment the case was entirely
out of its hands. It was faznctus offlcio in regard to it. The

IN lRE BOITNER, Petitioner.
Argument against the Petition.

judgment first rendered had been executed and satisfied. The
subsequent proceedings were therefore, according to our view,
void."
In Sennott's Case, 146 Mass. 489, 493, Knowlton, J., said of
the case of Lange: "The leading cases of Ew parte Lange,
18 Wall. 163, and People v. Liscomb, 60 N. Y. 559, do not
decide that a sentence which is merely erroneous and excessive
through a mistake of law is void, in such a sense as to make
an officer liable for executing it, or to call for a discharge upon
habeas coipus of a person held under it. Indeed, in the former
case, Mr. Justice Miller, in his opinion, at page 174, asserts
that it is not. The principle upon which this case goes is, that
when a court has once imposed a sentence, whether in accordance with law or not, which has been served or performed in
whole or in part, it has no jurisdiction to impose another, either
in addition to or in substitution for the first. And the case of
Piople v. Liscomb, rests on similar grounds. See _People v.
Jacobs, 66 N. Y. 8.'1
Ex parte Parks was not the case of an excessive sentence,
but of sentence under an indictment which, it was claimed by
the petitioner, charged him with no crime against the laws of
the United States; but this court held that that was a question
which the trial court had jurisdiction to determine, and a writ
of habeas corpus was accordingly denied. The case is surely
no authority for the proposition that an excessive sentence is
a void sentence. No case to that effect was cited by Mr. Justice Bradley, and no countenance to such a view was given by
anything said in his opinion. On the contrary, after citing, in
addition to Ex parte Lange, Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38,
and Exsparte Wells, 18 How. 307, in both of which writs were
denied, and in the first of which the rule, that habeas corpus
cannot be used as a writ of error, was declared in the strongest
terms by Mr. Justice Story, Mr. Justice Bradley said (p. 23):
"But if the court had jurisdiction and power to convict and
sentence, the writ cannot issue to correct a mere error. .
But, in the case before us, the district court had plenary jurisdiction, both of the person, the place, the cause, and everything
about it. To review the decision of that court by means of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument against the Petition.

the writ of habeas corpus would be to convert that writ into a
mere writ of error and to assume an appellate power which
has never been conferred upon this court."
In Exparte Virginia,100 U. S. 339, it was claimed that the
act under which the prisoner was arrested was unconstitutional, but this court held otherwise and denied the writ.
The case of Coy is to the same effect, the court denying the
writ and refusing to consider the sufficiency of the indictment.
In Hans YSielsen, Petitioner,131 U. S. 176, the prisoner was
convicted and sentenced for the crime of adultery, which was
included in the crime of unlawful cohabitation for which he
had previously been convicted and punished, and this court
ordered his discharge, upon the ground that the trial court
was without jurisdiction to render any judgment, the prisoner
having already been convicted of the same offence.
Having endeavored to show, by an analysis of the cases cited
in E
.parte .Mills, that none of them support the doctrine announced in that case, that an excessive sentence upon a lawful
conviction is void, I now refer the court to several well-considered cases in which the opposite rule is adjudged.
In Sennotts Case, 146 Mass. 489, 492, 493, which involved a
sentence not in accordance with the statutes, and 'in which the
court refused a habeas corpus, Knowlton, J., said: "The better
rule seems to be, that where a court has jurisdiction of the
person, and of the offence, the imposition by mistake of a sentence, in excess of what the law permits, is within the jurisdiction, and does not render the sentence void, but only
voidable by proceedings upon a writ of error. Ross's Case, 2
Pick. 165 ; Feeley's Case, 12 Cush. 598, 599; Semler, Petitioner,
41 Wisconsin, 517; Ex parte Shaw, 7 Ohio St. 81; Exparte
Van Hagan, 25 Ohio St. 426; Phinney, Petitioner,32 Maine,
440; Kirby v. State, 62 Alabama, 51; Lark v. State, 55 Georgia, 435."
Ex parte Siaw, 7 Ohio St. 81, 82, was a case of habeas
corpus for the release of a prisoner sentenced to imprisonment
for one year, under a statute which required a sentence for a
period of not less thail three years. Swan, J., said: "Does
this render the sentence void and the commitment of the re-

IN

RE BONNER, Petitioner.

Argument against the Petition.

lator unlawful? The question is one simply of jurisdiction.
The court had jurisdiction over the offence and its punishment.
It had authority to pronounce sentence; and, while in the
legitimate exercise of its power, committed a manifest error
and mistake in the award of the number of years of the punishment. The sentence was not void, but erroneous.
But if the court had sentenced the relator for an offence over
which, by law, it had no jurisdiction whatever, so that the proceedings and sentence were manifestly coram non judice and
void, the imprisonment following such void sentence would
have been unlawful, and the relktor entitled to be discharged
on habeas eorjus."
A similar rule was applied in Ex parte 'Fan Ragan, 52
Ohio St. 426, where the petitioner, upon a lawful convicfion, had been erroneously sentenced to imprisonment in
the workhouse for six months; instead of for thirty days in the
dungeon of the county jail, as prescribed by the. statute;
and in Williams v. State, 18 Ohio St. 46, 49, where the sentence was vague and indefinite, being imprisonment for
"ten years, to commence at the expiration of the sentence
aforesaid," there being nothing in the record showing to
what the term "aforesaid" related, the court remanded the
case "for judgment and sentence upon the verdict of the
jury pursuant to law," with this observation: "As the error
in this case is only in the insufficiency of the judgment and
sentence of the court, the reversal will not affect the validity
of the conviction."
In re Graham, and In re McDonald, 4 Wisconsin, 450,
the petitioners applied for writs of habeas corpus, claiming to
have been sentenced respectively to imprisonment in the state
prison for thirteen and fourteen years, when the act under
which convictions were had, permitted imprisonment for not
more than ten years nor less than three years. The court
said: "We deny the writs for the reason that the error in
the judgments does not render them void, or the imprisonment under them illegal, in that sense which entitles them to
be discharged on a writ of habeas corpus. The judgments
are doubtless erroneous and would be reversed on writ of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument against the Petition.

error. But the judgments are not void. The court had
jurisdiction of the persons and subject-matter or offence, but
made a mistake in the judgment. For mere error, no matter
how flagrant, the remedy is not by habeas corpus. The law
is well settled in this court that on habeas coryus only jurisdictional defects are inquired into. The writ does not raise
questions of errors in law or irregularities in the proceedings."
The prisoners applied a second time for writs, but they were
refused, 76 Wisconsin, 366. Graham then applied to this
court, In Pe C-raham, 138 U. S. 461, but his application was
denied on the ground that there was no Federal question
involved.
In Elsner v. Shrigley, 80 Iowa, 30, 34, the plaintiff was convicted of maintaining a nuisance and sentenced to pay a fine
of $300 and costs, including an attorney's fee of $50. The
judgment further provided for imprisonment for failure to pay,
at hard labor, until the fine and costs were paid. The prisoner
sued out a writ of habeas cor us, claiming that the judgment
was void, because it failed to fix the time for which he was to
be imprisoned. The court said: "It was not, of course, to be
understood that a court has acted in a lawful manner when
the judgment it pronounces is absolutely void, for such a judgment has no support in the law. Neither the law in its substance nor 'manner or form' can aid it. But if it is merely
voidable, it has support until set aside in a proper proceeding.
The court in that proceeding had jurisdiction of the subject
matter and of the person. It had the right to impose a fine,
and provide for imprisonment until the fine was paid. In so
doing it could not make the imprisonment exceed one day for
each three and one-third dollars. If the judgment exceeded
the limit of the law, it would be void as to the excess, but not
as to the remainder. People v. Jacobs, 66 N. Y. 8; People v.
-Baker, 89 N. Y. 460. Conceding that the court could, under
the language of the statute, make the imprisonment less than
the rate named, it could not make it more, and within the
limits it possessed a discretionary power, and in the erroneous
exercise of such a power a court cannot generally, if ever, be

IN RE BONNER, Petitioner.
Argument against the Petition.

said to be acting in an unlawful manner, nor are such acts
generally, if ever, absolutely void."
In the next paragraph the court said that the failure of the
trial judge to fix a definite term of imprisonment "made the
judgment erroneous, but not void, and the law on appeal
afforded the plaintiff ample protection." And they "reached
the conclusion that habeas corpus is not available to question the correctness of the proceedings of the' district court
with reference to the judgment in question," and affirmed the
judgment, remanding the petitioner to custody, citing many
authorities (p. 36).
In Exparte 2[ax, 44 California, 579, 581, Max petitioned to
be discharged, on habeas corpus, because he was sentenced as
for conviction of a felony when he was convicted of a misdemeanor merely. His counsel contended that the judgment
was absolutely void, and conferred no authority to the warden to detain the petitioner. The court said: "We are of
opinion, however, that the position cannot be maintained.
The indictment upon which judgment is founded is sufficient
in all respects; the offence of which the pris6ner was convicted
was one within the scope of the indictment, and the judgment
one which the county court had the authority to render upon
the appearance and plea of the petitioner. These conditions
constitute jurisdiction; all others involve questions of mere
error, and the latter cannot be inquired into upon writ of
habeas corpus, but only upon proceedings in error."
In People v. Xelly, 97 N. Y. 212, an application was made
for a writ of habeas corpus by a prisoner who had been convicted of an assault in the third degree, and sentenced to imprisonment at hard labor in the state prison for the term of
one year. The Court of Appeals held that the offence was a
misdemeanor, and punishable only by imprisonment for not
more than one year, or by a fine of not more than $500, or by
both. The case is one of an excessive sentence upon a valid
conviction. But the court refused to discharge the petitioner,
and remanded him to the sheriff in order that the trial court
might deal with him according to law.
In E eparte Bond, 9 S. C. 80, the petitioner had been con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument against the Petition.

victed of assault with intent to kill and sentenced to confinement in the penitentiary at hard labor. The court held that
the offence was not punishable by confinement in the state
penitentiary, and that the sentence was therefore erroneous,
but that it was not void, and refused to discharge the prisoner on habeas corpus.
In re Petty, 22 Kansas, 477, was an original proceeding in
habeas co2pus: The petitioner, for a murder committed in
1866, was sentenced, under an act of 1872, which provided
that a person sentenced to death was to be delivered to the
warden of the penitentiary, under a warrant of a court pronouncing judgment, and kept at hard labor within the walls
of the penitentiary until the warden received the order of the
governor fixing the day on which the sentence of the law was
to be carried into effect, which order should not be made
before one year had elapsed from the time of conviction.
Prior to the act of 1872, whenever any convict was sentenced
to the punishment of death, the court appointed a day on
which such sentence was to be executed, the day not being
less than four nor more than eight weeks from the time of the
sentence. The court held that the prisoner was not subject
to the punishment of the act of 1872; but that the trial court
having had jurisdiction of the person of the prisoner and of
the offence, the verdict was valid; that under the verdict he
was liable to be sentenced to the punishment of death, and
that the proviso in the sentence that the governor should set
the day of the execution at a time not less than one year from
the day of sentence "was an irregularity, or rather an erroneous order, to carry out the sentence of death, and not a void
judgment." The writ was denied, and the prisoner remanded
to the custody of the warden.
In Phinney, Petitioner,32 Maine, 440, the sentence of the
petitioner had erroneously ordered the fine to be paid to the
State. The court, while recognizing the error, said: "Still
the judgment is valid until reversed," and refused to discharge
the prisoner.
Th, People v. Cavanagh, 2 Parker's Orim. Rep. (N. Y.)
650, 662, was a case in haleas corpus for relief from an errone-

IN RE BONNER, Petitioner.
Argument against the Petition.

ous sentence of imprisonment. The court said: "There is no
force in the point'raised that Cavanagh should have been
sentenced to the penitentiary, and not to the county jail. We
must assume that the oyer and terminer determined it had the
power to pronounce the sentence under which he was imprisoned. If it was an error to designate the county jail as
the place of his confinement, which I by no means assert, it
cannot be reviewed and corrected in this proceeding. It forms
no ground for his discharge upon habeas corpus."
In Exparte Mooney, 26 W. Va. 32, 36, the writ was refused
to a prisoner who had been improperly sentenced to both fine
and imprisonment.
The sentence at bar is in accordance with the statute in the
amount of the fine and in the term of the imprisonment imposed. It violates the statute only in the designation of the
place of imprisonment. I beg to submit whether, in view of
the provisions of title 70, chapter 9, of the Revised Statutes,
the designation by the United States courts of the place at
which their sentences of imprisonment shall be executed, is
such a part of the sentence itself as to make the sentence
absolutely void if there is error in the designation. In Ex
parte 1aternzan, 33 Fed. Rep. 29, 30, Coxe, J., referring to
these statutes said: "By these provisions Congress clearly
recognizes a distinction between a sentence and an order for
the execution of the sentence. After the. former has been
passed, the order is made designating the prison, but the order
is not necessarily a part of the judgment of the court." This
seems to be a plausible view of section 5541 of the Revised
Statutes, which provides that, "in every case where any person convicted of any offence against the United States is
sentenced to imprisonment for a period longer than one year,
the court by which the sentence is passed may order the same
to be executed in any state jail or penitentiary."
II. The petitioner should not be released on habeas cor.us,
even if he is entitled to be discharged on writ of error. The
practice at common law is well established.
III. The erroneous sentence can be corrected in the Circuit
Court of Appeals, the conviction being valid, and the petitioner
should not therefore be discharged absolutely.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

IV. The petitioner should be remitted to the Circuit Court
for relief.
Mr. JusrICE

FIELD,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The petitioner asks for the issue of the writ of habeas corpu8
in order that he may be thereby set at liberty, on the ground
that his imprisonment in the penitentiary at Anamosa in
Iowa is in pursuance of a judgment of a court which possessed
no authority under the law to pass sentence upon him of imprisonment in the state penitentiary, upon his conviction of
the offence for which he was indicted and tried. That is a
sentence which can only be imposed where it is specifically
prescribed, or where the imprisonment ordered is for a period
longer than one year, or at hard labor. To an imprisonment
for that period or at hard labor in a state penitentiary infamy
is attached, and a taint of that character can be cast only in
the cases mentioned.
Section 5356 of the :Revised Statutes of the United States,
under which the defendant was indicted and convicted, prescribes as a punishment for the offences designated fine or
imprisonment - the fine not to exceed one thousand dollars
and the imprisonment not more than one year, or by both
such fine and imprisonment. Such imprisonment cannot be
enforced in a state penitentiary. Its limitation being to one
year, must be enforced elsewhere. Section 5541 of the Revised
Statutes provides that: "In every case where any person convicted of any offence against the United States is sentenced to
imprisonment for a period longer than one year, the court by
which the sentence is passed may order the same to be executed in any state jail or penitentiary within the district or
State where such court is held, the use of which jail or penitentiary is allowed by the legislature of the State for that purpose." And section 5542 provides for a similar imprisonment
in a state jail or penitentiary where the person has been convicted of any offence against the United States and sentenced
to imprisonment and confinement at hard labor. It follows

IN lE BOiER, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

that the court had no jurisdiction to order an imprisonment,
when the place is not specified in the law, to be executed in a
penitentiary when the imprisonment is not ordered for a
period longer than one year or at hard labor. The statute is
equivalent to a direct denial of any authority on the part of
the court to direct that imprisonment be executed in a penitentiary in any cases other than those specified. Whatever
discretion, therefore, the court may possess, in prescribing the
extent of imprisonment as a punishment for the offence committed, it cannot, in specifying the place of imprisonment, name
one of these institutions. This has been expressly adjudged in
In Re .Xills, 135 U. S. 263, 270, which, in one part of it, presents features in all respects similar to those of the present case.
There the petitioner, Mills, was detained by the warden of
the state penitentiary in Columbus,, Ohio, pursuant to two
judgments of the District Court of the United States for the
Western District of Arkansas sentencing him in each case to
confinement in the penitentiary of that State. Application
was made by the prisoner for a writ of hiabeas corpus, on the
ground that the court by which he was tried had no jurisdiction of the offences with which he was charged, and on the
further ground that his detention in the penitentiary under
the sentences, neither of which was for a longer period than
one year, was contrary to the laws of the United States. The
first position was not considered tenable, but the second was
deemed sufficient to authorize the issue of the writ. The
court held that, apart from any question as to whether the
court below had jurisdiction to try the offence charged, the detention of the petitioner in the penitentiary upon sentences,
neither of which was for imprisonment longer than one year,
was in violation of the laws of the United States, and that he
was, therefore, entitled to be discharged from the custody of
the warden of the institution. "A sentence simply of ' imprisonment,'" said the court, "in the case of a person convicted of an offence against the United States-where the
statute prescribing the punishment does not require that the
accused shall be confined in a penitentiary - cannot be executed by confinement in that institution, except in cases where

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the sentence is 'for a period longer than one year.' There is
consequently no escape from the conclusion that the judgment
of the eourt sentencing the petitioner to imprisonment in a
penitentiary, in one case for a year and in the other for six
months, was in violation of the statutes of the United States.
The court below was without jurisdiction to pass any such
sentences, and the orders directing the sentences of imprisonment to be executed in a penitentiary are void." The court
added: "This is not a case of mere error, but one in which
the court below transcended its powers," citing Ex parte
Lange, 18 Wall. 163, 176; E parte Parks, 93 U. S. 18, 23 ;
Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 313; Ex parte Rowland,
104 U. S. 604, 612; In re Coy, 127 U. S. 731, 738; and Hrans
.ielsen, Petitioner,131 U. S. 176, 182.
Counsel for the government admits that, ul'on the authority
of that case construing the Revised Statutes, the petitioner
should not have been sentenced to imprisonment in the
penitentiary; but he claims that the judgment and sentence
are not for that cause void so as to entitle the petitioner to a
writ of habeas corpus for his discharge, and he asks the court
to reconsider the doctrine announced, contending that neither
the reason of the law nor the authorities sustain the position.
According to his argument, it would seem that the court does
not exceed its jurisdiction when it directs imprisonment in a
penitentiary, to which place it is expressly forbidden to order
it. It would be as well, and be equally within its authority,
for the court to order the imprisonment to be in the guardhouse of a fort, or the hulks of a prison-ship, or in any other
place not specified in the law.
We are unable to agree with the learned counsel, -but are
of opinion that in all cases where life or liberty is affected by
its proceedings, the court must keep strictly within the limits
of the law authorizing it to take jurisdiction and to try the
case and to render judgment. It cannot pass beyond those
limits in any essential requirement in either stage of these proceedings; and its authority in those particulars is not to be
enlarged by any mere inferences from the law or doubtful
construction of its terms. There has been a great deal said

IN RE BONNER, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

and written, in many cases with embarrassing looseness of
expression, as. to the jurisdiction of the courts in criminal
cases. From a somewhat extended examination of the authorities we will venture to state some rule applicable to all of
them, by which the jurisdiction as to any particular judgment
of the court in such cases may be determined. It is plain
that such court has jurisdiction to render a particular judgment only when the offence charged is within the class of
offences placed by the law under its jurisdiction; and when, in
taking custody of the accused, and in its modes of procedure
to the determination of the question of his guilt or innocence,
and in rendering judgment, the court keeps within the limitations prescribed by the law, customary or statutory. When
the court goes out of these limitations, its action, to the extent of such excess, is void. Proceeding within these limitations, its action may be erroneous, hut not void.
To illustrate: In order that a court may take jurisdiction of
a criminal case, the law must, in the first instance, authorize it
to act upon a particular class of offences within which the one
presented is embraced. Then comes the mode of the presentation of the offence to the court. That is specifically prescribed. If the offence be a felony, the accusation in the
Federal court must be made by a grand jury summoned to
investigate the charge of the public prosecutor against the
accused. Such indictment can only be found by a specified
number of the grand jury. If not found by that nuihber, the
court cannot proceed at all. If the offence be only a misdemeanor, not punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary,
M ackin v. United States, 117 U. S. 348, the accusation may
be made by indictment of the grand jury or by information of
the public prosecutor. An information is a formal charge
against the accused of the offence, with such particulars as to&
time, place, and attendant circumstances as will apprise him
of the nature of the charge he is to meet, signed by the public
prosecutor. When the indictment is found, or the information
is filed, a warrant is issued for the arrest of the accused to be
brought before the court, unless he is at the time in custody,
in which case an order for that purpose is made, to the end, in
VOL. CLI-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

either case, that he may be arraigned and plead to the indictment or information. When he is brought before the court,
objections to the validity or form of the indictment or information, if made, are considered, or issue is joined upon the
accusation. When issue is thus joined, the court must proceed to trial by a jury, except in case of the accused's confession. It cannot then proceed to determine the issue in any
other way. When the jury have rendered their verdict, the
court has to pronounce the proper judgment upon such verdict - and the law, in prescribing the punishment, either as
to the extent, or the mode, or the place of it, should be followed. If the court is authorized to impose imprisonment,
and it exceeds the time prescribed by law, the judgment is
void for the excess. If the law prescribes a place of imprisonment, the court cannot direct a different place not authorized;
it cannot direct imprisonment in a penitentiary when the law
assigns that institution for imprisonment under judgments of
a different character. If the case be a capital one, and the
punishment be death, it must be inflicted in the form prescribed by law. Although life is to be extinguished, it cannot
be by any other mode. The proposition put forward by counsel that if the court has authority to inflict the punishment
prescribed, its action is not void, though it pursues any form
or mode which may commend itself to its discretion, is certainly not to be tolerated. Imprisonment might be accompanied with inconceivable misery and mental suffering, by its
solitary character or other attending circumstances. Death
might be inflicted by torture, or by starvation, or by drawing
and quartering. All these modes, or any of them, would be
permissible, if the doctrine asserted by him can be maintained.
A question of some difficulty arises, which has been disposed of in different ways, and that is as to the validity of a
judgment which exceeds in its extent the duration of time prescribed by law. With many courts and judges-perhaps
with the majority -such judgment is considered valid to the
extent to which the law allowed it to be entered, and only
void for the excess. Following out this argument, it is further
claimed that, therefore, the writ of habeas corpus cannot be

IN RE BONIER, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

invoked for the relief of a party until the time has expired to
which the judgment should have been limited. But that
question is only of speculative interest here, for there is here
no question of excess of punishment. The'prisoner is ordered
to be confined in the penitentiary, where the law does not
allow the court to send him for a single hour. To deny the
writ of hlabeas corpus in such a case is a virtual suspension of
it; and it should be constantly borne in mind that the writ
was intended as a protection of the citizen from encroachment
upon his liberty from any source -equally as well from the
unauthorized acts of courts and judges as the unauthorized
acts of individuals.
The law of our country takes care, or-should take care, that
not the weight of a judge's finger shall fall upon any one
except as specifically authorized. A rigid adherence to this
doctrine will give far greater security and safety to the citizen than permitting the exercise of an unlimited discretion on
the part of the courts in the imposition of punishments as to
their extent, or as to the mode or place of their execution,
leaving the injured party, in case of error, to the slow remedy
of an appeal from the erroneous judgment or order, which, in
most cases, would be unavailing to give relief. In the case
before us, had an appeal been taken from the judgment of the
United States court of the Indian Territory, it would hardly
have reached a determination before the period of the sentence would have expired, and the wrong caused by the imprisonment in the penitentiary have been inflicted.
Much complaint is made that persons are often discharged
from arrest and imprisonment when their conviction, upon
which such imprisonment was ordered, is perfectly correct,
the excess of jurisdiction on the part of the court being
in enlarging the punishment or in enforcing it in a different
mode or place than that provided by the law. But in such
cases there need not be any failure of justice; for, where the
conviction is correct and the error or excess of jurisdiction has
been as stated, there does not seem to be any good reason why
jurisdiction of the prisoner should not be reassumed by the court
that imposed the sentence in order that its defect may be cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

rected. The judges of all courts of record are magistrates,
and their object should be not to turn loose upon society persons who have been justly convicted of criminal offences, but,
where the punishment imposed, in the mode, extent, or place
of its execution, has exceeded the law, to have it corrected by
calling the attention of the court to such excess. We do not
perceive any departure from principle or any denial of the
petitioner's right in adopting such a course. He complains of
the unlawfulness of his place of imprisonment. He is only
entitled to relief from that unlawful feature, and that he
would obtain if opportunity be given to that court for correction in that particular. It is true where there are also errors
on the trial of the case. affecting the judgment, not trenching
upon its jurisdiction, the mere remanding the prisoner to the
original court that imposed the sentence, to correct the judgment in those particulars for which the writ is issued, would
not answer, for his relief would only come upon a new trial;
and his remedy for such errors must be sought by appeal or
writ of error. But in a vast majority of cases the extent and
mode and place of punishment may be corrected by the original court without a new trial, and the party punished as he
should be whilst relieved from any excess committed by the
court of which he complains. In such case the original court
would only set aside what it had no authority to do and substitute directions required by the law to be done upon the
conviction of the offender.
* Some of the state courts have expressed themselves strongly
in favor of the adoption of this course, where the defects
complained of consist only in the judgment, - in its extent or
mode, or place of punishment, -the conviction being in all
respects regular. In Beale v. Commonwealth, 25 Penn. St. 11,
22, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania said: "The common
law embodies in itself sufficient reason and common sense to
reject the monstrous doctrine that a prisoner, whose guilt is
established, by a regular verdict, is to escape punishment
altogether, because the court committed an error in passing
the sentence. If this court sanctioned such a rule, it would fail
to perform the chief duty for which it was established."

IN RE BONER, Petitioner.

261

Opinion of the Court.
It is true that this language was used in a case pending in
the Supreme Court of a State oti writ of error, but if then the
court would send the case back to have the error, not touching
the verdict, corrected and justice enforced, there is the same
reason why such correction should be made when the prisoner
is discharged on habeas corpus for alleged defects of jurisdiction in the rendition of the judgment under which he is held.
The end sought by him- to be relieved from the defects in
the judgment rendered to his injury -is secured, and at the
same time the community is not made to suffer by a failure in
the enforcement of justice against him.
The court is invested with the largest power to control and
direct the form of judgment to be entered in cases brought up
before it on habeascorpus. Section 761 of the Revised Statutes
on this subject provides that: "The court, or justice, or judge
shall proceed in a summary way to determine the facts of the
case by hearing the testimony and arguments, and thereupon
to dispose of the party as law and justice require." It would
seem that in the interest of justice and to prevent its defeat,
this court might well delay the discharge of the petitioner for
such reasonable time as may be necessary to have him taken
before the court where the judgment was rendered, that the
defects for want of jurisdiction which are the subject of complaint in that judgment may be corrected. .Medley, Petitioner,
134 U. S. 160, 174.
In the case of Coleman v. Tennessee, 97 U. S. 509, a party,
who had been convicted of a capital offence, and the judgment
had been confirmed by the Supreme Court of that State, was
discharged by judgment of this court because it was held that
the state court had no jurisdiction to try a soldier of the army
of the United States for a military offence committed by him
whilst in the military service and subject to the articles of
war. But as it appeared that the prisoner had been tried by
a court-martial regularly convened in the army for the same
offence and sentenced to be shot, and had afterwards escaped,
this court, in reversing the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Tennessee, stated that that court could turn the prisoner over to
the military authorities of the United States. He was so turned

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

over, and the punishment was commuted to life imprisonment,
and he was sent to Fort Leavenworth to serve it out.
In some cases, it is true, that no correction can be made
of the judgment, as where the court had under the law no
jurisdiction of the case-that is, no right to take cognizance
of the offence alleged, and the prisoner must then be entirely
discharged; but those cases will be rare, and much of the
complaint that is made for discharging on habeas corpus
persons who have been duly convicted will be thus removed.
Ordered, that the writ of habeas co~pus issue, and that the
.petitioner be discharged from the custody of the warden
of the penitentiary at Anamosa in the State of Iowa;
but without prejudice to the right of the United States to
take any lawful measures to have the petitioner sentenced
in accordance with law upon the verdict against him.

DAVIS v. UTAH TERRITORY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 961. Submitted November 15, 1893. -Decided

January 8,1894.

In Utah it is not necessary that an indictment for murder should charge
that the killing was unlawful.
An indictment which clearly and distinctly alleges facts showing a murder
by the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought is
good as an indictment for murder under the Utah statutes, although
it may not indicate upon its face, in terms, the degree of that crime, and,
thereby, the nature of the punishment which may be inflicted.
The indictment in this case sufficiently charged the crime of murder.
After the verdict of the jury that the defendant was guilty of murder in
the first degree, the court, the defendant being present, announced that
he had been convicted of murder in the first degree without any
recommendation, and, as he elected to be shot, therefore it was ordered,
adjudged, and decreed that he be taken, etc., and shot until he was dead.
Held that this was a full compliance with the requirements of the statutes of Utah.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

