UNITED STATES v. THOMAS.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. THOMAS.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION IN OPINION FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 668. Argued October 20, 1893.-Decided February 5,1894.
Under the act of March 3, 1885, c. 341, 23 Stat. 362, the Federal court in
Wisconsin has jurisdiction to try an Indian charged with murdering
another Indian within the limits of section 16 in a township in that State
which is embraced within and forms part of the La Court Oreilles reservation for the Chippewa Indians.
A Chippewa Indian being indicted in the District Court of the United
States for the Western District of Wisconsin for the murder of another
Indian on the Chippewa reservation, it appeared at the trial that the
offence took place in township 16, one of the townships set apart for the
State as a school reservation. The defendant being found guilty, a
motion was made for a new trial. This motion was heard before the
District Judge and the Circuit Judge. They differed in opinion on the
question of jurisdiction and certified the question here. With it they
sent up a transcript of the whole record. Held,
(1) That it was irregular to send the entire record with a certificate of
division in opinion, and that, generally, there could be no such certificate on a motion for a new trial; but that under the circumstances, this court would consider the question certified;
(2) That the trial court had jurisdiction, and the motion to set aside the
verdict. and grant a new trial must be denied.

THIS case came before the court on a certificate of division
in opinion between the Judges of the Circuit Court for the
Western District of Wisconsin, on the question of its jurisdiction to try the defendant upon the indictment against him.
The defendant, an Indian of the Chippewa tribe, was indicted
in that court for the murder of one David Corbin, a half breed,
of the same tribe, within the limits of La Court Oreilles Indian
reservation, in Wisconsin, and was convicted. The evidence
tended to show that the offence was committed in section sixteen in a township in Sawyer County of that State, embraced
within the reservation; and on that ground the counsel for
the defendant moved to set aside the verdict, and for a new
VOL. cLT-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

trial, contending that by the provisions of the enabling act by
which Wisconsin was admitted into the Union, section sixteen
in every township in Wisconsin was ceded to the State for
school purposes, and could not, therefore, be subsequently
taken by the United States and set off as part of an Indian
reservation.
La Court Oreilles reservation, in the State of Wisconsin,
was set apart for the Chippewa tribe of Indians, and embraces
three townships in area, but by reason of the extension of
several meandered lakes, covers about seven townships. The
reservation was approved by the treaty of 1854. The survey
of the lands of this portion of the State had not then been
made, and the townships which compose the reservation were
not surveyed until the year 1855, and the lands were not
selected until 1859. The State sold, in 1865, section sixteen
to parties who cut off the timber, but otherwise made no use
of the land except for the erection of a cabin whilst removing
the timber. The land had been used by the Indians continuously from time immemorial previous to its reservation, and
after it was denuded of timber they continued to hunt and
travel over it.
Section 9 of the act of Congress of March 3, 1885, c. 341, 23
Stat. 362, 385, making appropriations for the Indian Department for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1886, provides: "That
immediately upon and after the date of the passage of this
act all Indians committing against the person or property of
another Indian or other person any of the following crimes,
namely, murder, manslaughter, rape, assault with intent to
kill, arson, burglary, and larceny within any Territory of the
United States, and either within or without any Indian reservation, shall be subject therefor to the laws of such Territory
relating to said crimes, and shall be tried therefor in the same
courts and in the same manner, and shall be subject to the
same penalties, as are all other persons charged with the commission of said crimes, respectively; and the said courts are
hereby given jurisdiction in all such cases; and all such Indians
committing any of the above crimes against the person or
property of another Indian or other person within the bounda-

UNITED STATES v. THOMAS.
Statement of the Case.

Pies of any State of the United States, and within the limits of
any Indiam reservation, shall be subject to the same laws,
tried in the same courts and in the same manner, and subject
to the same penalties, as are all other persons committing any
of the above crimes within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States."
The motion to set aside the verdict and for a new trial was
argued before the Circuit Judge and the District Judge, composing the court, and they differed in opinion. The Circuit
Judge held that the title to the township upon which the
offence was committed was in the State of Wisconsin from
the time of its admission into the Union, and consequently
could not afterwards be used by the United States as a part of
an Indian reservation. He was therefore of opinion that the
court had no jurisdiction over an offence committed in that
township, under the act of Congress upon which it assumes
to take jurisdiction of this case. The District Judge, on the
contrary, held that the right of occupancy of the Chippewa
Indians to the land composing the reservation had never been
divested, and that until so divested the title to section sixteen
could not vest in the State of Wisconsin under its enabling
act; and, further, that, independent of any question of title, it
was competent for the United States, having set apart certain
lands within the State to be used as an Indian reservation, to
provide for the protection of the Indians thereon and for the
punishment of offences committed against them, and therefore
he was against granting the motion.
The certificate sent to us is as follows: "The motion of the
defendant to set aside the verdict and for a new trial, etc., came
on to be argued, and was argued by the counsel for the respective parties, and upon the hearing it occurred as a question,
'Whether, as the evidence shows that the murder was committed upon section sixteen, in township forty north, of range
eight west, in the State of Wisconsin, said section sixteen
being within the outside limits of the said Indian reservation,
and having been previously, in 1859, settled, platted, and set
apart by the United States as a part and parcel of said reservation and ever after occupied by said Indians as such, though

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

claimed and sold by the State of Wisconsin as and for a part
of the school land previously ceded to said State by act of
Congress, such murder was committed within the limits of
said reservation within the meaning of section 9 of chapter
341 of the act of Congress, approved March 3, 1885, so as to
give the Federal courts jurisdiction of the offence.' On which
question the opinions of the judges were opposed, which said
opinions are herewith transmitted." And the court added:
"The court considering, as the whole case now turns upon the
question of jurisdiction in this court and no proceedings can be
had until that question is determined, and that the same question would arise in any subsequent trial, that it is not one
addressed to the discretion of the court but is proper to be
certified to the Supreme Court for its opinion; whereupon, on
motion of the United States, by their attorneys and counsel, it
is ordered that the point upon which the disagreement hath
happened as herein stated under the direction of the judges,
including the entire record of proceedings in court, the evidence on the trial, and statement of facts as stipulated by the
attorneys herein, also copy of the said indictment, be, and the
same hereby are, made a part of the transcript certified under
the seal of this court, according to the request of the United
States by their counsel, to the Supreme Court, that the matter
may be finally decided."
.Mr. Solicitor General for the United States.
No appearance for Thomas.
MP. JusTicE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The judges of the Circuit Court have sent up with the certificate of their division of opinion the entire record of the
proceedings in that court, including the evidence on the trial
and the agreed statement of facts by counsel. Such matters
outside of the certificate, not constituting part of the pleadings in the case or of the public statutes or treaties bearing
upon the point certified, cannot be considered by us in dispos-

UNITED STATES v. THOMAS.
Opinion of the Court.

ing of the question presented. The division of opinion arose
on the motion to set aside the verdict and for a new trial, the
judges differing as to the jurisdiction of the court under the
act of Congress upon the facts presented. Until this question
is disposed of there can be no further proceedings in the case;
and as it arises upon the statute as applied to the facts, this
court may very properly consider and answer it, although
irrelevant matter, which will not be regarded, is also embraced
in the certificate.
It is the general doctrine that there can be no certificate of
a division of opinion between the judges of the Circuit Court
on a motion for a new trial, as such motion usually rests in
the discretion of the court, and, therefore, properly presents no
questions for our determination. United States v. Rosenburgh,
7 Wall. 580. But such is not always the case. Sometimes a
motion of the kind or of a similar kind may present for consideration a question going directly to the merits and a decision of which may determine the point in controversy. In
such instances the court will consider the question submitted
on a certificate of division of opinion between the judges of
the court below. Thus in United States v. MTilom, 7 Pet. 150,
160, the question arose between the judges of the Circuit
Court whether a person convicted of a capital offence, who
had received a pardon, could derive any advantage from it
without bringing the same judicially before the court by
appeal, motion, or otherwise. Upon this question the judges
were opp6sed in opinion, and it was stated under their direction, and certified to this court and here considered and
decided. The court regarded the motion as one going to the
merits of his case, having a direct bearing upon the punishment to be imposed, and not a question determinable in the
discretion of the court, and held that it could properly consider the question upon a certificate of division in opinion of
the judges of the Circuit Court.
Holding, therefore, that we can consider the question certified, disregarding the irrelevant matter accompanying the
certificate, we proceed to its examination.
The treaty concluded October 4, 1842, and proclaimed in

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

March, 1843, 7 Stat. 591, between the United States and the
Chippewa Indians, ceded to the United States a large tract of
land between Lake Superior and the Mississippi. In article 5
it recited that the whole country between those points had
always been understood as belonging, in common, to the
Chippewas. In article 2 it declared that the Indians stipulated for the right of hunting on the ceded territory, with the
other usual privileges of occupancy, until required to remove
by the President of the United States; and that the laws of
the United States should be continued in force, in respect to
their trade and intercourse with the whites, until ordered by
Congress otherwise. And in article 7 it declared that the
treaty should be obligatory upon the contracting parties
when ratified by the President and Senate of the United
States.
The Indians have never been removed from the lands thus
ceded, and no executive order has ever been made for their
removal, and no change has taken place in their occupancy of
the lands, except as provided by the treaty of September 30,
1854, 10 Stat. 1109. By that treaty the Chippewas ceded
a large portion of their territory, previously retained in Wisconsin and elsewhere, and provision was made in consideration
thereof for the formation of permanent reservations for their
benefit, each to embrace three full townships, and their boundaries to be established under the direction of the President.
One of these included the tract comprised in the La Court
Oreilles reservation. In the provision for these reservations
nothing was said of the sixteenth section of any townships,
and it is clear that it was not contemplated that any section
should be left out of any one of them. The land reserved was
to be, as near as possible, in a compact form, except so far as
the meandered lakes were concerned. When the townships
composing these reservations were surveyed, the sixteenth
section was already disposed of in the sense of the enabling
act of 1846. It had been included within the limits of the
reservations.
As it will be seen, by the treaty of 1842 ratified in 1843,
which was previous to the enabling act, the Indians stipulated

UNITED STATES v. THOMAS.
Opinion of the Court.

for the right of occupancy to the lands. That right of occupancy gave them the enjoyment of the land until they were
required to surrender it by the President of the United States,
which requirement was never made. Whatever right the
State of Wisconsin acquired by the enabling act to the sixteenth section was subordinate to this right of occupancy for
which the Indians stipulated and which the United States
recognized. The general rule established by the Land Department in reference to the school lands in the different States is
that the title to them vests in the several States in which the
land is situated, subject to any prior right of occupation by
the Indians or others which the government had stipulated to
recognize.
Mr. Justice Lamar, while Secretary of the Interior, had
frequent occasion to consider the nature and effect of the grant
of school lands, where the title was at all encumbered or doubtful; and on this subject he said (6 L. Dec. 418) that the true
theory was this: "That where the fee is in the United States
at the date of survey, and the land is so encumbered that full
and complete title and right of possession cannot then vest in
the State, the State may, if it so desires, elect to take equivalent lands in fulfilment of the compact, or it may wait until
the right and title of possession unite in the government, and
then satisfy its grant by taking the lands specifically granted."
And this view he considered "as fully sustained by the decision of the courts and the opinions of the Attorneys General,"
and cited in support of it Cooper v. Roberts, 18 How. 173; 3
Opins. 56; 8 Opins. 255; 9 Opins. 346; 16 Opins. 430; Ham
v. .Missouri, 18 How. 126.
In Beecher v. Wetherby, 95 U. S. 517, 525, this court had
occasion to consider the nature of the right which Wisconsin
took to the sixteenth section in the townships of that State
by virtue of her enabling act, which declared that it was an
unalterable condition of her admission into the Union that
section sixteen of every township of the public lands of the
State which had not been sold or otherwise disposed of, should
be granted to her for the use of schools. The court said that
this compact, whether considered as merely promissory on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

part of the United States, and constituting only a pledge of
a grant in future, or as operating as a transfer of the title to
the State, upon her acceptance of the proposition, as soon as
the sections could be afterwards identified by the public surveys-in either case the lands which might be embraced
within those sections were appropriated to the State, subject
to any existing claim or right to them; that for many years
beford Wisconsin became a State various portions of the territory within her limits were occupied by a tribe of Indians,
but the right which they had was only that of occupancy.
The court held that the fee was in the United States, subject
to that right, and could be transferred whenever they chose,
but added, "the grantee would take only the naked fee, and
could not disturb' the occupancy of the Indians; that occupancy could only be interfered with or determined by the
United States."
We, therefore, are of opinion that by virtue of the treaty
of 1842, in the absence of any proof that the Chippewa
Indians have surrendered their right of occupancy, the right
still remains with them, and that the title and right which
the State may claim ultimately to the sixteenth section of
every township for the use of schools is subordinate to this
right of occupancy of the Indians, which has, so far as the
court is informed, never been released to any of their lands,
except as it may be inferred from the provisions of the treaty
of 1854. That treaty provided for permanent reservations,
which included the section in question. The treaty did not
operate to defeat the prior right of occupancy to that particular section, but, by including it in the new reservations,
made as a condition of the cession of large tracts of land in
Wisconsin, continued it in force. The State of Wisconsin,
therefore, had no such control over that section or right to it
as would prevent its being set apart by the United States, with
the consent of the Indians, as a part of their permanent reservation. So, by authority of their original right of occupancy,
as well as by the fact that the section is included within the
tract set aside as a portion of the permanent reservation in
consideration of the cession of lands, the title never vested in

UNITED STATES v. THOMAS.
Opinion of the Court.

the State, except as subordinate to that right of occupation of
the Indians.
But, independently of any question of title, we think the
court below had jurisdiction of the case. The Indians of the
country are considered as the wards of the nation, and whenever the United States set apart any land of their own as
an Indian reservation, whether within a State or Territory,
they have full authority to pass such laws and authorize such
measures as may be necessary to give to these people full
protection in their persons and property, and to punish all
offences committed against them or by them within *such
reservations.
This subject was fully considered by this court in United
States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375. It was contended that the
act of Congress extending its protection and jurisdiction over
the Indians within the limits of the State encroached upon
matters within the exclusive jurisdiction of the State. But
the court answered this objection, speaking through Justice
Miller, by observing that the act "does not interfere with the
process of the state courts within 'the reservation, nor with
the operation of state laws upon white people found there.
Its effect is confined to the acts of an Indian of some tribe,
of a criminal character, committed within the limits of the
reservation.
"It seems to us that this is within the competency of Congress. These Indian tribes are the wards of the nation. They
are communities dependent on the United States. Dependent
largely for their daily food. Dependent for their political
rights. They own no allegiance to the States and receive
from them no protection. Because of the local ill-feeling, the
people of the State where they are found are often their deadliest enemies. From their very weakness and helplessness, so
largely due to the course of dealing of the Federal government
with them and the treaties in which it has been promised,
there arises the duty of protection, and with it the power.
This has always been recognized by the executive and by
Congress, and by this court whenever the question has
arisen.

.

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

"The power of the general government over these remnants
of a race once powerful, now weak and diminished in numbers,
is necessary to their protection as well as to the safety of those
among whom they dwell. It must exist in that government,
because it never has existed anywhere else, because the theatre
of exercise is within the geographichl limits of the United
States, because it has never been denied, and because it alone
can enforce its laws on all the tribes."
We, therefore, answer the question certified, in the affirmative, that the offence committed was within the limits of the
reservation within the meaning of the act of Congress approved
March 3, 1885, so as to give the Federal courts jurisdiction of
the same, and our answer to that purport will be returned to
the court below; and that
* The motion to set aside the verdict andfor a new trial should
be denied.

MAXWELL LAND GRANT COMPANY v. DAWSON.
ERROR

TO THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE TERRITORY

OF

NEW

MEXICO.
No. 1065. Submitted January 5,1894. -Decideq

February 5, 1894.

It is unnecessary to decide whether under the civil law, as in force in New
Mexico in 1868, a written instrument was not necessary for the transfer of
real estate, (about which quwre,) as, if such a provision had previously
existed, it had been supplanted at that time by territorial enactments.
Under the most liberal construction of the civil law, a transfer of title to
real estate could not be effected without identification of the land, delimitation of the boundaries, and delivery of possession, all of which
were wanting in this case.
Certain loose parol statements and certain hearsay evidence are held to be
inadmissible in this action of ejectment, either to fix the boundaries of
the defendant's deed, or to show the character and extent of his alleged
adverse possession.
When the defendant in an action of ejectment sets up title under adverse
possession, it is competent for him to show that it was generally known
in the neighborhood that he was in possession of the disputed premises,
and was generally regarded as their owner.
When the description in the deed through which a plaintiff in ejectment

