OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

that we consider to be established by the proofs in the present
case. The difference of opinion between this court and the
Circuit Court arises chiefly from the conclusions of fact to be
drawn from the testimony.
In our judgment, the court should have dismissed the crossbill and given to Mrs Graeffe the relief asked by the bill.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded for further

proceedings, in conformity with this oyinion.
MR. JUSTIoE BRoWN was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision of the case.

LINCOLN 'v. POWER.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 505. Submitted November 28, 1893.-

Decided January 29, 1894.

This court cannot take notice of an assignment of error that the damages
found by the jury were excessive and given under the influence of passion
and prejudice.
An error in that respect is to be redressed by a motion for a new trial.
The evidence in this case was conflicting and would not have warranted the
court in directing a verdict for the defendant.
It is not reversible error to permit a plaintiff, suing a municipality to recover
for injuries received by reason of defects in its streets, to prove a bill or
statement of the claim which had been served on the city council before
commencement of the action.
The plaintiff in such an action may put in evidence sections of the municipal
code.
The question whether the plaintiff was walking upon one part of the sidewalk rather than another was properly left to the jury.
In such an action it would be error to instruct the jury that "where a dangerous hole is left in a sidewalk in a public street of a city, over which
there is a large amount of travel, the author will be liable for an injury
resulting from the act, although other causes subsequently arising may
contribute to the injury."
An assignment of error cannot be sustained because the judge expresses
himself as impressed in favor of the one party or the other, if the law is

LINCOLN v. POWER.
Opijion of the Court.
correctly laid down, and if the jury are left free to consider the evidence
for themselves.
Judges of Federal courts are not controlled in their manner of charging
juries by State regulations, such part of their judicial action not being
within the meaning of section 914 of the Revised Statutes.

THis was an action brought, at January Term, 1891, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska,
by Margaret J. Power, a citizen of the State of Iowa, against
the city of Lincoln, a municipal corporation of the State of
Nebraska, for personal injuries which the plaintiff incurred
while passing along a street of said city, and which she alleged
had been occasioned by the carelessness and negligence of the
municipal authorities in permitting a hole or broken grating
to remain in a sidewalk after having been notified of its
existence.
The cause was tried before the District Judge, sitting as
circuit judge, and a jury, and resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiff for the sum of fifty-seven hundred
dollars. The defendant, alleging error in the action of the
court below in admitting certain matters in evidence offered
in behalf of the plaintiff, and in rejecting others offered in
behalf of the defendant, and in certain instructions to the jury,
brought a writ of error to this court.
.Mr. -Lionel C. Bumv- for plaintiff in error.
M. '.

X.M. arquett for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE SHIRAs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error complains that the damages found by
the jury were excessive, and appear to have been given under
the influence of passion and prejudice.
But it is not permitted for this court, sitting as a court of
errors, in a case wherein damages have been fixed by the
verdict of a jury, to take notice of an assignment of this
character, where the complaint is only of the action of the
jury.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the qourt.

Thus it was said in Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Pet. 433, 447,
448, per Story, J., commenting on that clause of the Seventh
Amendment which declares "no fact tried by a jury shall be
otherwise regxaminable, in any court of the United States,
than according to the rules of the common law," that "this is
a prohibition to the courts of the United States to reexamine
any facts tried by a jury in any other manner. The only
modes known to the common law to reexamine such facts are
the granting of a new trial by the court where the issue was
tried, or to which the record was properly returnable; or the
award of a venire facias de novo by an appellate court, for
some error of law which intervened in the proceedings."
In Railroad Company v. Fralo, 100 U. S. 24, 31, this court
said: " N o error of law appearing upon the record, this court
cannot reverse the judgment, because, upon examination of
the evidence, we may be of the opinion that the jury should
have returned a verdict for a less amount. If the jury acted
upon a gross mistake of facts, or were governed by some
improper influence or bias, the remedy therefor rested with
the court below, under its general power to set aside the verdict.
But that court, finding that the verdict was abundantly sustained by the evidence, and that there was no ground to
suppose that the jury had not performed their duty impartially
and justly, refused to disturb the verdict, and overruled a
motion for a new trial. Whether its action, in that particular,
was erroneous or not, our power is restricted by the Constitution to the determination of the questions of law arising upon
the record. Our authority does not extend to a reexamination
of facts which have been tried by the jury under instructions
correctly defining the legal rights of the parties."
But where there is no reason to complain of the instructions,
an error of the jury in allowing an unreasonable amount is to
be redressed by a motion for a new trial.
In the present case such a motion was ifieffectually made,
the court below evidently regarding the verdict as justified by
the evidence. And, apart from the question of our power to
consider the subject, we find nothing presented in this record
that seems to show that the jury, in the particular complained

LINCOLN v. POWER.
Opinion of the Court.

of, acted against the rules of law, or suffered their prejudices
to lead them to a perverse disregard of justice.
Error is assigned to the refusal of the court to charge the
jury that, under all ihe evidence and the law in the case, the
defendant was entitled to the verdict.
Our examination of the evidence does not enable us to see
error in the refusal of the court to so charge. The issues before the jury were very plain. Were the injuries of the plaintiff caused by her falling into a hole in the sidewalk? Was
the existence of this hole or imperfection in the sidewalk
known to the defendant in circumstances and for such a length
of time as to have made it the duty of the defendant, as a municipal corporation having control over its streets, to repair
the defect, or be responsible for a failure to do so? Was the
plaintiff herself guilty of negligence in overlooking the hole
in the walk, or in walking upon a portion of the walk where
she had no right to go?
The evidence adduced by the plaintiff certainly tended to
establish her side of the issue in all these questions, and if not
successfully contradicted by the defendant's evidence, warranted the jury in finding a verdict in her favor. The defendant's evidence, though contradictory, in some particulars, of
that put in by the plaintiff, did not make out a case so clear
and indisputable as would have justified the court in giving
the peremptory instruction requested.
If, then, no errors were committed by the court below in the
admission or exclusion of evidence, or in its charge to the jury,
the verdict and judgment must be permitted to stand. Such
errors are, however, assigned, and will now receive our attention.
The court permitted the plaintiff to put in evidence a bill or
statement of her claim against the city, which she had served
on the city council, and to this the defendant excepted.
It is not easy to see what purpose was served by this evidence. The judge stated, in the charge to the jury, that such
a notice is required by the law before an action is comm~enced,
and as this assignment is not pressed in the plaintiff-in-error's
brief we do not feel constrained to give it much importance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

To permit the plaintiff to show that she made such a claim, or
gave such a notice, whether required so to do by the law or
not, would not seem to be reversible error.
We see no error in permitting the plaintiff to put in evidence
certain sections of the municipal code. It thus appeared that
the mayor and city council had the care, supervision, and control of all public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public
squares, and commons within the city, and were to cause the
same to be kept open and in repair, and free from nuisances.
An inspector of sidewalks and street crossings was therein provided for, whose duty it was to see that the sidewalks and street
crossings were kept in good repair. It is likewise made the
duty of all policemen to take note of all defects in sidewalks,
and to give notice of want of repair. One of the sections also
contains provisions regulating the construction of cellar ways
and entrances to the basement in or through any sidewalk.
Why this evidence was not pertinent we are not told.
These provisions of the municipal code only express and
provide for what was the plain duty of the city.
Complaint is made of the first instruction given to the jury
in that it is said that it made the city the insurer of the absolute safety of its sidewalks, and liable in damages for injuries
caused by any defect therein, regardless of the question of
negligence. This instruction is, perhaps, liable to the criticism
made, and, if it stood alone, it might be fairly claimed that
the jury were misled by it; but the court immediately added
a further instruction, in which the jury were told to inquire
whether the city officers were notified of the dangerous condition of the sidewalk, occasioned by the hole or excavation
therein, before this accident happened, and whether the city,
through its officers, neglected to repair the defect, or cover or
protect the hole after it knew of its unsafe condition; and
the right of the plaintiff to recover was made dependent on
the jury finding the defendant negligent in those particulars. Read together, as the jury must have understood them,
we think the instructions contained a fair exposition of the
law.
It is further contended that the court erred in refusing to

IN2COLN v. POWER.
Opinion of the Court.

give instructions prayed for by the defendant, and numbered
seven, nine, and twelve.
Instructions seven and nine impute negligence to the plaintiff in walking on the sidewalk too near to the building line,
and on what is termed the area space. The court left it to
the jury to find whether the plaintiff was negligent in walking
on that part of the walk, and instructed them that if they
found that the plaintiff was not negligent, and if the defendant
knew of the defect, and permitted it to remain so that the
plaintiff was injured, the latter was entitled to recover.
Whether the plaintiff was guilty of negligence in walking
upon one part of the sidewalk rather than upon another, was
certainly not a question of law, and was properly left to the
jury.
By the twelfth prayer the court was requested to instruct
the jury that where a dangerous hole is left in a sidewalk in
a public street of a city, over which there is a large amount
of travel, the author will be liable for an injury resulting
from the act, although other causes subsequently arising may
contribute to the injury.
Such an instruction might be proper enough in air action
against the person who committed the wrongful act; but the
court was right in refusing it, in the present action, as irrelevant. If it was intended to mean that, because there was a
liability to the plaintiff on the part of the actual wrongdoer,
the city might not also be liable, it would have been plain
error in the court to have given the instruction.
Error is assigned to the action of the court in referring to
the Carlisle Tables as enabling the jury to find the plaintiff's
prospect of life, and the force of the objection is in the allegation that those tables had not been introduced in evidence.
There is high authority for the proposition that courts can
take judicial notice of the Carlisle Tables, and can use them
in estimating the probable length of life, whether they were
introduced in evidence or not. Mceenry v. Yokum, 27 Illinois, 160; Jackson v. Edwards, 7 Paige, 387; Estabrooko v.
Hzapgood, 10 Mass. 313.
But it is not necessary for us, at this time, to consider

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

whether those tables are the subject of judicial notice, because
the record fails to show any exception taken at the time, and
we have a right to presume that the tables were in evidence,
and that the court acted regularly in referring them to the
jury as a mode of enabling them to estimate the prospect of
duration of the plaintiff's life.
The plaintiff in error complains of the tone of the oral
charge of the court to the jury as hostile, and calculated to
unduly inflame the minds of the jury.
It must be admitted that some of the expressions used by
the learned judge were scarcely decorous, and showed a bias
in favor of the plaintiff. But, as has often been said, an
assignment of error cannot be sustained because the judge
expresses himself as impressed in favor of the one party or the
other, if the law is correctly laid down, and if the jury are
left free to consider the evidence for themselves. Vieksburg
& .Xeridian Railroadv. Putnam, 118 U. S. 545; Simmons v.
United States, 142 U. S. 148.
The statutes of Nebraska require that all instructions of the
court to the jury shall be in writing, unless the so giving of
the same is waived by counsel in the case in open court, and
so entered in the record of said case, and it is argued that, by
virtue of section 914 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, such provisions of the Nebraska laws is made obligatory
on the Circuit Court of the United States for that district, and
that hence it was reversible error in the court below to give
oral instructions.
But we are of opinion that the judges of the Federal courts
are not controlled in their manner of charging juries by the
state regulations. Such part of their judicial action is not
within the meaning of section 914.
Thus in JYudd v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 426, where a state
statute required a judge to instruct a jury only as to the law
of a case, and provided that the written instructions of the
court should be taken by the jury in their retirement and
returned with the verdict, and where the Circuit Court judge
charged the jury upon the facts, and refused to permit them
to take to their room the written instructions given by the

CHA

MAN v. -HANWDLEY.
Syllabus.

court, it was held that this was not error, because the personal
conduct and administration of the judge in the discharge of
his separate functions were not practice or pleading, or a form
or method of proceeding, within the meaning of those terms
in the act of Congress. A similar ruling was made in Indianapolis & St. Louis Railroad v. Horst, 93 U. S. 291. There a
state statute prescribed that the judge should require the jury to
answer special interrogatories in addition to finding a general
verdict. This court held that such a state regulation did not
apply to the courts of the United States. The doctrine of
these cases was approved and applied in Chateaugay Iron Co.,
Petitioner,128 U. S. 541, where it was held that the practice
and rules of the state court do not apply to proceedings taken
in a Circuit Court of the United States for the purpose of
reviewing in this court a judgment of such Circuit Court, and
that such rules and practice, regulhting the preparation, settling, and signing of a bill of exceptions, are not within "the
practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding"
which are required by section 914 of the Revised Statutes to
conform "as near as may be" to those "existing at the time
in like causes in the courts of record of the State."
Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the court below
committed no error, and its judgment is, accordingly,
Afflrmed.

CPIAPMAN v. IIANDLEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 206. Submitted January 17, 1894.-Decided January 29, 1894.

Under the statutes of the Territory of Utah relating to the distribution of
the personal property of a deceased person among those entitled to share
in the distribution, the claims of the distributees are several, and not
joint; and when the claims of each are less than the amount necessary
to give this court jurisdiction, two or more cannot be joined, in order to
raise the sum in dispute to the jurisdictional amount.

