OCTOBER TERM, 1988
Per Curiam

488 U. S.

McNAMARA v. COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEAL OF CALIFORNIA,
FOURTH APPELLATE DISTRICT
No. 87-5840. Argued November 28, 1988-Decided December 6, 1988
Appeal dismissed.

James E.
With him on
Lloyd M.
With him on
N. Katz.*

Sutherland argued the cause for appellant.
the briefs was R. Stephen McNally.
Harmon, Jr., argued the cause for appellee.
the brief were Jerome A. Barron and Sanford

PER CURIAM.

The appeal is dismissed for want of a properly presented
federal question.

*Isabelle Katz Pinzler, Steven R. Shapiro, and John A. Powell filed a
brief for the American Civil Liberties Union et al. as amici curiae urging
reversal.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Barker Foundation by Erwin N. Griswold, Robert C. Gombar, and Glen D. Nager; for
the Child by ChristianR. Van Deusen and Ted R. Youmans; and for the
National Committee for Adoption by Merrill F. Nelson, C. Harold Brown,
and William M. Schur.

BEECH AIRCRAFT CORP. v. RAINEY
Syllabus

BEECH AIRCRAFT CORPORATION v. RAINEY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 87-981.

Argued October 4, 1988-Decided December 12, 1988*

Respondents' spouses, a Navy flight instructor and her student, were
killed when, during training exercises, their Navy aircraft banked
sharply to avoid another plane, lost altitude, and crashed. At the trial
of respondents' product liability suit against petitioners, the companies
which manufactured and serviced the plane in question, the only seriously disputed issue was whether the crash was caused by pilot error or
equipment malfunction. Having previously determined that a Navy investigative report of the incident (the JAG Report or Report) was sufficiently trustworthy to be admissible, the District Court admitted, over
respondents' objections, most of the Report's "opinions," including a
statement suggesting that pilot error was the most probable cause of the
accident. Moreover, after respondent Rainey, who was himself a Navy
flight instructor, admitted on direct examination as an adverse witness
that he had made certain statements arguably supporting a pilot error
theory in a detailed letter in which he took issue with some of the JAG
Report's findings, his counsel attempted to ask him on cross-examination
whether the letter did not also say that the most probable primary cause
of the mishap was a loss of power due to equipment malfunction. However, before Rainey could answer, the court sustained a defense objection on the ground that the question asked for Rainey's opinion, and cut
off further questioning along this line. After the jury returned a verdict
for petitioners, the Court of Appeals reversed and remanded for a new
trial. The court held itself bound by Smith v. Ithaca Corp., 612 F. 2d
215 (CA5), such that Federal Rule of Evidence 803(8)(C)-which excepts
from the hearsay rule "public records and reports" setting forth "factual findings resulting from an investigation made pursuant to authority granted by law, unless the sources of information or other circumstances indicate lack of trustworthiness"-did not encompass the JAG
Report's evaluative conclusions or opinions. The court also held that
Federal Rule of Evidence 106 forbade the trial court to prohibit crossexamination about additional portions of Rainey's letter which would
*Together with No. 87-1028, Beech Aerospace Services, Inc. v. Rainey
et al., also on certiorari to the same court.

