U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
104.

Opinion of the Court.

17, 1917, was null and void by the terms of ยง 5 of the Act
of 1887.
As the President's order was made within the original
25-year period, it is unnecessary to consider whether he
might have acted with like effect at a later time.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and
that of the District Court is affirmed.

UNITED STATES FIDELITY & GUARANTY COMPANY v. STATE OF OKLAHOMA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 304.

Argued April 17, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

The court has no jurisdiction on error, under Jud. Code, ยง 237, as
amended, on the ground that a state law was sustained against a
claim that it impaired the obligation of a prior contract, where the
state court appears to have rested its judgment, reasonably, on
earlier laws and decisions, without any application of the law in
question.
Writ of error to review 168 Pac. Rep. 234, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. C. B. Ames for plaintiff in error.
Mr. H. L. Stuart, with whom Mr. S. P. Freeling, Attorney General of the State of Oklahoma, and Mr. W. A.
Ledbetter were on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
May 18, 1909, plaintiff in error became surety upon a
bond to secure repayment of, funds to be deposited by

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Commissioners of the Land Office of Oklahoma with the
Columbia Bank & Trust Co. After receiving more than
$50,000 the Trust Company became insolvent, and in
September, 1909, refused to honor a proper demand
therefor. The State sued the surety in one of its own
courts, December 24, 1909, and judgment there for full
amount of the bond was affirmed by the Supreme Court,
October 9, 1917. 168 Pac. Rep. 234.
The cause is here on writ of error and jurisdiction of this
court is challenged upon the ground that the suit is not
one "where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty
or statute of, or an authority exercised under the United
States, and the decision is against their validity; or where
is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under any State, on the ground of their
being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws
of the United States, and the decision is in favor of their
validity." Judicial Code, ยง 237, as amended by Act
approved September 6, 1916. We think the point well
taken and the writ must be dismissed.
In support of our jurisdiction it is said: "The case is
properly here by writ of error because it involves the
validity of legislation of the State of Oklahoma alleged by
the plaintiff in error to impair the obligation of its contract." But we have often held that mere assertion of a
claim in respect of some constitutional right is not sufficient; there must be a real and substantial controversy
of the required character which deserves serious consideration. Ennis Water Works v. City of Ennis, 233 U. S. 652,
658.
Counsel for plaintiff in error further say: "Our position is that under this bond and the statutes in force at
the time it was executed a contract was created between
the State, the Columbia Bank & Trust Company, and the
United States Fidelity & Guaranty Company, pursuant
to which the Guaranty Company was liable to the State

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
111.

Opinion of the Court.

for such loss as it might sustain by reason of the failure
of the Trust Company; that the Guaranty Company was
entitled to exoneration from the Trust Company and to
contribution from the guaranty fund; and that this contract was impaired by the Act of March 6, 1913." (ยง 9,
c. 22, Session Laws, 1913.) It provides, "No deposit in
a state bank, otherwise secured, shall be protected by,
or paid out of, the Depositors' Guaranty Fund created
under the laws of the State of Oklahoma, nor included in
the computation of average daily deposits as a basis for
assessments. No deposit in any state bank, on which a
greater rate of interest is allowed or paid, either directly
or indirectly, than is permitted by the rules of the Bank
Commissioner, shall participate in the benefits of the
Guaranty Fund."
The opinion of the Supreme Court makes no reference
to the Act of March 6, 1913, and we can discover no plausible basis for the argument that, notwithstanding such
omission, force and effect were really given thereto-that
it must have been the basis of the decision. The court
approved, and undertook to support its conclusion by
former opinions, commencing with Columbia Banc &
Trust Co. v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 33
Oklahoma, 535, decided in 1912, which, it declared, show
a consistent view contrary to the position maintained
by plaintiff in error. And an examination of these
opinions leaves no doubt that they are relevant and tend
to uphold the doctrine applied in the present cause. We
find nothing to indicate a purpose to give effect to the
specified act.
Dismissed.

