NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. McCOMAS.

387

Syllabus.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY ET
AL. v. McCOMAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OREGON.
No. 172.

Argued January 22, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.

Lands constituting parts of odd-numbered sections within the primary
limits of the land grant made to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company by the Act of July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, but which,
at the date when that company's line opposite them was definitely
located, were claimed by the State of Oregon under the Swamp Land
Acts, as evidenced by its selection list on file in the Land Department, were excepted by the Act of 1864 from the grant of place
lands, whether the claim of the State was valid or not. Pp. 389, 391.
Patents erroneously issued for such lands, as place lands, gave to the
railroad only the legal title, leaving the equitable title in the United
States. Id.
Undisputed possession, cultivation and improvement of public lands,
under a conveyance from a State based on an unapproved selection
of the lands as swamp lands, can convey no title. P. 391.
Where public lands are claimed by an individual under the Swamp
Land Act, and by a railroad under lieu selections, the courts cannot
anticipate adjudication by the Land Department, beyond protecting
or restoring a possession lawfully acquired. P. 392.
Whether public lands are such as to come within the Swamp Land
Act and whether they have been so occupied and appropriated as not
to be subject to lieu selection by a railroad, are questions for the decision of the Land Department. Id.
Approval of a lieu land selection is not a mere formal act, but involves
an exercise of sound discretion by the Secretary of the Interior.
P. 393.
The Secretary may reject such a selection and hold the title in the
United States for the protection of a bona fide occupant, who under
a misunderstanding of his rights has reclaimed and improved the
land at large cost. Id. Williams v. United States, 138 U. S. 514, 524.
Where land, occupied and claimed by an individual under the swamp
land law, was patented pending the suit to a railroad under a lieu

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

selection, held that the occupant could not avail of the statute of
limitations or attack the patent collaterally. P. 393.
Where a railroad reconveys lands erroneously patented as place
lands, and selects them as lieu lands, the fact that the land officers
entertain the selections and pass one of them to patent establishes
that the reconveyance was accepted by the United States. Id.
82 Oregon, 639, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles Donnelly, with whom Mr. Charles W. Bunn
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Harvey M. Friend for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTEn

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a suit to quiet title in the plaintiff to five small
tracts of land in Umatilla County, Oregon, the right to
such relief being predicated solely on adverse possession
under color of title for ten years, the period prescribed in a
local statute. The plaintiff obtained a judgment, which
at first was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State
and then on a petition for rehearing was modified as to
two of the tracts. 82 Oregon, 639. The case is here on
writ of certiorari.
There was substantial testimony tending to show that
McComas, the plaintiff, and his predecessors had been
in undisputed possession of the lands for ten years when
the suit was brought and that during that period they
had been cultivating the lands and claiming the same
under the deeds from the State hereinafter mentioned
and had put improvements thereon costing more than
ten thousand dollars. The other facts are set forth in a
stipulation found in the record.
The lands are all parts of odd-numbered sections within

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. McCOMAS.
387.

389

Opinion of the Court.

the primary or place limits of the land grant made to the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company by the Act of July 2,
1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365. At the date of that act they
were public lands of the United States and they continued
to be such at the time the line of road opposite which they
lie was definitely located, save as their status was affected
by a pending claim of the State under the swamp-land
grant made by the Acts of September 28, 1850, c. 84, 9
Stat. 519, and March 12, 1860, c. 5, 12 Stat. 3. This claim
was shown by a swamp-land selection list filed in the Land
Department November 23, 1872, and was still pending
in that department in 1892 and 1895. In those years the
State, without waiting for a determination of its claim by
the department, executed deeds for the lands to persons
who in turn executed deeds therefor to the plaintiff. As
to three of the tracts the swamp-land claim was examined
and rejected by the department some time before this
suit was begun, and as to the other two it was still pending
at that time.
The definite location of the line of road opposite which
the lands lie was effected by a map filed in the Land
Department and approved June 29, 1883. The grant
to the railroad company was of all the odd-numbered
sections of public land within designated limits on either
side of the line of road as so located, with an express exception of such lands as at the time of definite location
were reserved, sold, etc., or were not "free from preemption, or other claims or rights." There was also an express
exclusion of all mineral lands and a provision that "in
lieu thereof a like quantity of unoccupied and unappropriated agricultural lands, in odd numbered sections,
nearest to the line of said road may be selected" under
the direction of the Secretary of the Interior. By reason
of the pendency of the swamp-land claim at the time of
the definite location all the tracts in question were excepted from the grant of lands in place, and this whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

the claim was well grounded or otherwise; that is to say,
the fact that the claim was pending and undetermined
prevented the lands from passing under the grant as place
lands. Whitney v. Taylor, 158 U. S. 85, 92-94; Northern
Pacific R. R. Co. v. Sanders, 166 U. S. 620, 630; Northern
Pacific R. R. Co. v. Musser-Sauntry Co., 168 U. S. 604, 609.
But through some mistake in the Land Department three
of the tracts were erroneously patented to the railroad
company as place lands between 1906 and 1909. Without
doubt the patents passed the legal title, but the United
States was entitled to a reconveyance from the railroad
company and in equity remained the true owner. Germania Iron Co. v. United States, 165 U. S. 379. The two
tracts not patented as place lands were selected by the
railroad company in i908 and a succeeding year in lieu
of other lands in place excluded from the grant by reason
of being mineral. These selections were received by the
local land office and were awaiting action by the Secretary
of the Interior at the time of the trial.
This suit was brought September 25, 1912. Shortly
thereafter the railroad company, recognizing that the
patents theretofore issued to it for three of the tracts had
been erroneously issued, reconveyed the title to the
United States and subsequently selected those tracts in
lieu of other tracts in place excluded from the grant by
reason of being mineral. These selections were received
by the local land office; one was approved by the Secretary of the Interior and passed to patent, and the other
two were at the time of the trial pending before that
officer.
The plaintiff made no effort by pleading or evidence
to show that the swamp-land claim was well grounded
or that he, his predecessors or the State, had in any way
become entitled to receive the title from the United States.
With some hesitation the trial court concluded that
the lands were not excepted from the grant of lands in

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. McCOMAS.
387.

391

Opinion of the Court.

place by reason of the existence of the swamp-land claim
at the date of the definite location, and therefore that on
the definite location, by which the place limits were identified, the title passed to the railroad company, the grant
being one in prcesenti as respects place lands falling within
its terms and not within its excepting or excluding clauses,
and the provision for patents being intended only to give
further assurance. Deseret Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S.
241; Toltec Ranch Co. v. Cook, 191 U. S. 532. On that
theory a decree was entered quieting the title in the plaintiff as to all the tracts.
But the court should have held that the swamp-land
claim pending, as it was, at the date of the definite location prevented these lands from passing under the grant of
lands in place. The decisions of this court before cited
leave no room for doubt on this point. The cases of Iowa
RailroadLand Co. v. Blumer, 206 U. S. 482, and Missouri
Valley Land Co. v. Wiese, 208 U. S. 234, relied on by the
plaintiff, are not apposite. The lands there in question were
within the place limits and at the time of definite location
were free from other claims; so they were not excepted
from the grant, as here, but passed from the Government
on the definite location. It follows that as to the three
tracts erroneously patented as before shown the railroad
company had no title, legal or equitable, prior to the issue
of the patents. Up to that time the title Was in the United
States, and of course no prescriptive right was acquired
against it under the local statute. Besides, the title received through those patents was turned back to the
United States before the trial and this operated to restore
the three tracts to their prior status as public lands. The
title under those patents-and it was merely the naked
legal title-did not remain in the railroad company for
anything like the period named in the local statute, if that
be material. As to the other two tracts the railroad company up to the time the suit was brought had nothing

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

more than pending lieu land selections which required the
approval of the Secretary of the Interior to make them
effective, Wisconsin Central R. R. Co. v. Price County,
133 U. S. 496, 512, but as yet they had not received his
approval.
The situation then at the time the case was heard in the
trial court was this: The railroad company had neither
the legal nor the equitable title to four of the tracts. Instead, the full title was in the United States and all existing claims to them arising under the land grants and other
public land laws were pending in the Land Department,
whose officers were specially charged by law with their
examination and determination and with the disposal of
the title accordingly. It is settled that in such a situation
the courts may not take up the adjudication of the pending
claims, but must await the decision of the land officers
and the issue of patents in regular course. Michigan Land
& Lumber Co. v. Rust, 168 U. S. 589, 592-594; Brown v.
Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473; Cosmos Exploration Co. v. Gray
Eagle Oil Co., 190 U. S. 301, 315; Humbird v. Avery, 195
U. S. 480, 502. There is, however, a related jurisdiction
which the courts may exercise pending the final action
of those officers; they may protect a possession lawfully
acquired or restore one wrongfully interrupted, for that is
a matter which is not confided to the Land Department
and may be dealt with by the courts in the exercise of
their general powers. Gauthierv. Morrison, 232 U. S. 452,
461.
Whether the tracts as to which the swamp-land claim
is still pending were such as came within the terms of the
swamp-land grant is a question of fact the decision of
which is expressly committed to the Land Department;
and this also is true of the question whether the tracts
covered by the railroad company's lieu land selections
were when the selections were tendered so occupied and
appropriated as not properly to be subject to acquisition

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. McCOMAS
387.

Opinion of the Court.

in that way. The approval or disapproval by the Secretary of the Interior of such lieu selections is not merely
a formal act. It involves an exercise of sound, but not
arbitrary, discretion and makes it admissible for him,
where a selection is proffered for land which a bona fide
occupant, misinformed and misunderstanding his rights,
has reclaimed and improved at large cost, to reject the
selection and hold the title in the United States until,
as this court has said, "within the limits of existing law or
by special act of Congress," the occupant may be enabled
to obtain title from the United States, Williams v. United
States, 138 U. S. 514, 524.
As to the fifth tract the railroad company at the time of
the trial held a patent issued pending the suit on a lieu
land selection but recently initiated; so the prescriptive
right asserted by the plaintiff could not possibly include
that tract. If, as he asserts, the tract was so occupied or
appropriated that it properly could not be selected and
patented in lieu of land in place found to be mineral, that
may afford an adequate basis for a suit by the United
States to cancel the patent, Diamond Coal & Coke Co. v.
United States, 233 U. S.236, or afford a basis for holding
the railroad company as a trustee of the title for him if,
notwithstanding the silence of the present record on the
subject, he was entitled to a patent for the tract, Svor v.
Morris, 227 U. S. 524, 529-530; but it does not enable him
to complain on behalf of the United States or to assail
the patent collaterally. Hoofnagle v. Anderson, 7 Wheat.
212, 214-215; Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636, 647;
Bohall v. Dilla, 114 U. S. 47, 51; Sparks v. Pierce, 115
U. S.408, 412; Fisherv. Rule, 248 U. S.314, 318.
The Supreme Court of the State in its final opinion came
nearer the views here expressed than did the trial court,
but it assumed that the reconveyance by the railroad
company to the United States was not accepted by the
latter and so was of no effect. In this the court was mis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

taken, for it affirmatively appears not only that the land
officers after the reconveyance entertained the lieu selections of the same tracts, but also that they approved one
of those selections and passed it to patent. Besides, the
ultimate judgment entered by the court departs somewhat-possibly through a clerical inadvertence-from its
final opinion.
The judgment must be reversed and tho cause remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with the views
here expressed.
Judgment reversed.

CITY OF PAWHUSKA v. PAWHUSKA OIL & GAS
COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 281.

Argued March 25, 1919.--Decided June 9, 1919.

As respects grants to municipalities of governmental authority-and
such is the authority to regulate the rates charged to a city and
its inhabitants by a gas company-the power of the States is not
restrained by the contract clause of the Constitution. P. 397.
A city contended that, at the time when it granted a franchise to a
gas company to use the streets and supply gas to the city and its
inhabitants, the city alone had authority to regulate the charges
and service thereunder within its municipal limits; that the legislature could not transfer that authority to a state commission consistently with the state constitution; and that in consequence a later
act of the legislature, and an order of the commission thereunder
changing the service and increasing the rates, impaired the obligation of the franchise contract between the city and the company.
Held, that no question was presented under the contract clause
affording this court jurisdiction to review a judgment against the
city by the state Supreme Court. P. 396.
Writ of error to review 166 Pac. Rep. 1058, dismissed.

