OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

in the orderly conduct of the work for the purpose of
carrying the loads over and free from the work that was
being constructed. So far as this caused a yielding of the
tower under the stress of the load, it was an incidental
result, affecting or tending to affect the towers on both
sides, and not upon one side to the exclusion of the other.
It did not amount to a mechanical equivalent of the
claimant's structure; there is no semblance of an outward
inclination of a yielding tower or yielding support, but
rather a tendency on the part of rigid towers to break
down or collapse inwardly under an undue stress. And,
as we have shown, the rigidity of one support is as essential to claimant's structure as is the movability of the
other.
Inasmuch as the findings fully support the judgment
of the court below, its judgment must be and it is
Affirmed.

MACKAY TELEGRAPH & CABLE COMPANY v.
CITY OF LITTLE ROCK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 374.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted March 3, 1919.Decided May 19, 1919.

A telegraph company, although engaged in interstate business and under
the restrictions and obligations of the Post Roads Act of July 24,
1866, is subject to reasonable taxes imposed by a city upon the maintenance of poles and wires erected and maintained by the company
within the limits of the city under authority granted by its ordinances. P. 99.
Inasmuch as one legitimate object of such a tax is to recoup the special
cost of governmental supervision and regulation, it is not a valid
objection that it extends to poles standing on a railroad right of way,

MACKAY TELEGRAPH CO. v. LITTLE ROCK.
94.

95

Opinion of the Court.

or that some of these were brought within the city limits after the
company accepted its special franchise ordinance, in a case where
local governmental supervision is necessary for the protection of
travelers on highways crossed by the telegraph line on such right of
way. Id.
There is no support in the record for the contention that a tax of fifty
cents per pole per year is unreasonable in amount, even though it
be made to apply to poles standing on private property or upon a
railroad right of way as well as to poles erected in the streets. P. 100.
Where the "pole tax" imposed by franchise ordinance on one company is the same as is imposed by general ordinance on other companies, the fact that, as to poles on railroad rights of way, the tax
sought to be enforced against the one company has not been enforced
against the others does not prove a denial of the equal protection of
the laws, without proof of arbitrary and intentionally unfair discrimination or that the circumstances of the companies and their lines
were so much alike as to render any discrimination unreasonable. Id.
131 Arkansas, 306, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. James W. Mehaffy, for defendant in error, in support of the motion.
Mr. J. C. Marshall, for plaintiff in error, in opposition
to the motion.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was submitted on a motion to dismiss or
affirm. The facts are as follows: On March 11, 1912,
the city council of Little Rock passed an ordinance granting to the telegraph company the right to construct and
maintain telegraph poles, wires, and fixtures and to install
underground ducts and manholes along and over certain
streets in the city particularly mentioned, including the
following: "Also a line of poles and fixtures and the
right to string wires or cables thereon, beginning at the
intersection of East Second Street and Rector Avenue and
running thence on the west side of Rector Avenue to East

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Sixth; thence east on the north side of Sixth to the Chicago,
Rock Island & Pacific Railway tracks. From this point the
pole line will follow on and along the right of way of said
railway to the south city limits." Among other things the
ordinance provided that the company should pay to the
city immediately upon the completion of the line, and annually thereafter, "a license or tax of fifty cents for each
pole erected or set up and a license or tax on all conduits
constructed to an amount equal to four poles to each block.
And said company shall comply with all ordinances hereafter passed in regard to the license or tax on poles, conduits, or wires, either decreasing or increasing the same,
that are general and applicable to all telegraph or telephone companies in said city." Other provisions made
the location and maintenance of wires, poles, and conduits subject to the approval of the city officials; required
the poles to be kept painted, and the wires, poles, conduits, and manholes to be maintained in a first-class condition and so as not to endanger life or limb; permitted
the city to use the upper cross-arm of the poles for its fire
alarm and police telegraph 'or telephone wires; and required written acceptance by the company before the
ordinance should take effect. The company duly filed
its written acceptance, and thereafter constructed its line,
placing 66 poles upon city streets, 104 poles upon the
right of way of the railway within the limits of the city
as they existed at the acceptance of the ordinance, and
35 poles upon an adjacent portion of the right of way
which at the acceptance of the ordinance was without the
city limits but was brought within them a few days thereafter.
In the year 1917 the city sued the company in a state
court, setting up the above-mentioned ordinance, averring that it was duly accepted by the company and was a
contract between the parties, and alleging that pursuant
to it the defendant had erected and maintained in the

MACKAY TELEGRAPH CO. v. LITTLE ROCK.
94.

97

Opinion of the Court.

city 205 poles upon which there were due the license taxes
or fees at fifty cents per pole for four and a half years,
amounting to $461.25. The company by its answer admitted the passage and acceptance of the ordinance but
denied that it was a contract; alleged that the provision
as to license fees did not include the poles placed upon the
right of way of the railway company, especially not those
that were without the limits of the city at the time of the
acceptance of the ordinance; that fifty cents per pole per
year was unreasonable and excessive and sought to be imposed not for inspection and regulation of the poles but for
revenue purposes only; that said license fee or tax deprived
defendant of its property without due process of law and
denied to it the equal protection of the laws in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment; that defendant had accepted the restrictions and obligations of the Act of Congress approved July 24, 1866 (c. 230, 14 Stat. 221; Rev.
Stats., ยง 5263, et seq.); that its poles and wires were in use
for the transmission of messages for the United States
and the various departments of the Government; and
further that defendant was engaged principally in the
transmission of telegraphic messages between points in
Arkansas and points in other States and in foreign countries, and that the imposition of a fee or tax upon its poles
was a burden upon and illegal interference with interstate and foreign commerce and the regulatory power of
Congress over the same.
At the trial the company offered to pay the license tax
upon the 66 poles that were placed upon the city streets,
but disputed liability for those placed upon the railroad
right of way. It proved acceptance of the Act of Congress
of 1866, showed that the corporate limits had been extended after acceptance of the ordinance in such manner
as to include 35 additional poles along the right of way,
showed that the line on the right of way ran through a
thinly populated part of the city as compared with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

streets covered by the franchise, being crossed, however,
by two important streets and by two turnpikes that lead
into the city, and offered to prove that two other telegraph
companies maintaining poles and wires in the city were
required to pay the tax only upon poles maintained upon
the streets and not upon those maintained on railroad
rights of way. General ordinances of the city were introduced in evidence, one of them antedating the franchise
ordinance and providing as follows: "Each telegraph,
telephone, electric light or power company shall pay annually a sum equal to fifty cents for each pole used by
them whether such poles are leased, rented, or owned by
them."
The trial court overruled the contentions of defendant
and rendered a judgment against it for the entire amount
claimed. This was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State (131 Arkansas, 306), and the case is brought here
upon the contention that the taxing provision of the
franchise ordinance, as construed and applied, has the
effect of depriving the defendant of rights secured to it
by the Constitution and laws of the United States.
We are unable to see ground for dismissal of the writ
of error, and will pass at once to the merits.
Notwithstanding that some of the provisions of the
ordinance are contractual in form and by its own terms
it was to take effect only after written acceptance by the
company and such acceptance was in fact formally given,
the Supreme Court of the State, as we read its opinion,
dealt with the pole fees not as an agreed compensation
for the franchise but as a license tax. Consequently we
will-indeed must, for present purposes-so regard it.
Plaintiff in error contends that the court erred in construing the ordinance as imposing the tax with respect to
the poles standing upon the railroad right of way, and
especially as to the 35 poles which at the time of acceptance of the ordinance were without the limits of the city.

MACKAY TELEGRAPH CO. v. LITTLE ROCK.
94.

99

Opinion of the Court.

But as no question is raised here under the contract
clause of the Constitution we are not at liberty to revise
the decision of the state court upon the question of construction, and can only determine whether as construed
and applied the ordinance deprives plaintiff in error of
rights secured by other provisions of the Constitution and
laws of the United States.
That a reasonable tax upon the maintenance of poles
and wires erected and maintained by a telegraph company
within the limits of a city pursuant to authority granted
by its ordinances is not an unwarranted burden upon
interstate or foreign commerce or upon the functions of
the company as an agency of the government, and does
not infringe rights conferred by the act of Congress, is so
thoroughly settled by previous decisions of this court
that no further discussion is called for. St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 148 U. S. 92, 100; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. New Hope, 187 U. S. 419, 425; Atlantic &
Pacific Telegraph Co. v. Philadelphia,190 U. S. 160, 164;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Richmond, 224 U. S. 160;
Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Richmond, 249 U. S. 252.
These cases establish that a city (supposing, of course,
it acts under the authority of the State) may impose such
taxes not merely with respect to the special and exclusive
occupancy of streets and other public places by poles and
other equipment, but by way of compensation for the
special cost of supervising and regulating the poles, wires
and other fixtures and of issuing the necessary permits.
Hence, in the present case, we cannot hold that the fact
that a tax is imposed upon the poles that stand upon the
railway right of way, as well as on those that stand upon
the streets, is sufficient to condemn the ordinance, especially in view of the finding of the Supreme Court of
Arkansas that the telegraph line as laid along the right of
way crosses a street car line and several turnpikes coming
into the city, and that it is necessary there shall be local

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

governmental supervision of the lines crossing these highways for the protection of travelers upon them.
There is no support in the record for the contention that
a tax of fifty cents per pole per year is unreasonable in
amount, even though it be made to apply to poles standing on private property or upon a railroad right of way as
well as to poles erected in the streets.
Nor is there ground for holding that plaintiff in error
is subjected to unreasonable discrimination, in contravention of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The case shows that its franchise ordinance
imposes the same and no greater tax than that which is
applied by a general ordinance to other companies maintaining poles in the city. The offer of testimony to prove
that the two other companies were not in fact required to
pay the tax upon so many of their poles as stood upon
railroad rights of way went no further than to show that
the general ordinance had not been enforced against them
in the same manner that it was proposed to enforce the
franchise ordinance against plaintiff in error. There was
no offer to show an arbitrary and intentionally unfair
discrimination in the administration of the ordinance as in
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 374. Peradventure
the present action was a test case to determine whether
the license fees were applicable to poles standing elsewhere
than on the streets, with the intent, in case of an affirmative answer, to enforce the general ordinance against the
other companies in the same sense. Nor was there any
offer to show that the circumstances of the several companies and their telegraph lines were so much alike as to
render any discrimination in the application of the pole
tax 'equivalent to a denial of the equal protection of the
laws.
None of the contentions of plaintiff in error being well
founded, the judgment is
Affirmed.

