OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

the moving considerations, the power exercised must be
sustained. Frisbie v. United States, 157 U. S. 160; Ball v.
Halsell, 161 U. S. 72.
The first case dealt with conditions upon pension legislation; the second concerned a claim against the United
States on account of Indian depredations. It is, therefore,
contended that they are unlike Calhoun's contract with
Arnold and that their principle is not applicable. We
think otherwise. The legislation passed on was sustained
as within the power of government.
We conclude, therefore, that Calhoun's claim for a balance due as fees cannot be paid out of the moneys appropriated by Congress and now in the hands of the administrator de bonis non, or recognized as having any validity
as against that fund. Beyond this we need not go.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the

decision.

DANA, INDIVIDUALLY, v. DANA, EXECUTOR OF
DANA, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 276.

Argued March 24, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

A judgment holding certain shares of such a character as to come within
the general succession tax of the State, though the tax was opposed
as reaching real property outside of the State, held not to involve
the validity of the tax statute or of an authority exercised under the
State, and hence not to be reviewable by writ of error under Jud.
Code, ยง 237, as amended in 1916.
Writ of error to review 227 Massachusetts, 562, dismissed.

DANA v. DANA.
220.

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Hollis R. Bailey for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William Harold Hitchcock, Assistant Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, with whom
Mr. Henry C. Attwill, Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, was on the brief, for defendants
in error.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY delivered the memorandum opinion
of the court.
This is a writ of error seeking to review in this court a
decree of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts.
The controversy concerned the right to tax under the
Massachusetts Statutes of 1909, c. 490, Part IV, ยง 1, as
amended by Stats. 1912, c. 678, the passing of certain
interests under the will of Edith L. Dana, in the Duluth
and Gladstone Real Estate Trust, in thirty preferred
shares, forty-five common shares of the Amoskeag Manufacturing Company and in one hundred and thirty shares
of the Boston Ground Rent Trust.
The probate court held in favor of the Treasurer and
Receiver General,-that all of the interests of the testatrix in the several trusts and companies named were taxable under the Massachusetts statute. The case was decided in the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts on
June 29, 1917, and final decree entered July 23, 1917.
227 Massachusetts, 562. The ground upon which it is
sought to bring the case here on writ of error rests upon
the assertion that the Supreme Judicial Court erred in
sustaining the succession tax because it was imposed on
or on account of real estate situated outside of Massachusetts; therefore, rendering the assessment of the tax a violation of rights secured by the Fourteenth Amendment to

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

the Constitution of the United States, in that it took the
property of the plaintiff in error without due process of law.
The case was decided, and the decree entered in the
Supreme Judicial Court since the passage of the Act of
September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, amending ยง 237
of the Judicial Code. Since the passage of the amendment,
cases brought within its effect, of the character of this one,
cannot be brought here by writ of error unless there is
drawn in question the validity of a statute of or an authority exercised under the State on the ground of their being
repugnant to the Federal Constitution, treaties or laws.
Other cases of alleged denial of federal rights, as specified
in the statute, can be reviewed in this court only upon
writ of certiorari.
An examination of the record in the case and the opinion
of the Supreme Judicial Court, shows that neither the
validity of the statute, nor the validity of any authority
exercised under the State was drawn in question. The
case was decided on the view which the Supreme Judicial
Court entertained of the character of the property involved, and neither in the record nor in the opinion of the
court does it appear that any question was raised or decided which involved the validity of the statute of the
State, or of an authority exercised under the State, on the
ground of their repugnancy to the Constitution, treaties,
or laws of the United States. It follows that the only
right of review in this court of the decree of the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts was by writ of certiorari.
It is only necessary to refer to our decisions construing the
amendment of September 6, 1916. Philadelphia& Reading Coal & Iron Co. v. Gilbert, 245 U. S. 162; Ireland v.
Woods, 246 U. S. 323; Stadelman v. Miner, 246 U. S. 544;
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Solum, 247 U. S. 477, 481.
The writ of error must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Dismissed.

