OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Parties.

250 U. S.

judgment upon them we cannot disturb. Indeed, the
contention of the land company is but an instance of its
broader contention of want of power in the Supreme
Court to review the findings of the Court of First Instance
or to disregard the report of the commissioners. Accepting the decision of the court upon those propositions, we
necessarily affirm its judgment.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JusTICE BRANDEIS concurs

in the result.

JOSEPH SCHLITZ BREWING COMPANY v. HOUSTON ICE & BREWING COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 326.

Submitted April 24, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

A manufacturer of beer cannot claim the exclusive right to use brown
bottles with brown labels; but their adoption by a competitor may
contribute to a wrongful deception if combined with an imitative
inscription.
Held, that defendant's label was so dissimilar to plaintiff's in shape,
script, meaning, and mode of attachment, that it could not be said
to add appreciably to any deception that might arise from the
brown color of label and bottle.
241 Fed. Rep. 817, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Russell Jackson for petitioner. Mr. John W. McMillan was on the brief.
Mr. H. M. Garwood for respondents. Mr. Jesse Andrews
and Mr. Walter H. Walne were on the brief.

SCHLITZ BREWING CO. v. HOUSTON ICE CO.
28.

29

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity brought to restrain the use of a
trade-mark alleged to infringe the plaintiff's or at least to
be used in a way that is calculated to deceive and unfairly
to interfere with the plaintiff's good will. Both Courts
have found for the defendant, 241 Fed. Rep. 817, 154 C.
C. A. 519, so that the only question that we shall consider
is whether upon inspection it can be said as matter of law
that the admitted acts of the defendant are a wrong of
which the plaintiff can complain.
Both parties sell beer in brown bottles with brown labels
and the plaintiff conceded below and still with some unwillingness seems to concede that, although perhaps it
first introduced them in this connection and this place,
it cannot claim the brown bottle, the brown label, or the
two combined. These could be used without a warning,
such as sometimes is required, that the beer was not the
plaintiff's. The only question is how the additional element, the form of the inscription, should be treated. It
often is said that the plaintiff must show a deception arising from some feature of its own not common to the public. United States Tobacco Co. v. McGreenery, 144 Fed.
Rep. 531, 532, cited by the Court below. But so stated
the proposition may be misleading. It is not necessary
that the imitation of the plaintiff's feature taken alone
should be sufficient to deceive. It is a fallacy to break the
fagot stick by stick. It would be enough if taken with the
elements common to the public the inscription accomplished a result that neither would alone. New England
Awl & Needle Co. v. Marlborough Awl & Needle Co., 168
Massachusetts, 154, 156.
But it is true that the unlawful imitation must be what
achieves the deception, even though it could do so only on
the special background lawfully used. The question
again narrowed is whether that is the case here. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

shape of the defendant's label is different from the plaintiff's; the script upon it not only is wholly different from
the other in meaning, to one who reads the two, but hardly
can be said to resemble it as a picture. The two labels are
attached to the bottles in quite unlike modes. The Schlitz
is applied in a spiral around the length of the bottle so as
to make the ends of the label parallel to the sides of the
glass. The defendant's is pasted around the bottom of
the bottle in the usual way. This diversity of itself renders mistake unlikely. If there were deception it seems to
us that it would arise from beer and brown color and that
it could not be said that the configuration appreciably
helped. Coats v. Merrick Thread Co., 149 U. S. 562, 573.
Beyond stating the principles to be applied there is little
to be said except to compare the impression made by the
two, or, if that form of statement is preferred, the memory
of Schlitz with the presence of the defendant's bottles
as marked.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA and MR. JUSTICE PrmNEY

dissent.

COLEMAN, SURVIVING -ADMINISTRATRIX OF
COLEMAN, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 343.

Argued April 29, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

A tax demanded and paid under ยง 29 of the War Revenue Act of
June 13, 1898, c. 448, 30 Stat. 448, on a contingent beneficial interest not vested prior to July 1, 1902, contrary to the Refunding
Act of June 27, 1902, c.1160, ยง 3, 32 Stat. 406, is a tax "erroneously

