OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

gation in a state court pending our determination of the
suit between States. In setting up this contention plaintiff
in error did no more than assert a title, right, privilege,
or immunity under the Constitution of the United States.
This, at most, afforded ground for an application to this
court for a review of the resulting judgment by certiorari,
but not for a writ of error. The case of Cissnav. Tennessee,
242 U. S. 195; 246 U. S. 289, 293, in which a similar question was raised but not passed upon, was brought to this
court by writ of error, but before ยง 237, Judicial Code, was
amended by the Act of 1916. The present writ of error
must be dismissed.
On the eve of the argument a writ of certiorari was
applied for; but as this was long after the expiration of
the three months limited by ยง 6 of the Act of September 6,
1916, the application cannot be entertained, irrespective
of whether the record shows a proper case for the allowance of that writ.
Writ of error dismissed.
Application for writ of certioraridenied.

FILLIPPON v. ALBION VEIN SLATE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 241.

Argued March 18, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

In response to an inquiry from the jury, who had retired to consider of
their verdict, the trial court sent them a supplementary instruction
in writing on a question of contributory negligence. Held error, the
parties and their counsel being absent and no opportunity being
given them either to be present or to make timely objection.
P. 80.

FILLIPPON v. ALBION VEIN SLATE CO.
76.

Opinion of the Court.

An opportunity afterwards to except to an instruction and to the manner of giving it is not equivalent to an opportunity to be present
during the proceedings, since the prime and essential function of an
exception is to direct the mind of the trial judge to the point in question so that he may reconsider and change his ruling if convinced of
error. P. 81.
In jury trials erroneous instructions are presumptively harmful. P. 82.
An erroneous instruction may neutralize a correct one on the same subject and introduce material error. P. 83.
Under the law of Pennsylvania, a servant who goes on with perilous
work under the peremptory orders of his master, although knowing
the attendant danger and 'having time to consider, is not guilty
of contributory negligence unless he knows, or has reason to suppose,
that the danger is inevitable or imminent. P. 82.
242 Fed. Rep. 258, reversed.

Tm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Calvin F. Smith, with whom Mr. J. Willard Paff
was on the brief, for petitioner.

Mr. Ralph B. Evans for respondent.
Mn. JusTicE PrTNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves an important question of trial practice. It was an action brought by Fillippon, a citizen of
Italy and a subject of the King of Italy, against the Slate
Company, a Pennsylvania corporation doing business in
that State, to recover damages for personal injuries sustained by plaintiff while in the employ of defendant, due
as alleged to the negligence of defendant's foreman or
superintendent under whom plaintiff was working. The
grounds of negligence alleged were the failure to furnish a
reasonably safe place for the work, failure to warn plaintiff of latent dangers of the work and the dangerous method
of doing it, and specifically that plaintiff was directed
to do the work in a particular manner under orders and

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

instructions of defendant's foreman, to which plaintiff
was bound to conform. There was a general plea of not
guilty and a trial by jury. The evidence showed that the
occurrence took place July 31, 1914, while plaintiff was at
work in an open quarry under the direction of a foreman
or superintendent and as one of a gang consisting of four
quarrymen or blockmen besides plaintiff who assisted
them as an ordinary laborer or "rubbish hand." It appeared that by the usual method of work, with which
plaintiff was familiar, after a block of slate has been
blasted out it is raised by crowbars and by wedges of wood
or iron placed beneath it, in order that chains may be
placed about it to which the hoisting tackle is made fast.
In case the block is small the wedges are placed by the
workman's hand, it not being necessary to insert them
beyond the edge of the block. In case of large blocks,
the wedges are put in by hand so far as this can be done
without placing the hand beneath the block, and then a
stick or the handle of a tool is employed in order to push
the wedge farther in, the workman being thus protected
from injury in case the stone should happen to slip or
drop. Plaintiff's duty as rubbish hand was that of a
general utility man, expected to do whatever the foreman
or superintendent might direct. On the occasion in question a large block had been blasted out and was being
raised in order that chains might be put about it. Plaintiff was assisting, and had inserted a wedge as far as he
could push it without putting his hand beneath the stone,
but it was necessary that the wedge should be pushed
farther in, and he, being afraid that if he did this with his
hand the block might fall upon his arm, told the foreman
or superintendent that he wanted to get something with
which to push the wedge. Instead of consenting, the
foreman ordered him to "go ahead, go ahead," and in
obedience to this he put his right hand beneath the block,
when with a sudden movement the block came down on

FILLIPPON v. ALBION VEIN SLATE CO.
76.

Opinion of the Court.

his arm and crushed it so that amputation was necessary.
The trial judge submitted the question of defendant's
negligence and of plaintiff's contributory negligence to the
jury, saying, in his principal charge, among other things:
"When a man accepts employment he assumes also with
it the ordinary risk incident to such employment, and if
you find the circumstances or situation in which the plaintiff found himself at the time of the accident, or that his
performance leading up to the injury was of ordinary occurrence, then you may conclude that he had assumed the
risk of the accident that has befallen him, and he cannot
recover; but on his part it is contended that the situation
in which he found himself at the time when the stone or
slate block, properly speaking, was suspended or lifted
by the men was of an extraordinary character, that the
plaintiff when about to place the iron wedge found the
stone or block large, and threatening danger, as he believed, whereupon he was suddenly and hastily summoned
and directed to act by the foreman, whereupon he had but
little or no time to judge of his own safety, and yielding
to the judgment of his superior he acted. Now, if you
find the facts as contended for by the plaintiff, I will
ask you to say whether he was guilty of contributory negligence under the circumstances. Could he have protected
or saved himself by the use or exercise of ordinary care?
If he is to blame in part, or has in any manner contributed
to his injury, he is not entitled to your verdict. The rule
in negligence cases is, that while the defendant is held to
exercise due and reasonable care under the circumstances,
the plaintiff is also held to exercise the same degree of
care, and if he does not do so, he cannot recover. Of
course, if the master gives positive orders to go on with
the work, under perilous circumstances, the servant may
recover for an injury thus incurred, if the work was not
inevitably or imminently dangerous. If the danger was

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

imminent that faced the plaintiff, and he in the face of
it did the thing that he knew, as a reasonably careful
man, under the circumstances, was dangerous, he is
guilty of contributory negligence and cannot recover."
The bill of exceptions shows that after the trial judge
had completed his instructions and the jury had retired
for deliberation, and while they were deliberating, the
jury sent to the judge the following written inquiry:
"Whether the plaintiff in pushing the wedge beneath
the block of slate with his hand, having full knowledge
of the risk involved, thereby became guilty of contributory negligence, even though told by Foreman Davis to
'push it under."' To which the trial judge replied by
sending the following written instruction to the jury
room, in the absence of the parties and their counsel,
without their consent, and without calling the jury in
open court: "If he was told to put it under as stated by
the plaintiff and he did so, fully appreciating at the time
the danger attending and having sufficient time to consider, when he was face to face with a situation that would
have made a reasonably prudent man to disobey the
orders of the foreman, notwithstanding, and he went
ahead in spite of the dangers known to him and apparent,
he is guilty of contributory negligence."
To this action of the court plaintiff excepted at the first
opportunity upon grounds that raise two questions: (a)
Whether it was erroneous to give this supplementary
instruction in the absence of the parties and without calling the jury in open court, and (b) whether the instruction so given was erroneous.
The jury having returned a verdict in favor of defendant, and a motion for a new trial having been denied,
the resulting judgment was brought under the review
of the Circuit Court of Appeals and there affirmed. 242
Fed. Rep. 258. Thereupon this writ of certiorari was allowed.

FILLIPPON v. ALBION VEIN SLATE CO.
76.

Opinion of the Court.

We entertain no doubt that the orderly conduct of a
trial by jury, essential to the proper protection of the
right to be heard, entitles the parties who attend for the
purpose to be present in person or by counsel at all proceedings from the time the jury is impaneled until it is
discharged after rendering the verdict. Where a jury
has retired to consider of its verdict, and supplementary instructions are required, either because asked for
by the jury or for other reasons, they ought to be given
either in the presence of counsel or after notice and an
opportunity to be present; and written instructions ought
not to be sent to the jury without notice to counsel and an
opportunity to object. Under ordinary circumstances,
and wherever practicable, the jury ought to be recalled
to the court room, where counsel are entitled to anticipate,
and bound to presume, in the absence of notice to the
contrary, that all proceedings in the trial will be had. In
this case the trial court erred in giving a supplementary
instruction to the jury in the absence of the parties and
without affording them an opportunity either to be
present or to make timely objection to the instruction.
See Stewart v. Wyoming Ranche Co., 128 U. S. 383, 390;
Aerheart v. St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co., 99 Fed. Rep.
907, 910; Yates v. Whyel Coke Co., 221 Fed. Rep. 603,

608; and many decisions of the state courts collated in
17 L. R. A., N. S., 609, note to State of North Dakota v.
Murphy, 17 N. Dak. 48.
The Circuit Court of Appeals considered that the jury
had asked a plain question in writing concerning a matter
of law, and the judge had answered it in writing plainly
and accurately, and were of the opinion that since nothing
else had occurred-the question and answer having been

preserved of record and counsel having been promptly
notified of what had taken place and given the opportunity of excepting to the substance of the instruction and to
the manner of giving it-no harm had been done, and none

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

was probable to arise under like circumstances, and hence
affirmed the judgment.
It is not correct, however, to regard the opportunity of
afterwards excepting to the instruction and to the manner
of giving it as equivalent to an opportunity to be present
during the proceedings. To so hold would be to overlook
the primary and essential function of an exception, which
is to direct the mind of the trial judge to the point in
which it is supposed that he has erred in law, so that he
may reconsider it and change his ruling if convinced of
error, and that injustice and mistrials due to inadvertent
errors may thus be obviated. United States v. U. S.
Fidelity Co., 236 U. S. 512, 529; GueriniStone Co. v. Carlin
Construction Co., 248 U. S. 334, 348.
And of course in jury trials erroneous rulings are presumptively injurious, especially those embodied in instructions to the jury; and they furnish ground for reversal
unless it affirmatively appears that they were harmless.
In this case, so far from the supplementary instruction
being harmless, in our opinion it was erroneous and calculated to mislead the jury in that it excluded a material
element that needed to be considered in determining
whether plaintiff should be held guilty of contributory
negligence under the particular hypothesis referred to in
the jury's question.
The case was governed by the law of Pennsylvania,
where the injury was received and the trial took place.
Rev. Stats., ยง 721. The law of that State, as it stood
when the cause of action arose I is expressed in repeated
decisions of its court of last resort to the following effect:
"Where the servant, in obedience to the requirement of
the master, incurs the risk of machinery, which though
dangerous, is not so much so as to threaten immediate
injury, or where it is reasonably probable it may be safely
1 See

Workmen's Compensation Act of 1915, Pa. Laws 1915, p. 736.

FILLIPPON v. ALBION VEIN SLATE CO.
76.

Opinion of the Court.

used by extraordinary caution or skill, the rule is different.
In such case the master is liable for a resulting accident."
And, with reference to the particular circumstances of the
case there under consideration: "If the defect was so
great, that obviously, with the use of the utmost skill and
care, the danger was imminent, so much so, that none but
a reckless man would incur it, the employer would not be
liable." Patterson v. Pittsburg & Connellsville R. R. Co.,
76 Pa. St. 389, 394. "If the master gives the servant to
understand that he does not consider the risk one which a
prudent person should refuse to undertake, the servant
has a right to rely upon his master's judgment, unless his
own is so clearly opposed thereto that, in fact, he does not
rely upon his master's opinion. A servant is not called
upon to set up his own unaided judgment against that of
his superiors, and he may rely upon their advice and still
more upon their orders, notwithstanding many misgivings
of his own. The servant's dependent and inferior position
is to be taken into consideration; and if the master gives
him positive orders to go on with the work, under perilous
circumstances, the servant may recover for an injury thus
incurred, if the work was not inevitably and imminently
dangerous." Williams v. Clark, 204 Pa. St. 416, 418.
To the same effect, Glew v. Pittsburgh Railways Co., 234
Pa. St. 238, 242, 243; Moleskey v. South Fork Coal Mining
Co., 247 Pa. St. 434, 437, 438.
In the present case the trial judge recognized this to be
the applicable rule of law when orignally instructing the
jury, for he said: "Of course, if the master gives positive
orders to go on with the work, under perilous circumstances, the servant may recover for an injury thus incurred, if the work was not inevitably or imminently
dangerous." But this was neutralized, and the jury probably led astray, when in the supplementary instruction
they were told, in effect, that if, when plaintiff obeyed the
foreman's order by putting the wedge beneath the heavy

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

block of slate with his hand, he fully appreciated the
attendant danger and had sufficient time to consider, and
if the situation was such as would have made a reasonably
prudent man disobey the order, and he went ahead in
spite of the dangers known to him and apparent, he was
guilty of contributory megligence. The effect of this was
to bar a recovery if the plaintiff knew of the attendant
danger, although he did not know or have reason to suppose that the danger was inevitable or imminent, that is,
immediately threatening. We suppose it hardly could
have been a point in dispute that plaintiff knew that the
operation of pushing the wedge beneath a large block of
slate with his hand was dangerous, for he was familiar
with the work, knew what safeguard was customarily
taken against this danger, expressed a fear of it upon the
particular occasion, and requested time to get an implement to be used for his safety according to the custom.
It was at this precise moment, according to the testimony,
that the foreman or superintendent told him to "go ahead,
go ahead"; and under the Pennsylvania decisions he was
entitled to rely upon the judgment and order of his
superior if the work was not inevitably and imminently
dangerous; that is, threatening immediate injury upon
the particular occasion. The jury very reasonably might
conclude that neither plaintiff nor the foreman believed
or had reason to believe that the work was inevitably and
imminently dangerous; but if it was not, he was entitled,
under the Pennsylvania decisions, to hold his employer
responsible for the consequences of what he did under
peremptory orders of the foreman, although he (the plaintiff) fully appreciated the general dangers, had time
to consider, and went ahead notwithstanding.
The judgment under review will be reversed, and the cause
remanded to the District Court for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.

