OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Syllabus.

250 U. S.

is not tenable. The facts were exhibited in the pleadings
and they showed that the conditions for the application of
the law existed. They showed insurance effected through
the brokers, Lowry and Prince, their communication with
the insurance company, their transmission of money to
it, the payment of their commission by the company, and
the consultation of the company with them as to the
"subject matter insured, and the companies carrying
insurance thereon," to use the language of the rejoinder.
A motion to dismiss is made on the ground that the
federal questions raised were not passed upon by the
courts of the State, but that the courts rested their decision on the fact that the contracts were made in Florida
rather than in Pennsylvania. That, however, was a disputed proposition and the motion so far involved the
merits of the case that we have considered, under such
circumstances, justice would be better served by going
into the merits. Beaumont v. Prieto, 249 U. S. 554.
Judgment affirmed.

CALDWELL ET AL., COPARTNERS, TRADING AS
CALDWELL & DUNWODY, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 325.

Submitted April 23, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

The provision of the General Railroad Right of Way Act of March 3,
1875, granting a beneficiary railroad company the right to take
from the public lands adjacent to its line timber necessary for the
construction of its railroad, must be strictly construed, and does
not permit that portions of trees remaining after extraction of ties
be appropriated, either as a means of business or profit or to compensate the agents employed by the railroad to do the tie-cutting. P. 19.
A grant of "timber" for purposes of railroad construction is not a

grant of "trees,"

P. 21.

CALDWELL v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellants.

14.

Section 8 of the Act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, 26 Stat. 1099, enacting
that, in proceedings growing out of trespasses on public timber
lands in Colorado and some other States, it shall be a defense that
the cutting or removal was by a resident of the State for agricultural, mining, manufacturing or domestic purposes, under rules of
the Interior Department, etc., but providing that nothing in the act
contained shall operate to enlarge the rights of any railway company to cut timber on the public domain, gives no protection to
persons who, having cut ties as agents of a railroad company under
the Act of March 3, 1875, supra, seek to appropriate the remaining
tops of the trees cut, for the purpose of sale. P. 21.
The right to take timber granted by the Act of March 3, 1875, supra,
cannot be enlarged by a permission from an official of the General
Land Office. P. 22.
53 Ct. Clms. 33, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William C. Prentiss for appellants:
Under various laws and conditions similar situations
have been presented and uniformly, wherever a right to
cut or take timber has been recognized, the right to dispose of it as incidental to its cutting or taking has followed.
United States v. Cook, 19 Wall. 591; Shiver v. United State3,
159 U. S. 491; Stone v. United States, 167 U. S. 178; 27
L. D. 366; 30 L. D. 88.
In all of these instances the right to cut the timber is
raised as an incident and carries with it the vesting of
title in the occupant to timber so lawfully cut. The right
of a railroad company to take timber for construction
purposes is an express grant. Taking "timber necessary
for the construction of its railroad" contemplates the
taking of trees. In the United States statutes the word
"timber" used collectively signifies standing trees. 28
Enc., 2d ed., 537, and cases cited.
In the absence of any express provision as to the disposition of lops and tops or other surplus, the principles
recognized in the cases of Indian occupants, homesteaders,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Appellants.

250 U. S.

and mineral claimants furnish the only reasonable solution.
The Land Department, in its regulations under this
act and the Act of June 3, 1878, authorizing the taking
of timber from mineral lands (see 8 Copp's Land Owner,
p. 94; 9 id. p. 100; 4 L. D. 150; Land Office Annual Report, 1886, pp. 446, 451, 453), did not undertake to make
any declaration as to the ownership of the tops and lops
of trees, but merely made provisions against waste and
in avoidance of fire. It evidently regarded the tops, lops
and brush all as refuse, which, if not removed, should be
piled and burned.
The Land Department could lawfully authorize the
taking of the lops and tops in consideration of careful
piling of the brush so as to minimize the danger of forest
fires, even if the lops and tops did not pass to the railroad
company as part of the "timber" which it was authorized
to take.
To permit the railroad companies to use the surplus
tops, lops, etc., as an element in adjusting the compensation of agents employed to fell the trees and manufacture
therefrom the lumber required for construction purposes,
is promotive of the policy of the act and in accord with
the general policy of the Government.
And final recognition by the Land Department that the
right to dispose of "refuse" or "surplus" is incidental to
the right to take timber for railroad construction purposes,
is evidenced by the instructions of the Commissioner to
the Chief of Field Service at Denver. A comparison of the
language of the several acts authorizing the taking of
timber from the public lands (Rev. Stats., § 5264; Acts of
1875, 1878, 1891,) shows that they contemplate the taking
of trees themselves and in none of them is any notice
taken of any surplus not available for the purposes specified. See Land Office Report for 1887, p. 480.
[Counsel here analyzed and criticised the opinion of the

CALDWELL v. UNITED STATES.
14.

Opinion of the Court.

District Court in United States v. Denver & Rio GrandeRy.
Co., 190 Fed. Rep. 825, in comparison with the earlier
opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the same case,
124 id. 159.]
It is alleged in the amended petition that the lands
where the timber was cut were designated for the purpose
by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, through
the Chief of Field Service, and that the tie slash was to be
utilized for the purposes specified in the Act of 1891 and
within the State of Colorado, thus bringing the case
clearly within that act. United States v. Lynde, 47 Fed.
Rep. 297.
The opinion of Assistant Attorney General Van Devanter, of November 27, 1899 (29 L. D. 322), to the effect
that this act does not authorize the sale of timber, went
only to sale of timber by the Secretary of the Interior
under assumed authority of the act.
The regulations of 1900 (29 L. D. 571, 572) declared
that the Act of 1891 (as well as the Act of 1878) did not
authorize the cutting of timber for sale to others. But
in 1904 the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in United States v. Rossi, 133 Fed. Rep. 380, held
that such attempted restriction of the Act of 1878 was
beyond the power of the Land Department; and in 1905
this court, in United States v. United Verde Copper Co.,
196 U. S. 207, applied the same principle in declaring
void the provision of the same regulations declaring that
timber could not be cut for smelting purposes.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This action was brought by appellants to recover the
value of certain timber cut from the public lands of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

United States in the State of Colorado, called "tie slash"
or "tie slashing," the term being used to describe the tops
of trees the bodies of which have been used for maling
railroad ties.
The right of recovery is based upon contracts with
the Denver, Northwestern & Pacific Railway Company,
which had been given the right to cut timber upon
the public lands adjacent to the line of its road by
the Act of Congress of March 3, 1875, c. 152, 18
Stat. 482.
The Court of Claims sustained a demurrer to the petition and dismissed it. To review that action this appeal
has been prosecuted.
Appellants were, in June, 1906, by due appointment of
the railway company, its timber agents, to cut timber
from the public lands for construction of the railroad
under the act of Congress. And by agreement with the
company they were given all of the "tie slash" of the
trees cut down for the purpose. Pursuant to the contract,
and prior to October, 1906, they manufactured and delivered to the company 88,797 ties, which left a large
amount of "tie slash."
By a letter from one N. J. O'Brien, describing himself
as "Chief, Field Division, G. L. 0.," and expressed to be
by instructions from the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, there was granted to appellants authority to
cut timber under the act of Congress and "to sell and
dispose of tops and lops of trees that" they "may cut
for construction" of the road which could not be used for
road construction purposes. Inquiry first was to be made
of the officers of the railway company if they would purchase the tops and lops appellants had on hand.
The letter contained a ruling of the Land Office that
contractors should confine their cutting strictly to such
timber as was needed by the railway company and that
such "refuse" as resulted from such cutting might "be

CALDWELL v. UNITED STATES.
14.

Opinion of the Court.

disposed of by the railroad company or by the contractors
without violation of existing law." A violation of the law,
it was stated, would require a notice to the company to
nullify the contract and agency and would subject the
contractors to be proceeded against "as in ordinary cases
of timber trespass."
Thereafter appellants entered into another contract
with the company under which they manufactured additional ties and delivered them to it, and a further amount
of "tie slash" was left. A large amount of this appellants
agreed to sell to the Fraser River Timber Company, of
Denver, Colorado, and to the Leyden Coal Company, of
the same place, they sold 200 cars of mining props cut by
them from the "tie slash," all to be used in the State of
Colorado.
March 2, 1907, the land from which the ties had been
cut was by presidential proclamation included in the
Medicine Bow National Forest and the officers of the Forest Service permitted appellants to remove the poles already cut from the "tie slash" and also to have all of
tops and refuse on the so-called "fireguard" 200 feet
wide along the railway for a distance of two miles, but
refused to allow them to have any of the remainder of the
"tie slash," and took possession of and sold it; and the
proceeds were covered into the Treasury of the United
States. To recover the sum of the proceeds thus covered
into the Treasury, or such other amount as might be
found to have been received by the United States from
such sale, this action was brought.
The elements for consideration are not many. The
first of these is the Act of 1875, supra. It grants a right
of way to the railway company [the grant is to railroad
companies of a certain description-we make it particular for convenience] through the public lands of the
United States to the extent of 200 feet on each side of its
central line, and the right to take from the public lands

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

adjacent to its line " . . . timber necessary for the
construction of said railroad." The right given is to take
"timber" and this, it is argued, necessarily means "trees,"
and as there is no provision for disposition of what shall
be left of them after using such portions for railroad purposes, it must be determined by "reason and analogy,"
and from these appellants argue that the railway company
was entitled to the "tie slash" as incident to its right to
cut under the act of Congress. They adduce United States
v. Cook, 19 Wall. 591; Shiver v. United States, 159 U. S.
491; Stone v. United States, 167 U. S. 178.
The instances of the cases, however, are not in analogy
to that of the case at bar. In the first the right was given
to Indians as a legitimate use of land reserved by them
from the cession of a larger tract to the United States,
the right of use and occupancy being unlimited. The
second case involved the cutting and sale of timber by a
homesteader and they were considered a use of the land,
his privileges with respect to standing timber being analogous to those of a tenant for life; the third case was of
like kind, and the other two cases were cited. Other cases
referred to by appellants struggled with the problem without solving it and we need not review or comment upon
their reasoning nor consider some state cases.
The contention of appellants encounters the rule that
statutes granting privileges or relinquishing rights are to
be strictly construed; or, to express the rule more directly,
that such grants must be construed favorably to the
Government and that nothing passes but what is conveyed
in clear and explicit language-inferences being resolved
not against but for the Government. Wisconsin Central
R. R. Co. v. United States, 164 U. S. 190; United States v.
Oregon & California R. R. Co., 164 U. S. 526. And the
Government invokes the rule in the present case and
cites in implied support of the invocation United States
v. Denver & Rio Grande Ry. Co. 150 U. S. 1, and in express

CALDWELL v. UNITED STATES.
14.

Opinion of the Court.

support of it United States v. Denver & Rio Grande Ry. Co.,
190 Fed. Rep. 825, 828. And these cases were cited by
the Court of Claims for its judgment.
The rule, it seems to us, is particularly applicable.
There was a grant of timber by the Act of March 3, 1875,
not of trees, but of timber for purposes of railroad construction, not as a means of business or of profit; nor
could it be made an element, as contended, of compensation to the agents employed to cut it.
Appellants invoke the Act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, 26
Stat. 1095, 1099, in justification and as giving them a
right independently of their asserted right derived through
the railway company. Section 8 of that act provides that
in criminal prosecutions for trespass on public timber lands
in Colorado (and some other States) or to recover timber
or lumber cut, it shall be a defense to show that the timber
was cut or removed from the lands for use in the State
by a resident thereof for agricultural, mining, manufacturing or domestic purposes under the rules of the Interior
Department, and has not been transported out of the
State. But it is provided that nothing in the act contained
shall operate to enlarge the rights of any railway company to cut timber on the public domain, and there are
other provisions giving the Secretary of the Interior the
power to designate the tracts from which the timber may
be cut or to prescribe the rules and regulations for the
cutting.
We think it is clear that appellants are not within the
provisions of the act. They are not and were not in the
designated classes nor contemplated the uses which the
act protects. They were agents of the railway company
for so much of the timber as was to be used in railroad
construction; of what was left they were simply vendors
for profit. To enable them to so use the act or to use it
for any but the designated purposes would be a violation
of that provision of the act which forbids its operation

OCTOBER, TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

"to enlarge the rights of any railway company to cut
timber on the public domain"; it would make the act
available to a railroad as a means of profit or other purpose than road construction. And its value would be a
temptation to do so. In this case it is alleged that the
value of the "tie slash" that the officers of the Forest
Service took possession of (it was only part of that which
was cut) "was, and is, $26,454.90."
Finally, appellants rely upon the letter of the Chief,
Field Division, General Land Office, supra. The immediate answer is that made by the Court of Claims: the want
of power in the officer to enlarge the Act of March 3, 1875,
and to give rights in the public lands not conferred by it.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in the decision.

TAYABAS LAND COMPANY, ASSIGNEE AND SUCCESSOR OF VELASQUEZ ET AL., v. MANILA
RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 331.

Argued April 25, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

Under §§ 246, 273, 496 and 497 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the
Philippine Islands, the Supreme Court of the Islands may review
the evidence touching the amount of an award reported by commissioners and accepted by the Court of First Instance in a condemnation case, and may find a different amount upon a preponderance of the evidence and modify the judgment accordingly if
a motion for new trial has been made and exceptions taken as provided in the last-mentioned section. P. 24.
This court will accept a construction placed by the Supreme Court
of the Philippine Islands upon a local statute, if not clearly erro-

