OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

KINZELL v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL
RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
IDAHO.
No. 485.

Argued April 15, 1919.--Decided May 19, 1919.

In the progress of filling in earth to replace a railroad trestle used in
interstate commerce, the earth as dumped attained a level higher
than the rails on the trestle, and, to keep the track open for traffic,
as well as to widen the embankment, the earth was spread away by
scrapers adjusted to a car attached for the purpose to the dump
train. Held, that an employee in charge of the car, and employed
also in removing earth and stones from between the rails, was employed in interstate commerce within the meaning of the Employers'
Liability Act.
31 Idaho, 365, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. James A. Wayne, with whom Mr. John P. Gray and
Mr. William D. Keeton were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. George W. Korte, with whom Mr. Heman H. Field
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes into this court on writ of certiorari to
the Supreme Court of the State of Idaho and all of the
facts essential to its decision are admitted or are not controverted, and are as follows:
When the accident complained of in the case occurred,
the Railway Company, respondent, was engaged in filling
with earth a wooden trestle-work bridge, 1200 feet in
length, by which its track was carried across a dry gulch

KINZELL v. (IHICAGO, M. & ST. P. RY. CO.
130,

131

Opinion of the Court.

or coulee, the purpose being to continue the track upon
the solid embankment when it should be completed.
It was admitted that the Railway Company was engaged
in interstate commerce, and that during the progress of
the filling the bridge was used for interstate trains. Pursuant to an order of court, the petitioner, an employee of
the respondent, elected to rely on the Federal Employers'
Liability Act of April 22, 1908, for his right to recover.
Several weeks prior to the accident to the petitioner
Kinzell, the work of filling the bridge had progressed to such
a stage that when earth was dumped from cars it would
be heaped up beside the track higher than the tops of the
ties and rails so that it became necessary to spread it by
pushing it away from the track toward the edge of the
fill, in order to prevent its falling back upon the rails and to
widen the embankment. To thus spread the earth an appliance called in the record a "dozer," and sometimes a
"bull dozer," was used. It consisted substantially of a
flat car body with adjustable wings or scrapers, so designed
as to remove any earth which might fall upon the rails
and also to press or push that heaped up at the side of
the track out to the edge of the embankment.
When a train-load of earth would arrive at the bridge
the practice was to couple the "dozer" to the forward
end of the cars and then they and the "dozer" would be
pushed to the place at which it was desired to unload the
earth. After the cars were dumped the pulling of the
"dozer" back with them would scrape the earth from the
tops of the rails and would push it away from the track,
thus contributing to keep the track clear and to widen the
embankment.
For several weeks prior to the accident complained of,
Kinzell, with an assistant, had been in charge of this
"dozer," using it as described, and in addition to this they
were required to remove, with shovels, earth or stones
which fell upon the track, so, the superintendent of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Railway testified, as to make it safe for the operation of
trains. The rails and ties had not been transferred to the
embankment, but were still sustained by the bridge substructure when the accident occurred.
Kinzell was injured by what he claimed was negligence
of the Company in the manner of coupling a train of cars
to the "dozer" as an immediate preliminary to such an
unloading and cleaning movement as we have described.
Much is made in argument of the contention that the
fill in progress was not the repairing of, nor the furnishing
of support to, the bridge, which, by the testimony of the
engineer in charge of bridges, had about a year "of life"
remaining when the accident occurred. For this reason
it is contended that the principles of Pedersen v. Delaware,
Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 229 U. S. 146, do not
apply. But in the view we take of the case this is not
important.
With these facts before it, the Supreme Court of Idaho,
in its judgment which we are reviewing, reversed the
judgment of the lower court in Kinzell's favor, solely
upon the ground that he was not employed in interstate
commerce at the time he was injured, and gave this as
the reason for its conclusion:
"We are of the opinion that constructing a fill to take
the place of a trestle which is being used in interstate
commerce is new construction, and that the fill does not
become a part of the railroad until it is completed and
the track is placed upon it instead of upon the trestle."
Such conclusion, of course, is not derived from any
construction of the act of Congress, but rests wholly upon
the interpretation which the court placed upon the undisputed facts, as we have stated them.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act provides that:
"Every common carrier by railroad while engaging in
commerce between any of the several States . . . shall
be liable in damages to any person suffering injury while

KINZELL v. CHICAGO, M. & ST. P. RY. CO.
130.

133

Opinion of the Court.

he is employed by such carrier in such commerce." (35
Stat. 65, c. 149.)
It being admitted that the Railway Company was engaged in interstate commerce, the only question for decision is whether the petitioner was employed in such commerce, within the meaning of the act as construed by this
court.
In Pedersen v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R.
Co., 229 U. S. 146, it is stated that a guide to a decision of
such a case as we have here may be found in the questions:
Was the work being done independently of the interstate
commerce inwhich the company was engaged or was it so
closely connected therewith as to be a part of it? Was its
performance a matter of indifference so far as that commerce was concerned or was it in the nature of a duty
resting upon the carrier? And in other cases it is said, in
substance, that in such inquiries may be found the true
test of employment in such commerce in the sense intended
by the act. Shanks v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western
R. R. Co., 239 U. S. 556, 558; New York Central R. R. Co.
v. White, 243 U. S. 188, 192. It is also settled that the
doing of work which has for its immediate purpose the
furthering of the conduct of interstate commerce constitutes an employment in such commerce within the
meaning of the act. New York Central &c.R. R. Co. v.
Carr, 238 U. S. 260; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Parker, 242 U. S. 13; Pecos & Northern Texas Ry. Co. v.
Rosenbloom, 240 U. S. 439; Southern Ry. Co. v. Puckett,
244 U. S. 571, 573.
It is in evidence in this case, indeed, it is obvious, that
the" dozer" was not called into use until the fill had reached
the level of the tops of the ties and had become of such
width that the earth when dumped would pile up near the
track so as to fall back upon it, if not removed, and that
it was used for the double purpose of keeping the rails
clear for the interstate commerce passing over them and

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

for pushing the material to the edge of the embankment
to widen it. When to this it is added that a part of Kinzell's duty was, with a shovel, to keep the track between
the rails clear of earth and stones, which might fall upon
it in the progress of the work, clearly it cannot be soundly
said that when he was in the act of preparing to make the
required use of the "dozer" he was acting independently
of the interstate commerce in which the Railway Company
was engaged, or that the performance of his duties was a
matter of indifference to the conduct of that commerce.
He was "employed" in keeping the interstate track, which
was in daily use, clear and safe for interstate trains, or, as
the superintendent of the Railway Company stated it,
he was engaged with the" dozer" and shovel in making the
track safe for the operation of trains and in avoiding delay
to the commerce passing over it. Thus the case falls
plainly within the scope of the decisions which we have
cited, supra, and, regardless of what might have been said
of the fill before, it had clearly become a part of the interstate railway when the petitioner was injured, for it had
reached the stage where it required the work of men and
machinery to keep the interstate tracks clear during further construction, and the work of such men was thereafter not only concerned with, it was an intimate and integral part of, the conducting of interstate transportation
over the bridge.
We cannot doubt that the Supreme Court of Idaho fell
into error in regarding the fill as new construction so unrelated to the conduct of interstate commerce over the
bridge at the time the accident to the petitioner occurred
that the work being done by him should be regarded as
not related to or necessary to the safe conduct of that
oommerce, and the judgment of that court is, therefore,
reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

