UNITED STATES v. FERGER (NO. 2.)
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. FERGER ET AL. (NO. 2).
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 777.

Argued April 29, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

Congress has power, under the commerce clause, to forbid and punish
a conspiracy to forge and utter bills of lading for fictitious interstate
shipments.

United States v. Ferger, ante, 199.

256 Fed. Rep. 388, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Brown, with whom Mr.
Charles H. Weston was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Mr. John C. Hermann and Mr. Sherman T. McPherson were on the brief,
for defendants in error.
Mr. FrancisB. James, by leave of court, filed a brief on
behalf of the National Industrial Traffic League, as amicus
curiw.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case is disposed of by the ruling just announced
in No. 776, ante, 199. The indictment here was for conspiring to do the various acts charged in the previous case,
that is, the fraudulent fabrication and uttering of the same
fictitious bills of lading and the obtaining of money thereon
by delivering the same to the Second National Bank of
Cincinnati as collateral. The demurrer which was sus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

taned by the court below in the previous case was also
sustained as to this.
While there is a separate writ of error and a separate
record in this case, it is conceded by all parties that the
cases are in legal principle the same and that the decision
of one concludes the other. It follows, therefore, that for
the reasons stated in the previous case, No. 776, the judgment in this must be and it is reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this

opinion.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JusTicE. PITNEY dissents.

CAPITAL TRUST COMPANY, ADMINISTRATOR
OF ARNOLD, v. CALHOUN.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 368.

Argued May 2, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

For the prosecution of a claim for taking and use of private property
in the Civil War, claimant agreed to pay an attorney's fee of 50%
of the amount to be collected, to be a lien on any warrant to be issued
in payment of the claim; the bill was referred by the Senate under
ยง 14 of the Act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, 24 Stat. 505, now Jud. Code,
ยง 151, to the Court of Claims, where, after evidence and trial, favorable findings were secured, upon which Congress appropriated an
amount in payment, but with the restriction that no part thereof in
excess of 20% should be paid to or received by any attorney on account of services rendered in connection with the claim, the act
further declaring it a misdemeanor for any attorney to exact or receive for such services any sum exceeding that percentage of the
amount appropriated, any contract to the contrary notwithstanding.

