OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

taned by the court below in the previous case was also
sustained as to this.
While there is a separate writ of error and a separate
record in this case, it is conceded by all parties that the
cases are in legal principle the same and that the decision
of one concludes the other. It follows, therefore, that for
the reasons stated in the previous case, No. 776, the judgment in this must be and it is reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this

opinion.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JusTicE. PITNEY dissents.

CAPITAL TRUST COMPANY, ADMINISTRATOR
OF ARNOLD, v. CALHOUN.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 368.

Argued May 2, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

For the prosecution of a claim for taking and use of private property
in the Civil War, claimant agreed to pay an attorney's fee of 50%
of the amount to be collected, to be a lien on any warrant to be issued
in payment of the claim; the bill was referred by the Senate under
§ 14 of the Act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, 24 Stat. 505, now Jud. Code,
§ 151, to the Court of Claims, where, after evidence and trial, favorable findings were secured, upon which Congress appropriated an
amount in payment, but with the restriction that no part thereof in
excess of 20% should be paid to or received by any attorney on account of services rendered in connection with the claim, the act
further declaring it a misdemeanor for any attorney to exact or receive for such services any sum exceeding that percentage of the
amount appropriated, any contract to the contrary notwithstanding.

CAPITAL TRUST CO. v. CALHOUN.
208.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Assuming the provision for a lien not violative of Rev. Stats., § 3477,
and the contract valid when made, held, that while the attorney's
right to collect his fee from other assets of the client was not affected,
the restriction, as to the fund appropriated, was within the power
of Congress, and did not deprive him of property or of liberty of contract without due process, although subsequent to the making of
the contract and rendition of the services. P. 217.
177 Kentucky, 518, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. T. L. Edelen for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joseph W. Bailey and Mr. Charles F. Consaul for
defendant in error:
It is maintained by defendant in error that the provisions of § 4, of the Act of March 4, 1915, denying his right
to collect from his former client the full compensation
due under a valid contract, for his professional services
rendered prior to the enactment, and making him liable to
punishment for a misdemeanor in event he either compels
or accepts compliance with the terms of such valid contract, are in direct derogation of his rights under the
Fifth Amendment, in that the statute attempts to deprive
defendant in error of his property and liberty without
due process of law.
Defendant in error does not contend that, by reason
of his services rendered under his contract, he acquired
any right of property as against the United States. The
property right so acquired is against the Arnold estate.
The claim having been investigated and tried in the Court
of Claims, and an appropriation having been made by
Congress for payment of the sum awarded, and payment
having actually been made, the amount appropriated
(less the 20 per cent. received,) now in the hands of the
administrator of the Arnold estate, is chargeable with
payment of the residue of the agreed fee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

250 U. S.

This right of property was acquired and held under and
by virtue of professional services rendered, in accordance
with a valid contract, having express statutory sanction,
in no manner opposed to public policy, and was acquired
prior to the enactment in question. At least from date
of allowance of the claim by the Court of Claims, Calhoun had a chose in action, as against his client, under his
valid contract whereunder he had completed his services.
That a right of property is thus acquired by counsel has
been recognized by the courts. McGowan v. Parish, 237
U. S. 285.
The instant the act was approved by the President,
every individual claimant therein named became the
owner of the sum appropriated to him. He could, on
refusal by the Treasury officials to pay his claim, secure a
mandamus compelling payment.
United States ex rel.
Parish v. MacVeagh, 214 U. S. 124; Osborn v. Nicholson,
13 Wall. 654.
Decisions opposed to our position herein (Ralston v.
Dunaway, 123 Arkansas, 12; Calhoun v. Massie, 123 Virginia, 673) holding that counsel could acquire by their
performance of services under valid contracts, no rights
whereof they might not be divested by act of Congress
at any time prior to actual payment of the claim, overlook
the legal principle that the fee contract constituted a
chose in action, and further, that a chose in action is
property, regardless of whether or not there exists a present right to sue thereon. It is within the bounds of reason
to say that the rights of Calhoun became vested as soon
as he accepted the employment and began rendering his
services. Price v. Haeberle, 25 Mo. App. 201.
It is plain that the right becomes a vested property
right at least on the securing of a favorable report or
allowance of the claim at the hands of the Court of Claims.
Roberts v. Consaul, 24 App. D. C. 551, 559; Schooner
Zilpha, 40 Ct. Clms. 200.

CAPITAL TRUST CO. v. CALHOUN.
208.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The uncertainty as to time of payment, or even the
possible uncertainty as to whether Congress may appropriate for the entire amount reported, does not affect
the character of this vested or property right, although it
may affect its extent or value. As the claim itself constituted property, which admittedly goes to the administrator, Erwin v. United States, 97 U. S. 392, the rights of
Calhoun to his compensation must likewise be property,
like an estate in contingent remainder, or the interest of an
assured under a policy of life insurance.
If Calhoun had died prior to payment of the claim, his
property right would have passed as such to his administrator or executor, and could have been enforced. McGowan v. Parish, supra.
Legislation impairing property rights in contracts violates the Fifth Amendment.
In a certain sense it may be said that the statute here
involved does not directly impair the liberty of making a
contract, but it does in terms operate to deprive defendant
in error of his liberty of either enforcing compliance by
his client with the terms of a valid contract, or even of
accepting from an honest client the agreed compensation
in excess of a sum equal to 20% of the sum collected upon
a claim.
With reference to what the court said in Ex parte Garland, 4 Wall. 333, it may be pertinently asked of what
value is the right to appear in court and argue causes for
suitors, if, after the attorney has performed these functions of his profession, he can be deprived by act of Congress of the fruits of his labors?
The limitation of attorney fees in pension cases was
purely prospective in its operation. The theory of the
court in Frisbie v. United States, 157 U. S. 160, was that,
in granting or extending a privilege, Congress may simultaneously lay certain conditions upon persons, either
claimants or counsel, availing themselves of such privi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

lege or extension. It by no means follows, however, that
Congress may impose such conditions upon counsel, after
services have been fully rendered, under valid contracts,
and make such conditions practically retroactive in a
manner to deprive counsel of their property rights, acquired under their contracts, and enforceable against
their clients.
The limitation of counsel fees in Indian depredation
claims was sustained, in Ball v. Halsell, 161 U. S. 72, as
being a condition laid by Congress on the right to sue.
That act did not, like the one here, seek to enact such
limitation after the suit had been conducted to a termination in the Court of Claims.
In the following cases the present fee limitation has
been adjudged unconstitutional and void: Moyers v.
Memphis, 135 Tennessee, 263; Black v. O'Hara, Admr.,
175 Kentucky, 623; Lay v. Lay, 118 Mississippi, 549;
Newman v. Moyers, 47 App. D. C. 102; King v. Pons,
Admr., 77 Florida,-. In two cases, it was sustained:
Ralston v. Dunaway, 123 Arkansas, 12; Calhoun v. Massie,
123 Virginia, 673. Obviously, Congress has the power
(as distinguished from the right) to decline to appropriate
money for any purpose.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Proceeding in equity under the law of Kentucky for an
accounting from the Capital Trust Company as administrator de bonis non of the estate of Thomas N. Arnold,
deceased, and that the estate be settled and distributed.
Defendant in error Calhoun and Calhoun & Sizer, a firm
composed of C. C. Calhoun and Adrian Sizer, attorneys at
law, appeared in the proceeding and by cross-petition
prayed judgment against the trust company as such administrator for the sum of $1504.50, with interest from
July 10, 1915.

CAPITAL TRUST CO. v. CALHOUN.
208.

Opinion of the Court.

An outline of the facts is as follows: Thomas N. Arnold,
prior to his death, believing that he had a just claim
against the United States, entered into a contiact with the
firm of Calhoun & Sizer and employed it to undertake the
prosecution of the claim, and on August 1, 1905, entered
into a written contract with it by which, in consideration
of the services rendered and to be rendered by it in the
prosecution of the claim, he agreed to pay it a fee equal in
amount to 50% of whatever sum of money should be
awarded or collected on the claim, the payment of which
was made a lien upon the claim or upon any draft or evidence of payment that might be issued in liquidation
thereof.
The firm undertook the prosecution of the claim and
bills were introduced in Congress for its payment, and on
May 22, 1908, it was referred to the Court of Claims by
a resolution of the United States Senate for findings of
fact under § 14 of the Act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, 24
Stat. 505, now § 151 of the Judicial Code. About that
time the firm of Calhoun & Sizer was dissolved and subsequently Arnold died and the beneficiaries of the estate
entered into a written contract with defendant in error,
C. C. Calhoun, to continue the prosecution of the claim
and agreed to pay him 50% of the amount which might be
collected, the fee to be a lien "on any warrant" which
might "be issued in payment of said claim."
January 15, 1912, the Court of Claims made findings of
fact in the matter of the claim and stated the amount
thereof as $5015.00. The court's findings were certified
to Congress and that body, by an Act approved March 4,
1915, c. 140, 38 Stat. 962, made an appropriation for the
payment of the claim and the Secretary of the Treasury
was directed to pay it.
The act, however, contained the following provisions:
"That no part of the amount of any item appropriated
in this bill in excess of twenty per centum thereof shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

paid or delivered to or received by any agent or agents,
attorney or attorneys on account of services rendered or
advances made in connection with said claim.
"It shall be unlawful for any agent or agents, attorney
or attorneys to exact, collect, withhold or receive any sum
which in the aggregate exceeds twenty per centum of the
amount of any item appropriated in this bill on account of
services rendered or advances made in connection with
said claim, any contract to the contrary notwithstanding.
Any person violating the provisions of this Act shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $1000."
June 7, 1915, Calhoun requested the Secretary of the
Treasury to issue a warrant to him for the sum of $1003,
which he recited was to be payable to him on account of
services as attorney in the claim of the Capital Trust
Company against the United States, as appropriated for
by the act of Congress, the receipt of said warrant to be
taken and accepted as a full and final release and discharge
of any claim he had against the United States on account
of services in said claim.
Afterward, on July 1, 1915, notice was given to Calhoun,
as attorney for the claimant, that in settlement of the
claim a check was mailed him for 1003, being 20% of the
claim, and to the trust company as administrator de bonis
non of Arnold, check for $4012. A part of this money is
still in the hands of such administrator and there is no
other property belonging to the estate.
The cross petition additionally asserts the following:
No part of the fee except the sum of $1003 has been paid
and there is a balance due of $1504.50, with interest from
July, 1915, the date the money was received by the trust
company.
July 10, 1915, Calhoun presented his claim to the administrator duly proved and demanded payment, but
payment was refused. The whole of the $1504.50, there-

CAPITAL TRUST CO. v. CALHOUN.
208.

Opinion of the Court.

fore, remains unpaid, and Calhoun has a lien upon the
fund for the payment, he having accepted the check
for $1003 under protest and only on account. The
contract preceded the act of Congress and when the act
was passed such contracts were lawful and Congress was
without authority to take from him his property without
due process of law or just compensation therefor or to deprive him of his liberty of contract.
This is repeated and emphasized in various ways and
the Fifth Amendment is especially invoked as sustaining
it, and for which reasons it is alleged that the "attempted
limitation of attorney's fees by said act" was "null and
void."
A demurrer to the cross petition was overruled and the
trust company answered. A detail of its averments is not
necessary. It practically admits those of the cross-petition and pleads in defense the provisions of the act of Congress, and also § 3477, Rev. Stats.
A demurrer was sustained to the answer and judgment
rendered for Calhoun for the sum of $1504.50, with interest from July 1, 1915. The judgment was affirmed by the
Court of Appeals. The court said: "This case runs on
all fours with Black v. O'Hara's Admr., 175 Ky. 623,
where it was held that the Act of Congress approved
March 4, 1915, appropriating money for the payment of
similar claims and containing a similar provision limiting
an attorney's fee to twenty per cent. of the amount recovered, in so far as it attempted to limit the amount
of a fee theretofore earned, was unconstitutional and invalid.
"We have been urged to recede from the rule announced
in Black v. O'Hara's Admr., supra, as being unsound in
principle; but after a careful reconsideration of the reasoning by which the decision in that case is supported,
we are satisfied of its soundness, and reaffirm it."
We encounter at the outset a question upon the form

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

of the judgment. The cross-petition was presented in a
proceeding to require an accounting of the administrator
of Arnold and the petition asserted a claim and lien upon
the money in the administrator's hands received from the
United States Government. The judgment, however,
does not refer to that money or the lien upon it; it provides only that Calhoun recover of the administrator "the
sum of fifteen hundred and four 50/100 dollars with interest from July 1st, 1915, and his costs herein and may have
execution," etc.
If the judgment only establishes a claim against the
administrator to be satisfied, not out of the moneys received from the United States but from other assets of
the estate, a situation is presented which it was said in
Nutt v. Knut, 200 U. S. 12, 21, would not encounter legal
objection. In other words, the limitation in the act appropriating the money to 20% as the amount to be paid
to an agent or attorney would have no application or be
involved.
But the judgment is construed by the parties as having
more specific operation, construed as subjecting the money
received from the Government to the payment of the balance of Calhoun's fee, doubtless because the estate has no
other property. On that account it is attacked by the
trust company and defended by Calhoun. The controversy thus presented is discussed by counsel in two propositions: (1) The validity of the contract independently
of the limitation imposed by Congress upon the appropriated money; (2) the power of Congress to impose the
limitation as to that money. The latter we regard as the
main and determining proposition; the other may be
conceded, certainly so far as fixing the amount of compensation for Calhoun's services (we say Calhoun's services
as the appearance of the firm of Calhoun & Sizer was
withdrawn), and even so far as the contract provided for
a lien, if the distinction made by counsel be tenable-that

CAPITAL TRUST CO. v. CALHOUN.
208.

Opinion of the Court.

is, a distinction between a lien on the claim and a lien
"upon any draft, money, or other evidence of payment,"
to quote from the first agreement, or "on any warrant
which may be issued in payment," to quote from the
second agreement.
So far as the contract fixed the amount of fee it is within
the rule of Nutt v. Knut, supra, and, for the sake of the
argument, the lien may be conceded to be valid against
§ 3477, Rev. Stats., to the contrary if it be regarded as
having been given not upon the claim but upon its evidence, as counsel contend. It may, therefore, not only
escape the defect that was held fatal to the lien asserted
in Nutt v. Knut, but may claim the support of McGowan
v. Parish, 237 U. S. 285.
We, however, need not dwell upon the distinctions
(their soundness may be disputed) nor upon the contentions based upon them, because, as we have said, we consider the other proposition, that is, the power of Congress
over the appropriated money and the limitation of payment out of it to an agent or attorney to 20% of the claim,
to be the decisive one.
In its discussion counsel for Calhoun have gone far afield
and have invoked many propositions of broad generality-have even adduced as impliedly against the power,
if we understand counsel, the constitution of the Court of
Claims and its jurisdiction as weight in the same direction.
We can only instance some of the points of the argument. The Act of February 26, 1853, c. 80, 10 Stat. 161,
now § 823, Rev. Stats., is cited as recognizing the right of
attorneys to compensation for their services in claims
against the United States, and it is said that contracts
for such compensation have been universally sanctioned
as legal. And, further, official statements are adduced to
the effect that the Court of Claims is so constituted "that
the successful prosecution of a claim" in it "is something
more than a merely perfunctory performance on part of

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

counsel"; it is "a matter of great business hazard and risk
to counsel when done upon purely contingent fees." And
in many cases, it is further urged, no other than contingent fees are possible and to deny them is practically to
deny the right to counsel. Mr. Justice Miller is quoted
from, in Taylor v. Bemiss, 110 U, S. 42, in illustration of
such result and its injury.
The right to counsel being thus recognized, and recognized antecedently to the contract now involved, it became, counsel contend, a" pre-existing valid right," and to
take it away is to divest the right-to take it away is to deprive of property of value assured of protection by the Constitution of the United States. To sustain the contentions
a number of state cases are cited. Among them is Black
v. O'Hara,Admr., 175 Kentucky, 623, the case which the
Court of Appeals regarded as authority for its ruling in the
present case.
In a general sense there is force and much appeal in the
contentions, but we think they carry us into considerations
beyond our cognizance. Liberty in any of its exertions
and its protection by the Constitution are of concern.
The right to bind by contract and require performance
of the contract are examples of that liberty and that protection and they might have resistless force against any
interfering or impairing legislation if the contest in the
case was simply one between Calhoun and the Arnold
estate. But there are other elements to be consideredthere is the element-of the condition Congress imposed on
the subject-matter of the controversy regarded as a condition of its grant. Relief could only be had through
legislation. This was petitioned and the Senate of the
United States was prompted to refer the claim to the
Court of Claims. A defect of remedy remained even
after the court had been thus invoked and had reported
the amount and facts of the claim. Further legislation
was necessary, but it could not have been compelled; it

CAPITAL TRUST CO. v. CALHOUN.
208.

Opinion of the Court.

was optional, not compulsory; and it would seem to require no argument to convince that the terms of its enactment must be taken as expressed and the relief it granted
accepted with the condition imposed upon it. Indeed,
the proposition is confused by its discussion. And it is
certainly difficult to deal with the distinction that counsel
make between preexisting and prospective transactions.
The right is absolute and universal and necessarily must
be to have any strength at all. It is only arbitrary in the
sense that many of the faculties of government are. And
we have seen there was exertion of one of its powers in the
present case-not, however, to interfere with or lessen
the asserted obligation of the contract between Arnold
and Calhoun, but to limit only the application of the
money gratuitously appropriated in the payment of attorneys' fees. The contention is that this cannot be done,
or, to put it another way, that the appropriation, though
it could not be compelled, was yet subservient to the contract of Calhoun (and, we may interject, if for 50%, for
any per cent. or terms) and that he was entitled to all the
contract provided, denuded of the condition imposed upon
the appropriation.
The contention has no legal basis, and it may be said it
has no equitable one. Neither the justice nor the policy
of what sovereignty may do or omit to do can be judged
from partial views or particular instances. It is easy to
conceive what difficulties beset and what circumstances
had to be considered in legislating upon such claims. Definite dispositions were matters of reflection and, it may be,
experience-imposition was to be protected against as
well as just claims provided for, and, considering claimants
and their attorneys in the circumstances, it may have
seemed to Congress that the limitation imposed was fully
justified, that 20% of the amounts appropriated would be a
proper adjustment between them. We are not concerned,
however, to accuse or defend. Whatever might have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

the moving considerations, the power exercised must be
sustained. Frisbie v. United States, 157 U. S. 160; Ball v.
Halsell, 161 U. S. 72.
The first case dealt with conditions upon pension legislation; the second concerned a claim against the United
States on account of Indian depredations. It is, therefore,
contended that they are unlike Calhoun's contract with
Arnold and that their principle is not applicable. We
think otherwise. The legislation passed on was sustained
as within the power of government.
We conclude, therefore, that Calhoun's claim for a balance due as fees cannot be paid out of the moneys appropriated by Congress and now in the hands of the administrator de bonis non, or recognized as having any validity
as against that fund. Beyond this we need not go.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the

decision.

DANA, INDIVIDUALLY, v. DANA, EXECUTOR OF
DANA, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 276.

Argued March 24, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

A judgment holding certain shares of such a character as to come within
the general succession tax of the State, though the tax was opposed
as reaching real property outside of the State, held not to involve
the validity of the tax statute or of an authority exercised under the
State, and hence not to be reviewable by writ of error under Jud.
Code, § 237, as amended in 1916.
Writ of error to review 227 Massachusetts, 562, dismissed.

