BENEDICT v. CITY OF NEW YORK.
Syllabus.

308.

ciation in the mill properties was clearly correct. If the
jury believed as contended that defendants' breach of
contract, by depriving those properties of a timber supply,
reduced their value, the plaintiff's loss in that respect was
the whole of the reduced value. On the other hand, if the
market value of the timber lands increased, the plaintiff's
loss from being deprived of the gain from this source was,
as the court ruled, only five-eighteenths of that gain.
There was no other objection taken which requires us to
consider whether the rulings as to damages were in other
respects proper.
The judgment as to P. D. Camp and P. R. Camp is
affirmed and as to John M. Camp is reversed and the case
as so modified is remanded to the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Virginia with
directions to dismiss the suit as to John M. Camp.
Modified and affirmed.

BENEDICT v. CITY OF NEW YORK
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 315.

Argued April 22, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

A suit against a city to enforce, as upon an express trust, an accounting
of an improvement fund and liability for alleged breaches of trust
in failing properly to conduct the sales of lands assessed for benefits and properly to apply the proceeds of such sales to the satisfaction of public improvement certificates, said suit not having been
instituted until more than 17 years after definite repudiation of
the alleged trust duties, and the efforts on behalf of the plaintiff
having been meanwhile confined to the obtaining of a restraining
order, which was never observed, and to the presentation of divers

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

memorials and offers of compromise to the city authorities, held
barred by laches, such a cause of action, in New York, being subject, if not to the six-year statute of limitations (Code Civ. Pro.,
§ 382), then to the ten-year statute (id., § 388) governing bills for
relief in cases of trust not cognizable by courts of common law.
Pp. 325-327.
In case of an express trust, the statute begins to run when the trust is
repudiated. Id.
Federal courts, in equity, are not bound by state statutes of limitations,
but are ordinarily guided by them in determining their action on
stale claims. Id.
247 Fed. Rep. 758, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Leon Abbett, with whom Mr. Charles K. Allen was
on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Terence Farley, with whom Mr. William P. Burr
and Mr. George P. Nicholson were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JusncE BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the
court.
In 1874 commissioners theretofore appointed by special
act (Laws N. Y. 1871, c. 765) to improve the streets of
Long Island City were directed to improve a particular
district. Laws N. Y. 1874, c. 326. The act provided
that the cost of the improvement should be assessed upon
the land benefited and created a lien upon the land for
the assessment and interest; but it declared that no sale
for failure to pay the assessment could be made before
the expiration of ten years after filing of the assessment
roll. The improvement was to be paid for by delivering
to the contractors interest-bearing certificates of indebtedness equal, at par, to the expense of the work and
materials furnished.,
These certificates did not provide

BENEDICT v. CITY OF NEW YORK.

321.

Opinion of the Court.

for a personal obligation on the part of the city or the
district. They were receivable in payment of assessments
at par and interest and were payable in cash only out of
moneys to be derived from the assessments, which the
city treasurer was directed to keep as an Improvement
Fund separate from all other funds. The statute further
provided that upon the completion of the sales for nonpayment of assessments "all the certificates issued by the
said commissioners shall be paid off, and if there be any
excess to the credit of said improvement fund . . . it
shall be paid into the city treasury." By an amendment
passed June 11, 1879 (Laws N. Y. 1879, c. 501), it was
provided that, under certain circumstances, it was the
duty of the officer making sale of land for non-payment
of assessment to receive, in payment of the purchase
price, certificates at par and interest.
Certificates were issued to the amount of $1,847,500.
A large portion of the assessments levied were left unpaid by the land owners; and it became necessary to
sell the properties. Sales for non-payment of assessments
were made in 1888. The purchase price was paid in
certificates at par and interest up to the amount of the
assessments, the interest and the excess, if any, being
paid in cash. In 1892 and 1893 sales of land were made
at much less than the amounts of the assessment. Here
also bidders were permitted to pay the purchase price in
certificates at par and interest. Likewise the owners of
lots sold were permitted to redeem lots upon paying the
amount of the bid and accrued charges by certificates at
par and interest. After all the land had been disposed
of and the Improvement Fund exhausted there remained
and are now outstanding unpaid certificates aggregating
about $300,000.
Prior to June 11, 1879, Benedict acquired certificates
to the amount of $8000 which he has held ever since, and
on which the principal and interest are unpaid. In July,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

1910, suing on behalf of himself and others similarly
situated, he brought this suit in the Circuit (now District)
Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York to enforce, as upon an express trust, an accounting of the Improvement Fund and liability for
alleged breaches of trust. The contention is that Long
Island City became trustee of the lien on the several lots
for the benefit of the certificate holders; and the alleged
breaches of trust relied upon are in substance that,
through its treasurer and in spite of the protest, the city
permitted and authorized sales of land for less than the assessment in violation of the Act of 1874; that instead of
cancelling certificates received in payment of assessments
and of the purchase price at sales, it reissued the same;
and that even where sales had been made for less than
the amount of the assessments it allowed redemption
from sales in certificates at par and interest. The City
of New York is made defendant on the ground that in
1898 Long Island City was merged into it by the Greater
New York Act and that the consolidated corporation
assumed the obligations and liabilities of the constituent
municipalities. Laws N. Y. 1897, c. 378.
Protest was made by plaintiff at time of sales against
the course pursued by the treasurer, but he justified the action complained of, relying upon the Act of 1874 and c. 501
of the Laws of 1879 and c. 656 of the Laws of 1886. Writs
of mandamus had previously been issued compelling him
to receive certificates at par and interest even in payment
for the redemption of land sold for non-payment of assessments. People ex rel. Ryan v. Bleckwenn 8 N. Y.
Supp. 638; People ex rel. Oakley v. Bleckwenn, 13 N. Y.
Supp. 487; People ex rel. Oakley v. Bleckwenn, 126 N. Y.
310. But plaintiff contended that, in view of § 23 of
Title VI of c. 461 of the Laws of 1871, if the Acts of 1879
and 1886 were construed as authorizing the action of
which he complains, they impair, in violation of the

BENEDICT v. CITY OF NEW YORK.
321.

Opinion of the Court.

Federal Constitution, the obligation of contracts previously entered into with certificate holders. The case
was fully heard in the District Court on evidence, and
several distinct defenses were relied upon. The city
insisted, among other things, that the statutory lien did
not impose a statutory trust upon it; that the persons
who acted were not its agents, but independent officers,
agents of the State; that the specific provision of the
statute relied upon by plaintiff did not constitute terms
of the contract but related merely to the remedy; and
that the later legislation introduced, at most, permissible
changes of remedy. The court, without passing upon
these questions, entered a decree dismissing the bill on
the ground that the statute of limitations and laches
constituted a complete defense.
235 Fed. Rep. 258.
This decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
on the same grounds. 247 Fed. Rep. 758. Benedict is a
citizen of Connecticut; but as he invoked the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court not only on the ground of diversity
of citizenship but also because of rights asserted under
the Federal Constitution, his further appeal to this court
was permissible. Vicksburg v. Henson, 231 U. S. 259,
267-268.
The whole case is here for review; but we find it unnecessary to decide most of 'the questions presented;
because we are of opinion that the lower courts did not
err in holding that the suit was barred by laches. None
of the acts relied upon here as constituting breaches of
trust occurred later than the years 1892 and 1893. Before the principal action complained of was taken, the
city treasurer publicly announced his purpose to pursue
the course complained of, which he asserted was in accordance with law. Plaintiff was represented at the sales
by an agent who protested there orally and elsewhere in
writing against the treasurer's declared purpose and
against specific acts now complained of, asserting then

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

as now that the course pursued was illegal. We have
here a definite repudiation of the alleged trust duties
more than 17 years before the institution of this suit.
And there are no circumstances which excuse the delay.
What occurred in the interval, so far as appears, was this:
(a) In June, 1893, Benedict commenced in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
New York a suit in equity to restrain the treasurer from
receiving certificates from property owners when redeeming their properties from assessment sales, made to
the complainant, and from marking upon the books as
paid any assessment upon such property when it was
sold for less than the amount of the assessment. It seems
that hearing on the motion was adjourned to a later
date, and that a restraining order issued which the plaintiff alleges was never observed. It is not shown that any
other proceeding was ever taken in the suit.
(b) On May 9, 1904 (at whose instance does not clearly
appear), the legislature enacted a statute (Laws N. Y.
1904, c. 686) entitled "an Act to authorize the comptroller and corporation counsel of the city of New York on
behalf of said city to compromise and settle with property
owners interested, certain claims for taxes, assessments
and sales for the same, and for or on account of evidences
of indebtedness issued on account of local improvements
in the territory formerly included within the boundaries
of Long Island City."
(c) On February 21, 1905, plaintiff filed with the comptroller of the City of New York an offer to sell to the city
by way of compromise certificates held.
(d) On May 26, 1909, plaintiff's present counsel, acting
on behalf of the holders of two hundred and eighty-three
certificates, presented to the comptroller a memorial and
statement of facts, in which he requested "that provision
should be made in some way for the payment of the
amount due" on the certificates.

BENEDICT v. CITY OF NEW YORK.
321.

Opinion of the Court.

(e) Under date of March 19, 1910, plaintiff presented
to the comptroller a similar memorial which he requested
should be submitted for determination to the board of
estimate and apportionment, in view of the fact that
chapter 601 of the Laws of New York of 1907 provided
that the comptroller may do so where he believes that,
for any reason, a claim against the city is not valid
legally, but in equity, justice, and fairness the same should
be paid, the city having been benefited by the acts performed and the claim not being barred by the statute of
limitations.
(f) On April 26, 1910, a formal request was made upon
the deputy comptroller.
Under the law of New York the alleged cause of action
would have been subject, if not to the six year statute of
limitations, (New York Code of Civil Procedure, § 382),
then to the ten year statute of limitations, (New York
Code of Civil Procedure, § 388), governing bills for relief
in case of the existence of a trust not cognizable by the
courts of common law. Clarke v. Boorman's Executors,
18 Wall. 493. If the Act of 1874 created an express trust,
the statute of limitations would not begin to run until
there had been a repudiation of the trust. New Orleans
v. Warner, 175 U. S. 120, 130. Here there was an open
repudiation of the trust duties which the plaintiff now
seeks to enforce. And 17 years were allowed to elapse
after that repudiation before this suit was begun and more
than ten years before any attempt was made to secure
some settlement by negotiation; and there clearly was
no waiver of the statute. While it is true that federal
courts sitting in equity are not bound by state statutes of
limitations (Kirby v. Lake Shore & Michigan Southern
Railroad, 120 U. S. 130), they are, under ordinary circumstances, guided by them in determining their action
on stale claims. Godden v. Kimmell, 99 U. S. 201, 210;
Philippi v. Philippe, 115 U. S. 151; Pearsallv. Smith, 149

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

U. S. 231; Alsop v. Riker, 155 U. S. 448. Compare Sullivan
v. Portland& Kennebec R. R. Co., 94 U. S. 806, 811. Between 1892 and 1905 plaintiff did nothing to enforce his
alleged rights except to commence in 1893 a suit which
he did not prosecute. His lack of diligence is wholly
unexcused; and both the nature of the claim and the
situation of the parties was such as to call for diligence.
The lower courts did not err in sustaining the defense of
laches.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. BABCOCK.
UNITED STATES v. HAYDEN.
APPEALS FROM TRY, COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 708, 915. Argued April 15, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.
The Act of March 3, 1885, c. 335, 23 Stat. 350, authorizing payment,
after examination and determination by the accounting officers of
the Treasury, of claims for property belonging to officers and enlisted men and lost or destroyed in the military service under certain
circumstances, provides "that any claim which shall be presented
and acted on under authority of this act shall be held as finally
determined, and shall never thereafter be reopened or considered."
Held, that this proviso clearly confers exclusive and final jurisdiction on the Treasury Department, so that claims under the act are
not within the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims. P. 331. United
States v. Laughlin, 249 U. S. 440, distinguished.
Under the Acts of January 9, 1883, c. 15, 22 Stat. 401, and August 13,
1888, c. 868, 25 Stat. 437, the right to present claims for the loss,
etc., of horses in the military service, under § 3482, Rev. Stats.,
as amended by the Act of June 22, 1874, c. 395, 18 Stat. 193, expired
in 1891. Id.
53 Ct. Chms. 629; 54 id. 1, reversed.

