ARKANSAS v. MISSISSIPPI.
33.

Syllabus.

After the act was passed an application was made on
September 7, 1916, to the Secretary of the Treasury for
repayment of the residue of the erroneously collected tax.
It was rejected on October 30, 1916, on the mistaken
ground that the judgment against the Collector finished
the matter. This suit was brought on January 23, 1917,
and so was within the six years allowed by Rev. Stats.,
ยง 1069, for suits in the Court of Claims. The Act of 1912,
like that of 1902, created rights where they had not existed
before, United States v. Hvoslef, 237 U. S. 1, 12, 13, and
the claimant's rights are not barred. See further James v.
Hicks, 110 U. S. 272.
Judgment reversed.

STATE OF ARKANSAS v. STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
IN EQUITY.
No. 7, Original. Argued March 3, 4, 1919.-Decided March 19, 1919.
Under Equity Rule 31, a replication held not required in order to put
in issue the allegations of the answer. P. 41.
The act admitting Mississippi as a State describes the boundary as
beginning "on the river Mississippi" and, after other courses, extending again "to the Mississippi river, thence up the same to the
beginning"; the act admitting Arkansas describes the boundary
as "beginning in the middle of the main channel of the Mississippi,"
thence along other courses, and back "to the middle of the main
channel of the Mississippi river; thence up the middle of the main
channel of the said river to the . . . point of beginning."
Held, that the boundary between the two States as fixed by the acts
was the middle of the main channel of navigation, and not a line
equidistant from the banks of the river. P. 43. Arkansas v. Tennessee, 246 U. S. 158.
It does not appear that any specific agreement was entered into between the States of Mississippi and Arkansas, under the Joint
Resolution of Congress of January 26, 1909, 35 Stat. 1161, author-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

izing an agreement or compact "to fix the boundary line between
said States, where the Mississippi River now, or formerly, formed
the said boundary line," and to make mutual cessions of lands
separated by changes in the river, settle jurisdiction as to offenses
on the river, etc. P. 43.
The court finds no occasion in the constitutions, laws or decisions of
the two States, or in acquiescence, and practices of the inhabitants
of the disputed territory in recognition of another boundary, to
depart from the principle which makes equality of navigation the
controlling consideration in fixing the boundary between States
separated by a navigable stream. P. 44.
In case of an avulsion, the boundary line is to be fixed at the middle
of the main channel of navigation as it was just previous to the
avulsion. P. 45.
The location of the disputed line will be left in the first instance to
commissioners to be appointed by the court upon suggestions of
counsel, with power to take further proofs as may be authorized
by the interlocutory decree to be entered herein. P. 47.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Herbert Pope, with whom Mr. John D. Arbuckle,

Attorney General of the State of Arkansas, Mr. John M.
Moore and Mr. Albert M. Kales were on the brief, for

plaintiff.
Mr. Garner W. Green, with whom Mr. Ross A. Collins,

Attorney General of the State of Mississippi, Mr. Gerald
Fitzgerald, Mr. George F. Maynard and Mr. Marcellus

Green were on the brief, for defendant.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought to determine a portion of the
boundary line between the States of Arkansas and Mississippi. It appears that at the place in dispute the Mississippi River formerly had its course from Friar's Point in
a southwesterly direction, then made a turn to the south,
flowing in a southerly direction, then a turn towards the

ARKANSAS v. MISSISSIPPI.
39.

Opinion of the Court.

west in the shape of a half moon, then a sharp turn to
the north and flowing northerly, and thence westerly,
making a bend in the river in the shape of a horseshoe,
which was known as Horseshoe Bend. It is averred in
the bill, that in 1848 the river suddenly left its course
and ran westerly across the points of the bend, cutting
off a tract of land which has become known as Horseshoe Island. The answer avers that this avulsion occurred in 1842; but the exact date is immaterial. That it
did occur is clearly established, and it is generally spoken
of in the testimony as happening in 1848. We may say
preliminarily that we find no substance in the contention
of the respondent that the allegations of the answer must
be taken as true for want of replication. Under new
Equity Rule 31 in a case of this character no replication
is required in order to make the issues.
The State of Arkansas contends that the old course of
the river before the avulsion was within a body of water
now known as Horseshoe Lake or Old River, a body of
water of considerable length and depth. The State of
Mississippi contends that the old river ran through a body
of water still remaining, but considerably further to the
north, and known as Dustin Pond, and that before the
avulsion the course of the river on the upper side of the
Bend was considerably to the westward of the course
claimed by Arkansas, and ran where now there is a slough
not far from the middle of Horseshoe Island. These diverse claims are illustrated by an examination of the map,
exhibit A, attached to the bill.
As we view the case it is practically controlled by the
decision of this court in Arkansas v. Tennessee, 246 U. S.
158. In view of that decision we are relieved of the necessity of a discussion in detail of much that is urged upon
our attention now. Arkansas was admitted to the Union
June 23, 1836 (5 Stat. 50, 51) by an act of Congress which
as to its boundaries provided:

OCTOBER, TERM, 19TR
Opinion of the Cort,.

250 U S

"Beginning in the middle of the main channel of the
Mississippi river, on the parallel of thirty-six degrees
north latitude, running from thence west, with the said
parallel of latitude, to the Saint Francis river, thence up
the middle of the main channel of said river to the parallel of thirty-six degrees thirty minutes north; from thence'
west to the southwest corner of the State of Missouri;
and from thence to be bounded on the west, to the north
bank of Red river, by the lines described in the first article
of the treaty between the United States and the Cherokee
nation of Indians west of the Mississippi, made and concluded at the city of Washington, on the 26th day of
May, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and twenty-eight; and to be bounded on the south side
of Red river by the Mexican boundary line, to the northwest corner of the State of Louisiana; thence east with
the Louisiana State line, to the middle of the main channel
of the Mississippi river; thence up the middle of the main
channel of the said river to the thirty-sixth degree of north
latitude, the point of beginning."
Mississippi had previously been admitted to the Union
by an act of Congress April 3, 1818, (3 Stat. 348), which
provided:
"Beginning on the river Mississippi at the point where
the southern boundary line of the state of Tennessee
strikes the same, thence east along the said boundary
line to the Tennessee river, thence up the same to the
mouth of Bear Creek, thence by a direct line to the northwest corner of the county of Washington [Alabama], thence
due south to the Gulf of Mexico, thence westwardly,
including all the islands within six leagues of the shore,
to the most eastern junction of Pearl river with Lake
Borgne, thence up said river to the thirty-first degree of
north latitude, thence west along the said degree of latitude to the Mississippi river, thence up the same to the
beginning."

ARKANSAS v. MISSISSIPPI.
39.

Opinion of the Court.

It will be observed that the language of the Mississippi
act, so far as now important to consider, fixes the boundary
upon the Mississippi River as "up the same to the beginning," and the language of the Arkansas act is: "beginning
in the middle of the main channel of the Mississippi
river .
.
thence east, with the Louisiana State line,
to the middle of the main channel of the Mississippi river,
thence up the middle of the main channel of the said
river to the thirty-sixth degree of north latitude, the point
of beginning."
The State of Arkansas contends that these acts of Congress fix the middle of the channel of navigation as it
existed before the avulsion as the boundary line between
the States. By the State of Mississippi it is contended
that the boundary line is a line equidistant from the well
defined banks of the river. Language to the same effect
as that contained in the acts of admission now before us
was before this court in the case of Arkansas v. Tennessee,
supra, and in that case the subject was considered, and
the meaning of the Arkansas act, and similar language
in the act admitting the State of Tennessee, was interpreted. The rule laid down in Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S.1,
was followed, and it was held that where the States of
the Union are separated by boundary lines described as
"a line drawn along the middle of the river," or as "the
middle of the main channel of the river," the boundary
must be fixed at the middle of the main navigable channel,
and not along the line equidistant between the banks.
We regard that decision as settling the law, and see no
reason to depart from it in this instance.
It is urgently insisted that the laws and decisions of
Arkansas and Mississippi are to the contrary, and our
attention is called to Joint Resolution of Congress of 1909,
35 Stat. 1161, which provides:
"That the consent of the Congress of the United States
is hereby given to the States of Mississippi and Arkansas

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

to enter into such agreement or compact as they may deem
desirable or necessary, not in conflict with the Constitution
of the United States, or any law thereof, to fix the boundary line between said States, where the Mississippi River
now, or formerly, formed the said boundary line and to
cede respectively each to the other such tracts or parcels of
the territory of each State as may have become separated
from the main body thereof by changes in the course or
channel of the Mississippi River and also to adjudge and
settle the jurisdiction to be exercised by said States, respectively, over offences arising out of the violation of the laws
of said States upon the waters of the Mississippi River."
Approved January 26, 1909.
No specific agreement appears to have been entered
into under this act; but it is insisted that Arkansas
and Mississippi by their respective constitutions have
fixed the boundary line, as it is now claimed to be
by the State of Mississippi, and that such boundary
line has become the true boundary of the States irrespective of the decision of this court in Iowa v. Illinois,
supra, followed in Arkansas v. Tennessee, supra. We
have examined the constitutions and decisions of the
respective States, and find nothing in them to change
the conclusions reached by this court in determining the
question of boundary between States. A similar contention was made in Arkansas v. Tennessee as to the
effect of the Arkansas and Tennessee legislation and decisions, and the contention that the local law and decisions
controlled in a case where the interstate boundary was
required to be fixed, under circumstances very similar to
those here presented, was rejected. In that case the
Arkansas cases, which are now insisted upon as authority
for the respondent's contention, were fully reviewed. The
Mississippi cases called to our attention, of which the
leading one seems to be The Steamboat Magnolia v. Marshall, 39 Mississippi, 109, as well as the legislation of the

ARKANSAS v. MISSISSIPPI.
39.

Opinion of the Court.

State, seem to sustain the claim that local jurisdiction
and right of soil to the middle of the river, is fixed by a
line equidistant from the banks. But whatever may be
the effect of these decisions upon local rights of property
or the administration of the criminal laws of the State,
when the question becomes one of fixing the boundary
between States separated by a navigable stream, it was
specifically held in Iowa v. Illinois, supra, followed in
later cases, that the controlling consideration is that
which preserves to each State equality in the navigation
of the river, and that in such instances the boundary
line is the middle of the main navigable channel of the
river. In Arkansas v. Tennessee, supra, p. 171, we said:
"The rule thus adopted, [that declared in Iowa v. Illinois]
known as the rule of the ' thalweg,' has been treated as set
at rest by that decision. Louisiana v. Mississippi, 202
IT. S. 1, 49; Washington v. Oregon, 211 U. S. 127, 134;
214 U. S. 205, 215. The argument submitted in behalf
of the defendant State in the case at bar, including a
reference to the notable recent decision of its Supreme
Court in State v. Muncie Pulp Co. (1907), 119 Tennessee,
47, has failed to convince us that this rule ought now,
after the lapse of twenty-five years, to be departed from."
We are unable to find occasion to depart from this rule
because of long acquiescence in enactments and decisions,
and the practices of the inhabitants of the disputed territory in recognition of a boundary, which have been given
weight in a number of our cases where the true boundary
line was difficult to ascertain. (See Arkansas v. Tennessee,
supra, and the cases cited at p. 172.)
This record presents a clear case of a change in the
course of the river by avulsion, and the applicable rule
established in this court, and repeatedly enforced, requires the boundary line to be fixed at the middle of the
channel of navigation as it existed just previous to the
avulsion. The location and determination of such bound-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

ary is a matter which we shall leave in the first instance
to a commission of three competent persons to be named
by the court upon suggestion of counsel, as was done in
Arkansas v. Tennessee. See 247 U. S. 461. This commission will have before it the record in this case, and
such further proofs as it may be authorized to receive
by an interlocutory decree to be entered in the case.
Counsel may prepare and submit the form of such decree.

BALL ENGINEERING COMPANY v. J. G. WHITE
& COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 227. Argued March 13, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.
A provision in a construction contract that in case of annulment
"the United States all have the right to take possession of, wherever
they may be, and to retain all materials, tools, buildings, tramways, cars, etc., or any part or parts of same prepared for use or in
use in the prosecution of the work,

.

.

.

under purchase, at

a valuation to be determined by the Engineer Officer in charge,"
held not applicable, in invitum, to property belonging to, and
which had been used in the construction by, a third party. P. 54.
Upon annulment of a construction contract, the Government retained
certain property, on the site, which belonged to a third party who
had been doing the work, and, with knowledge of his claim and
without his consent, valued it, credited the defaulting contractor
accordingly, and leased or disposed of it to a new contractor, at
the latter's request, for the completion of the work, upon the understanding that the United States did not undertake to transfer title,
nor guarantee peaceable possession, etc., and would not be responsible for the expense or cost of any action against the new contractor
nor subject itself to any claim on account of the seizure. Held,
that no contractual liability could be implied against the United

