OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

state decree the railroad filed a supplemental bill alleging
that the telegraph company had no longer any rights
except under the condemnation proceedings but that it
still was using its old line. The telegraph company pleaded
in reply an injunction, mentioned above, granted by
another Court of the United States, forbidding the railroad to interrupt the telegraph in the use of its wires upon
the railroad's right of way, the declared purpose being
to preserve the status quo for a certain time, or until the
condemnation could be carried out. 207 Fed. Rep. 1, 5.
If for any reason the supplemental bill does not fall with
the bill this earlier action in the Sixth Circuit (while it
stands, see 252 Fed. Rep. 29,) properly was regarded as
precluding contrary action in the Fifth.
Decrees affirmed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. MINDS,
SURVIVING AND LIQUIDATING PARTNER OF
MINDS ET AL., LATELY TRADING AS BULAH
COAL COMPANY.
PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. MINDS
ET AL., TRADING AS BULAH COAL COMPANY.
ER OR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
Nos. 293, 294.

Argued April 23, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.

In actions upon two closely related reparation orders, held that a mistake in the declarations transposing the awards, first discovered by
the District Court near the close of the trial, was subject to correction by amendment in that court's discretion. P. 370.
Where a railroad company, guilty of unlawful discrimination in car
distribution, for years contested the claims of the injured shippers,

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. MINDS.
368.

Opinion of the Court.

and offered no payment of awards for damages and interest made by
the Interstate Commerce Commission, it is not erroneous in actions
upon the awards to permit the jury to allow interest in its verdicts,
even though the shippers' claims were excessive. P. 370.
In actions on reparation orders, held that the District Court did not
abuse its discretion in fixing counsel fees, or commit error in its
charge as to the cost of producing coal, as an element in the damages.
P. 371.
In such an action, where there was expert evidence tending to prove
(as in PennsylvaniaR. R. Co. v. Jacoby & Co., 242 U. S. 89), that the
Commission's award was based upon tables of car distribution which
if followed in practice would have given the complaining shippers
the illegal preference of which they complained, held that the railroad was entitled to an instruction that the award should be disregarded if the Commission followed such tables; and that refusal
of its request for such instruction would be substantial error notwithstanding there was other evidence as to the damages and the
verdict was much less than the award. Id.
Where it is obvious from remarks of the trial judge at the close of his
charge that he has inadvertently overlooked one of several requests
to charge and opportunity is expressly given to suggest the omission,
failure to avail of the opportunity waives the error in not granting
the request; a general exception to refusals to charge as requested
will not suffice. P. 373.
244 Fed. Rep. 53, affirmed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Francis I. Gowen and Mr. Frederic D. McKenney,
with whom Mr. Henry Wolf Bikl6 was on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. James A. Gleason, with whom Mr. George M. Roads,
Mr. H. W. Moore and Mr. John H. Minds were on the

brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JusTrIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases were tried together in the courts below and
may be considered and disposed of in like manner here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

They were brought upon reparation orders made by the
Interstate Commerce Commission based upon alleged
discrimination against the plaintiffs in car distribution.
Two periods were in controversy. In No. 293 from July
1, 1902, to October 1, 1904; in No. 294 from October 1,
1904, to June 30, 1907. Verdicts and judgments were recovered in both cases against the Company. The judgments were affirmed in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
244 Fed. Rep. 53.
During the first period James H. Minds and William
J. Matz, trading as Bulah Coal Company, operated the
mine alleged to have been subjected to unlawful discrimination. During the second period a partnership, composed of Minds and the widow of Matz, trading under the
same name, operated the mine. Two proceedings for
reparation were brought before the Interstate Commerce
Commission. In the first an order of reparation in the
sum of $18,591.48 was awarded, with interest thereon at
the rate of 6% per annum from June 28, 1907. For the
second period an award was made in the sum of $31,715.57
with 6% interest from the same date. The verdicts of
the jury were, for the first period, $16,092.92, for the
second period $33,618.37.
(1) The plaintiff in error complains of the allowance
of an amendment correcting a mistake in the declarations
transposing the awards. The mistake was first noticed
by the court near the close of the trial. This amendment
was so obviously just and within the court's discretion
that we need only say that we think no error was committed in allowing it.
(2) It is insisted that the court erred in allowing the
jury to add interest not exceeding 6% on the damages
found; this upon the theory that the recoveries were below
the amounts claimed before the Commission which were
so large as to be wholly unfair. But the defendants in
error were entitled to full compensation for the damages

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. MINDS.
368.

Opinion of the Court.

sustained as the result of the wrongful discrimination
against them. (ยง 8 of the Act to Regulate Commerce.)
The Commission allowed interest as part of its award, and
the District Court charged the jury that it might do so
in making up its verdicts. We see no error in this. For
years these claims have been contested, the Company
never offered any payment of the awards, and unless
interest is to be allowed there seems to be no means of
making the claimants whole for the wrongs sustained by
violations of the statute.
(3) It is contended that the court erred in fixing counsel fees, as only those are allowable which compensate for
court services. Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 236
U. S. 412. But we are not prepared to say that the court
abused its discretion in fixing the fees. There is nothing
to warrant our interference with the judgments in this
respect.
(4) Error is alleged in the charge as to the cost of producing the coal which entered into the computation of
damages. Upon this point there was a conflict in the testimony, and an examination of the charge satisfies us that
the question was fully and fairly left to the jury.
(5) We come to the final and most serious complaint
of error in the proceedings. As to the first period there was
no contest over the amount of tonnage which the plaintiffs could have shipped had the cars been fairly distributed during that period. As to the second period, the
contention is that there was testimony tending to show
that the Commission awarded reparation under a rule
which violated its own final determination of the correct
rule, in the same manner as was shown in Pennsylvania
R. R. Co. v. Jacoby & Co., 242 U. S. 89, resulting in the
reversal of the judgment in that case. There is no showing that the court gave a wrong rule in this respect in its
charge to the jury. But here as in the Jacoby Case, the
Company called an expert witness who testified that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

tables in a blue-print, put in evidence by the complainants
before the Commission, were made upon a basis of car
distribution, which, if applied to complainants, would
result, as pointed out in the Jacoby Case, in giving to them
the wrongful preference which had been awarded to favored companies. The witness testified that a computation showed that the Commission, in making its award,
had followed this erroneous table and had used its percentages as the basis of its award. The record discloses
that the Company asked eighteen special points to be
given in charge to the jury; in two of which it requested
charges which were based on this witness' testimony as to
the inaccuracy of the tables, asking the court in substance
to say to the jury that, if the Commission used such tables
in making its computation, the awards were on a wrong
basis and should be disregarded.
The Circuit Court of Appeals answered this contention
by distinguishing the Jacoby Case-in that the recovery
in that case was based wholly upon the award of the Commission and in precisely the same amount, whereas, in
this case there was other testimony as to the damages, and
the jury awarded a recovery in a sum much less than the
amount fixed by the Commission. If these were all
the grounds of distinction between this and the Jacoby
Case we should be constrained to hold that the failure to
give the Company's special requests, based on the expert's
testimony, was substantial error, requiring a reversal,
but at the close of his charge the judge said:
"I think I have gone over the subject matter of all the
different points submitted to me. So far as they are affirmed in the general charge, they are affirmed; and so
far as not affirmed in the general charge, they are disaffirmed, and counsel if they choose may call my attention
to any specific point which they would like to have specifically answered."
The court in its charge had not adverted to the effect

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. MINDS.
368.

Opinion of the Court.

to be given to the testimony of the defendant's expert.
The observations, just referred to, called upon counsel
to direct the court's attention to points omitted. The
plaintiffs' counsel called the court's attention to some
things. Counsel for the Company said:
"In the first period we do not dispute the lost tonnage,
only the cost. In the second period we dispute the correctness both of plaintiffs' cost figures and also the tonnage.
We ask that the court so charge."
The Court responded: "Now, gentlemen, I want to
make that clear. In the first period there is no question
of the tonnage raised. The defendant concedes the
amount of the tonnage, and the difference is all over the
cost. So you need not trouble yourselves there with any
other question than the cost question. In the second
period the claim is questioned in two respects, the cost,
just as it is in the first period, and the tonnage is also
questioned. So of course you cannot determine the
amount of damage until you have settled both of those
questions.
"I understand that the parties have agreed that their
respective statements of their positions may be sent out
in order to save the jury the labor of making calculations?
Is that correct?"
Counsel for the plaintiffs and for the Company each
answered, "Yes, sir."
The Court: "So, gentlemen, you will have the benefit
of the figuring of the parties on each side, which will present their respective views. You will take the case and
dispose of it . ..
"Counsel for the defendant excepted to the refusal
of the learned trial judge to charge as requested by them
in such points as were not affirmed. (Exception noted
for defendant by direction of the court.)"
We have then this situation: After a charge, dealing
with the general questions in the case, with numerous

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

special requests to charge "points," as they are called, the
presiding judge expressed the view that he thought he
had gone over the subjects embraced in the requests submitted. That he had omitted some is not surprising, for
the court was dealing with an exceedingly difficult and
complicated situation of car distribution, concerning which
the Interstate Commerce Commission, the body primarily
entrusted with the determination of such matters, had
long deliberated before announcing the rule upon which
it finally acted and made its award in the series of cases
of which those now before us are a part. Upon the invitation of the trial judge the Company's counsel made
the request which we have quoted, and the judge at once
complied with it, and charged, as counsel desired, upon
that particular subject, adding that he understood that
the parties had agreed that the respective statements of
their positions might go to the jury to save it the labor of
making calculations. In this way the parties got before
the jury the calculations showing their respective claims.
This may have been and probably was the reason for the
failure of counsel to call attention to the omission to answer the particular points requested concerning the effect
to be given to the testimony of the defendant's witness,
if credited by the jury. Apparently counsel were satisfied
when the jury had before it the table showing the basis
of their claims in the case. But, whatever the reason,
the court after a careful and painstaking charge, thinking
he had answered the "points" of both sides, called upon
counsel to suggest omissions as to particular points; then
followed the proceedings already recited. We think counsel should have directed attention to the omission which
it is evident was inadvertent. The case, in this aspect, is
entirely unlike the Jacoby Case, where a specific request
was made and refused, and a recovery had upon an award
of the Commission which the testimony tended to show
was made upon a wrong basis.

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. MINDS.
368.

Opinion of the Court.

This court has repeatedly held that objections to the
charge of a trial judge must be specifically made in order
that he may be given an opportunity to correct errors and
omissions himself before the same are made the basis of
error proceedings; this is the only course fair to the court
and the parties. McDermott v. Severe, 202 U. S. 600, 610;
Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. Earnest, 229 U. S. 114, 120;
United States v. U. S. Fidelity Co., 236 U. S. 512, 529;
Jacobs v. Southern Ry. Co., 241 U. S. 229, 236; Guerini
Stone Co. v. Carlin Construction Co., 248 U. S. 334, 338.
Parties may not rest content with the procedure of a
trial, saving general exceptions to be made the basis of
error proceedings, when they might have had all they
were entitled to by the action of the trial court had its
attention been seasonably called to the matter.
The trial court and the Court of Appeals have refused to
disturb the amounts awarded by the jury as compensation
for the clear violation of the Interstate Commerce Act,
which these records disclose, and which were very much
less than the sums awarded by the Commission when the
allowance of interest is considered which under the court's
instructions entered into the verdicts. We think the only
serious ground upon which reversal may be asked is found
in the failure to give the points, to which we have referred,
and as to them, we are of the opinion that such failure
was waived by the course of proceeding to which attention has been directed.
Affirmed.

