OCTOBER, TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

"to enlarge the rights of any railway company to cut
timber on the public domain"; it would make the act
available to a railroad as a means of profit or other purpose than road construction. And its value would be a
temptation to do so. In this case it is alleged that the
value of the "tie slash" that the officers of the Forest
Service took possession of (it was only part of that which
was cut) "was, and is, $26,454.90."
Finally, appellants rely upon the letter of the Chief,
Field Division, General Land Office, supra. The immediate answer is that made by the Court of Claims: the want
of power in the officer to enlarge the Act of March 3, 1875,
and to give rights in the public lands not conferred by it.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in the decision.

TAYABAS LAND COMPANY, ASSIGNEE AND SUCCESSOR OF VELASQUEZ ET AL., v. MANILA
RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 331.

Argued April 25, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

Under §§ 246, 273, 496 and 497 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the
Philippine Islands, the Supreme Court of the Islands may review
the evidence touching the amount of an award reported by commissioners and accepted by the Court of First Instance in a condemnation case, and may find a different amount upon a preponderance of the evidence and modify the judgment accordingly if
a motion for new trial has been made and exceptions taken as provided in the last-mentioned section. P. 24.
This court will accept a construction placed by the Supreme Court
of the Philippine Islands upon a local statute, if not clearly erro-

TAYABAS LAND CO. v. MANILA R. R. CO.
22.

23

Opinion of the Court.

neous, and will assume that that court duly considered and weighed
the testimony and commissioners' report on the facts. P. 27.
This court cannot examine questions of fact in a case coming from
the Philippine -court on writ of error. Id.
32 Phil. Rep. 286, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. David A. Baer, with whom Mr. A. S. Crossfield and
Mr. S. W. O'Brien were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward S. Bailey for defendant in error.
Mn. JusTicE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
A case of eminent domain exercised by the railroad
company to condemn twelve small parcels of land in
Lucena, Province of Tayabas, Philippine Islands, in
accordance with the petition of the railroad company.
In accordance with the statutory provisions three
commissioners were appointed to hear the parties and inspect the properties. They subsequently reported that
the parties had been heard and that they, the conmissioners, had inspected the properties and examined the
same "inch by inch."
They made further detail of their proceedings, set forth
certain causes for the increase in value of the properties
in the four or five years preceding the hearing, even before the coming of the railroad to the town "so that the
value of land near Cotta was quoted at P2.00 up per
square meter, according to the importance and situation
of the land," but that the railroad had "undoubtedly
greatly influenced the rise in the prices of the same lands."
They reported, however, that, taking into consideration
all the circumstances, benefits to the railroad and others,
they unanimously fixed the values of the pieces of prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

erty belonging to the parties who were first impleaded
in the cause. These values it is not necessary to give nor
to designate the properties to which they were attached,
for the reason that the ownership of the properties, part
before and part after the rendition of the commissioners'
report, had become vested in the Tayabas Land Company.
In accordance with the report judgment was rendered
in favor of the land company for P81,412.75, with interest at the rate of 6% from the date of taking possession
of the land.
Motions for new trials were denied and the case was
taken to the Supreme Court of the Islands by the railroad company, and that court modified the judgment
by reducing the award for one of the parcels, containing
16,094 square meters, to the sum of P6,500, and the damages for the remaining parcels were fixed at the same proportionate amount.
The land company says, however, that "the prime
question involved in this entire case is in its last analysis
one of value, that is, what is a fair value of the land taken
by the railroad company for its railroad station at Lucena?" That, indeed, is the ultimate inquiry, but it depends, according to other contentions, upon the power
of the Supreme Court over the report of the commissioners and to review and consider the evidence. In other
words, the weight that was to be given to the report of the
commissioners as a matter of fact and law under § 246 of
the Code of Civil Procedure of the Islands and to the
findings of the Court of First Instance under §§ 273 and
497 of the same code.
Section 273 describes the elements that must be considered in determining in a case where "the preponderance or superior weight of evidence on the issues involved
lies," and § 497 provides for the extent of the power of the
Supreme Court to review and dispose of the case on ap-

TAYABAS LAND CO. v. MANILA R. R. CO.
22.

25

Opinion of the Court.

peal, and it is contended that the Supreme Court was
bound, as the Court of First Instance was, to decide by
the preponderance of the evidence determined in the same
way. This may be conceded, and to what extent the Supreme Court satisfied the requirement of the section we
shall presently consider after we have given attention
to the more insistent contention based on § 246, which
reads as follows:
"Upon the filing of such report in court, the court shall,
upon hearing, accept the same and render judgment in
accordance therewith; or for cause shown, it may recommit the report to the commissioners for further report of
facts; or it may set aside the report and appoint new
commissioners; or it may accept the report in part and
reject it in part, and may make such final order and judgment as shall secure to the plaintiff the property essential
to the exercise of his rights under the law, and to the
defendant just compensation for the land so taken; and
the judgment shall require payment of the sum awarded
as provided in the next section, before the plaintiff can
enter upon the ground and appropriate it to the public
use."

It will be observed that an alternative power is presented, either to accept the report and render judgment in
accordance therewith or to make other dispositions of it
or upon it; the latter, however, in a very general way.
And the absence of detail encourages and gives some
plausibility to controversy, but it is resolved, we think,
against the contention of the land company by the analysis of the Supreme Court of the section. The court
points out, quoting the section, that it may "accept the
report in part and reject it in part;" and it observed that
that situation alone might limit the court's power if it
were not also empowered "to make such final order and
judgment as shall secure to the plaintiff the property
essential to the exercise of his rights under the law, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

to the defendant just compensation for the land so taken."
A comprehensive power, we may instantly say, and one
required to be exercised and adequate when exercised to
pass upon and finally adjudge the designated rights. And
it gives facility to the statute, substitutes for circumlocution and delay, directness and expedition, qualities that a
statute of eminent domain should possess.
The court further pointed out that the "'final order
and judgment' are reviewable by this court by means of
a bill of exceptions in the same way as any other 'action,'"
and decided besides that § 496 of the Code was applicable.
That section gives power in the exercise of appellate
jurisdiction to "affirm, reverse, or modify any final judgment, order, or decree of the Court of First Instance."
And this discretion, the Supreme Court in the present
case decided, extends to cases of eminent domain and,
where § 497 of the Code providing for motions for new
trial had been complied with, it, the court, might" examine
the testimony and decide the case by a preponderance of
the evidence; or, in other words, retry the case on the merits and render such order or judgment as justice and equity
may require." The final conclusion of the court was,
rejecting the contention of appellants, that it had power
"to change or modify the report of the commissioners by
increasing or decreasing the amount of the award" if the
facts of the case justified. And it was the conclusion of
the court that the facts so justified; and, after a review of
prior cases, it rejected the contention that its conclusion
was in conflict with them.
It will be observed, therefore, that the court considered
that it was under the same obligation to determine the
case by the preponderance of the evidence as was the
Court of First Instance, and discharging its obligation, that
is, in determining upon the weight of the evidence, its estimate of the values of the properties taken by the railroad
was different from that of the Court of First Instance.

TAYABAS LAND CO. v. MANILA R. R. CO.
22.

27

Opinion of the Court.

We are brought back, therefore, to the consideration
of §246 and the contention of plaintiff in error that under
it the Supreme Court had transcended its powers in reducing the values found and reported by the commissioners
and "erred in holding as a matter of law that appellants
were not entitled to recover the amount fixed by the commissioners," they being the tribunal to hear the evidence
and view the premises, and that under § 246, their report
being filed, the court was required "upon hearing to accept the same and render judgment in accordance therewith," there being no cause shown, it is contended, for
recommitting the report or exercising any of the other
alternatives permitted by the section.
But, as we have seen, as to its power of action upon the
report of the commissioners the court differed radically
with the land company, and if we should, in deference to
the land company's contention, admit there is ambiguity
in §246, we should be unable nevertheless to reverse the
ruling of the Supreme Court of the Islands upon the local
statutes, and we must assume the court gave consideration to all of the testimony and estimated the weight to be
assigned to the report and to the declaration of the commissioners that they had examined "inch by inch" the
properties involved. We say this only in passing. The
case is here on writ of error and we cannot examine questions of fact. Santos v. Roman Catholic Church, 212 U.
S. 463; Ling Su Fan v. United States, 218 U. S. 302, 308;
Harty v. Victoria, 226 U. S. 12; Gauzon v. Compania Gen-

eral &c., 245 U. S. 86, 88.
Errors of law besides those stated above are asserted.
For instance the company contends that the court used
the evidence that had been introduced to prove title as
evidence of value and, further, assigned too much strength
to it. Both propositions are too intimately associated
with and dependent upon the whole case to be estimated
in separation. The court's consideration, therefore, or its

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Parties.

250 U. S.

judgment upon them we cannot disturb. Indeed, the
contention of the land company is but an instance of its
broader contention of want of power in the Supreme
Court to review the findings of the Court of First Instance
or to disregard the report of the commissioners. Accepting the decision of the court upon those propositions, we
necessarily affirm its judgment.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JusTICE BRANDEIS concurs

in the result.

JOSEPH SCHLITZ BREWING COMPANY v. HOUSTON ICE & BREWING COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 326.

Submitted April 24, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

A manufacturer of beer cannot claim the exclusive right to use brown
bottles with brown labels; but their adoption by a competitor may
contribute to a wrongful deception if combined with an imitative
inscription.
Held, that defendant's label was so dissimilar to plaintiff's in shape,
script, meaning, and mode of attachment, that it could not be said
to add appreciably to any deception that might arise from the
brown color of label and bottle.
241 Fed. Rep. 817, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Russell Jackson for petitioner. Mr. John W. McMillan was on the brief.
Mr. H. M. Garwood for respondents. Mr. Jesse Andrews
and Mr. Walter H. Walne were on the brief.

