PUBLIC SERVICE CO. v. CORBOY.
Argument for Appellant.

PUBLIC SERVICE

COMPANY OF NORTHERN

ILLINOIS v. CORBOY, DRAINAGE COMMISSIONER OF THE CALUMET DITCH.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 258.

Argued March 20, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

The District Court has jurisdiction over a suit to enjoin a state officer,
acting under color of his official authority, from executing a state
law in alleged violation of constitutional rights, even though such
injunction may, in effect, render the law inoperative until the constitutional question has been judicially determined. P. 159.
Section 265 of the Judicial Code, forbidding the granting of injunctions
by courts of the United States to stay proceedings in any state
court, except when authorized in bankruptcy cases, refers only to
proceedings in which a final judgment or order has not been entered
and in which the power exerted is judicial as distinguished by the
Constitution from powers legislative and executive. Id.
Where a state law empowers a court, on petition made and on notice
to property owners, to establish drainage districts, assess benefits,
and appoint commissioners to carry on the work under the court's
supervision, a suit in the District Court by a resident of another
State, not a party to such a proceeding, to enjoin the commissioner so appointed from constructing a ditch so authorized
upon the ground that it would impair plaintiff's constitutional
rights in a stream in its State of residence without due process of
law is not inhibited by Jud. Code, § 265. Id.
Questions of comity and of the sufficiency of the plaintiff's averments
to justify relief are not before this court on a direct appeal involving
only the jurisdiction of the District Court. P. 162.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Buell McKeever, with whom Mr. Charles W. Smith,
Mr. Gilbert E. Porter and Mr. William G. Beale were on
the briefs, for appellant:

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Appellant.

250 U. S.

The sole question for the consideration of this court is
one of jurisdiction. Jud. Code, § 238; Mexican Central
Ry. Co. v. Eckman, 187 U. S. 429, 432; Venner v. Great
Northern Ry. Co., 209 U. S. 24, 30; Simon v. Southern Ry.
Co., 236 U. S. 115, 121.
The construction of the ditch, whether considered an
act of the circuit court of Porter County or an act of the
drainage commissioner as an agent of the State, is not
a judicial proceeding within the meaning of § 265, but
merely a legislative, executive or administrative act, and
as such may be enjoined by a federal court.
The distinction between proceedings judicial and proceedings legislative, executive or administrative, although
taking place in a body which in its principal aspect is a
court, has been repeatedly recognized by this court in
construing § 265. Proceedings which are legislative, executive or administrative in character, although taken in
a state court, may be enjoined by a federal court. Prentis
v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210, 225-7; Mississippi
Railroad Commission v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 203
U. S. 335, 341; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Garrett,
231 U. S. 298; Southern Ry. Co. v. Greensboro Ice & Coal
Co., 134 Fed. Rep. 82, 94; affd. in McNeill v. Southern Ry.
Co., 202 U. S. 543; Crapo v. Hazelgreen, 93 Fed. Rep. 316;
Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co. v. Stevens,
172 Fed. Rep. 595, 608-610; Western Union Telegraph Co.
v. Myatt, 98 Fed. Rep. 335, 342, 346-347, 355, 360-361;
Weil v. Calhoun, 25 Fed. Rep. 865, 870-871.
After the entry of the final decree of the state court
establishing the ditch, confirming the assessments and
assigning the construction of the ditch to a drainage
conunissioner, the proceedings passed beyond the control
of the original petitioning land owners, who thereafter had
no right or authority either to dismiss the petition or
abandon the proposed improvements. Appellee then
stood for and represented such land owners. Any collat-

PUBLIC SERVICE CO. v. CORBOY.
153.

Argument for Appellee.

eral attack thereafter upon the ditch proceeding may not
be brought against the original petitioners but must be
brought against such commissioner. Board of Commissioners v. Jarnecke, 164 Indiana, 658; Furness v. Brummitt,
48 Ind. App. 442; Carterv. Buller, 159 Indiana, 52.
The drainage proceeding was in fact a suit of a private
character for the special benefit of the owners of the lands
proposed to be drained, who are now represented by appellee. Although appellant because of the state practice
may not directly enjoin such owners from obtaining the
benefit of the decree establishing the ditch, nevertheless,
it should not for that reason be deprived of all relief in a
federal court. Since appellee stood for and represented the
owners of the lands proposed to be drained, appellant's
bill against him was in substance and effect merely a bill
to enjoin him from obtaining for such owners the benefit
of a decree affecting the property of appellant, which was
void as against appellant for wanit of jurisdiction, and the
District Court should have retained jurisdiction of the
bill. Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., supra;Hunt v. New York
Cotton Exchange, 205 U. S. 322; Colorado Eastern Ry. Co.
v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co., 141 Fed. Rep. 898;
Marshall v. Holmes, 141 U. S. 589, 596-600; Smyth v.
Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 516; Arrowsmith v. Gleason, 129
U. S. 86, 98-101.
Mr. John H. Gillett and Mr. Frank B. Pattee, with whom
Mr. Randall W. Burns was on the brief, for appellee:
The attempt to restrain the drainage commissioner is
in effect the same as an attempt to restrain the proceedings.
Dietzsch v. Huidekoper, 103 U. S. 494; French v. Hay, 22
Wall. 250; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Louisville &c.
R. Co., 218 Fed. Rep. 628; Union Pacific Co. v. Flynn, 180
Fed. Rep. 565; Rensselaer &c. R. Co. v. Bennington &c.
R. Co., 18 Fed. Rep. 617; Hyattsville &c. Assn. v. Bouic, 44
App. D. C. 408.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Appellee.

250 U. S.

The provisions of § 265 of the Judicial Code extend to
the entire proceedings, from the commencement of the
suit until the decree is performed. Sargent v. Helton, 115
U. S. 348; Chapman v. Brewer, 114 U. S. 158; Wayman
v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1; Leathe v. Thomas, 97 Fed. Rep.
136; Fenwick Hall Co. v. Old Saybrook, 66 Fed. Rep. 389;
Amusement &c. Co. v. El Paso &c. Co., 251 Fed. Rep. 345.
Section 265 inhibits the granting of an injunction against
proceedings in a state court even where the jurisdiction
is attacked. American Assn. v. Hurst, 59 Fed. Rep. 1;
Mills v. Provident &c. Co., 100 Fed. Rep. 344; Phelps v.
Mutual Reserve Fund Life Assn., 112 Fed. Rep. 453; affd.
190 U. S. 159.
It is not material that the bill seeks to present a constitutional question. Aultman & Taylor Co. v. Brumfield,
102 Fed. Rep. 7, 11.
The subject-matter was in the possession, actual or
constructive, of appellee, as commissioner, who was to
all intents and purposes a receiver, and, therefore, the
property was in custodia legis, and not subject to the writs
of other courts. Wiswall v. Sampson, 14 How. 52, 65;
Palmer v. Texas, 212 U. S. 118.
The mere fact that a stranger may be prejudiced by the
proceeding, the defect not appearing on the face of the
record, does not render the judgment void.
Even after the rendition of the decree establishing the
drain and ordering the work constructed, the cause continued to pend in the state court, to all intents and purposes as in the case of a receivership, with power on the
part of the court not only to enforce the direct provisions of
the statute concerning the duties of the commissioner, but
with power to meet any situation which might develop in
the course of the construction of the drain. Mak-Saw-Ba
Club v. Coffin, 169 Indiana, 204; Rogers v. Voorhees, 124
Indiana, 469; Murray v. Cault, 179 Indiana, 658; Steele v.
Hanna, 117 Indiana, 333; Karr v. Board, 170 Indiana, 571.

PUBLIC SERVICE CO. v. CORBOY.
153.

Opinion of the Court.

The proceeding was not legislative, since it involved
the awarding of rights granted by existing laws. If the
legislature sees fit to make provision for the determination
by a judicial tribunal of the right to the relief provided
for by the statute, after an inquiry involving the determination of questions of law and fact, had after the manner
of the common law, such proceedings are judicial, and the
proceedings constitute a suit in the state court, concerning
which the District Court of the United States cannot
interfere from the time that the petition is filed until the
drain is constructed and the commissioner discharged.
Boom Co. v. Patterson,98 U. S. 403; Union Pacific R. Co.
v. Myers, 115 U. S. 1; County of Upshur v. Rich, 135 U.
S. 467; In re The Jarnecke Ditch, 69 Fed. Rep. 161.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
An "Act concerning drainage," passed in Indiana in
1907, briefly outlined is as follows: (1) It authorized the
appointment by the county commissioners of each county
of an officer called a drainage commissioner and made the
county surveyor also ex officio such an officer. (2) It
empowered a defined circuit court, on the petition of private land owners or of municipal or other public bodies
representing public ownership, to establish a drainage
district and to authorize the carrying out in such district
of the work petitioned for, and gave the court authority
to appoint an additional drainage commissioner, the three
being directed to aid the court to the extent by it desired
in securing data concerning the questions required to be
passed upon in disposing of the petition. (3) To accomplish the purposes of the statute, personal notice to known
property holders and notice by publication to those unknown was exacted, and the court was empowered to reject the whole suggested scheme or to authorize such part

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

of it as might be deemed best, or to devise and sanction
a new plan. (4) As to any plan which it authorized, the
court was empowered to provide for the cost of the work
by distributing the amount upon the basis of the benefits
to be received and the burdens to result to each land
owner. (5) It authorized the designation by the court
of one of the drainage commissioners, or if it deemed best,
of any other resident of the district, to carry into execution under the general supervision of the court any work
authorized, with power to contract and subject to accountability to the court as the work progressed and at
its conclusion.
The Little Calumet River, rising in the State of Indiana,
flows in a westerly direction across Porter and Lake Counties in that State into Cook County, Illinois, within whose
boundaries it commingles with the Grand Calumet which
empties into Lake Michigan.
After proceedings under the statute, the circuit court
of Porter County, in May, 1911, established a drainage
district in Porter and Lake Counties and authorized the
construction of a ditch to proceed from the Little Calumet River in a northerly direction to Lake Michigan.
This action of the court was taken to the Supreme
Court of Indiana and there affirmed (182 Indiana, 178),
and on error from this court was also affirmed (242

U. S. 375).
Before work on the ditch was commenced, however,
the appellant, an Illinois corporation which was not a
party to the proceedings to establish the district, brought
this suit against Corboy, the drainage commissioner appointed by the court to do the work, to enjoin the execution of the same. The relief prayed was based on the
ground that the effect of the ditch would be to draw off
from the Little Calumet River, an interstate stream, such
a quantity of water as to seriously diminish the flow in
that river and thereby practically cripple, if not destroy,

PUBLIC SERVICE CO. v. CORBOY.
153.

Opinion of the Court.

the capacity of petitioner to continue to operate a plant
for the production of electrical energy established and
owned by it on the banks of the Little Calumet in Cook
County, Illinois. It was alleged that the right to have
the river flow in its normal volume was a property right
enjoyed by petitioner under the law of Illinois, protected
by the constitutions both of the State and of the United
States, and which therefore could not be impaired or taken
away without depriving the petitioner of property in violation of due process of law as afforded by both constitutions. The court, being of opinion that the relief prayed
was prohibited by § 265 of the Judicial Code, dismissed
the bill for want of jurisdiction. The case is here by direct
appeal on that question alone.
Although a State may not be sued without its consent,
nevertheless a state officer acting under color of his official
authority may be enjoined from carrying into effect a
state law asserted to be repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States even though such injunction may
cause the state law to remain inoperative until the constitutional question is judicially determined. The doctrine
is elementary, but we refer to a few of the leading cases
by which it is sustained: Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140
U. S.1, 9; Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S.
362, 392; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 152; Prentis v.
Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210, 230; Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Los Angeles, 227 U. S. 278;
Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. R. Co., 244 U. S.
499, 506.
There was jurisdiction therefore in the court below as
a federal court to afford appropriate relief unless the want
of power resulted from the prohibition of § 265 of the
Judicial Code, which is as follows:
"The writ of injunction shall not be granted by any
court of the United States to stay proceedings in any
court of a State except in cases where such injunction

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

may be authorized by any law relating to proceedings in
bankruptcy."
In Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210,
the facts, briefly stated, were these: By the constitution
and laws of Virginia the Corporation Commission of that
State was constituted a court and was authorized in that
capacity to establish railroad rates and to enforce them.
The authority thus conferred was exerted and the jurisdiction of a court of the United States was invoked to
enjoin the Commission from enforcing the rates so fixed
on the ground that to put them in operation would amount
to a confiscation of the property of the railroad and hence
would be repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States. The power to afford relief was challenged on the
ground that as the Corporation Commission was a court
under the constitution and law of the State, its proceedings
could not be stayed by a court of the United States because of the prohibition of § 265 of the Judicial Code.
It was held, however, that as the power to fix rates was
legislative and not judicial, the prohibition had no application and the injunction prayed was granted.
In Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 115, suit was
brought in a court of the United States by the Railway
Company against Simon to enjoin the enforcement of a
judgment which had been rendered in a state court in
favor of Simon and against the Railway Company on the
ground of want of notice and fraud. Asserting that to
grant the relief would be to stay proceedings in the state
court, the jurisdiction was disputed, based upon the prohibition of the section previously quoted. The jurisdiction
was upheld and it was decided that although the prohibition might have prevented the granting of an injunction
staying proceedings before the judgment was rendered,
it did not so operate after the entry of the final judgment
because "when the litigation has ended and a final judgment has been obtained-and when the plaintiff endeavors

PUBLIC SERVICE CO. v. CORBOY.
153.

Opinion of the Court.

to use such judgment-a new state of facts, not within
the language of the statute may arise." The execution
of the judgment was therefore enjoined.
This conclusion was sustained by the text as elucidated
by the purely remedial purposes intended to be accomplished by its enactment. The court thus stated the
origin of the statute as illustrative of its remedial scope
(pp. 123-4):
"In 1793, when that statute was adopted (1 Stat. 334),
courts of equity had a well-recognized power to issue writs
of injunction to stay proceedings pending in court,-in
order to avoid a multiplicity of suits, to enable the defendant to avail himself of equitable defenses and the
like. It was also true that the courts of equity of one
State or country could enjoin its own citizens from prosecuting suits in another State or country. Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107. This, of course, often gave rise to
irritating controversies between the courts themselves
which could, and sometimes did, issue contradictory injunctions.
"On principles of comity and to avoid such inevitable
conflicts the act of 1793 was passed."
Be this as it may, it is certain that the prohibitions
which the statute imposes secure only the right of state
courts to exert their judicial power; that is, a power called
into play alone between parties to a controversy, and the
operation of which power when exerted was, from the very
fact that it was judicial, confined to the parties, their
duties, interests and property, in other words, to a power
falling within the general limitation of things judicial as
demarked by the great distinction between legislative,
executive and judicial power upon which the Constitution
was framed. This is the necessary result of the ruling in
the Prentis Case, by which it is made certain that although
a State may have power to confer upon its courts such
authority as may be deemed appropriate, it cannot by

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

the exertion of such right draw into the judicial sphere
powers which are intrinsically legislative and executive
or both, and thus bring the exercise of such powers within
the scope of the prohibition of the statute, with the result
of depriving the courts of the United States to that extent
of their omnipresent authority to enforce the Constitution.
It follows necessarily, therefore, that although the
Constitution did not limit the power of the States to
create courts and to confer upon them such authority as
might be deemed best for state purposes, that right could
not, by its exertion, restrain or limit the power of the
courts of the United States by bringing within the state
judicial authority subjects which in their constitutional
sense were non-judicial in character and therefore not
within the implied or express limitation by which courts
of the United States were restrained from staying judicial
proceedings in state courts. To hold to the contrary
would be in large measure to recognize that the exertion
of the authority of the courts of the United States was
dependent, not upon the nature and character of the subject-matter with which they are called upon to deal, but
merely upon a state classification.
This conclusion renders it unnecessary to consider
whether the construction of the ditch under the authority
of the state statute, isolatedly considered, could be regarded as a judicial proceeding within the meaning of the
statute, or whether, putting that view aside under the
assumption that the proceedings were judicial, the order
for construction could be treated as final and for that
reason alone capable of being stayed, within the ruling of
Simon v. Southern Ry. Co.
The arguments at bar pressed upon our attention considerations based upon the assumed application of general
principles of comity, but as on this direct appeal we have
power alone to consider questions of the jurisdiction of the
court below as a federal court, they are not open to our

DAKOTA CENT. TEL. CO. v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
153.

163

Syllabus.

consideration. Louisville Trust Co. v. Knott, 191 U. S. 225.
This moreover puts out of view the argument advanced
concerning the adequacy of the averments of the bill to
justify relief, since that subject necessarily, for the reasons
stated, must be left to the consideration of the court below when it exercises jurisdiction of the cause.
Our order, therefore, is that the decree be reversed and
the case be remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

DAKOTA CENTRAL TELEPHONE COMPANY ET
AL. v. STATE OF SOUTH DAKOTA EX REL.
PAYNE, ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
DAKOTA.
No. 967.

Argued May 5, 6, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

The Joint Resolution of July 16, 1918, c. 154, 40 Stat. 904, authorizing
the President during the continuance of the present war, whenever
he shall deem it necessary for the national security or defense, to
take possession and assume control, inter alia, of any telephone line
or any part thereof, and operate it as may be needful or desirable
for the duration of the war, is within the war power of Congress.
P. 183. NorthernPacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, ante, 135.
Whether the exercise of the power so conferred was justified by the
conditions at the time, or was actuated by proper motives, are
questions of executive discretion not within the cognizance of the
judiciary, under the Constitution. Pp. 184, 187.
The Joint Resolution, supra, authorized the complete possession, control and operation of telephone lines by the United States, including
the fixing of rates for local service, as brought about through the
President's Proclamation of July 22, 1918, and the action of the
Postmaster General thereunder, whereby the United States, under

