OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

taken, for it affirmatively appears not only that the land
officers after the reconveyance entertained the lieu selections of the same tracts, but also that they approved one
of those selections and passed it to patent. Besides, the
ultimate judgment entered by the court departs somewhat-possibly through a clerical inadvertence-from its
final opinion.
The judgment must be reversed and tho cause remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with the views
here expressed.
Judgment reversed.

CITY OF PAWHUSKA v. PAWHUSKA OIL & GAS
COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 281.

Argued March 25, 1919.--Decided June 9, 1919.

As respects grants to municipalities of governmental authority-and
such is the authority to regulate the rates charged to a city and
its inhabitants by a gas company-the power of the States is not
restrained by the contract clause of the Constitution. P. 397.
A city contended that, at the time when it granted a franchise to a
gas company to use the streets and supply gas to the city and its
inhabitants, the city alone had authority to regulate the charges
and service thereunder within its municipal limits; that the legislature could not transfer that authority to a state commission consistently with the state constitution; and that in consequence a later
act of the legislature, and an order of the commission thereunder
changing the service and increasing the rates, impaired the obligation of the franchise contract between the city and the company.
Held, that no question was presented under the contract clause
affording this court jurisdiction to review a judgment against the
city by the state Supreme Court. P. 396.
Writ of error to review 166 Pac. Rep. 1058, dismissed.

PAWHUSKA v. PAWHUSKA OIL CO.
394.

Opinion of the Court.

THE, case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Preston A. Shinn for plaintiff in error.

Mr. T. J. Leahy, with whom Mr. C. S. Macdonald
and Mr. Burdette Blue were on the brief, for defendants
inerror.
MR. JusTIcE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
A city in Oklahoma is complaining here of an order of
the corporation commission of the State, made in 1917,
regulating the rates and service of a gas company engaged
in supplying natural gas to the city and its inhabitants.
The company has a franchise, granted by the city in 1909,
which entitles it to have its pipe lines in the streets and
alleys of the city and provides that the gas shall be supplied at flat or meter rates, at the option of the consumer,
and that the rates shall not be in excess of fixed standards.
When the franchise was granted there was a provision
in the state constitution, Art. XVIII, ยง 7, reading: "No
grant, extension, or renewal of any franchise or other use
of the streets, alleys, or other public grounds or ways of
any municipality, shall divest the State, or any of its subordinate subdivisions, of their control and regulation of
such use and enjoyment. Nor shall the power to regulate
the charges for public services be surrendered; and no
exclusive franchise shall ever be granted"; and there also
was a statutory provision, Rev. Stats. 1903, ยง 398; Rev.
Laws, 1910, ยง 593, declaring: "All such grants shall be
subject at all times to reasonable regulations by ordinance
as to the use of streets and prices to be paid for gas or
light."
In 1913 the state legislature adopted an act providing
that the corporation commission" shall have general super-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

vision over all public utilities, with power to fix and establish rates and to prescribe rules, requirements and regulations, affecting their services." Laws 1913, c. 93, ยง 2.
It was under this act, and after a full hearing on a petition
presented by the gas company, that the order in question
was made. The order abrogates all flat rates, increases
the meter rates, requires that the gas be sold through
meters to be supplied and installed at the company's expense, and recites that the evidence produced at the hearing disclosed that the franchise rates had become inadequate and unremunerative and that supplying gas at flat
rates was productive of wasteful use. On an appeal by
the city the Supreme Court of the State affirmed the order.
166 Pac. Rep. 1058.
The city contended in that court-and it so contends
here-that at the time the franchise was granted it alone
was authorized to regulate such charges and service within
its municipal limits, that the legislature could not transfer
that authority to the corporation commission consistently
with the constitution of the State, and that in consequence the act under which the commission proceeded
and the order made by it effected an impairment of the
franchise contract between the city and the gas company
in violation of the contract clause of the Constitution
of the United States. Or, stating it in another way, the
contention of the city was and is that the authority to
regulate the rates and service, which concededly was reserved at the time the franchise was granted, was irrevocably delegated to the city by the constitution and laws
of the State and therefore that the exertion of that authority by any other state agency, even though in conformity
with a later enactment of the legislature, operated as an
impairment of the franchise contract.
Dealing with this contention the state court, while fully
conceding that the earlier statute delegated to the city
the authority claimed by it, held that this delegation was

PAWHUSKA v. PAWHUSKA OIL CO.
394.

Opinion of the Court.

to endure only "until such time as the State saw fit to
exercise its paramount authority," that under the state
constitution the legislature could withdraw that authority from the city whenever in its judgment the public
interest would be subserved thereby, and that it was
effectively withdrawn from the city and confided to the
corporation commission by the Act of 1913. The claim
that this impaired the franchise contract was overruled.
It is not contended-nor could it well be-that any
private right of the city was infringed, but only that a
power to regulate in the public interest theretofore confided to it was taken away and lodged in another agency
of the State--one created by the state constitution. Thus
the whole controversy is as to which of two existing
agencies or arms of the state government is authorized
for the time being to exercise in the public interest a particular power, obviously governmental, subject to which
the franchise confessedly was granted. In this no question under the contract clause of the Constitution of the
United States is involved, but only a question of local law,
the decision of which by the Supreme Court of the State
is final.
"Muncipal corporations are political subdivisions of the
State, created as convenient agencies for exercising such
of the governmental powers of the State as may be entrusted to them. For the purpose of executing these
powers properly and efficiently they usually are given the
power to acquire, hold, and manage personal and real
property. The number, nature and duration of the powers
conferred upon these corporations and the territory over
which they shall be exercised rests in the absolute discretion of the State. Neither their charters, nor any law conferring governmental powers, or vesting in them property
to be used for governmental purposes, or authorizing
them to hold or manage such property, or exempting
them from taxation upon it, constitutes a contract with

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

the State within the meaning of the Federal Constitution."
Hunter v. Pittsburgh, 207 U. S. 161, 178.
In Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, it was
distinctly recognized that as respects grants of political
or governmental authority to cities, towns, counties and
the like the legislative power of the States is not restrained
by the contract clause of the Constitution, pp. 629-630,
659-664, 668, 694; and in East Hartfordv. HartfordBridge
Co., 10 How. 511, where was involved the validity of a
state statute recalling a grant to a city, theretofore made
and long in use, of power to operate and maintain a ferry
over a river, it was said, p. 533, that the parties to the
grant did not stand "in the attitude towards each other of
making a contract by it, such as is contemplated in the
Constitution, and as could not be modified by subsequent
legislation. The legislature was acting here on the one
part, and public municipal and political corporations on
the other. They were acting, too, in relation to a public
object, being virtually a highway across the river, over
another highway up and down the river. From this
standing and relation of these parties, and from the
subject-matter of their action, we think that the doings
of the legislature as to this ferry must be considered
rather as public laws than as contracts. They related
to public interest. They changed as those interests demanded. The grantees, likewise, the towns being mere
organizations for public purposes, were liable to have
their public powers, rights, and duties modified or abolished at any moment by the legislature. . . . Hence,
generally, the doings between them and the legislature
are in the nature of legislation rather than compact, and
subject to all the legislative conditions just named, and
therefore to be considered as not violated by subsequent
In New Orleans v. New Orleans
legislative changes."
Water Works Co., 142 U. S. 79, where a city, relying on
the contract clause, sought a review by this court of a

PAWHUSKA v. PAWHUSKA OIL CO.
394.

Opinion of the Court.

judgment of a state court sustaining a statute so modifying the franchise of a water works company as to require
the city to pay for water used for municipal purposes, to
which it theretofore was entitled without charge, the
writ of error was dismissed on the ground that no question of impairment within the meaning of the contract
clause was involved. Some of the earlier cases were
reviewed and it was said, p. 91, "But further citations of
authorities upon this point are unnecessary; they are full
and conclusive to the point that the municipality, being
a mere agent of the State, stands in its governmental or
public character in no contract relation with its sovereign,
at whose pleasure its charter may be amended, changed
or revoked, without the impairment of any constitutional
obligation, while with respect to its private or proprietary
rights and interests it may be entitled to the constitutional protection. In this case the city has no more right
to claim an immunity for its contract with the Water
Works Company, than it would have had if such contract
had been made directly with the State. The State, having
authorized such contract, might revoke or modify it at its
pleasure."
The principles announced and applied in these cases
have been reiterated and enforced so often that the
matter is no longer debatable. Covington v. Kentucky,
173 U. S. 231, 241; Worcester v. Worcester Street Ry. Co.,
196 U. S. 539, 548; Braxton County Court v. West Virginia,
208 U. S. 192; Englewood v. Denver & South Platte Ry. Co.,
248 U. S. 294, 296.
Writ of error dismissed.

