STILSON v. UNITED STATES.

677.

Syllabus.

pel against the right to collect the legal rate. Estoppel
could not become the means of successfully avoiding the
requirement of the act as to equal rates, in violation of the
provisions of the statute. New York, New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co. v. York & Whitney Co., 215 Massachusetts,
36, 40.
In our view the Court of Common Pleas correctly held
Fink liable for the payment of the remaining part of the
legal rate upon the merchandise received by him. The
judgment of the Court of Appeals of Montgomery County,
Ohio, is reversed, and the cause remanded to that court
for further procedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

Reversed.

STILSON v. UNITED STATES.
SUKYS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Nos. 264, 265.

Argued October 20, 21, 1919.-Decided
November 10, 1919.

The denial of a severance in a criminal case is within the discretion of
the judge. P. 585.
The Constitution does not require Congress to grant peremptory challenges to defendants in criminal cases; and the long-standing pro-

vision of law (now in Jud. Code, ยง 287) that all of several defendants
shall be treated as one for the purposes of such challenges does not
infringe the right to an impartial jury guaranteed by the Sixth
Amendment. Id.
In a prosecution for conspiracy to violate the Espionage and Selective
Service Acts, where the jury were in substance instructed to consider
certain publications uttered by the defendants, and determine
from them, considered with all the other evidence, whether they

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

amounted to violations, held, that related portions of the charge,
on their right to call upon their general knowledge and information,
were not objectionable. P. 587.
The district judge is not required to analyze and discuss the details
of the evidence, particularly when not requested to comment upon
any special phase of it. P. 588.
The evidence in this case was ample to justify the District Court in
submitting the question of the defendants' guilt to the jury. Id.
254 Fed. Rep. 120, affirmed.

THE,case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry John Nelson for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart, with whom
Mr. W. C. Herron was on the brief, for the United States.
Mn. JusTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error were indicted with two others, not
apprehended, and were convicted under the conspiracy section (4) of the Espionage Act, 40 Stat. 217, 219. The section which the plaintiffs in error were charged with a criminal conspiracy to violate (3), provides:" . . . whoever, when the United States is at war, shall willfully cause
or attempt to cause insubordination, disloyalty, mutiny, or
refusal of duty, in the military or naval forces of the United
States, or shall willfully obstruct the recruiting or enlistment service of the United States, . . . shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than twenty years, or both."
A second count in the indictment charged a conspiracy
to violate certain provisions of the Selective Service Act.
The sentences imposed, within the act upon either count
of the indictment, were three years' imprisonment for
Stilson and three months for Sukys. The Government
does not press the conviction upon the second count.

STILSON v. UNITED STATES.
583.

Opinion of the Court.

The overt acts charged to have been committed in pursuance of the conspiracy consisted of the publication and
distribution of a certain newspaper called "Kova" and
circulars published in the Lithuanian language. The cases
come directly to this court because of constitutional
questions raised and decided in the court below. Since
the proceedings in that court some of the constitutional
questions have been determined, and need not be considered. Schenclc v. United States, 249 U. S. 47; Frohwerk
v. United States, 249 U. S. 204; Debs v. United States, 249
U. S. 211.
Counsel for plaintiffs in error in view of these decisions
only press for consideration certain assignments of error
comprised in the following summary:
1. Whether or not, in ruling that there could be no
severance of defendants and that a peremptory challenge
by one defendant should count as a challenge by all defendants, the trial Judge was in error under Article VI of the
Amendments of the United States Constitution.
2. Whether or not the trial Judge erred in his charge to
the jury in that portion thereof in which he said the jury
might determine the guilt of the defendants from general
information.
3. Whether or not the trial Judge erred in not refreshing
the jury's memory as to the evidence.
4. Whether or not the trial Judge erred in overruling a
motion to take the case away from the jury, and in refusing to charge the jury, "Under all the evidence your verdict should be 'not guilty."'
Of these in their order:
1. It is provided in the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States that in all criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right to a trial by an impartial jury. That it was within the discretion of the
court to order the defendants to be tried together there
can be no question, and the practise is too well established

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

to require further consideration. The contention raised
under the Sixth Amendment comes to this: That because
plaintiffs in error were not each allowed ten separate and
independent peremptory challenges they were therefore
denied a trial by an impartial jury. The statute regulating the matter of peremptory challenges is clear in its
terms and provides: "When the offense charged is treason
or a capital offense, the defendant shall be entitled to
twenty and the United States to six peremptory challenges.
On the trial of any other felony, the defendant shall be
entitled to ten and the United States to six peremptory
challenges; and in all other cases, civil and criminal, each
party shall be entitled to three peremptory challenges;
and in all cases where there are several defendants or
several plaintiffs, the parties on each side shall be deemed
a single party for the purposes of all challenges under this
section. All challenges, whether to the array or panel, or
to individual jurors for cause or favor, shall be tried by the
court without the aid of triers."
The requirement to treat the parties defendant as a
single party for the purpose of peremptory challenges has
long been a part of the federal system of jurisprudence; it
certainly dates back to 1865 and was adopted in the Revised Statutes, and has now become a part of the Judicial
Code. ยง 287, 36 Stat. 1166. Schwartzberg v. United
States, 241 Fed. Rep. 348. There is nothing in the Constitution of the United States which requires the Congress
to grant peremptory challenges to defendants in criminal
cases; trial by an impartial jury is all that is secured. The
number of challenges is left to be regulated by the common
law or the enactments of Congress. That body has seen fit
to treat several defendants, for this purpose, as one party.
If the defendants would avail themselves of this privilege
they must act accordingly. It may be, as is said to have
been the fact in the trial of the present case, that all defendants may not wish to exercise the right of peremptory

STILSON v. UNITED STATES.
583.

Opinion of the Court.

challenge as to the same person or persons, and that some
may wish to challenge those who are unobjectionable to
others. But this situation arises from the exercise of a
privilege granted by the legislative authority and does not
invalidate the law. The privilege must be taken with the
limitations placed upon the manner of its exercise.
2. It is insisted that there was prejudicial error in so
much of the charge as is contained in the following language:
"The next question for you to determine is the presence
of essential elements. One of them is, for instance, that
the United States is at war. Secondly, that what was done
was an attempt to cause insubordination, or what was
done did amount to obstructing enlistment, and the question may arise in your mind how you are to determine
that. Whenever you are asked as a jury to pass upon anything which is a matter within common knowledge, common information, things which people ordinarily know,
which are generally and practically universally known,
when you are passing upon such questions, you have the
right to call upon your general knowledge and information. You must determine, for instance, the question
whether or not we are at war, because unless we are, this
indictment goes for nothing. You may determine that
from your general information, this is something of which,
in the phrase of the law, the law takes judicial notice. So
also when you come to determine the question of whether
or not there was an attempt to cause insubordination, you
take, of course, all the evidence into the case, and you have
a right to direct your minds, as naturally you would, to the
character of these publications themselves, these pamphlets and these articles, and determine from them, assisted
by all the other evidence in the case, whether or not they
do reach the dignity of the charge of attempting to cause
insubordination, or amount to an obstruction of enlistment."

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Certainly no prejudice could arise from an instruction
that the jury might be supposed to know the fact that the
country was at war. As to the other part of the charge,the jury were told to look at all the evidence, including the
character of the publications, and determine from them
whether there was an attempt to cause insubordination
and a willful obstruction of enlistment; in other wordswhether they amounted to a substantial violation of the
statute. We find no well-founded objection to this part
of the charge. It is true this language was used in connection with the observations concerning judicial notice
as to the country being in a state of war, but we are of
opinion, taking the charge together, that the question was
fairly left to the jury upon the evidence in the part of the
instruction which we have quoted, which left to it to determine whether the facts made a case coming within the denunciation of the statute.
3. It is contended that the court did not analyze and
discuss the details of the evidence. The trial judge left
matters of fact to the determination of the jury in a charge
commendable for its fairness. Certainly the lack of discussion in detail does not amount to a valid objection;
particularly in the absence of any specific request for comment upon any special phase of the testimony.
4. As to the contention that there was no evidence to
warrant the convictions of the accused-it must be borne
in mind that it is not the province of this court to weigh
testimony. It is sufficient to support the judgment of the
District Court, if there was substantial evidence inculpating the defendants which, if believed by the jury, would
justify the submission of the issues to it. It would serve
no good purpose to set forth the contents of the newspaper articles and the circulars, the publication and distribution of which were alleged to be the overt acts in furtherance of the alleged conspiracy. That they contain
appeals tending to cause disloyalty and refusal of duty in

STILSON v. UNITED STATES.
583.

Dissent.

the military forces of the United States, and to obstruct
the recruiting and enlistment service of the Government
is sufficiently apparent on the face of the publications.
That those who by concerted action prepared and circulated such writings could be found guilty of a conspiracy is
equally clear. The connection of the plaintiffs in error
with the Lithuanian Socialist Federation, whose membership was shown to be actively opposed to the prosecution
of the war, is apparent from a perusal of the record. Stilson was the translator-secretary of the Federation. There
is evidence tending to show that one of the circulars entitled: "Let us not go to the army" was mimeographed
from the typewriter controlled and operated by him.
Language of the same character as that set forth in the
incriminating circulars is found in articles in evidence
which were admittedly written by him.
Sukys had been a correspondent of "Kova," and was
afterwards manager of the Kova printing plant and was
appointed by the executive committee of the Federation, and incriminating acts of his are clearly shown in the
record.
We agree with the trial court that there was ample testimony justifying the submission of the question of the
guilt of the accused to the jury, who found both of the
plaintiffs in error guilty of concerted action amounting to
a conspiracy to violate the provisions of the act. We find
no error in this record, and the judgments are
Aflirmed.
MR. JusTIcE HoiMEs and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs,
dissented on the ground that as the sentence was upon a
general verdict of guilty on both counts, one of which is
not sustained, the judgment should be reversed.

