FLANDERS v. COLEMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

FLANDERS, AS

TRUSTEE OF COLEMAN, v.
COLEMAN.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 419.

Argued April 14, 15, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

In a suit by a trustee in bankruptcy to set aside preferences and transfers, the jurisdiction of the District Court depends upon the allegations of the bill and not on the proof in support of them; and, where
the bill makes a substantial case within the jurisdiction, the court
must determine the merits. P. 227.
Under the Bankruptcy Act, as amended in 1903 and 1910, the District
Court has jurisdiction of a suit brought by the trustee against a third
party without his consent, to set aside preferences, under § 60b, and
transfers under §§ 67e and 70e. Id.
Whether an alleged surrender of real property and delivery of rent
notes amounted to conveyances under the state law, held matters
appertaining to the merits and not to be considered on direct appeal
under § 238 of the Judicial Code. P. 229.
249 Fed. Rep. 757, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederick T. Saussy, with whom Mr. A. S. Bradley
was on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. F. H. Saffold for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is here (Judicial Code, § 238) solely upon a
question of the jurisdiction of the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Georgia to entertain the suit brought by R. A. Flanders, as Trustee in
Bankruptcy of M. C. Coleman, against E. J. Coleman.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Omitting unnecessary parts, the bills avers: That the
jurisdiction of the court is invoked under §§ 60b, 67e
and 70e of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended. That in
1902 the said E. J. Coleman, the father of M. C. Coleman,
owned a tract of land containing 377 acres in the State of
Georgia, and placed his son, M. C. Coleman, the bankrupt, in possession thereof, expressing the intention to
give the land to his son. M. C. Coleman cleared the land,
moved on the same and lived thereon for a period of at
least twelve years, and placed valuable improvements
thereon. That M. C. Coleman rented as landlord said
377 acres to Dan Davis, rent notes of $1,000 each for the
same being taken in the name of M. C. Coleman, payable
on October 1st, 1914, 1915, 1916, 1917, 1918, respectively.
That M. C. Coleman collected the note maturing October 1, 1914, and that he became insolvent on December 1,
1914, and ever since that date, up to the time petition was
filed, was insolvent within the meaning and intent of the
Bankruptcy Act. That while so insolvent, in January or
February, 1915, M. C. Coleman turned over to E. J. Coleman four of said rent notes of the value of $4,000, with the
intent to hinder, delay, and defraud his creditors. That
if the conveyance of the said rent notes was not made with
the purpose to hinder, delay and defraud creditors, the
transfer had the effect to create a preference in favor of
E. J. Coleman, in that when the same was made M. C.
Coleman was insolvent, and the collection thereof would
enable E. J. Coleman to obtain a greater percentage of any
indebtedness claimed to be owing to him by M. C. Coleman, than any other of such creditors of M. C. Coleman, of
the same class. That said transfer was within four months
from the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, the bankrupt
was insolvent, and the transfer operated as a preference,
and E. J. Coleman at the time of receiving the same had
reasonable cause to believe that the same would effect
a preference. That M. C. Coleman, up to December 1,

FLANDERS v. COLEMAN.
223.

Opinion of the Court.

1914, had a good title to the said 377 acres of land, although it does not appear that a deed had ever been delivered from E. J. Coleman to M. C. Coleman. That E. J.
Coleman placed M. C. Coleman in possession of the said
land with the intention to give it to him, and the latter
held possession of it as his own, and made improvements
on it of great value, and dealt with the land as his own for
the purpose of obtaining credit, and from said long possession the title to the land became vested in M. C. Coleman.
That at the time of the transfer of the rent notes to E. J.
Coleman the legal title or right to the land was completely
vested in M. C. Coleman as if he had obtained a deed
from E. J. Coleman. The complaint adds a description
of the improvements, a house, etc., adding, it is averred,
$6,400 to the value of the premises. That M. C. Coleman,
by agreeing with E, J. Coleman to relinquish his rights
and title to the real estate and improvements, in the year
1915, did so with intent to hinder, delay and defraud his
creditors. The petition prays that the transfer of the
four rent notes be declared void as being made with the'
intent to hinder, delay and defraud the creditors of M. C.
Coleman. That the transfer of the notes be declared to be
a preference, should the court hold or find that there is
any indebtedness owing to E. J. Coleman by M. C. Coleman. That the notes collected by E. J. Coleman be accounted for. That any of said notes which may not have
been collected, be decreed to be surrendered to petitioner.
That the 377 acres of land be declared to be the property
of the petitioner as trustee in bankruptcy for the purpose
of applying the same to the credit of the creditors of the
bankrupt. That in the event that the court should hold
that the complainant should not have and receive the relief
prayed for because of any defect in complainant's claim
of title, that he be declared as such trustee to have an
equitable lien or charge on the said land, at least to the
extent of the value of the improvements. That the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

E. J. Coleman be required to specifically perform his
promise and agreement to convey title to the land to
M. C. Coleman, and the title be made in the petitioner's
name as trustee for the benefit of the creditors of the bankrupt. Afterwards the complainant filed an amendment
to the bill in which it was alleged: That within the
period of four months immediately preceding the filing of
the bankruptcy proceedings by M. C. Coleman, to wit:
in January, 1915, while insolvent, and with intent to hinder, delay and defraud his creditors, the said M. C. Coleman, who then held the title to the above described real
estate, fraudulently disclaimed such title, and surrendered
possession thereof to E. J. Coleman, and thereby fraudulently transferred his rights, title, interests and equity in
said real estate to E. J. Coleman, and transferred said
rent notes with the purpose and intent to make the tenant
the tenant of the respondent, and as such he has attorned.
An answer was filed taking issue upon the allegations of
the bill as to fraudulent transfers and conveyance, and
making other allegations unnecessary to set out in detail.
The cause was referred to a master, who took the evidence,
and found that the District Court had jurisdiction, and
that there was a fraudulent transfer, and advised a judgment in favor of the trustee. After considering the report
of the master, the District Court made a final decree,
finding: That, assuming, for the purpose of the consideration of the question of jurisdiction, the testimony submitted by the complainant to be true, the court was without jurisdiction to make a decision on the merits of the
controversy. And it was ordered and directed that the
bill of complaint be dismissed without prejudice of the
petitioner's right to maintain his action in a state court.
The District Court also made a certificate stating: That
the decree of dismissal was based solely upon the ground
that the court was of opinion that it had no jurisdiction to

FLANDERS v. COLEMAN.
223.

Opinion of the Court.

grant any relief to the complainant, that, in reaching this
determination, the court had considered the evidence of
the complainant, assuming it to be true for that purpose,
only, and that it did not show such a transfer within the
meaning of the laws of Congress relating to bankruptcy
as would give the court jurisdiction of the proceedings.
Whether the District Court has jurisdiction to grant any
relief must be determined upon a consideration of the
allegations of the bill and the amendment thereto. If
there be enough of substance in them to require the court
to hear and determine the cause, then jurisdiction should
have been entertained. Looking to the allegations of the
bill and the amendment, as we have stated them, it appears
that the trustee invoked the aid of § 60b of the Bankruptcy
Act, 32 Stat. 799, relating to preferential transfers made
within four months before the filing of the petition in
bankruptcy, also § 67e, 30 Stat. 564, making fraudulent
transfers within four months null and void, except as to
persons acting in good faith, or for a present, fair consideration, and of § 70e of the act, 30 Stat. 566, providing
that the trustee may avoid any transfer of the bankrupt's
property that any creditor might have avoided, and may
recover the property, so transferred, or its value, from the
person to whom it was transferred, unless he was a bona
fide holder prior to the adjudication.
Since the amendments to the Bankruptcy Act of 1903
and 1910 (32 Stat. 797; 36 Stat. 838) the District Courts
of the United States are given concurrent jurisdiction with
the state courts to set aside preferences under § 60b of the
act, and fraudulent transfers within four months prior to
the filing of the petition, under § 67e of the act, and
transfers under § 70e making void any transfer by the
bankrupt of his property which any creditor might have
avoided, and giving the trustee the right to recover the
same. See Stellwagen v. Clum, 245 U. S. 605, 614; Collett
v. Adams, 249 U. S. 545.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

The opinion of the District Court, as set forth in the
record, shows that its conclusion that there was no jurisdiction was based upon a consideration of the evidence,
from which it was found that no preference was shown
under § 60b, nor any fraudulent transfer under §§ 67e or
70e. To justify its conclusion that it was without jurisdiction the district judge cites certain decisions of this
court: Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524, in which
this court held that under § 23 of the Bankruptcy Act
the District Court could by the consent of the defendant,
and not otherwise, entertain suits by the trustee against
third persons to recover property conveyed by the bankrupt before the institution of the bankruptcy proceedings.
It is sufficient to say of that case that it was decided under
the terms of the act before the amendments of 1903 and
1910, respectively, to which we have referred, and which
give concurrent jurisdiction to the state and federal courts.
The District Court also cited Harris v. First National
Bank of Mt. Pleasant,216 U. S. 382, wherein no transfer
of the bankrupt's property was alleged in the petition.
The suit was one by the trustee to recover securities of
the bankrupt, alleged to be held by the bank for the security of an overdraft which, it was averred, had been paid;
and also to recover certain notes alleged to have been
paid by the bankrupt.
The opinion of the District Court shows that it really
considered the merits of the case in reaching the conclusion that it was without jurisdiction. As this court has
not infrequently said, jurisdiction must be determined not
upon the conclusion on the merits of the action, but upon
consideration of the grounds upon which federal jurisdiction is invoked.
Much of the brief of counsel is taken up with a discussion as to whether the alleged transfers amount to a conveyance under the Georgia statutes and decisions. This
discussion is pertinent to the merits, our sole inquiry

BRAINERD &c. QUARRY CO. v. BRICE.
223.

Syllabus.

concerns the jurisdiction of the court. We are of opinion that there was enough alleged to properly invoke
jurisdiction, and that the charges of fraudulent transfers
of the rent notes, and of interests in real estate, were
sufficiently made to bring the action within the jurisdiction of the District Court under the provisions of the
Bankruptcy Act. In this view the judgment of the District Court dismissing the action for want of jurisdiction is
Reversed.

BRAINERD, SHALER & HALL QUARRY COMPANY

v. BRICE, AS SOLE SURVIVING EXECUTOR OF
VAN SCHAICK, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 431.

Submitted March 17, 1919.-Decided June 2,1919.

The allegations of the complaint determine the character of an action
for the purpose of testing the jurisdiction of the District Court to
entertain it. P. 231.
The life tenant of a fund, to secure the remaindermen, executed, with
surety, a bond running to them, their executors, administrators
and assigns, and conditioned for the preservation of the fund by him
and payment to them upon his death. One of them assigned part of
his remainder interest to a third person, who, after the death of the
life tenant, brought an action on the bond against the life tenant's
executor and the surety jointly, to recover in the amount of the assigned remainder interest. Held, that the assignment of the remainder interest carried with it pro tanto the obligation of the bond;
and that the action was one prosecuted by an assignee to recover
on a chose in action, not cognizable by the District Court, where
the assignor and the defendants were citizens of the same State.
Jud. Code, § 24. P. 233. Brown v. Fletcher, 235 U. S. 589, distinguished.
Affirmed.

