ODELL v. FARNSWORTH CO.
Counsel for Parties.

483.

[1888], at most, their option was promptly to treat petitioner as their constructive trustee, or to reject that view.
And I had supposed in such circumstances, under an elementary rule, failure affirmatively to ratify, approve or
adopt the alleged fiduciary's action within a reasonable
time amounted to disapproval. A potential cestui que
trust may not indefinitely speculate on the outcome. In
the present case respondents not only failed promptly to
approve the action whose benefits they now seek; they
deliberately engaged in a long series of actions inconsistent
with their present claim; and while they did so petitioner,
supposing its title absolute and unquestioned, dealt with
the stock accordingly and as it probably would not have
done if the present claim had been asserted.

ODELL v. F. C. FARNSWORTH COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 186.

Submitted March 24, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.

A suit by a patentee to compel an accounting for royalties under a
contract assigning the patent, held not a suit arising under the patent
laws, within Jud. Code, ยง 24, par. 7. P. 503.
257 Fed. Rep. 101, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Samuel E. Darby for appellant.
No appearance for appellees.

OCTOBER TERAM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. Jus,_'aix

250 U. S.

Ci,,ARE delivered ihe opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court for
the Southern District of New York, dismissing plaintiff's,
appellant's, bill for want of jurisdiction.
The District Court certifies: That the case was heard on
the bill of complaint and motion by the defendants to dismiss for want of jurisdiction; that the court ruled that the
cause of action stated in the bill is an action on a contract
and is not a suit arising under the patent laws of the
United States, and that the bill was dismissed for want
of jurisdiction, solely because it showed on its face that
the matter in controversy is less than $3,000.
The bill shows the requisite diversity of citizenship to
give the court jurisdiction, but the amount claimed is only
$1,800, and therefore it did not have jurisdiction, (Judicial Code, ยง 24, 1st paragraph), unless the case is one arising under the patent laws of the United States.
The contention of the appellant is that the suit is one
for infringement of a patent and arises under the patent
laws and that therefore the court had jurisdiction regardless of the amount involved, Judicial Code, ยง 24, 7th paragraph.
The allegations of the bill are: That the plaintiff was
an inventor of a new and useful "steam trap," upon which
he was granted letters patent No. 837,711; that on September 8th, 1914, he made a grant, in writing, to one of the
defendants, to which the other defendant succeeded, of
the "sole and exclusive right to manufacture and sell all
apparatus covered by the patent," . . . "during the
whole term of said patent," and that on the same date the
defendant, assignee of the patent, agreed in writing to pay
plaintiff, in addition to the sum paid for the assignment,$100 within six months, and a royalty thereafter, of $5
upon each "apparatus" sold until there should be received
on account of such royalties the sum of $1,800. It is fur-

ODELL v. FARNSWORTH CO.
501.

Opinion of the Court.

ther alleged that the defendants had sold a large number
of patented "steam traps" but had accounted and paid
for the sale of only five, and that they pretend that the
others which they are manufacturing and selling are not
covered by the letters patent granted to the plaintiff, and,
finally, that the legal title to the patent involved is held
by the defendants to use, and pay for the use of, the invention according to the terms of the written contract of
September 8, 1914.
The prayer is for a discovery of the number of "steam
traps" covered by the patent which the defendants have
sold and for a decree that they "account for and pay over
to your orator the amount of royalties thereon which the
defendants are required to do under the agreement herein
referred to" and for the costs of suit.
Thus, neither the allegations nor the prayer of the bill
aims at annulling or even modifying either the assignment of the patent or the contract on account of the
breach of the latter, but on the contrary, plainly, the case
intended to be stated, is one to enforce the contract and
collect the royalties stipulated in it. Infringement of the
patent is not alleged but, on the contrary, a completed
grant and assignment of the legal title to it is pleaded,
sufficient on its face, while unmodified, to disable the
plaintiff from maintaining a suit for any infringement subsequent to the date of such assignment.
To constitute a suit under the patent laws the "plaintiff must set up some right, title or interest under the
patent laws, or at least make it appear that some right or
privilege will be defeated by one construction, or sustained by the opposite construction of these laws." Pratt
v. ParisGas Light & Coke Co., 168 U. S. 255, 259.
The party who brings suit is "master to decide what
law he will rely upon," and the allegations of his bill are
the evidence, or the expression, of his decision, upon
which the courts must act in determining the question of

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

their jurisdiction. The Fairv. Kohler Die & Specialty Co.,
228 U. S. 22; Healy v. Sea Gull Specialty Co., 237 U. S. 479.
It is too clear for discussion that the case stated in the
bill is a suit for royalties based on the contract, and not
at all involving the construction of any law relating to
patents. It has been often decided by this court that
such a suit is not one arising under the patent laws, and
since less than the requisite jurisdictional amount is
claimed the District Court did not err in dismissing the
bill. Wilson v. Sanford, 10 How. 99; Dale Tile Mfg. Co.
v. Hyatt, 125 U. S. 46; Albright v. Teas, 106 U. S. 613;
Excelsior Wooden Pipe Co. v. Pacific Bridge Co., 185 U.
S. 282; Briggs v. United Shoe Machinery Co., 239 U. S. 48.
The decree of the District Court must be
Affirmed.

BOWERMAN v. HAMNER, AS RECEIVER OF THE
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF SALMON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 289. Argued April 28, 29, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.
In addition to the specific duties defined in the National Banking Law,
a director of a national bank is under a common-law obligation, to
depositors and shareholders as well as to borrowers, to exercise at
least ordinary care and prudence in the supervision and administration of the bank's affairs. P. 510.
While knowledge may be essential to render a director liable as for
a breach of a duty specially imposed by the statute, this does not
prevent application of the common-law rule in measuring violations
of common-law duties. P. 511.
Both kinds of liability may be asserted in one bill of complaint. Id.
A director of a national bank who wilfully fails to attend the meetings

