OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Counsel for Coal Co.

LEHIGH

250 U. S.

COAL & NAVIGATION COMPANY
UNITED STATES.

v.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 38.

Argued October 14, 1919.-Decided November 10, 1919.

Under a covenant in a long lease of its railroad properties, made in 1871
by the Lehigh Coal & Navigation Company to the Central Railroad
of New Jersey, a connecting carrier, the coal of the Lehigh Company
was transported from its mines in Pennsylvania to New Jersey points
at rates less than were charged by the Central on coal from other
mines of the same region; the allowance was indicated in all tariffs
(262 in number) filed by the Central in and after the year of the
Hepburn Act (1906), by a note not specifying it in figures but referring to the lease and covenant; and for receiving such allowances
in the years 1912-1915, the Lehigh Company was indicted for
knowingly receiving rebates or concessions whereby the coal was
transported at a less rate than that named in the tariffs, in violation
of the Elkins Act as amended by the Hepburn Act (c. 3591, 34 Stat.
584). Discrimination was not charged. Held, that the defendant
was entitled to prove that it received such allowances in the honest
belief that they were sufficiently described in and justified under
the tariffs, such belief having been based on advice given the defendant when the tariff description )as first formulated, upon the acceptance without objection by the Interstate Commerce Commission of
the numerous tariffs containing it, upon information from the carrier,
in 1908, that the form was specifically approved by the Commission
through its officer in charge of tariffs, and upon the fact that the
Commission, in 1909, was informed through an examination of defendant's records and books of the receipt of such allowances and
did not object. P. 562. Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209
U. S. 56, distinguished.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry S. Drinker, Jr., with whom Mr. Abraham
M. Beitler and Mr. Win. Jay Turner were on the briefs,
for Lehigh Coal & Navigation Co.

LEHIGH COAL & NAV. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
556.

557

Argument for the United States.

Mr. Henry S. Mitchell, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom The Solicitor General was on the
brief, for the United States:
The alleged mistake of law was irrelevant to the question whether the statute was violated by the shipper. The
same alleged mistake was held irrelevant to the question
whether the statute was violated by the carrier. Central
Railroad Co. v. United States, 229 Fed. Rep. 501.
The rejection of the claim of good faith concerning the
footnote in the tariff, as a defense in the carrier's case, is
authority for following the same course on the same facts
in the case of the shipper, because the principle thus enforced against the carrier was one previously established
by this court as against shippers. Armour Packing Co. v.
United States, 209 U. S. 56. The Armour Case was followed in Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. Ry. Co. v. United States,
162 Fed. Rep. 835.
The Armour Case and the Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. Ry.
Case arose under the Elkins Act prior to the insertion
therein of the word "knowingly " by the Hepburn Act of
1906, and defendant emphasizes that, as if it had an important bearing in this case. But the prosecution in Central Railroad Co. v. United States, was based on the statute
with the word "knowingly" inserted, and the Court of
Appeals there held that the asserted belief that the law
was complied with, by means of the footnote in the tariff,
was irrelevant to the question whether the statute was
violated.
The word "knowingly " in the act is evidently to be
taken as consistent with established conceptions of the
law. Thus it may exclude responsibility in cases of mistake of fact; for instance, a miscalculation of the freight
payable, or an error as to the contents or weight of packages shipped. Or it may exclude individual liability in
the case of an officer having only partial knowledge of
essential facts, So too, conceivably, liability may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for the United States.

250 U. S.

excluded in the case of a shipper who made a mistake as
to a tariff and erroneously thought the rate he paid was
published in the tariff.
We see no reason to take the word "knowingly " in the
act as referring to a knowledge of law, thus excluding
responsibility where there was a mistake of law with full
knowledge of the facts and of the act done, and thus overriding the established principle that knowledge of the law
is presumed.
Counsel for defendant rest the argument in their brief
upon the assumption that defendant misunderstood the
meaning of the tariff. The sole misunderstanding which
the excluded testimony tended to show would consist in
supposing that the "allowances " could be justified by
the footnote in the tariff and that would be a misunderstanding of the Elkins Act, not of the tariff.
The prohibition in the Elkins Act of rebates which reduce the published rate is in terms absolute. There is in
the Act to Regulate Commerce as amended by the Hepburn Act of 1906 provision for allowances for transportation services rendered by a shipper. But another provision of the Act to Regulate Commerce requires that all
allowances shall be specified in the tariffs, whilst the footnote in the tariff did not specify the amount of the "allowances " to the defendant. But, wholly apart from the lack
of specification, these "allowances " could not be justified
upon the theory that they were for transportation services, because they were in fact not for such services.
In the anthracite regions the term "lateral allowance "
means an allowance for transportation services rendered by
a shipper. Mitchell Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co.,
230 U. S. 247, 252. As the Court of Appeals held in
Central Railroad Co. v. United States, supra, "nothing
appears to support " the representation that these "allowances" were for transportation services. 229 Fed.
Rep. 509.

LEHIGH COAL & NAV. CO. v. UNITE) STATES.
556.

559

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The case is here on certificate, an outline of which it is
necessary to give.
The Lehigh Coal & Navigation Company, herein called
the Company, is a miner and shipper of anthracite coal
and was indicted, convicted and fined in the District Court
of New Jersey for accepting rebates and concessions fr6m
the Central Railroad of New Jersey in violation of the
Elkins Act, as amended in 1906, 34 Stat. 584.
It was charged in each count of the indictment that the
Central Railroad Company was an interstate carrier of
coal and as such filed tariffs and schedules with the Interstate Commerce Commission showing its rates and
charges from the coal fields in Pennsylvania to points in
New Jersey.
During 1912, 1913, 1914 and a part of 1915, the tariffs
were in force and under them the Company shipped a
carload (described in the indictment) from its colliery in
Pennsylvania to a specified point in New Jersey and accepted from the railroad a portion of the rate due and
payable so that the coal was carried at less than the rate
and the Company thus received the advantage of an illegal rebate. Discrimination was not charged.
In accordance with circumstances which are detailed at
length in the certificate, among which was the fact that
the Company at one time operated a railroad of its own
(the Lehigh & Susquehanna), the Company decided to
lease its railroad properties to the Central Railroad, a connecting carrier. Accordingly, March 31, 1871, the Company made a lease to the Railroad, the 10th covenant of
which provided as follows:
" .
on coal delivered for transportation by the
Company on sidings at the northern end of the Nesquehoning tunnel, the rates of transportation shall not exceed

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S

the rates charged at the same time from Penn Haven to,
the same points on coal from the Lehigh region, either by
the Central Railroad or by the Lehigh Valley Railroad
Company."
In making the lease naturally the Company took into
account the advantageous nearness of its mines to tide and
sought to insure favorable rates for the coal from its collieries.
About 1878 the method of fixing rates was changed but
the rate to be charged the Company was fixed at 86% of
the rate charged to other mines in the Lehigh region, the
reason being that there was that difference in distance.
While this arrangement was in force the Company paid a
net rate calculated on the basis of 86%. After 1887, the
date of the first act to regulate commerce, this method
of settlement was changed and the Company was charged
the full tariff rate, but was rebated or credited with 14%
thereof, this being done under the obligation or supposed
obligation of the 10th covenant. And between 1887 and
August, 1906, when the Hepburn Act went into effect,
this arrangement for repayment did not appear in the tariffs filed by the Railroad with the Commission. But in
August, 1906, and thereafter, the tariffs contained a footnote in the following form:
"(4) In compliance with the Tenth Covenant of the
lease from the Lehigh Coal & Navigation Company under
which the Central Railroad Company of New Jersey
operates the Lehigh and Susquehanna Railroad, a lateral
allowance is made out of herein-named rates to the Lehigh
Coal and Navigation Company on all Anthracite coal
originating on the latter's tracks in the Panther Creek,
Nesquehoning, and Hacklebarnie, Districts mined and
shipped by it, when coming via the Hauto, Nesquehoning,
and Mauch Chunk gateways."
All of the tariffs of the Railroad filed with the Commission after 1906 (262 in number) contained the footnote.

LEHIGH COAL & NAV. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
556.

Opinion of the

561

Court.

The allowance was 19.18 cents per ton and this was credited in the monthly settlement of the Company's account
with the Railroad, the credit being the point of the Government's attack.
"The verdict covers 27 shipments of coal in prepared
sizes from Nesquehoning colliery for reshipment at Elizabethport. The foregoing facts were either proved or
stipulated, and it appeared also without dispute that
during the years in question the Company's officers were
familiar with the contents of the Central Railroad's tariffs,
and knew that the allowance was being made and accepted.
One of the Company's defenses was that it had not ' knowingly' accepted a rebate within the meaning of the Actits contention being, that the allowance had been accepted
in good faith, in the honest belief that the payment was
justified by the 10th covenant, and also in the honest be-

lief that the allowance was properly and legally noted and
provided for in the filed and published tariffs."

The Company offered evidence that would support the
following findings:
(1) At the time the note was made, the Company was
informed of it, but was advised that the note had been
made part of the tariff in full compliance with the Act of
1906, and that being so the payment and receipt of the
allowance would comply with the tariff and the law and
the officers of the Company relied on this judgment.
(2) Between 1906 and the date of the indictment 262
tariffs, all containing the note, had been filed and accepted
by the Commission.
(3) In 1908 the Company had been informed by the
Railroad that the Commission (acting through one of the
Commission's important officers who was in charge of the
tariffs) had specifically approved the form of the tariff
containing the note, in spite of the fact that the amount of
the allowance had not been specified therein, the Commis-

sion at the time having the question under consideration,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

By reason cf such information the Company honestly believed that the receipt of the allowance was not in violation
of the tariff or the act, but was in compliance therewith.
(4) The Company's books, records and accounts were
examined by the Commission's investigators in 1909, and
the Commission was thereby informed that the Company
had received and was receiving the allowance, but the
Commission did not object either to the form or the substance of the practice.
"The Company's evidence concerning good faith was
received under the Government's objection, and the Goverment offered evidence in contradiction thereof. At
the close of the trial the court struck out all the evidence
on this subject from the record, and refused to submit the
question of good faith to the jury, holding that the Company's honest belief that the allowance was permitted by
the tariffs and the footnote thereto could not affect the
issue, for the reason that the Company knew the contents
of the tariffs, and knew also that the allowance was actually made and received."
The certificate asks the following questions:
"1. In the criminal prosecution of a shipper for knowingly accepting transportation at less than the duly established rate by receiving an allowance that was referred to
in the tariff but was not specified in figures therein, has the
defendant a right to offer evidence that the allowance was
received under the honest belief that it was lawfully established by the tariff, and under the honest belief that in receiving it he was not disregarding what he believed to be
the provisions of the tariff but was complying therewith?
"2. Upon the foregoing facts, and in view of the kind
and amount of evidence offered upon the subject of good
faith, did the district court err in the present case by refusing to submit the question to the jury? "
The questions asked depend upon the construction of the
Elkins Act, as enacted in 1903 (32 Stat. 847) the relevant

LEHIGH COAL & NAV. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
556.

563

Opinion of the Court.

part of which is as follows: "

.

.

It shall be unlawful

for any person, persons, or corporation to offer, grant, or
give or to solicit, accept, or receive any rebate, concession,
or discrimination in respect of the transportation of any
property in interstate or foreign commerce by any common
carrier subject to said Act to regulate commerce and the
Acts amendatory thereto whereby any such property shall
by any device whatever be transported at a less rate than that
named in the tariffs published and filed by such carrier [italics ours]

.

.

."

And under an amendment in 1906

(34 Stat. 584) an offender, "whether carrier or shipper,
who shall, knowingly, offer, grant, or give, or solicit, accept, or receive any such rebate, concession, or discrimination shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor."
The way to a correct construction of the act was to an
extent cleared by the case of Armour Packing Co. v.
United States, 209 U. S. 56. Its evolution was there detailed. It was said that carrier and shipper are charged
with an equal responsibility and liability and that the act
"proceeded upon broad lines" to accomplish this equality,
and "that the only rate charged to any shipper for the
same service under the same conditions should be the one
established, published and posted as required by law."
And this was declared in various ways to be the test of
obligation and liability and the "form by which or the
motive for which" its evasion or disregard is accomplished
is not of modifying or determining consideration. It was
in effect decided that the purpose of the statute took
emphasis and meaning from the use of the word "device,"
and "device" was defined to be "anything which is a
plan or contrivance" and is "disassociated" from qualification and "need not be necessarily fraudulent," and by
it the act sought "to reach all means and methods by
which the unlawful preference of rebate, concession or discrimination is offered, granted, given or received."
It is in effect the contention of the Government that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

language of the case exhausts definition and excludes the
supposition of the questions of the Circuit Court of Appeals. We are unable to concur. The language of the case
is easily explained by the question that was presented for
decision. The Armour Packing Company contended that
the act was directed only at fraudulent conduct, the obtaining of a rebate by some dishonest or underhand
method, concession or discrimination. The language of
the court was addressed to this contention and its selection and adequacy are manifest.
No such contention is made in the case at bar and there
are other distinguishing elements. It will be observed
that by the statute and the decision the test of equality is
the tariff rate. It was said in the opinion that it is "the
purpose of the act to punish those who give or receive
transportation, in the sense of actual carriage, at a concession from the published rates" (New York CentralR. R.
Co. v. United States, 212 U. S. 500, 505). And such was
the offense of the Armour Packing Company. There was
no evasion of the tariff rate in the case at bar. The filed
tariff indicated the existence and obligation of the 10th
covenant of the lease from the Company to the Railroad,
that is, the fact of the allowance was declared, though it
did not have specification in figures. The tariff, of course,
would have been more definite and complete with such
specification, but its sufficiency was certainly believed in,
for between 1906 and the date of the indictment it had 262
repetitions. The Company was given besides the assurance that it had the sanction of the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
There was no attempt at deception. The Commission
knew by examination of the Company's books of the
allowance and the amount of the allowance. Such, then,
is the situation, and distinguishes the case from the Armour
Packing Company Case. There there was an omission to
comply with the statute and the omission was attempted to

LEHIGH COAL & NAV. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
556.

565

Opinion of the Court.

be justified by honesty of motive and purpose; here there
was compliance or attempted compliance with the statute-a tariff filed-and if a question could be raised upon
its legal sufficiency the belief of the Company in its legality
was supported by high authority and those circumstances
can bring into action and exculpating effect the provision
of the statute which requires the acceptance of a rebate to
be "knowingly" done to incur the guilt of a misdemeanor.
This conclusion gives no detrimental example against the
efficacy of the law.
We think this comment and conclusion enough to dispose of the questions asked and that there is no necessity
to review the cases cited by the Company or the Government.
Some of the contentions of the Government we may
notice. It is contended that the "lateral allowance" provided for in the 10th covenant and footnote to the tariff
was not for transportation services and besides that there
was no testimony whatsoever that the meaning of any
provision of the tariff was misunderstood. The mistake,
if any, it is hence insisted, was a mistake of law, not of
fact. Two deductions are hence made by the Government: (1) That the allowances were not made for transportation services; (2) mistake of law is irrelevant to the
question of the guilt or innocence of the Company.
To the first we may reply it is not involved as an element in the question asked of this court and if it have any
justification, as to which we express no opinion, it no
doubt will be considered by the Circuit Court of Appeals
upon the return of the case. The other expresses a refinement. Indeed, the contention of the Government issomewhat elusive and we are not sure that we exactly estimate
it. It is said "The sole misunderstanding which the
excluded testimony tended to show would consist in supposing that the 'allowances' could be justified by the footnote in the tariff and that, as we have seen, would be a

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

misunderstanding of the Elkins Act, not of the tariff."
We are unable to concur. There was no misunderstanding of the Elkins Act or what it required. The misunderstanding was induced by practice and the opinion of those
in authority that the act was complied with and the word
"knowingly" therefore, as we have already indicated,
must be considered and given exculpating effect if error
there was.
We therefore answer the first question in the affirmative, but as explained by reference to the certificate of
facts above. We do not think it is necessary to answer the
second question.
MR.JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

took no part in the decision.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 53.

Argued October 24, 1919.-Decided November 10, 1919.

A writ of error will lie to a judgment of the Superior Court of Pennsylvania upholding a law of the State against an objection based on the
Federal Constitution, if the Supreme Court of the State refuses
to allow an appeal. P. 568.
Want of power in a state commission to consider the constitutionality
of a law which it seeks to enforce can not limit the right of a party
affected to raise the question in the state courts. Id.
As applied to an interstate train terminated by a mail car, the law of
Pennsylvania (Laws 1911, p. 1053, ยง 7), forbidding the operation

