OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

1874, c. 395, 18 Stat. 193, affords a basis for the recovery.
That section provided for reimbursement for horses lost
in the military service, among other things "in consequence of the United States failing to supply sufficient
forage." The 1874 amendment provided for reimbursement in any case "where the loss resulted from any exigency or necessity of the military service, unless it was
caused by the fault or negligence of such officers or enlisted men." Even if these statutes were applicable to
facts like those presented here, there could be no recovery; because under the Acts of January 9, 1883, c. 15,
22 Stat. 401, and August 13, 1888, c. 868, 25 Stat. 437,
the right to present claims under ยง 3482 of the Revised
Statutes as amended finally expired in 1891. See Griffis
v. United States, 52 Ct. Clms. 1, 170.
The Court of Claims was without jurisdiction in either
case, and the judgments are
Reversed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY ET
AL. v. PUGET SOUND & WILLAPA HARBOR
RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 327.

Argued April 28, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

A railroad company by constructing its road gains no vested right to
the retention of a general rule of law, then in existence, laying the expense of installing and maintaining required safety devices, where one
railroad exercises its right to cross another, upon the company making the crossing; and it is not deprived of its property without due
process by a change of the rule under which it is required to share
such expense equally with a junior company. P. 335.
94 Washington, 10; 97 id. 701, affirmed.

NORTHERN PAC. RY. v. PUGET SOUND RY.
332.

333

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lorenzo B. da Ponte, with whom Mr. Charles W.
Bunn, Mr. Charles Donnelly, Mr. W. V. Tanner, Attorney
General of the State of Washington, and Mr. Hance H.
Cleland, Assistant Attorney General of the State of Washington, were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Heman H. Field, with whom Mr. Burton Hanson
and Mr. F. M. Dudley were on the brief, for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The defendant in error, Puget Sound & Willapa Harbor
Railway Company, hereinafter designated the Willapa
Company, a railroad corporation organized under the
laws of the State of Washington, in the construction of
a new line of railroad in 1914, found it necessary to cross
at grade, at two places, tracks which had been constructed
in 1890-1892 by the plaintiff in error, Northern Pacific
Railway Company, hereinafter designated the Pacific
Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the
State of Wisconsin.
In appropriate proceedings, provided for by the state
law, the Public Service Commission of the State of Washington granted authority and permission to the Willapa
Company to cross the tracks of the Pacific Company at
grade at the two designated places. This permission was
subject to the condition that suitable interlocking devices, of a type to be agreed upon between the two companies, should be installed at the crossings. The companies agreed upon all of the conditions involved in the
crossing of their tracks, excepting as to the cost of installing and maintaining the required interlocking devices,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

and upon due submission of this question to the commission it was decided that the entire expense should be
borne by the junior, the Willapa Company. The Superior Court affirmed this holding by the commission,
but on appeal the Supreme Court of the State, in the
decision which we are reviewing, reversed the two lower
tribunals and ruled that the expense should be divided
equally between the two companies.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Washington is
based upon the interpretation which it placed upon
applicable state statutes enacted in 1913 (c. 30, Laws of
Washington, 1913, p. 74), and the case is presented to
this court on the single assignment of error:
"The State Supreme Court erred in holding and deciding that Chapter 30 of the Laws of 1913, as construed
and applied to the facts of this case, is not repugnant to
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States."
Conceding that the construction placed upon the state
statute by the State Supreme Court will be accepted by
this court, the contention of the Pacific Company is that
when that company entered the State of Washington and
constructed its line, an act of the legislature, passed in
1888, was in effect, which gave to railway companies
formed under the act the right to cross any other railway theretofore constructed, but subject to conditions
which the State Supreme Court held, in 1908, in State v.
Northern Pacific Railway Company, 49 Washington, 78,
required the junior company to pay the entire cost of the
crossing, including the installing and maintaining of interlocking devices where necessary; that this constituted
a vested right of property in the senior company, and that
the later statute of 1913, which the Supreme Court held
in this case required it to bear one-half of the cost of installing and maintaining the interlocker, deprived it of
its property without due process of law.

NORTHERN PAC. RY. v. PUGET SOUND RY. 335
332.

Opinion of the Court.

It is admitted in argument that the act assailed would
be validly applicable to apportioning the cost of crossings
of highways and railroads regardless of the dates of their
construction, (New York & New England R. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556; Chicago,Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co.
v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226), and that it would be valid as
applied to crossings of railroad lines constructed prior to its
enactment where no contract had been entered into with
respect to the protection of the crossing. Detroit &c.
Railway v. Osborn, 189 U. S. 383. But it is contended that
it is not a valid law as applied to the case at bar, where
the road of the Pacific Company was constructed at a
time when the state law imposed the entire cost of the
construction and maintenance of the crossing upon the
junior company.
Obviously this is a slender thread on which to hang a
grave constitutional argument, and it is difficult to treat
it seriously.
At most the earlier statute, and the interpretation
which the State Supreme Court placed upon it, was a rule
of law applicable to the assessment of damages in a proceeding to appropriate a crossing to which a junior company was entitled by the statute. It was no part of the
charter of the Pacific Company, which was organized
under the Wisconsin law, and that company had no vested
right to insist that the rule should not be changed by
statute or by court decision. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v.
Miller, 132 U. S. 75, 83; Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v.
Tranbarger,238 U. S. 67, 76; New York Central R. R. Co.
v. White, 243 U. S. 188, 189; and Chicago & Alton R. R.
Co. v. McWhirt, 243 U. S. 422-5.
While this is sufficient to dispose of the case, it may be
added that the Act of 1913 was passed in an obviously
legitimate and customary exercise of the police power of
the State to protect travelers and employees from injury
and death at such crossings, and also to protect property in

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

the custody of the carriers from damage. It has long been
settled law that the imposing of uncompensated charges,
involved in obeying a law, passed in a reasonable exercise
of the police power, is not a taking of property without
due process of law, within the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 170
U. S. 57, 73, 74; New Orleans Gas Light Co. v. Drainage
Commission, 197 U. S. 453, 461, 462; Northern Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Duluth, 208 U. S. 583, 594; Chicago & Alton R. R. Co.
v. Tranbarger, 238 U. S. 67, 76.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington is
Affirmed.

MINERALS SEPARATION, LIMITED, ET AL. v.
BUTTE & SUPERIOR MINING COMPANY,
DESIGNATED AS BUTTE & SUPERIOR COP-PER COMPANY, LIMITED.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 599.

Argued March 19, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

Patent No. 835,120, for improvements in the process of concentrating
ores, by means of oils, etc., sustained as to claims Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 and
12. P. 339. Minerals Separation, Ltd., v. Hyde, 242 U. S. 261,
approved.
These claims, as now and heretofore upheld by this court, cover the
use, in the process, of the oils of the patent in amounts equal to any
fraction of one per cent. on the ore. P. 341.
The oils contemplated by the patent include not only pine oil and other
oils referred to in the testimony, but not in the patent, as "frothing
oils," but also the petroleum products kerosene and fuel oil, which
though less efficient are useful in the patented process. P. 344.

