OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

The objection that the ordinance offends against the
commerce clause of the Constitution is not tenable. The
ordinance makes no discrimination against interstate
commerce, will not impede its movement in regular
course, and will affect it only incidentally and indirectly.
South Covington Ry. Co. v. Covington, 235 U. S. 537, 540;
Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52, 58, 60. The case of
Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Kaw Valley Drainage
District,233 U. S. 75, obviously is not to the contrary.
Judgment affirmed.

THE, LAKE MONROE. 1
ON PETITION FOR WRITS OF PROHIBITION OR MANDAMUS.

No. 30, Original. Argued April 21, 22, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.
Under the Act of June 15, 1917, c. 29, 40 Stat. 182, empowering the
President, inter alia, to requisition private shipping for use and

operation by the United States, permitting the exercise of the power
through such agencies as he may determine, and providing that ships
so requisitioned shall be managed, operated and disposed of as he may
direct; and under the President's order of July 11, 1917, delegating
those powers for exercise by the Shipping Board and Emergency
Fleet Corporation, a ship in course of construction was requisitioned
and completed by the Corporation, documented in the name of the
United States, and operated by the Board through the Corporation
and a private firm, who, as managing and operating agents of the
Board, chartered her to a private company for the coastwise carriage
of a private cargo of coal. While so engaged a collision occurred, and
the vessel was libeled in the District Court. Held, that the District
Court had jurisdiction to arrest the vessel, under § 9 of the Shipping
Board Act of September 7, 1916, c. 451, 39 Stat. 728, providing that
vessels purchased, chartered, or leased by the Board, "while emI The docket title of this case is: Ex parte: In the Matter of the
United States, Petitioner.

THE LAKE MONROE.
246.

Counsel for the United States.

ployed solely as merchant vessels shall be subject to all laws, regulations, and liabilities governing merchant vessels, whether the United
States be interested therein as owner, in whole or in part, or hold any
mortgage, lien, or other interest therein," which provision was reenacted by the Act of July 15, 1918, c. 152, 40 Stat. 900, amending
the Shipping Board Act. P. 253.
It is not to be assumed that Congress intended that the power given by
the Act of June 15, 1917, supra, should be exercised by the President
arbitrarily or that the President by his order intended to vest absolute
powers in the Shipping Board and Fleet Corporation, subject only
to such regulations as he might from time to time prescribe. Id.
On the contrary, in view of the establishment of the Board and the
Corporation as government agencies, broadly empowered and definitely restricted under the Shipping Act, and of the mention of that
act in the Act of June 15, 1917, supra, it is to be presumed that Congress at least expected that those agencies would be used under the
latter act, and that the President, in employing them thereunder,
did so because of those powers and restrictions, already provided. Id.
This view is confirmed by the Act of July 15, 1918, supra, and the
companion measure of July 18, 1918, c. 157, 40 Stat. 913, read with
the House and Senate reports accompanying the bills. P. 255.
The words "purchased, chartered, or leased," in § 9, supra, of the
Shipping Act, cover a contract for the temporary use of a vessel or
its services not amounting to a demise, "charter" being employed
here in a sense as broad as the definition in the Act of July 18, 1918,
supra, defining it as "any agreement, contract, lease, or commitment
by which the possession or services of a vessel are secured for a period
of time, or for one or more voyages, whether or not a demise of the
vessel." Id.
Construing § 9 of the Shipping Act as a whole, the vessel in this case
was employed "solely as a merchant vessel," though assigned to the
New England coal trade when the Government was rationing the
coal supply of the country as a war measure. P. 256.
Order to show cause discharged.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Brown, with whom Mr.
Chas. H. Weston and Mr. J. Frank Staley were on the brief,

for the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Mr. Edward E. Blodgett, with whom Mr. Foye M. Murphy and Mr. Albert T. Gould were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Upon petition of the United States this court granted
an order to show cause why a writ of prohibition or mandamus should not be issued in order to prevent the United
States District Court for the District of Massachusetts,
sitting in admiralty, from directing the seizure, attachment, or arrest of a steam vessel known as the Lake Monroe, owned and operated by the Government of the United
States, to satisfy a claim of the master and part owner of
the American auxiliary fishing schooner Helena for damages arising out of a collision between the two vessels
which occurred on October 8, 1918, off the coast of Cape
Cod.
A libel having been filed in the District Court in behalf
of the Helena against the Lake Monroe to recover damages,
and praying that process issue for the seizure and attachment of the steamship, the United States, appearing
specially, filed suggestions to the effect that, as the steamer
was the property of the United States and in its possession
and control, the court was without jurisdiction to enforce
claims against her by process.
The essential facts are as follows: The Lake Monroe,
while in process of construction on the Great Lakes, was
requisitioned and completed by the United States Shipping
Board Emergency Fleet Corporation, and on completion
was delivered to the United States Shipping Board for
operation, and thereafter assigned by that board, through
the Emergency Fleet Corporation, to the firm of William
H. Randall & Company, of Boston, as operating and
managing agents, that firm being a copartnership having
experience in the operation of privately owned vessels for

THE LAKE MONROE.
246.

Opinion of the Court.

commercial purposes. They selected the master and other
officers of the vessel, put them in charge of her, and furnished her crew; and thereafter they manned, equipped,
and repaired her, collected freight moneys from the consignees, and paid the expenses of manning, equipping,
and supplying her, and other running expenses, and for
these services they were to be paid by, and were to account for the moneys received by them to, the Emergency
Fleet Corporation as the agent of the United States Shipping Board. At the time of the collision the Lake Monroe
was loaded with coal, and operating under a charter executed by Randall & Company, as agents of the Shipping
Board, to the New England Fuel & Transportation Company, a private concern in Boston; the cargo having been
purchased from a private owner for private use, and the
freight for its carraige paid by the Transportation Company to Randall & Company.
The District Court, conceding that the Lake Monroe,
being a government-owned vessel, would be exempt from
arrest except for the provisions of § 9 of the Shipping Board
Act of September 7, 1916, c. 451, 39 Stat. 728, 730, held
that, because at the time of the collision she was employed
solely as a merchant vessel, by the terms of that section
she was subject to arrest on process in rem to answer for
the collision.
It is the principal contention of the Government that
the Shipping Board Act has no application to the Lake
Monroe because she was requisitioned by the President
through the Emergency Fleet Corporation under the
authority of other legislation, was documented in the
name of the United States, and then employed by the
President through the Shipping Board and the Fleet Corporation. This contention renders it necessary to review
the several acts of legislation and the executive action
that has been had pursuant thereto.
The Act of September 7, 1916, passed before the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

States entered the great war but when our commerce already was feeling the ill effects of the world wide shortage
in shipping occasioned by that war, is entitled "An Act
To establish a United States Shipping Board for the purpose of encouraging, developing, and creating a naval
auxiliary and naval reserve and a merchant marine to
meet the requirements of the commerce of the United
States with its Territories and possessions and with foreign countries; to regulate carriers by water engaged in the
foreign and interstate commerce of the United States;
and for other purposes." It created a board of five commissioners, and authorized them (§ 5) with the approval of
the President, to cause to be constructed and equipped, in
American shipyards or elsewhere, or to purchase, lease, or
charter "vessels suitable, as far as the commercial requirements of the marine trade of the United States may
permit, for use as naval auxiliaries or Army transports,
or for other naval or military purposes," and also (§ 7)
to charter, lease, or sell to any citizen of the United States,
any vessel so purchased or constructed.
The important § 9, in its original form, provided as
follows: "Sec. 9. That any vessel purchased, chartered,
or leased from the board may be registered or enrolled and
licensed, or both registered and enrolled and licensed, as a
vessel of the United States and entitled to the benefits
and privileges appertaining thereto: Provided, That
foreign-built vessels admitted to American registry or
enrollment and license under this Act, and vessels owned,
chartered, or leased by any corporation in which the
United States is a stockholder, and vessels sold, leased, or
chartered to any person a citizen of the United States, as
provided in this Act, may engage in the coastwise trade
of the United States. Every vessel purchased, chartered,
or leased from the board shall, unless otherwise authorized
by the board, be operated only under such registry or
enrollment and license. Such vessels while employed solely

THE LAKE MONROE.
246.

Opinion of the Court.

as merchant vessels shall be subject to all laws, regulations,
and liabilitiesgoverning merchant vessels, whether the United
States be interested therein as owner, in whole or in part, or
hold any mortgage, lien, or other interest therein." There
followed prohibitions not necessary now to be particularly
considered.
Section 11 authorized the Shipping Board to form one
or more corporations under the laws of the District of
Columbia for the purchase, construction, equipment,
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of merchant
vessels in the commerce of the United States, the total
capital stock not to exceed $50,000,000, and the Board to
acquire for and on behalf of the United States not less than
a majority of the capital stock. The act contained numerous provisions imposing duties upon common carriers
by water, and conferring powers of regulation upon the
Shipping Board.
The members of this Board were appointed by the
President in December, 1916, and, having been confirmed
by the Senate, were formally organized in the following
month.
By the time the United States declared war, April 6,
1917, the world's merchant shipping had reached the
stage of demoralization. The President, by a proclamation dated February 5, 1917, had declared an emergency,
and brought into play the prohibition of one of the clauses
of § 9 of the above act, against the sale, lease, or charter
to a person not a citizen of the United States or the transfer to a foreign registry or flag of any vessel registered or
enrolled and licensed under the laws of the United States.
Soon after the declaration of war the Shipping Board,
under authority of § 11 of the above act, caused to be
organized (April 16, 1917) under the laws of the District
of Columbia a corporation known as the United States
Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation, with
$50,000,000 of capital stock, all owned by the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

States. It was officered by the commissioners of the Shipping Board and their nominees, and was but an operating
agency of that Board.
In this state of affairs, Congress embodied in the Urgent Deficiencies Appropriation Act of June 15, 1917, c.
29, 40 Stat. 182, a clause entitled "Emergency Shipping
Fund," which conferr-1 upon the President broad powers
of control over con.,racts for the building, production,
or purchase of ships or material, and among others the
power "To purchase, requisition, or take over the title to,
or the possession of, for use or operation by the United
States any ship now constructed or in the process of construction or hereafter constructed, or any part thereof,
or charter of such ship." Another clause declared: "The
President may exercise the power and authority hereby
vested in him . . . through such agency or agencies
as he shall determine from time to time: Provided, That
all money turned over to the United States Shipping
Board Emergency Fleet Corporation may be expended as
other moneys of said corporation are now expended. All
ships constructed, purchased, or requisitioned under
authority herein, or heretofore or hereafter acquired by
the United States, shall be managed, operated, and disposed of as the President may direct."
Under this authority the President made an executive
order July 11, 1917, directing that the Fleet Corporation
should have and exercise all power and authority vested
in him by said provision, so far as applicable to the construction of vessels, the purchase or requisitioning of
vessels in process of construction, and the completion
thereof, and that the Shipping Board should exercise all
power and authority vested in him by said provision, so
far as applicable to the taking over of title or possession,
by purchase or requisition, of constructed vessels or charters therein, and the operation, management and disposition of such vessels, and of all others theretofore or there-

THE LAKE MONROE.
246.

Opinion of the Court.

after acquired by the United States, declaring: "The
powers herein delegated to the United States Shipping
Board may, in the discretion of said Board, be exercised
directly by the said Board or by it through the United
States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation, or
through any other corporation organized by it for such
purpose." It was under the authority thus conferred that
the Lake Monroe was requisitioii, u while in process of
construction and carried to completion by the Fleet Corporation, and thereafter operated by the Shipping Board
through that corporation. She was documented in the
name of the United States, and assigned to Randall &
Company as operating and managing agents, and at the
time of the collision was operating under a charter executed by them as agents of the Shipping Board to a private concern for carrying coal in coastwise commerce.
Reference should be made to two acts, approved respectively July 15 and July 18, 1918, the former an amendment to the Shipping Act of 1916, the latter "An Act to
confer on the President power to prescribe charter rates
and freight rates and to requisition vessels, and for other
purposes." (Cc. 152 and 1.57, 40 Stat. 900, 913). They
were introduced as companion measures, the former a,
H. R. 12,100, the latter as H. R. 12,099, and proceeded
paripassu through Congress. The Act of July 15 amended
§ 9 of the Shipping Act of 1916 with respect to some of its
prohibitions, but reenacted almost verbatim the part we
have quoted from that section. The Act of July 18 begins
with some definitions, and among them: "The term
'charter' means any agreement, contract, lease, or commitment by which the possession or services of a vessel
are secured for a period of time, or for one or more voyages, whether or not a demise of the vessel."
In view of this legislation we regard the contention of
the Government that the Shipping Act of 1916 has no
application to the Lake Monroe as untenable. The argu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

ment adduced in support of it would cause the restrictive
provisions of the Act of 1916 to operate only with respect
to vessels constructed or acquired under that particular
act and would render the powers conferred upon the Shipping Board and the Fleet Corporation by the executive
order of July 11, 1917, absolute powers; subject to no
regulation except such as the President might from time
to time prescribe.
But at the time of the emergency provision of June 15,
1917, the Shipping Board had been established as a public
commission, with broad administrative powers and subject to definite restrictions, and the Fleet Corporation had
been created as its agency, financed with public funds.
The emergency shipping legislation evidently was enacted
in the expectation that the President would employ the
Shipping Board and the Fleet Corporation as his agencies
to exercise the new powers, for the Fleet Corporation was
mentioned in the act, and it was known to be but an arm
of the Board. It is not necessary to hold that Congress,
while entertaining this expectation, went to the extent of
restricting the President to those agencies; but it is not to
be believed that they intended he should exercise the
powers arbitrarily. And when in fact he designated the
Fleet Corporation to exercise those powers so far as they
pertained to the construction of vessels and the requisitioning of vessels in process of construction, and the Shipping Board so far as they applied to the operation, management, and disposition of vessels, it is to be presumed
that he did so because of the general powers that already
had been conferred upon them by law, and because they
were subject to the regulatory provisions that Congress
had enacted.
The provision of § 9 of the Act of September 7, 1916,
that vessels purchased, chartered, or leased from the
Shipping Board, while employed solely as merchant vessels, should be subject to all laws, regulations, and liabili-

THE LAKE MONROE.
246.

Opinion of the Court.

ties governing merchant vessels, whether the United States
were interested therein as owner or otherwise, was a most
material restriction, deemed by Congress to be essential to
subject them to the same duties and liabilities as privately
owned merchant vessels with which they competed.
That Congress considered this provision and the other
provisions of the Act of 1916 as having living force and
general application after the executive order of July 11,
1917, is manifest from the amendatory Act approved
July 15, 1918, while the war was at its height, and treated
by Congress as an emergency war measure. See House
Rep. 568 and Senate Rep. 536, 65th Cong., 2d sess.; also
House Rep. 569 and Senate Rep. 535, same session, relating to the companion measure. These reports and the
accompanying bills show that the Shipping Board was
understood to be executing all its powers under the regulations prescribed by the Act of 1916.
The Government contends further that § 9 of that act
has no application to the present case because liability is
imposed thereby only with respect to vessels "purchased,
chartered, or leased from" the Shipping Board, and only
when "employed solely as merchant vessels"; it being
insisted that the Lake Monroe does not come within either
of these descriptions. The return however, makes it
clear that at the time of the collision she was operating
under a charter executed by the agents of the Board to a
certain coal company; and even were it merely an agreement whereby the shippers paid a stipulated rate per ton
for the cargo carried, we think that this would be a charter
within the meaning of the Act of 1916. The words "purchased, chartered, or leased" indicate an intent to include
a contract for the temporary use of a vessel or its services,
not amounting to a demise of the ship; in short, the term
"charter" was here employed in a sense as broad as the
definition afterwards embodied in the Act of July 18, 1918.
We cannot accede to the suggestion that the Lake Mon-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

roe was not employed "solely as a merchant vessel" because she was assigned to the New England coal trade,
and because at that time the Government, through the
Fuel Administration, was rationing the coal supply of the
country. The language of §9 "such vessels while employed
solely as merchant vessels" must be read in connection
with the phrase "whether the United States be interested
therein as owner, in whole or in part, or hold any mortgage,
lien, or other interest therein." Her service at the time
was purely commercial, and she was subject by the terms
of the act to the ordinary liability of a merchant vessel,
notwithstanding the indirect interest of the Government
in the outcome of her voyage.
We deem it clear, also, that among the liabilities designated by the section is the liability of a merchant vessel
to be subjected to judicial process in admiralty for the
consequences of a collision.
Order to show cause discharged and petition dismissed.

LINCOLN GAS & ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY
v. CITY OF LINCOLN ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 52.

Argued October 5, 8, 1917.-Decided June 2, 1919.

A gas company, pending a suit to declare a rate ordinance confiscatory,
put the rate in effect as a test, under a stipulation that such action
should not be construed as an acceptance of or compliance with the
ordinance or be "shown in evidence or presented to the court in the
above entitled cause, or used in any way by either party to influence
the action of the court in the disposition of the case." Held, that
this in effect relieved the defendant from obligation to observe the

