GROESBECK v. DULUTH, S. S. & A. RY. CO.
603.

607

Syllabus.

adequately complained of are enforced contribution to
expense of the banking department and threats by defendants to make examinations and reports. And we think
it clear that no impairment of the corporate charter has
resulted or will result from reasonable examinations and
reports by duly authorized officers and the small prescribed payments. It is unnecessary to consider other
distinct provisions of the statute, and, of course, we intimate no opinion concerning them.
The Supreme Court of the State affirmed a decree of the

Chancery Court dismissing the bill upon demurrer, and
its action must be

Afirmed.

GROESBECK ET AL. v. DULUTH, SOUTH SHORE
& ATLANTIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 254.

Argued October 15, 1919.-Decided November 10, 1919.

The laws of Michigan prescribing a maximum intrastate passenger fare
for railroads whose gross passenger earnings equalled a certain
amount per mile required that all lines of a railroad within the
State should be treated as a unit in computing such earnings, and
in applying the rate limitation. In determining whether the rate
was confiscatory in this caseHeld: (1) In the absence of any suggestion of illegality or mismanagement in acquisition or operation, all parts of the railroad's
system within the State, profitable or unprofitable, should be emraced in the computation. P. 611.
(2) Unremunerative parts were not to be excluded because built and
used primarily for interstate traffic (p. 611), or because not required
to supply local transportation needs (p. 612); nor was a reasonable,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

though unremunerative, extension of service because furnished by
acquiring traffic rights from another company. P. 613.
(3) Sleeping car, parlor car and dining car services should not be
treated as separate operations, but the passenger service, including
these facilities, must be treated as a whole. Id.
(4) In the present state of railroad accounting, what formula should be
adopted for dividing charges and expenses common to freight and
passenger services and not capable of direct allocation, is a question
of fact rather than of law; and the court cannot say that the trial
court erred in adopting the method pursued in this case. P. 614.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Leland W. Carrand Mr. Roger I. Wykes, with whom
Mr. Alex. J. Groesbeck, Attorney General of the State of
Michigan, was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. John E. Tracy, with whom Mr. William D. McHugh
was on the briefs, for appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE, BANDEI~s delivered the opinion of the
court.
The constitution of Michigan (Article XII, ยง 7) authorizes the legislature to pass laws establishing "reasonable
maximum rates of charges for the transportation of passengers and freight." In 1907 it fixed two cents a mile as
the maximum intrastate passenger fare on railroads operating in the Lower Peninsula and three cents for those in
the Upper. By Act approved May 2, 1911 (Public Laws
No. 276), the two-cent rate was made applicable to all the
railroads of the State whose gross earnings on passenger
trains equal or exceed $1,200 per mile of line operated.
Before the statute took effect, the Duluth, South Shore and
Atlantic Railway Company, an interstate carrier operating
in the Upper Peninsula, brought this suit in the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of

GROESBECK v. DULUTH, S. S. & A. RY. CO. 609
607. ,

Opinion of the Court.

Michigan to enjoin the enforcement of the act. The bill
alleged that the reduced rate would deprive plaintiff of its
property without due process of law in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment. The Attorney General and the
Railroad Commissioners of the State, being charged by
the law with its enforcement, were made defendants.
They denied that the rate was confiscatory; and on this
issue the District Court found for the Railway. A final
decree granting the relief sought was filed February 14,
1918; and an appeal to this court was promptly applied
for by the defendants and allowed. Meanwhile, on January 1, 1918, the Federal Government had taken over the
operation of this and other railroads, and is still operating
the same. The two-cent rate was never put into effect on
this railroad, as a restraining order issued upon the filing
of the bill was continued until entry of the final decree. In
1919 the statute attacked here was repealed (Public Laws
No. 382). But the case has not become moot for the following reason: On continuing the restraining order the
Railway was required to issue to all intrastate passengers
receipts by which it agreed to refund, if the act should be
held valid, the amount paid in excess of a two-cent fare.
Later the Railway was required to deposit, subject to the
order of the court, such amounts thereafter collected. The
fund now on deposit exceeds $800,000, and the refund
coupons are still outstanding. In order to determine the
rights of coupon holders and to dispose of this fund it is
necessary to decide whether the Act of 1911 was, as respects
this railroad, confiscatory.
The issues of fact were tried below with great thoroughness. The case was referred to a special master to hear the
proofs and to report the evidence together with his findings
to the court. The report fills 503 pages of the printed record. The transcript of the testimony introduced before
him covered more than 12,000 typewritten pages; and there
were besides many exhibits. The evidence before the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

master related largely to the results of the operation of the
railroad for the four years ending June 30, 1913. When
the case came on for hearing before the district judge in
1917, supplemental evidence was taken in open court
covering the operations of the four additional years ending
June 30, 1917. The evidence disclosed the usual diversity
of opinion as to the value of the property and as to the
proper method of dividing between the passenger and
freight services the common expenses and the charges for
property used in common. Upon the whole evidence the
court found that the two-cent fare would have resulted in
a return on intrastate passenger business of less than 2 per
cent. during the six years ending June 30, 1917.
Between the commencement of this suit and the entry
of the final decree many of the questions in controversy
below have been settled by the decisions of this court in
other cases.1 The state officials do not deny that there was
legal evidence to justify the findings of fact made by the
lower court; nor do they request that this court should
undertake a general review of the evidence. But they
insist that the finding of the district judge of the low return
is erroneous, and that the error is due partly to his having
included in his calculations property and operations which
1Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union PacificRy. Co., 222 U. S.
541; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Missouri Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 474; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Conley, 230 U. S. 513;
Oregon R. R. & Nay. Co. v. Campbell, 230 U. S. 525; SouthernPacific Co.
v. Campbell, 230 U. S. 537; Allen v. St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co., 230
U. S. 553; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Tucker, 230 U. S. 340; Wood v.
Vandalia R. R. Co., 231 U. S. 1; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Garrett, 231 U. S. 298; In re Englehard, 231 U. S. 646; San Joaquin,etc.,
IrrigationCo. v. Stanislaus County, 233 U. S. 454; Northern Pacific
Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585; Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v.
West Virginia, 236 U. S. 605; Missouri v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. R. Co.,
241 U. S. 533; Rowland v. St. Louis & San FranciscoR. R. Co., 244 U. S.
106; Darnellv. Edwards, 244 U. S. 564; Denver v. Denver Union Water
Co., 246 U. S. 178.

GROESBECK v. DULUTH, S. S. & A. RY. CO.
607.

611

Opinion of the Court.

should have been excluded, and partly to his having
adopted improper formulas for the division of common
charges and expenses as between the freight and the passenger services; and that if these specific errors are corrected it will appear that the two-cent fare would have
been highly remunerative. These alleged errors must be
considered separately.
First:It is contended that the Western Division should
be excluded from the calculation. The Duluth, South
Shore and Atlantic Railway extends from Sault Ste.
Marie to Duluth and has, including branches, 584 miles of
line, 475 of which are in Michigan. The Eastern Division
serves mainly the iron region; the Central, the copper
country; the Western, extending through sparsely settled
country from Nestoria, Michigan, 101 miles to the Wis-consin state line, and thence to Duluth, serves mainly interstate business. This division is said to have been built
not in a desire to serve local needs, but for the purpose of
establishing a through line from Duluth to Sault Ste. Marie.
The statement, if true, furnishes no reason for excluding it
from the calculation. The cost per mile of transporting
passengers varies greatly on different parts of the same
railroad system according to circumstances, being dependent, among other things, upon the cost of the roadbed
and terminals, the grade, the number and character of the
trains, the density of traffic and the length of the haul,
The justification for a uniform fare per mile is furnished
by the doctrine of averages; and the legislature of Michigan made clear its purpose to apply the doctrine of averages in order to give to travellers the benefit of the twocent fare on those portions of a railroad on which travel
was light and the cost of carrying each passenger necessarily far in excess of two cents a mile. For this act declares:
"That in computing the passenger earnings per mile of
any company the earnings and mileage of all branch roads
owned, leased, controlled or occupied or that may here-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

after be owned, leased, controlled or occupied by such company .
.
shall be included in the computation; [i. e.,
determining whether the year's gross passenger earnings
equal $1,200 per mile] and the rate of fare shall be the
same on all lines owned, leased, controlled or occupied by
such company." In other words, the legislature has declared that for the purpose of determining the right of an
intrastate passenger to travel on any part of the company's lines at the rate of two cents a mile, all of the lines
within the State must be treated as one; that those on
which travel is light must be averaged with those on which
it is dense; and obviously also that those parts of the system which are unprofitable must be taken with those
which are profitable. Every part of the railroad system
over which the passenger is entitled by the act to ride for
a two-cent fare must be included in the computation
undertaken to determine whether the prescribed rate is
confiscatory. This is true, at least, in the absence of illegality or mismanagement in the acquisition or operation
of the division in question; and of such there is not even a
suggestion in the record. There is nothing in San Diego
Land & Town Co. v. National City, 174 U. S. 739, 758, or
in San Diego Land & Town Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439,
446, upon which the state officials rely, which is inconsistent with this conclusion.
Second: It is likewise contended that the so-called South
Line between Marquette and Ishpeming should be excluded from the calculation. This line which for miles
substantially parallels the main line, was originally built
as an independent road and was purchased by plaintiff's
predecessor in 1884, probably to avoid ruinous competition. It is used mainly for heavy freight, and the intrastate passenger travel over it is light. It is asserted that
the construction of this road was not required to supply
the transportation needs, and that it would still be possible to carry all existing traffic between Marquette and

GROESBECK v. DULUTH, S. S. & A. RY. C).
607.

613

Opinion of the Court.

Ishpeming over the main line. What has been said above
in regard to the Western Division applies equally to the
South Line.
Third: It is contended also that a loss was incurred in
operating through passenger trains from Houghton over
the Mineral Range Railroad to Calumet and that such
loss should be excluded from this calculation. This extension of plaintiff's service was clearly reasonable in view
of the importance of Calumet, which lies only fourteen
miles from its own lines. It was admitted by the state
officials that passengers on the route were, under the act,
entitled to travel at the two-cent rate. The fact that the
service was furnished by acquiring traffic rights instead of
by building an independent line, clearly affords no reason
for excluding the results of the operation from the calculation.
Fourth:The further contention is made that the sleeping
car, parlor car and dining car services should be treated as
separate operations; that they should be charged with
their proportion of specific and general expenses but credited only with the amounts received from charges for the
specific service; and that no part of the apparent loss on
these services should be taken into consideration in determining whether the two-cent fare is confiscatory. In support of this contention it is urged that these services were
voluntary; that the law (Michigan Public Acts of 1875,
No. 38) permits railroads to make special charges for these
services "in addition to the regular passenger fares allowed
by law," and that travellers in day coaches must not be
allowed to suffer because a railroad fails to make these
services compensatory. On American railroads of importance these services have been well-nigh universal for
more than a generation; and the charges for them are substantially uniform throughout the country. It would be
practically impossible, as it would be obviously unwise,
for a railroad like the plaintiff's either to discontinue the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

services or to increase the charges to cover the cost of the
particular service on its line. It is inconceivable that the
legislature of Michigan should have intended in enacting
the two-cent fare law to deny to its citizens these customary facilities; and for the purpose of determining whether
the act is confiscatory the passenger service including
these facilities must be treated as a whole. The fact alleged that these facilities are used mainly by interstate
travellers is immaterial.
Fifth: The remaining objection relates to the formula
adopted by the lower court for dividing charges and expenses common to freight and passenger services, and not
capable of direct allocation. What method should be
pursued in making such division is a very difficult problem
to which railroad accountants, the Interstate Commerce
Commission and state railroad commissions have for
years given serious attention.1 Despite much patient
study and the exhibition of great ingenuity no wholly
satisfactory method has yet been devised. The variables
due to local conditions are numerous; and experience
teaches us that it is much easier to reject formulas presented as being misleading than to find one apparently
I The Interstate Commerce Commission upon its organization July 1,
1887, required the railroads to report operating expenses separately as
between the freight and passenger services. The difficulties were so
great and the results so widely discredited that the requirement was
withdrawn as of June 30, 1894. The requirement was restored as of
July 1, 1915. In the Matter of Separation of Operating Expenses, 30
I. C. C. 676. In the interval railroad accounting had in this respect
made gradual advances. T. M. R. Talcott, Transportation by Rail
(1904); Buel v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 1 Wiscon. R. R.
Com. 324 (1907); Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 458-461 (1912);
14th American Railway Engineering Association Proceedings, pp. 587,
1128-1135 (1913); Western PassengerFares, 37 I. C. C. 1, 12-30 (1915):
see M. 0. Lorenz Railroad Rate Making, 30 Quarterly Journal of
Economics, pp. 221-232 (1916); W. J. Cunningham, The Separation
of Railroad Operating Expenses between Freight and Passenger Services, 31 Quarterly Journal of Economics, pp. 200-249 (1917).

GROESBECK v. DULUTH, S. S. & A. RY. CO.
607.

615

Opinion of the Court.

adequate. The science of railroad accounting is in this
respect in process of development; and it may be long before a formula is devised which can be accepted as satisfactory. For the present, at least, the question what formula the trial court should adopt presents a question, not
of law, but of fact; and we are clearly unable to say that
the lower court erred in adopting the method there pursued.1
The decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.
1 The average rate of return for the years 1914-1917 according to the
formula adopted by the trial judge was 1.20%. By the use of a formula
more favorable to the defendant he found it to be 2.52%. The modified revenue train mile ratio used by the plaintiff showed a loss of over
$100,000 a year; while the gross ton mile ratio proposed by the defendant indicated an average return of at most 5.82%. Of these methods employed by the parties it may be noted that the Interstate Commerce Commission has said:
"The representatives of the state commissions advocated the use of
'gross-ton-miles' as a basis, while the representatives of the railways
favored 'engine-ton-miles.' The discussion seemed to be somewhat influenced by the possible effect of these respective bases on statistical
evidence which might be introduced in passenger rate cases. It may
fairly be said that the facts and arguments presented do not warrant
the final approval by the Commission of either the gross-ton-mile or
the locomotive-ton-mile at this time." Rules Governing the Separation of OperatingExpenses Between Freight Service and Passenger Service on Large Steam Railways, Effective July 1, 1915, p. 3. These rules
are now in process of revision.

