RUMELY v. McCARTHY.
Syllabus.

273.

least, the court and grand jury have authority and jurisdiction to investigate the facts in order to determine the
question whether the facts show a case within their
jurisdiction.
The present cases are not exceptional, and for the
reasons that have been outlined we are of opinion that
appellants were not entitled to raise any question about
the constitutionality of the statutes under which the
grand jury's investigation was conducted.
Final orders affirmed.

RUMELY v. McCARTHY, UNITED STATES MARSHAL FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
NEW YORK, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 874.

Submitted April 16, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

Under an indictment charging violations of the Trading with the
Enemy Act of October 6, 1917, c. 106,40 Stat. 411, in failing to report
enemy property and credits, the contention, raised before a commissioner in removal proceedings and based on the allegations and defendant's uncontradicted evidence, that the report, if required,
would show defendant guilty, under the same act, of trading with
the enemy, and thus compel him to be a witness against himself,
contrary to the Fifth Amendment, is matter for defense at the trial
and does not go to the issue of probable cause. P. 287.
A finding of fact made by a commissioner in removal proceedings and
supported by competent evidence is not reviewable in habeas corpus.
P. 289.
The duty, imposed by the Trading with the Enemy Act, § 7a, to make
report of enemy property and credits to the Alien Property Custodian, involves the duty to make it at his office, and a wilful failure
so to make it is an offense, committed in the district where the office
is established. Id.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Where defendant was indicted in the Southern District of New York
for a conspiracy to omit making such a report and for perjury in
verifying a false one, held, that it was discretionary with the court
of that district, without requiring a statement of reasons from the
Government, to order his removal under a later indictment charging
failure to make the report in the District of Columbia, and that the
discretion was not reviewable by this court in habeas corpus. P. 289.
256 Fed. Rep. 565, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Stephen C. Baldwin for appellant. Mr. Frederick
J. Powell and Mr. John M. Lowrie were on the brief.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Brown for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a final order of the District
Court for the Southern District of New York dismissing
writs of habeas corpus and certiorari sued out by appellant to determine the legality of his detention under a
commitment issued by appellee Hitchcock, as United
States Commissioner, to hold appellant in the custody
of the United States Marshal pending the issuance of a
warrant for his removal to the District of Columbia to
answer an indictment returned against him by the grand
jury of that District for an alleged violation of the Act
of Congress of October 6, 1917, c. 106, 40 Stat. 411,
known as the Trading with the Enemy Act.
This indictment, described as the "Washington indictment," contains two counts, each of which recites
the existence, at the time of the offense charged, of a
state of war between the United States and the Imperial
German Government, and sets out that the Act of October 6, 1917, was in force, and that the Alien Property
Custodian, an officer of the United States appointed

RUMELY v. McCARTHY.
283.

Opinion of the Court.

under authority of that act, had his office for the transaction of official business in the District of Columbia and
at no other place. In the first count it is recited that the
statute made it the duty of any person in the United
States having custody or control of any property of or
on behalf of an enemy of the United States to report the
fact to the Alien Property Custodian within a period
said to have expired December 20, 1917; and it is alleged
that on October 6, 1917, and on each day thereafter
down to and including the date of the indictment (December 2, 1918) appellant had the custody and control
of certain property in the United States, that is to say,
certain capital stock of the S. S. McClure Newspaper
Corporation, a corporation of the State of New York,
which, as appellant knew, belonged to the Imperial
German Government; and that appellant "at the District of Columbia, and within the jurisdiction of this
court" willfully failed, neglected, and omitted to report
that fact to the Alien Property Custodian within the
period prescribed by law and continuously down to and
including the date of the indictment. The second count,
in addition to the matter already stated, recites the provision of the act which made it the duty of any person
in the United States indebted to an enemy of the United
States to report the fact to the Custodian within a period
prescribed; and avers that on October 6, 1917, and on
each day thereafter down to, etc., appellant, then being
within the United States, was indebted in the sum of
$1,451,700 to the Imperial German Government as he
well knew, and being so indebted "at the District of
Columbia, and within the jurisdiction of this court"
willfully failed, neglected and omitted to report the fact
of such indebtedness to the Custodian.
Previous to the Washington indictment two indictments had been returned by the United States grand
jury for the Southern District of New York, upon which

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

appellant was on bail awaiting trial. These were found
August 2, 1918; one of them being against appellant alone
and charging perjury in a report made by him December
4, 1917, to the Alien Property Custodian, in that, being
required to state the property held by him for alien
enemies and indebtedness owed by him to alien enemies,
he swore that the only item in this category was a note
for $100,000 made by him and payable to one Herman
Sielcken, whereas it was alleged he was not indebted to
Sielcken but was indebted to the Imperial German Government in the sum of $1,301,700, and held and had
control of certain property belonging to that government, consisting of shares of the capital stock of the S. S.
McClure Newspaper Corporation, a corporation of the
State of New York, which facts appellant did not report
to the Custodian. In the other New York indictment
appellant and one Kaufmann were indicted for a conspiracy to omit to report to the Custodian the fact that
appellant had in his custody and control certain property
consisting of shares of the capital stock of the S. S.
McClure Newspaper Corporation for and in behalf of
the Imperial German Government, and that appellant was indebted to the said government in the sum of
$1,431,700.
At the hearings before the Commissioner appellant admitted his identity and offered no evidence to meet the
prima facie case made by producing an exemplified copy
of the Washington indictment. On the other hand it was
and is admitted in behalf of the Government that the New
York indictments relate to the same transactions as the
Washington indictment, and that they were pending in
the Southern District of New York at the time the Washington indictment was found. To meet objections raised
upon the hearing of the habeas corpus, the District Court
embodied in the final order dismissing the writ clauses to
the following effect:

RUMELY v. McCARTHY.
283.

Opinion of the Court.

(a) One giving the consent of that court to the removal
of defendant to the District of Columbia notwithstanding
the pendency of the indictments in the New York District;
(b) One directing a stay of removal pending appeal to
this court;
(c) And one directing that, within thirty days after
appellant had pleaded to the Washington indictment, the
United States Attorney either for the Southern District
of New York or for the District of Columbia should give
him at least two weeks' notice as to which indcctment it
was intended to move first for trial.
Appellant's first point is that in a legal sense there was
no probable cause to believe that he had been guilty of the
offense charged in the Washington indictment because he
could not be required to make a report to the Alien Property Custodian of the facts alleged in that indictment, since
this would compel him in a criminal case to be a witness
against himself, contrary to the provision of the Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States in
that behalf. As a basis for this contention appellant relies upon the uncontroverted averment in the first count
of the Washington indictment that he held stock in the
McClure Corporation for and on behalf of the German
Government and did not report that fact to the Alien
Property Custodian; adds to this the fact, said to have
been established by his own evidence introduced before
the Commissioner and not controverted by the Government, that during a considerable period he had traded
for the benefit of and with the McClure Corporation, so
that (it is said) he was guilty of trading with the enemy
contrary to § 3 of the act; from which it is deduced that
if, as required by § 7a of the act, he had reported to the
Alien Property Custodian that he held the McClure Corporation stock for the German Government, as the first
count of the Washington indictment alleges he was obliged
to do, this disclosure would have tended to show that he

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

was guilty under § 3 of the act of trading without a
license, because it would have furnished an essential
link in the chain of evidence necessary to convict him of
that offense.
It is at least questionable whether the point, assuming
it to have merit, would have any application to the second
count of the Washington indictment, which relates not to
ownership of stock in the McClure Corporation, but to
an indebtedness owing by appellant to the German Government and not reported.
And it is further doubtful whether there is foundation
for the contention as applied to the first count, since appellant predicates his trading with the enemy solely upon
the fact of his trading with the McClure Corporation, a
New York corporation, whereas by § 2 of the act the definition of "enemy," for the purposes of the statute, is to
include merely "any corporation incorporated within such
territory of any nation with which the United States is at
war or incorporatedwithin any country other than the United
States and doing business within such territory."
But consideration of these questions, or of any question
raised under the Fifth Amendment, would be premature
in this proceeding, since it is entirely plain that they do not
go to show a "want of probable cause" within the meaning of the rule that is invoked. The accusatory averments
of the indictment, admitted for the purposes of this proceeding to be true, make out a prima facie case of an offense against the laws of the United States indictable in
the District of Columbia. Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62, 84;
Haas v. Henkel, 216 U. S. 462, 481. Appellant's constitutional point merely raises a probability that a defense
will be interposed, and that thus a controversy will arise,
the determination of which is within the proper jurisdiction of the court in which the indictment was found.
This furnishes no legal obstacle to the removal of the accused to that jurisdiction; nor may the writ of habeas cor-

RUMELY v. McCARTHY.
283.

Dissent.

pus be employed as an anticipatory writ of error. Henry
v. Henkel, 235 U. S. 219, 229.
It is contended, indeed, that there was no probable cause
to believe that the offense charged in the Washington indictment was committed within the District of Columbia;
and this upon the ground that appellant was not personally present in the District at the time of the alleged offense, and that he was under no duty to make report there
to the Alien Property Custodian. The Commissioner,
however, found as a matter of fact that the Custodian's
office was in the District of Columbia, and as the finding
was supported by competent evidence the District Court
properly held that it was not reviewable on writ of habeas
corpus. That being so, the duty imposed by the statute
to make report to the Alien Property Custodian involved
the duty to make such report in the District of Columbia,
and failure to make it was an offense against the United
States committed in that District. United States v. Lombardo, 241 U. S. 73, 76; New York Central &c. R. R. Co.
v. United States, 166 Fed. Rep. 267, 269.
It is contended that the removal of appellant to the District of Columbia amounts to an invasion of his constitutional right to a speedy trial on the New York indictments,
and that the consent of the District Court for the Southern
District of New York to such removal ought not to have
been given without requiring from the representative of
the Government a statement of reasons. These points
raise no more than questions of discretion, the determination of which is not for our review.
Final order affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

dissents.

