OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff.

250 U. S.

In view of our conclusion we shall in this case, as we
did in the previous one and for the reasons therein stated,
content ourselves with reversing the judgment below upon
the merits with directions for such further proceedings
as may be not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JusTice BRANDEIS dissents.

STATE OF KANSAS v. BURLESON, POSTMASTER
GENERAL, ET AL.
IN EQUITY.
No. 31, Original.

Argued May 5, 6, 1919.--Decided June 2, 1919.

Decided on the authority of Dakota Central Telephone Co. v. South
Dakota, ante, 163.
Bill dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Fred S. Jackson, with whom Mr. Richard J. Hopkins, Attorney General of the State of Kansas, and Mr. A.
E. Helm were on the brief, for plaintiff:
The suit is one which may be maintained in the name
of the State and of which this court has original jurisdiction.
The action of the President under the joint resolution
was taken in pursuance of his authority under the civil
law and not in any sense under the authority of military or
martial law, nor in the exercise of his authority as commander-in-chief of the army and navy. Where federal
authority is unopposed and the courts open for adminis-

KANSAS v. BURLESON.
188.

Counsel for Defendants and Amicus Curive.

tration of justice, constitutional guarantees of liberty
cannot be disturbed by the President, Congress, or the
judiciary, in any exigency. The Constitution was intended for state of war as well as peace, and is a law for
rulers as well as people. Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2, 142.
The suit is not one against the United States.
Congress has not delegated to the President the power
to regulate telephone rates.
Congress cannot constitutionally confer upon the President the authority to arbitrarily fix and regulate telephone toll rates without any right to appeal to the courts
as to the reasonableness of such rates, and without fixing
any standard by which the President should fix or regulate
such rates.
The Postmaster General cannot, under the joint resolution of Congress, exact from the State the payment of
higher intrastate telephone toll rates than were in effect
when the telephone properties were taken over by the
Government in violation of the laws of the State.
The term "police regulation," even in its narrower
sense, includes power to make rates.
The Kansas Public Utilities Law includes a utility operated by the Federal Government as "lessee," "trustee,"
or "receiver," and the State can be compelled to pay no
more than the legal rates established by the commission
under the provisions of the state law.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. David A. Frank
was on the brief, for defendants, besides the points made
in the case of Dakota Central Telephone Co. v. South Dakota, ante, 163, contended that the court had no original
jurisdiction, because the suit was in effect one against the
United States.
Mr. John G. Price, Attorney General of the State of
Ohio, by leave of court, filed a brief on behalf of the State
of Ohio, as amicus curiae.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The State of Kansas, invoking the original jurisdiction
of this court, filed its bill to enjoin the Postmaster General
from enforcing and the defendant corporation from giving effect to a schedule of telephone rates which the Postmaster General had established and which he had directed
should be applied for telephone services rendered on lines
which were in the control and possession of the United
States and were being operated as governmental agencies
in virtue of the resolution of Congress and the proclamation of the President referred to and considered in Dakota
Central Telephone Co. v. South Dakota, just announced,
ante, 163.
The defendants insisting that the suit was not in substance against an officer to restrain the doing of unauthorized acts, but was really one to prevent an official of the
United States from discharging his duty under a law of the
United States, both disputed the merits and challenged
the jurisdiction. The case was heard coincidentally
with the Dakota Central Telephone Case, this day decided.
As the ruling in that case establishes the want of foundation for the contention made in this, as to the illegality of
the acts of the officer complained of, it follows also that
what was stated in that case as to the form of our decree
is likewise here controlling, and for the reasons there
stated in this as in that case our decree must be and is one
of dismissal of the bill.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BnANDEIS dissents.

