OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Syllabus.

250 U. S.

defendant in error signed blank powers of attorney she
did not know what her husband had done and certainly
entertained no purpose to approve transfer of the certificates to herself. She thought she was merely doing something to enable him to correct his avowed mistake and
nothing else. Nobody was misled or put in a worse position as the result of her act. "As between the original
parties that could not be deemed a ratification which was
accompanied by a refusal to ratify, and a declared purpose
to undo the unauthorized act. The form adopted, by itself and unexplained, would tend to an inference of ratification, but it is not left unexplained. The actual truth is
established, and that truth must prevail over the form
adopted as between parties who have not been misled, to
their harm, by the form of the transaction as distinguished
from its substance." "The presumption which might
have flowed from the form of the transaction disappears
upon the explanation made, and in view of the substantial
truth proved by the evidence." Glenn v. Garth, supra,
36, 37.
The record reveals no material error and the judgment
below is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. COLGATE & COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 828.

Argued March 10, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

On a writ of error under the Criminal Appeals Act, this court must
confine itself to the question of the construction of the statute in-

volved in the decision of the District Court, accepting that court's
interpretationof the indictment. P. 301.

UNITED STATES v. COLGATE & CO.
300.

Opinion of the Court.

In the absence of any intent to create or maintain a monopoly, the
Sherman Act does not prevent a manufacturer engaged in a private
business from announcing in advance the prices at which his goods
may be resold and refusing to deal with wholesalers and retailers
who do not conform to such prices. P. 307.
As the court interprets the District Court's opinion, the indictment
in this case was interpreted as not charging the defendant with
selling to dealers under agreements obligating them not to resell at
prices other than those fixed by defendant. P. 306. Dr. Miles
Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373, distinguished.
253 Fed. Rep. 522, affirmed.

The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant to the Attorney General Todd, with whom
Mr. Henry S. Mitchell, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. CharlesE. Hughes, with whom Mr. Charles Wesley
Dunn and Mr. Mason Trowbridge were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
Writs of error from District Courts directly here may be
taken by the United States "From a decision or judgment
quashing, setting aside, or sustaining a demurrer to, any
indictment, or any count thereof, where such decision or
judgment is based upon the invalidity, or construction
of the statute upon which the indictment is founded."
(Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246.) Upon such
a writ "we have no authority to revise the mere interpretation of an indictment and are confined to ascertaining
whether the court in a case under review erroneously construed the statute." "We must accept that court's interpretation of the indictments and confine our review to the
question of the construction of the statute involved in its

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

decision." United States v. Carter, 231 U. S. 492, 493;
United States v. Miller, 223 U. S. 599, 602.
Being of opinion that "The indictment should set forth
such a state of facts as to make it clear that a manufacturer, engaged in what was believed to be the lawful conduct of its business, has violated some known law, before
it is haled into court to answer the charge of the commission of a crime" and holding that it "fails to charge
any offense under the Sherman Act or any other law of the
United States, that is to say, as to the substance of the
indictment and the conduct and acts charged therein" the
trial court sustained a demurrer to the one before us. Its
reasoning and conclusions are set out in a written opinion.
253 Fed. Rep. 522.
We are confronted by an uncertain interpretation of an
indictment itself couched in rather vague and general
language. Counsel differ radically concerning the meaning of the opinion below and there is much room for the
controversy between them.
The indictment runs only against Colgate & Company,
a corporation engaged in manufacturing soap and toilet
articles and selling them throughout the Union. It makes
no reference to monopoly, and proceeds solely upon the
theory of an unlawful combination. After setting out
defendant's organization, place and character of business
and general methods of selling and distributing products
through wholesale and retail merchants, it alleges"During the aforesaid period of time, within the said
eastern district of Virginia and throughout the United
States, the defendant knowingly and unlawfully created
and engaged in a combination with said wholesale and
retail dealers, in the eastern district of Virginia and
throughout the United States, for the purpose and with
the effect of procuring adherence on the part of such
dealers (in reselling such products sold to them as aforesaid) to resale prices fixed by the defendant, and of pre-

UNITED STATES v. COLGATE & CO.
300.

Opinion of the Court.

venting such dealers from reselling such products at lower
prices, thus suppressing competition amongst such wholesale dealers,-iid aiongst such retail dealers, in restraint
of the aforesaid trade and commerce among the several
States, in violation of the act entitled 'An Act to protect
trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and
monopolies,' approved July 2, 1890."
Following this is a summary of things done to carry out
the purposes of the combination: Distribution among
dealers of letters, telegrams, circulars and lists showing
uniform prices to be charged; urging them to adhere to
such prices and notices, stating that no sales would be
made to those who did not; requests, often complied with,
for information concerning dealers who had departed from
specified prices; investigation and discovery of those not
adhering thereto and placing their names upon "suspended lists"; requests to offending dealers for assurances
and promises of future adherence to prices, which were
often given; uniform refusals to sell to any who failed to
give the same; sales to those who did; similar assurances
and promises required of, and given by, other dealers
followed by sales to them; unrestricted sales to dealers
with established accounts who had observed specified
prices, etc.
Immediately thereafter comes this paragraph:
"By reason of the foregoing, wholesale dealers in the
aforesaid products of the defendant in the eastern district of Virginia and throughout the United States, with
few exceptions, resold, at uniform prices fixed by the defendant, the aforesaid products, sold to them by the defendant, and refused to resell such products at lower prices
to retail dealers in the States where the respective wholesale dealers did business and in other States. For the
same reason retail dealers in the aforesaid products of the
defendant in the eastern district of Virginia and throughout the United States resold, at uniform prices fixed by

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

the defendant, the aforesaid products, sold to them by the
defendant and by the aforesaid wholesale dealers, and
refused to sell such products at lower prices to the consuming public in the States where the respective retail
dealers did business and in other States. Thus competition in the sale of such products, by wholesale dealers to
retail dealers, and by retail dealers to the consuming public, was suppressed, and the prices of such products to the
retail dealers and to the consuming public in the eastern
district of Virginia and throughout the United States were
maintained and enhanced."
In the course of its opinion the trial court said:
"No charge is made that any contract was entered
into by and on the part of the defendant, and any of its
retail customers, in restraint of interstate trade and
commerce-the averment being, in effect, that it knowingly and unlawfully created and engaged in a combination with certain of its wholesale and retail customers,
to procure adherence on their part, in the sale of its products sold to them, to resale prices fixed by the defendant,
and that, in connection therewith, such wholesale and
retail customers gave assurances and promises, which
resulted in the enhancement and maintenance of such
prices, and in the suppression of competition by wholesale dealers and retail dealers, and by the latter to the
consuming public."
"In the view taken by the court, the indictment here
fairly presents the question of whether a manufacturer
of products shipped in interstate trade, is subject to
criminal prosecution under the Sherman Act, for entering into a combination in restraint of such trade and
commerce, because he agrees with his wholesale and
retail customers, upon prices claimed by them to be fair
and reasonable, at which the same may be resold, and

UNITED STATES v. COLGATE & CO.
300.

Opinion of the Court.

declines to sell his products to those who will not thus
stipulate as to prices. This, at the threshold, presents
for the determination of the court how far one may control and dispose of his own property; that is to say,
whether there is any limitation thereon, if he proceeds
in respect thereto in a lawful and bona fide manner.
That he may not do so fraudulently, collusively, and in
unlawful combination with others, may be conceded.
Eastern States Lumber Association v. United States, 234
U. S. 600, 614. But it by no means follows that, being
a manufacturer of a given article, he may not, without
incurring any criminal liability, refuse absolutely to sell
the same at any price, or to sell at a named sum to a
customer, with the understanding that such customer
will resell only at an agreed price between them, and,
should the customer not observe the understanding as
to retail prices, exercise his undoubted right to decline
further to deal with such person."
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"The pregnant fact should never be lost sight of that
no averment is made of any contract or agreement having
been entered into whereby the defendant, the manufacturer, and his customers, bound themselves to enhance
and maintain prices, further than is involved in the circumstances that the manufacturer, the defendant here,
refused to sell to persons who would not resell at indicated prices, and that certain retailers made purchases
on this condition, whereas, inferentially, others declined
so to do. No suggestion is made that the defendant, the
manufacturer, attempted to reserve or retain any interest
in the goods sold, or to restrain the vendee in his right
to barter and sell the same without restriction. The
retailer, after buying, could, if he chose, give away his
purchase, or sell it at any price he saw fit, or not sell it
at all; his course in these respects being affected only by

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

the fact that he might by his action incur the displeasure
of the manufacturer, who .could refuse to make further
sales to him, as he had the undoubted right to do. There
is no charge that the retailers themselves entered into
any combination or agreement with each other, or that
the defendant acted other than with his customers individually."
Our problem is to ascertain, as accurately as may be,
what interpretation the trial court placed upon the indictment-not to interpret it ourselves; and then to
determine whether, so construed, it fairly charges violation of the Sherman Act. Counsel for the Government
maintain, in effect, that, as so interpreted, the indictment
adequately charges an unlawful combination (within the
doctrine of Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220
U. S. 373) resulting from restrictive agreements between
defendant and sundry dealers whereby the latter obligated themselves not to resell except at agreed prices;
and to support this position they specifically rely upon
the above-quoted sentence in the opinion which begins
"In the view taken by the court," etc. On the other
hand, defendant maintains that looking at the whole
opinion it plainly construes the indictment as alleging
only recognition of the manufacturer's undoubted right
to specify resale prices and refuse to deal with anyone
who failed to maintain the same.
Considering all said in the opinion (notwithstanding
some serious doubts) we are unable to accept the construction placed upon it by the Government. We cannot,
e. g., wholly disregard the statement that "The retailer,
after buying, could, if he chose, give away his purchase,
or sell it at any price he saw fit, or not sell it at all; his
course in these respects being affected only by the fact
that he might by his action incur the displeasure of the
manufacturer, who could refuse to make further sales to
him, as he had the undoubted right to do." And we

UNITED STATES v. COLGATE & CO.
300.

Opinion of the Court.

must conclude that, as interpreted below, the indictment
does not charge Colgate & Company with selling its
products to dealers under agreements which obligated
the latter not to resell except at prices fixed by the
company.
The position of the defendant is more nearly in accord
with the whole opinion and must be accepted. And as
counsel for the Government were careful to state on the
argument that this conclusion would require affirmation
of the judgment below, an extended discussion of the
principles involved is unnecessary.
The purpose of the Sherman Act is to prohibit monopolies, contracts and combinations which probably would
unduly interfere with the free exercise of their rights by
those engaged, or who wish to engage, in trade and commerce-in a word to preserve the right of freedom to
trade. In the absence of any purpose to create or maintain a monopoly, the act does not restrict the long recognized right of trader or manufacturer engaged in an
entirely private business, freely to exercise his own independent discretion as to parties with whom he will deal.
And, of course, he may announce in advance the circumstances under which he will refuse to sell. "The trader
or manufacturer, on the other hand, carries on an entirely
private business, and can sell to whom he pleases." United
States v. Trans-Missouri Freight Association, 166 U. S.
290, 320. "A retail dealer has the unquestioned right
to stop dealing with a wholesaler for reasons sufficient to
himself, and may do so because he thinks such dealer is
acting unfairly in trying to undermine his trade." Eastern
States Retail Lumber Dealers' Association v. United States,
234 U. S. 600 614. See also Standard Oil Co. v. United
States, 221 U. S. 1, 56; United States v. American Tobacco
Co., 221 U. S. 106, 180; Boston Store of Chicago v.
American Graphophone Co., 246 U. S. 8. In Dr. Miles
Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co., supra, the unlawful

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
250 U. S.

Syllabus.

combination was effected through contracts which undertook to prevent dealers from freely exercising the
right to sell.
The judgment of the District Court must be
Affirmed.

CAMP ET AL. v. GRESS.
CERTIORARI

TO

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR

THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 279.

Argued March 24, 25, 1919.-Decided June 2, 1919.

Under § 51 of the Judicial Code (Act of 1887-1888, § 1), when an action
for damages is brought against several defendants in the district
where some of them reside and the jurisdiction of the District Court
is founded solely on diversity of citizenship, a codefendant cannot
be compelled to submit to the jurisdiction by service in that district
if he is a citizen and resident of another State. P. 311. Smith v.
Lyon, 133 U. S. 315.
This construction is confirmed by the reenactment of the subjectmatter, already so construed, as part of the Judicial Code, together
and in juxtaposition with the provision (Jud. Code, § 52) expressly
permitting an action not of a local nature against defendants residing in different districts of the same State to be brought in either
district. P. 314.
In what is now Jud. Code, § 50, providing for the exercise of jurisdiction "when there are several defendants

.

.

.

and one or more

of them are neither inhabitants of nor found within the district in
which the suit is brought, and do not voluntarily appear," the
words "found within the district" are confined, as a result of the
Act of 1887-1888, § 1, (Jud. Code, § 51,) to cases in which the action
is brought in the district of the plaintiff's residence. P. 313.
Where an action on contract is brought against resident and nonresident defendants, the exemption of the nonresident from suit,
under Jud. Code, § 51, is personal to him and can not be availed of
by his codefendants. P. 316.

