ERIE R. R. CO. v. SHUART.
459.

Syllabus.

ness transactions of plaintiff in error outside of the State
of Missouri, and hence does not deprive plaintiff in error
of its property without due process of law.
Our recent decisions cited in opposition to this view,
Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, 297;
Looney v. Crane Co., 245 U. S. 178, 188, and other cases of
the same kinds referred to therein, are so obviously distinguishable that particular analysis is unnecessary.
Judgment affirmed.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. SHUART ET AL.,
DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE NAME OF JOHN
R. SHUART & SONS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.
No. 342.

Submitted April 25, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.

In a contract governing an interstate shipment of live stock the carrier's liability for negligent injury of the stock during transportation
may lawfully be conditioned upon the presentation of a written
claim by the shipper within five days from their removal from the
cars. P. 467.
In view of the enlarged scope of "transportation," as defined by the
Hepburn Act, an interstate movement of live stock is not ended when
the car containing them is placed opposite a cattle chute of the carrier on a switch track at destination and left in charge of the shipper
for unloading, when an adequate time for unloading them has not
expired, although the shipper assumed the duty, risk and expense of
their unloading by the terms of the contract for transportation.
Id. Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis Ry. Co. v. Dettlebach, 239 U. S. 588.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
250 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Thomas Watts for petitioner.
Mr. Reeves T. Strickland for respondents.
Comesky was on the brief.

Mr. Frank

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
Respondents delivered to the Toledo, St. Louis & Western Railroad at East St. Louis, Illinois, a carload of horses
for transportation, under a Limited Liability Livestock
Contract or bill of lading via petitioner's road, to themselves at Suffern, New York, their home. Among other
things the contract provided:
"That the said shipper is at his own sole risk and expense to load and take care of, and to feed and water
said stock whilst being transported, whether delayed in
transit or otherwise, and to unload the same; and neither
said carrier nor any connecting carrier is to be under
any liability or duty with reference thereto, except in the
. . "That no
actual transportation of the same."
claim for damages which may accrue to the said shipper
under this contract shall be allowed or paid by the said
carrier, or sued for in any Court by the said shipper, unless a claim for such loss or damage shall be made in
writing, verified by the affidavit of the said shipper or his
agent, and delivered to the General Auditor of the said
carrier at his office in the City of Chicago, Ill., within five
days from the time said stock is removed from said car
or cars, and that if any loss or damage occurs upon the
line of a connecting carrier, then such carrier shall not
be liable unless a claim shall be made in like manner, and
delivered in like time, to some proper officer or agent of
the carrier, on whose line the loss or injury occurs."
Immediately after the car arrived at Suffern, petitioner
placed it on a switch track opposite a cattle chute and
left it in charge of respondents for unloading. By letting
.

ERIE R. R. CO. v. SHUART.
465.

Opinion of the Court.

down a bridge they at once connected the chute and car
and were about to lead out four horses when an engine
pushed other cars against it and injured the animals
therein. No written claim was made for the loss or damage as provided by the bill of lading; and when sued the
carrier defended upon that ground. Respondents maintain that transportation had ended when the accident
occurred and consequently no written claim was necessary.
The courts below accepted this view.
Under our former opinions, the clause requiring presentation of a written claim is clearly valid and controlling
as to any liability arising from beginning to end of the
transportation contracted for. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry.
Co. v. McLaughlin, 242 U. S. 142; St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Starbird, 243 U. S. 592; Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Leach, 249 U. S. 217; Cleveland,
Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis Ry. Co. v. Dettlebach, 239
U. S. 588, 593, 594; and Southern Ry. Co. v. Prescott, 240
U. S. 632.
In Cleveland, Cincinnai', Chicago & St. Louis Ry. Co.
v. Dettlebach we pointed out that the Hepburn Act enlarged the definition of "transportation" so as to include
"cars and other vehicles and all instrumentalities and
facilities of shipment or carriage, irrespective of ownership or of any contract, express or implied, for the use
thereof and all services in connection with the receipt,
delivery, elevation, and transfer in transit, ventilation,
refrigeration, or icing, storage, and hauling of property
transported"; and we said from this and other provisions
of the act "it is evident that Congress recognized that the
duty of carriers to the public included the performance of
a variety of services that, according to the theory of the
common law, were separable from the carrier's service as
carrier, and, in order to prevent overcharges and discriminations from being made under the pretext of performing
such additional services, it enacted that so far as inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
CLARIE,

J., dissenting.

250 U. S.

state carriers by rail were concerned the entire body of
such services should be included together under the single
term 'transportation' and subjected to the provisions of
the Act respecting reasonable rates and the like."
In the instant case, when injured, the animals were
awaiting removal from the car through a cattle chute
alleged to be owned, operated and controlled by the railroad. If its employees had then been doing the work of
unloading there could be no doubt that transportation
was still in progress; and we think that giving active
charge of the removal to respondents, as agreed, was not
enough to end the interstate movement. The animals
were in the car; no adequate time for unloading had
transpired. The carrier had not fully performed the services incident to final delivery imposed by law. These
included the furnishing of fair opportunity and proper
facilities for safe unloading although the shippers had contracted to do the work of actual removal. See Hutchinson on Carriers, §§ 711, 714, 715.
Petitioner's request for an instructed verdict in its behalf should have been granted. The judgment below
must be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUsTICE CLARKE dissenting.
I greatly regret that I cannot concur in the opinion and
judgment of the court in this case, but I cannot consent
to share in what seems to me a very strained construction of a definition in the Hepburn Act (34 Stat. 584, c.
3591, § 1) which will result in keeping alive a bill of lading,
with the effect of excusing the carrier from liability for
negligently damaging the live stock of a consignee, after
it had been delivered, on the ground that a claim in writing for the damage, duly verified, had not been presented
within five days.

ERIE R. R. CO. v. SHUART.
465.

CLARICE,

J., dissenting.

My reasons for dissenting, stated as briefly as may be,
are as follows:
It is shown by the opinion of the court that the consignee, a partnership of three members, was bound by
the bill of lading to unload the horses at destination.
The consignee, being notified by the carrier as to the
probable time of the arrival of the car, on the day before
it arrived, paid what was supposed to be the full amount
of the freight charges, and two members of the partnership were at the station at three o'clock in the morning
to receive and unload it.
When the train came, the senior member of the consignee stood in the cattle chute with the conductor, while
the latter was placing the car for unloading and approved
as satisfactory the position in which it was placed. Thereupon, a brakeman set the brake, the engine was cut off and
the conductor went away and left the car in the sole custody of the consignee, after saying to its representative,
"You had better get them out as soon as you can, they
have been on the road a good while and must be tired and
hungry." Two members of the partnership, consignee,
went to work at once to unload the horses, but it was necessary to get some boards to make the bridge from the car
to the chute safe, and in about half an hour, when the two
were in the act of leading two horses from the car, other
cars were negligently thrown against it and caused the
damage sued for.
I dissent from the opinion of the court because I agree
with the three New York courts that the undisputed facts
thus stated show that the transportation was ended and
the delivery of the stock was so completely made as to end
all liability of the carrier under the bill of lading, before
the negligence of the company occurred which caused the
damage complained of.
What constitutes delivery of goods or of live stock by a
carrier is usually a mixed question of law and fact, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

250 U. S.

where, as here, the facts are not disputed, it is a question
of law.
What more was there for the carrier to do,-what more
could it have done-to make more complete the delivery
necessary to fulfill its obligation as a carrier? The journey was ended, the freight charges were paid, and the car
was placed on a side track in an appropriate place and position for unloading, which was approved by the consignee.
It had been accepted by two members of the partnership,
consignee, and had passed into their exclusive custody a
full half hour before the accident. No assistance was
asked for or needed after the conductor delivered the car
and went away and thereafter the carrier owed to the consignee only the duty which it owed to any property lawfully upon or near to its tracks,-not to negligently or
wilfully injure it, and it was for violation of that duty,
not for failure to discharge duties imposed by the bill
of lading, that this suit was instituted. The case is one
of side track delivery, the equivalent of the familiar delivery of a car to an "industrial track" or "team unloading track" of a railroad, with possession taken by the
consignee before the damage was done.
To the weighty authority of the New York courts which
decided in this case that the delivery was complete before
the damage was done, may be added, a few from many,
the decisions of the Supreme Courts: of Michigan, in a
strikingly similar case but with not so complete a delivery,
in Brown v. Pontiac, Oxford & Northern R. R. Co., 133
Michigan, 371; of Illinois, in GratiotStreet Warehouse Co. v.
St. Louis, Alton & Terre Haute R. R. Co., 221 Illinois, 418;
of North Carolina, in Reid v. Southern Ry. Co., 149 N.
Car. 423; of Georgia, in Kenny Co. v. Atlanta & West
Point R. R. Co., 122 Georgia, 365. And see Hedges v.
Hudson River R. R. Co., 49 N. Y. 223.
The definition of "transportation" in the Hepburn Act
(34 Stat. 584), relied upon in the court's opinion, seems

ERIE R. R. CO. v. SHUART.
465.

CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

to me quite irrelevant. That provision was incorporated
into the act to prevent unjust discrimination by carriers
in terminal delivery charges, as the context and the history of the act abundantly show. It defined "transportation" but did not define what should constitute delivery
to a consignee,-that was left untouched and is governed
by the prior decisions of courts and by those which have
been developed since.
Equally beside the question involved seems to me the
decision in Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis Ry.
Co. v. Dettlebach, 239 U. S. 588, 593, 594, cited in the opinion of the court. The question there under consideration
was, whether when goods carried to destination were lost,
after they had been held more than a month uncalled for,
the liability of the carrier was to be determined by the
terms of the bill of lading or by the more limited liability
of a warehouseman. Obviously there was no question
in the case as to what constituted delivery, for there was
no pretense of delivery, actual or constructive, and therefore the decision cannot be of service in determining
this case.
The opinion of the court in this case concludes:
"The animals were in the car; no adequate time for
unloading had transpired. The carrier had not fully performed the services incident to final delivery imposed by
law. These included the furnishing of fair opportunity
and proper facilities for safe unloading although the shippers had contracted to do the work of actual removal.
See Hutchinson on Carriers, §§ 711, 714, 715."
I cannot find justification, in the sections cited, for such
a statement of the law as is here made.
Section 711 deals with the obligation to unload carload
freight, and, after saying that it is "the uniform rule and
custom in this country" for the consignee to unload, the
only other relevant statement of the writer is:
"All, therefore, that can be required of the railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

250 U. S.

company is that it shall place the cars where they may
be safely and conveniently unloaded."
This the carrier in the case before us had done to the
satisfaction and acceptance of the consignee before the
accident complained of.
Section 714 deals with the liability of the carrier pending removal (delivery) of the goods, and says:
"During this reasonable time [for delivery] the liability of the carrier remains unchanged; but so soon as it has
elapsed he no longer stands in the relation of carrier to the
goods, but in that of an ordinary bailee for hire."
The "reasonable time" here referred to is palpably that
necessary for the carrier to wait before its obligation
becomes that of a warehouseman when the consignee does
not appear to claim the shipment,-it is not applicable to
the time for unloading after the property has been accepted by the consignee.
Section 715 declares that:
"If the consignee is bound to unload the goods himself
from the car, it is the duty of the carrier to place the car
where it can be unloaded with a reasonable degree of convenience, and to furnish the consignee with safe and proper
facilities for the purpose."
All of this the carrier in this case did, and the consignee
not only approved as satisfactory, safe and proper, the
position in which the car was placed and the facilities
furnished for unloading it, but the delivery of the car was
accepted and was in the actual possession and custody of
the consignee for a very considerable time before the accident complained of happened. It was not in any attempt or effort on the part of the carrier to improve the
unloading facilities or to assist the consignee that the damage was done, but it was the result of a tort, pure and
simple,-of a negligent switching operation, entirely independent of the delivery of the shipment, occurring a half
hour after it had been accepted.

BARRETT v. VIRGINIAN RY. CO.
Syllabus.

465.

The delivery having been completed and accepted by
the consignee, the five-day limitation, so unreasonable
in itself that it has been prohibited by congressional enactment (38 Stat. 1196, c. 176, § 1) has, in my judgment,
no applicability to this case, and to bottom tbe conclusion announced upon the definition of "transportation"
_n the Hepburn Act is to convert what was intended for
the protection of shippers of property in interstate commerce into an instrument of injury and injustice.
For the reasons thus stated I dissent from the opinion
and judgment of the court.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

concur in this dissent.

MR. JUSTICE DAY also dissents.

BARRETT v. VIRGINIAN RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 275.

Submitted March 21, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.

The right to take a voluntary nonsuit is substantial, and when and
how it may be asserted are questions relating directly to practice
and mode of proceeding within the intendment of the Conformity
Act. P. 476.
Under the law of Virginia, in the absence of a demurrer to the evidence
and joinder therein, the plaintiff may take a nonsuit at any time
before the retirement of the jury. P. 477.
A motion by defendant for a directed verdict at the conclusion of the
testimony, when made in a federal court in Virginia, is not equivalent
to a demurrer to the evidence, and the making of such a motion and
its impending allowance do not place the plaintiff's right to take a
nonsuit at the sound discretion of the court. Id.
244 Fed. Rep. 397, reversed.

