OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Parties.

250 U. S.

HANCOCK ET AL. v. CITY OF MUSKOGEE, OKLAHOMA, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 360. Submitted April 30, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.
Due process of law does not require that the owners of property to be
assessed for a local sewer improvement shall be notified in advance
of the formation and bounds of the improvement district, when
this is established by the legislature directly or by a municipality to
which full legislative power over the subject has been delegated by
the State. P. 455.
The case is different when the district is established by a board or other
inferior tribunal exercising only administrative or quasi-judicial
authority. P. 458.
When the legislature itself prescribes that the cost of such an improvement shall be apportioned against the lots in the district in proportion to area, there is no occasion for a hearing with respect to the
mode in which the assessment shall be apportioned. Id.
How much of such cost shall be specially taxed to the property benefited, and whether the distribution shall be according to benefits
to particular lots or according to frontage, values or area, are matters
of legislative discretion, subject to judicial relief in cases of abuse or
error in execution. P. 459.
168 Pac. Rep. 445, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Benjamin B. Blakeney, Mr. J. Harvey Maxey, Mr.
Grant Foreman and Mr. James D. Simms for plaintiffs in
error.
Mr. Nathan A. Gibson and Mr. Joseph L. Hull for defendants in error. Mr. Thomas L. Gibson was on the
brief.

HANCOCK v. CITY OF MUSKOGEE.
454.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
Plaintiffs in error, owners of real estate in the City of
Muskogee, brought suit in an Oklahoma state court
seeking an injunction to restrain the city and its officials
from encumbering their lands with a special assessment
to pay for the construction of a sewer in Sewer District
No. 12 of that city; contending that the statutes of the
State and the ordinances of the city under which the district was created and the cost of the sewers therein assessed
against the property within the district were in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment, in that they deprived
plaintiffs of their property without due process of law.
The trial court refused relief, the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma affirmed its judgment (168 Pac. Rep. 445), and
the case comes here by writ of error.
The statutes, as they existed at the time the proceedings
in question were had, are to be found in Snyder's Comp.
Laws Okla. 1909, §§ 984-993. They authorize the mayor
and councilmen in any municipal corporation having a
population of not less than 1,000 to establish a general
sewer system composed of public, district, and private
sewers, and also to cause district sewers to be constructed
within districts having limits prescribed by ordinance;
the cost of district sewers to be apportioned against all
lots and pieces of ground in the district in proportion to
area, disregarding improvements and excluding the public
highways.
It is contended that the statute is void because it gives
no notice to property owners and makes no provision for
hearing them as to the formation of the district or its
boundaries, the proposed plan or method of building the
sewer, or the amount to be assessed upon property in the
district. While it is conceded to have been established by
previous decisions of this court that, where the legislature

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

fixes by law the area of a sewer district or the property
which is to be assessed, no advance notice to the property
owner of such legislative action is necessary in order to
constitute due process of law, it is insisted that in the
present case the legislature has not done this, and hence
it is essential to the protection of the fundamental rights
of the property owner that at some stage of the proceeding
he have notice and an opportunity to be heard upon the
question whether his property is erroneously included in
the sewer district because it cannot be benefited by the
sewer, or for any other reason is improperly subjected to
assessment.
But we find it to be settled by decisions of the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma, which as to this are conclusive upon
us, that in respect to the establishment and construction
of local sewer systems and the exercise of the power of
taxation in aid of this purpose, the entire legislative power
of the State has been delegated to the municipalities.
In City of Perry v. Davis, 18 Oklahoma, 427, referring to
this same legislation the court held (p. 445): "When the
legislature delegated the power to the mayor and councilmen of municipal corporations in this territory, having
a bonafide population of not less than one thousand (1,000)
persons, to establish a general sewer system, that delegation of power carried 'With it all the incidental powers
necessary to carry its object into effect within the law.
Of what utility would such a grant of power be if unaccompanied with sufficient power to carry it into effect?
Under our system the power of taxation is vested exclusively in the legislative branch of the government but it
is a power that may be delegated by the legislature to
municipal corporations which are mere instrumentalities
of the state for the better administration of public affairs.
When such a corporation is created it becomes vested
with the power of taxation to sustain itself with all necessary public improvements, unless the exercise of that

HANCOCK v. CITY OF MUSKOGEE.
454.

Opinion of the Court.

power be expressly prohibited. That the mayor and
council of the city of Perry was authorized to establish
and construct a necessary sewer system for the city, in
the absence of prohibitive statutes, should not be questioned. The power to establish and construct a sewer system carried with it the power to create indebtedness and
taxation for its payment." The court further held that
the act constituted due process, and that the passage and
publication of an ordinance establishing a sewer district
constituted sufficient notice and conferred jurisdiction
upon the city authorities to perform the work and provide payment therefor. This was followed in City of
Muskogee v. Rambo, 40 Oklahoma, 672, 680, and also in
the present case.
So far, therefore, as the present ordinance determined
that a district sewer should be constructed, and established the bounds of the district for the purpose of determining what property should be subjected to the special
cost of constructing it, there was an authorized exercise
of the legislative power of the State, which, according to
repeated decisions of this court, was not wanting in due
process of law because of the mere fact that there was no
previous notice to the property owners or opportunity
to be heard. The question of distributing or apportioning the burden of the cost among the particular property
owners is another matter. Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U.
S. 345, 355-357; Paulsen v. Portland, 149 U. S. 30, 40;
French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324, 343;
Shumate v. Heman, 181 U. S. 402, affirming Heman v.
Allen, 156 Missouri, 534; Wagner v. Baltimore, 239 U. S.
207, 218; Withnell v. Ruecking Construction Co., 249
U. S. 63.
We do not mean to say that if in fact it were made to
appear that there was an arbitrary and unwarranted exercise of the legislative power, or some denial of the equal
protection of the laws in the method of exercising it,

OCTOBER TERM. 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

judicial relief would not be accorded to parties aggrieved.
The facts of this case raise no such question. See Wagner
v. Baltimore, 239 U. S. 207, 220; Houck v. Little River
Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254, 265; Myles Salt Co. v.
Iberia Drainage District, 239 U. S. 478, 485; Gast Realty
Co. v. SchneiderGranite Co., 240 U. S. 55, 59.
The chief reliance of plaintiffs in error is upon those
decisions which have held that where the legislature, instead of determining for itself what lands shall be included
in a district or what lands will be benefited by the construction of a sewer, submits the question to some board
or other inferior tribunal with administrative or quasijudicial authority, the inquiry becomes in its nature judicial in such a sense that property owners are entitled
to a hearing or an opportunity to be heard before their
lands are included. Fallbrook IrrigationDistrict v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 166-167, 174-175; Parsons v. District
of Columbia, 170 U. S. 45, 52; Embree v. Kansas City
Road District, 240 U. S. 242, 247. But they have no application to a case where, as in the case before us, full
legislative power over the subject-matter has been conferred by the State upon a municipal corporation. Where
that has been done, a legislative determination by the
local legislative body is of the same effect as though made
by the general legislature. Withnell v. Ruecking Construction Co., 249 U. S. 63, 70.
It is suggested further that the statutes and ordinances
in question were wanting in due process, in that they
afforded the property owner no opportunity to be heard
as to the distribution of the cost of the sewer among the
different properties in the district or the ascertainment of
the amount of the assessment to be imposed upon the
lands of plaintiffs in error. Respecting this, it is sufficient
to say that as the legislature itself has prescribed that the
entire cost of a district sewer shall be apportioned against
the lots in the district in proportion to area (excluding

AMERICAN MFG. CO. v. ST. LOUIS.
Syllabus.

454.

the highways), there is no occasion for a hearing with
respect to the mode in which the assessment shall be
apportioned, since this is resolved into a mere mathematical calculation. And it is settled by the cases above cited
that whether the entire amount or a part only of the cost
of a local improvement shall be imposed as a special tax
upon the property benefited, and whether the tax shall
be distributed upon a consideration of the particular benefit to particular lots or apportioned according to their
frontage upon the streets, their values, or their area, is a
matter of legislative discretion, subject, of course, to judicial relief in cases of actual abuse of power or of substantial error in executing it, neither of which is here asserted.
Judgment affirmed.

AMERICAN

MANUFACTURING COMPANY
CITY OF ST. LOUIS.

v.

ERROR To THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 365.

Argued April 30, 1919.-Decided June 9, 1919.

The question whether a state law or tax deprives a party of constitutional rights depends upon its practical operation and effect. P. 462.
An ordinance conditioning the right to manufacture goods within a
city upon the payment of a license tax computed upon the amount
of the sales of the goods so manufactured, held, a tax upon the business of manufacture within the city, and not a tax upon the sales.
P. 463.
Such a tax when computed upon the sales of goods manufactured in
the city under the license, but removed, and afterwards sold, beyond the State, does not impose a direct burden on interstate commerce or, when the manufacturer is a sister-state corporation, deprive it of property without due process. P. 464.
198 S. W. Rep. 1183, affirmed.

