RUST LAND CO. v. JACKSON.
66.

Syllabus.

tained by properly investing them, during the same period,
leaving the principal, like the homestead, to go to the heirs
in general on the termination of her special right.
Our conclusion on this point is in accord with the general trend of decisions in the oil and gas mining regions in
similar situations. Blakley v. Marshall, 174 Pa. St. 425,
429; Wilson v. Youst, 43 W. Va. 826; Eakin v. Hawkins,
52 W. Va. 124; Stewart v. Tennant, 52 W. Va. 559; Barnes
v. Keys, 36 Oklahoma, 6.
Decrees below reversed.

RUST LAND & LUMBER COMPANY v. JACKSON
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.

No. 171.

Argued March 4, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

The contention that an issue between private parties involving the
location of the state boundary was submitted to the jury upon
a theory inconsistent with the true principle of decision as laid down
by this court, and that thereby a party was deprived of a right,
privilege or immunity claimed under the Constitution and treaties
of the United States, will not afford ground for a writ of error to
review the judgment of a state court under Jud. Code, § 237, as
amended. P. 73.
The claim that the decision of an original suit between two States
pending in this court for the determination of their common boundary will be determinative of private rights to timber, involved in
a case between private parties pending in the Supreme Court of
one of such States, and that a party to the latter case will be entitled to set up such decision when rendered and is entitled to a continuance meanwhile, held, at most, an assertion of a title, right,
privilege or immunity under the Federal Constitution; and the refusal of such continuance by the state court held to involve no question as to the jurisdiction of this court to render a conclusive judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

ment in the suit between the States, locating their boundary, and
hence no question as to the validity of "an authority exercised
under the United States" within the meaning of Jud. Code, § 237,
as amended. P. 74.
An application for certiorari to review a judgment of a state court
cannot be entertained after the three months' period limited by
§ 6 of the Act of September 6, 1916, has expired. P. 76.
Writ of error dismissed. Certiorari denied.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Albert M. Kales and Mr. Herbert Pope for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Garner W. Green, with whom Mr. Gerald Fitzgerald,
Mr. George F. Maynard and Mr. Marcellus Green were on
the briefs, for defendants in error.
MR. JusTIc, PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was brought on for argument immediately
following Arkansas v. Mississippi, No. 7, Original, this
day disposed of, ante, 39.
It was a replevin suit, brought in the circuit court of one
of the counties of Mississippi by defendants in error to recover certain timber taken by plaintiff in error from their
possession under a claim of ownership. They recovered
a verdict and judgment in the circuit court, and the judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State,
without opinion. Ownership of the timber was deemed
to depend upon the ownership of the land from which
it had been cut; and this was in dispute, and according
to the theory of plaintiff in error was dependent upon the
location of the state boundary. The land lay in the Mississippi River bottom, in the vicinity of Horseshoe Bend,
where a portion of the former channel had been abandoned
as the result of a sudden change that occurred in the year

RUST LAND CO. v. JACKSON.
71.

Opinion of the Court

1848; the river having broken through the neck of the
Bend and formed a new channel there, with the result
that in the course of time the former channel around the
Bend was abandoned and in large part filled up, and its
location as it was prior to the avulsion has become, after
the lapse of so many years, difficult of ascertainment.
The adjoining States whose common boundary is marked
by the River at this point are in dispute as to its former
location, and also as to whether the boundary ought to
follow the middle of the former main channel of navigation or rather a line equidistant from the banks of the
River at ordinary stage of water. To determine this
controversy, the suit between the States was brought in
this court, and it is still pending.
It is the contention of plaintiff in error that the judgment in the present case was based upon the determination of an issue which necessarily involved the location
of the interstate boundary; and our first inquiry must be
whether the judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi
herein is reviewable in this court by writ of error. The
judgment was rendered December 23, 1916, after the taking effect of the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat.
726, amendatory of § 237, Judicial Code, and hence is
reviewable here, if at all, only by virtue of that act and
in accordance with its provisions.
It is asserted that the issue involving the location of the
boundary line between the States was submitted to the
jury under instructions from the trial judge based upon
a theory inconsistent with the true principle of decision
as laid down by this court in Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S. 1;
Arkansas v. Tennessee, 246 U. S. 158, and Cissna v.
Tennessee, 246 U. S. 289, and that thereby plaintiff in
error was deprived of a right, privilege, or immunity
claimed under the Constitution of the United States and
treaties made thereunder. Even if the record showed that
such a right, privilege, or immunity was properly set up

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

and claimed in the state court, it of course is not maintained, nor could it be, that under § 237, Judicial Code, as
amended, a federal question of this character would give
us jurisdiction to review the resulting judgment by writ
of error. Were that the only federal question, clearly
it would at most furnish ground for a review by certiorari.
But it is insisted that the Supreme Court of the State,
in the course of its review of the judgment of the circuit
court, rendered an adverse decision upon the question of
the validity of an authority exercised under the United
States, and for this reason we have jurisdiction by writ
of error under the amended § 237.
The question arose as follows: Plaintiff in error moved
the Supreme Court to continue the cause until the decision
by this court of the original action then and still pending
between the States of Arkansas and Mississippi, in which
the location of the disputed boundary at or near the land
in question is involved. This motion at first was sustained; but afterwards the defendants in error moved to
set aside the continuance upon these grounds: (1) That
the decision of this court in the suit between the States
would not be controlling in the present case because it
would not be rendered upon the same testimony; (2) That
the Supreme Court of Mississippi was an appellate tribunal without original jurisdiction, empowered only to
affirm or reverse a decision of the circuit court, depending
upon whether that court upon the evidence before it had
reached a correct conclusion, and that there was no way
in which the judgment of this court in the suit between
the States could be introduced before the Supreme Court
of Mississippi; and (3) Because the latter court was not
in any way subject to the final jurisdiction of this court.
This motion was sustained, the continuance was set aside,
and the cause was placed upon the docket and afterwards
disposed of in its regular order; with the result, as is
maintained, that final judgment was rendered upon an

RUST LAND CO. v. JACKSON.
71.

Opinion of the Court.

erroneous theory respecting the location of the interstate
boundary line.
It is the contention of plaintiff in error that by the lastmentioned motion the validity of the authority of this
court to determine the issues involved in the suit between
the States was drawn in question, and that the decision
of the Supreme Court of Mississippi was against its
validity.
We do not, however, regard the ruling of the state court
as having involved the authority or jurisdiction of this
court to render a conclusive decision in the suit between
the States respecting the location of the boundary line;
and hence do not consider that there was any question
concerning the validity of "an authority exercised under
the United States" within the meaning of § 237. The
question raised involved merely the consequences that
were to flow from the exercise of an admittedly valid
authority under the United States, that is to say, the
effect upon the rights of third parties of a particular
exercise by this court of its constitutional jurisdiction over
a controversy between two States; the concrete questions
being (a) whether, in the event that our decision should
be adverse to the State of Mississippi-and therefore,
according to the theory of plaintiff in error, inconsistent
with the title of its opponents-plaintiff in error would be
entitled to set up that decision and judgment as conclusive
against defendants in error; and (b) whether, in aid of
such right, plaintiff in error was entitled to have the
suit against it in the state court stayed to await our
decision in the suit between the States. In effect, the
contention was that the original jurisdiction conferred by
the Constitution upon this court in controversies between
States was of such a nature as to render our decree made
in a suit of that kind binding upon private parties asserting opposing claims to lands in the disputed territory, and
to prevent such private parties from prosecuting their liti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

250 U. S.

gation in a state court pending our determination of the
suit between States. In setting up this contention plaintiff
in error did no more than assert a title, right, privilege,
or immunity under the Constitution of the United States.
This, at most, afforded ground for an application to this
court for a review of the resulting judgment by certiorari,
but not for a writ of error. The case of Cissnav. Tennessee,
242 U. S. 195; 246 U. S. 289, 293, in which a similar question was raised but not passed upon, was brought to this
court by writ of error, but before § 237, Judicial Code, was
amended by the Act of 1916. The present writ of error
must be dismissed.
On the eve of the argument a writ of certiorari was
applied for; but as this was long after the expiration of
the three months limited by § 6 of the Act of September 6,
1916, the application cannot be entertained, irrespective
of whether the record shows a proper case for the allowance of that writ.
Writ of error dismissed.
Application for writ of certioraridenied.

FILLIPPON v. ALBION VEIN SLATE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 241.

Argued March 18, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

In response to an inquiry from the jury, who had retired to consider of
their verdict, the trial court sent them a supplementary instruction
in writing on a question of contributory negligence. Held error, the
parties and their counsel being absent and no opportunity being
given them either to be present or to make timely objection.
P. 80.

