BANK OF OXFORD v. LOVE.
5906.

Syllabus.

in ascertaining the amount of such compensation in particular cases, take into consideration any substantial physical impairment attributable to the injury, whether it immediately affects earning capacity or not.
For the reasons thus outlined, it was not unreasonable,
arbitrary, or contrary to fundamental right to embody in
the New York Workmen's Compensation Law a provision
for a special allowance of compensation for a serious disfigurement of the face or head. Nor is there any ground
for declaring that the allowance prescribed by the 1916
amendment exceeds the constitutional limitations upon
state power.
Whether an award for such disfigurement should be
made in combination with or independent of the compensation allowed for the mere inability to work is a matter of
detail for the State to determine. The same is true of the
question whether the compensation should be paid in a
single sum, or in instalments. Arizona Employers' Liability
Cases, ante, 400, 429.
Judgments affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

dissents.

BANK OF OXFORD ET AL. v. LOVE ET AL., BANK
EXAMINERS OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT

OF THE STATE OF

MISSISSIPPI.
No. 9. Submitted March 27, 1918; restored to docket for oral argument April 22, 1918; argued October 10, 1919.-Decided November 10, 1919.

A provision in the special charter of a state bank that its business shall
be confided to and controlled by its stockholders under such rules
as it may adopt, not in conflict with the Constitution of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

States or of the State, is not inconsistent with the exercise of the
general power of the State to cause the affairs of such bank to be
examined and reported on by state officials and to exact a reasonable
annual assessment (1/40 of 1 per cent. of the total assets) for the
maintenance of the state banking department; and a general law,
so operating, does not impair the contract obligation of such special
charter. P. 606.
111 Mississippi, 699, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Thos. A. Evans, with whom Mr. Geo. D. Lancaster,
Mr. B. L. Mayes and Mr. Jas. Stone were on the brief, for
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Earle N. Floyd, Assistant Attorney General of the
State of Mississippi, with whom Mr. Ross A. Collins,
Attorney General of the State of Mississippi, and Mr.
Robert H. Thompson were on the brief, for defendants in
error.
MR.JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
A special act of the Mississippi Legislature, approved
March, 1872, incorporated the Bank of Oxford and authorized it to "exercise the privilege appertaining to a general
banking, exchange and brokerage business, with all the
power of a body corporate." Section IV declares: "That
the business of said bank shall be confided to and controlled by its stockholders under such rules of laws and
regulations as said Company may see fit to adopt, Provided; the same be not in conflict with the Constitution of
the United States or of this State." It was immediately
organized, and has continued to carry on business under
the charter so granted.
By a comprehensive act containing sixty-nine sections,

BANK OF OXFORD v. LOVE.
603.

Opinion of the Court.

approved March 9, 1914, the legislature prescribed general regulations concerning banking. Its scope is fairly
indicated by the title, copied below.' Section 23 provides:
"Each bank subject to the provisions of this act is hereby
assessed for each year one-fortieth of one per cent. of its
total assets, and the money accruing from said assessment
shall be used for the maintenance of the banking department."
After paying one assessment under protest, plaintiff
bank, May 14, 1914, instituted this proceeding in the
Chancery Court for Hinds County. The original bill sets
up and relies upon the charter of 1872 as a contract, protected by the Federal Constitution, which by confiding
control to stockholders excludes legislative authority in
respect thereto. It alleges: "That the said bank examiners
are threatening to interfere with the affairs of this bank,
and to exercise such powers as are provided for by said
statute [of 1914] over this bank, and are threatening to
1 "An act establishing a banking department for the State of Mississippi, creating a board of bank commissioners, prescribing their qualifications, duties and compensation, providing for the election of State
bank examiners, prescribing their qualifications, duties and compensation, defining what shall constitute a bank and banking business in the
State of Mississippi, fixing the capital required to do a banking business, and providing for the examination, regulation and control of
banks and banking business conducted by corporations, other than
national banks and postal savings banks and fixing the assessment for
the revenues of the department, fixing qualifications and liability
of officers, stockholders and directors of banking corporations; fixing
the qualifications and liability of persons, firms and corporations in the
banking business; providing for the payment of deposits to minors and
other persons under disability and on joint account; prohibiting banking except under the provisions of this act; providing for the liquidation
of banks and the distribution of the assets thereof; providing for giving
publicity to deposits more than five years old; and prescribing penalties
for the breach of any of the provisions thereof, and to provide a system
for guaranteeing deposits, and for other purposes, without expense to
the State."

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

make such examinations and reports upon and about, and
to exercise all the other authorities and powers provided
for by such statute, over the affairs of your orator, said
bank. And your orator pleads hereby, and invokes for
such, its contract, immunity from such supervision and
control, the said contract clause of the Constitution of the
United States, and claims its right exclusively to control
and manage the affairs of its own bank." And further:
"Your orator protests and shows that it was not subject to
the provisions of said banking law, and by its said contract
charter, the whole scheme, so devised, as applied to your
orator bank, was unconstitutional and void; and your
orator shows that for such reason it was not subject to
assessment devised and contrived only for the purpose of
maintaining such bank department; and your orator was
protected against the payment of such assessment, also,
by the said contract clause of the Constitution of the
United States." The prayer is for an injunction perpetually restraining defendants and their successors from examining or undertaking to enforce as against the complainant any provision contained in the Act of March 9, 1914,
and for a decree requiring repayment of the sum assessed
and paid under protest.
No argument is required to show that the charter of
1872 constitutes a contract protected by the Federal
Constitution. But the construction placed upon ยง IV by
counsel for plaintiffs in error is not tenable. It really contains nothing which purports to take away commonly
recognized power of the State to establish such reasonable
and general regulations of banks as may be essential to
public safety, and to enforce them through a board supported by moderate assessments upon those engaging in
the business.
While the bill proceeds upon the theory that the bank's
affairs are wholly exempt from interference by legislative
,direction, the only past or immediately probable wrongs

GROESBECK v. DULUTH, S. S. & A. RY. CO.
603.

607

Syllabus.

adequately complained of are enforced contribution to
expense of the banking department and threats by defendants to make examinations and reports. And we think
it clear that no impairment of the corporate charter has
resulted or will result from reasonable examinations and
reports by duly authorized officers and the small prescribed payments. It is unnecessary to consider other
distinct provisions of the statute, and, of course, we intimate no opinion concerning them.
The Supreme Court of the State affirmed a decree of the

Chancery Court dismissing the bill upon demurrer, and
its action must be

Afirmed.

GROESBECK ET AL. v. DULUTH, SOUTH SHORE
& ATLANTIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 254.

Argued October 15, 1919.-Decided November 10, 1919.

The laws of Michigan prescribing a maximum intrastate passenger fare
for railroads whose gross passenger earnings equalled a certain
amount per mile required that all lines of a railroad within the
State should be treated as a unit in computing such earnings, and
in applying the rate limitation. In determining whether the rate
was confiscatory in this caseHeld: (1) In the absence of any suggestion of illegality or mismanagement in acquisition or operation, all parts of the railroad's
system within the State, profitable or unprofitable, should be emraced in the computation. P. 611.
(2) Unremunerative parts were not to be excluded because built and
used primarily for interstate traffic (p. 611), or because not required
to supply local transportation needs (p. 612); nor was a reasonable,

