OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Syllabus.

250 U. S.

Code, ยง 238; Rakes v. United States, 212 U. S. 55, 58;
Lamar v. United States, 240 U. S. 60, 65. And we deem it
too clear for serious discussion that, as enforced below, the
statute deprived plaintiffs in error of no right guaranteed
by any of the constitutional provisions relied upon. With
full knowledge they voluntarily asked to deposit money
with the clerk and later requested that he be required to
pay it out. Having thus obtained his services they now
deny his claim for compensation. Obviously, nothing
was taken from them without due process of law; their
property was not taken for public use; they were not
deprived of any privilege or immunity enjoyed by citizens
of other States; and the record reveals no relation between
the contested charge and any excessive bail. We think the
suggested constitutional questions are wholly wanting in
merit and too insubstantial to support our jurisdiction.
Brolan v. United States, 236 U. S. 216, 218. The writ of
error must be
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES and MR. JUsTIcE BRANDEIS

dissent.

CAREY v. STATE OF SOUTH DAKOTA.
ERROR To THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
DAKOTA.

No. 346.

Submitted April 29, 1919.-Decided May 19, 1919.

Section 29, Laws of South Dakota, 1909, c. 240, which forbids shipment
by carrier of wild ducks and is applicable whether the birds were
taken lawfully or unlawfully, or shipped in open or closed season,
is not inconsistent with the Federal Migratory Bird Act of March 4,
1913, c. 145, 37 Stat. 828, 847, and the regulations of the Department of Agriculture adopted thereunder, since the latter act pro-

CAREY v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
118.

Opinion of the Court.

hibits only the destruction or taking of birds contrary to the regulations and the regulations merely prescribe the closed seasons, and
neither the act nor the regulations deals with shipping. P. 120.
Whether other provisions of this state law may be in conflict with
the federal act is not considered, since the provisions in question may
stand alone. Id.
The declaration of the federal act that the migratory birds "shall hereafter be deemed to be within the custody and protection of the Government of the United States," is limited by the context to the prohibition above stated. P. 121.
39 S. Dak. 524, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Joe Kirby for plaintiff in error. Mr. Joe H. Kirby
and Mr. Thos. H. Kirby were on the brief.
Mr. Clarence C. Caldwell, Attorney General of the State
of South Dakota, Mr. Edwin R. Winans and Mr. Byron S.
Payne, Assistant Attorneys General of the State of South
Dakota, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

court.
By the Federal Migratory Bird Act (March 4, 1913, c.
145, 37 Stat. 828, 847) Congress provided that: "All wild
geese, wild swans, brant, wild ducks, snipe, plover, woodcock, rail, wild pigeons, and all other migratory game and
insectivorous birds which in their northern and southern
migrations pass through or do not remain permanently
the entire year within the borders of any State or Territory, shall hereafter be deemed to be within the custody
and protection of the Government of the United States,
and shall not be destroyed or taken contrary to regulations
hereinafter provided therefor." These regulations relate
to the fixing of "closed seasons, having due regard to the
zones of temperature, breeding habits, and times and line
of migratory flight." The act further declared that "noth-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

ing herein contained shall be deemed to affect or interfere with the local laws of the States and Territories for
the protection of nonmigratory game or other birds resident and breeding within their borders, nor to prevent
the States and Territories from enacting laws and regulations to promote and render efficient the regulations of
the Department of Agriculture provided under this
statute." Regulations were proclaimed October 1, 1913,
38 Stat. 1960; and were amended by the Proclamation
of August 31, 1914, 38 Stat. 2024, and the Proclamation of
October 1, 1914, 38 Stat. 2032.
Before the passage of the federal law the legislature of
South Dakota had provided (Laws 1909, c. 240, ยง29)
that "No person shall .

.

.

ship, convey or cause to be

shipped or transported by common or private carrier, to
any person, either within or without the state
.
wild
duck of any variety. . . ." For violation of this statute

by shipping on November 19, 1915, by express, wild ducks
from a point within the State to Chicago, Illinois, Carey
was prosecuted in a state court. He insisted that the
state statute had been abrogated by the federal law. The
contention was overruled and he was convicted by the
trial court. Its judgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State (39 S.Dak. 524). The case comes here
on writ of error under ยง237 of -the Judicial Code.
It is admitted that, in the absence of federal legislation
on the subject, a State has exclusive power to control
wild game within its borders and that the South Dakota
law was valid when enacted, although it incidentally
affected interstate commerce. Geer v. Connecticut, 161
U. S.519; Silz v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S.31. The contention
made by Carey is that Congress assumed exclusive jurisdiction over this class of migratory birds by the 1913 Act;
that then existing state laws on the subject were thereby
abrogated or suspended; that the power of the States to
legislate on the subject was limited to such subsequent

CAREY v. SOUTH DAKOTA.
118.

Opinion of the Court.

enactments as were designed to render more effective
regulations issued by the Department of Agriculture, and
that the statute in question was obviously not of that
character, both because it antedated the federal act and
because the regulations issued under the federal act permitted the killing of wild ducks in South Dakota between
September 7 and December 1, during which period the
wild ducks shipped on November 19 had presumably been
killed. On behalf of the State, it was contended that this
provision of its statute is not inconsistent with the federal
law; and that its statute is in any event valid, because the
federal law is unconstitutional. United States v. McCullagh, 221 Fed. Rep. 288. The Supreme Court of
South Dakota did not pass upon the constitutional question; but upheld the state statute on the ground that it
was not inconsistent with the federal law, since it did not
appear that the ducks in question had been killed in
violation of any regulation adopted under it.
The prohibition of the federal act is limited to the provision that the birds "shall not be destroyed or taken
contrary to regulations." The regulations merely prescribe the closed seasons. That is, neither the federal law
nor the regulations deal with shipping.' The prohibition
of the state law here in question is limited to forbidding
persons to "ship . . . by common or private carrier." It applies alike whether the shipment is made in
open or closed season; and it applies although the birds
were lawfully killed or taken. This provision of the state
law is obviously not inconsistent with the federal law. The
fact that other provisions of this state statute may be so
(which we do not consider) is immaterial, as the provision here in question may clearly stand alone. Brazee v.
Michigan, 241 U. S. 340, 344; Guinn v. United States,
238 U. S. 347, 366; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
' The Migratory Bird Treaty Act (July 3, 1918, c. 128, 40 Stat. 755)
deals in ยง 4 with shipments in interstate commerce.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

Garrett, 231 U. S. 298, 311; Presser v. Illinois, 116 U. S.
252, 263.
It is, however, urged that Congress has manifested its
intention to assume exclusive jurisdiction of the subject;
and that the failure to make any provision in the federal
act concerning shipping, evidences the purpose of Congress that the shipping of game birds shall not be prohibited. This argument rests upon the clause which declares that the migratory birds "shall hereafter be deemed
to be within the custody and protection of the Government of the United States." But that clause may not
be read without its context; and the words immediately
following show that the custody and protection is limited
to prohibiting their being "destroyed or taken contrary
to regulations" which are to fix the closed seasons in the
several zones. If, reading the federal act as a whole,
there were room for doubt, two established rules of construction would lead us to resolve the doubt in favor of
sustaining the validity of the state law. First: The intent
to supersede the exercise by a State of its police powers is
not to be implied unless the act of Congress fairly interpreted is in actual conflict with the law of the State.
Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 533; Missouri, Kansas &
Texas Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613, 623. Second:
Where a statute is reasonably susceptible of two interpretations, by one of which it would be clearly constitutional
and by the other of which its constitutionality would be
doubtful, the former construction should be adopted.
Harriman v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 211 U. S.
407, 422; Knights Templars' Indemnity Co. v. Jarman, 187
U. S. 197, 205.
The Supreme Court of South Dakota did not err in its
judgment upholding the constitutionality of the provision
of the state statute under which the plaintiff in error was
convicted; and its judgment is
Affirmed.

