PITTSBURGH &c. RY. CO. v. FINK.
573.

Syllabus.

until long after the decree set up here as a bar. If those
allegations are proved the composition would not discharge the claim, and of course they were not passed upon
in the bankruptcy Court. A decree that, as we have tried
to show, cannot be taken to deal with the defendants'
rights does not give ancillary jurisdiction to the District
Court to enforce it against them. The concession by the
demurrer that Thompson was a special partner does not
affect the scope of the decree, and the jurisdiction depends
upon that alone. It is true that if he was only liable as a
special partner the South Carolina suit cannot be maintained, but the allegations of fraud open the whole matter
and moreover the question here is not whether that suit
can be maintained but whether an injunction against it
should be issued by the District Court.
The appeal is dismissed and upon the writ of certiorari
the decree dismissing the bill is affirmed.
Appeal dismissed.
Decree affirmed.

PITTSBURGH, CINCINNATI, CHICAGO & ST.
LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. FINK.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF MONTGOMERY COUNTY,
STATE OF OHIO.
No. 2.

Argued October 7, 1919.-Decided November 10, 1919.

Under the Act to Regulate Commerce, it is unlawful for a carrier to
accept less than the tariff rate as compensation for the interstate
transportation of goods. P. 581.
A consignee accepting delivery of the goods must be presumed to have
understood this. Id.
The carrier has a lien for the lawful charges until they are tendered or
paid, and a consignee who obtains the goods at destination upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

250 U. S.

payment of less, due to a misunderstanding by himself and the carrier of the rate lawfully applicable, must be deemed to have assumed the obligation of paying the full lawful rate, and isliable to
the carrier accordingly. P. 582.
An agreement with the consignor that title to the goods shall not pass
to the consignee until delivery can not alter the situation. Id.
Nor can the hardship to the consignee, resulting from his misunderstanding and subsequent change of situation in reliance on it; since
the requirements of the statute can not be avoided by estoppel.
Id.
19 Ohio C. C. (n. s.) 103, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William M. Matthews, with whom Mr. Edwin P.
Matthews was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Roy G. Fitzgerald, with whom Mr. Thos. H. Ford,
Mr. Wayne F. Lee and Mr. Win. F. Hyers were on the
brief, for defendant in error:
Fink neither expressly nor impliedly agreed to pay any
freight. The railroad company made it a condition that
he pay the bill before he could examine the goods offered
him by the shipper; and Union Pacific R. R. Co. v. American Smelting & Refg. Co., 202 Fed. Rep. 720, is therefore
not applicable. Plaintiff in error's other cases are based
upon bills of lading stipulating that the "consignee is to
pay the freight."
As between Fink and the railroad company, the principle of estoppel still applies as stated in Hutchinson on
Carriers, 3d ed., § 807, and CentralRailroad of New Jersey
v. MacCartney, 68 N. J. L. 165; for, while the amount of the
freight rate is not the subject of private contract, the law
must not be used as an instrument of injustice and oppression, and that without any justification based upon the
requirement of the Interstate Commerce Act to collect
the lawful freight, since the consignor is primarily liable
and, even if the charges were to be collected from the con-

PITTSBURGH &c. RY. CO. v. FINK.
577.

Opinion of the Court.

signee, the liability of the consignor is not discharged.
British & F. M. Ins. Co. v. Portland F. M. Co., 124 Fed.
Rep. 855; 130 Fed. Rep. 860; Finn v. Railroad Co., 112
Massachusetts, 524; Hutchinson on Carriers, § 810; Atlas
S. S. Co. v. Colombian Land Co., 102 Fed. Rep. 358; Great
Western Ry. Co. v. Bagge & Co., 15 Q. B. Div. 626; Baltimore & Ohio S. W. Ry. Co. v. New Albany Box Co., 48
Ind. App. 647; Keeling v. Connally & Co., 157 S. W. Rep.
232; Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. Floyd, 161 S. W. Rep. 954.
The Interstate Commerce Act simply enjoins upon a
carrier the duty of collecting the proper freight charges
from the party who is legally liable at common law to pay,
and does not create any new liability or impose any
additional burden upon consignor or consignee. [Quoting from § 6 of Interstate Commerce Act of 1887, and
amendments; Rule No. 314, Collection of Undercharges,
Conference Rulings of the Interstate Commerce Commission.]
At common law there is a presumption of fact that the
consignee is the owner of goods shipped and hence liable
for freight. 4 Elliott on Railroads, § 1559. But this presumption may be rebutted by proof of the facts, as in this
case. Blanchard v. Page, 8 Gray, 281; Sanders v. Van
Zeller, 4 Ad. & El. N. S. 260; Van Zile on Bailments and
Carriers, § 702; Lawrence v. Minturn, 17 How. 100.
Fink's position in this case is sustained by well considered opinions in the States of Alabama and New York.
Central of Georgia Ry. Co. v. Southern Ferro C. Co., 193
Alabama, 108; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Titus, 156 App.
Div. 830. See also, FrontierS. S. Co. v. Central Coal Co.,
234 Fed. Rep. 30.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

An action was brought by the Railway Company before
a Justice of the Peace in Montgomery County, Ohio, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

recover fifteen dollars, the freight charges upon a shipment
in interstate commerce from Los Angeles, California, to
Dayton, Ohio.

The defendant, Fink, prevailed in the

Magistrate's court, the judgment was reversed in the
Court of Common Pleas, the case was taken to the Court
of Appeals of Montgomery County where the judgment
of the Court of Common Pleas was reversed and that of
the Magistrate affirmed. 19 Ohio Circuit Court, New
Series, 103. The Supreme Court of Ohio denied a motion
to require the record to be certified to it by the Court of
Appeals, and the case is here upon writ of error to the
Court of Appeals of Montgomery County, Ohio.
The facts are that the railroad company on September
13, 1910, delivered to Fink, the consignee, two boxes of
Indian relics shipped to him at Dayton, Ohio, from Los
Angeles, California, the waybill specifying charges in the
sum of fifteen dollars, which sum Fink paid upon receipt of
the goods. The tariff rates filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission so classified this merchandise that the
transportation charges should have been thirty dollars instead of fifteen. It is for the difference that this action is
prosecuted.
It appears that Fink had dealt with the consignor at Los
Angeles in suchwise that some old coins, belonging to Fink,
were to be traded for a collection of Indian relics. Fink
shipped the coins to the postmaster at Los Angeles to be
held for his protection. At the time the action was
brought, about one year after the shipment, the postmaster had released the coins, and Fink had sold some of
the relics. Fink testified that he had no knowledge of
the freight classification and rates, and simply paid the
freight bill as it was presented to him. No agreement
appears to have been made with the consignor that Fink
should pay the freight charges.
Examination shows some conflict of authority as to the
liability at common law of the consignee to pay freight

PITTSBURGH &c. RY. CO. v. FINK.

577.

Opinion of the Court.

charges under the circumstances here shown. The weight
of authority seems to be that the consignee is prima facie
liable for the payment of the freight charges when he
accepts the goods from the carrier. (See the cases collected and discussed in 4 Elliott on Railroads, § 1559.)
However this may be, in our view the question must be
decided upon consideration of the applicable provisions
of the statutes of the United States regulating interstate commerce. The purpose of the Act to Regulate
Interstate Commerce, frequently declared in the decisions
of this court, was to provide one rate for all shipments of
like character, and to make the only legal charge for the
transportation of goods in interstate commerce the rate
duly filed with the Commission. In this way discrimination is avoided, and all receive like treatment, which it is
the main purpose of the act to secure.
Section 6 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, which was
in force at the time of this shipment, provides: "Nor shall
any carrier charge or demand or collect or receive a greater
or less or different compensation for such transportation
of passengers or property, or for any service in connection
therewith, between the points named in such tariffs than
the rates, fares, and charges which are specified in the tariff
filed and in effect at the time; nor shall any carrier refund
or remit in any manner or by any device any portion of the
rates, fares, and charges so specified, nor extend to any
shipper or person any privileges or facilities in the transportation of passengers or property, except as are specified
in such tariffs." It was, therefore, unlawful for the carrier
upon delivering the merchandise consigned to Fink to depart from the tariff rates filed. The statute made it unlawful for the carrier to receive compensation less than the
sum fixed by the tariff rates duly filed. Fink, as well as
the carrier, must be presumed to know the law, and to have
understood that the rate charged could lawfully be only
the one fixed by the tariff. When the carrier turned over

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

250 U. S.

the goods to Fink upon a mistaken understanding of the
rate legally chargeable, both it and the consignee undoubtedly acted upon the belief that the charges collected
were those authorized by law. Under such circumstances
consistently with the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act the consignee was only entitled to the merchandise when he paid for the transportation thereof the
amount specified as required by the statute. For the legal
charges the carrier had a lien upon the goods, and this lien
could be discharged and the consignee become entitled to
the goods only upon tender or payment of this rate. Texas
& PacificRy. Co. v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242. The transaction,
in the light of the act, amounted to an assumption on the
part of Fink to pay the only legal rate the carrier had the
right to charge or the consignee the right to pay. This
may be in the present as well as some other cases a hardship upon the consignee due to the fact that he paid all
that was demanded when the freight was delivered; but
instances of individual hardship cannot change the policy
which Congress has embodied in the statute in order to
secure uniformity in charges for transportation. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Maxwell, 237 U. S. 94. In that
case the rule herein stated was enforced as against a passenger who had purchased a ticket from an agent of the
company at less than the published rate. The opinion in
that case reviewed the previous decisions of this court,
from which we find no occasion to depart.
It is alleged that a different rule should be applied in
this case because Fink by virtue of his agreement with the
consignor did not become the owner of the goods until
after the same had been delivered to him. There is no
proof that such agreement was known to the carrier, nor
could that fact lessen the obligation of the consignee to pay
the legal tariff rate when he accepted the goods. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Titus, 216 N. Y. 17. Nor can the defendant in error successfully invoke the principle of estop-

STILSON v. UNITED STATES.

677.

Syllabus.

pel against the right to collect the legal rate. Estoppel
could not become the means of successfully avoiding the
requirement of the act as to equal rates, in violation of the
provisions of the statute. New York, New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co. v. York & Whitney Co., 215 Massachusetts,
36, 40.
In our view the Court of Common Pleas correctly held
Fink liable for the payment of the remaining part of the
legal rate upon the merchandise received by him. The
judgment of the Court of Appeals of Montgomery County,
Ohio, is reversed, and the cause remanded to that court
for further procedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

Reversed.

STILSON v. UNITED STATES.
SUKYS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Nos. 264, 265.

Argued October 20, 21, 1919.-Decided
November 10, 1919.

The denial of a severance in a criminal case is within the discretion of
the judge. P. 585.
The Constitution does not require Congress to grant peremptory challenges to defendants in criminal cases; and the long-standing pro-

vision of law (now in Jud. Code, § 287) that all of several defendants
shall be treated as one for the purposes of such challenges does not
infringe the right to an impartial jury guaranteed by the Sixth
Amendment. Id.
In a prosecution for conspiracy to violate the Espionage and Selective
Service Acts, where the jury were in substance instructed to consider
certain publications uttered by the defendants, and determine
from them, considered with all the other evidence, whether they

