FEBRUARY, 1806.

337

argument, it has very properly, been answered, by the
cognsel for the plaintiff, that the long enumeratioh of
characters exempted from militia duty which follows,
presents ofily one description of persons ; custom,-house
oftic6rs, and those who hold a commission from the President, or are appointed by him; and of these, by far
the greater number do nothold such commission. The
argument, therefore, not being supported by the fact,
is Inapplicable-to the case.

W~lL

The law furnishing no justification for a departure
from the plain and obvious import of the words, the
court must, in conformity with that impbrt, declare
that a justice of the peace, within the district of Columbia, is exempt from the performance of' militia
duty.
It follows, from this opinion, that a court martial has
-nojurisdiction over a justice of the peace, as a militia,
man; he could never be legally enrolled: and it is a
principle, that a decision of such a tribunal, in a case
clearly without its jurisdiction, cannQt protect the offi.
cer who executes it, The court qtd the officer are all
trespassers.
The judgmeit isreversed, and the cause remanded
for furtler proceedings.

THE UNITED STATES v, GRUNDY AND
THORNBURGH.

TnuUztUvTn
STATnL
V.
AND

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States, for
the district of Baltimore, in an action for money had and
-:received for the use of the United States, by the defendants, as assignees of Aquila Brown, jun. a balkrapt ; it
being money received by. the defefidants for the sale of
the ship Anthony lkangin, which ship the United States
alleged was forfeited to them by reason that Brown, in
Xx
Vol. IM.

Tuorui-

nunac.

Under the

t of Con
gross of Dec.
31, 1792,
de- if
Vhil that
dares,'
, f9c oath

338

SUPREME COURTi;. S.

THEUNiZED order to bbtain a register for her, as a ship of the, Inited
,STTES
State, had falsely sworn that she vas his slek.propertyj
.,RvDy.
)hen he knew that she was in part oWned by an alien.
AND

Tifo-p.xBURGH.

On'the general, issue a verdict wis rendeced for tlie
defendants, and the plaintiffs took three bills of 4xcep-

b& taken in tiklS.
order tq pro-

.1. The jfrht stated that they gave in evidence to the
t
sel, trevessel jury, that on the'25th of November, 1801; and for sevecure a register for a yes*r its value

shall

be

ral months before and after,- Aquila Brown, iun. a jiti-

zen of the United States, and iiarlmaq Henry Hack/han,

forfeited, the a subject of the elector of Hanover, were copartners in
Unitdd States %

have an elec- merchandize, and carried bn Irade at Baltimore, under
tion to pro-' the firm of Brown and Ifackman, and that.Brown, at the
ceed against 'ame time carried on trade at Baltimore on his sepa",ate
te
vessel as account, under the firm of A. Brown, jun. That before
forfeited, or
against the ' that day4 and during the year prqceding, the ship Anthony
person who Wnjon was built, rigged, and equipped, within the
took the false Vnited States, Ior the house of frown and _llac man,
oath,
value. But
But un-ununder
e a contract
otrc made for them and under ther
ul authority,
til that elec- ana was paid tr with their funds, and.that on that day

Aiown applied to the'Collector, for a fister fo'r that ship,
in his own name and as his sole propeity, and for that
purpose took and subscribed the usual oath, Which conin the United tains an asseveration that he then was the true and only
States
; and owner or thAt ship,, and that no subject or citizen of any
teUnited
t e U nt foreign prince or state, -was then directly. or indirectly
tion is made,
the property
of the vessel
does ndt vest

maintain-'aninterested therein, or in the profits or issues thereof:
action for mo- whereupon, a register was granted to him in the usual.
ney bad and form. That- afterwards, and after the 28th day of the
received a.ianst the as- same November, A. Brown,jun. as well as Brownand
sigaees of the Hackman, were declared bankrupts, and ;their effect
person who sev'erallv assigned-the defendants being the assignees of
to
e oa.,
Brown jun. The plaintiffs, in order to prove that
become 4. tk- the ship, at the time of taking the oath, was the property
rupt; -the as- of the house of Brown and Hackman, and belonged in
mg sold. avthe part•""
.d himself as
to "tachman, tin aliens offered Htackman
.ig
vessel and re- a witmess, who objected to being sworn, alleging that hQ
cwivld the 9ught not.ta be compelled to give evidence against his
purchase mo- jnterest,.1Upon the voir dire he explained his interest
ney, befre thus : Tho if the plaintiffs should recover in this action,
seizure of tire
the fupds ;f the estate of Brown would be diminished by
voseL
the whole amount recovered. That Brown and Hackman had drawn and indorsed bills of exchange to a large

FEBRUARY, i806.

33

amount, which had come to the hands of the United TitnUT:ITrs

St~t¢s by indorsement, and he believed himself to be
liable therefor in case of failure of the funds of Bro=.
Whereupon, the court was of opinion that he was not a
competent witness for the plaintiffs.

2. The second bill of exceptions stated, (in addition
to the facts containedjn the first) that the plaintiffs, in
order to prove that at the time of the oath, the ship was
the property of 'Brown and Hackman, offered to swear a
witness to prove that in a book, purporting to be one of
the books of account of Brown and Hackman, in the possession of one of the assignees of Hackman, who refused
to produce it at the trial, although it was then in his possession, he saw an entry in the hand-writing of Hackman,
Purporting to be made on the 28th of November, 1801,
charging the freight of the ship, on her then intended
voyage, to the debit of Brown, and to the credit of
Brown and Hackman. But the co'urt rejected the cvidence as inadmissible for that purpose.
s. The third bill of exceptions (in addition to the facts
containecl in the former bills) stated that the plaintiffs
offered *tfdprove, that.at the time of Brown's taking the
okth and obtaining the register in his 'own name, the ship
was owned in part by Hackman, an alien, and that Brown
knew the fact to be so. That afterwards, and before the
bringing of this action, Brown became bankrupt and his
effects were assigned to the defendants. Thatat the time
of his bankruptcy, and of the assignnieht, the ship was in
his possession, and that by virtue of the assignment the
defendants took her into their possession as part of the
estate of Brown, and sold her to a certain Thomas W.
Norman, for 18,250 dollars,- which sum they received,
and at the time of trial had in their possession.
The defenidants then gave m evidence, that after the sale
,ofthe ship to 4VDrman, the United States seived her As forfeited ; and libelled her in the distriet court. That Normqu
file4 his rhlim, amd upon proof md haring, the jqdge di4missed the libel. Thai no action hW4 ever ben institeid
by the United States ag 4ast Brow Whereulon, the attorney for the United States prayed
thez ourt to,4ret the wry that if they belieyd the inat-

STATZS

Govai
AIND

Twonu-

SUPREME COURT U. S,
TnpUNI7ED
STATEs
V.

1GItVXDY
AND
THORsS US CH.

ters so offered in evidence on the part of the United
States, the United States Were entitled to recover, in
this action, the said sum of 18,250 dollarsj which direction the rourt refused to give; but instructed the jury
that if they believed that any of the matters of fact in the
oath of Brown alleged, were within his knowledge, 'and
were not truej the said evidence given by the plaintiffs was
not sufficient, in law, to maintain the present action.
Breclinridge$Attorney-General of the United States.
The great iuestion in this cause is, whether the property of the ship Anthony .Aangin, vested in the United
States, upon the commission of the act of forfeiture by
Brown, without a sentence of condemnation.
This action is founded on the nt of December 31st,
1792, "for registering and recording of ships and vessels. "' Laws U. S. vol. 2, p. 135. We contend that under
the 4th section of this act, no sentence of condemnation
was necessary to vest the property in the United States.
This section, after stating the nature of the oath required
in order to obtain a registe of te ship, sayd, "IAnd in
case any of the matters of "fact in the said oath alleged,
which shall be within tbt knowledge of the party so
swearing, shall not be true, there shall be a forfeiture of
the ship or vessel, together with her tackle, furniture,
and apparel, in respect to which the same sball have been
made, or of the value thereof,to be recovered (with costs
of suit) of the ferson by wham such oath shall have been
made."
A forfeiture by statute is analagous to a forfeiture at
common law. At the common law, by an outlawry,
the property of the outlaw immediately vests in the crown
without office found. Co. Lit. 128. (b.)
The English court, upon the statute of 12 Car. 2, c.
18, which creates forfeitures very similar to those of our
statute, have decided that by the act of forfeiture, the
property is so completely divested from the owner and
vested in the crown, that detinue can be maintained for it.
5 Mod. 193, Roberts v. Withered. Comb. 361. S. C. 12
Mod. 92. S. 6'. 1 SaM. 223. S. C. And Roohby J. said
" the property is divested out of the owner, by importa-

FEBRUARY, 1806.

341

tion, but not vested in him that sues until bringing the TnzUZ:tTzIS
STATES
action, or seizure." That case has been recognised and
%-.
-Inade the ground of decision in a Late case. 5 T. R.
ouwnr
112, Wilkins v. Despard. These cases decide that the
AND
right to recover either the specific goods, or their value,
Toa.does necessarily give to the court the right to determine

the question of forfeiture.
If the right of the United States was only inchoate
at the commencement of the suit, the judgment in this
case would have completed it as effectually as a sentence of condemnation. The United States might
have proceeded either in ren, or for the value of the
ship. They might either seize and libel the ship, or
sue the person.

In the case of seizure of a ship under the act of
August 4th 1790, Laws U. S. vol. 1, p. 237, there
nust.be a prosecution in conformity with the regulations of the 67th section of that act; and an important
question arises, whether we are thereby prevented
from proceeding in personam for the value of the thing
forfeited. We contend, that we may proceed either
way ; for of what use are the words " or the value
thereof," if the recovery must be by seizure and condemnation? The words being in the alternative, leave
us that option. In Roberts v. Withered, it is said,
"that though some persons proceed by way of information upon forfeitures, yet actions of detinue will, nevertheless, lie." 5 Mlod. 194. Supppse the act had declared, that the party shall forfeit 1,000 dollars, would
not an action lie for this money?
But admitting that the act of 1790 requires a sentence of condemnation to vest the right.in the United
States, we contend, that the 29th section of the act of
December 31, 1792, under which the present action
is brought, does not. Laws U. S. vol. 2, p. 157.
Although it refers to the act of I90, it is only'for
the purpose of designating the courts in which the recovery is to be had; and to the manner of disposing of
the forfeiture. It has no reference to the hind of suit,
or to the manner of proceeding, to effect the recovery

......

342
THSUNITED
STATES
GRUNDY
AND

THon-B

of the object.
"

SUPREME COURT U. S.
The words of the 29th section iam,

That all penalties and forfeitures which may be in-

curred, for offences, against this act, shall arid may be
sued for, prosecuted, and recovered, in such courts,
and be, disposed of in such manner, as any penalties and
forfeitures which may be incurred for offences against
the act (of 1790) may legally be sued foi', prosecuted,
recovered and disposed of."
The statute of 12 Car. 2, has stronger expressions to
show, tlat a sentence of condemnation wbs necessary
to vest the property. Its words are. " under the penalty of forfeiture of ship and goods, one moiety to
his'majefty, and the other moiety to him or them that
shall inform, eeize, or sue for the same." Our statute
is not only'silent as to the mode of recovery, whether
by intormation, seizure, or suit, but contains the words
1 or thevalue thereof," (which the British statute does
not) and, therefore, recognises any mode of recovery,
by which that value can be obtained.
It is not unworthy of remark, that vessels are, by
the act of 1790, rendered liable to forfeiture in three
cases, 14, 27 & 60, in neither of which is it declared, that " the value thereof" may be recovered. The
67th section, if intended to ascertain the forfeiture of
ships by seizure and condemnation only, may operate
consistently on that act, but it cannot, where an alternative is given to sue for the value.
'AS we cannot proceed in rem without a seizure, if
a transfer or sale gecures the property in the transferee,
or vendee, the law will, in this respect, be defeated.
Admitting that the vendee is safe, the offender i4
liable to be proceeded against in personam, for the
value of the -property forfeited : If so, his assignees,
in case of his bankruptcy, are also ; forhlis creditors
have but an equitable fien on his estate in the hands of
his assignees ; and the United States have a legal rightv
which, after suit brought, has relation back to the time
of the forfeiture.

FEBRUARY, 1806,

343

With respect to the exceptions to the itnesses, the
court, in rejecting the testimony of Fjackman, have
carried the doctrin farther than it i'warranted hy any
precedent. It was,! in fact, deciding that a witness
may.refuse to give testimony against a defendant, be.
cause .that defendant is his debtor, and his testimony,
by establishing the plaintiff's claim. would diminish
the, funds out of which the witness's claim might be
satisfied.
This interest is certainly too remote and contingent
to exclude the witness. It may, perhaps, affe't his
credibility, bux not his competency.
'The other witness, who was called to proye the
entry in the books of Brown & Hackman, was also
improperly rejected.
Aftei the rejection of Tackman himself, and after
provingthe book to be in the possession of the .o!potite
pArty, who refused to produce it, the next best evidence was the testimony of a person who had seen the
entry in the book, in the hand-writing of Hackman.
The judgment of the district court upon the libel, is
no bar to the present action. That judgment was not
given on the point of the forfeiture, but upon the ground
that the United States could not follow the tldng itself
into the hands of a bona fide purchaser, for a valuable
consideration, without notice. It does not bar the remedy in .personam.
P. B. Key, and Martin, contra.
1. As to the rejection- of Hackman, as a witness.
He was offered by the United States, to prove that
he was an alien, and was interested in the ship at the
time the oath was ,taken by Brown. The defendant
objected, and, upon the voir dire, he declared himself
iuferested,, and objected to answering against his interest. [Key was about to read an authority, when
the Ch. J. told him that no authorities would be re0ohnsn,
J. said he should
uired, on that 'point.

Tui.UNITro

S-rATZ3
V.

Gnu-my
AND
bU1ROU.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TnEUsz ,;'Dlike to see the authority, for his own

STAT.S

Gnuxvr
AND

To
BU
IRG Y,.
S

satisfaction.

Marshall, Ch. J. When we said there was no necessity.
for authorities, we meant, authorities to prove that a
man in a civil case, is not bound to testify against his
interest. But this does not preclude the objection,
that the facts stated by the -witness, as the ground of
his interent, did iot prove him to be interested.
then cited Peake's Law of Ev. "132.]

Key

2. As to the rejection of the witness who was
called to prove the entry in the books of Brown &
Hackman.
There was no proof that it was one of the books of
that firm ; nor was any notice gi-ven to the defendants
to produce it. It was not proved to be in he.possession of the defendants, but in that of the assignees of
Brown and Hackman, who were different persons.
The plaintiffs might have had a subpoena duces teczlm.
The ground of the opinion of the court was, that the
testimony offered was not the best evidence, as the
book itself might have been had.
3. The.important question in the cause is, whether,
by the act of forfeiture, the property vested in the
United States before condemnation?
We admit, that the owner of property may maintain
trover against a vendee claiming under a third person,
and disaffirm the sale ; or he may affirm the sale, and
bring an action for the price. The present- action is
grounded on the right of property being in the United
States at the time of the sale. The seizure of the
vessel was not made, by the United States, until after
the assignees of Brown had sold and delivered her to
a third person.
If the present action is not founded on the right of
property, the action should have been delt for the penalty, or a special action on the case, grounded upon
the statute, and averring 'every matter necessary to
entitle the United States to recover.

FEBRUARY,, 106.

349

"The right of the United State to the property de- TJ zU.ITtD
pendsupon the act' f 1792. The 4th section, which STATz
,declares, the forfeiture and'penalty, is 'silent as to'the

remedy. When the act creating a penalty is silent as
to its -mode of recovery, the action must be debt or'
case on the statute.
The only remedy, ,then, which the United Sttes
h ad; was'either by a seizure of ihe ship, or an acioin
of'debt, or special actiop on the case, for the penalty.
But -the present is an action for money had.andreceived.
It is iiot grounded on i crime or a tort.

The U~nited States have lost their remedy in rem, by
suffering it to be sold without notice, Upon this point,
the sentence of the district court, which has been ac-,
.qtiesced under, is conclusive ; for it goes upon the
-ground, that the United States had not the right to
the thing at the time of the, sale; for, if they had, the,
vendee gainedno lgal tide, and, therefore, could not'
be protected by-the want of notice. But he was pro.
tected by want of notice ; he must, therefore, have
gained a legal title, which could Ie protected. He
could gain his legal title only from the assignees, but
they could not convey a legal title which was not in
them. At the time of sale, therefore, the legal title
must have been in the assignees ; and, as there could
not be two legal titles to the same thing, at the same
time, in different persons, the tide could not be in the
- United States.
'This is the consequence which inevi- tably risults from the sentence.
Having lost their remedy against the thing, their
only,Iterngtive is an action for the penalty against the
Per47:i who-toQ1k the false oath. The act provides no
substi6ite for the process'in rem, but the action, against
that person ; it gives no right of action against the
person who may be in possession of the thing.
No action for the penalty will lie against Browtn's
assignees. It is in the nature of a criminal prosecution.
VDI. IIL

Yy

GnU.DZ*
AND

Tuomr-

346
!r11anU'ITzD
STrArs
V.
GRV.v
AiD

TIo1iiro
SyUnGH.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

,The act gives the. United States an election of one
of two remedies, but not of both. They may proceed
in rem, or in personam. Until their election is made,
the thing itself is not forfeited, for they may never
choose to proceed against the thing, but may piefer the
against the person.

Sremedy

They have made their election by proceeding in rem;
having failed there, they could not take the other side
of the alternative, and sue for its value. The sentence
has been submitted to, and is conchisive until reversed.
Suppose the libel had been dismissed because It was
not sufficiently proved that Brown had sworn falsely,
o- that he knew he was swearing falsely, could the
United States tirn round, and try the same question
again, upon an action against Brown for the penalty?
Or, after suing Brown for the penalty, and failing to
recover judgment against him, could they seize the
ship"and try the question over again ?
A judgment, until reversed, is conclasive as to the
subject matter of it, 2 Bur. 1009, Moses v. 2lacferlan.
At common law a forfeiture dois not alter the property, until there is some act done by the party claiming the forfeiture, either in pais, or of. tecord.
A forfeiture of lands relates back to the time laid in
the indictment; but the forfeiture of goods related to
the time of conviction. In both cases the time must
appear of record. Co. Lit. 390. (b.) 391. (a.)
In case of deodand, nothing is forfeited until it be
found by inquest. So in the case of felo de se, no part
of the personal estate is forfeited to the 'king, before
the self-murder is found by inquisition. So in the
cases of flight, and of goods waived, 1 Hawk. P. C.
101, 104.
The case of Roberts v. Withered, 5 2Mod. 193, war.
decided on the ground that an, action of detinue was a
process in rem, and equivalent to a seizure.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

34?

Harper,in repl,.

TsRU..-ITED
STA'raS
V.

1. As to the exclusion of HacAman' testimony.

Gummy

It may, perhaps, be safely admitted that if the testimony
has an immediate, direct, and certain effect upon his interest, a man may be excused from testifying. But in the present case itdepended upon severalcontingencies. I st.Whether Brown's estate would be sufficient to pay the claim
of the United States. 2d. Whether Hackman's certificate would bar the United States; a point not yet decided, and upon which legal opimiions differ. 3d. Whether the United States would choose to resort to Hac4mdn until ,the effects- of Brown were exhausted ; an~d,
4th. Whether there would be any surplus of Hackman's
estate. The authority from Peahe, 132, is not to the
point; .for-he says, that the testimony must go to establish a debt against himself, before tlHe witness can be excused from giving it. And the case which he cites-from
Strange, 46"6, shows that it is only .6 matter of indulgence, and not of right, even in such a case: for although
the witness was bail in the action, yet if he was a subscribing witness, the Chief Yustice said he would oblige

Tuozi-

AN~D

him to swear,

2.' As to the testimony respecting the book.
It was proved that the book was in the hands of the
assignee of Hackman, who refused to produce it. We
could not issue a subpxna duces tecum because the book
wag a private docuinent ; and it not being in the possession of the defendants we could not compel them to bring
it in under the act of Congress. Between a bankrupt and
his assignees, there is a perfect privity as t9 all matters of
coniract and interest. . The bhook, therefore, must be supposed to be in the hands of Hacmqn and as the court
refusedtQ compel hini to testify, or to-produce the book,
evidence of its contents was the next best evidence in
our power. As to thii care, it was as if the book had
been lost or destroyed, If a subscribing witness to a
bond, be out of the reach of the process of the court, you
cannot compel him to testify, but you niay give evidcnce
of his hand-writing.
3. As to the main question.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THrithTr
STATS
V.

.GRUXDY
AND
THoRN-

The defendants are not sued as assignees. The action
is against them in their own right, as having received
money to which the United States are entitled. We say
that they have taken property of thr United States, and
sold it, and we are entitled to the money.

SUIRGH.

The forfeiture of the vahie is to be recovered of the
person who took the oath; but this does not prevent the
United States from pursuing such other remedies as they
might have had by reason of the forfeiture. If, then, the
forfeiture gave the United States the right to the thing,
they are entitled to the present remedy.
The question is, at what time did the property vest in
the United States, by reason of the forfeiture ?
The case in 5 T. R. refers to, and recognises the law
as decided in Roberts v. Wit4ered, in 5 Mod. The decision there, was, that by the illegal act of the party the
property was divested out of him. The doctrine of
abeyance does not exist in any case : it has been laughed
out of existence. The property must be somewhere. If
it does not vest in aprivate owner, it goes to the sovereign, or to the government. If divested out of the
owfier, it goes eo instanti to the person to whose use it
is forfeited. When the forfeiture accrues to a private
person, he must do some act to entitle himself. But not
so in the case of the king ; it vests in him immediately.
He is not bound to do any act. In the case of Roberts,
qu tam. v. Withered, 5 Mtod. the right of the informer
did not accrue till the action brought ; but the whole had
gone to the king by the forfeiture. The offence divests
the property, but it is not vested in an informer, until action brought. In the mean time it is in the king. The
informer's right only vests by action.
There is a difference between a forfeiture by statute,
a forfeiture by common law. The cnQmmon law says,
the king shall have it if he will. But the statute says, it
shall absolutely vest in the king. By the statute, the king
speaking by the legislature, has determined his will. He
has made his election to have the thing. But the statutory remedy does not take away the commdn law remedy: it is cumulative. The United States are not obliged
to resort to the statutory remedy.
9 nd

FEBRUARY, 15206.

349

•But it issaid,.that the United States had an election,
and that no right to the thing vested until they made their
election. We may admit it; but we say we have elected
the present remedy.
Admit that we elected to seize the vessel. It had
escaped: it was gone out of ,our power. It was still an
election, and we are now proceeding in an action for its
value. The election will relate back. We have the
whole three years to make the election. If we pass the
three years, the property goes back to the former owner.
The value is not to be considered as a penalty, but as
a debt. We might have brought detinue or trover, 'or
the ship, instead of an action for the value, or a
seizure.
We admit the sentence cannot be inquired into ; but
it does not affect the preent question. The decisionwas
not on the point of the forfeiture.
February 22.
MARtSHiALL,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the

court.
This action is brought to recover money, received by
the defendants, for a ship sold by them as the assignees of
Aquila Brown, a bankruipt: which ship is considered,
in this cause, as having been liable to forfeiture, under
the " Act for registering and recording ships or vessels."
It is founded on the idea that, at the time of sale, the
ship was the property of the United States, in virtue of
the act of forfeiture which had been committed, and of
the proceedings of the United States in consequence of
that act.
It appears that in 1801, Aquila Brown, jun. then
carrying'on trade in his own name, in -Baltimore, obtained a register" for the Anthony Mxigin, as his sole
property Z having first taken the oath which the law requires, to enable him to obtain such register. He afterwards became a bankrupt, and the Anthony ilfangin passed, with his other effects, t) his assignees, who sold her
for the money ndw claimed by the United States. After

TuzU-ZTrw

SVTT.S
G.,L,,"

AM

SUPREME COURT U. S.
1 zUNTn

this sale, fats were-discovered, inducing the opinion tha.

STATES
V.

a certain Harman Henry Hackman, a foreigner, was

GU14DTAND

part owner of the vessel, a circumstance within the know-

Tnorm-

seized and libelled in the court of admiralty.

E-URGH.

ledge of Aquila Brovn ; and upon this ground she was

By the

sentence of that court, the libel was adjudged not to be
supported, and was dismissed. It is agreed, and is so
stated in the reasoning of the judge, which accompanied
his opinion, that this sentence was not intended to decide
the question of forfeiture ; but was founded on the alienation of the vessel before the forfeiture was claimed.
Acquiescing in this decision, the United States brought
the present action. At the trial, the judge instructed
the jury that this action was not maintainable, although
they should be of opinion that the fact alleged in the oath,
which was taken to obtain the register, was untrue within the knowledge of the person taking the oath. To this
instruction -an exception was taken ; and upon that,
among other points, the cause comes into this court.
The words of the act under which the right of the
United States accrues are: " And in case any of the
matters of fact in the said oath or affirmation alleged,
which shall be within the knowledge of the party so
swearing, or affirming, shall not be true, there shall be a
forfeiture of the ship or vessel, together with her tackle,
furniture, and apparel, in respect to which the same
shall have been made, of of the value thereof, to be recovered with costs of suit, of the person by whom such
oath or.affirmation shall have been made."
The question made at the bar is, whether, by virtue
of this act, the absolute property in the ship or vessel,
vests in the United States, either in fact or in contemlation of law, on the taking of the false oath ; or remains in
the owners until the United States shall perform some
act, manifesting their election to take the ship and not the
value.
So far as respects this question, the eiffect-of the sentence in the court of admiralty is put out of the case, for
the court has not decided what the effect of that sentence

will be.
It has been proved, that in all forfeitures accruing at
common law, nothing vests in the government until

FEBRUARY 1806.

351

some legal step shall be taken for ihe. assertion of its TK UmyxZ3
right, after which, for many purpose-, the doctrine of STATEs
relation carries back the title to the commission of the

Ga v.

offence; but the distinction, taken by the counsel for the
United, States, between forfeitures at common law, and
those accruing under a statute, is. certainly a sound
one. Where a forfeiture is given by a statute, the rules
of the common law may be dispensed with, and the thing
forfeited may either vest immediately, or on the perfbrmance of some particular act, shall be the will of
the legislature. This must depend upon the construction of the statute.

AND
T0o1.-1

The cases cited from .5th M'Tod. and 5th Durnford
& East, are certainly strong cases. WVhether the), can
be reconciled to the general principles of English law,
need not be considered, because the present inquiry respects the construction-of an act of Congress, containing
words which vary essentially from those used in the acts
of the British parliament, on which those decisions were
made.
The question, therefore, does the ship vest absolutely in
the United States, so as to make it their property, whether
such be the choice of the government or not, or may they
elect to reject the ship and proceed for its value, must
be decided by the particular words of the act.
The words taken according to their natural import, certainly indicate that an alternative is presented to the
United States. " There shall be a forfeiture of the ship,
-or of the value thereof, to be recovered with costs of
guit, of tile person by whom such oath shall have been
made."
Had a special action on the case been brought against
the person, by whom the oath was made, stating circumstances on which a forfeiture would arise, and aveiring
an election on the part of the United States, to claim the
value, it would be a very bold use of the power of construction which is placed in a court of jdstice, to say, that
such an action could not be maintained, because the vessel itself was vested in the government, and the value
was only given in the event of the vessel being withdrawn from. its grasp.

852

SUPREMEZ fOURT Ti..

TPXUXTED
STATES

In addition.to-the obVious and natural import of the
words usid'bylthe legislaiure, the opinion, that an alterna-

,V.
GRUNDY

tive is given to the government, derives some strength

AND

THoRNBURdG,

from the-consideration, that the forfeitures are claimed
from distinct persons. If the ship be 'forfeited she is
claimed from all the owners. In an action'for' the Anthony .Mangin, Harmani Henry Hackman could not have
defended himself by iaverring his interest in $ite vessel,
artd that only the share of'Brown was forfeited; but in
an action- against Hackman, for the value, the declaration, or information, must have averred that he was the
person who took the false oath, and -proof that it was
taken by his partner would not have supported that averment., They. are, then, distinct forfeitures, claimed from
different persons. The ship,_fr-om the owners; the
value from the particular owner who has taken the false
oath.

The United States are entitled to both, 'or to only one
of them. A right to both has not, and certainly gannot,
be asserted. If there be a right only to one, the government -may elect to, take either , but till the election be
made, the title to the onq is perfectly. equal to the title to
the other.
It seems to be of the very nature'of a right to 'elect
one of two things, that actual ownership is not acquired
in either, until it be elected; and ifthe penalty of an
offence, be not the positive forfeiture of a particular thing,
but one of two things, at the choice of the person claiming the forfeiture, it would seem to be altering, materially,
the situation in which that person is placed, to say, that
either is vested in him before he makes that choice. If
bothare vested, in him, it is not an election which to take,
but which to reject ; it is not'a forfeiture of one of two
things, but a-forfeiture of two things, of which one only
can'be retained.
That the legislature may pass such an ac:, is certain;
but that the one undei" consideration, is such an act, is
not admitted by the court.
If the property in the vessel was actually vested in
the United States by the commission of, the offence,
th'n"the judgment of a court, condemning the vessel,

FEBRUAJY, 1806.

353

or declaring it to belong to the government, would, in
fact, 4co nothing more than ascettain that the offence had
been committed; it would not vest the thing more cornpletely in the government, in point of right, than it was
vested by the commission of the bffence. If, notwih-.
-standing the -complete ownership of the vessel, which
the argument supposes in the government immediately
upon the act of forfeiture, and in virtue of that act, a'suit
for the value might have been maintained, it would
seem to follow that a judgment declaring the vessel, to
be the property of the United States, would not bar an
action for the value, provided the benefit of that judgment had .not been received by the United Statep.The real principle on which an action for the value can
be maintained would seem to be that the ship itself did
not belong to the United States'in consequence of the
false oath, but in consequence of the election to take the
ship. If this election be not made, and the government shall elect the value, then the property of the vessel remains in the original owners, and' is no obstacle to
a suit for the value. But if this.opinion be mistaken;
if the property in the ship be immediately invested in
the goviernm'ent, notwithstanding which the value may
.be claimed, the court cannot distinctly perceive why the
same action might not be maintained, notwithstanding
the declaration of a court that the property was in the
United States, provided the benefit of their judgment
was not obtained. In this view of the case, if the court
of admiralty had decreed in favor of the United Staes,
and the Anthony Zkangin had been destroyed before the
benefit of that judgment had been received, the person who had taken the false dath, might still have been
sued for the value. This would never be contended;
and yet if the absolute ownership of the vessel by the
Unitdd States does not preclude a right to sue for the
value before a judgment be rendered, there is some
difficulty in discerning when it will preclude that right.
In fact, the idea that one of two things is actually vested
in-government by an act to which forfeiture is attached,
seems incompatible with the idea of a right to elect
which of two things shall vest.
It seems, then, to be the necessary construction of the
act of congress that the United States acquired no
Vol, IIL
2z

TszU2Irs
STATSz
V.

Gnu:D3
AND

Tuozr-:

SUPREME COURT'U. S.
TUt UxNTE
ST-ATES

GiRuDY
AND
-THoR.,N

property in the Anthony 7fanfgin until they elected to
pursue that part of the alternative given by the statute.
Of consequence, the money-for which that vessel was

sold, was not, at the time, received for the use of the
United States ; but for the use of the creditors of the
bankrupt.

To decide finally on the propriety of supporting the
claim of the United States, as made in this action, under
that branch of the statute which forfeits the vessel,
another question still remains to be investigated. Has
the doctrine of relation such an influence upon this
casp, that an election subsequent to the sale shall carry
back the title of the United States to the commission of
the act of forfeiture, so as by this fiction of law t6 make
them the real owners of the vessel at the time of sale,
and consequently of the money for which she was sold?
Without a critical examination of the doctrine of
-relation, it would seem to be a necessary part of that
doctrine, that the title to a thing which is to relate back
to some former time, must exist againsi the thing itself,
not against some other thing which the claimant may
wish to consider as its substitute. To carry back the
title to the Anthony Zfangin to the act' of forfeiture,
the title to the Anthony .fangin must have an actual
existence. If no such title exists, then the right to
elect the vessel is lost; and the statute has not forfeited
the money for which she was sold in lieu of her. Suppose, instead of being sold by the defendants, she had
been exchanged by Aquila Brown himself for another
ship, would tl~at other ship have been forfeitable by the
doctrine of relation in lieu of the Anthony Aangin PClearly not; for the statute gives no such forfeiture.
The forfeiture attaches to thp thing itself, not to any
article for which the thing may be exchanged.
The court will not inquire whether ath action on the
case against Grundy & 7hornburgh,for money had and
received to the use of the United States, be a proper
action in which to establish a forfeiture for a fact committed by Aquila Brown. But some objections to it
may be stated which deserve consideration. It certainly gives no notice of the nature of the claim, a cir.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

355

eumstance with which,.in a case like this, the ordinary
rules of justice ought not to dispense. It asserts a
claim founded on a crime yet remaining to be proved,
not against the person who has committed that crime,
or against him who possesses the thing which is liable
for it, but against those who, though the assignees of
the effects, are not the assignees of the torts committed
by the bankrupt. It may change the nature of the defence.

The court suggests these difficulties as probably constituting objections to the action, without deciding on
them. The points previously deteimined show that
it is not maintainable in this case, under that alternative
of the statutp which subjects the vessel to forfeiture.
It remains to be inquired whether it cah be maintained under the provision which gives a right to sue for
the value.
Upon this part of the case no doubt was ever-entertained. Not only must the declaration specially set
forth the facts on which the right of the United States
accrued, and the law which gives their title, but the
action must be brought against the person who has committed the offence. Discarding those Wfords which relate to other objects, and reading those only bn which
the claim to the value is founded, the statute euacts
that "in case any of the matters of fact in the said bati
alleged whish shall be within the knowledge of the party
so swearing, shall not be true, there shall be a forfeiture
of the value of the vessel, in respect to which th q same
shall have been made, to be recovered, with costs of
suit, of the person by whom such oath shall have been.
made." It certainly requires no commeptary on these
words to prove that an action for the value can only be
supported against the person who has taken the oath.
It being the opinion of the court that this action is not
maintainable under any proof offered by the plaintiffs,
it was deemed unnecessary to inquire whether the
other exceptions in the record be well or ill founded.-

TrUnu.lxUT-D
STATUS

Gu.,v
AND
TOr.nm-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TUNTEP Without declaring any opinion respecting
STATES
judgment of the circuit court is affirmed.
V.

TXZ

CRUNDY

AND

them, the

Judgment affirmed.*:

THORNBURGH.

The opinion of Yudge Winchester, in the case of the United Statev
v. the Anthony Mqngin, Norman, claimant, referred to in the argument, was as follows:
The libel is grounded on the statute, for enrolling and regestbsing;
ships and vessels.
The proceeding being in rein, all the worll become parties to the
sentence, as far as the right of property is ivolved ; and of course,
all persons any wise interested in the property in question, are ad.
missible to claim and defehd their intcrdsts.
,The libel states the cause of action, with all the averments necessary to tupport the affirmative allegation, that a forfeiture has acprued.
The only claimant intervening in this cause, is. T. IV. Norman,
who alleges himself to be a purchaser bona fide, for a valuable consideration, ignorant of any cause offorfeiture existing at the time f the
purchase; and under such purchase, L e. bona fide, -and for valuable
consideration, claiming the property as exonerated from the cause of
forfeiture alleged, even if the facts stated to sustain the same be
true, which he in no wise admits.
On these proceedings, several questions of law have been raised
and argued by the counsel; and as the great point in the cause does
not appear to have ever received, either in this country or Great
'3Britain, any direct judicial determination, I have, with great dillgence, examined into the questions, which, from the breaking the
cause; I saw must necessarily be involved in the determination.
The opinion which I am now to give, though the result of more
than usual investigation, is delivered with the diffidence which
will ever attend the determination of an inferior court, upon a new,
great, and important legal question, and which will, probably re,eeive, as it ought, the ultimate judgment of the supreme court.
It is necessary.to keep in difierent views, the questions of fact,
:i f sgue, the quistions of law arising from those facts, and the par.
ties between whom they arise.
Itis to be distinctly remembered, that A. Brown, whose wilful
perjury-i alleged to sustain the forfeiture sued for, is no party to
this stlt; neither are his assignees, in any shape, parties to tils
quit, to be directly affected by the judgment. Every consideration,
therefore, which would support a prosecution against the actual offender, to recover the penalty of his wjlful crime, or which might
be alleged against those who stand in his situation, as privics in
law quo adthe forfeiture, must be laidout of te case.

