FEBRUARY, 1805.

19
WILSo

WILSON v. CODMAX's EXECUTOR.*

V.
E-FCU-ion.

ERROR from .the circuit court of the district of In a declara.
tion, the averColumbia, sitting at Alexandria.
ment that the
It was an action of debt originally brought by John aassignment
promimr of
Codman,.as assignee of a promissory note made by the note wamss r
defendant, Wilson, to Andrewi and William Ramsay4f ote rearrd
The declaration was as follows, viz. " John Codman, i! an iMmateaverment,
assignee of Andrew Ramsay and William Ramsay, rial
and need not
complains of William Wilson, in custody, &c. of a be proved. If
plea that he render unto him the sum of 1,038 dbllars the defendant
and 80 cents, which to him he owes, and from him un- plead the
justly detains, &c. for this, to wit, that whereas the the indosor
said defendant on the 26th day of June, 1799, at Alex- in bar, a repliz
cationthestating
andria, inthe county aforesaid,
" .by his certain note in that
note
writing, subscribed with his proper hand and name, has given to
and to the court now here produced, the date whereof, the indorsor,
&c. did promise to pay to the said Andrew and Vil- in trutfor the
liam Ramsay, or order, forty-five days after date, plaintn is not
a departure
1,038 dollars and
cents, for value received, negotia- from the de.
claration
said
Andrew
the
'and
ble in the bank of Alexandria;
and William Ramsay, afterwards, to wit, on the 23d which alleges
note to
day of October, inthe year of our Lord 1802, at the the
have been i.
county aforesaid, by their certain writing indorsed on yen by the dethe said note, and subscribed with their proper hands fendantforvareceived.
and names, assigned the said note to the saidplainti ,lue
, claims afor value received, of which assignment the said de- gaist the
fendant afterward., to wit, &c. had notice ; by means agent cannot
offset
whereof,' and by force of the act of assembly of Virgi- begainst
the
nia, in such case made and provided, before the year principal.
1801, action accrued," &c. There was an office-judg- Uponofthe
meat against the defendant and his appearance-bail, death the
plaintiffi and

appearance of
his executor,
wahington, the defendant
is not entitled
to a continuj"An act of assembly of Virginia authorises an assignee of a ance. Iluthe
promissory note to maintain an action of debt in his own name, may insist on
the producagainst the maker of ti note.
Present, .arihatl, Ch.J. Cuhing, .Pateonand
Justices.

Vol. II.

Cc

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILsoN
V.

to set aside which, the latter pleaded nil debet for his
principal, at June term, 1803.

CODMAN'S

Exculroi.
.At

December term, 1803, the suit was entered abation of the
ted by the plaintiff's death. Afterwards, at the. stme
letters testa-rm, on the motion of Stephen Codman, by his attor.
mentary, be-tem
th
fore the exe- ney, it was ordered, " that the said Stephen Codman,
cutor sh.dl be executor of John Codman, deceased, be made plaintiff
permitted to in this suit, with leave to prosecute the same."
prosecute.
At June term, 1804, the defendant gave special
bail, and " moved the court for a rule upon the plaintiff to grant oyer of'his letters testamentary, to enable
the defendant to answer the plaintiff, which was opposed by the plaintiff's attorney, a nd the motion was refused by the court," whereupon the defendant took a
bill of exceptions.
The plea put in by the appearance-bail for the principal, was withdrawn, and the
latter pleaded, 1st, nil debet, upon which issue wag
found, and, 2d, that' before the. 23d day of October,
1802, the time stated in the declaration, when A.
and W. Ramsay are supposed to have assigned the
said note to the said John Codman, the said A.
and, W. Ramsay had bt en declared bankrupts, &c.
and on the
day of March 1802, hao duiy (;btained their' final discharge, &c. To this plea the
plaintiff replied, that on the 20th of June, 1799, the
defendant was justly indebted to John Codman, the
testator, in the sum of 1,038 dollptrs and 80 cents, anti
in consideration thereof, on that day made and t xecuted the promissor.N note in tht declaration mentiont d,
fo" that sum, to A. an6 W. Ramsay, as the agents of,
and in trustfor the use qoJ the said John Codsnan, the
testator; and coneluded with a verification. TJo this
replication the defendant demurred specially ; 1st.
Be ause it is a departure from, and is inconsistent with,
the declaration, in this, that the declaration affirms, that
the said note was payable to Andrew and William
Ramsay, for value received, and was by them assigned,
for value received, to the said Jthn Codman ; and the
replication affil ins, that the said note was executed and
deliveredto the said A. anti W. Ramsay, as the agents
of, and in trust for the use of, the said John Codman.
2d. Because the plaintiff, in his replication, ought to

FEBRUARY, 1805.
have traversed the plea, and tendered gn issue thereupon, and ought not to have replied the said special
matter, and concluded with a verification. 3d. Because the said replication is informal and insufficient,
&c.
Upon this demurrer the court below adjudged the
issue in law for the plaintiff.
Upon the issue in fact, the jury found a verdict also
for the plaintiff; and on the trial four bills of exception
were taken by the defendant. The 1st was to the refusal of the court to instruct the jury, that the plaintiff
ought to produce in evidence his letters testamentry,
to bnable him to maintain the issue on his part.
The 2d bill ofexceptions stated, " that the defendant
produced testinony to the following facts : viz. that
A. and W. Ramsay, on the 13th of August, 1799,
when, the note in the declaration mentioned became
due, were indebted to him on their own account in a
large sum of afoney' to wit, in the sum of 8,000 dollars, and continued indebted to him always thereafter,
to that or agreater amount, until they became bankrupt,
in November, 1801. That they had taken the said
note for the use and benefit of John Codman, and not
for their own, and were authorised, as his agents, to
receive payment of the said note for his use, from the
day of May, 1800. That
date thereof, until the
the said. John Codman urged paymcnt to be made; and
during this-period of time, sundry payments in money
-were made to the said A. and W. Ramsay, by the defehidant, who, at the time of .making such payments,
did not mention any definite purpose or use for which
they were made. That the said Andrew and William
Ranmsav, during the period aforesaid, viz. from the
13th August, 1799, to the time of their bankruptcy,
had authority to receive no other debt from the said
William Wilson, except the debt due on the note aforesaid, and on another note for about the same sum, due
for the use of said John Codrran. And the defendant
moved the court to direct the jury, .that if they shall be
of opinion, that at the times respectively when William
Wilson, the defendant, made payments in money to

WILSON;
V.
CODMA C~'B
Exxcu rQr.
.w-y-%.1

196

SUPREME COURT U. S.

WILsof
Andrew and William Ramsay, of sundry sums, after
V. ,the
note became due upon which this action is brought,

,CoPM4ANS
EXECUT9oR.

y

they, the said A. and W. Ramsay, were indebted to him
on their own account, always after the said note becamc
due, to an amount exceeding 8,000 dollars, and were
not authorised, during the whole of the time, from the
13th August, 1799, till their bankruptcy, to receive
any other debt due from W. Wilson, the defendant,
for the use of any other person, except the debt due on
the note, which is the ground of this action, and another
note for about the same sum, which they held as the
agents of John Codman, and in'trust for his use; in
such case, those payments of monies may be applied
to the discharge of those two notes; unless the jury
shall be satisfied by testimony, that the said defendant
did make those payments, or any of them, for some
other purpose or purposes, respectively.
" The plaintiff had offered to prove, by the testimony
of Andrew Ramsay, that the payments or advances of
money to him and William Ramsay, charged in the
account offered by the defendant, William Wilson, in
the words and figures fbllowing," [Here was inserted
an account current made out by the defendant against
A. and W. Ramsay, containing, among others, sundry
debits and credits of cash, subsequent to the time
when the notes became payable, and before the bankruptcy of the Ramsays; by which it appeared, that
they had paid to -the defendant, during that time, more
cash than he had paid to them, without specific appropriation ; but the balance of the whole account, (which
commences in April, 1797, and continues to October
15, 1801) was against the Ramsays to about the sum
of 10,000 dollars.] " were not made on account of
the notes due to John Codman or either of them, and
that they were not received by the said A. and W.
Ramsay, on account of the said notes, or either of
them; and had also offered in evidence two letters from
the defendant, admitted to be in his band-writing, in
the words and figures following," [Here were inserted
two letters from the defendant to John Codman, the
first dated 21st January, 1800, saying, that he had paid
a small part of the notes to A. and W. Ramsay, and
would gladly settle the remainder, if it was in his

FEBRUARY, 1805.

197

power; the'second is dated 25th February, 1800, offer- WLsQ
V.
ing to pay the notes in real estate, or to give a mort- CoDMA 's
gage.] " whereupon the court refused to give the Execuou.
instruction at prayed;" to which refusal the defendant
excepted.
The -3d bill of exceptions was to the opinion of the
court, that it was necessary for the plaintiff to prove
the assignment of the note, but that it was not necessary for him to prove that the same was madefor valhm
received, by the said A. and W. Ramsay, from the
said John Codman.
The 4th bill of exceptions was to the admission of
the note and indorsement in evidence to. the jury, the
indorsement being in these words: " We assign this
note to John Codman, without recourse," and signed
by A. and W. Ramsay, the payees of the note; inasmuch as ihe indorsement varied from that set forth in
the declarati on; the former being "without recourse,'
and the latter "for value received."
B. f. Lee, for plaiitiff in error, made the following
points :
1st. That the defendant below was entitled to ofyer Qf
the letters testamentary, at the time he demanded it.
2d. That the plaintiff was bound to produce them on
the trial, upon the issue of nil debet.
3d. That the plaintiff was bound to prove the assignment to have been madefor value received, according to
the averment in the declaration.
4th. That the defendant below had a right, at any time,
to apply the payments of money made to A. and W.
Ramsay, to the account of the notes in questidn ; the
Rasays being, at that time, personally his debtors,
and having no right to demand of him money upon any
other account.
5th. That the replication to the second plea was bad
upon special demurrer.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILsON

V.
CODMA'S
EXECUTOR.

1st. The executor was bound to produce his letters
testamentary, and the defendant was entitled to oyer at
any time.
In Virginia, if the plaintiffdies before office-judgment,
the suit abates, and the executor must proceed de novo.
If the plaintiff dies after judgment, the executor must
take out a scirefacias, 'n which he must make a pro/ert
of his letters testamentary. . When the scirefaciasissues,
the cause goes to the rules, and the defendant hits a
month.'to plead. In the present case, the change of' parties was made in court, and the defendant had not yet
appeared ; he had, therefore, time till the next term* to
appear and plead, and had then a right to demand oyer.
6 Mod. 134, Adams v. Savage. Idem, 142, Smith v. liarmnan. Bythe act of congress, vol 1,p. 71, § 31, a scire
facias is to issue in case of the death of a part.4 before
judgment. The law of Virginia, Revised Cpde, p. 117,
§ 20, is nearly the same.
The apt of congress does not do away the necessity of
an executor's showing his'letters testamentary, nor'deprive the defendant of his right of oyer.
PATERSON, J. Under the act of congress, do not the
proceedings go on of old ? Are there to be any proceedings de novo P
E. Z. Lee. There is no doubt that the executor must
show his letters testamentary on admission to prosecute,
and the defendant.has a right to demand oyer at some
time.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. The question is; whether, under
the act of congress, a scirefaciasis necessary.

WASHINGTON, J. There is another question, whether
the defendant did not crave oyer in due time.
B. Y. Lee. The plaintiff ought to produce his letters
testamentary at the time he is admitted, or when oyer -is
prayed, or at the trial, to support his title.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

199

MARSHALL, Ch. J. No doubt the defendant was entitled to oyer, but the question is, has he demanded it m
proper time?

E. 7. Lee. 3d. The plaintiff ought to have proved
that thenote was assigned for value received. The assignment on the note is expressed to be "1without recourse." There was, therefore, a variance between the
assignment on the note, and that set forth in the declaration. The court, thereforg, ought either to have prevented the assignment from being produced in evidence,
or have compelled the plaintiff to prove it was really for
value received. By thus admitting the assignment to go
in evidence, they have prevented the defendant from his
right to offset his payments to A. and W. Ramsay before
the assignment.
If there be a variance between the evidence and the
declaration, it is fatal, how trivial soever it may be. If
the plaintiff undertakes to recite an instrument, although
he is not bound so to do, and misrecites it, he must fail.
Thus, in trover for a debenture, the plaintiff must prove
the number of the debenture as laid in the declaration,
and the exact sum to a farthing, or he will be notisuited.
But he need not set out the number, (any more than the
date of a bond for which trover is brougfit) lor being out
of possession, he may not know the number, and if he
should mistake, it would be a failure of his suit. Buller
N. P. 37. So in the case of Bristow v. Wright, Doug-.
,665, it was held, that in alt action against the sheriff for
taking goods without leaving a year's rent, the declarition
need not state all the particulars of the demise; but if it
does, and they are not proved as stated, there shall be a
nonsuit.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. You consider the declaration as
setting forth'the indorsement in hoc verba.
B. _7. Lee. I do.
MARSHALL, Ch.'J. The only question upon this point
is, whether the plaintiff has undertaken to set forth the indorsement in hcrc verbai for if so, and there is a variance,
there is no doubt it would be fatal.

WILSoN
V.
ExXcuToa.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
'WILsoN
. N'
C
EX, OxA's

E. _7. Lee. 4th. The defendant below had a right to
apply all the cash paid by him to A. and W. Ramsay, to
the discharge of the notes. They had no right to say it
was a gift or a loan, and they had no other right to demand money of him, than for those notes. If the appropriation was not made at the time of the payment, yet
it could be applied only to the single debt due.
5th. As to the demurrer. 1st. The declaration states
the assignment to befor value received.. The replication,
instead of fortifying the declaration, states, that it was not
for value received, which, being repugnant, is a departure
in pleading. Thus, if the plea be conditions performed,
and the rejoinder shows matter in excuse fornotperforming, it is a departure. 4 Bac'. Ab. 123. Departure its
Pleading,L. , Ifanote is given to me as agent for ano- .
ther, it is not given to me for value received. 2d. There
is no trverse, denial, or confession of the .matter of the
plea. 4 Bac. Ab. H. 70.
C. Lee, on the same side.' If the plaintiff is not the
true executor, a judgment in this suit would be no bar to
an action by the rightful executor. Hence it is necessary
that he should produce his letters testamentary. It does
not appear that he ever produced them in the court below 'at any time. He ought to have been compelled to
produce them at the trial, on the issue of nildebet, to support hIs tide. The plea of nil debet put the plaintiff on
the proof of every thing necessary to entitle him to recover. It has been considered as law in Virginia, that
on that plea the defendant may give in evidence the statute of limitations, which he could not do on non assum/sit ; because the latter plea is in the past tense, and the
statute does not prove that he never promised. ' But the
plea of nil debet is in the present tense, that he does not
now owe, and, therefore, if the debt is barred by the
statute, the plea is well supported. If an executor bring
an action of assumpsit, the defendant pleads non assumzpsit, in manner and form as the plaittiff has declared ; that
is, he did not assume to pay to the testator in his lifetime. The plaintiff, in. such case, is only bound to prove
that the defendant promised to pay the testator, nd his
own title as executor does not come in question. But if
an executor bring an action of debt, and the defendant

FEBRUARY, -ISO.

201

pleads nil debet, he -says that he owes nothing to the pre-

Wtisos

V.
sent plaintiff, who sues as executor; and if the plaintiff
be not the true executori the plea is supported; the de- Exxcuro,

fendani, in truth, owes him nothing. Hence arises the difference between the necessity of producing letters testamentary in evidence on the trial in actions of assumpit,
and iuL those of debt on si'ple contract.
Simms, contra. In this case there was an officejudgment against Wilson and his appearance-bitil. The
bail came in and set aside the office-judgment, by pleading for his principal (as he had a right to do undeu the
act of assembly of Virginia) in the life-time of John
Codman, and the issue was made up. Afterwards
John Codman died. and Stephen Codman, his executor,
appeared, and had leave .to prosecute the action.
Wediffer from the opposite counsel as to the con,
struction of-the act of congress. They seem to think
that the pleadings must be de novo.
But it is .in the discretion of the court what ples to
admit after the issue had been made up.
It is said Wilson was not in court. But it was his
own fault to suffer judgment to go against him. No
man can take advantage of his own neglect. It was a
matter of discretion with the court to admit the principal to appear and plead after the issue had. been made
up by the bail. It is to be presumed, that the executor
produced his letters testamentary, and that the court
was satisfied when they admitted him to prosecute as
plaintiff. If the defendant did not then pray oyer, it
was his own neglect. He can only demand oyer at the
term when the letters were produced, 5 Co. 74, (b.)
Wymark's case. Bat letters testamentary need not remain in court even during the whole of that term, 2
Salk. 497, Roberts v. Arthur.

As to the demurrer, two causes are assighed. First,
that the replication is a departure ; and secbnd, that it
does not traverse the matter of the plea.
Vol. II.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WZL.o1
V. ,
ZXFCUToS,

k

1st.. Unquestionably, if it is a departure, it is
bad. Butifitis the only fortification of the declaration
against the plea, it must be good. Co. Lyt. 304, (a.)
The replication is not repugnant to, nor inconsistent
with, the declaration. Iris the same in substance with
that in the case of Winch v. Keely, 1 T. R. 619, which
,was adjudged good on demurrer.
2d. It is said, that the replication ought to have traversed the matter of the plea.
What part could the plaintiff have traversed ? The
bankruptcy is, impliedly admitted in the replication.
WASrtINGTOWJ, J. Part of the objection is, that the
replication does not confess t~le matter of the plea.

Simms. That is not set down as a cause of demurrer,
and it is but matter of form. But it is no cause for demurrer even if it had been specially shown. In a plea
of the statute of limitations, the defendant does not confess that he ever promised at all. So in a replication
to such a plea, that the plaintiff was out of the country,
he does confess that the five years have elapsed. So in
:pleading a release, it is not necessary to admit the execution of the bond, &c.
No authorities can be produced in support of such
an objection.
As topayments of money, it appears from the account
itself, that Wilson, after the notes became due, received
more cash from A. and W. Ramsay than they received
from him; and it is evident , that the cash transactions
were mere matters of mutual accommodation, by loans
of small sumts for short periods of time.
As, to the first bill of exceptions, it is said, that the

plaintiff ought to have produced his letters testamentary
on the trial'; and that a judgment, in this suit, would
not be a"bar to an action by the rightful executor.
This we deny. In a suit brought by the name of
John, it is not necessary on the trial of the general issue

FEBRUARY, 1805.

203

to prove that the plaintiff was baptized by .that name. WILsoii
So if the plaintiff suie, as executor, when he is bsly a4- C.
ministrator, and no advantage taken by-plea in abate- Exr r
mert, it is not necessary, on the trial, to produce letters
testamentary.
The 3d and 4th bills of exception' raise two 9ues.
tions.

1. Whether the assignment ought to hav
proved, on the trial, to be for value received.

been

2. Whether the assignment on -the note varies from
that stated in the declaration.
It is said, that the probataand the allegata ihust precisely agree. This is not the -law. -Itis sufficient i
they agree in substance. In an action of'assault and
battery, the declaration, alleging it to be done 'Vith
sticks, staves and swords, is sufficiently supported by
evidence that the defendant pulled the plaintiffs nose.
Sc if ihe declaration allege, that goods were sold and
delivered at the request of the defendant, it is sufficient
to prove that" the defendant reluctantly received them
at the solicitation of the plaintiff. It is only necessary
to prove the material averments to be substantially
true.
The-substance, in the present case, is -the .note an
the assignment. The manner is totally -immaterial. No
form of assignment is prescribed by'the act of assembly ; and it is notnecessary, under the act, to state the
precise words of the assignment. If the assignment
had been in consideration of a horse received, it would
have been sufficient to have stated, geinerally, that it was
for value received. The 'iordswithout rec6urse do not
imply without value, nor do they alter the effect of the
assignment as it regards the defendant. The declaration does not pritend to set forth the assignment in hcrc
-verba ; and, therefore, the case from -Doug. 665.
does not apply, 2 Salk. 658, Biolman v..Borough. Douge
193, the King v. May.

SUPREME COURT U. S-

204

WXLs0
D.'

MARHAUL, Ch. J. Does not your defence rely on
there being no value received ?

I contend not.

hSimms.

I shall presently take tho

distinttion.
WASHINGTON,

J,The departure is alleged upon

that ground.
Simms. A moral obligation on the part of A. and W.
Ramsay is a §ufficient cobsideration for the assignment.
They were bound in honesty and good faith to assign,
and that is sufficient to support the allegation of value
received.
The maker of the note has no right t6 inquire into
the consideration which passed between the assignor
and assignee.
If the note had not been, from the first, held in trust
for Codman, the defendant mighi have ofset all his
claims against the Ramsays, which were due before no.
tice of the assignment.
. No offset against the trustee can he set up against
cestui que trust. The authorities cited in Wincl and
Keely can be produced if the court should requir.it.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. There is no necessity to pro.
duce authorities. There can be no question on that
point. If the agent, appointed to collect a debt, is in.
debted to the debtor, the latter cannot offset, against the
debt due from him to the principal, claims against the
agent. It cannot be contested. No man ever thought,
that a person who employs an agent to collect his debts,
by this agrees to take on his hands the debts owing by
his agent to his debtors, instead of looking to the origi.
iial debtors themselves.

C. Lee, in reply.

let%As to. the letters testamentary, -

FEBRUARY, 180.

205

The act of Congress does not take away the necessity of giving notice to the other party. It does not esa
sentially alter the law'on that subject. By that raiv
scire faciai must have issued and would have been returnable to the next term. One' of the clauses of each
act is in the same words. The act of congress is equally
applicable to the death of plaintiffs and defendants. A
scire facias must issue in both cases. And if it had
issued, the defendant Would have beeii in time.
2d. Th plaintiff ought to have produced his letters
testamentary at the trial, to support his title, on the
issue of nil debet.
This has been spoken to before.
3d. As to the demurrer.
It is an answer to the case of Winch v. Keely, I T. R.
619, that in our case the demurrer is speciali in the
other it was general. It will also appear, that in that
case, the facts of the pleas were expressly admitted in
the replication. The demurrer there was for the purpose of bringing into consideration an important question of law.
The 1st cause of demurrer assigned is, that the replication is a departure. It.is only necessary to know
what the declaration is.
The expression, for value riceived, means value received by the-defendant of the Ramsays, and by them
of the plaintiff. The declaration states it to be Ramsay's debt, the replication alleges it to be Codman's

debt.

4th. The variance between the declaration and the
note offered in evidence, is material. If they had produced a note assigned for value received, the plea of
bankruptcy of the Ramsays would have been good. If
they had proved their declaration, they would have defeated their action. It is admitted, however, that it
would be a question of some doubt, whether the variance would be absolutely fatal if the action were on a

)1ILsoN
CODA.'S

gCroM

.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSO

V,
SXECUTOR.

,parol agreement, upon the authority of the note at the

end of the case of Bristow v. Wright, Doug. 669, (3d
edition) which confines this strictness of pleading to
records and written contracts. 'But the present action
is upon a written contract, and, therefore, according to
all the authorities, a inisrecital is fatal.
sth; As to the bill of exceptions respecting the testimony, it is only necessary to read the prayer of the
defendant to the court, (without intermixing the testimony offered by the plintiff, which only confuses the
question) to show the impropriety of the' court's decision.
The amount of the prayer is, that the paym ents ought
to be presumed to be made on the notes, Unless it is
proved that they were made for some other purpose,
or on some other account; it having been proved that
the Ramsays 'bad no right to demand money, from the
defendant, except on account of those notes.
NAarch 6.
MARSHALL,

,Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the

court.
The first 'question whicl) presents itself in this case is,
was the defendant entitled to oyer of the letters testamentary at the term succeeding that at which the executor
was admitted a plaintiff in the cause?
It is contended, on the part of the defendant, that on
the stiggestion of the death of either pfaintiff or &defendant, a scire facias ought to issue, in order to brizig in his
representative ; or, if a scirefaciasshould not be required, yei, that the opposite party should have the same time
to plead and make a proper defence as if such process had
been actually sued. The words of the'act of congress do not seem to coun-

tenance thbi opinion. They contemplate the coming in of
the.executor as a voluntary act and give the scirefacia&
to bring him in, if it shall be necessary, and to enable the
court "to render such judgment against the estate of the

FEBRUARY, '1805.
deceased party," "as if'the executor or administrator had Wztow
V.
voluntarily made himself a party to the suit." Froi& the CODnA's
language of the act this may be done instante-. The 'EXECUT0o.L
opinion, that it is to .be done on motion, and that the party t.yn
may immediately proceed to trial, derives'strength from
the provision, that the executor or administrator, so becoming a party, may have one continuance. This provision shows, that the legislature supposed the circumstance of making the executor a party to the suit, to be
no cause of delay. But as the executor might require
time to irform himself of the proper defence, one continuance was allowed him for that purpose. The same
reason not extending to the other party, the same indulgence is not extended to him.
There is, then, nothing in the act, nor is there aiy thing
in the nature of the provision, which should induce an
opinion, that any delay is to be occasioned where the executor makes himself a party, and is ready to go to trial.Unquestionably, he must show himself to be executor, unless the faet be admitted by the parties ; and the defendant may insist on the production of his letters testamentary, before he shall be permitted to prosecute ; but if the
orderfor his admission, as a party, be made, it is too Into
to contest the fact of his being an executor.
If the court has unguardedly permitted a person to prosecute who has iot given satisfactory evidence of his
right to do so, it possesses the means of preventing any
mischief from the inadvertence, and will undoubtedly employ those means.

The second point in the case"is the demurrer of the
defendant to the plaintiff's replication.
Two causes of demurrer are assigned. ist. That it
is a departure from the declaration. 2d. That the plea
ought to have been traversed, and an issue tendered
thereon.
On the first cause of demurrer, some difference has existed in the court, but the majority of .the judges concur
in the opinion, that the replication fortifies, and does not
depart from the declaration.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSoN
Cov. ,s
CX:2CTos.

k

The averment, that- the assignment was for value re-

ceived, is an immaterial averment. The assignee, without

value, can as well maintain his action as the assignee, on a
valuable consideration. It is, therefore, mere surplusage,
and does not require to be proved ; nor does it affect the
substantial part of the declaration. It is also the opinion
of a part of the court, that the duty created by the trust,
and which was discharged by .the assignment, may be
considered as constituting a valuable consideration to
support the averment, and prevent the replication from
being a departure from the declaration.
2d. The second cause of demurrer is clearly not main.
tanable. The matter of the replication does not deny,
but avoids the allegations of the plea, and, consequently,
the conclusion to the court is proper.
It has, indeed, been argued, that the replication is faul"
ty, because it does not confess the matter alleged in the
plea; but this is not assigned as a cause of demurrer,
and it is, therefore, npt noticed by the court.
The demurrer having been overruled, several exceptions were taken at the trial to the opinion of the court.
The first was to the admission of the note as evidence.
This was objected to, because the declaration averred the
note to be assigned for value received, and the assignment
contained no expression of a valuable consideration; but
was declared to be made "without recourse." As the
assignment is not set forth in hicc verba, this exception is
so clearly unmaintainable that it will require only to be
mentioned.
The 2d exception requires more consideration. It is,
that although the averment that the assignment was
made for value received was immaterial, yet the plaintiif,
having stated the fact in his declaration, is bound to prove
it. In support of this position, Bristow v. Wright, Doug.
665, has been quoted and relied on.
The strictness with which, in England, plaintiff is
bound to prove the averments of his declaration, al-

FEBRUARY, J8o5.

209

though they may be immnateriai, seems to have relaxed
from its original rigour.

WiLson
r.

CODXAN%)

Exzcuron,

The reasons stated by Lord Mansfield, in.the case re,
ported by Douglas, for adhering to the rule, do not ap,
ply in the Uhited States, where costs are not affected by
the length of the declaration#
Examining the subject with a view to the great principles of justiqe, anc( to those rules which are calculated for
the preservation-of right and the prevention of injury, z o
reason ia perceived for requiring the proof of a perfectly
immaterial averment, unless that averment be descriptiva
of a written instrument, which, by being untruly describ'
ed, may., by possibility, mislead. the opposite party. '
Where,-then, the averment i4 the declaration is of a
fact dehors the written contract, which fact is in itself immaterial, it is the opinion of the court that the party making.the averment, is-not bound to prove it.
In this case, the- averment, that the assignment was
made for value received, is the averment of a fact,
which is perfectly immaterial, and which forms no part
of the written assignment ; nor is itlaverred to be :
part of it. It is an extrinsic fact, showing how the
right of action was acluired, but which contributes
nothing towards giving that right of action. The
party making this useless averment ought not to be
bound to prove it.
No case which has-been cited at bar, comes up to
this.. The averments of the declaration, which the
plaintiff has been requireat to prove, are all descriptive
of records, or of written contracts ; not, of a fact, at
the same time extrinsic and immaterial. The court is,
therefore, unanimous in the opinion, that this exception
cannot b. inlaintained.
In the progress of the trial, the counsel for the defendant, in the court belbw, also required that court to
instruct the jury, that unless the plaintiff could show
that the Ramsays, who were his agents, had the powar
.
Vol. m.

