SUPREME COURT U. S.
.21farch 4.

tINoPXUK

V.

BELL.

The Court ordered the following opinion to be certified to the circuit court:
Upon the question, in this case referred to this court
from the circuit court: it is considered by this court,
that the said act of limitations is not a bar to the plaintiff's demand on the said note; and this court is of
opinion, that the length of time from the giving the
note to the commexic'ment of the war, in 1775, not
being sufficient to bar the demand on the said note,
according to the said act of assembly, the treaty of peace
between Great Britain and the United States of 1783,
does 'not admit of adding the time previous to the war,
to any time subsequent to the treaty, in order'to make
a bar: and is also of opinion, that the agent merely
for collecting debts, mentioned and described in the
said state of facts, is not to be considered as a factor
within the meaning of the said act of assembly, so as
to bring the case within the proviso of said act.,
By this the court is not to be understood as giving an"
opinion on the construction of the note, as to the time
of payment.

WILLIAM MALEY v. JARED SHAtTUCK.

MALEY~

V.
SuATTUC4.
'

-,--,

ON the 20th of August, 1804, Jared Shattuck exhibited his libel in the district Court of the United States,
a for the district of Pennsylvania, in the following form :*

)

The corn-

nander of
United States
ship of war,

if he seizes a
vessel on the

high seas,
.without pro.
bable cause is
liable to make

*

As.there are so few forms of admiralty proceedings in print, it

is hoped that a recital of a considerable part of the record in this
case, will be acceptable to the profession; particularly as it is not
: libel in rem, bt for restituton in -value; fbi not bringing in the
vessel and cargo for adjudication.

" FBRUARY, 1806.

459

'r'o the honourable Richard Peters, Esq. judge of the , ,Lr,
V.
district court of the United Stateb, in and for the district of Pennsylvania.
restitution in

The libel of Jared Shattuck, merchant, most respect- value, with

dimages and
costs, even
although the
yessel is taken
the
majesty,
That your lihbellant, being a subject of his

fully sheweth,

king of Denmark, sometime in or about the begirqning out or his
by
of the month of May, in the year of our Lord 1800, at possession
asupez~ior
St. Thomas, one of his said majesty's 'West-India

rcer; 'and

islands, loaded a certain schooner or vessel called the Mer- the ow,nr is
to
not bnund
to the
cator, being an unarmed merchantman, fitted out at St. resort

Thomas aforesaid, for trade only, and being then and recapton, but
there bonafide the property of your libellant, with a cargo may abandan,
of merchandise, consisting of provisions, wines, and and hold the
tor liablecap.for
dry goods, for the sole and bonafide account of your li-original
bellant, said cargo amounting to 13,920 dollars, or there- thewhole loss.
'
A fbreign
abouts, on a voyahse to _acmel and Paort-Republican, in
the island of St. Dmingo, which he consigned to "Tous- sentence of
saint Lucas, also a Danish subject, then and there mas- condemnatlon
oclu.
ter of the said schooner Mercator, who was instructed s gnot

by your libellant to dispose of the said cargo at 7acmel
or Port-Republican aforesaid, to the best advantage, for
account of your libellant, invest the proceeds" in coffee
of good quality, and return therewith to the said island

sive evidence,
that the legal
title to the
property as

of St. Thomas. And your libellant further saith, that on ject of a neuor about the 6th day of the said-month of May, the said tral nation.
'Toussaint Lucas sailed in' the said schoont-r from the said
island of St. Thomas, upon the said voyage for 7acmel
and Port-Republican,having on board the said cargo, and
also a private adventure belonging tb the said Toussaint
Lucas, together with all such necessary papers and documents, for ascertaining the property and neutrality of the
said vessel and her cargo, as are' usually carried by vessels bplonging to Danish subjects; and proceedid on his
said voyage until on or about the 14th day 'of thd said
month of May, when, in -endeavouring to enter the
said port of 7acmel, the said schooner Kercator was met
with by a certain' schooner, called the* Experiment, a
,public armed 'vessel belonging to the government of thq
United States of America, an4 commanded by William
Maley, a lieutenant in the navy of the said United States,
who imlawfully, and in violation of th law, of nations,
took possession of the'said schooner Mercator, and put

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MALRY

V
SHATTUCK.

on board of her a prize-master, and four seamen, who
carried the said schooner Mercator, and her cargo, to
places unknown to your libellant. And so it is, mIiy it
please your honour, that nvither the said William MLaley,
nor any person or persons avting under him, have brought
the said schooner Mercator, or her cargo, to legal adjudication in any court of the United 6tates, having admiralty jurisdiction..
To the end, therefore, that complete justice may be
done to your libellant in tht; premises, may it please
your honour to direct a monition to issue out of this
honourable court, direct-d to said William Maley, Esq.
commanding him forthwith to proceed in dueform in this
h'onourable court, against the said schooner llercator,
andher cargo, in order to obtain a legal adjudication of
the same in due course of admiralty proceedings, or in
default thereof, to appear before your honour, at such
time andplace as to your honour shall seem fit, to answer
your libellant in the premises, and show cause why, by
the saidhonourable court's final sentence and decree, he
shall not be adjudged to make restitution in value, and
pay to your libellant the whole amount of his loss aforesaid, w;thfull damages and costs, and that such further
justice 'may be done to your libellant in the premises, as
to this honourable court shall ever seem neet; and your
libellant shall ever pray, &c.
e
PETER S. DuPONCEAU,

for libellant.

To this libel, Maley appeared,* and filed the protest
following:
'To the honourable Richard Peteis, Esq. judge of the
district court of the United States, in and for the district
of Pennsylvania.
Tie protest of William Maley, Esq. late commander
of the schooner Experiment, a public armed vessel of
the United States of America, appearing here in court,
to avoid all and all manner of contempt, contumacy and
- It does not appear that a monition issued. The appearanceof
Maley seems, by the record, to have been voluntary.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

461

default, under this his protest, against the libel filed by
Jared Shattuck, merchant.

This protestant, saving and reserving to himself all,
and all manner of exception to the manitest uncertainties,
imperfections and insufficiencies, in the said libel contained, and protesting that he ought not, in any wise, to
be required to appear thtreto, or to proceed against the
schooner Mercator, and her cargo, as is therein prayed,
nevei theless, for the reasons aforesaid, and as cause why
the said libel should be dismissed without further appearance or answer, avers, propounds and says,
That true it is, that the said protestant, while commanding the said schooner Experiment, a public armed
vessel of the United States of America, under a lawful commission and authority firom the government of the
said UnitedStates of Atherica, did on or about the 15th
day of May, 1800, meet on the high seas, and take possession of the said schooner called the Mercator, in the
said libel mentioned, and put on board an officer and four
seamen. But this protestant denies, that by so doing,
he acted unlawfully and in violation of the law of nations ; for he avers, propounds, and says, that since the
passing of the act or' the said United States of America,
entitled, "an act further to suspend the commercial intercourse between the United States and France, and the
dependencies thereofi" and before the said 15th day of
day of
May, 1800, that is to say, on the
in the year 1799, the said schooner, called the lercator,
being an American registered vessel, owned, hired and
employed by a person or persons resident within the said
United States, or by citizens, thereof, resident elsewhere,
sailed and departed from the port of Baltimore, within the
said United States, and at the time of her being met and
taken possession of by this protestant as aforesaid, and before her return within the said UnitedStates, was proceeding directly, or from some intermediate port or place, to
Yacnel, a port or place Nwthin the island of St. Domingo,
within the territory or dependencies of the French'republic. And this protestant further avers, propounds
and says, that at the time of his meeting and taking possession of the said schooner Mercator as aforesaid, she
was steering a direct course for the said port of Yacmnd,
and not for Port-au-Prince, whereas, the letter of in-'

DIALPY

S HA-V rC.

462
IAL.rZ

V.
A

SUPREME COURT V. S.

structions from the said Jared Shattuck, the libellant,
and all the other papers exhibited to this protestant, 'by
Toussaint Lucas, the inaster of the said schooner Mer-

catpr, or found on board thereofi falsely, fraud~lently,
and colourably, represented and declared, amon& other
things, that the said schooner was bound on a vo%age
from the island of St. Tlomas to Port-au-Prince, a place
then in the power and poss.ession of'tht British troops,
and n6t Within the territory or dependencies of the
French reppblic. And this protestant further avers, prop6unds and says, that at the time of his meeting and
taking possession of the said schooner Mercator as
aforesaid, the master thereof appeared to be a Frew/kinapz (although this protestant has since heard, but does ot
admit, that he is an Italian) and the crew consisted chifly
of Portuguese and Italians, nor was there then, nor at
any time before or since, exhibited to this protestant,
any burgher' -briefor briefs, or other evidence wihatsoever, that the said master, or crew, or any part thereof,
had become burghers of the said island of St. Thomas,
or were otherwise natuialized subjects of the'king of
Denmark, without whikh this protestant avers, that the
said master and crew could not lawfully command and
navigate a Danish vessel, according to the lpws and
And this protestant further
usages of Denmark.
avers, propounds, and says, that the said Jared Shattuck, the libellant, alleging himself to be, the owner
of the said schooner Mercator and her cargo, and to
be a burgher of the island of St. Thomas, (neither of
which allegations is admitted by this protestant) was
born in the state of Connecticut, one of the United
States iforesaid, nor did it satisfactorily apjear to
this protestant, (considering the many other proofs
and causes of suspicion to the contrary) at the time of
his meeting and taking possession of the said schooner
Mercator, as aforesaid, nor has it so appeared at any
time since, that the said Jared Shattuck, the libellant, had,
by any lawful act of expatriatiop, or otherwise, at any
time, become a subject or citizen of any other government or nation, and ceased to be a citizen of the said
United States, owing fidelity and allegiance thereunto ;
but admitting it to be true, that the said Jared Shattuck,
the libellant, was an inhabitant of the said island of St.
Thomas, this protestant did then, and does still, vrily
believe, that the said Jared Shattuck had repaired to the

FEBRUARY, 1806.

463

said island of St. Thomas, or remained there, for the
purpose of carrying on an illicit and clandestine conmerce with ports an i places within the territory and dependencies of the French republic, duriing the hostilities
which were then waged between the United States'and
the French republic, and-also between the king of Great
Britain and the said French republic. And this protestant further avers, propounds, and says, that believing,
from all the appearances, circumstances, and reasonable
and just causes of suspicion, herein before averred and.
propounded, touching the original American character
of the said schooner Mlercator, the voyage on which she
was actually proceeding, the false destination declared
and represented in the said letter of instructions, and
other papers exhibited and found on board, the description of the master and crew, and the birth-place and original allegiance of the said Jared Shattuck, the libellant,
that the said ichooner :Mercator, was a registered vessel
of the said United States, voluntarily carried or suffered
to proceed to a French port or place as aforesaid, and
to be'employed as aforesaid, contrary to the intent, and
in defiance of the prohibitions of the said act of the coligress of the United States, entitled I"an act further to
suspend the commercial intercourse between the United
States and France, and the dependencies thereof." This
proiestant, in obedience to the said act of congress; and
to his official instructions, took possession of the said
schooner ai aforesaid, with-a view to such further examination and proceedings as the law of nations, and the
laws of the United States, should warrant, justify, and
require. But this protestant avers that such possession
was taken lawfully, upon the just and reasonable causes,
motives, and designs, -aforesaid, and with the utmost
care, caution, and solicitude, that the said schooner Mercator and her cargo, should thereby suffer no injury, damage, br spoliation; and that the real national character,
and ihe real commercial objects of the said schooner
Mercator,- of her pretended owner, and of the said master and crew, while prosecuting.her said voyage, should
be more fully examined, and satisfactorily asceriained,
without any unnecessary detention or delay, this protestant, at the time of placing on board of the said
schooner Mercator, an officer and four seamen, as aforesaid, did not remove, nor take therefrom, the said -master and crew of the said schooner Mercator, or any of

MALz-

.HAT.ucK

464

SUPREME COURT U. S.

them, nor remove, take away, cancel, or destroy, any

MALEY

6f the papers and documents
SHA

ucKand

said schooner Mercator,
ofide soonr
ro

and her cargo, but ordered the, officer, so put on board
of the said schooner, -having on board her said master
and crew, and all the documents and papers of the said
schooner add cargo, to make the best of his way to Cape
Francois, there to deliver all his letters to Silas Talbot,
Esq. then commodore and commander of the public
vessels of the said United States, upon that station, and
to wait the orders of the said Silas Talbot, with express
insiructiofis, also; to p'ay particular attention to every
thing belonging to the said schooner Mercator, and her
cargo, seeing that nothing should go to waste, and to
deliver the'saidschooner to the said master thereof, if the
said Silas Talbot, commodore and commander as aforesaid, should clear her. ,And this respondent further
avers, propounds, and says, that in a short time, not
exceeding the spice of pix. hours, or thereabouts, afler
the said schooner Mercator had parted from the said
schooner Experiment, destined for 'Cape Francois as
aforesaid, under the orders aforesaid, the said schooner
Metcatoi was captured on the high seas, as prize, by a
British private armed vessel of war, called the General
Simcoe, commanded by Joseph Duval, who thereupon
forcibly took the said schooner ,Mercator and her cargo,
from and out-of the.possession, care, custody and controul,
as wel1 of the said master-and crew, of the said schooner
Mercator, as of the said officer and men who had been
put on board of her, as aforesaid, by this protestant, and
who were, thereupon, taken out of and removed from
the said schooner Mercator, into, and on board of the
said British privateer, and he said schooner Mercator and
her cargo, sent to the island of Jamaica, under the charge
of a prize master and men beloiging to the said British
privateer, without the assent, connivance, assistance,
negligence, or fault, whatsoever, of this protestaut. or
of the officer and men whoin he had put on board of the
said-schooner Mercator, as aforesaid, for the causes and
with the int6ntions, aforesaid. And this protestant further avers, propounts, and says, that the said schooner
Mercator and cargo, being so, as aforesaid, captur. d on
the high seas, as prize, and sent to the said island of Jamaica, by the said British privateer, a libel, in due form
of law was exhibited and filed by the said taptors, inthe
court of vice-admiralty, lawfully established in the said

FEBRUARY, 1806.
island of Jamaica, (being a court of competent jurisdic-

tion in all matters of prize) alleging, and' charging, that

the said schooner Mercator and cargo, were the property
of France, or of the king of Spain, or of some person or
persons being subjects of France, or of the king of Spain,
or inhabiting within some of the territories of France, or
of the king of Spain, and were good and lawful prize, inasmuch as hostility and war then notoriously subsisted
between the king of Great Britain, on the one part, and
the said French republic and the king of Spain, on the
other part; and thereupon the said captors, in their said
libel, prayed that the said schooner Mercator and her
cargo, mightbe adjudged lawful prize, and be confiscated
and condemned. And this prntestant further avrs,
prbpounds, and says, that, notwithstanding the denial
of the said Jared Shattuck. in his said libel contained,
he, the said Jared Shattuck, *received speedy and full
notice, that the said schooner Mercator, and her cargo,
were captured as prize, and sent into the said island of
Jamaica, as aforesaid, and there prosecuted by the said
captors as prize, in manner aforesaid ; and, thereupon, a
claim was exhibited, and a defence made, by and fbr
the said Jared Shattuck, the alleged owner of the said
schooner Mercator and her cargo. And upon hearing
of the parties, bV their respective advocates, and upon
examining all the ship's papers and documents, together
with other evidence and proofs in the cause, the judge
of the said court of vice-admiralty, was pleased to adjudge and decree, that the said sthooner Mercator, and
her general cargo, were good and lawful prize, and did
therefore adjudge, order, and decree, that the same be)
condemned and cbnfiscated to the use of the said captors,
&c. From which sentence, the said Jared Shattuck, the
libellant, prayed leave to appeal, which was granted.
'But this protestant avers, that this appeal has not been
duly prosecuted by the said Jared Shattuck, but has been
altogether waived and abandoned.
And this protestant further avers, &'. that at the
time of the capture of the said srhooner and caro, by
the British privateer, as afore-said, and at the time of
the libel and of the condemnation, and of the appeal;
as aforesaid, peace and amity notoriously subsisted between the United States of America, and the king of
Great Britain and the king of Denmark ; und also be3 0
Vol. 11

BIA.xx

V.

SUATTucr.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
JXALFT
V.
T

tween the said king of Great Britain and the said king
of Denmark, and their respective citizens and subje ts :
and, thcrefore, this protestant avers, that if the allegations contained ih the libel of the said Jared Shattuck,
had been true, sentence of condemnation and confiscation, as prize, could not, and would not, have been pronounced, as aforesaid, against the said schooner Mercator
and her cargo, by the said court of vice-admiralty,
having competent jurisdiction upon all matters of prize,
as aforesaid, and therein proceeding according to the law
of nations and the faith of treaties.
Wherefore, this protestant prays that the said libel
may be dismissed with costs, &c.
A. J.

DALLAS,

for the protestant.

The replication 'of Shattuck, was as follows :
To the honourable Richard Peters, Esq. judge of the
district court of the United States, in and for the district
of Pennsylvania.
In the case of the schooner Mercatori and her cargo,
Toussaint Lucas, master.
The replication of Jared Shattuck, late owner of the
said schooner Mercator, and her cargo, to the protest of
William Maley, Esq. late commander of the public
armed schooner of the United States Experiment.
This replicant, not confessing or acknowledging any of
the facts, matters, and things, by the said William Maley, in and by his said prdtest set forth, propounded arid alleged, and also saving and reserving to himself all, and all
rr inner of exception to the manifold uncertaities and insufficiencies in the said protest contained, amd to the informality thereof, and protesting on his part, that the
said Wihiam Maley ought to have appeared absolutely,
and not under protest, and made direct answer, upon oath
or affirmation, to the charges in this replicant's libel contained, or to so much thereof as he has been advised to
be material for him to reply unto: Doth aver, alle C,
propound and say, that this replicant was born in tgo

FEBRUARY, 1806.
state of Connecticlit, in the year 1774, and when he was
between fifteen and sixteen years of age, viz. about the
end of 1789 or beginningof 1790, the United States be-

idg then at peace with;all the world, he migrated to the
island of St. Thomas, one of the dominions of the king
of Denmark and Norway, with a view to~etde and establish his permanent residence in that island. That he
served his apprenticeship there, with a mercantile house,
for about six years, and from his first arrival, has constantly and permanently resided, and 'now continues to
reside 1there. That on the 10th of April, 1797, the
United States-being still at peace with all the world, he
became a naturalized Danish subject, and burgher 9f the
said island, and shortly afterwards, intermarried with
at: inhabitant of that place, by whom he has several children, all living in that island. That he did acquire, and
now holds real estate there, and is there permanently settiled and established, and carries on the trade, and business of a merchant.
The replication then goes on to deny, that he went or
remained there for the purpose of illicit trade. It avers,
that during the war between France and Great Britain,
which terminated by the treaty of Amiens, he was largely concerned in trade, at and from St. Thomas to Ibreigu
ports, and had a number of vessels navigating under the
Danish flag in the West-India seas. I'hat several of
his vessels were taken, as well by British as French
cruisers, carried into their respective islands, and there
acquitted, and his neutral character, and that of his property, was acknowledged by the tribunals of both nations.
That in May, 1800, he loaded the Mercator, as mentioned in his libel, and sent her on a voyage to St. Domingo, consigned to the said Toussaint Lucas, who was
also a bonaftde subject. That the original destination of
the vessel was for Port-au-Prince, alias Port Republican, a place then in the power, and under the dominion
of the negro general Toussaint, not of the British troops,
as stated in -Maley's protest. That at that time commerce
was lawfully carried on between the United States and
ports of St. Domingo, which were in the power of gene•ral foussaint. 'That on the 3d of May, 1800, he gave

M3A.zt

.

S
o

t

468

MALEY
V.
SHATI VCK.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

written instrulctions to Lucas, to proceed with his vessel
to Port-au-Prince, but as she was ready to sad, he was

informed that the forces of general Toussaint had taken
Jacmel from general Rigaud, who held for the .French
republic. That Jacmel isa port of the island of St. Domingo, which lies between the island of St. Thomas and
Port-au-Prince, and is in the way between the former
and the latter. That the distance from Ja.-mel to Portau-Prince, is by land only between thirty and forty miles,
but by sea upwards of one hundred leagues. That conceiving it to be advantageous to try the market at Jacmel,
before proceeding to Port-au-Prince, he gave verbal
directions to Lucas for that purpose.
It denies that any thing false or colourable was intended; and that any of th Mercator's p'apers were false or
colourable, and that he gave any orders to Lucas to deny
or conceal his intention of going into Jacmel.
it admits, that after the passage of the act of congress,
"further to suspcnd," &c. and before the 15th of May,
1800, the Mercator was an American iegistered vessel,
owned by a citizen of the Unit-d States, -and sailed from
Baltimore, but denies, that when taken by Mlalev, she
was navigating contrary to the laws of the United States.
It avers, that on the 26th of November, 1799, he
purchased her bona fide at St. Thomas, for the sum of
8,500 dollars, which he had actually paid and took a bill
of sale, which was on board at the time of her capture.
That from the day of purchase until her capture, he was
bonefide the sole owner, and that no other person had any
interest in her or her cargo. That almost the whole ship.
ping of the island of St. Thomas, consists of vessels btult
in the United States and in the island of Bermuda, and
brought to the former island for sale.
That at the time of her capture, the Mercator was navigated as a bona fide Danish vessel, and had on board
every paperand document which thelaw required to prove
her neutrality ; and especially that she had, 1st. The
king's passport, in the usual form. 2d. The certificate
of measurement. 3d. Her muster-roll, or officiad list
of her crew. 4th. The bill of sale. 5th. The burgher's

FEBRUARY, 1806.

469

MALaY
brief of-her captain, Toussaint Lucas. 6th. Her clearance. 7ih. The invoice and bill of lading of her cargo SUTTc.
duly attested,,as tothe ownership and neutrality thereof.
8th. The captain's ins'tructions or sailing orders ; and
9th. A certificate, upon oath, of several respectable
merchants of the island, attesting the fact of Shattuck's

citizenship and residence in the island. That the crew
consisved of eleven persons, viz. the master, the mate,
seven seamen, the cook and a boy, who were all by birth
Italian or Portuguese. That the master was a native of
Leghorn, in Tustany, was a "Daniih subject, and had
resided seven years in St. Thomas. That very few
Danish seamen are to be had in the Danish islands ; and
that, ext ept the officers of government, there are very few
Danes in the islands of St. Thomas and St. Croix, the
inhabitants being chiefly native English and Americans,
with some French and other foreigners.
It denies, that by the laws of Denmark, a vessel cannot be lawfully navigated by others than Danish or naturalized Danish sailors, and avers, that the crew may
be subjects of any nation whatever, provided that in
time of war, not more than one-third thereof be native
subjects of one or other of the belligerent powers. It
denies that any of the crew of the Mercator were subjects oit any of the belligerent nations ; .ind that at the
time of her capture, there was any reasonable cause of
suspicion that she was an American vessel carrying on an
illicit trade. It submits to the court, whether Maley had
a right, by the law of nations, to arrest a vessel on the
high seas, sailing under the protection of his Danish
majesty's royal passport, under preternce of a violation
of a municipal law of the United States.
It suggests that Maley acted malafide, and offers to
prove that he was in the habit of violating the law of nations, and the instructions of his government, with respect to neutral vessels and property,7 arid that he was
dismissed from the service of the United States, principally nn that account.
With respect to the capture-by the British privateer, it
admits that the Mercator was so captured, while under
the protection of the United States, and their national

470

SUPREME COURI"TU. S.

'MALZY
flag, but does not admit that it was without the conVA.TTUC.
nivance or fault of Maley, or the officer Nqhom he put on

Sboard.

It admits the condemnation as prize, but avers
that it was the duty of the officer,and men %6
have resisted
the capture, and to have demanded of the court of viceadmiralty, at Jamaica, restitution of the vessel and
cargo, on the ground, that the same had been unlawfully,
and in violation of the respect due to the national vessels
of the United States,. and to the flag thereof, taken from
the possession, and from under the protection of the
commander of one- of the public vessels of war of the
United States.

It admits that Lucas filed a claim for the vessel and
cargo, before the vice-admiralty court at Jamaica, and
that they were condemned as prize, but Jdlges that
the sentence of condemnation w'as contrary to the evidence. It admits also, that an appeal was.entered, and
exhibits an exemplification of the proceediugs.
It
denies that Lucas was bound to exhibit a claim, or to
appeal from the condemnation, and that Shattuck was
bound to prosecute the appeal, but avers that the whole
should have been done by or in behalf of the United
States, to whom alone the vessel and cargo would legally have been restored, as having been taken from
their possession, and from under their protection.
It avers that Shattuck, as soon as he received notice
of the capture and condemnation, gave information
thereof to the governor-general of the Danish WestIndia islands, and to Richard Soderstrom, charged
with the consular functions for the king of Denmark,
in the United States, who communicated the Information, without loss of time, to the government of the
United States, and claimed reparation. That the government of the United States expressed a wish, that
the appeal should be prosecuted, in compliance with
which,,.Shattuck, without delay, forwarded the necessary papers to England; but when they arrived, he
was informed by his proctors that it was useless to prosecute the appeal, because the prize-money had been
distributed, and the prize agent had died insolvent.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

471

It denies that the vessel and cargo would not have
been condemned if they had been really and bonafide
neutral property, abld avers, that they really were such
as stated in his libel, and does not admit that he is prechided by the sentence of the court of vice-admiralty of
Jamaica, from showing the same.
It concludes, " that for aught that has been said and
alleged by the said William Malty, ithis protest aforesaid, this replicaot ought not to be precluded from
obtaining the bent fit of the prayer of his said libel; he
therefore prays, that the said William Maley may, by
the interlocutory decree of this honourable court, be
ordered to appear absolittely, and -Withoutprotest, be.
fore your honour, so that further justice may be done
by this honourable court in the premises, as to right
shall appertain."
(Signed)

JARED SHATTUCK.

Jared Shattuck being duly sworn according to law,
on his oath doth say, that all and singular the facts,
matters and things, by him in the foregoing replication
staed, as far as they relate to his own actsf and matters within his own knowledge, are true; and inasmuch as the same relate to the acts of others, he veril7
believes them to be true.
(Signed)

JAxED SHATTUCK.

Sworn before me the 26th of -May, 1804.
(Signed)

RiCHARD PETERS.

The rejoinder of Maley was as follows:
This rejoinant saving and reserving to himself all,
and all manner of exception to the manifold uncertainties and insufficiencies in the said replication contained,
and not confessing or acknowledging any of the facts,
matters and things by the said Jarcd Shattuck in and
by his-said replication set forth and alleged, but denying the same, saith, that the facts in this rejoinant's
protest set forth, are true ahid sufficient to excuse him

MA.LRY

SUATTVCC.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MALF
SH.TT1,CK.

from further appearance and answer to the libel of the
said Jared Sh.attuck.
(Signed)
A.

J.

DALLAS,

for

WILLIAM MALEY.

Whereupon it was adjudged, ordered and .decreed,
that the libel be dismissed-with costs.
From which decree Shattuck appealed to the circuit
court.
Upon the appeal, the circuit court* being of opinion that the appellant was entitled to'restitution, with
damages ,and costs, reversed the decree of the district
court, overruled and rejected the protest of Maley,
and ordered him to appear absolutely without protest,
before the district court; to whom the cause was remitted for further proceedings.
In the district court, upon the remission of the cause,
the following entry was made:
And now, to wit, this 9th day of August, 1605, the
said William Maley, by Alexander James Dallas, his
proctor aforesaid, having appeared absolutely as aforesaid, comes here into court, and for answer to the libel
of the said Jared Shattuck, propounds and says, that
the facts by xhis 'respondent in his said protest set forth
are true, and to the intent that justice may be done in
the premises, this respondent pra%s that the said Jared
Shattuck may be called upon to declare, on his solemn
oath, .to whom and when, and in what manner, he paid
for the said vessel called the Mercator, and whether
the original American owner hath any interest therein,
or in the restitution in value, by the said libel prayed
for; and whether any correspondence, and what, took
place between the said Jared Shattuck, and the captain
of the said vessel, or any other person, after she was
carried into Jamaica; and whether any correspondence,
* Holden by Judge Washington, in May, 1805,

FEBRUARY, 1806.

473

and what, took place between the said Jared Shattuck
and any persons, and whom, relative to the prosecution
of an appeal from the decree of condemnation in Jamaica ; and whether the said Jared Shattuck made any,
and what application, and when, to the American government, relative to the-capture of the saick vessel by
this respondent, as aforesaid, &c.
A. J.

DALLAS,

for respondent.

And thereupon the said Jared Shattuck, under all
legal protestations and reservations, for replication to
the answer.of William Maley, above-mentioned, saith,
that all and singular the facts, matters and things by
iim this replicant in his libel, and in his replication to
the answer under protest of the said William Maley,
filed in thi honourable court, are true. Without this,
that the facts by the said respondent, in his said answer
under protest set forthi are true.
He therefore humb*y prays, that. this honourable
court, by its final decree in this cause, will be pleased
to order, adjudge and decree, that the said defendant,
William Maley, make restitution to this replicant of
the value of the schooner Mercator, her rigging, tackle,
apparel, &c. and of her cargo, at the time of her cap.
ture by the United States armed schooner Experiment4
under the command of the said respondent; and that
the said respondent pay to the said replicant the
amountof the damages by him suffered, by reason and
in consequence of the capture and loss of the said
schooner Mercator, and her cargo; the said value and
damages to- be inquired of, estimated and reported, to
this honourable court by the clerk, taking to his assistance two merchants, in the usual form ; and that the
said respondent pay the costs of this suit, &c.
PETER

S. DuPONCEAU, proctor for libellant.

The clerk having returned an estimate of the value
and damages, amounting to..41,658 dollars and 67
cents, Maley filed the following exceptions to that report.
3P
VoL In.

MALET

V.t"
I.TUV

474

Mi LZ'
SIATTUCK.

SIJPREME COURT U. S.

1. That.the respondent is charged with the expense
of papers and outfits; advances to mariners, provisions
and stores for the voyage, and labour of sailors before
the shipping.
2. With the certificate of neutrality of, property,
,duties at St. Thomas, commission on shipping the
cargo, and insurance, without proofthai any insurance
was actually -paid.
3. With expenses at Jamaica, and for copies of the
proceedings in the court of admiralty, and of the appeal papers.

4. With expenses of Mr.-Soderstrom.
S. With too mubh interest.
6. That there was no proof of the actual price of
the schoonr other than the bill of sale on board.
7. That there was-no proof of the 'value of the cargo
other than the invoice on board.
In the district court, judgment was entered by consent in favour of the libellant, for the amount reported
by the clerk, saving all exceptions upon the appeal.
In the circuit court, the following answer of Shat.
tuck to the exceptions to the report of the clerk wag
filed.
To the first exception he answers that these expenditures of 6utfits, &c. made after the purchase, and after
the sailing of the vessel, increased the value thereof,
and are properly charged as a part of the said value,
The sam6 were allowed in the case of the Charming
Betsey-confirmed by a decree of this court (the circuit
court) and not appealed from.
2d; To the second'exception he answers:

FEBRUARY, 1806.

475

MAL.1. As to the instrance, that it is a regular mercantile
charge, the owner being considered as his own insurer. SUAvC.
That it is generally admitted in mercantile accounts.
That it is peculiarly'admissible in the case of an unjust
capture, like the present, however it might be in a case
of lawful capture, or capture with sufficient probable
cause.

2. The commission an shipping is also a regular
mercantile chat ge ; the said commission, the duties of
exportation paid at St. Thomas, and the certificatd of
neutrality, would have been charged on the goods, had
the vessel arrived at the port of her destination. The
present being, a case of unjust capture, the respondent
coficeives that the commissioners would have been
justified in allowing to him all the loss ofpossible profit,
and to have talken into view the piofit which he could
have made, had the vessel arrived at the port of her
destination, whereas they have only indemnified him
for his actual losses, and he conceives that he ought not
to be debarred from any part of his said indemnity.
3d. To the third and fourth exceptions he answers,
that the said'expenses are reasonable, and the like were
allowed and confirmed in the case of the Charming
Betsey.
4th. To the fifth he answers, that the interest is not
overcharged.
5th. To the sixth and seventh he answers, that the
evidence of the papers found on board, is sufficient in
law, in prize -causes, unless contradicted by other
evidence. That it is confirmed in this case by the oath
of the party, contained in the pleadins in this cause.And as to the ship, is again confirmed by the oath of
the. same party, taken a second Lim'e on special inttrrogatories of the appellant, William Maley,
The answer of Shattuck, upon oath, to the several
interrogatories contained in the answer of Maley to the
libel, stated, that he purchased'the schooner Mercator
at: St. Thomas, ofi the 26th of November, 1799, of one
John"Liddel, of Baltimore, for the sum of 8,50Q dol-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ALEY
SETA V.

lars, 'which, at the time, of p-.irchase, he actually and
bonafde paid to the said John Liddel, in Spanish mille 4
dollars. That the original owner has not at present,
nor has had at any time since the purchase thereof by
the respondent, directly or indirectly, by way of trust,
*cover, or otherwise, any'interest therein, nor in the
restitution in value, or damages prayed for in the libel.
That to the best of his recollection"'the said schooner
was taken by the British privateer ckn the 15th of May,
1800, was carried into and arrived at Jamaica, and
libelled on the 23d of the same month, and condemned
as lawful prize on the 28th of June following. That
the respondent was informed of the capture by a letter
from Lucas, and that Dick, MICall & Co. had taken
the necessary steps to defend the property. That he
was informed afterwards, by the arrival of a Mr. Grigg,
in the beginning of August, 1800, that the schooner was
condemned, and that an appeal had been entered. That
the respondent had no opportunity of writing to Lucas
during the trial. That immediately upon receiving
notice of the condemnation, he applied to the com-,
mandant general of the Danish West-India islands to
use his endeavours to obtain reparation from the American government, to \which he received an answer,
(which is lost) together with a letter for the secretary of
state of the United States, which he forwarded.
That being advised that the United States were the
proper party to prosecute the appeal, and fearing that
his further interference mightprove prejudicial to his
interest, he did not pr~sqcute the appeal until he received
from Mr. Soderstrom a copy of a letter' from the secretary of state of the United States to him, dated the
26th of November, 1800, by which he understoodthat
the governmient of the. United States wished him to
prosecute his appeal, 114 consequence of which, he w'rote
for that purpose to his correspondents in London, by
whom he was informed that they had taken the necessary steps to procure a reversal of the decree of condem.
nation; but that in the mean time the proceeds of thc
sales of the prize had been paid to the prize captain,
who had died insolvent, so that do redress was finally
had.
s

FEBRUARY, 1806.

On the 29th of January, 1806, the circuit- court
affirmed the sentefice of the district court, except as to
the first and second items in the r port of the clrk;iud
decreed restitution of the value and damages, amounting to 33,244 dollars 67 cents, and costs.
From this sentence Maley appealed to this court.
The libellant also appealed as to so much of "he
sentence as disallowed those two items of the clerk's
report.
Breckenridge, atiorney general, for the appellant,
jtnd Harper, Key, and .Mlartin, for the appellee.
Argument for the appellant.
Two grounds were taken by the attorney general:
ist. That Maley had committed no 'act mala fide,
hut was in the performance 6f an authorised public
dutyj and was therefore justified.
2d. That the claim to. reparation is without merit,
and without law.
1. The act being done in the execution of a publi6
duty, cannot, in our courts, be considered as done mala
fde.
It was the policy of the times to prevent our citizens,
whether resident here or abroad, from trading directly
or indirectly with the French; and that policy oughtto
be kept in view when the several acts of congress on
this subject are under consideration. These acts are
in vol. 4, p. 129, 7une 13th, 1798, and p. 244, 9th Feb.
1799, and vol. 5, p. 15, 27th Feb. 1800.

These laws

being all in par matcria, are to be taken into one view,
and although some of them had expired, yet it is proper
that they should be considered when deciding upon the
construction of subsequent statutes on the same subject.
All the acts went successively to cut off the intercourse
more efectually. The fifth section of the act of Fertx.

MAzXv
v.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MALEY

V.

ary, 1799, authorises the President t6i give instructions.
to the c6mmanders of the public armed ships to stop,

~ examine,

and yend in ships suspected-vol. 4, p. 24.7.
This was going a step further than the act of June,
1798, which did not authorise any such instructions.

The act of Feb. 1800, (vol. 5. p. 15) goes further
still, and extends the prohibition of intercourse to citizens of the United States residing abroad; and expressly prohibits the island of Hispanola, excepting
such ports as should be excepted by the proclamation
of the President.
Under the act of 1799, the President caused the
instructions*-of 12th of M[arch, 1799, to be issued to
the commanders of the public armed vessels of the
United States, by which their attention was particularly
called to the practice of covering the illicit trade under
the Danish fl'ig. The direction not to injure or harrass the fair neutral commerce, inplies a right to stop
and examine; and if, upon such examination, they
should.have reasqnable cause to suspect that the vessel
was engaged in violating the law, the instructions, as
well as the law, required them to seize and send her in
for adjudication.
There was, therefore, a clear right
(at least a right which our courts cannot deny) to detain
the'vessel a reasonable time for examiliation, and if it
wds a doubtful case, to send her for further examination
t6 the commanding officer on that station.
That there was probable cause sufficient to justify such
a measure, (howeyer it might be in a case of actual
seizure, and sending in for adjudication) can scarcely be
doubted.
1. Shattuck was a native American citizen, resident
in a place suspected by our government. The certificate
of the merchants of St. Thomas, respecting his burgher.
ship, naturally led to suspicion.
It appears, by the
letters in the.record, that although his neutrality had
been respected in Tortola, yet it had not been respected
in Jamaica.
' See these instructions at length, cited in the case of BarrenirY.
Little, 2 Cranch, 171.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

2. The vessel was known to have been built in the

United States, and to have lately belonged to American

citizens. She had sailed ffom Baltimore after the passiqg of the act of congress.

S. The sbip's papers showed her destination to be to
Port-au-Prince, a place not prohibited; but she was
stopped as she was entering Yacmel, a forbidden port.
An attempt is made to account for this, by verbal orders, but there is no proof of them ; and it does not appear that Lieut. Maley was informed of such orders, at
the time of the detention, nor of the fact that Toussaint
had possession of the place.

,But if Maley had known of the verbal orders, the reason assigned by Shattuck for those orders, was, in itself,
a strong ground of suspicion. The reason was, that he
had heard that Toussaint had possession of 7acmel. If
the vessel and cargo were bona fide Danish property, h6
Smight, with equal safety, have t&,aded
there while the
place was in possession of Rigaud, as while in that of
Toussaint. The reason could only apply to American
property, upon the presumption that the United States
would take off the prohibition, 'when it should be known
that .7acmelwas no longer unhder the acknowledged jurisdiction of France.
4. All the material- papers were not produced. The
master did not produce his burgher's brief, showing him
to be a Danish subject; and a Danish vessel cannot law-'
fully sail, but under a Danish master.
The, attestation of his burgher's brief, is dated long
after the vessel was stopped.
It must be remembered, that Maley did not seize the
vessel, as a prize, or as a forfeiture, but only dctained
her for further examination. The question, therefore,
-is'not whether there was probable cause of seizure, but
probable cause forfurtherexamination.
The master was not dispossessed of his vessel; none
of the cr.w were taken out; her papers were not removed; no violence or outrage was committed. But

BALr?

V.

S

SUPREME COURT U. S.

S

,MAY.Ey while detained for further examination, the vessel was
seized by a stronger hand and carried away by a superior
. C force.
If it be objected that no resistance was made; it is
answered that none could be made. The vessel was not
armed; and the officer was bound by his instructions, to
permit the right of search by all the belligerents except
France.
If it be said, that Maley ought to have claimed the vessel, in Jamaica-the answer is, that he had no right to
seize,, unless it was really an American vessel. If 'she
was a fair.neutral, Shattuck's claim must prevail.
If she was an American vessel she would hot be con.
demned ; if she was any thing else, he was not interested.
Maley's possession, therefore, was lawful and bona
_fide. If a loss has hAppened, it has been produced ,by
the vis major of another, to whom the injured party
ought to look for reparation, 4 Rob. 284. Maley's possession being bonafide, he cannot be answerable for the
,nalaflde act of another.
-

He detained the vessel only six hours ; and she was
sailing towards Port-au-Prince,the ostensible place of her
destination, when captured by the British ship of war.
Even'if Maley was mistaken, but acted with good
faith, he is not answerable for the loss. 1 Rob. 18.
.Betsey.
That was an American ship and cargo, taken by the
English, at the capture of Guadaloupe, in April 1794;
and retahen by the French,in June fbllowing. The Amnerican claimants libelled the English captors for restitution in value. The captors defended theinselves by an
allegation that the ship had broken the blockade.
Sir William Scott, after deciding that there was no defence, on the ground of breach of blockade, stated the
question to be, whether the original captors were exonerated of their responsibility to the American clhimants.

FEBRUARY;

1806.

4Ul

"It is-to be observed," says he" that at the time of recapture, America was a neutral country, and -in amity with
France. I premise this fact as an important circumstance in one part of the case ; but the principal points
for our consideration are, whether the possession of the
original captors was, in its coMmencement, a legal bonte
fide possession ? And, 2d, whether such a possession,
b eingjust in its commencement, became afterwards, bk
any subsequent coqduct of the captors, tortious and illegal ? For on both -these points the law is clear, that a
bona fide possessor is not responsible for casualties;
but that he may, by subsequent misconduct, forfeit the
protection of hisfair title, and render himself liable to be
considered.asa trespasserfrom the beginning. This is
the law, not of this court only, but of all courts, and one
of the first principles of universaljurisprudence."
He then noticeg two cases very much in point. " The
H
_Nicholas and 7an was one of several Dutch ships taken
at St. E.ustatius, and sent home, under convoy, to England,for adjudication. In the mouth of the channel they
were retaken by the Frenchfleet. There was much neutral property on board, suffciently documented," and a
demand of restitution, in value, was made by the neutral
owners, on the first captors. One of the grounds of the
demand was, that the captors had wilfully exposed the
propertyto danger, by bringing it home when they might
leave reb'orted to the admiralty courts, in the WestIndies ; but on this point the court was of opinion, that
under all the circumstances, they had not exceeded the
-discretion tiecess'arily entrusted to them by the nature of
their command.
It was also urged against the claimants in that case,
that since the property had been retaken by their allies,
they had a right to demand restitution in specie from
them ; and on those grounds the English courts rejected
their claims.
The other case which he cites, The 'endrich and 7acob, is still more like the present. A -amburgheseship
was erroneously taken as Dutch, and retaken by a French,
privateer, and was lost going into Nantz.
Vol. III. 1

3 Q_

DIALZY
V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MALE
SHATTUCK.

On demand for restitution, against the British captor,
the lords of appeal decided, that as it was a seizure made
on unjustiiable grounds, the owners were entitled to
restitution from some quarter; that as tl;e French recaptor had a justifiable possession, under prize taken from
his enemy, he was not responsible for the accident that
had befallen the property in his hands. That if the pro.
perty had been savedindeed, the claimant 'must have
looked for redress to the justice of his ally, the French;
but since that claim was absolutely extinguished, by the
loss of the goods, the proprietor was entitled to indemnification from the original captor.
After citing these authorities, Sir W. Scott inquires,
whether, in the case then before him, the original seizure
was so wrongful, as to induce that strict.responsibility,
which attaches to a.tortious -and unjustifiable possession.
He then states some gt'6unds of suspicion which
might have appeared to the captors, as to the fairness
of the neutrality, and proceeds to inquire whether any
conduct of the captors, after the' first seizure, had rendered them liable to the strictest responsibility. " On
this point,' says he, "1I must distinctly lay it down,
that the irregularities, to produce this effect, must have
been such as would justly prevent restitution by the
French. If such a case could be supported, I will
admit there might then be just grounds for resorting
to the British captor for indemnification ; but till this
is proved, the responsibilitywhich lies on recaptors to
restore the property of allies and neutrals, will be held
by these, courts to exonerate the originalcaptors." In
the conclusion of his opinion he says, "if the neutral
has sustained any injury, it proceeds not from the Bri.
tish, but from the French; and there is no reason that
British captors should pay for French injustice."
So we say in our case, there is no reason that the
American officer, who merely stopped the vessel for
examination, should pay for british injustice.
2. That the claim to reparation is without merit,.
and without law.

FEBRUARY,- 1806.

483

Shattuck was himself the cause of the suspicious circumstances which led to the detention of the vessel by
Maley, who would have been guilty of a neglect of
duty, and disobedience of orders, if he had done otherwise than he did. There was no improper conduct on
his behalf, and the whole detention'was only six hours,
The British were bound to restore the vessel and cargo
without salvage, and with damages and costs, if it
was really the property of a neutral, and this would
have been ddne, without doubt, if Shattuck had pro.
secuted his appeal, and been able to prove his property. But having acquiesced in the decree of condemnation as enemy-property, he can never deny
the fact. It is conclusive evidence against him. If
not conclusive, it is still evidence of probable cause of
suspicion. Upon the evidence which caused Maley
to suspect, the court of.admiralty condemned. This is
_surely sufficient to justify his detention of six hours for
examination.
Argument for the appellee. Unless the taking was
lawful, or with probable cause, the captor is liable for
all the loss. This principle is admitted by the argument for the appellant. The case of the Charming
Betsey, 2 Cranch, 64, was stronger in favour of captain Murray than this is in favour of lieutenant Ma.
ley; and yet, in that case, this court decided that,
captain Murray was a trespasser, and liable for damages
and costs.

It is no answer to say, that the loss does not appear
to have been the consequence of Maley's act. If the
taking was unlawful, he is liable at all events. It is
like the case of deviation, which throws the loss upothe assured, although the loss was not the consequence
of the deviation. It is sufficient if it exposed the property in any manner to a liability to danger. But here
it is evident that the loss would not have happened,
if the vessel had not been detained. She was within
an hour's sail of Jacmel, and would have gone in with
safety.

MALxV

wV

-9HATTCCK

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MALtV

Two questions present themselves for consideration.

SHATTUCK.

Ist. Was the capture lawful ! and,
2d. Was there probable cause ?
A third question may also arise, whether, upon the
appeal of Shattuck, the sentence of the district court
ought not to be affirmned, as to the items excepted to
by the counsellfor Maley,
1. The first question isi whether the capture was
lawful ? On this point the case of the CharmingBetsey
is conclusive. It was there decided by this court,
1st. That the non-intercourselaw did not extend to
vessels built in the United States, and bona fide sold
before the act of trading. In the present case the
vessel was sold before the existence of the act under
which her seizure is now attempted to be justified.
2d. That the sale must appear to be made with intent to evade the law.
3d. That a native citizen of the United States may
so far change his national character, as to take him out
of the vperation of that act. The present appellee is
the same person whose property was in contest in that
case ; and although that fact does not appear on this
record, yet it appears that he is a person in exactly the
same circumstances.
But the sentence of the vice-admiralty court in Ja.
maica, is said to be conclusive evidence against Shat.
tuck.
But the sentence is only conclusive evidence that she
was good prize to the British. It does not state for
what cause. It contains no direct reference to the
libel, or other parts of the proceedings. If it refers to
the libel, the property is there stated to be Frenc4 or
Spanish, or to belong to some other enemy of" GreatBritain. If you look into the proof exhibited in that
court, it shows it clearly to be the property of Shattu.k.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

485 "

At all.events, neither the record, nor the proceedings
in Jamaica, show it to be American property, violating
case
the laws of the United States, which is the only
that could justify the capture by Maley. If it was
Spanish property, he had no right to touch it. If it
was a Frenchvessel, unless armed, he had no right to
seize it, So that if the sentence is conclusive evidence,
it is as *conclusive against Maley as it is against Shattuck.
But it is said be ought to have prosecuted his appeal; and, not having done so, he has been guilty of
negligence. So far from this is the trfith, that he was
not bound to resort at all to the British captors. It
was the duty of Maley, or the United States, to resort
to them. His remedy was against Maley. He was
not bound to look further. It can be no ground of a
charge of negligence to say, that he has done more
than he was bound to do.
2. Was there probable cause?
On this point too the case of the Charming Betsey is
conclusive. The grounds of suspicion in this case are
,not so strong as they were in that.
But probable cause is no ground on which to deny
restitution of the thing itself, or its value. It only
excuses from damages for the tort. It is no bar to a
reimbursement of actual loss. Shattuck asks only for
restitution and expenses ; and this is the least that a
friendly nation ought to give.
3. As to the items in the statement o the value, and
4xpenses, which have been excepted against.
All the outfits of the vessel, ana expenses of shipping
the cargo, together with the outward duties, in addition to the first cost, constituted the value of the vessel
and cargo, at the time of seizure, and ought to be allowed. The premium of insurance also was a proper
For, ,although no insurance, was actually
charge.
made, yet Shattuck was to be considered in the light of
his owi4 insurer, and the risk was worth the premium.

MiXAT=Y
S

.

486
MALzY

v.

SUPREME COURT U.. S.

There is evidence in the record that it is a customary
charge in such cases.

IHAT"UMC1.

Argument, in reply.

This ,case is not like that of

the Charming Betsey. In that case the loss was produced by captain 11jurray's own act; But in this, the
loss is not the immediate effect of the act of Maley,
but of the commander of the British privateer, who
is liable to Shattuck for the injury he has sustained.
To convert an originally lawful act into a trespass, by
subsequent misconduct, that misconduct must proceed
from the party himself, and not from the act of another, whose conductlhe cannot controul.
In the case of the Charming Betsey, the court de.
cided in express terms, that " herpapers wereperfectly
correct." " In the present case, some of the papers
were false and delusive, and others were not shown, or
were not found.
The sentence in Jamaica is conclusive evidence that
the property was not neutralDanishproperty, which is
the very ground of the present libel. Unless, therefore,
the admiralty court of one nation can reverse the sentence of an admiralty court of -mother nation, that
sentence in Jamaica -is conclusive against Shattuck's
title. If he had prosecuted his appeal, and reversed
the sentence, he would have obtained indemnification.
By his instructions from his government, Maley was
bound to act on reasonable suspicion. They gave him
notice of the practice of coyering this illicit trade with
the Danish flag. When, therefore, he found a recent
sale of an American vessel to a person pretending to
have become a Danish subject, and residing in a place
notorious for its abuse of its neutral flag-when he
found the vessel attempting to enter a prohibited port,,
with an ostensible destination to a port not prohibited.-when no evidence was exhibited to show that the.
master of that vessel was a DanisK subject-and when
his instructions required him " to be vigilant, that
vessels really American, but -coveredby Danis1h papers,
and bognd to *r from French ports, do not escape

PEBRUARY,

1806.

481

you," how is it possible to say that he had not" reason
to suspect

Although any one of these circumstances alone might
not afford "'reason to'suspet," yet the combination of
the whole certainly did.
With respect to the claim of insurance, the case of
the CharmingBetsey is full in point. It is admitted
that no insurance has been paid. And the court in
that case expressly said, that "a public officer, entrusted on the high seas, to perform a deity deemed
necessary by his country, and executing, according to
the best of his judgment, the orders he-has received,
if he is the victim of any mistake-he' commits, ought
certainly never to be assessed with vindictive or speculative damages, '" The claim "or insurance not paid is
certainly a claim of speculative damages.
The direction of the court to the assessors was, "1to take the
prime cost of the cargo and vessel, with interest
thereon, including the insurance actually paid."
The consideration of the other items is submitted to
the consideration of the court.
M7farch 3.
-MARSHALL, Ch.
eourt.

3i,.z-Y
V
v.

SlArTUCIZ

J.

delivered the opinion of the

In this case each party has appealed from the sen.
tence of the circuit court. Maley complains of that
sentence because it subjects him to damages and costs
for the value of the Mercator and'her cargo, first cap.
tured by him, and afterirards -taken out of his posses.
sion by a British privateer, and because, also, some
items are admitted into the account, taken for the purpose of ascertaining the sum, for which he is liable,
which,ought to be excluded from it. Shattuck complains of the sentence because he was not allowed by the
circuit court, all the items contained in the report, to
the whole of which, he thinks himself entitled.

SUPREME COURT tJ' S.
Mnr.zr

V,

In discussing the right of Shattuck to compensation
for the Mercator and her cargo, the first question which
Spresents

itself is, was that vessel and cargo really hit

property ?
Without reciting the various documents filed in the
cause, -it will be admitted that they demonstrate the
affirmative of this question, unless the court be pre.
cluded from looking into them by the sentence in
Jamaica, condemning the ship and cargo* as lawful
prize.

On the conclusiveness of the sentence of a foreign
cduft of admiralty, it is not intended now to decide.-,-.
For the present, therefore, such ,sentence will be considered as conclusive, to the same extent which is allowed
to it in the courts of Great Britain. But, in those
courts, it has never been supposed to eyidence more
than its -own correctness; it has consequently never
been supposed to establish any particular fact, without
which the sentence may have been rightly pronounced.
If then, in the present case, the Mercator, with her
cargo, may have been condemned as prize, although in
fact they were both known to be the pioperty of a neutral,
the sentence of condemnation does not negative the
averment that they both belonged to Jared Shattuck.
It is well known that a vessel libelled as enemy's
property is condemned as prize, if she act in such manner as to forfeit the protection to which she io entitled
by her ineutral character. If, for example, a search be
resisted, or an attempt be made to enter a blockaded
port, the laws of war, as exercised by belligerents,
authorise a condemnation as enemy's property, however
clearly itmay be proved that the vessel is, in truth, the
vessel of a friend. Of consequence, this sentence,
being only conclugive as to its own correctness, leaves
the fact of real title open to investigation. This positive impediment to inquiry being removed' no doubt
upon the subject can be entertained.
It being proved that the Mercator and her cargo
belonged to Jared Shattuck, who, though born in the
United States, had removed to the island of St. Thomas,

FEBRUARY, 1806.

489

and had acquired all the commercial rights of his
domicil before the occurrence of those circumstances
which occasioned the act of cdngress, unde which this
seizure is alleged td have been made, the case of the
Charming Betsey determines that the vessel and cargo
were not liable to forfeiture under those acts.
It remains, then, to inquire whether the Mercator
appeared under such circumstances of suspicion" as to
justify her seizure.'
On this point, too, the authority of the Charming'
Betsey appears to be decisive. In each case the vessel
was'built in America, and had been recently sold to a
person born in the United States, who had become a
-D-uish burgher before the rupture between this country and France; and both cases present the same circumstances- of suspicion, derived from the practice of
the islaird to cover American as Danish property.The points of dissimilitude are, that in the Charming
Betsey the captain and crew were of a descriptioh to
give greater suspicion than the captain and crew of the
Mercator; and in the Charming Betsey was found a
proces verbal, which stated -facts unfavourable to that
vessel, whereas no similar paper was found in the Mer-cator. The only circtfimstance of susicion attending
the Mercator,. which did not b'elon'g to the Charming
Betsey, is that she was bound to Port-au-Prince, and
was taken entering the port of Yacrhel. This circumstance app'eart to be sufficiently accotdnted for, but if ii
was nIot,-the court can perceive in it no evidence of her
being American property which can weigh against the
testimony offered by the paliers that she was Danish.
The documents on this point which were thought decisive in the 'case of the Charming Betsey, exist in this
case also. -The information of the captain, uncontradicted by any of his drew, in this case, as in that, is
corroboratied and confirmed by the documents on board
the vessel.
The only paper, the absence-of which could be im.
p6rtant, was an authenticated burgher's brief proving
the captain to have been a Danish subject. How far
3R

MALxr

V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MALrY

V.

SHATTUCK.

y

the absemce of this paper might have justified a sus.
picion in a bellig~rent that she was enemy-property,
so as to excuse from damages for capture and detention,
according to the usages of belligerents, the court will
not undertake to determine; but it was a casualty which
is not sufficient to justify a suspicion that the vessel
was American. The burgher's brief is stated to have
been in possession of the captain; but is supposed not
to have been produced, and consequently it could have
no influence on lieutenant Maley. However this may
be, no inquiry respecting it was made, and -he does not
appear to have sugge-sted any difficuliy on that grotind.
Unquestionably lieutenant Maley had a right to stop
and to search the Mercator, and to exercise .his judgment on the propriety of detaining her; but, in the
exercise of that judgment, he appears to have. come to
a decision not warranted by the testimony presented to
him. The circumstances of suspicion arising in the
case, were not sufficiently strong to justify the seizure
which was made.
But it is obvious, that lieutenant Maley suspected
the Mercator to be a French, not an. American vessel.
In his answer he says, that he mistook the captain for
a Frenchman; in his letter of instructions, he speaks of
the vessel as a prize ; andt in the protest of the Ame.
rican prize-master, she is denominated 9'a French
prize." From these circumstances combined, it is sup.
posed to be sufficilently apparent, that the mistake committed by lieutenant Maley, was in supposing the
Mercator to-be a French vessel liable to capture under
the laws of the United States.
The argument of the attorney general, that lieute.
nant Maley is not liable for this loss, because it was
produced by a superior force, which it was not in his
power to resist, would have great weight, if the circumstances under which the Mercator appeared had
been such as to 'justify her seizure. But the court is
not of that opinion, ahd consbquently that argument
loses its application to this case.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

491

Neither is it conceived that the failure of Shattuck
to appeal in time, destroys his claim on lieutenant
Maley. He had certainly a right to abandon if he
chose to do so, and to resort to the captor for damages.
In the opinion given in the circuit court, that the
libellant was entitled to compensation for the Mercator
and her cargo, this court can perceive no error: but in
so much of the report of the commissioners appointed
to adjust the account as is affirmed, some unimportant
inaccuracies appear.
In its circumstances, this case so strongly resemblesthat of the Charming Betsey, th.it the court will be
governed by the rule there laid down. In pursuance
of that rule, the rejection of the premium for insurance,
that premium not having been paid, is approved; but
the rejection of the claim for outfits of the vessel, and
the necessary advance to the crew is disapproved.Although the general terms used in the case of the
Charming Betsey would seem to exclude this item from
-the account, yet the particular question las not under
the consideration of the court, and it is conceived to
stand on the same principles with the premium of
insurance if actually paid, which was expressly allowed.
But this claim is nearly balanced by two items in the
account which were admitted, as this court thinks, improperly.
Oneis the charge of 540 dollars for the expense of soliciting compensation from the United States. The court
can perceive no reason for charging this expense to lieutenant Maley.
The other is the charge of 326 dollars and twelve cents,

the account of Ross and Hall, for expenses in England.
Had the appeal been prosecuted in time by Shattuck,
it is scarcdy possible to doubt, *butthat the sentence of
the court, in Jamaica, would have been reversed, in.
which case it would have been -reasonable, that the expense of the prosecution should have been paid by Lieutenant Maley. But as it was not prosecuted in time, in
consequence of which, the proceeds of the vessel and

M6ALz
V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
"MALLr
V.
SRkT.TrCK

cargo were lost, it is not conceived, that lieutenant
lMaley ought to be charged with the costs of a subsequent
in ffertual attempt, not made at his instance, to repiur
.the original neglect.
What may be the claim of Shattuck, on the government of the United States, for this sum, is not for this
court to inquire; but his claim against lieutenant M4ley is not admitted.
This court affirms so much of the sentence of the circuit court, as awards compensation for the Mercator and
her cargo, to the libellant, and approves of the sentence'
on the report of the commissioners, except as to that part
which rejects the claim for advances for the outfits of
the vessel, and the wages of the crew, and whjch admits
the charges of 540 dollars, on account of the expenses
attending the application to the government of the United
States, and of 326 dollars and twelve cents, on account
of expenses attendant on the ineffectual attempt which
was made to prosecute an appeal in England. In the~e
respects, the account is to be reformed, for which purpose, so much of the sentence of the circuit court, as respects this part of the subject, is reversed, and the case
is remanded to the circuit court to be further proceeded
in, as to justice shall appertain.

LAWRASON v. MASON.
LAWRASONV.

MASOW.

A letter from
the defendapts to 7. M.
saying that
they would be
his security

ERROR to the circuit court of the" district of Co.
lumbia.
This was an action of assumpsit, brought by Mason,
against 'Lawrason, surviving partner of the firm of

of corn, paya Lawrason & Smoot, up'on the following note:

