SUPREME COURT U. S.
Mason. There is no precedent of a judgment against
the United States for costs. In the case of the United
HoopsD States v. La Vengeance, 3 Dal. 301, the decree of the
oQaES.s
circuit court was affirmed with costs. But the next day
Sthe
Chief Justice directed the words "with costs" to be
struck out, as there appeared to have been some cause
for the prosecution. But he observed, in doing this,
the court did not mean to be understood as at all deciding
the question, whether, in any case, they could award,
costs against the United States, but left it entirely open
for future discussion.

THzURrrZD
STATES

.1farch 6th.
The court directed the decree of the court below to be
affirmed, except as to costs, and reversed so much of the
decree as awarded the 'United States to pay costs, and
directed that no costs be allowed to either party in thiq
court.

PEYTON v. BROOKE.
Pzviou
13ROOKE,

Wednesday, February 27.

In Virginia, THIS case came before the court, upon a bill of excepif the first ca. tions to the opinion of the circuit court of the district of
a.be return- Columbia, for the pounty of Alexandria, upon a motion
e non et,
the for execution on a forthcoming l ond, had taken under
second.
may
include the the act of assembly of Virginia.
eosts of issu-

gboth.

Revised Code, P. 309.

The bond, upon which the motion was made, recites a ca. sa. against Peyton, in favour of Brocke, for
525 dollars, and 624 potinds of tobacco, at thirteen shillings- and four pence per hundred weight, and marshatl's fees and commissions, and all costs, 19 dollars
and 96 cents, amounting in the whole to 578 dollars
and 82 cents.
The execution on which the bond was taken, was
for 525 dollars, and 20 dollars, and 624 pounds of to.
bacco, at thirteen shillings and four pence per hundred
weight.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

93

The whole amount of costs taxes on the original

judgmefit was 20 dollars and 12 cents, and 602 pounds

of tobacco, including the costs of issuing an execution.
The bond was taken upon an alias ca. sa. the first
having been returned non est. The- first execution
was for 525 dollars, and 20 dollars and 12 cents, and
602 pounds of tobacco.
The execution upon which the bond kWas taken, included 22 pounds of tobacco, (the clerk's fees for issuing
the alias ca. sa.) and did not include 12 cents, part of
the costs taxed upon the original judgment.
The plaintiff, in the court below, released 44 pounds
of tobacco, the costs of issuing both executions, and
the court below gave judgment for the plaintiff. The
defendant brought his writ of error.
The court called for statements of the case, agreeable to the rule of court.
Swann, for defendant in error, said he had supposed
the rule to extend only to plaintiffs in error. The court
said they expected them from both sides. No statements were prepared.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. We wish to give general notice
to the gentlemen of the har, that unless statements
of the case are furnished according to the rule, the
causes must either be dismissed or contiqued.

ifones, for plaintiff in error. There are two objections to the proceedings of the court below.
1st. That the alias capias and the bond include 22
pounds of tobacco for the clerk's fee, in issuing the
alias capias.
2d. That the alias capias does not include 12 cents,
taxed as part of the costs on the orig',nal judgment.
For this variance between the bond and the original
judgment, the courtbelow ought not to have awarded

P.rozV.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PSvTo
'V.

execution upon the bond, but ought to have quashed
'both the bond, and the execution upon which it was
founded.
Every execution must pursue the judgment, or it
is void.
The judgment having included all the costs, a ministerial officer cannot add any thing, unless warranted by
statute.
No fee is given by statute for issuing An alias 'capias.
The executi n was therefore void, and no subs. quent
release of the fee by the plaintiff can make it good.
The plaintiff, if he takes out an alias ca. sa. must do it
at his own cost. 'he words of the act of assembly
(Revised Code, p. 308, ยง2.) are, " when any writ of'
execution shall issue, and the party, at whose suit the
same is issued, shall afterwards desire to take out
another writ of dxecution at his own proper costs and
charges, the clerk may isste the same, if the first writ
be not returned and executed."
MARSHALL, Ch. J. Does not that relate to an alias
taken out before the return day of the first execution?
Jones. No alias execution can issue until after the
returnday of the first. If the first.execution be returned not executed ; or if it be executed and not rcturned, the plaintiff may have an alias, but it must be.
at his own expense. "
MARSHALL, Ch. J. Would not an action at common law lie on the bond, even if the execution was
quashed upon which the bond was founded?

C. Lee. If the bond was erroneous, the court would
quash it as well as the execution. (Simm v. Yohnsdn,
in tile court of appeals of Virginia, reported in Washington's or Call's Reports.)
MARSHALL, Ch. J. The plaintiff may quash the
bond, and proceed on the original judgment; but the
defendant can only quash the execution. A difference

FEBRUARY, 1805.1

95

was taken bet~ween a bofid on a ca. sa. and a bond on a
ft. fa. under the construction of the statute of H. 8,
respecting sheriffs taking bonds colore officii. The case
is reported. I was counsel and argued the case. I
believe it was that of Simm v. .7ohnson.
Simms, for defendant in error. At common law,
a creditor might have an alias 'capias if the first was
reurned non est. The statute provides, that he may
also have an alias if the first be not returned executed.
If the first b3e not returned, the alias must be at the
plaintiff's costs ; if it be returned, the alias is to be at
the costs of the defendant.
In no case is judgment given for the costs of an ex-"
ecution. The clerk never taxes it until he issues the
execution. The constant and uniform practice of the
courts ,of Virginia, is tq add the cost of the alias, if
executed.
the first be returned and noE
, But if the clerk had not a right to insert the cost of
the alias ca. sa. that does not vitiate the bond. It is
but the act of a ministerial officer, and the court*
have a right to correct it.
The' sheriff is to 'take the bond for the amount mentioned in the execution. It is not right that the error
of the clerk should deprivd the plaintiff of his security ; especially; as the bondis given for the benefit of the
debtor, and the creditor has released the whole amount
in dispute. It is no cause to quash the bond ; nor to
render it void at common law.
Swann, on the same -side. The judgment is for
osts; all the costs which have accrued or shall accrue.. It is admitted that we have a right to recover
the costs of the first execution ; and even if the clerk
has mistaken the law in adding the costs of the second,
yet, that error is cured by the plaintiff's release. In
the case of Scott v. Hornsby, 1 Call, 41, the court
of appeals of Virginia, decided, that if a forthcoming
bond be taken for more than the sum due 'by the execution, and the plaintiff release the excess, the bond
will support a judgment.

PEYToU
v.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PEYroN
BRoOKE.

,ones, in reply. The awarding of execution on a
forthcoming bond, upon motion, is a summary remedy
Sgiven
by statue, in derogation of the common law,
and, therefore, the provisions of the statute must be
.strictly pursued. The. release cannot aid an error in
the exercise of this summary jurisdiction. I admit
the practice to be, that if'the bond be for more than'
;the judgment, and the plaintiff releases the excess, it
will support a judgment. So if the bond be for too
small a sum, it is still good as a bond at common law.
But in neither case will it support the summary proceedin'g by motion.
The taking a forthcoming bond,. is one mode of executing the writ. If the defendant be arrested, the
quashing 9f the execution releases his body. So, if
goods be taken on a f. fa. ;and the ft.fa.'be quashed,
the goods are discharged. S'o in this case, the bond,
(being taken in lieu of the goods or of the body) w'ould
be discharged by the quashing of the execution.
It is true the judgment is for costs ; but it cannot
be in the alternative ; that is, if one execution, then
for 22 pounds of tobacco; and if two executions, then
for 44 pounds of tobacco.
MARsHALL, Ch. J. The court is of opinion, that
the act of assembly contemplates the Gase where the
first execution is not returned nor executed ; that is,
where it is out and may be served.
The clerk was riglt in adding the costs of the alias
ca. sa. The judgment is for eosts, generally; which
includes all the cbsts belonging to the suit, whether
prior, or subsequent to the rendition of judgment.
If new costs accrue, the judgment opens to receive
them.
Judgment affirmed with costs.

