FEBRUARY,

1806.

399

THE UNITED -STATES v. HETH.

TnE UnTED
STATS.
V

H-rn.

THIS was a case certified from the circuit court of The collector
the fifth circuit, holden in the district of Virginia, where of the district
a question arose upon Which the opinions of the judges of Petrsburg
were opposed.

wea ,by the
act oftlte 10th
of ALAy, 180I,

The question was, whether the defendant, as collector
of the customs for the district of Petersburgh, was
restricted to a commission of two and a lialf per cent
on any, or all of the monies collected and received by
him after the 30th of June, 1800, on account of bonds
previously taken for duties arising on goods, wares,
and. merchandise, imported into the United States.

restricted toof
a
commission
two and a
half pee cent
on the maoies
byhimcollected and reccived after the
30th of June,
1800, ofbonds
on account

This question arose upon the 2d section of the act of preoun,
tacongress, entitled "an act, supplementary to an act, ken for dutieg
iigon
entitled an act, to establish the compensation of the
officers employed in the collection of the duties on im- gous importintoStates.
the Uport and tonnage'"-passed on the i0th of Mail, 1800, ed
nited
voL 5. p. 173. "1he words of which are, "that in lieu
of 'the commissions heretofore allowed by law, there
shall, from and after the thirtieth day of June next, be
allowed to the collectors for the districts of Alexandria,
Petersburgh, and Richmond, respectively, two and a
half per centum on all mohieg which shall be colltcted
and feceived by them," "for and on account of the duties
arising on'goods, wares, and merchandise, Imported
into tht" United States, and on the tonnage of ships and
-

vessels."

Breckinridge, attorney general, in behaof of the
United States, observed, that the words of the act
appeared to him so plain that they could not be elucidated by argument. He understood the language of.
the act to be, that only two and a half per cent should
be allowed on monies received after the 30th of June.
Although the collector may have done the greater part
of his duty by taking bonds for the duties, yet they were
neither collected nor paid before that day. It cannot
be deemed an unconstitutional act as being e.postfact-),
because the prohibition of the constitution extends t;
Grimmal cases only. 3 Dal. 386. Calder v. Bull.

400
STATES

Io. Heth. Although it is a sound rule of construction, that when the words of a statute have a plain, dis-

uIFTa.

tinct, qnd reasonable meaning, no re.currenee is to be

K{UJVITED

.

SUPREIE COURT U. S.

-

had to intendment, inference, or implication, yet, when

the-words of '. statute admit of two constructions, (as
in the present cave they evidently do, or they would not
now be under discussio'n) it cannot be improper to have
reference to similar laws, and to inquire how they have
been construed.
The first section of the act of 14th Feb. 1795, vol. 3,
c. 88, says, "that in lieu of the commissions heretofore
b9 law established, there shall be allowed to the collectors of the duties on import and tonnage, on all
monies by them respectivwly received on account of the
duties aforesaid, arising on tonnage, and on goods,
wares, and merchandise, imported after the last dky of
March next, to wit," "to the collector of Bermuda,
Hundred," (which office was then holden by the
defendant) "two per cent." This act raised his commissiotn .from one to two per cent; which two per cent
he charged only oii the duties that arose on importations
made after the last day of March, 1795; and one per
cent only bn the money received on bonds, payable
after that day, for goods imported bcfore.
The act of d March, 1797, vol. .3, ch. 63, raised the

defendant's commissions from two to threeper cent, in
precisely the sam& language as that of the last act; and
of course, it received from him the same construction,
and in both instances that construction was acquiesced
in. by the trqasury department.
The newt act upon the subject, and that which next
precedes the act in question, is that of 2dkfarch, 1V99,
vol.. 4, ch. 129, p. 447, entitled " an act to establish" (a
word not used in the titles of the former acts) "the

compensations of the officers," &c. the second section
of which runs thus: "that from ind after the last day
of March next, and in lieu of the fees and emoluments
lieretofore established; there shall be allowed and paid
'for the use of the collectors, naval officers, ahd surveyors, the fees following: thatis to say," &c. &c. (to the

collectors of sundry ports, not including the defendant)

FJEBRtTARY,

1806.

" and to thd collectors of all other districts, three per
cent on all monies by them respectively received on
account of the duties arising on goods. &c. imported

Tuz U,-rxzr

S,-X.s
HT.
into the United States, and on the tonnage of ships and Nu-ynr./

vessels," whereby the defendant's commissions were
establishedat three per cent.

-

, A difference of phraseology will be observed between
this and the two former laws. This section 6ays, "1that
front and after the lastday of Mlarch next," certain commissions shall be "allowed and paid'? on all monies
received on account of duties arising on goods 'imported intojhe UnitedStates," and not, as before, "imported after the last day of March next." Yet this diffe'ence of phraseology made no difference at the treasury in the construction of this law, until very lately.
The next act is that upbon which the .present question
arises; the second section of which sal s, "that in licu
.of the commissions heretofore allowed by law, there
shall, from and after the 30th day of 7une next, be allowed to the collectors, &c. two and a half per centum,
on all monies which shall be collected and received by
them, for and on account of the duties arising on goods,
wares, and merchandise imported into the UnitedStates,
and on the TONNAGE of ships and vessels."
There is no difference between the words of this act,
and those of the act of 1799, excepting that the present
act uses the words "collected andreceived," and the act
of 1799, uses the word " r ecei v ed " only. But the word
"collected," is believed to be merely an accidental tautology, which cannot alter the meaning of the section.
- Neither of the two last, like the former
laws on the.
commisthe
same subject, confines, by express words,
sions to the monies received for duties arising on goods
imported after a certain date; but the word after, is
placed in a different part of the sentence; yet all these
laws received the same construction at the treasury1 for
at least five months after this last. act had passedI a
constructioii, which, as the defendant still contends, was
perfectly correct.
3F
VQL. III.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
The collectoi can receive no higher or lower comr.,s mission upon the monies "collected add received!'
HZra.
upon the duties -arising on the tonnage of a vessel, than
~ upon the merchandise imported in such vessel.

THzU .TD
STATES

The section of the law in question, confines the chafige
of commissions to the money arisingon goods imported after the 30th of June, and on the tdnnage of vessels,
as strongly as if the words "after the 30th of June,"
had immediately followed the.word " imported."
The participle, "arising," must refer to the time
when the section is to take effect, i. e. "from and after
the 30th of June next." The duties arise when the
goods .are landed, and when-the bonds are taken.
To what time the words "arising" and " imported"
relate, is not, perhaps, at first view, very obvious; but
the date is found in the preceding part of the section.The only period mentioned throughout is "the 30th day
of June."
The true reading of this section must be thus:"there shall be allowed on-all monies to be'received for
duties arising on goods imported After the 30th of June
next." To speak of duties "arising" after the'80th of
June, 1800, on goods imported and landed before that
day, wo ild be absurid; for the duties " arise" as soon
as secured, th6ugh not received till a distant period.The word 11 imported," stands without any sign of time,
and may be past, present, or future, with equal propriety, unless resort be had to inference, and to the context.
The language, to have been precise, should have been
either "which may have been imported," or " to be
imported." The word, however, standing without the
explanatory signs, must receive that construction which
is most consonant to justice, reason, and common
sense.

By the 63d section of the collection law of 2d Marcb,
1799, itis enacted, "that the duties imposed by law on
'the tonnage of any ship or vessel, shall be paid to the
collector, at the time of making" entry of such ship or
vessel ; and it shailnot be lawful to grant any permit, or to

FEBRUARY, 1806.

403

unlade any goods, wares, or merchandise whatever, from TtzU.XTED
ship or vessel until the said tonnage duty is first STATES
such
a d '
Ppaid."
HETIHs.V
Itbeing admitted by the attorney-general, that the
iniport duties and the .tonna&e duties must go hand in
hand, no one can beat a loss for the time when the duties on
the goods imported in any ship or vessel arose. It would
he absurd to say, that the defendant was entitled to 3 per
cent upon the money received for the duties on the tonnage of the vessel which arrived and entered on the 20th
of June, and only two and a half per cent upon the monies
which might fall due, and be collectedand receivedby him
after the 30th of June, for, and on account of the duties
which had arisen on the 20th of June, upon the goods
imported in the same vessel.
Had it beeii the intention of congress, to have raised
the commissions of some collectors, and to have reduced
those of others, for like services performed ufider a former
law, they would have said, " that from and after the
30th day of June next, the commissions hereby allowed,
shall be upon all monies by them respectively received,
'for, and on account of the duties on goods, &c. which
may be then due to the United States, and outaanding
upon bonds, or which shall arise on goods, &c. imported
into the United States."
But had such been the language of the law, it would
have been unconstitutional,' because ex postfacto, and
tending to impair the obligation of the contract, which
was made between the United States and the collectors,
by the act of 1799. Yet the construction now contended
for by the attorney-general, will give the law the same
effect, as if its language had been as just stated ; for it
will take from the collector one-half per cent on the
amount of bonds, which were outstanding at his office on.
the 30th of June, 1800, and which, of course, had been
taken under the preceding act of 1799, by which his
commission was established at three per cent.
This construction will also involve both absurdity and
oppression.

494
e1zUirTED

v.E

HFTH.
'citizens

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Suppose a person, on the 29th of June, 1800, had secured duties, by bonds, to the amount of 500 dollars, payable at eight, ten and twelve months ; and that ten other
had made'entries on the same day, the duties on
which, amounted only to 49 dollars each, which being
under 50, they were each obliged to pay down, and up,
on which, the collector immediately received his commission of three per cent; yet, if ihe latp construction of the
treasury be correct, the collector was entitled to receive
only two and a half per cent upon the bonded duties,
although his responsibility and services were much greater
than in the other cases, in which he received his three
per cent on duties which'aroseat the same time on goods
imported at the same time, and in the same vesse4 and
although the bonds were taken tinder the same law of
1799, which expiessly establisheda commission of three
per cent, from and after the last day of 'March, upon all
monies received for duties arising"on goods imported into the United States until anew provision should be enacted and:go into operation ; that is, in effect, until the
30th day of June, 1800 ; for it never could have been
the intention of congress, that compensation laids should
apply to other cases than such as , aould originaieafter
such laws should go ipto operation.
Another case will show how the present construction
of the treasury might have proved extremely oppressive
to the defendant. Suppose that when he rendered his
quarterly account to the treasury, up to the 1st of April,
1800, there were then outstanding bonds for duties in
his office, to the amount of 150,000 dollars. He had a
right to calculate upon receiving, in the course of the
year, 4,500 dollars for his commissions thereon, and to
make his engagements accordingly. After making such
engagements, the law interferes to the utter ruin, perhaps,
of tle collector, who relied upon the faith of his government. If congress have a right to take away one sixth
part-of the collector's compensation, for services already
rendered, they may take the whole. The laborious and
responsible part of those services is performed when the
bonds are taken. It consists in-receiving the entries of
merchandise, examining invoices, classing and estimating duties, and taking bonds with responsible sureties,
&c. Indeed, the residue-of the services is mere matter

FEBRUARY,- 1806.
of form in many instances, for the bonds so taken are THETI-E
STArs
lodged in the bank where the monies are " collected and
V.
HrTH.
received," though the collector acknowledges the reueipt
of then in his weekly returhs. It can nvver be permitted to the United Stats, after these services are rendered,
t6 say, we have changed oir mind; instead of three per
cent you shall have but two and a half per cent. Such a
-conduct on the part of ani individual would l4e treated
with contempt and indignation ; or were this a case between a state and one of its citizens, and the state should
come into this court for relief, the court would not hesitate to compel the state to perform its contract. The
constitution of the United States, art. 1, 'section 10,
says, t no LNw impairing the obligation of contracts
9hall be passed."
If the treasury construction prevails, it will, in almost
every instance, confine the operation of the act of 1799,
to three months, instead of allowing it to operate until
the next law took effect; for one third of all the bonds
taken in July, 1799, for duties on European goods, and
all the bonifs taken for duties on wines and teas, did not
fall due till July,' 1800.
Suppose the law had'contained such a clause as this,
that from and after the 30th day of June next, in litu.
of the duties heretofore imposed by law, on goods, &c.
imported from Europe, subject to a duty bf twilve and a
half per cent ad valorem, there shall be -charged only a
duty often per cent advalorem, upon all such goods. &c.
imported into the United States."
"

Suppose a shipfrom London had arrived on the 13th
day of June, 1800 ; that all the cargo had been duly entered and discharged before the end of the month, except
one consignment of considerable value, and that after the
expiration of fifteen working days, such goods thad been
* taken from on board, and stored agreeably to law. Upon
the ist of July, the assignee appeared before the collector,
with his entry duly made out, and his sureties ready to
enter into bonds for the duties. The collector contended
for the dudes at twelve and a half percent qrd valorem;
the consignee offered to secure the duties at ten per cent
advalorem. Would this court say that he was not bound
to pay the twelve andahalfper cent duties, because, frqra

SUPREME COURT U. S.
tzrEiUKXrrs
STrATS
HETH.

neglect or design, he did not secure the payment of the
duties, -and take away his- goods when the other im,
'porters did
The difference of phraseology, between the two former
and two latter laws, on the same subject, was not the effect
of a design to benefit one collector, and to injure another;
but was. merely owing to the differqnt manner in which
different men will ever express themselves, in defining
the same'subject matter,
Brechenridge, attorney-general, in reply.
No argument, in favotir of the defendant, can be drawn
from the act of 1795, vol. 3, p. 168 ; for the words there,
are expressly "on goods, &c. imported after the last day
of March," but the words of the present act, differ very
materially; instead of saying, on goods imported after
the 30th of June, it says, on monies collected and received
after the 30th of June. The difference of phraseology
used by the legislature, when legislating on the -same subject; evidently implies a difference of intention.
The word " arising".makes no difference in the construction of the sentence. It would have the same meaning if that word were entirely left out. The expression,
"duties on goods," is the same,, in effect, as the expression, " duties arising on goods." That part, of the
sentence is only descriptive of the subject, or fund, .out
of which the monies were to be received. The words
of the act of 1797, vo4l 3, p. 392, which gave the defendant a commission of three per cent are "on all
monies, received orr account of the duties arising on
tonnage, and on goods, wares and merchandise, imported
after the last day of March, in the present year." Here
is the same remarkable difference in language, which was
observed in the act of 1795 ; and which' adds strength to
the argument, that the variation of the expressions was not'
accidental, but intended to convey a different signification.
The words of the act of 1800, are not that the collector shall receive only two and a half per cent on the
duties arising on goods imported after the 30th of June;
but on all monies, collected and received, after that day,
on goods imported at any tiae. Zonies due, by bond,

PEBRUARY, 1806.

407

ar6 not monies collected and received. The actual collec- T izUNxT rD
STATES
V.
tion, and receipt of the money, was the only act which
HXTH.
could entitle the coUector to his commission, under
either law ; and if collected and. received after the Soth kav-y-mmd
of June, only two and a half per -cent could be demanded.
j oHNsow, J. This is an amicable .uit, instituted to
try the question, whether the defendant, lately, collector of the port of Pete.rsburgh, was, after the 30th
day of June, 1800, entitled to retain three per centum
Zn the amount of sums received by hi& after that time,
upon bonds for duties taken between that period aiid
the last day of March, 1799.
The'claim of the defendant is founded upon the act
of March 2d, 1799, "to establish the compensations
of theofficers employed in the collection of the duties,"
&c. And the opposition, on behalf of the government, is founded on the act of May 1.0th, 1800, supplementary to the one before mentioned.
The whole difficulty results from the vague signification of some of the expressions made use of in the
latter act; which, so far as may be material to the
present decision, are contained in the folIowing extract from the 2d section: "That in lieu of the commissions her'etofore allowed by law, there shall, from
and after the 30th day of June next, be allowed to the
collectors for the districts of Alexandria, Petersburgh
and Richmond, respectively, two and a half per
centum on all monies which shall be collected and received by them,"" for and on account of the duties
arising 9n goods, wares and merchandise, imported
into the United States, and on the tonnag6 of ships and
vessels."
On behalf of the United States it is cofitended, !hat
the rights of the cofle.Eors of duties, with regard to
their compensation, are absolutely submitted to the
will of congress; that congress has uniformly increased
or diminished that compensation, as circumstances
suggested the expediency of such a measure, without
regarding any supposed limitation of their right to do

SUPREME. COURT U. S.
TnlZU.-tTE

STVTS
HETH.

so imposed by the claims of their officers ; that it has
been the uniform policy of the government to apportion

the commission to the actual'receipt of money; and,

~ therefore, whatever may have been the proportion of
their labour or responsibility, their right to compensation was not consummated b6efore the actual receipt of
the duties, and the amount of their commission remained liable to be increased or diminished at the will
of congress ; that in passing their act of May 10th,
1800, they had a right to give it a retroactive operation ; and the latter words of the 2d section, " arising
on goods imported," will bear, and ought to receive
such a construction.
At thie same time that I admit the correctness of
the prefatory observations of the attorney-general, my
mind is led to adopt a conclusion unfavourable to the
construction which he contends for.
The rights of the collectors of duties, as to their
compensation, are certainly submitted to the justice and
honour of the country that employs them, until, consummated by the actual receipt of the sums bonded in
their respective offices; but where an individual has
performed certain services, under the, influence of a
prospect of a certain emolument, that confidence which
it is the interest of every government to cherish in the
minds of her citiZens, a confidence which experience
leaves no room to distrust in our own, would lead to a
conclusion, that it could not have beenrthe intention of
the legislature tb defeat a reasonable expectation of her
officer, suggested by her own laws. Unless, therefore, the ,words are too imperious to admit of a different construction, it will be gratifying to the court to be
able to vindicate the justice of the government, by restricting the words of the law to a future operation.
That it is the policy of the United States in granting
compensations to her revenue officers, to limit the con.
summation of their right to the actual receipts of mo.
ney, is evident from a view of all her acts on that subject. But it is observable, that every end of that po.
ilcv is answ'ered in this case, because the claim of the
deiendant is founded upon: the actual receipt of money

FEBRIYAIY,

1806.

409

arising uponbonds taken while the compensation Was THZUUXTZD
STATZS
at three per cent. His claim has no relation to the
-ZT,.
amount bonded, but to the amount actually, received
upon the bonds taken prior to the last act.
Upon considering the question, therefore, upon the
construction of the act, I confine myself to the single
inquiry, how far -th6 government has exercised its
power, in reducing the compensatibn to the-defendant,
from three td? two and a half per cent?

The words-of the act, "arising on goods imported,"
although in themselves very indefinite jn point of time,
will receive a precise signification- in this respect, by
supplying the words "heret o fore,' to give them a past,
or "hereafter," to give them a future significationo, If
it be..necessary that the court should make an election.
between these words, in order to complete the sense,
'its choice will be immediately determined by recurring
to two well known rules of construction, viz. that it
ought to be consistent with the suggestions of natural
justice, and that the words should be taken most
strongly " contraproferentem.".
But there are other considerations, which will lead
to a conclusion, 'without supplying any supposed deficiency in the wording of the sentence. There is nothing,
either in the terms. made use of, or in -the professed
object of the law," necessarily retrospective ; but the
general intention of the act, as well as the signification
of the word arising, both p6int to a future operation.
Besides which, where it can be shown that a govern.
ment has once adopted a certain rule of justice for its
conduct, it is fair to infer, that in legislating afterwards
upon the same subject, it intended to pursue the same
rule, unless th'e contrary shall be clearly expressed ; and
in the act of March 3d, 1797, which iaries the compensatio. of the revenue officers, in several particulars,
that alteration is expressly restRicted to take effect only
with regard to future importations. I am of opinion,
that the defendant shall'have jvdgment.
VoL II.I.

3 G

410

Tu,STATES
UIzTED

V.

HETH.
.two

SUPREME COURT U. S.

WASHIRGTON, J. The point submitted by the circuit
court of Virginia t5 this court i4, whether the defendant, as collector, was restricted to a commission of

and a half per cent on any, or all of the monies

collected and received by. him, after the 30th June,
1800, on accounz of bonds previously taken for duties
arising on goods, &c. imported into' the United States.
The solution of this question must depend upon
another: does'the 2d section of the act of the 10th of
May, 1800, extend to duties which arose upon goods
imported before, and received after, the 30th of June in
that year, or is it to be restricted to duties arising on
goods which should be imported after that period ?
I am strongly'inclined to the opinion, that every
part of this section is future, find that a literal construction will render it entirely prospective upon the
wh6le subject. The time at which'the substitution of
two and a half for three per cent is to take place, as
well as that of collection and receipt, are certainly, fiture, and there is, I think, as little doubt that those
receipts can only apply to duties which should arise
after the same period, the word arising being clearly
future in relation to the time specified in the section.
The word imported, though past in relation to thb duties which were to arise on the goods imported, may,
nevertheless, be future in relation to the period wht n
the charge of commissions was to take effect, and I
think it ought to be so construed in this case, because
the duties arise either immediately upon the imporia.
tiot of the goods, or upon the performance of some
acts which, in contemplation of law, are immediately to
follow the importation.
This construction is, I think, considerably strengthened by a reference to former laws upon the same subject.
The act of March, 1797, is plain and express upon
this point, by fixing the commissions allowed by that
law to monies received on goods importedafter the last
day of that month. The 2d section of the act of March,
1799, was obviously intended to increase the commis-

FEBRUA1tY, 1806.

411

sions of some collectors, and to vary the relative corn- Tu- UN;rrnn
pensations which had been allowed to the several collectors bv the former law ; but there is no reason to
believe that it was intended to change the objects for
which this compensation to the collectorg generally was
to be allowed. Yet this law does not, in express terms,
confine the commissions to duties arising on goods
imported after the specified day, as had been dode in
the preceding act, but is worded, in this respect, precisely like the law immediately under consideration.
It is hardly to be imagined, that over and above the
increase of commissions allowed by the last law for
services after the 31st of March, to be wholly rendered, the legislature intended to increase the commissions
allowed by the act of 1797, for services which had been
in part performed before the 3lst of March, 1799,
without an expectation of such increase, and where
nothing remained to be done but to receive the money.
Yet this would be the case, if the increase be not restricted to goods imported after the specified day. The
change of expression in the latter law, I take to be
perfectly accidental; and, in construing one of them
by the other, both being in pari maieria, [ feel myself
constrained to read the latter as if it had been expressed
thus: 11That after the last day of March, 1799, there
shall be the following commissions allowed on all
monies received by the collectors respectively, on account of duties arising on goods, &c. imported into
the United States, after that day," &c.
The 2d section of the act of 1795 was clearly intended
to diminish the compensation of some, and to inctease
that of other collectors, and can, with as little reason
as in the former case, be construed to change the objects for which this compensation-was allowed. Such
a cbnstruction -would have the effect of raising the
compensation of some collectors, and depressing that
of others, for services partly performed at the same
time, and in'some instances, where those which remained to be done, in order to. consummate the right
to the commissions, were transferred from the collectors to the banks. This would, I think., be unrea-

S* ATrs
V.
HrT.

412

SUPREMF ,COURT U. S.

Tez U2ITZD sonable, and, in the instinces of diminished commisSTATES
sions, would be unjust.
V.
Hzra.

~

That the dervices performed preparptory to the collection or receipt of the duties, were considered, by the
legislature, as equal, at least, to the receiving of the
money, is proved by the 4th section of the law of 1799,
which provides, that whenever any collector should
die, or resign, the commissions to which he would.
have been entitled on the receipt of all duties by him
bonded, shall be equally divided between the collector
resigning, or the legal representatives of the deceased
collector, and his successor, whose duty it is made to
collect the same.
I cannot, therefore, consent to such ah interpretation
of this law, as to give it a retrospective operation, so
as to deprive an officer of a .compensation previously
allowed by law; for services admitted by'the legislature to deserve compensation, and to be in their nature
severable, from the ultimate act of the money-being
received or collected, provided those acts are in reality
performed.
My opinion is,. that the defendant is entitled to three
per. cent on all monies collected and received by
him, after the 30th June, 1800, on account of bonds
previously taken, for duties arising'on goods imported
into the United States.
PATERSON, j.
The basis of this action' is, ,the
statute of congress, of the l0th of May, 1800 and the

question is, whether the defendant is restricted io a commission of two and a half per cent, on monies collected and received after the 30th of June, 1800, by virtue of revenue bonds, executed previously to that date.
The words of the statute are, "that in lieu of the commission, heretofore allowed b ,law, there shall, from and
after the 30th of June next, be allowed to the collectors
ofAlexandria, Petersburgh, and -Richmond, respectively, two and a half per cent, on all monies which
shall be collected and rede'.ved by them, for and on account of the duties arising on goods, wares, and merchandis , imported into the United States, and on the

FEBRUARY, 1806.

413

tonnage of ships and vessels." The defendant was late TnU TZ
'A
collector of the customs, fd" the district of Petersburgh, in
HTa.
the state of Virginia. Words in a statute ought not to have
a retrospective operation, unless they are so clear, strong,
and imperative, that no other meaning can be annexed
to them,- or unless the intention of the legislature cannot
be otherwise satisfied. This rule ought especially to btr
adhered to, when such a construction will alter the preexistiug sitdation of parties, or 'will affect or interfere
with their antecedent rights, services, and remuneration ;
which is so obviopsly improper, that nothing ought to
uphold and-vindicate the interpretation, but the unLquivocal and inflexible import of the terms, and the manifest intention of the 'legislature. The word " arising"
refers to the present time or time-to come, but cannot,
with -any propriety, relate to time past, and embrace
former transactions. As to the word " importedl it
may comprehend the past or future, or both, according
to the subject mattet, and the words with which it is associated. Thus the word " a rising," coupled with the
words "on goods import.d," shows, that thewhole clause
has a futurd bearing and Aspect, and will _iot justly admit
of a retroactive construction. According to this view of
the subject; the commission of two and a half per
cert, is to be-restricted to monies received by the collector of Petersburgh, on account of the duties arising on
gools, wares, and merchandise, which shall be imported
after the 30th of June, when the act went into operation.
To fortify the' foregoing construction, it may be added,
,that the words of a statute, if dubious, ought, in cases
of the present kind, to be taken most str6ngly against the
law makers.
CUSHING, J. The question referred to this court by
the circdit court is, whether the defendant, as collector, by the act of the 10th of May, 1800, was restricted to a commission of two and a half per cent, o,
any or all of the monies collected and received by him,
after the 30th June, 1800, on account of bonds prevously
taken for duties arising on goods, wares, and merchandise, imported into the United States?

There was a prior act of congress entitling the defendant to three per cent, on all monies received on account

SUPREME COURT U. S.
T,, UbTZTZD of duties arising on goods imported into the United
States, within his district; which act was in full force
SAr, Ea
HaTIH.
m

during the time those duties arose, and until the subsequent act in question of the 10th of May, 1800, was
to come into operation, which was the 30th of June
following; and the question is upon bonds previously
taken for duties arising on goods imported before the
30th of June. Upon this question I am of opinion,
that the collector has a right to the three per cent
allowed by the former law, on all monies secured by
bonds previously taken as afor'esaid, for duties arising
on goods imported before the 30th of June, 1800; and
that he is not restricted by the latter law to two and a
half per cent. And that the general and true intent of
the latfer law was to make a new allowance in lieu of
the former only on duties arising.on goods imported
after the last law came into operation, and not to bay
a retrospective effect, to divest vested rights of th
collector; it being unreasonable, in my opinion, to give
the law a construction, which would have such a retrospective effect, unless it contained express words to that
purpose.
Whether the words "from and after the 30th of
June," are in the beginning, middle, or end of the sentence, the meaning, in this respect, appears to me the
same-to give the collectora new allowance on goods
imported after that time.
When the former duties were secured by bond,
laws, I thinik, consider them, as far as regards
collector's allowance, as collected and received;
principal services being already done by securing
duties by bond.

the
the
the
the

MARSHALL, C. J. being one of the judges whose
opinions were opposed in the court below, did not sit
at this hearing.

