SUPREME COURT U. S.
DoayNvs &
MORTON

V.
THEU-ITED
Sri. IES.

Mason, for the United States, suggested diminution
in this, that the writ was served on Dobynes and Morton, on the 20th of Febriuary, as appeared by the record
of the. district court ; and obtained a' certiorari.
But now, at this term, the return of the certiorarinot
showing anjy thin& more than what appeared on the first
transcript,
Breckenridge, attorney-general, adinitted that the
judgmeut could not be supported, as there was nothing
in the record by which the return of the marshal could
be amended, so as to show, that the writ had been executed fourteen days before ihe return day.
C. Lee, for the plaintiffs in error.
Judgment reversedp

HANNAY v. EVE.

HAxNNAT"
V.
EVE.

The cofirts
THIS was a writ of error to the circuit'court of the
of the United United, ,States, for the district of Georgia, sitting in
Stateswill not
enforce all a- chancerv, to reverse a detree which dismisstd the
greement en- complainant's bill on a demurrer.
tered into in

fraud of a law

T

cofr

The com lanant.as assignee ofCruden and Company,
States ; alalleged, in his bill, that on the 24th of December,
thoigh that 1782, during the war between, the United States and
agreement
Great-Britain, the British armed ship Dawes, owned
wwL; made between per- by Crudcn-andCompany, who were British subjects,
sons who
and commanded by Oswel Eve, the defendant, sailed
were then e- with a cargo, the property of Crudenand Company, from
nemies of the Kingston, in Jamaica, for New-York, then in possesUnited States, .aaca
N~
and the object sion of the British troops. That on her passage the
of the agree- ship met with much tempestuous weather, by which
straent a meeo she was rendered incapable of reaching her port of desof....ited'

NwAr.

tination ; in consequence of which, the defendant, after

FEBRUARY, 1806.

243

eon~ultatcn with the crew and passengers, came to the

determination to sail for the nearest port in the United States, "therebv to save the lives of the crew
and passdngers, which were in iemminent danger, and
also to save as much as possible to the owners.

I[AA-

V.
Evr.

'hedutyof

That a mastLr of a

the-vessel and cargo were liable to be captured by the vessel, to hir
ctuisers of the United States; or ifshe went into any owners, wilt
ntobligehim
et
h
e
r
-jort of the United States, vithout being captured, she to violate the
would become a droit of admiralty to the United States, good. fdith;
an
or some of them. That the defendant stated to the •eve
eneniy,of in
oecrew and p:ssengers, that as congress, by their resolve dee to reof the 9th of Decenber, 17 1, had enacted and de- servthisship,
dared, " That' all ships and vessels, with their cargoes, nor to employ
orefiecder to-in
which should be seized by the respective crews thereof, fratid,
,should be deemed and adjudged as lawful prize to the that ohjct.
captors,"as the vessel was incapable of reaching NewYork, and as she Would be totqlly lost to the uwners,
tp himself, and the crew, if captured by the cruisers of
the United Stateg, the best mpde would be, to seize
and capture the vessel and cargo, make the passengers,
who were military men of high rank attd distinction,
prisoners of war, and sail for the nearest port, and
there obtain a condemnation of the vessel and cargo,
for the benefit and compen-ation of the- crew, who
would lose their wag.s, if she was i'egularly captured,
and that the residue should remain in the d,'endantes
hands, as agent and trustee, and for die sole use and
benefit, of the owners. That this plan was agreed to,
and executed; and an agreement, signed by the de-fendant and the crew, ascertaining what share each man
was to be allowed, and which was to be. the basis of
the judge's decree, as to the distribution of the prize
money. That the crew consented to the defendant's
having a larger share than they would, if he had not
declared his intention to act in the whule, as the agent
and trustee, and for the benefit of the owners. That
the vessel was accordingly carried into a port in NorthCarolina, libelled, condemned, and distribution made,
according to the proportion fixed by the agreement.
That the defendant afterwards purchased a number of
the shares of the seamen, for the benefit of his Qwners;
that he also purchased part of the cargo, at the marshal's sales, and shipped it to Charleston, where he
-§old it to great profit, for the benefit of the owners.

SURI'IEI
HlANNAY
V.

E.VE.

COURT U. S.

The bill then prays a discovery, and that the defendant
may account, and be decreed to pay, &c.
To this bill the defendant demurred, and assigned
two causes of demurrer.
1. That it appears- by the complainant's own showing, that the ship and cargo were regularly condemned
under the resolve of congress, of the 9th of December,
1781, as lawful prize, and the proceeds decreed to the
defendant, 4nd others, as lawful captors, the legality
of which decree ought not now to be called in question.
2. That the bill contains no matter of equity, but
what is cognizable at law.
Upon argument, the judge (Stephens) sustained the
demurrer, anddismissed the bill, but without costs.

P. B. Key, for the plaintiff in error. The lirincipal
question is, whether the complainant has equity.
If Eve had given up the ship for his own benefit)
it would bave been an aft of barratry, a breach of
trust, and the owners would have had a right of action
at law against him for his misfeasance. But they
may, if they please, affirm his surrender of the vessel4
and oblige the defendant to account.
If there is any impediment to the relief sought, it
must be grotinded on the resolve of congress; for, if
the owners had a right of action at law, it was saved by
.the treaty of peace.

The master was always under a moral obligation to
account, whatever protection he might derive from the
resolve of congress, which gave the whole ship and
cargo as prize. There being then a moral obligation,
sufficient to support a promise, so as to prevent it from
being nudum pactum, and an express promise charged
in the bill, and confessed by the demurrer, there it
nothing wanting 'to entitle the complainant to the relief
he asks. It is true, that the promise was made to the
erew, yet it enures to the benefit of the owners. Should

FEBRUARY,

1806.

245

it be said that the promise was in fraudem legis, the
answer is, that it was a stratageemof war, and, therefore,
justifiable. Inforo conscientihc, it Was as justifiable to
evade ,as to enforce such a law; and if it was a fraud
against the law of congress to receive the proceeds of
the ship and cargo, for the use of the owners, it was
equally .a fraud against the owners, to persuade the
-rew to catry the vessel into a port of the United
States, under a pretence of saving the property to the
owners, and afterwards to take the whole proceeds to
his own use.
"Harper, contra. The ordinance of congress of 4th
December, 1781, (7 vol.journals of congress, p. 243)
it is .true, authorised mutiny and treachery, but it was
only a law of retaliation. The British had adopted a
similar provision; and congress found it necessary to
retaliate.
The facts stated by the complainant, in his bill, are
such as show the necessity of delivering up the vessel,
-and that she was absolutely lost to the owners.
The bill states expressly, that she was incapable of
.reaching her port of destination ; that she must either
founder or be captured, or voluntarily run into an enemy's port. It justifies. the conduct of the master, in
,giving up the vessel, but grounds its claim to relief,
,either upon a supposed moral obligation of the defendant, (resulting from his duty, as master of the vessel)
,to do every thing in his power for the benefit of the
owners ; or upon an express promise made to the crew,
which, it*is contended, en-es to the benefit of the
.owners; or upon an allegation of an imposition upon
the crew, to induce them to consent to dcliver up the
vessel.
As to the first ground, the master's duty did not oblige
him to violate the liws of another country, especially of
that country to whose laws he applied for protection
and. relief. His duty to his owners ceased, when -he
could rio longer lireserve the property by fair and ho2iourable means. His duty could never oblige him to commit a -fraudupon the good faith even of an enemy.

HA..r
EvzL

,46
HVAN.AY
EVE.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The second ground is that of an express lrkomise to the
crew. This is liable to three o' jections. 1st. 'that it is
a promise without consideration, and, theretore, nudum
Pactum. 2d. That i, is not made to the owners-and,
3d. That' it was infraudcm legis.
The third ground of claim is that of imposition upon
the crew, to induce them to give up the vessel.
l'his, if
it can be the ground of claim by any person, must be that
of a claim by the crew, or some of them, to set aside the
agreement for the division of the prize-money, and cannot'be a ground of claim by the complainant. It is also
liable to the objection, that the courts of the United States
can never san'ction a claim, grounded upon a fraud upon
the laws of the United States.,
The owners, by arming the transaction, and calling
upon the defendaiit to account, have made themselves a
party to the fraud ; and the maxim of law applies, inpari
delictu melior est conditio possidentis.
To show the extent of the princilple, that contracts in
fraudem legis were void, he referre d the court to the following authorities. Plowden's Commentaries, 75. 1 Domat, 145. 2 Bac. Ab. 582. ,Cowper, 39, 34,3. 1 T. P,.
734. 1 Atk. 352. 2 Atk. 1.:6. Buller, 14. 2 P. Williams,
134, 347, 350. 3 T. R. 454.

Ley, in reply. The foundation of this bill is the original trust, before the agreement with the crew.. It was
a violation of that trust to give up the ship. The defendant was bound to do all in his power to protect the property. If he has been guilty of a fraud upon the United'
States, the owners were not a party. The fraud of which
the plaintiff complains is, that the defendant induced the
crew to give up the ship, under the idea of doing it for the'
benefit of the owners, and then turning round, and pleading the resolve of congress against the claim of the
owners.
But if that resolve was a bar, a subsequent acknowledgment of the original trust, and a promise to account, will
again set it up.

FEBRUARY, 18o
.Februarzi13.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the

court.

The essential difficulty in this cause, arises from the
consideration, that under the. resolution of congress, by
which the vessel and cargo mentioned in the proceedings
were condemned, a sanction is claimged to a breach of
trust, and a violation of moral principle. In such a case,
the mind submits reluctantlv.to the rule of law, and laboriously searches for something whith shall retoncile that
rule with what would seem to be the dictate of abstract
justice.
It has been correctly argued by the plaintiff in error,
that the captain was under obligations to the owners, from
which, in a moral pbint of view, he could not be completely absolved. He was bound to save for them the
ship and cargo by all fair means within his power; but he
was no. bound to employ fraud in order to effect the object. The situation of the vessel unquestionably justified
her being carried into the, the port of an enemy, and,
perhaps, in the courts of England, the libelling of the
vessel, by the captain and crew, might be construed to be
an act which would enure solely to the benefit of the owners ; but war certainly gives the right to annoy an enemy
by 'means such as those which were employed by congress, and courts are bound to consider them as legitimate, and to leave to them their full operation.
The agreement to save the ship and cargo, under the
semblance of a condemnation, was not, in itself, an immbral act ; it was, as has been truly said, a stratagem
-which the laws of war would authorise, but it was certainly a fraud upon the resolution of congress, and no
principle can be more clear, than that the courts of the
United States can furnish no aid in giving efficacy to it.
Congress having a perfect right, in a state of open war,
to tempt the navigators of enemy-vessels to bring them
into the American ports, by making the vessel and cargo
pr:ze to tlie captors, the condemnation of a vessel so
brought in amounted necess'arily to an absolute transfer
of the property, and to a complete annihilation, in a It gal
point of view, of the title of the owners, and of their

HAujA~y
V.
Evz.

249
H-NXAY

v.

SUPREME COURT V. S.

claim upon the captain'. Had, no cbmmunication taken
place between the captain and his crew, whereby a portion
of the prize-money was allotted to him in trust for the
bwners, which would not have been allotted to himas a
captor, in virtue of his station in the vessel, it would have
been a plain case of prize under the resoluti6n of con.
gress, and any intention under which the capture was
made, whether declared or not, swould have been, like
other acts of the will, controulable and alterable by the
pers,ons who had entertained it. But if, by a contract
with the crew, stipulating certain advantages for the
owners of the ship and cargo, the vessdl has been carried
in when she would not otherwise have been carried in, or
a larger proportion of the prize has been allowed to the
captain thfin would have been allowed to him for his own
use, a plain fraud has been committed by him, and the
question, whether-the trust which he assumed upon- himself, and under which he obtained possession*of the pro.
perty, can be enforced -in this court, is one'of more difficulty, upon which a difference of opinion has prqvailed.
It -has been thought by some -of the judges, that the
contract being in itself compatible with the strictest rules
of morality, and being opposed by only a temporary and
war regulation, which exists no longer, may now be enforced. But upon more matqre consideration, the ma.
jority of the judges accede to the opinion, that the con.
tract being clearly in fraud of the law, as existing at
the timl, a law to which, under the circumstances at.
tending it, no just exceptions can be taken, its execution
cAnnot be compelled by the courts of that Country, to
evade whose laws it was made. The person in possessioh
must he left in possession of that which the decree of a
e6mpetent tribunal has given him.
This opinion seems completely to decide the point
made under the treaty of peace. According to it, a debt
never existed to which the treaty could apply. ' No debt
was due from the captain to his owners, but iri virtue of
the confiscation of the ship and cargo, and it has never
been alleged, that the treaty extended to calptures made
during the Nyar, of property in the actual ossession of
the enemy, whatever might be the means employed in
making them.

