SUPREME COURT V. S.
Sax"AW.
5RDG,

-

Av.
C.

RTISS

AT

terests, and some of those parties are, and others are
not, competent to sue, or liable to be sued, in the courts
of the United States.

AL,

Decree affirmed.

GORDON v.CALDCLEUGH ET AL.

GOnoavo
V.
CALIOLE UG11
ZT AL.

.v-../

THIS was a writ of error to the judges of the cour4
f equity of the state of South Carolina, holden in ant(
not juris
e qut-fo
r'
tion upon a for the easterndistrict of the said state.
Thiscourthas

o

writ of error

to a tateunder"
court,

James Gordon, " of the city of Charleston, in 'the
the 25th see- state aforesaid," filed a bill in equity against Cald.
tion of the ju- cleugh and Boyd, $of London, in the kingdom of
diciary act of Great Britain," William Muir, " of Hamburgh," and
1789,
decision ifofthe John Gillespie, George M'Kay, and Joseph Reid,
thestate Court whose irsidence is not mentioned in the bill. At the
be in favour return of the subpmna, Caldcleugh, Boyd and Reid, apof the privi- peared and filed, a petition, stating themselves to be
lege clai
ae d an'ie.
eiin
taigtesle
ob
under an act aliens, and subjects of the king of Great Britain, and that
of congress. the complainant wvas a citizen of the state of South
Carolina, and praying that the cause might be rem6ved
to the circuit court of the United, according to the 12th
section of the judiciary act of 1789. To which petition,
Gordon, the complainant, answered, that the prayer
thereof ought not to be granted,'because Gillespie and
M'Kay, two of the defendants, were citizens of the
state of South Carolina. But the court, " after observ.
ing that the parties defendants to the suit, residin in
this state, were stakeholders, and not materially concerned in the determination of the cause, ordered that it be
transferred to the iuderal courti agreeable to the prayer
of the petition."
The complainant immediately, in the same court,
assigned errors, in the following form : " Whereupon
the said James Gordon, comes and says, that in the

FEBRUARY, 1806.

giving of the final judgment, in the cause aforesaid,
upon the construction Of the 12th clause or section of
the statute of the United States, entitled an act to
establish the judicial courts of the United States,
passed the 24tb day of September, 1789, and 2d section of the 3d artidle of the constitution of the United States, and the 12th article of the amendment of the
constitution, there is manifest error in this, to wit,
that the judgment aforesaid was given in form aforesaid, for the said Caldcleugh, Boyd and Reid, upon
their petition, for the removal of the said cause for trial,
into the circuit court of the United States, to be held
for the district of South Carolina, whereas judgment
should have been given for the said James Gordon,
against the removal aforegaid, and this he is ready to
Verify."
Caldcleugh, Boyd, and Reid joined in error; and
thus the case came up.
The writ of error did not state, that the court of
equity, of the state of South Carolina, to the judges of
which it was directed, was " the highest court of e9 'ui.
ty, of the state in which a decision inthe suit could be
had," so as to bring the case within the provisions of
the 25th sectibn of the judiciary act of 1789, noi did
that fact in any other wanner appear.
E.

7.

Lee, for plaintiffs in error.
February13.

MARSHALL, Ch. J. after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

This courthas no jurisdiction, under the 25th section
of the judiciary act of 1789, but in a case where a
final judgment or decree has been rendered in the highest court of law or equity of a state, in which a decision in the suit could be had, where is drawn in question, the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under the United States, and the decision is againvt their validity, &c. or where is drawn
in question, the construction of any clause of the constitution, or of a treaty, or statute of, or commission

Goano..
V.
ctruoa
ET AL.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
GoRDON
V.
'CALDpLZUGH

,.T AL.

held under the United States, and the, decisipi il
against the title, right, privilege or exemption, spe.
cially set up or claimed by eith6r party, under such
clause of the said constitution, treaty, statute or com.
mission.
In the present case, such of the defendants as were
aliens, filed a petition to remove the cause to the federal circuit court, under the 12th section of the same
act. The state court granted the prayer of the petition, and ordered the cause to be removed ; the decision, therefore, was not against the privilege claimed
under the statute ; and, therefore, this court has no
jurisdiction in the case,
The writ of error must be dismissed,

WzFZRAW
V.
TAYLORAND
MASSIE.

M'FERRAN v. TAYLOR AND MASSIE,

He who sells
ERROR, to a decree of the district court of the dis'-roperty on-a trict of Kentucky, in chancery.
description
gi, en by him-

self,isbound M'Ferran in his bill alleged that on the 19th of March,
in' equity to 1784, the defendant, Taylor, for a valuable consideration,
executed his bond to the complainant, for the conveyance
make good
tion ; pd ifof 200 acres of land out of 1,000 acres located by him on
it be untrue Hingston, or out of 5,000 acres which Taylor then hadt
izq a material for location. The condition of the bond was as follows :
point, al"that if the said Richard Taylor, his heirs &c. shall wevl
,tbough the
variance be and truly make, or cause to be ina Ie, to the said Martin
occasioned by M'Ferrhn, his heirs or assignp, a good sufficient title in
mistake, he fee simple to two hundred acres of land in the county of
must still re- Kentucky, out of 1,000 acre tract, located by the said
main liable

:Forthat va- Richard Taylor on Hingston'sforh bfLicing,; or 200
riance.
acres out of 5,000, which the said Taylor has now for
Qnere, if
location, provided he obtain the same, at such part or
the mistake
he amatter place thereof, as the said M'Ferran shall choose, not tQ
tiermed per- exceed more than twice the breadth in length thereof, so
fectly imma-

soon as the lands can, in any degree of safety, be sur-

