FEBRUARY, 1805.

73

of two years; when prevented too by a cause not within HuxDzxo.
his controul, and against which the state was bound to "1's LESSZ1
protect him. If such were the case now before the court. DourLASS.
I should be of 6pinion that we must resort to general
principles for a deision. With regard to the performance
of conditions, it is a well known rule, that obstructions
interposed by the act of God, or a public enemy, shall
excuse from performance, so far as the effect of such preventing cause necessarily extends.
in cases of partial prevention, I should tberdfore be of
opinion, that it would be incumbent upon the warrantee
to satisfy thie cpurt that he had complied with the conditions imposed by the act, so far as he was not necessarily
prevented by the public enemy.
It may appear singular that a deficiency, of a single
-day perhaps, should produce so material an alteration in
the rights or situation of the warrantee. But the legislature of Pennsylvania were fully competent to make what
statutory provisions they thought proper upon the subject ; and the court is no further responsible for the effect
of the words which they have used to express their intent, than to endeavour to give a sensible and consistent
operation to them in every case that can occur.

THE UNITED STATES v. HOOE, ET AL.*

TurnUmvz
STATRS

Saturday, February23.

' V. AnD
Hooz,
oTHzRs.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co- The United
lumbia.
States have
no

lien on the
real estate or

Mjifason, attorney of the United States for that district, their debtor
on the I 7th of August, 1801, filed a bill in equity against rut sirt
Robert T. Hooe, W. Herbert, 7ohn C. Herbei,and the rought orin.
executors, widow and heirsof Col 7ohn Fitzgerald late solvency or

coll-ctor of the customs for the port of Alexandria, and bankruptcy
taken
obtained an injunction to prevent the sale of certain real has
place; or, be.

ing unable to
*Present, Marhall, Chief Justice.-Cuaing aterion, Wtraing. pay all hit
debts, he hbi
-toi and .7ohnson, Justices.
L
Vol. m.

SUPREME COURT V. S.

.

estate in Alexandria, adi;ertised for sale by W. and J. C.
Herbert, under a deed of trust made by Fitzgerald for
'the indemnification of Hooe,

\Tha

material facts appdaring uVoii the record are, that

TEE UZT*-t
.STATES

made
a volun- Fitzgerald, upon being appointed collector, executed a
tary as
s bond to the United States, on the 10th of April, 1794,
mento
property; or with Hooe as surety, in the penalty of 10,000 dollars,

the debtor-ha- for the faithful performance of the duties of his office. In
ving abscond- April, 1798, he was found to be greatly in arrears, and
#d, concealed,

or absented

upon a final adjustment of his accounts, on' the 1 5th of

himself, his August, 1799, the balance against him wa 57,t57 dolproperty has lars. On the 16th of January, 1799, Hoop having knowben attached ledge that Fitzgerald was largely indebted to the Unitid
by process of
States, but believing that he had sufficient property to
law.
A mortgage discharge the debt, and Fitzgerald being desirous of borof party nade
his rowing money from the bank of Alexandria to.meet the
property
other
by a collector drafts of the treasury of the United States, and for
of the rey_ purposesi made a deed of trust to W. and J. C. Herbert,
nue to his reciting that Hooe had become surety for Fitigerald, in
surety in his the bond to the UnitediStates, and Fitzgerald propqsing,
official bond when he should wish to obtdin a loan of money from the'
to indemnif
him from his bank of Alexandria, to draw notes to be indorsed by
responsibility -looe, whereby the. latter might be liable'and compelled
as surety on to pay the same, and the former being desirous of securthe bond, and
also to secure ing and indemnifying -ooe from all damages, costs and
him frotn his charges which he might at any time thereafter be subject
existing and and liable to'by reason of any misconduct of Fitzgerald

future in.

h

ca

in the discharge of his duty as collector, or for' or on acdorsemeits
.or the Mort- count of any notes drawn by him for his particular use
rat bank, and accommodation, and indorsed b7 Hooe, and negdo-

tiated at the bank of Alexandria. The indenture then
witnessed, that for those purposes, and in consideration
of the trusts and confidences therein after exprisseiI, &c.
and of one dollar, &c. Fitzgerald bargained and sold, &c.
to the trustees,
vV. md ,J. C. Herbert, the real estate
_
..
therein described, to have and to hold the same to them
pay all his
debts at the and the survivor of them, &c. "in trust, to and for the
timthemo~rt- uses and purposes herein after mentioned, and to and for
i aida-

gaist the v-,
nited States,
although it
turns
out that
the collector
.as un.le.
iv~as unable to

sage was giv.
en, and at- no other use and purpose whatsoever; that is to say, in
case he the said John Fitzgerald shall neglect any part of
th6ugh the
his duty as collector of the said port of*Alexandria," &c.
mortgagee
_new at the " or in case any note or notes so drawn, indorsed'and netime of taking

the mortgage gotiatwd at the bank of Alexandria, for the particular use

FEBRUARY, 1805.

7s

iand accommodation of him, the said John Fitzgerald,
shall not be taken up and discharged by him when the
same shall become payable; that in either case, as soon
as any demand shall bi'made upon him, the said R. T.
Hooe," &c. " for the payment of any sum or sumn of
money which ought to be paid by the said John Fitz-gerald," Kc. then the trustees should, upon notice given
them by Hooe, of such demaxid, proceed to sell the property for ready money, and after paving the expenses of
sale, should pay and satisfy the
. ..sum or sums of. money so.
;)
demanded of Hooe, either as security for Fitzgeraldq
due and faithful execution .ofthe office of collector of the
said port of Alexandria, or as indorsof of any note or
notes so drawn by Fitzgerild, " and negotiated at the
bank of Alexandria for the particular accommodation of
the said John Fitzgerald ;" apd lastly, to pay over to
him tfie surplus. And in further trust that if Fitzgerald
should duly keep Hooe indemnified, &c. and should duly
pay the several notes which should be io drawn hy him
and indorsed by Hooe, and negotiated at the said bank,
"for the particular accommodation of him, thesaid John
Fitzgerald, as the same shall become paTable," then thp
trustees should reconvey, &c.
Hooe had indorsed Fitzgerald's notes at the bank to a
large amount, and at the time of his death there were
unpaid two notes of 1000 dollars each, and one of 1800
'dollars, one of which for 1000 dollars, together with inteiest upon the -whole, -amounting to 288 dollars'and 94
cents, was afterwards paid by Mr. Keith, one of the executdrs, in order to prevent a sale of the property under
the trust. There was also evidence tending to show that
the money borrovsed from the bank upon Hooe's indorsement, was applied in discharge of warrants drawn
by the-treasury upon Fitzgerald.
Fitzgerald died in December, 1799, havingby his will
directed his real estate to be sold for the payment of his
debts. There was no positive evidence of his insolvency.
The bill charged that he died insolvent, an~d that the
United States had a right, in preference to all others, to
apply his"property to. the discharge of the debt, and if
there should be a deficiency, to resort to the surety for
tbhe balance, as far as the penalty of the bond would jus-

TU.'d*a
STATES

Hoo'

A?1

a mans.

that the mort.
ggor was
debte t the
United States,
aren
Cots
to b
be awardedg
a wnst" the
untedsta.es.

76
THEUNUTED
STATES
V.•
MOOE AND

1

Orri-as.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

tify; and'tiiatdse deed of trust was fraudulent as to the
•
United States.

On the 1st of May, 1802, the injunction was dissolved
by consent, and an interlocutory decree entered, ordering
the trustees to pay the proceeds of the sale into court, sub,
ject to future order, touching the contending claims of
the United States and Hooe.
At November term, 180,, the coutt passed the following decree:
"The objects of the bill filed inthis cause were to set
aside a deed executed on the 16th of January, 1799, by
John Fitzgerald to William Herbert and John Carlyle
Ilerbert, conveying certain property therein mentioned,
in trust, for tAe purpose of indemnifying Robert Townsend Hooe as indorsor of certain notes negotiable. in the
bank of Alexandria, and as surety of John. Fitzgerald in
his 'office of collector of the port of Alexandria; to oblige
-the said trustees to -accoufit with the United States for
'the said real property, and to compel the executors to account for the personal-estate of the said John Fitzgerald,
and to pay the same to the United Statei towards the discharge of the balance due from him ; and further to restrain and enjoin the said trustees from making sale of
the said real property."
- An injunction for the said purpose Was
,granted by
one ot the judges of this court, in vacation ; and afterwards, viz. at April term, 1802, after the appeaiance .of the defendants, who were.of full age, an
agreement was made, -and entered on the records and
proceedings of this court, to the followilig effect, viz,
that so much of the former order of this court, as" restrained the defendants, W. Herbert and John C,
Herbert, from selling the property iithe deed of trust,
in the bill mentioned, be discharged; and it was
further decreed and ordered, that the said tustees
should pay the proceeds arising from the sale of the
said property, or of any part thereof, into this c6urt,
subject to the future order of the court, touching the'
contending claims of the Uiited States, and'of R.T.
Hooe, one of the defendants to the said bill ; and
%ow0,at November term, 1802, the s;id cause came

FEBRUARY, 1805.

77

afn by-consent of parties, and by order of the court, TuEU.'Tzn,
on the bill, andon the answers of the defendants,
ST1lES
V.
(thoie of the infants being taken by their guardians, HooE AzD

appointed for that purpose) and on the exhibits in the
said bill and answers referred to, and on those afterwards admitted, and the arguments of counsel. being
heard in the said cause, and the same being by the
court fully considered; it is the ogfinion of the court,
that the deed of trust, in the said bill mentioned, was
made bonafide, and for a valuable consideration, and
was fairly executed by the said John Pitzgerald, to indemnify, and save harmless, the said R. T. Hooe,
from all loss and damage, by reason of his indorse.
ment.of several notes, negotiated at the bank of Alexandria, amounting to the sum of 3,800 dollars, to enable the said John Fitzgerald to pay that sum to the
United States ; whith appears to have been paid accordingly ; and also, to indemnify and save harmless,
the said R. T. Hooe, against all loss and damage, by
reason of his .having become bound in a bond, in the
penalty of 10,000 dollars, payable to the United States,
as secdrity for the said John Fitzgerald's faithful. performance and due discharge of the office of collector of the customs, in the district of Alexandria.
-That there does, not appear to have been any fraud in
the said parties, or either of them, and that the said
deed is not invalidated by any law of the United States.
It is.thereupon, by this court decreed and oidered,
that the bill in this cause, as to all the- defendants, except R. T. Hooe, W. Herbert, and J. C. Herbert,
be retained for t' - further order and decree of this
court, and that as to the said defendants, R. T. Hooe,
W. Herbert, and J. C. Herbert, the said bill be dismissed with co&ts to tie said defendants. And as
to the money which has arisen from the sale of the
said real property, the net amount of which is 14,318
dollars and 66 cents, after deducting the charges of
the sale, and which has been, by the order of this
court, deposited by the clerk thereof, in the bank of
Alexandria; this court doth decree and "rder, that
the said clerk do pay the sum of 4,318 dollars and 66
cents, part thereof, to the said trustees, XV. Herbert
and J. C. Herbert, to be by them applied to the dis-

oTuzE*.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TERUNITED
STATES
V.

Hoon Am)OTHzns.

charge of the sum of 3,127 dollars, due upon certain
notes negotiated in the bank of Alexandria, on which
the said R. T. Hooe was an indorsor for the said John

Fitzgerald ; and also to the repayment to the execu.
tors of the said John-Fitzgerald, of the sum of 1,145
dollars, advanced and paid by them to the bank of
Alexandria, for, and on behalf of the said R. T'.
Hooe, in part pa))ment of the notes negotiated in the
said bank, for the said John Fitzgerald, and indQrsed

by the said R. T. Hooe, which, it was intended, the
said R. T. Hooe should be indemnified against,, by the
said deed; and the residue, if any there should
be, of the said sum of 4,318 dollars and 66 cents, to

be paid by the said clerA into the treasury of the United
States, in discharge of so much of the balance due
from the estate of the said John Fitzgerald; and that
as to the residue of the- proceeds of-the said sale,
being the sum of 10,06o dollars, the said clerk do pay

the same into the treasury of the United States, expressly in discharge of the said sum of 10,000 dollars,
for which the said R. T. Hooe is bound in the bond,
which, in-the said bill and answers is referred to, and
to go also in discharge of so much of the Plaim of the
United States against the said John Fitzgerald, and
the same is decreed and orderedaccordingly.
To reverse 'this decree, a writ of error issued returnable to February term, 1803, which was dismissed
for want of a statemelit of the facts upon which the
decree was foundcd.*
The ,November term, 1802, of the circuit court,
at which the original decree was enteied, being continued by adjournment, to April, 1803. Mason, af,
ter the dismission of the writ of error, moved the
court below, to make a statement of the facts upon
which the decree Ias founded, to be sent up witH a new
writ of error ; and urged, that as it was, in comtempla.
tion of law, the same term in which the decree was
made, it was competent for the court to open it for
that purpose. But the court, being of opinion, that
bv the writ of error the record was completely re.
See Antf 'Col. I.p. 318.

FEBRUARY. 1805.
moved, and the decree thereby made absolute, refused TuzUITzD
STATE.
to make the statement.
Hooz A?.-n

A new writ of error was sued out by the United
States, returnable to February term, 1804,; upon the
return of w,ikhi
Swann, for defendants in error,
Contended, that the late act of congress, of 3d
March, 1803, vol. 6, p. 315, c. 93, § 2, did not apply
to this case, because it was passed after the final decree rendered; and that the court was still precluded
from looking into this case, and correcting the errors
in the decree, if any such existed, without a statement of the facts upon which the decree was founded;
but,
By the court. The words of the act are, "that
from all fihal judgments or decrees; rendered, or to be
rendered, in any circuit court," "in any cases of equity," &c. " an appeal shall be allowed," "subject to the
same rules, regulations and restrictions, as are prescribed in case of writ of error."
A perfect analogy exists between the cases of appeals and of writs of error, as to the time in which
they may be granted, and the judge, who can grant
the one, may allow the other. The act of congress
comprehends past cases as well as future.
The causp was continued for argument, and at this
term, was argued by Mason, for the United States,
and by C. Lee and Swann, for the defendants in error.
Mason, after observing that the evidence did .not
support the allegation, that the money borrowed of
the bank, upon Hooe's indorsements, was applied to
the use of the United States, conteqded,
1. That the deed was fraudulent, as to all the world,
because it empowered Fitzgerald to borrow money

oTrzus.

SUPREME COURT L. S.
TirFUxTED

STTS

upon it for his own use, while ii protected the property

from his creditors.

V.

Ho0E AND

,ERas.

'

2. That Hooe has no preference to the United States;
even if the deed was not fraudulent, as to all the
world, yet Hooe stands in such a situation, that he
must be postponed to the United States and all other
creditors.

-and

1. Hooe admits, that he had notice of Fitzgerald's
default, to at least the amount of 30,000 dollars, but
the exact amount is unimportant. And although, in his
answer, he gives an opinion as to the value of Fitzgerald's estate, at the date of the deed, yet he ad.
nuits, that such as it then was, ,it now is, -excepting any
depreciation which it may have suffered.
The deed, inasmuch as it contains a power to raise
money upon it, in future, for his own use, is a deed
in ti'ust for himself, and therefore fraudulent upon
general principles of law. His power to borrow money
upon it, is unlimited by any thing but the value of the
property and the good will of Hooe; and the money
thus raised upon it might have been applied exclusively
to his own uge ."
The words of the statute of 13 Eliz. c. 5, which
have, in -substance, been inserted into the Virginia
code of laws, are large enough to take in this case ;
and the cases decided under it clearly apply to the
present deed. Indeed, that part of the statute which
makes such deeds void as to creditors, is no more
than a declaration of the pre-existing rule of the common law. 2 Bac. Ab. Tit. Fraud. 2 Com. Dig. Ti.
Covin.
The 5th sign of fraud mentioned in Twyne's case,
3 Co. 81. (b) is, that there " was a trust between the
parties; for the donor possessed all, and used them
as his proper goods, and fraud is always apparelled
and clad with a trust, and a trust is the cover of
fraud." And it is utiimportant whether the trust be
expressed or implied. Every gift made on a trust is
out f the proviso of the act.. Here it was part of

PEBRUARY, 180S.

81

the trust that Fitzgerald should raise money upon the TnEU.IxTZD
STATX3
V.
deed to his own use ; and a deed which covers the
property from his, creditors, and gives the grantor the Hoo A D
whole benefit and use of it, is the very kind of deed oitza3.
which the statute meant to avoid. If, then, the deed is '-'Y-d
void as to creditors, Fitzgerald is dead, and the United
States must be. preferred in payment.
2. Hooe -annot bi preferred to the United States,
in consequence of this deed, even supposing it not to
be fraudulent under the statute of Elizabeth, but must
be postponed to the United States, and all other creditors.

This case stands on the same ground as a bond'.giv.
en for duties, in which case it is enacted by the act of
4th of August, 1790, c.' 35, § 45, vol. 1, p.

221, that

in all cases of insolvency, or where any estate in the
hands of executors or administrators shall be insufficient to pay all the debts due from the deceased,
the debt due to the United States, on any such bond,
shall be first satisfied." The insolvency here mentioned, means an inability to pay all his debts, and is
"

so expounded by the act of 2d of Mlay, 1792, c. 27,
§ 18, vol. 2, p. 79, in which it is " declared that the

cases of insolvency in the said 44th" (4sth) 11 section mentioned, shall be deemed to exttnd as well
to cases in which a debtor, not having sufficient property to pay all his or her debts, shall have made a
voluntary assignment therrof, for the benefit of his
or her creditors, or in which the estate and effects of
an absconding, concealed, or absent debtor, shall have
been attached by process of law, as to cases in which
an act of legal bankruptcy shall have been committed."
A voluntary assignment, for the benefit of his creditors, made by a debtor, unable to pay'all his debts, is
one of the cases in which the United States are to.
have a preference. 'I he word ,1 voluntarn" does no
mean without consideration, but without compulsion of
law, as in cases under a bankrupt law. A deed made
to secure a just debt may, in this sense of the word,
be a voluntary deed of assignment. The instant a man
Vo l. IM.
M

92
Tm'HuNXE,
STATES
V.

HoOE ANDu
OTHERS.
i/vol.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

makes such a voluntary assignment, the preference of
the United States attaches, if, upon subsequent in,
quiry, it shall" appear tLat he is unable to pay all his
65,
debts. The act of 2d of March, 1799, c. 128,
4, p. 387, has the same words, explanatory .of the

term insolvency, with those, of the 18th ! of tle 'act,
1792, vol. 2, p. 79. The legislature did not mean to
c6nfine it to cases of insolvency, under a bankrupt or
insolvent law of any of the states, or of the United
States, nor to voluntary conveyances of all the. property
of a debtor, for the benefit of his creditors.
,In the present case, all the property repmains in the
same state in which it was at the time of the deed,
and it is not contended that it is sufficient to pay all
the debts ; for if it is, Hooe an receive no injury ;
but if it is, insufficient, then he can derive no benefit,
until the United States are first satisfied.'
We do not contend that the United States had a lien
upon the property. That is a distinct question, and has
been decided by this court, at the present term, in the
case of UnitedStates v. Fisher, et at.
But it is right that the interest of all should prevail
over that of an individual.
We admit that Fitzgerald had the right to sell and
alien the property, but it does not follow that he could,
'by a mortgage, or an assignment, prefer a particular
creditor to the United States.
The object of the legislature was, that if a inan is unable to pay all his debts, and attempts to give a particular preference, his hand shall be stopped, until the
debt due to the United States shall be satisfied. If it
turns out that he.was actually insolvent, the United
States, and not the individual creditor, shall have the
preference.
The object of the deed is, that if Fitzgerald's estate
should be insufficient to pay all his debts, Hood shall
be preferred.

FEBRUARY, .1805.

83

But the act of congress says that, in that event, the TuzUwrSO
United States'shall be preferred. -The deed and the STATES
act are inconsistentwith each other, and the deed mdst Hooz A.O
yield to the act.

Among individual creditors, he had a right to prefer one over another, and such deeds would have been
effectual, saving the priority of the United States.
his question is the same as if it had arisen upon a
bond given for duties; for by the act of 3d of March,
1797, c. 74, 5, vol. 3, p. 21, it is enacted, "1that
,where any revenue-officer, or other pers6n, hereafter
becoming indebted to the, United States, by bond or
7therwise, shall bec6me insolvent," &c. " the debt due
co the United States shall be first satisfied; and the
priority hereby established, shall be deemed to extend as well to cases in which 'a debtor, not having
sufficient property to pay all his debts, shall make a
vOluntary assignment thereof," &c. "as to cases in
which an art of lgal bankruptcy shall be committed."
-

This is-a voluntary assignment, and Fitzgerald died
insolvent. It is not necessary that he should have been
so at the time of executing the deed. If he become so
afterwards, and before the trust is executed, it is sufficient. It is the intention of the law, if there is an
actual insolvency, that all priorities should yield to that
of the United States.
The United.States,therefore, has a right to the whole
of Fitzgerald's estate, in the first place ; and if that
is insufficient to pay the debt, they may resort to Hooe,
for the whole penalty of the bond, if necessary.
C. Lee and Swann, contra, contended,
1st. Thai the deed was made bona Jide, and for a
valuable and good consideration, and therefore valid
upon general principles, both of law and equity.
2d. That it was not invalidated by .any statute or
the United States.

oTErus.

84
HErUZrUzTD
STATES

Hooz

AN

oTHE4s,

SUPREME COURT U. S.

1. Indemnity is a good consideration, within the
statute of Elizabeth, 1 Burr.474, FVorseley v. Demattox,
to the whole of which case the attention of the court
is requested, because, in almost every part, it is pppliScable to the present.
The deed was also bona fide. There is no evidence
that Hooe knew of Fitzgeralds inability to pay his*
debts at the cate of the deed. Indeed, there is no
positive evidence of the insolvency of the estate, even
at this moment. it has none of the marks of fraud
mentioned in Twyne's case. First; it is only for a
.part, perhaps not a third part of his estate. Secondly;
although Fitzgerald remained in possession, yet, it
being real estate, possession was no mark of fraud,
and cohild not deceive and defraud others, because the
deed must of necessity be upon record. Thirdly; it
was 'not made secretly. Fourthly; it was not made
pending any process against Fitzgerald. Fifthly; here
was no secret trust for the benefit of the grantor-and,
Sixthly; it contains no unusual clauses in support of its
honest and fair intentions, which, Lord Coke says, al.
ivays induce suspicion.
The whole evidence in the case shows, that. the only
intention of the parties was that which is expressed fully
and 4fairly in the deed, He had a right to indemnify
Hooe atthe time of 'giving the bond, and it can make no
difference whether he executed the deed at that time or
afterwards ; the consideration was equally good at one
time as at the other. It could be no fraud in Hooe to
wait for security as long as he thought himself safe; and
it could be no fraud in Fitzgerald to give a security,
which he was bound in honour and conscience to give,
whenever it should be demanded.
.ason, in answer to a question from the Chief Justice,
whether there was any act of Congress which' subjected
the lands of the debtors of the United States to a specific
lien, said, he knew of none, unless it was the act of 1 ith
July, 1798, c.'88, § 15, vol. 4,p. 197. But in the present case, Fitzgerald, by his will, charged his lands" with
the payment of his debts ; and if he had not, they would
jbave been liable to an elegi4.

FEBRUARY, 1805.
ChiefJustice.. I have considered the act of 1798 ; it TnzU xTr.
STATES
only creates a lien when a suit is commenced.
Monday, February 25.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J. I am directed .y the court to

inform the counsel in this case, that they do not wish to
hear any argument from the counsel of the defendants in
error, upon the general question of fraud, being satisfied
on that point.
The court also wishes to draw the attention of thecounsel to the question, whether there is any evidence of
Fitzgerald's insolvency in the record.
Mason, for the United States.
The'deed in this case is contingent; the power to the
trustees to sell is contingent. They can only sell to indemnify Hooe. Utitil he ii" damnified they have no
power to sell. The rents, issues, and profits, are to be
taken by Fitzgerald only; and the legal estate being in
the trustees, the property is protected from the elegit of
the creditors. Suppose the property conveyed to be
double the value of Hooe's claim, the residue would be
protected from creditors, and would still be a fund from
which Fitzgerald might draw supplies to himself.
But the insolvency, mentioned in the act of congress,
means an inability to pay his debts, in contradistinction
to an insolvency under a bankrupt law, or an insolvent
-ct.
A voluntary deed, in the act, means a deed by a person
unable to pay all his debts, ,made without coercion of
law, to give a preference to some of his creditors. It is
not necessary that it should be a conveyance of all his effects. Suppose he should make three separate deeds;
one to one of his creditors for one third of his -estate ; a
second to another creditor for another third of his estate,
and a third deed to a third creditor -fortbe residue. The
two first deeds would not be less fraudulent than the third,
because they conveyed only a part of the estate.

V.
HOOZ AVD
OThEUs.

86
THUNITE
STATES

HOOF

ND

OTHERS.

SUPREME COIJRT

. S.

The decree of"the court below is erroneous, because,
the answers and evidence specified the, estate and effects
of Fitzgerald, and the court ought to have ascertained the
value, and from thence inferred his insolvency. An inSsolvency so ascertained, would have been such an insolvency as would have given the United States a prefbrence.
As to the question, whether the insolvency appears
upon ihe record-the bill charges the fact, and none of
the answers or depositions denies it. A comparison of
the balance due, with the effects and estate disclosed in
the answers, affords the strongest corroboration; and even
Hooe, in his answer, does not deny a knowledge of it.
But whether he knew it or not, it is suflfcient if we establish the exibtence of the fact; for in all cases "4where
any revenue officer," " indebted to the United States,"
" shall become insolvent," "the debt due to the United
States shall be first paid."
C. Lee and Swann, contra.
The insolvency contemplated by congress, means a
legal insolvency, not a mere incapacity'to' pay, unattested
by some notoridus act of failure, such as a voluntary assignment of all the elects for the benefit of creditors, or
the closing of doors to prevent process being served; &c.
The cases provided for by the act, are,
1. If the debtor " shall become insolvent."
2. Where the estate of a deceased debtor " shall be insufficient to pay all the debts."
3. Where "a debtor not having sufficient property to
pay all his debts, shall make a voluntary assignment
thereof."
4. Where " the estate and effects of an absconding,
concealed, or absent debtor, shall be attached."
The 1st case is that of legal and public insolvency4
where the estate and effects are assigned by Law. If it

FEBRUARY, 18o5.

meant every case where d, man was actually incapable of TnzU 'TZ
STArES
paying all his debts, it would frequently look back and
V.
undo all the negotiations of an extensive trade for many HooE AZ-D
years ;,for it often happens that a merchant continues in
oTZaUS.
-business and credit long after his capacity to pay all his
debts hs ceased. - Besides, it would'have been unnecessary for the legislature to add expressly the case of a
voluntary assignment, where there was an inability to pay
all the debts, if such inability alone w.s within the meaning of the words "shall become insolvent."
2. The case of a deceased debtor, whose estate shall be
insufficient to pay all the debts, would also have been included in the term insolvent, if it is to have so large and
loose a construction as is contended for by the counsel for
the United States.
3. And so would be the case of a voluntary assignment. But it is said that the present deed is such a voluntary assignment as is contemplated in the act.
The words of the act are, " a debtor, not having sufficient property to pay all his debts," that is to say, the
whole of whose property shall be insufficient to pay all
his debts, " shall make a voluntary assignment thereof,"
that is, of the whole of his property. The assignment
contemplated in the law must, therefore, mean an assignment of the whole; bdt this is only an assignment of a
part, certainly not so much as hayf of his property, and
is, therefore, a complete answer as to that point.
4. The fourth case is of an attachment of the estate
and effects of an absconding, concealed, or absent debtor,
and does not absolutely require an insolvency, or even
an inability to pay all the debts ; bit is a case of suspicion, in which a public act has been done and suffered,
giving notice of the insolvency, if it really exists..
Even supposing, then, that Fitzgerald was actually unable to pay all his debts at the time of executing this deed
of trust, (which fact, however, does not appear) yet, as
his property was not divested by act of law, nor by such
avoluntary assignment as is contemplated by the act of
congress, the priority of the United States had not at-

SUPREME COURT U. S.

88
Tt

tUNITED

STATES

tached, so as by any possibility to avoid the deed of
trust.

V.

HooE AND
OTUERS.
.u'-y-(*.d

This construction of the act of congress is warranted

by the decision of a very respectable circuit court of the
United States, in the case of United States ve King,
allhtce's Reports,p. 13.
The United States are plaintiffs in equity for an injunction, and the burden is on them to prove all the material allegations of their bill. It is on them to prove the
insolvency, not on us to disprove it.
If, then, the deed is not fraudulent in itself, nor made
void by any act of congress, the judgment of the court
below was cofrect, and ought to be affirmed.
Wednesday, February 27.
MARSHALL,.

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the

c( urt.
The first point made in this case, by the attorney for
the United States, is, that the deed of the 16th of Janu..
ary, 1799, is fraudulent as to creditors generally.
It is not alleged that the consideration was feigned, or
that there was any secret trust between the parties. The.
transaction is admitted to have been, in truth, what it purports to be ; but it is contended that the deqd,. on'its face,
is fraudulent as to creditors.
The 'deed is made to save Hooe harmless on account
Df his having become the security of Fitzgerald to the
United States, and on account of notes to be indorsed by
Hooe for the accommodation of Fitzgerald, in the banL
of Alexandria.
These are purposes for which it is supposed this deed
of trust could not lawfully have been executed ; and the
deed has been pronounced fraudulent under the* statute
of 13th of Elizzbeth.
That statute contains a proviso, that it shall not extend
to conveyances made upon g-ood consideration, and bona

FEBRUARY, 1805.

89

fide. The goodness of the consideration, in the case at TuP.:zU :ix
ST.ATZS
bar, has been adiiitted ; but it is alleged that the"conveyance is not bona fide; and f6r this, Twyne's case has HOOE AVID
been principally relied on. But in that case, the intent
oytiz .
was believed by the court to be fraudulent, and in this case
it is admitted not to have been fraudulent. It. is contended, that all the'circumstances from which fraud was
inferred in that case,' are to be found in this ; but the'
court tan find between them no trait of similitude. In
that case the deed was of all the property ; was secret.;
was of chattels, and purported to be absolute, yet the
vendor remained in possession of them, and exercised
marks of ownership over them. In this case the deed is
of part of the property, is of record, is of lands, and
purpor's to be a conveyance which, according to its legal
operation, leaves the property conveyed in possession of
the grantor. In the case of Hamilton v. Russel, this
court declared-,n absolute bill of sale of a personal chattel, of which the vendor retained the possession, to be a
fraud. Bit the difference is a marked one, between a
conveyancewhich purports to be absolute, and a conveyance which, from its terms, is to leave the pbssession in
the vendor. - If, in the latter case, the retaining of possession was evidence of fraud, no mortgage could ,be
valid. " The possession universally remains with the
grantor, until the creditor becomes entitled to his mone.y,
.and either chuses, or is tompelled to exert his right. That.
the grantor is to receive th6 rents and profits, till the
grantee shall become entitled to ilemapd the money which
the deed is intended to secure, is a usual covenanti
That the property stood bound for future advances, is,
in itself, unexceptionable. It may, indeed, be converted to
improper purposes, but it is not positively inadmissible.
It is frequent for a person who expects to become more
c-onsiderably indebted, to mbrtgage property to his creditor, as-a security for debts to be contracted, as well as.for
that which is already due. All thecovenantsin this'deed
appear to the court to be fair, legitimate, and consistent
with common usage. It will barely be observed, that
the validity of this conveyance is to be tested by the statutes of .Virginia, whih-embrace this subject. -But this
is not mentioned as having any influence in this case.
VoL IM
N

SUPREME COUIRT U. S.
iZ

V'IIT FM
STATES

HqOV*
'OTHERS.

The second point foi which the plaintiffs contend is,
that this is a case in which the priority of payment claimed by the United States in cases of insolvency; intervenes
and avoids the deed.
This elaim is opposed on two grounds.
tended,

It is con-

"1st. That at the time of making this deed, Fitzgerald
was not insolvent in point of fact ; and,
2d, That this deed was not a transaction which evidences insolvency under the act of congress.
In construing'the statutes on this subject, it has bees
stated by the court, on great deliberation, that the priorit'
to which the United States are entitled, does not partake
of the character of a lien on the property of public debtors. This distinction is- always to be recollected..
In the case at bar, itwill be observed, on the first objection made by the defendants, that the insolvency, which
is the foundation of the claim, must certainly be proved
by the United States. It mugt appear that at the time of
making the conveyance, Fitzgerald was "a debtor not
having sufficient property to pay. all his debts." The abstract from the books of the treasury, is undoubtedly
complete evidence as far as it goes ; but it is not intended
to show the state of Fitzgerald's -ccoiints in Jantinry,
1799. If that had been its object, it would have credited
hirh for the bonds then reported to be on hand. If the
case turned entirely on this point, the court would probably send it back for further explanatioq respecting it.
But this would be unnecessary, as it is the opinion of the
-ourt that the decree is right, however this fact may stand.
'fa debtor of the United States, who inakes a bonz
ide caiPveyance of part of his property for the security
of a creditor, is withifi the act which gives a preference
to the government, then would that preference be in the
nature of a lien from the instant he became indebted ; the
inconvenience of which, where the debtor continued to
transact business with the world, would certainly he very
great.

FEBRUARY, ios.

§

Thewor4s of %heact extendthe meaningof the word
inso!,ehcy, to cases where "a debtor, not having siuFcientproperty topay,all his debts, shall have made a vol-

untary assignment thereof, for the benefit of his or her
The word "property" +is unquestionably
creditors."
all the property which the debtor possesses ; and the
word"' thereof" refers to the word- "propertyr" as used,
and can only be satisfied by an assignment pf all the property of the debtor. Had the legislature contemplated a
pirtial assignment, the words "or part thereof," or
others of similar import, would have been added.
If a trivial portion of an estate sl~ould be left out, "for
the purpose of evading the act, it 'would be considered as
a fraiud upon the law, ard the parties would not be enabled to avail themselves of such a contrivance. But whero
'a bona fide conveyance of part is made, not to avoid the
law, but to secure a fair creditor, the case is not.within
the letter or the, intention of the act.
It is observable, that the term insolvency was originally
used, and the subsequent sentence is designed to explain
the meaning and intent of the term. The whole explanaof property, as
tion relates to such .a general divestment
would, in fact, be equivalent to insolvency in its techical sense.
It is the opinion of the court, that there is no error in
the decree of the circuit court, and that it be affirmed.
After the opinion was given, it was stated, that the
court below had decreed the United States to pay costs,
and it'was suggested that that circumstance might have
escapedthe notice of this court, in affirming the decree
generally.
Mlason observed, that costs were only given by statute,
and that the United States are not bound by a statute,
unless they are expressly name 1 in it. That there was
no means of compelling the United States to pay them.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. That would make no difference,
because we are to presume they would pay them if bound
by law so to do.

TuzU.ThzD.
Si&.TFS
HooE A:ND

.oTigzs.
.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Mason. There is no precedent of a judgment against
the United States for costs. In the case of the United
HoopsD States v. La Vengeance, 3 Dal. 301, the decree of the
oQaES.s
circuit court was affirmed with costs. But the next day
Sthe
Chief Justice directed the words "with costs" to be
struck out, as there appeared to have been some cause
for the prosecution. But he observed, in doing this,
the court did not mean to be understood as at all deciding
the question, whether, in any case, they could award,
costs against the United States, but left it entirely open
for future discussion.

THzURrrZD
STATES

.1farch 6th.
The court directed the decree of the court below to be
affirmed, except as to costs, and reversed so much of the
decree as awarded the 'United States to pay costs, and
directed that no costs be allowed to either party in thiq
court.

PEYTON v. BROOKE.
Pzviou
13ROOKE,

Wednesday, February 27.

In Virginia, THIS case came before the court, upon a bill of excepif the first ca. tions to the opinion of the circuit court of the district of
a.be return- Columbia, for the pounty of Alexandria, upon a motion
e non et,
the for execution on a forthcoming l ond, had taken under
second.
may
include the the act of assembly of Virginia.
eosts of issu-

gboth.

Revised Code, P. 309.

The bond, upon which the motion was made, recites a ca. sa. against Peyton, in favour of Brocke, for
525 dollars, and 624 potinds of tobacco, at thirteen shillings- and four pence per hundred weight, and marshatl's fees and commissions, and all costs, 19 dollars
and 96 cents, amounting in the whole to 578 dollars
and 82 cents.
The execution on which the bond was taken, was
for 525 dollars, and 20 dollars, and 624 pounds of to.
bacco, at thirteen shillings and four pence per hundred
weight.

