SUPREME COURT U. S.
FEBRUARY TERM, 1805.

HUIDEKOPER'S LESSEE v. DOUGLASS.*

THIS was a case certified from the Circuit Court of

Hrxrrvo.

the United States, for the district of Pennsylvania, Li Penl'sIzssEn
which the opiniuns of the judges of that court were oppo- D
.

sed.
Under the'ace
The action was an ejectment to try the title of the of Penns)lva"Holland Company" to a very large tract of land ill na, Ofd

f
April, 1792,
Pennsylvania, lying north and west of the rivers Ohiofrthe sale
and Alleghany, and Conewango creek, purchased of that of the v ccne
state under the act of Assembly of the 3d of April, 1792. land., &c.the
Which act is as folows, viz.

grantee, by

An Act for the sale of the vacant Lands within this Com-

lvingnortle
and west of

2zonwealth.

Whereas, the most valuable lands within this Commonwealth, included within the purchase made from the nati-e Indians in the year one thousand seven hundred . nd
sixty-eight, have been taken up, located, and appropriated

warrant o&.a
tract of land,
the rivers
Ohio and At-

leglhny, and
Cnewango
Crvel, who
by force tf

arnq of thc
ene nles ot

Prcsent, NIfarkall, Chief u tice; Cushing, Paterson, Jasthington the United
StALs war
and yohnson, Justices.

Vol, Ill,

B

SUPREME COURT U. S.
IrUDKo" for the use of divers purchasers, at prices heretofore e.cJ.R'S LFSSEE tablished by law, and those which remain unsold and tin.
V.
DoUGLASS.

, -y
.
prevented
from settling
and improving the said
ra id for the
s.,:ce of two
year- from
the dlate of

his warrant,

'settled, being inferior in quality or situation, cannot be
sold at the same prices: And whereas the prices fixed
by law for other lands belonging to the commonwealth
are found to be so high, as to discourage actual settlers
from purchasing and improving the same:

Section 1. Be it therefore, enacted by the Senate and
Houie of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, in GeneralAssembly met, and it is hereby enact-

but during,
edby the-authgrity of the same, That from and after the
that time per- passing of this act, the price of all the vacant lands within
sisted in his
the limits of the purchase made of the Indians in the year

endeavours

such one thousand seven hundred and sixty-eight, and all presettlement
ceding purchases, excepting always such lands as hava
to make

and improve- been previously settled upon or improved, shall be redument, is ex- ced to the sum of fifty shillings for every hundred acres;
€.used f'u:om

3niking such
actual settlementas isdescribed in the
ninth section

and the price of vacant lands, within the limits of the
purchase madeof the Indians, in the year one thousand
seven hundred and eighty-four, and lying east of Alle-

ghany river and Cohewango creek, shall be rcduced to
the sum of five pounds for every hundred acres thereof;
and the war- and the same shall and may, be granted to any person or
rant
suchn vests
gran ne .persons applying •*for the same at the price aforesaid, in
t fee-simple, the manner and form accustomed under the laws heretofurc enacted, and noi" in force.
of the act,

See. II. And be it further enacted by the authority
af resaid, That fi-om and after the passing of this act, all
otner lands belonging to this commonwealth, and within
the jurisdiction therLof, and lai3 ing north and west of the
rivers Ohio and Alheghany, and Conewango creek, excepting such parts thereof as heretofore have been, or
hereafter shall be, appropriated to any public or charitable
use, shall be, and are hb'reby, offered for'sale to persons
who will ciltivate, improve and settle the same, or cause
the same to be cultivated, improved and settled, at
and for the price of seven pounds ten shillings for every
hundred acres thereof, with an allowance of six per
centum for roads and highways, to be located, surveyed, and secured to sudh purchasers, in the manner
herein after mentioned.

FEBRUARY, 1805.
Sec. III. And be it further enacted by the authorityi 1HrTDroaforesaid, That upon the application of any person who Wf'S

may have settled and improved, or is desirous to settle
and improve, a plantation within the limits aforesaid,
-to the Secretary of the Land office, which application
shall contain a.particular description of the lands applied for, there shall be granted to him a warrant for
any quantity of land within the said limits, not exceeding four hundred acres, requiring the Surveyor-General to cause the same to be surveyed for the use of the
grantee, his heirs and assigns, for ever, and make return
thereof to the Surveyor-General's office, within the
'term of six months next following, the grantee paying
the purchase money, and all the usual fees of the Landoffice.
Sec. IV. And be it further enacted by the authority
aforesaid, That the Surveyor-General shall, with the
approbation of the Governor, divide the lands thus offered for sale into proper and convenient districts, in
such manner as he may think expedient, so that the
boundaries of each district,, either natural or artificial,
may be known, and appoint one Deputy-Suveyor for
each district, who shall give bond and security, as is
customary with other Deputy-Surveyors in this Commonwealth, and shall reside within, or as near as possible, to his respective district ; and every stichlDeputySurveyor shall, within sixty days next after his appointment, certify to the Surveyor-General, the county,
township, and place, where such 'Deputy-Surveyor shall
keep his office open, for-the purpose of receiving warrants, in order that all persons who may apply for lands
as aforesaid, mav be duly informed thereof; and every
Deputy-Surveyor, who shall receive any such warrant,
shall make fair and clear entries thereof in a book, to be
provided by him for that purpose, distinguishing therein
the name of the person th.rein mentioned, the quantity
of land, date thereof, and the day on which such Deputy
Sarveyor shall receive the same, which book shall he
open at all seasonable hours to everi, applicant, who
shall be entitled to copies of any entries therein, to be
certified as such, and signed by the Deputy-Surveyor,
the party paying -onequarter of a dollar therefor.

DoIGLASS.-

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Hurbmco-

iEa'sssv.

DoUGLASS.

Sec. V. Ad be it further enacted by the authority
aforesaid, That the Deput -Survevor bhall, at the reas.inable request and pr6ptr cost and charges of the re-

Sspective grantees, in such warrants named, proceed to

survey the lands in such warrants described, as nearly
as may be, according to the respective priorities of their
warrants; provided, that they shall not, by virtue of
any warrant, survey any tract of land, that may have
been actually settled and improved prior to the date of
the ehtry of such warrant with'the Dputy-Surv: or of
the district, except for the owner of such settlement
and improvement; and having petfected such surveys,
shall entr the same in a book, to be kept by the Deputy
Sairveyor, and to be called the survey-book ; and the
sqme book shall'remain in his office, liable to be inspected by any ptrson whatsoever, who shall demand
to see he same, upon the paytment of eleven pence for
every searkh ; and the Deputy Surveyor shall cause
copies of any 'such sui vey to be made out, and delivered
to any person, upon the payment of one quartLr of a
dullar for eaLh copy.
Sec. VI. And be it further enacted by the authority
aforesaid, That in making any survey by any DeputySurveyor, he shail not go out of his proper district to
perform the same, and that every survey made by any
Dput-Surveyor without his proper district shall be void
and of non effect; and the Surveyor-General and his deputies, are hcreby severally directed and enjoined to surv~v, or cause to be surveyed, the full amount of land
contained and mentioned in any warrant, in one entire
tract, if the same can be found, in such manner and form,
as that su.h tract shall notcontain in front on any navigable river or lake, more than one hal of the length or depth
of su,h tract, ad *o conform the lines of every survey
in such mannor as to form the figure or plot thereol as
nearly as circums.ance, will admit, to an oblong, whose
length shall not be greattr than twice the brtadfli thereof;
and in case any stch survey should be foutnd to contain
a greater quantity of land, than is nentioned in the warrant on whibh it shall be made, so that such excess be not
"more.than one-tenth of the number of acres mentioned,

in such warrant, besides the usual ail6wance lor roads
and highivaN s, the letum thereof shall, neverthelc~s, bc

FEBRUARY,

1805.

-admitted, under the warrant, provided the party procur-

Ifznmro.

ing such return to be made, shall forthwith pay to the P5I ' LESSEE

Receiver-General of the Land office, the price or value DouCLAS.
of such excess or ov-rplus land; at the same rate at which
he paid for the land mentior.ea in the warrant.
Sec. VII.- And be itfurther cnacted by the authority
aforesaid, That ever" Deputy -Surveyor to be appoiited
by virtue of this act shall, within the month of February
in the next year, make and reiurn into the office of the
Surveyor-General, plots ot every survey which he shll
have made in pursuance of any warrant, connected together in one general draft, so far as they may be contiguous to each other' with the courses and distances of
each line, the quantity of land contained in each survey,
and the name of the person for whom thh same was surveyed; and every succeding year he shall make a like return of the surveys made in the year preceding.
Sec. VIII. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the Deputy-Surveyor of the proper
district shall, upon the application of any person who has
made an actual settlement and improvement -on lands,
lying north and west of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany,
and Conewango creek, and, upon such person paying the
legal fees, survey and mark out the lines of the tract of'
land to which such person ma, by conforming to the
provisions of this act, become entitled by virtue of such
settlement and improvement: .Pravided,That he shall
notsurvey more than four hundred acres for suchperson,
and shall, in making such survey, conform himself to all
the other regulations by this act prescribed.
Sec. IX. And be it further enacted by the authority
aforesaid, 'That no warrant or survey, to be ipsued or
made in pursuaice"of this'act, for lanls lying north and
west of the rivers Ohio and Alleghan , and Conewango
creek, shall vest any title in or to the. lands therein mentioned, unless the graintee has; prior to the date of such
warrant, made, or caused to be made, or hall, within
the space of two years next after the date of the same,
mak-e, or'cause to be made, an actual settlement thereon,
by clearing, fencing and cultivating, at least two acrts
for every hundred acres contained in one survey, erecting thereon a minesuage ior the habitation ot man, and

SUPREME COURT U. S.
II'IDEKorpseLEsFE
DOUGLASS.
Sof

residing, or causing a family to reside thereon, for the
space of five years riext folloming his first settling of the
same, if he or she sh,ll so long live; and that in default
such actual settlement and residence, it shall and may
be law'ul to and for this Commonwealth to issue new
warrants to other actual settlers for the said lands, or any
part thereof, reciting the origiiial warrants, and that actual settlements and residence have not been made in
pursuance 'thereof, and so often as defaults shill be
made, for the time and in the manner aforesaid, which
new grants shall he under -and subject to all and every the
regulations contained in this act. Providedalways, nevertheless, That if any such actual settletr," or any grantee, in
any such original or succeeding warrant, shall, by force
of arms of the enemies of the United States, be prevented from making uch actual settlement, or be driven
therefrom, and shall persist in his endeavours to mnker
such actual settlement as aforesaid, then, in either case,
he and his heirs shall be entitled to have and to hold the
said lands, in the same manner as if the actual settlement
had been made and continued.
Sec. X. And be it further enacted by the authority
aforesaid, That the lands actually settled and improved
according to the provisions of this act, to whoses6ever
possession they may descend or come, shall be and remain
liable and chargeable for the payment of the consideration or purchase money at the rate aforesaid, for every
hundred acres, and the interest thereon accruing from the
dates of such improvements ; and if such actufl settler,
not being hindered as aforesaid, by, 'death, or the enemies of the United States, shall neglect to apply for a warrant for the space of ten years after the time of passing
this act, it shall and may be lawful to and for this .Comnmonweblth to grant the same lands, or any part' thereof,
t6 other, 'by warrants, reciting such defaults i and the
grantees, complying with the regulations ofthis act, shall.
have, hold and enjoy, the same to them, their heirs and
assigns; but no warrant shall be issued in pursuance of
this act, until the purchase money shall be paid to the
Receiver-Gbeneral 6f the Land-Office.
Sec.' XI. And be itfurther enacted by the'auithority
hforesaid, That when'any caveat is determined by the

FPBRUARY, 1805.
Board of Property, in manner .heretofore used in this tHuzDrIr
Commonwealth, the patent shall, nevertheless, be stayed Eft'S LESSE

for the term ofsix months, within which time, the party
against whom the determination of the Board is, may enter his suit at common law, but hot afterwards ; and the
party, in whose favour the d'etermination ofthe Board is,
shall be deemed and taken to be in possession, to all the
intents and purposes ot trying the title, although the other
party should be in actual possession, which supposed
possession, shall, ne-'ertheless, have no effect upon the
title; at the end of vhich term of six months aforesaid,
if no suit is entered a patent shall issue according to the
determination of the Board, upon the applicant producing a certificate of the Prothonotary of the proper county that no suit is commenced, or if a suit is, entered, a
patent shall, at the determination of such suit, issue, in
common form, to that party inwhom the title is found by
law; and in both cases, the patent shall be and- remain
;a full and perfect title to the lands against all parties and
privies to the said caveat or suit ; saving, nevertheless,
to infants, femes coverts, persons beyond sea, non corn,
potes mentes, and others, under disabilities, their respective rights, until twelve months after such disabilities
are removed.
Sec. XII. And be it further enacted by the authority
aforesaid, That no direct taxes shall be levied, assessed,
or collected, for the use of-this Commonwealth, upon
or from any of the lands or tenements lying north or
est of the purchase made of the Indians, in the year one
thousand seven hundred and sixty-eight, or'the personai
estate found thereupon, for the full space or term of tea
years,. from and after the passing of this act.
Sec. XIII. 4nd be it further enacted by the authority
aforesaid, That the following tracts ;of land shall be reserved for the use of the Commonwealth, that is to say,
at Presqu'isle, formed by Lake Erie, the island or peninsula which forms the harbour, and a tract extending eight
-niiles along. thi shore of the lake, and three miles in
breadth, so as to include the tri.ct already stirveyed,,.by
-virtue of a iesolution of the General Assembly, and the
whole of the 'harbour formed by the said 'Presqu'isle, at
teq. mouth, of H[arbour creek, which empties' into the

DoUGLASS.

SUPfREME COURT U. S,

8
HutnEKoPZR'S LKSEr

Lake Erie, an-l along the shore of the lake, on both sideb
of said creek, two thousand said acres.

V.

]DOUGOLASS.

Sec. XIV.
,.''

And be iftrtherenacted by the authorityf

aforesaid, l'hat all the luds within the triangle on Lake
Erie, purchased from the United States, shall be taktn

and deemed, anl they are hereby declared to be, within
the limits of the .ounty of Alleghany.
Sec. XV.

And6e it further enacted by the atthority"

aforesaid, That it shall and may be lawful to and for the
holder or holders of any unsatisfied warrant and warrants,
h.-retofore issued for linds, agreeably to the seventh section of the act, entitled, - An Act to alter and amend an
Act of Assem~bly, entitled, " An Act fbr opening tho
Latnd-Offi e, for gran'ting and dsposing o'f the unappropriated lands within this State," passed on the twenty-

first day of December, in the year one thousand seven
.hundred and eighv-four, to locate the quantity of land

for which su.h unsatisfie:d warrant and warrants was and
were granted, in any districtof vacant and unappropriated
land within this Commonweal.h; provided the owner or
owners of such uvsatisfied warrants shall be under the
same regulations and restrictions, as other oi,'ners of war-

rants taken for lands 1%
ing north and west of the Alleghany river and Conewango creek, are made subject by this
act, the said recited act, or any other act or acts of the
G-neraf Assembly, to the contrary thetreof in anywise
notwithstanding.

WILLIAM BINGHAM,
Sipeaker of the Iruse of Refresentativea.
SAMUEL POWELL,
Sheaker of the Senate.
.At.'oed, Xtril

3d, 1792.

THOMAS MIFFLIN,
Governorof the Commonwealth of Pewnaylvania.

The points upon which. the opinions of the Judges of
the court below were opposed, were certified to be as follows, viz.
1. Whether, under the act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, passed on the third day of April, one thousantl

FEBRUARY, 1805.

seven hundred and ninety-two, entitled, "An act for the HurD-osale of the vacant lands wiihin this commonwealth," the E sLZ5,1
grantee, by warrant of a tract of land lying north and west flouG^ss.
of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany, and Conewango creek,
who, by force of arms of the enemies of the United States,
was prevented from settling and improving the said land,
and from residing thereon from the tenth day of April,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three, the date of
the said warrant, until the first day of January, one thousand seven hundred and uinety-six, but who, during the
said period, persisted in his endeavours to make such settlement and residence, is excused from making such ac.tual settlement, as the enacting clause of the ninth section
of the said law prescribes, to vest a title in the said
grantee.
2. Whether a warrant, for a tract of land lying north
and west. of the rivers Ohio mnd Alleghany, and Conewango creek, granted in the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-three, under and by virtue of the act
of the legislature of Pennsvlvania, entitled, "1An act for
the'sale of the vacant lands within this commonwealth,"
to a person who, by force of arms of the enemies of the
United States, was prevented from settling and improving the said land, and from residing thereon from the
date of the said warrant until the first day of January,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety-six, but who, during the said period, persisted in his endeavours to make
such settlement and residence, vests any, and if any, what
title in or-to the said land, unless the said grantee shall,
after the said prevention ceases, commence, and within
the space of two years thereafter, clear, fence and cultivate at least two acres for evefy hundred aqres contained
in his said survey, erect thereon a messuage for the habitation of man, and reside, or cause a family to reside
thereon, for the space of five years next followving his first
settling the same, the said grantee being yet in full life.
3d. Whether a grantee in such a warrant as aforesaid,
who has failed to make such settlement as the enacting
clause of the said ninth section requires, and who is not
wihin the benefit of the proviso, has thereby forfeited his
right and title to said land, until the cotnnionweah has
C
Vol. HM.

SUPREME COURT, U. S.

10
H xbzrKo*ER'SV.
LZSSE]

DOUGLASS.

taken advantage of the said forfeiture, so as to prevent

the said grantee from recovering the possession of said
land in ejectm-nt against a person who at any time after

two years from the time the prevention ceased, or at any
subsequent period, has settled and improved the said land,
and has ever since been in possession of the same.
Dallas, for the plaintiff, contended for three general
propositions.
1. That a warrantee (meaning thereby a person claiming under'a warrant from the commonwealth) who has
been prevented by force of arms of the enemies of the
United States, from improving, settling-and residingon
the land, but h-as persisted in his endeavours to do so,
during two years from the date of his wariant, is forever
and totdly released, by the operation of the proviso, from
the obligation of making the improvement, settlement
and residence described in the enacting clause of the 9th
section of the law.
2. If not forever and totally excused under the specified circumstances, yet the warrabt vests in such warrantee and his heirs, a title to the land under one of three
aspects-1 st. Provided, during and for a reasonable time
after the period of prevention, he persists in his endeav-)urs to accomplish an improvement, settlement and
residence, although his endeavours shotld not be suc.
cessful-2d. Provide d he accomplishes the settlement
and improvement within two years, and the residence
within five years, after the prevention by hostilities
ceased. 3d. Provided he has accomplished the iii.
pro- ement, settlement and residence, at any time before ihe cormonwealth has taken advantage of the for.
feiture.
3. The inceptive title of the warrantee gives a right
of possession which can only be defeated by an act of
the coin nonwealth, taking advantage of a forfeiture for
non-compliance with the terms of the grant.

I. Point.
In order to understand the act of 1792, it will be necessary to take a view of the situation of the State of

-FEBRUARY, 1805.

11

Pennsylvania at that period. Her finances were em- lux-ri:o.
V.
barrassed, and an Indian war existed on her fronticr.s. PEH'S LESbZ
Hence she had two great objects in view-tfle protection Dot GLASS.
of those frontiers and the accession of wealth to her
treasury. To accomplish the first, no means wire so
sure as to establish on the frontiers a.firm, hardy, and
vigilant population, bound by their dearest interests to
watch and repel the predatory incursions of the Indians.
And to attain the second, no means presented them-.
selvs so obviously as the sale of the vacant lands.
Although the war was raging at the time when the
act passed, yet negotiations were pending, and peace
was expected.
The general provisions of the act, therefore, especially those which relate to settlement and residence, are
predicated upon a state of peace, while the legislature
aLso took care to provide for a state of war.
The extent of that provision is the principal subject
of litigation.
Without resorting to the words, but considering the
law as a contract, what are the motives ana ideas whili
may be reasonably ascribed to the parties?
1st. As to the state.
1. The settlement might be prevented by two means;
public calamity, or negligence in the grantee. For
the one, it was just that the State should, answer; for
the other, the grantee. 2. It was unreasonable for the
State to require the same from him who should be prevented, as from him who should not be prevented from
making a settlement. A mere enlargement of time
diminishes, but does not obviate the objection. It does
not put both on an equal footing. The man who has
spent years in fighting and toiling to obtain a settlement, is still to do just as much as the man who has
staid at home by his fire-side till war is over, and.
then purchases iis warrant. I hc former has no
credit for his toil and wounds. This construction is
evidently contrary to the spirit of the act, which was to

SUPREME COURT, U. S.

12

gain hardy adventurers,.vho should join their exertions
to those of Tat State and of the United States, to subD)OUGLASS.
due the Indians ; for it totally destroys all motive for
~ such exertions. The State, therefore, might say, and,
without doubt, meant to say to the war-warrantee, that
a persistance in the endeavour to settle, during the period
prescribed, shall be accepted in lieu of actual settle-'
ment. That the man who has actually accomplished
the "settementand residence in time of peace, and he
who shall have persisted in his endeavours to settle and
reside for the stipulated time, during a state of war,
but who Iris been prevented by the enemy from accomplishing his settle ment-and residence, are equally meritorious, and shall be put on the same footing.

U1rtnioER'S LESSEE

2d. As to the warrantee.
Would he purchase during the war, if he was liable
to forfeit his warrant althoiigh he persists during the
limited time, and if all his expenses and dangers were
to go for nothing, and if at the end of the war he would
be in the same situation as if he had remained at home ?
The situation of the State, then, called for money,
population and improvement. The means were a sale
of the land, subject to s'ttlement, if not prevented by a
public calamity;
The words and spirit of the act are conformable to
these ideas.
The title is, for the sale of vacant lands.
The preamble states, that the prices at which they
have been-heretofore held were found so high as to discourage actual settlers from purchasing and improving.
The second and thitd'sectioxns contain the offer of the
lands for sale, and the ninth describes the terms.
On this overture, conpan'ies and individuals became
purchasers. Among the rest, the H1plland Company,
in April, 1792, and August, 1793, purchased 1162 tracts

of 400 acres eich, which, by losses upon re-surveys,

FEBRUARY, 1805.

and bounties to actual settlers, are reduced to 776 tracts, 1{ciTzrowhich have.cost the.company 222,071 dollars and 10 rMn'SLESSEZ
cents for purchase money, and (up to the year 1802)
202,000 dollars in expenses, endeavours to settle, and
actual improvements. The Population Conmpany also
expended nearly the same amount. The consequence
was, that the public treasury was supplied ; a bank was
established, which furnishes revenues adequate to the
whole expenses of the government, so that no taxes
have been since imposed; industry and improvements
have been stimulated, and the State has advanced rapidly
in wealth and prosperity.
The'persistance and prevention of the Holland Company are admitted.
The treaty made with the Indians in 1795, is considered as the epoch from which the two and the five years
mentioned in the ninth section begin to run. But there
was still further prevention by distance, by the season,
(for the treaty was ratified in the winter) by intruders,
(who were pushing in upon the lands under pretence
that the warrants were forfeited by want of settlement
within the two years) and by the construction of the act
given by the Board of Property.
How then are the terms of the contract to be ex.
pounded? Not by the words, (for they are inconclusive and repugnant) but by the nature of the transac.
tion.
By the thirdsectior, a fee simple is granted ; but the
ninth section annexes a condition precedent. The warrant shall not vest any title unless," &c.
The nature of the transaction, however, gives a possessory title, and an usufructuary property, at least for
the two and the five years, else the warrantee could not
go and make a settlement. It is always spoken of in the
act as a grant. It rvay be devised, sold, descend, be
taken in execution, &c. By the 9th section, what is
given can only be divested by default. The whole es.
tate does not remain in the grantor until pcrformance
of the condition.

DorV.LASS.

SUPREME COURT, U. S.
PR'S LESSEE
V.

DOUGLASS.

But the settlement and residence for the time men.
tioned is not a sine qua non to vest an absolute title.
There are cases within the ninth section, in which the

\ew-y.%q.

title becomes absolute, altnough the'residence shall not

HVsnziKO-

have been completed.' The words ofthe act ae, "reside thereon for the space of five years next following
his first settling of the same, if he shall so long live."
If the warrantee, having begun his settlemeit, should
die before the expiration el the five years, his title is
complete. So if he puts a family on the land to reside,
and dies before the end of the term, and the family quits
its residence before the expiration of the five years, the
title is absolute. So if an actual settler shall by force
of arms of the enemies of the United States be driven
from his, settlement. And so, (as we say) " if any
grantee" " shall" by like force "be prevented from
making an actual settlement," "1and shall persist ir his
endeavours to make such actual settlement," during the
time allowed for making the same. that is for two years,
" he and his heirs shall be entitled to have and to hold
the said lands, in the same manner as if the actual settlement had been made and continued." In each of
these cases the condition is released. If the legislature
mieant any thing less, words were not wanting in~which
to express their ideas, and here was an opportunity of
using them.
The particular words of the proviso are importantG
" If any grantee shall be prevented." This implies
an attempt and failure. "And shallpersist," implying
still the want of success. "In his endeavours'still
holding up the idea that the thing is not accoiiplished" to make," not'untilhe male, not persist to make, but
persist in his endeavotirsto male, implying a continued
attempt, not a performance. "Shall be entitled to have
and to hold, in the same manner as if" Here the
words asif, necessarily imply that the thing itself is not
done. The first part of the section gives the lands, if
the thing is done, but the proviso also gives it, in a certain case, if it be not done, in the same manner as if it
bad been done. They who contend that the persistance
must continue until the object is accomplished, make
the legislature speak this abburd language-Persist until

FEBRUARY, 180.
the settlementhasbeen made, andyoushall have the land Hoxnzuo.
in the same manner as if the settlement had been made. PrLn'sLssz:
But we make them speak much more rationally-If you

are prevented by the enemy from makingthe settlement,
but persist in your endeavours for two years, you shall
have the land in the same manner as if the settlement
had been made. We will take your endeavours for
success. If settlement and residence were necessary in
all cases, the proviso is useless. If the legislature
meant by the proviso only to extend the time, they
have been very unfortunate in their language, for there
is no expression which indicates such an idea, and it is
contradicted by the preceding part of the section, by
which the commonwealth reserve the right to grant
new warrants as often as defaults shall be madefor the,
time and in the manner aforesaid. No time is expressed in the act but the two and the five years. If the time
is to be enlarged, who shall say how long ? There is no
provision for trying by a jury the question, what is a
reasonable time.
Theact contemplates but two cases. An actual settlement within the time, or a prevention during the
time by the act of God, or of the public enemy.
Inboth cases.the title was to be absolute.
The same reason that releases the warrantee who
dies, applies more strongly to the warrantee prevented
by the enemy, and the tenth section puts them both on
the same footing.
Let us consider what is required by the ninth section,
and what is relinquished by the proviso.
It requires, within two years, a settlenient, by clearing two acres for every hundred, by erecting a habitation,
and by residing five years.
Here is evidently a confusion of terms, by requiring
a settlement consisting of five years' residence, tp be
accomplished in two years.

D.nCL....

SUPREME COURT, U. S.

16
lIULDEKoLESSEE

TER'S

V.

There are also other absurdities in the same section,

equally glaring.

Thus it is declared that in default of

DoUGLAss. such actual settlement, the commonwealth may issue
new warrants to other actual settlers ; and that if such
actual settler shall be prevented from making such actual settlement, he shall be entitled in the same manner
as if the actual settlement had been made.
2. What is relinquished.

The condition of residence is released by the death
of the warrantee, and prevention releases both residence
and settlement.
The enacting part of the section may be considered
as a covenant to settle ; and the proviso as a covenant
to convey in case of prevention.
11. Point.
If persistance for two years does not forever and
totally release the condition of settlement, yet the warrant vests a title under one of three aspects.
ist. Provided, duringand for a reasonable time after
the period of prevention, he persists in his endeavours
to accomplish an improvement, settlement and residence, although his endeavours should not be successful.
To suppose the title to be forfeited, although an accomplishment of the condition has been prevented by
the enemy, is to make the proviso of no use whatever.
But giving a use to the proviso, and supposing it to
mean an extension of time, every thing is at sea. Every
case would have a diff-rent rule, and decisions would
varywith every jury. No case could be decided without alaw suit.
But if you allow the warrantee to gain a title by persisting during the war, and for a reasonable time after,
although without success,.you render the law intelligible, and give effcct to every part.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

This construction comports with the peculiar expres-

H YrDEo-

sions of the act, and is justified by the nature and equity PEr's Vo
LEssEE
of the case.
DOUGLASS.

End' avours during war would be more expensive than
success in a time of peace, and equally beneficial to the
State. By this means also you put the war-warrantee
itnd the peace-warrantee upon an equal footing.
But the legislature fixed a positive period, and left
nothing to discretion.
Who shall change the nature of the contract? Who
give discretion to courts and juries? Who substitute
endeavour for performance, ii reference to any other
time than the legislature contemplated ?
2d. The second aspect is, provided he persists after
the war, and accomplishes the improvement in two
years, and continues the residence for five years from
the cessation of the prevention.
This is what is contended for on the other side, but.
this is not the express contract which fixes the time, as
well as the acts which are to. be done.
It is not a contract which can be implied ; for an undertaking to act in two years from the date of the warrant, does not imply an undertaking to act in two years
after a war, which may be fifty years from the date of
the warrant.
The proviso contemplates no new act, no new epoch,
but under the specified circumstances gives a title as if
the act had been done in the time prescribed.
This construction would make the proviso a mere
mockery. It would place the warrantee, who had tbiled
through the dangers of the war, at a heavy expensein no
hetter situation than if he had used no exertions at all.
3d. The third aspect is, provided lie persists during
and after the war, and perform the conditions at any
Vol. 11.

1)

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HulKo*ER'S LESSEE
V.
DOUGLA SS.

~

time before the commonwealth takes advantage of the
forfeiture.
This regards the case as a condition subsequent, the
estate continuing after the contingency, until the grantor
enters and claims.
But this is contrary to the words, which call for endeavours, not performance.
This construction destroys all limitation of time.
U~pon the whole, there is no clear, safe, equitable and
satisfactory construction, but that whi(h supposes the

condition to be released by the impossibility of performance within the time prescribed;
III. Point.
The inceptive title of the warrantee gives a right of
possession which can only be defeated by an act of the
State.
All forfeitures are to be construed strictly. And
where compensation can be made, they are never enforced in equity.
The forfeiture claimed is entitled to no favour. The
contract itself was ambiguous, and rendered more so by
official misinterpretatio is.
The price has been paid. 'Time, labour and money
have been expended in improvements, and attempts to
stttle. The prevention has been by a public calamity,
not by private negligence.The operation of the 'forfeiture is dishonourable to
the State. She seizes the lands with all their amnlioiation, to sell them again to a stranger.
Even the State herself, therefore, ought not- to be
countenanced in taking advantage of the fo rfeiture.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

But what pretext can justify a stranger in intruding Huszmno.
PEE'S LESSEX
upon the possession of the warrantee ?
This is the case of a trespasser who thrusts himself
in upon the land, pretending that the warrantee has forfeited his title.
Is every person, who chooses to intrude, to be the
judge Whether the possessor has forfeited his title ?
This would encourage forcible entries and riots,; riot
would grow to rebellion. The peace of the commonwealth is at stake..
No man can acquire a title by ihis own tort.
But turn to the words of the act.
"That in default of such actual settlement and residence, it shall and may be lawful to and for this commonwealth to issue new warrants to other 'actual settlers,
for the said lands, or any part thereof, reciting the original warrants, and that actual settlements and residence have not been made in pursuance thereof," &c.
There must be proof of default; the party must be
heard. The commonwealth may, not shall, grat.t new
warrants.
It is said, however, that they are to bd issued to other
actual settlers ; which gives a right to any person to
enter on a forfeiture.
The terms of the act, as well as the nature of the
transaction, show that the case of a warrantee,and not
a mere settler, is meant.
It supposes a new warrant, where an old one had
issued.
Actual settler, is a deseriptio personx. It does not
mean a man who has completed, but who contemplates
an actual settlement. This appears from the manner
in which the terms actual settler are used in the pre-

DOUGLASS.

20
HUIDEKoPER'S LESSEE

SUPREME COURT U. S.

amble, and in the 5th, 8th and 10th sections of the act,
and even in the 10th section itself.

V.

DOUGLASS.
S

The commonwealth may grant new warrants to other
actual settlers. Other than whom ? Other than the
actual setders who had failed to make an actual settlement in the manner described in the beginning of that
section.
It means a person who had purchased with an intention, or under astipulation to make an actual settlement.
There is no express authority given to any person to
enter on a warrantee.. Can it be implied by saying
that the state may grant to another actual settler?
Her act must constitute the forfeiture of the old title.
Her act must grant the new.
B. Tilghman, on the same side,
Confined his argument principally to the support of
the proposition, that a persistance for two years after
the date of the warrant, and in time of war, in enden.
yours to make a settlement, gave the same title as if
the actual'settlement had been made and continued.
He contended that revenue and population were
equally the objects of the legislature in passing the act.
It oughtnot, therefore, to be construed with a sole view
to population.
The act, like a will, ought to be so construed as to
carry into effect the intention of the legislature, and to
give operation to all its parts.
To understand the true meaning of the proviso of
the 9th section, it is necessary to distinguish between
settlement and residence.
The warrantee is, by the first part of the section, to
make a settlement, "'by clearing, fencing, anti cultivating at least two ;,cres for every hundred, and by

FEBRUARY, 1805.

21

erecting thereon a messuaie for the habitation of man."
Thus much was-to be done in two years, and this ma
with propriety be called "actual settlement." But this
alone was not sufficient to give a title. The party must
also "* reside, or cause a family to reside thereon five
years next following his first settling of the same, if he
shall so long live."
Residence is superadded to settlement, which is the

principal requisite.
It is absurd to say that residence is comprehended in
settlement, because settlement must be within two years
from the date of the warrant; but the residence is to
continue five years following the first settlement. The
smaller number (2) cannot include the larger ntrnber,
(5) which must be the case if residence is a past of settlement. It certainly is not. But it is a requisite additional -to settlement, and which must be complied with
to complete the title. 'Settlement may be begun and
completed in the last three months of the two years.
Residence, the other requisite, is to commence with the
inception of the settlement, and to continue five years,
unless the party die, so that settlement is one thing, and
residence another. Unless they are different, hoiy can
the one commence from the other? If residence be a
part of settlement, and not a distinct member of the
condition, the death of the grantee within two years
fiom the date of the warrant, would vest a complete
title. A construction plainly inconsistent with the views
of the legislature.
That residence is considered a distinct part of the
condition, is evident from other parts of the section.
Thus it-says-" And that in default of suc-h actual settlemehtand residence, it shall and may be lawful," &c.
Again,'" reciting the priginal warrants, and that actual
settleme~ts andresidence have not been made."
The-proviso also considers'settlement and residence
as distinct. 'The party is to persist in endeavours to
make an actual settlement ; ,and if he does so persist,
is to hold and enjoy in the same manner as if the actual
settlement had been made and continued. If actual

HcIDEIO.
PEWSLS5ZE

V.
DOUGLASS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
I-Iuzro-ER'S

LESSEE
V.

DouGLASS.

settlement included residence, why say continued?
Settlement is considered as a distinct thing, separately
existing, and continued by residence. If the settlement is not made in two years, in peace, is there not a
forfeiture ? If so, residence is another essential. If
residence is a part of settlement, it must be had in two
years; but residence is to be five years from the first
settlement. Then if you abolish two years as incompatible with five years, you set all at large ; no time is
prescribed for either settlement or residence ; because
residence is not to be five years from the date of the
warrant, but from the first settlement, which mayl, on
this construction, be at any time. '1here is no means
to reconcile the whole but to construe settlement to be
one thing to be done in two years from the date of the
warrant; and residence to be another, to continue five
years from the first settling.
Such then were the requisites to a complete title.
But at the time of making the act there was an Indian
war, which might probably last more than two years.
It was necessary, then, for the'legislature to do justice as
well to the warrantee who paid money, as to the actual settler: one of whom might, by the continuance of the war,
be prevented from commencing and completing settlement -and residence ; the other be driven from settlement and residence actually commenced.
The provision is, that if the actualsettler (with or without warrant) shall be driven therefrom, or the warrantee be prevented from making such Actual settlement,
" and shAll persist in his endeavours to make such actual
settlement as afortsaid" "then, in either case, he and his
heirs shall be entitled'to have and to hold the said lands
in the same manner as if the actual settlement had been
made and continued."
The plaintiff and defenidant are at issue upon a great
question :
Is the condition to be performed according to the terms
of the epacting clause, at some time ? ,

FEBRUARY, 1805.
If this is determined in the negative, in what time is the H-r~nxoipatter, substituted in lieu'bf what was required by the PPR 'sV.LEzSS
enacting clause', to be performed?
DouOLASS.
These 4luestlons are distinct and independent of each
other:-not to be blended together in argument, and if
blended, will introduce the utmost confusion.
In considering the proviso, it is natural to inquire, Ist.
Who are the objects of relief against the condition. 2d.
On what terms is such relief to be granted; and, 3d. What
is that relief.
1st. The objects of relief under the proviso certainly are
persons not having done what was necessary under the
former part of the section, to complete their titleswho had not united settlement and residence ; settlers
without warrant-and warrantees having commenced
settlements or not.
2d. If any such " actual settler, or any grantee shall
be prevented by force of arms of the enemies of the
.V. S. from making such actualsettlement, or be driven
therefrom, and shall persist in his endeavours to. make
such actual settlement as aforesaid, then, in either case,

si. "1 He and his heirs shall be entitled to have and
to hold-the said lands, in the same manner as if the actual settlement had been made and continued."
The terms of relief are, persisting in endeavours to
make such actual settlement as aforesaid.
The whole question is as to the legitimate meaning of
persist in his endea&ours, &c. For if the grantee
-or actual settler complies with the proper construction as
to the thing intended to be done, the condition is done
away.

It is contended that the party must persist until settlement and residence are actually achieved.
This we say is utterly inconsistent with the letter and
spirit, of -theproviso. . Had the.legislature intended this,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Huv,

-o-

PER'SLESSEE

DOUGLASS.

it would have been so expressed, and might have been
readily done, by a declaration that, during war, time
should not run against the warrantee or settler.
Instead of which, a substitute for settlement and residence is plainly introduced. That substitute is a persisting in endeavours to make such actual settlement as
aforesaid. Instead of requiring a persisting in endeavours
until settlement and residence actually obtained or made,
the law contemplates somethingshort of settlement and
residence, which being performed, was to operate in the
same manner as if the actual settlement, and residence
had been made and continued. Such actual settle ment,
in the proviso, is considered as distinct from residence ;
and to it, as sucl;, the 'proviso relates. And if the party
presists in his ndeavours to make such actual settlement
as aforesaid (that is, clear, fence, cultivate, and build,
not reside) then he is to hold in ihe same manner as if
the actual settlement had been made and continued; to
wit, by residence. In the proviso, residence is no where
contemplated except where the effect of persistance in
endeavours is 'declared to be, to hold "in the same manner as if," &c. The legislature having thus plainly considered settlement and residence as different things, have
declared that persistance in endeavours to attain the one
shall be equivalent to the actual accomplishment of both.
The proviso affords relief on the ground, and solely on
the ground, that settlement andl residence were not had.
How strange is their construction ! If the actual settler
or warrantee persists in his endeavours until he acttaally
makes a settlement with residence he shall bold the land as
ifactual settlement had been made and continued. This
renders all the Words "in the same manner as if "" &c. entirely nugatory.
This is not the case to which the proviso applies. It
applies only to a case in which settlement and residence
had not taken place, but in which, from a proper consideration of circumstances, the party was to hold as if, &c.
looking to something other which is to be as if. Nul.
lum simile est idem. As if does not mean the same.

FEBRUARY, 1805.
Persisting in endeavours is all the proviso requires. If Huvonra.

unsuccessful they are still endeavours within the meaning P 's LZSSZC

of the proviso. Attaining the end is not the only evidence
ofpersisting in endeavours ; else all endeavours must
necessarily be successful, as, without success, in their
principles, there can be no endeavburs persited in.
If attaining the end was to be absolutely necessary, why
did not the legislature expressly prescribe the end and
not the means ? Or rather, whys having already prescribed
the end, in the former part of the section, did they say
any thing of the endeavour (the means) in the proviso ?
By the construction on the other side, the only benefit
the grantee or actual settler gains from the provisb is time
during the: actual existence of the impossibility to perform;
so that if the then raging war should last ten years, and
the party persist in his endeavours the whole time, his
title would still be incomplete without actual settlement
and residence.
The legisliture never intended to impose such ruinous
hardships on persons whose money they had taken; or on
actual settlers. If time only was their object, why not
give it absblutely during the war, without requiring a circumstance that must be attended with great expense and
trouble to the party? Why make endeavours and persistance necessary, unless intended. as a substitute for settlement and residence?
On these principles the proviso does the party more
harm than good; it was better for him at once to fall a
victim to the strict letter of the conditioin. Had these
principles been fairly and clearly avowed and stated in the
act, would any man, flagrante bello, have paid his money for warrants ? No. The State would have remained
involved in debt till the dose of the war.
But it is said, you are not to persist in your endeavours
during war, but you are to begin after the peace.
There is nothing of this sort in the law-and why, after
peace, is persistance required? Ahy should not the enactVol.-TIT.
E

O),Uv..

26

S:UPREME COURT, U. S.

ing clause, after some certain time, recur in fuillforce,
if this was the intention ? Why not say that during war
DorCOLASS. and for such a time after peace the condition shall not run
you?
/against
\
y
HuID-Ko-

VER'S

LESSEr

Surely, the persistance in endeavours to make a settlement refers to the time during which a hindrance existed ; and cannot apply to a time when there would be nothing to hinder the compassing the thing itself.
What is the relief granted?
They say it is only time-a suspension of the forfeiture
during the war. There is no idea of this kind held up
in the law. Instead of dispensing with a forfeiture, it
dispenses with the condition. It declares that if something is done it shall amount to a performance of ihe
condition and the party shall hold in the same manner as
ifWthe condition itself had been performed.
It is not enough to say that the .general intention and
spirit of the law is only to suspend the forfeiture for a
time. Siach spirit and intention must be shown and extracted from the bowels of the act.
.By our construction, viz. that two years' persistance
from the date of the warrant gives a complete title, every
thing is rendered intelligible and consistent, and every
word of the act has its proper meaning and effect. But
upon theirs all is confusion, and inconsistency. They
confound the larger with the smaller number-they make
the legislature speak without any meaning, and they re;ct
whole passages of the law.
If it is settled that persistance in endeavours to make
actual settlement is a performance of the condition, how
long is such'persistance to be ?
Surely, two years only friom the date of the warrant,
that being the time withii which, by the enactin clause,
the settlement is to be made; and as persiqtance is a substitute for settlement, must be for the same term and not
longer.

FEBRUARY, 180.:
. The act affords no other terms, no other rule of construction. Persistance cannot apply to the five years) residence because there c:atbe no residence without settlement;
and when th.-re had been a fruitless perseverance for two
years m endeavours to attain a settlement, there cannot,
in the nature of things, be a persistance to attain residence;
for settlement being out of the question, there cannot be
residence, which presupposes settlement, and which cannot exist without settlement.
Besides, the proviso excludes all ideas of endeavour
being applied to residence-they are attached to stement, and are to operate as ifactual scilenzet had been
made and continued.
Consequently, endeavours are only to be commensurate
with the time required for settlement, viz. two years from
the date of the warrant.
ili'Kean, (Attorney general of Pennsylvania) contra.
The defeat of Harmerin 1790, and of St. Clair in 1791,
show that the power of the United States, aide I by that of
Pennsylvania was insufficient to protect that part of the
country. The view of the legislature, therefore, was the
,settlement, not the sale of the lands. They reduced the prica
from 80 to 20 dollars per 100 acres. Settlement was not a
cbndition subsequent, but precedent ; or rather, it was a
part of the considaration "df the sale. With the same
view the kgislature reduced the size of the tracts from
1000 to 400 acres, so that on every tract of 400 acres
they might have a soldier. It was "nottheir intention that
a large tract should be purchased by any one person or
bodyof men. They meant to have a family upon every
tract of 400 acres. The Holland company purchased
1162 tracts, which was to produce 1162 soldiers, distributed among the same number of tra:ts. The object yas,
that the country should be settled during the war, if possible, so as to form a barrier against the incursions of the
Indians. But it is said a peace was in contemplation.
If so, why did they enact the proviso-why stipulate for
immediate settlement-why oblige purchasers to persist
in theit endeavours ? Immediate settlement was the object;
and if so, they could not mean to limit the perseverance to

t,
PER'S LCSSLL'

DoUGLASS.

SUPREME COURT, U. S.
HIuDyKO*ER'Sj.FSSEE
V.

DOUGLASS.

two years; they meant a perseverance as long as thcre
Every thing in the act shows 'this to
be their meaning.

was any obstacle.

The preamble states that the price at which they had

been held was so high as to discourage, not purchasers,
but actualsettlers.
The 2d section offers the lands " for sale to persons
who will cultivate, improve, and settle the same, or cause
the same to be cultivated, improved, and settled".
The 3d section declares, that " upon the. application of
any person who may have settled and improved, or is
desirous to settle and improve, aiplantation within the
limits aforesaid, to the Secretary of the Land Office,
there shall be granted to him a warrant for any quantity
of land within the said limits, not exceeding 400 acres,
requiring the surveyor to cause the same to be survey-,
ed for the use of the grantee, his heirs and assigns
forever."
The 5ti. section prohibits the deputy surveyor, by
virtue of any warrant, to survey any tract of land that
may have been actually .settled and improved prior to
the .date of the entry of such warrant with the deputy
sfsrveyor of the district, except for the owner of such
settlement and improvement.
The 8th section authorises the deputy surveyor,
upon application of any person who has made an actual
settlement and improvement, to survey and mark out the
lines of the tract to which such person may, by conforming to the provisions of this act, become entitled by
virtue of such settlement and improvement, provided it
does not exceed 400 acrei.
Tbe i0th section provides, that the lands thus actually settledandimproved, according to the provisions of
this act, shall remain liable for the purchase money and
interest from the dates of the improvements. And if
such actual settler, not being hindered as taforesaid by
death, or the enemies of tli United States, shall neglect to app'ly for a warrant in ten years after the pass-

FEBRUARY, 1805.
ing of this act, the commonwealth may grant the same

lands to others, by warrants reciting such defaults.

HurEicoPE's LrssEz
DOUGLASS.

The 9th section contains a condition precedent,
and if it be not strictly complied with, the purchaser
has not title. It is a part of the contract made with
his eyes open. The act must be construed as a contract. The several parts must be considered together.
The second and third must refer to the ninth section,
and be controuled by it..

What is a condition precedent ? It is a condition
to be performed before the estate can vest. As if a
-mangrant that if A. pay 100 marks before such a day,
he shall have the land. No title will vest until the 100
marks are paid.
It has been considered as a conditior precedent by
every judge who has passed sentence upon it. Thus,
Judge Teates, in giving his opinion in the case 9f the
mandamus, says, "It is admitted on all sides, that the
terms of actual settlement and residence, are, in the first
place, precedent conditions, to the vesting of absolute
estates 1n these lands, and I cannot bring myself to believe that they are dispensed -with by unsuccessful efforts, either in the case of warrant-holders or actual
settlers."* The condition is not dispensed with but in
This question has leen agitated in a variety of forms in the State
of Pennylvania, and a great degree of sensibility is said to have
been excited upon the subject- In the year 1800 a rule was ob"tained in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, by the Holland Company, upon the Secretary of the Land Office, to show cause why a
7nandamusshould not be awarded, commandirg him to prepare and
deliver patents for various tracts of land for which they had obtained warrants under the act of April 3d, 1792. The judges delivered
their opinions in the fbioowing terms:
Sajrpxwr, Chief Justice.-The legislature, by the act of 3d
April, 1792, meant to sell the remaining lands of the State, particularly those lying on the north and we'st of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany. The consideration money was to be paid on issuing the war.
rants. They had, likewise, another object, namely, thr" i~possible,
the land should be settled by improvers. The latter terms, however,
-werenot to be exacted fr9m thegrantees at all events. The act passedat a time whet hostilities existed on the part of the Indian tribes.
It was uncertain when they would cease ;'the legislature, therefore,
contemplated, thaf 'warrants might be taken eut during the'exist.

--

so
1iuIDEmo-

rE

'SLESSEE
.

DOUGLASS.

SUPREME COURT, U. ,.

.the case of prevention by death, or by force of arms of

the enemies of the United States. The question here
arises, is tile preveition and perstwerance for two years
Sequivalent
to a performance of the condition ? Is the
vill to be taken for the deed ?

ence of these hostilities, which might continue so long, as to make
it impossible for the warrantees to make the settlements required,
for a length of time; not, perhaps, until after these hostilities should
entirely cease. Yet, they make no provision that the settlements
should be made within a reasonable time after the peace ; but expressly within two years after the dates of the warrants. As, howc,er, they wished to sell the lands, and were to receive the consideration money immediately, it would ,iave been unreasonable, and,
probably, have defeated their views in selling, to require stttlemento
to be made on each tract of four hundred acres, houses to be built,
and lands to be cleared, in case su'h acts should be rendered impossible by the continuance of Lhe Indian war. They, thberefore,
mnake the proviso, which is the subject of the present dispute, in
the following words :-" Provided always, ,ntvcrthCles:, *1hat if ny
such actual settler, or any grintee, in any such original or stc.
"ceeding warrant, shall, by fbrce of arms of the enemies of tio
"United States, be prevented from making such actual settlement,
"or be driven therefrom, and shall persist in his endeavours to make
"such actual settlement as aforesaid, then, in either case, lie and
"his heirs shall be entitled to have and to hold the said lands, in
"the same manner as if the actual settlement had been made and
continued."
When were such actual settlements to be made • The same seetion of the act which contains the above proviso, gives a direct and
unequivocal answver to this question-" Within the space of two
years next after the date of the warrant." If the settlements wero
not made within that time, owing to the force or reasonable dread
ident that tho
of the enemies of the United States, and it was c%
parties had used their best endeavours to effect the settlement,
then, by the express words of the law, the residence of the improvers for five years afterwards, was expr( ;sly dispensed wilh, and
their title to the lands was complete, and patents might issue accordingly. It is contended, that the words "I ersist in their en.
deavours" in the proviso, should be extended to meai., that ifwithin
the two years they should be prevented by tim IMidian hostilities
et, when they should be no longer
from making the settlement, %

prevented by those hostilities, as by a treaty of peace, it was
incumbent on them then to persist to make such settlement. The
legislature might, if they had so pleased, have exacted those terms,

(and they would nt, perhaps, hiave been iinrcasonahle) ht they

have not done so : they have espr.sbhy conhinecd the time of imiaking

such settlements to the term of two years from the date of the warrant. Their meaning and intention can alone be sought for, from
the. words they have used, in wfhich there seems to me, in thspart
had been tCeir
of the act, to be ,,o great ambiguity. Ifthe contrary
meaning, they wou; not hove nade use of the word "endeavot,"
-which supposes a possibility, at least, if not a probability, as thing;

FEBRUARY, 1809-

3t

What is the settlement intended? 'We say' it includes

I-tEnmro.-

"five years' residence. The provisospeaks of such actual P"M'S Lrssrz
settlement as aforesaid," thereby referring to the descrip- DoGLASS
tion of settlement in the former part of the section,
that is, " by. clearing, fencing and cultivating, at least
then stood, of those endeavours failing on account ofthe hostilities ;.
.and would, therefore, hve expressly exacted actual settlements to
be made, when the purchasers should no longer run any risk in
making them.
The State laving received the consideration money, andrequired
a settlement within twoyears, if not prevented by eniemies ; and in.
that case dispensing with the condition of settlement and residence,
an.d declaring that their title shall be then good and as effectual as
if the settlement had been made and continued; I cannot conceivo
they could mean to exact that settlement at any future indefinito
time. And although it is said they meant that condition to be in.
dispensable, and that it must be complied. with in areastnable time,
we have not left to us that latitude of construction, as the l~giblature have expressly limited thie time themselves.
It is urged, that the main view of the legislature was to get the.
country settled, and a barrier formed; this was, undoubtedly, one.
of their views, and for that purpose, they have given extraordinary
encouragement to individual settlers; but they had, likewise, exidently another view, that of increasing the revenue of the State, by
the sale of the lands. The very title of the act is, "for the sale of
the vacant lands within this commonwealth ;" this latter object they
have really effected, but not by the means of the voluntarysettlers:
it could alone be effected hy the purses of rich men, or large companies of men, who would not have been prevailed upon to lay out
such sums of money as they have done, if they had thought~their
purchases were clogged with such impracticable conditions.
I have hitherto argued upon the presumption, that the words
"persist in their endeavours," relate to the grantees, as well as the
s'ttlers; but, in considering the words of the proviso, it may be
well doubted, whether they relate to any other grantee or settler,
than those who have been driven from their settlements; the word
11persist," applies very properly to such : the words of the proviso
are, " If such actual settler, or any grantee, shall, by force 9 f arms
of the enemies of the United States, be prevented from miking such
settlement, or be driven therefrom, and shall persis! in his endcavours
to make such actual settlement; then, in either case, he and hiq
heirs shall be entitled," &c. Here, besides, that the grammatic-l
construction of referring the word " persist," to the last antece.
dent, is best answered, but the sense of.it is only applicable to settlements begun, and not to the condition of the grantees. There
1 ',
are two members of the sentence, one relates to the grantees, %%
it is supposed, may be prevented from making their settlements.
The other to the settlers who are supposed to he driven away floin
the setthments. The latter words, -s to them, are proper _as to
the grantees, who never hegab a settlemintit, improper. The act

SUPREME COURT, U..S.
HUIDEKO- two acres for every " hundred, erecting thereon a mesvER's i,sszr suage for the habitation of man, andresiding, or causihg
Dou;LAss. a family to reside thereon for the space of five years
Snext following his first settling of the same."

says, in either case, that is, if the grantees are prevented from
making their settlements,* or if the settlers are driven away, and
persist in their endeavours to complete their settlements, in either
case they shall be entitled to the land.

I will not say this construction is entirely free from doubt-if it

.was, there would be an end of the question.

But taking it for granted, as it has been done at the bar, that
the words relate to the grantees, as well as the settlers ; yet, al.
though inaccurate, with regard to the former, it seems to me, the
legislature could only mean to exact from the grantees, their best
endeavours to make the settlements, within the space of two years
from th'e date of their warrants ; at the end of which time, if they
have,.been prevented from complying with the terms of the law, by
the actual force of the enemy, as they had actually paid for the
land, they are then entitled to their patents. If the legislature
really meant differently, all I can say, is, that they have very unfortunately expressed their meaning.
The propriety of awarding a ma,'damus, is another question,
which I mean not to discuss, as I presume a decision of a majority
of the Court will make it unnecessary.
YEATES, Justice.-1 have long hoped and flattered myself, that
the difficulties attendant on the present motion, would have been
brought before thejstice and equity of the legislature for solution,
and not come before the judicial athoHiy, who are compelled to
deliver the law as they find it written for decision ; the question
has often occured to our minds, under the act of 3d of April,
1792, which has so frequently engaged our attention in our western
circuits.

The Holland Company have paid to the State, the consideration
money of one thousand one hundred and sixty-two warrants, and
the surveying fees, on one thousand and forty.eight tracts of
land ; besides making very considerable expenditures by their cxertions, honourable to themselves, and useful to the community, (as
has been correctly stated) in order to effect settlements. Computing the sums advanced? the lost tracts, by prior improvements and
interferences, and the quantity of one hundred acres granted to
each individual for making an actual settlement on their lands ; it is
said, that averaging the whole, between two hundred and'.thirty and
two hundred and forty dollars, have been expended by the com.
nany, on each tract of land they now lay daim to.
The Indian war which raged previous to, and at the time of the
passing of the law, and until the ratification of the treaty at Fort
Granville, must have thrown insurmountable bars in the wayvot'

FEBRUARY, 18o5.

33

By the proviso no time is limited for the persist- HU!Druoing. We say it 'Means prsisting with ect; otherwise PED'S LX5r=
the object of the legislature would be totally defeated DOUG'LAss.

if the war should continue two years after the dates of
those persons, who were desirous of sitting down immediately oni
lands, at any distance from the military posts. These obstacles
must necessarily have continued for some time after the removal of
impending danger, from imperious circumstances : the scattered
state of the inhabitants, and the difficulty of early collecting supplies of provisions : Besides, it is obvious, that settlements, in
most instances, could not be made, until the lands were desigtated and appropriated by surveys, and more especially so, 'where
warrants have express relation to others, depending on a leading
warrant, which particularly locates some known spot of ground.
Onthe head of merit, in the Holland Land Company's sparing no
expense to procure settlements, I believe there are few dissenting
voices beyond the mountains: and one would be induced to conclude, that a variety of united, equitable circumstances, would not
fail to produce a proper degree of influence on the public wilt of
the community. But we are compelled by the duties of our office,
to give a judicial opinion, upon the Abstract -legal questionwhether,'if a wiarrant-holder, under the act of 3d of April, 1792,
has begun to make his actual settlement and is prevented from
completing the same, "by forceof arms, of the enemies of the
United States, or is driven therefrom," and shall make new endeavours to complete the same; but fails in the accomplishment
thereof, the condition of actual settlement and residence is dispens-ed with and extihguished .
I am constrained, after giving the subject every consideration in
my power,' to declare, that I hold the negative of the proposition,
for the following reasons, collected from the body of the.act itself.
1. The motives inducing the legislature to enact the law, are distinctly marked in the preamble, that "the prices fixed by law for
other lands, (than those included in the Indian purchase of 1768)
are found to be so high, as to discourage actual zetttlte from pur.
chasing and improvingthe same." S3State laws, 209.
2. " The lands lying north and west of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany, and Conewango creek, are offered for sale to persons who
will cultivate, improve and zet the same, or cause'the same to be
cultivated, improved 'and settled, at and for the price of C7 10,
for every hundred acres thereof." By § 2. The price of lands is
thus lowered, to encourage actual settlements.
S. By § 3. "Upon the application of any person who may have
settled orimproved, or is desirous to settle and improve, a planta.
tion within the limits aforesaid; there shall be granted to hirp a
warrant not exceeding four hundred acres," &c.
F
1ol. IT.

SUPREME COURT U. S,
iE*JIEICo-

the warrants.

Besides, the proviso would be repuS
void. It
only provides that the incipient title should not be lost_
Sduring the war, if thereby the settlement was prevent-

"ftn'SV.
LESSEE nant to the enacting clause, and therefore
DOUGLASS.

The application granted, is not to take up lands ; but it must be
accompanied, either by a previous settlement and improvement,
or expressions of a desire to settle and improve a plantation ; and
in this form all such warrants have issued.
4. By § 5. " Lands actually settled and improved, prior to the
date of the entry of a w.,rrant w~ih the Deputy Surveyor of the district, shall not be surveyed thereon ; except for the owner of such
settlement and improvement."
This marked preference of actual settlers over warrant.holders,
who may have paid their mney into the treasury fhr a particular
tract; even, perhaps, before any improvement of the land was
meditated, shows, in a striking manner, the intentions of the legislature.
5. By §' 8. "The Deputy Surveyor ofthe district, shall, upon the
application of any person, who has.made an actual settlement and
improvement on these lands, survey 4nd mark out the lines of
the tract of land, not exceeding four hundred, for such applicant."
The settlement and improvement alone, are made equivalent to a
warrant; which may be taken out by section 10, ten years after the
time of passing this act.
6. 1 found my opinion, on what I take to be the true and legiti.
mate construction of the § 9 ; in the close of which is to be fotind.
the proviso, from whence spring all the doubts on the subject.
It has been said at the bar, that three different constructions
have been put on this section.
1. That if the warrant-holderhas been prevented by Indian hos.
tilities, from making his settlement within two years, next flfer
the date of his warrant, and until the 22d of December, 1795 -(the
time of ratification of General Wayne's treaty) the condition of setIlement and residence is extinct and gone.
2. That tho!ugh such prevention (lid not wholly dispense with the
condition, it hindered its running within that period ; and that the
grantee's persisting in his endeavours, to make an actual settleinent and residence for five years, or within a reasonable time
thereafiter, shall be deemed a ftull compliance with the condition And,
3. That in all events, except the death of the party, the settlewent and residence, ahall precede the vesting of the complete and
absolute estate.

,FEBRUARY, 18o.

as

Every person who claims under this act must be Hu tnrtto.
an actual settler. It does not say that if the grantee, "I"s LESSEr

ed.

or actual settler shall be prevented, or driven .away,

he shall hold; but if prevented, or driven away, and he
shall persist, then he shall hold.
Though such great disagreement has obtained, as to the true
meaning of this § 9, both sides agreed in this, that it is worded
vrery inaccurately, inartificially, and obscurely. Tits, it will be found.
towards the beginning of the clause, that the -words "acaualfettle9eat," are used in an extensive sense, as inclusive of residence fur
five years ; because its constituent parts are enumerated and described, to be by " clearing, fcncing and cuidvatirg, at least two
acres for every hundred acres, contained in one survey ; erecting
thereon, a messuage for the habitation of man, and residing, ,ir
causing a family to reside thereon, for the space of five years, next
,following his first settling the same, if he or she shall so long live."
In the middle of the clause, the same words are used in a more
limited sense, and are coupled with the expressions "and residence," and in the close of the section, in the proviso, the same
words, a's I understand them, in a strict grammatical construction
of the whole clause, must be taken'in the same large mid comprehensive sense, as they first conveyed ; because the terms "such
actual settlement," used in the middle of the section, are repeated
in the proviso, and refer to the settlement described in the foregoing part: and the words '"actual settlement, as aforesaid," evidently relate to the enumeration of the qualities of such settlement :'Again, the confining of the settlement to be within the space of
two years, next after the date of the warrant, seems a strange
provision. A war with the Indian natives subsisted when the law
passed, and its continuance was uncertain. The state of the country might prevent the making of surveys for several years ; and until the lands were appropriated by surveys, the precise places
where they lay, could not be ascertained generally.
Still I apprehend that the intention of the legi,lature may be
fairly collected from their own words. But I cannot accede to the
first construction, said to have been made of the proviso in this
ninth section ; because it rejects as vholly superfluous, and assigns no operation whatever, to the subsequent expressions, "if any
grantee shall persist in his endeavours," -e. which is taking ant
unwarrantable liherty with the law. Nor can I subscribe to the second construction stated, because it appears to me to militate
against the general spirit and words of the law, aid distorts its
great prominent features in tie passages already cited, and for
ot* er reasons which I shall subjoin. I adhere to the third construction, and will now again consider the § 9. It enacts, in the first
instance, that "no warrant or survey for lands, lying north and
west of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany, and Conewango creek, shall
vest any title, unless the grantee has, prior to the date of such warrant, made, or caused to be made ; or shall, within tie sp-1ce of
two years next after the date of the same, make, or cause to he
made, an actual settlement thereon, by clearing, &c. Prorided atmaye, nrvcelevr, That if any such Bettler, or any grantee, in,

')OuLS,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
What is persisting? Buying impilements ? No.-Going on the land ? We do notcontend for that.
iut still
Douoi4 ss. itissomething, and who is to dete'gnine what it is.
It is
InU1D ,)o-

En'SvL.ss E

a fact which must be decided byi jury in every case;
which would be productive ofen'dless'litigation.
any such original or succeeding warrant, shal', by force of arms
of the enemies of theunited States, be prevented from making such
actual settlement, or be driven therefrom, and shall persist in his
endeavours to make such actual settlement as aforesaid ; then, in
either case, he and his heirs, shall be entitled to have and to hold
the saidlands, in the same manner, as if the actual settlement had
been made and continued."
"1Persist" is the correlative of attempt or endeavour, and sign!,
fics"hold on," "persevere," &c.. the beginning words of tho
section, restrict the settlement, "to be within two years next after
the date of the warrant, by clearing, &c. and by residing for the space
of five years, next following his -first settling of thle same, if lie or
she shall so long live," and in default thereof, annexes a penalty of
forfeiture in a mode prescribed ; but the proviso relieves against
this penalty, if the grantee is prevented from making such settlement by force, &c. and shall persist in his endeavours to make sucJ
actual settlement, as aforesaid. The relief, then, as 1 read the
words, goes merely as to the times of two years next after the date
of the warrant, and five years next following the party's first
settling of the same; and the proviso declares, thatpersisting, &c.
shall be equivalent to a continuation of the settlement.
To be more intelligible, 'Iparaphrase the ninth section thus Every warrant-holder shall cause a settlement to be made on his
lands within two years next after the date of his warrant, and a
residence thereon for five years next following the first settlement,
on pain of forfeiture, by a new warrant. Nevertheless, if lie shall
be interrnpted or obstructed by external force, from doing these
acts within the limited periods, and shall afterwards persevere in
his efbrts in a reasonable time, after the removal of such force, until those objects are accomplished, no advantage shall be taken of
him for the want ofa Auccessive continuation of his settlement.
The construction I have adopted, appears to me to restore perfect symmetry to the whole act, and to preserve its due proportions.
it aflbrds an easy answer to the ingenious question, proposed by tho
counsel of the Holland Company If,say they, immediately after
a warrant issues, a settler, without delay, goes on the ground the
3 Ith April, 1792, and stays there until the next day, when he is,
.driven off by a savage enemy, after a gallant defence - and then"
fixes 1i, residence as near the spot, as le can consistently, with
his personal safety, does the warrantee lose all pretensions of
equity ? Or, suppose he has the good fortune to contin ue there,
firmly adhering to the soil, for two or three years, during the In.
dian hostilities; but is, at length, compelled to remouie by a supe.

FEBRUARY, 1805.
VW-hen the prevention ceased, they were to settle in a HusiieLESSEZ
reasonable time ; otherwise the purchaser of 1793 would WZn'S V'.
be in abetter situation than the purchaser of 1796, be-

cause the former would get his title without the condition of settlement.
rior force ; is all to go for nothing, and must he necessarily begin
again 1 I answer to both queries, in the negative ; By no means.The proviso supplies the chasm of successive years of residence ;
for every day and week he resides on the soil, he is entitledto credit
in his account with the commonwealth : but, upon a return of
peace, when the state of the country will admit of it, after making
all reasonable allowances, he must resume the occupation of the
land, and complete his actual settlement ;-although a charity cannot take place according to the letter, vet it ought to be performed
cy-pres, and the substance pursued. 2 Prn. 266. 2 Fontd. 22L
It has been objected, that such a contract with the Statb, is unreasonable, and hard on those land-holderi, and ought notto be insisted upon : it will be said, in reply, they knew the terms before
they engaged in the bargain, and must abide by the consequences.
The only question is, whether the interpretations given of it be
correct or not.
7. A due'conformity to the provisions of the act, is equally exhcted of those who found their preference to lands on their personal labour, as of those who ground it on the pa3'nent of money.
I know of no other distinctions between these two sets of landholders, as to actual settlement and residence; than that the claims
of the former, must be limited to a single plantation, and the labour be exerted by them, or under their direction ; while the latter may purchase as many warrants as they can, and make, or
cause to be made, the settlements required by law. Addion, 340,
341
It is admitted, on all sides, that the terms of actual settlement
and iesidence, are, in the first place, precedent conditions, to the
vesting of absolute estates in these lands ; and I cannot bring myself to believe, that they are dispensed with, byunsuccessful efforts,
either in the case of warrant-holders, or actual settlers. In the
latter instance, our tiniform decisions have been, that a firm adherence tothe soil, unless controultd by imperious circumstances,
was the great criterion, which marked the preference in such
cases ; anid I have seen no reason to alter my opinion.
8. Lastly, it is obvious from the preamble, and § 2, that the settlement of the country, as well as the iale of the lands, were meditated by this law; the latter, however, appears to be a seconda.
ry object with the legislature. The peopling of the country, by a
"hardy race of men, to the most extreme frontier, was certainly the
most powerful barrier against a savage enemy.
Having been thus minute, and I fear tedious, in delivering my
opinion, it remains for me to say a few words, respecting those
versons who have taken possession of part of these lands, supposing

DougLAss.

SUPREME COURT XT. a.
Hvrzryao.
I.Pt'nS L.LSSEE

DOuGLASS.
'priation

If the settlement is begun within the two years, and
continued for five years, it is sufficient. Until a survey there could be no appropriation ; and until appro-

there could be no settlement-and there Lould
be no effectual residence unless the settlement was nade
the warrants to be dead, according to the cant ordof the day, and
who, though not parties to this suit, are asserted to be implicated
in our decision. If the lands are forfeited in tie ese of the lhw,
though they have been fully paid for, the breach of the condition
can only be taken advantage of by the qommonwealth, in a method"
prescribed by lhw. Innumerable mischiefs, and endless confusion,
would ensue, from individuals taking upon themselves to judge
when warrants and surveys cease to have validity, and mTking entries on such lands at their will and pleasure. 1 will repeat
what we told the jury in Morris' lessee v. Neighman and Shanes :
" If the expressions of the law were not as particular as we find
them, we should have no difficulty in pronouncing that no persons
should take advantage of'their o-n wrong, and that it does not lie
in- the mouths of men, like those we are speaking of, to say the
warr-nts are dead ; we will take and withhold the possessi'm, and
thereby entitle ourselves to reap benefits from an unlawful act."On the wfiole, I am of opinion, that the rule should be discharged,
SM ITH, Justice.-I have had a full opportunity of considering the
opinion delivered by my brother Teater; and as I perfectly concur
in all its principles, I shall confine myself to a simple declaration
of assent_ I could not hope, indeed, to add to the argument ; and
I am certain I could not equal the language, %vhichhe has used on
the occasion.

BY rHE COURT. Let the rule be discharged."
0 Since this decision was pronounced, the subject has been
revived and agitated in various interesting forms. In the w'nter of
1801-2, several petitions were presented by the intruders to the
legislature, requesting their interposition, but the committee of the
Senate to whom these petitions were referred, reported against
them and admitted, that the controversy belonged exclusively to the
courts of justice. But soon after this report was made, a bill was
infioduced, which recites the existing controversies, gives a legislative opinion against the claim ofthe warrantees, and institutes an
extraordinary tribunal, to hear and decide between the parties.The appearance of this bill produced two remonstrances from tle
Holland Company, but without effect. As soon as it became a
law, the Attorney-General and the Counsel for the Company were
invited to a conference with the judges, on the carrying of it into

effect ; but, upon mature consideration, the Counsel for the Com-

pany declined taking any part in the business, and assigned their
reasons in a letter addressed to the Judges, dated the 24th of)une,
1802. An issue was then formed, by the direction of the Judges,
whieh was tried at Sunbury, on the 25th of November following,
before 21ca_ -, Siith and brackenridge, Justices.

FEBRUARY, 1801.,
-within the two iears. Did the legislature mean to dispense with the" five years residence, if the settlement
couldnot be made.in two years The 9th section says, the
titl shall notvest, unless, &c. The only difficulty was, to
limit the time within which the settlement should be made.
The Charge, as delivered by Mr. fjhrticc Teamu, is as follows:.
That the decision of the Court and Jury on the present figne
issue should "settle the controversies arng firo contending
claims to lands north an&'nvest of the rivers
io and Alleghany
and Conewango creek." is an event devoutly to be wislied for by
every good citizen. "It is indispensably necessar that the peaco
of that part of the State should be preserved, and complete justice done to all parties interested, as effectually as possible,(Close of Preamble to the Act of 2d April, 1802, p. 155.)
We have no hesitation in declaring, that we are not without our
fears that the good intentions of the legislature, expressed in th
law under which we now sit, will not be effected. We hope wc.shallbe happy enough to acknowledge our mistake hereafter.
It-is obvious that the validity of the claims of the warrant-holders,
as well as 9f the actual settlers, must depend upon the true and
correct construction of the act of the 3d April, 1792, considered as
a solemn contract between the commonwealth and each individua).
The circumstances attendant on each particalar case may vary
the general legal conclusion in many instances.
We proceed to the discharge of the duties enjoined on us by the
late act.
The first question proposed to our consideration is as follows:Are watrants heretofore granted under the act of the 3d April,
1792, valid and effectual in law against this commonwealth, so as to
b;r this commonwealth from granting the same land to other applicants under the act aforesaid, in cases where the warrantees have
not fully-and fairly complied with the conditions of settlement, improvenent and residence, required by the said act, at any time before the date of such warrants respectively, or within two years
after 1
It will be proper here to obserye, that on the motion for the mandamus o the late Secretary of the Land-office, at the instance of
the Holland Company-the Members of this Court, after grcat consideration of the subject, were divided in their opinions. The
Chief Justice seemed to be of opinion, that if a warrantee was "by
force of Arms of the enemies of. the United Statti, prevented from
nmaking an actual settlement, as described in the act, or was driven
therefrom, and should persist in his endea\.oirs to make such actual
settlement thereafter," it would amount to a p.erformanceo of the.

IIt,1Damo.
PP
PER'S LE5
r.

DOUGLA3s.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

HuIxDxoZEa'S

LZSSEP

DOUGLASS.

If the settlement is incomplete, he is still to persist. If
the improvements- are made, but the residence not

completed, it is said he is not to persist.

But the pro-

~ viso says, that if the actual settler shall be driven off,
and shall persist,&c. What is he to persist to do ? Some-

condition in law. Two of us (Yeates and Smith) thought, that in
all events, except the death of the party, the settlement and residence contemplated by the act, should precede the vesting of the
complete and absolute estate, and that "every warrant-holder
should cause a settlement to be made on his lands, within two
years next after the date of the warrant,' and a residence thereon
for five years next following the first settlement, on pain of forfeiture, by a new warrant; but if, nevertheless, he should be interrupted or obstructed by the force of the enemy from doing thoso
acts within the limited periods, and shall afterwards persevere in
his efforts in a rhasonable time after the removal of such force,
until these objects should be accomplished, no advantage shall be
taken of him for the want of asuccessive continuation of his settle.
ment."-To this opinion Judge Brackenridge subscribes.
It would ill become us to say which of these constructions is entitled to a preference. It is true, that in the preamble of the act
of the 24 April, 1802, (p. 154) it is expressed, that "it appears
from the act aforeiaid, (3d of April, 1792) that the commonwealth
regarded a full compliance with those conditions of settlement, improvement and residencb, as an indispensable part of the purchase
or consideration of the land itself'." But it is equally certain that
the true test of title to the lands in question must be resolved. into
the legitimate meaning of the act of 1792, extracted ex viceribug
suis, independent of any legislative exposition thereof. I adhere
to the opinion which I formerly delivered in Bank ; yet, if a different interpretation of the law shall be made by courts of a
competent jurisdiction in the dernier resort, I shall be bounOI to acquiesce, though J1 may not be able to changd my sentiments. If
the meaningof the first question be, are titles under warrants issued under the law of the 3d of April, 1792, for lands north and
west of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany and Conewango creek, good
and available against the commonwealth, so as to bar the granting
of the same land to other applicants, where the warrantees have
not fully and fairly complied with the conditions of settlement, improvement, and residence, required by the law, ht any time be.
fore, or within two years after, the dates of the respective warrants, in time of pofound peace, when thep were not prevented from
nakling such actual settlement by force of arms of the enemies of the
United States, or reasonable and well grounded fear of the enemies
of the savages ?-The answer is ready in the language of the acts
before us, and can admit of no hesitation.
"No warrant or survey for those lands shall vest any title, unlessthe grantee has, priorto the date of suth warrant, made, or caused
to be made, or shall, within the 4pace of two years next after the
dlate of the same, make or cause to be made, an actual settlement

FEBRUARY, IQ5.
thing certainly which remained to be done; and nothing

Hotzow-

remained to be done but to complete his residence. But
if he persist in his endeavours io do this, the time during

PEn'S,.ESS

which he is prevented 'and persists, shall go to his credit. Hence there must be a persistance for five years at
least.
thereon, by clearing, &c. and in default thereof, it shall and may
be lawful to and for the commonwealth to issue new warrants to
other actual settlers for the said lands, or any part thereof," &c.(Act of the third of April, 1792, sec. 8.) For "the commonwealth
regarded a full compliance with these conditions of settlement and
residence as an indisputable part of the purchase or consideration
of the lands so granted." (Preamble to act of 1802.)
But if the true meaning of the question be-whether, under all
given or supposed circumstances of peace or war, of times of perfect tranquillity or imminent danger, such warrants are not ipo facto
void and dead in law, we are constraified to say, that our mhils refuse assent to the general affirmatixe of the proposition.
We will exemplify our ideas on this subject. Put the case, that
a warrant taken out early in 1792, calls for an island, or describes
ceztain land, with accuracy and precision, by the course of waters,
or other natural boundaries, distant from any military post, and
that the warrantee, after evidenciqg the fullest intentions of making an actual settlement on the land applied for, by all the necessary preparation of provisions, implements of husbandry, labourers, cattle, &c. cannot, with any degree of personal safety, seat
himself on the lands within two years after the date of the warrant,
and by reasdn of the just terror of savage hostilities. Will not the
proviso in the 9th section of the act of 3d April, 1792, excuse the
temporary non-performance of an act, rendered highly dangerous,
if not absolutely impracticable, by imperious circumstances, over
which he hadno controul ?
Or, suppose another warrant, depending, in point of descrilption,- on other leading warrants, which the district Surveyor,
either from the state of the country, the hurry of -the business of
his office, or other causes, could not survey until the two years
were nkearly expired, and the depredations of the Indians should
intervene for the residue of the term, will not this also sispend the operation of the forfeiture ?-Nothing can be clearer to
ua, than that the terms of the proviso embrace ind aid such cases ;
and independent of the strong expressions made use of, Tae should
require strong proof to satisfy our minds that the legislature could
possibly meanto make a wanton sacrifice of the lives of her citizens.
It is said in the books, that conditions rendered impossible by the
actof God, are void. Salk. 170. 2 Co. 79. b. Co. Lit. '106 a.
290. b. 1 Roll. Ab. 449. 1.50. 1 Fonh. 19.0.
Vol. I T
G

DoUGLASS.

SUPREME COURT, U. S.
HuxnaroAR'SLSSFE
Y.

The warrant gave a right to enter the land, to sur-

vey it, and to make the settlement.

But this right would

DoUGLAss. be forfeited under the former part of the section,
t

-

if

not-exercised in two years.

r

This was the right which the proviso meant to protect, and nothing more. This is the right which is saved
But conditions precedent. must be strictly performed to make the
estate vest, and though become impossible, even by the act of
God, the estate will not vest-aliter of conditions subsequent, 12 Mod.
183. Co. Lit. 218. a. 2 Vern. 339. 1 Ch. Ca. 129. 138.
Salk. 231. 1 Vern. 183. 4 Mod. 66.-We desire to be understood
to mean, that the " Prevention by force of arms of the enemies of
the United States," does not, in our idea, absolutely dispense v.ith
and annul the conditions of actual settlement, improvement and
residence, but that it suepends the forfeiture by protractin- tho
limited periods. Still, the conditions must be performed cypre,
whenever the real terror arising from the enemy has subsided, and
he shall honestly persistin his endeavours to make suh actual settlement, improvement and residence, until the conditions are fairly
and fully complied with.
Other instances may be supposed, wherein the principlqs of prevention may effectually be applicable. Ifadperson, under the pretence of beinF an actual settler, shall seat himself on lands previously warranted and surveyed within the period allowed, tinder a
fair construction ofthe law, to the warrantee, for the making hIls
settlement, withhold the possession, and obstruct him from making
his settlement, he shall derive no benefit from. this unlawful act.If the party himself is the cause wherefore the conditiop cannot bo
performed, lie shall never take advantage. Co. Lit. 206. Doug.
661. 1 Roll. Ab. 454. pl. 8. Godb. 76. 5. Vin. 246. pl. 25.
Me trust that we have said enough to convey'our sentiments ors
the first point. Our answer to the question, as proposed, is, that
such warrants may or may not ,be valid and effectual in law aainst
the commonwealth, according to the several times and e.xisting
facts accompanying such warrants. The result of our opinion,
tbunded on our best consideration of the matter is, that every
case must depeund on, and be governed by its own peculiar chcum.
stances.
The second question for decision is, arc the titles that have issu.
ed from the Land-office under the act aforesaid, whether by war.
rant or patent, good and effectual against the commonwealth, or
any person claiming under the act aforesaid, in cases where such
authority, and have been gronilded -on the
titles have issued on tile
certificates of two Justices of the Peace, usually called prevontion
cer'tificates, without any other evidence being given of the n4turc
and eircumatances of such prevention, whereby, as is alleged,
the conditions of settlement, improvement and residence, requlired
hy the said act, -could not be complied with .

FEBRUARY, 185.
by persisting as long as theprcvention continues. But I1urDruo
when the prevention ceases, the ultimate condition of taK'sV.Le.ssae
settlement is still to be performed. As the law does not DOUGLASS.
require impossibilities,, a reasonable time after cessation
It was stated ;n evidence on the motion, for the mandamus, and
proved on this trial, that the Board of Property bcing desirous of
settling a formal mode of certificate on which patents might issue
for la;d north and west of the rivers Ohio and Alleghany, and
Conewango creek, required the opinion of Mr. Ingersoll, the then
Attorney-General thereon ; on due consideraticn, a form was afterwards adopted on the 21st of December, 1797, which was ordermd
to be published in the Pittsburgh Gazette, and patents issued olf
course, on the prescribed form being complied with.
The received opin'ion of the Supreme Executive Magistrate, tfie
Attorney-General, the Board of Property, and of a resp.-ctable p-. t.
of the Biar, (whose sentiments on legalI questions will always hame
great .and deserved weight) at that day, certainly was, that if a
-warrant-holder was prevented by force of arms of the enemies of
the United States from making his actual settlement, within two
years after the date of his warrant, and afterwards persisted in his
endeavours to make such settlement, that the condition was extinguished and gone. Peristi.g in endearours, was construed to mean
something-attempts, essays, &c.-but that did not imply absolute
success, or accomplishment of the objects intended to be eflected. By some it was thought, that the endeavours were only to be
comnenrsrateal to the time of making the actual settlement, and
were tantamount, and should avail the parties 1*in the same manner as if the actual settlement had been made and continued."
The decisions of the court in Morris's lessee v. Neighman and
others, at Pittsburgh, May, 1799, tended to make the former opinion questionable; and two of the justices of the Supreme Court
adopted a different doctrine, in their judgmient between the Holland Company and Tenche Coxe.
In the argument in that case, it was insisted by the counsel for
the plaintiffs, that the Board of Property in their resolves, and the
Governor by his patent represented the commonwealth pro hac vice;
and that interests vested under them which could not afterwards
be defeated.
We cannot subscribe hereto. If the conditions of settlement,
improvement and residence are indispensable at all events ; they
become so by an act of the different branches of dhe legislature.The Governor, who has a qualified negative in the passing of laws,
cannot dispense with their injunctions; it cannot be said that this
case falls within the meaning of the 9th section of the second article of the constitution. "The Governor shall have power to remit
fines and forfeitures and grant reprieves and pardons except in case
of impeachment" It relates merely to penalties consequent on
public offences, nor can it be pretended that the Board of Property,
by any act whatever of their own, can derogate from the binding
force of law. But the fact is, an intention of dispensing with the

44
HuTDnKoP
YR'SLfSSE
V.

DoUGLASS.
-

SUPREME COTRT, ,U.S.

of the war must be allowed to make the settlement.
say two years is

'We

that reason'able time, because that was

the time originally fixed by the contract which was predicated upon the idea that there was no obstacle.
law of 1792 cannot, with any degree of justice, be ascribed to the
Governor or B -ard of Property for the time being. They considered themselves in their different functions virtually discharging
their respective duties in carrying the act into execution according
to the generally received opinion of the day ; they never intended to
purge a forfeiture if it had really accrued, nor to excuse the nonperformance ff a condition if it had not been complied with
agreeably to he public will expressed in a legislative contract.
The rt'e of law is thus laid down in England. A false or partial su gestion by the grantee to the king to the king's prejudice ;
wher-by lie is deceived, will make the grant of the king void. Hob.
229. Cmt. E. 632. Yel. 48. 1 Co. 44. a. 51. b. 3. Leon. 5. 2.
-lawk. 398. Black. 226. But where the wrds are the words of the
kihg, and it appears that he has only mistaken the'law, there he shill
not he said to be so deceived to the avoidance of the grant per Sir
Samuel Eyre ; Just. Ld. Ray. 50. 6 Co. 55. b 6. b. accord. But
if any of the lands concerning which the question arises, become
forfeited by the omission of certain acts enjoined on the warrantholders, they do not escheat to the Governor for the time being, for
his benefit, nor can he be prejudiced as Governor by any grant
thereof; they'become vested in the whole body of the citizeni as
the property of the commonwealth subject to the disposition of the
laws.
We are decidedly of opinion, that the patents, and the preveft'

tion certificates recited in the patents; are not conclusive against
this commonwealth, or any person claiming under Pthe act of 3d
of April, 1792, of the patentees having perfurried the conditions
enjoined on them, although they have pursued the form prescribed

by the Land-officers. But we also think that the CircumstancA
of recital of such certificates will not, ipso facto, avoid and nullifj

the patent, if the actual settlement, improi ement and residence,
pointed out by the law, can be established by other proof.

We must repeat on this head, what we asserted on the former,
that every case must be governed by its own peculiar circumstances. Until the facts really existing, as to each tract of land, are
ascertained with accuracy, the legal conclusion, cannot be drawn
with any degree of correctness. Exfacto oriturjue.
2. Here we feel ourselves irresistibly impelled to mention a (Wficulty which strikes our minds forcibly. Our reflections on the
subject have led us to ask ourselves this question on our pillows:What would a wise, just mnd independent Chancellor decree on
the last question t-Execuitory contracts are the peculiar objects of
Chancery jasdi tin, and can be specifically enforced by Chancery
alone-Equ'ty frms a part of ou law, says the late Chief Justice
truly. 1 Dall. 213.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

45

But it ig said that the commonwealth alone can enter
for the forfeiture,

and that there is

no• private right of

DOUGLASS.

entry.

But if this is a condition precedent, no right ever
vested, and, therefore, there can be no forfeiture.

HviDEEoPER'S LESSEZ
V.

The

If it had appeared to such a Chancellor, by the pleadings or
other proofs, that the purchase money had been fully paid'to the
government by the individual for a tract of land under the law of
the 3d April, 1792-that times of difficulty and danger had intervened-that sums of money bad been expended to effect an actual
settlement, improvement and residence, which had not been.accomplished fully-that by means of an unintentional mniytake on the
part of the State-officers in granting him his patent-not led to
that mistake by any species of fraud or deception on the part of the
grantee-he had been led into an errorand lulled into a confidence that
the conditions of the grant had been legally complied with, and,
therefore, he had remitted in his endeavours therein :-Would not
he think, that under all these circumstances, thus combined, equity would interpose and mitigate the rigid law of forfeiture, by protracting the limited periods ? And would it not be an additional
ground of equity, that the political state of the country has materially changed since 1792, by a surrender of the western posts to
the government of the United States, and peace with the Indian
nations, both which render an immediate settlement of the frontiers, in some measure', less necessary than heretofore i
But it is not submitted to us to draw the line of property to these
lands ; they must be left to the cool and temperate decisions of
others, before whom the questions of title may be agitated. We
are confined to the wager on the matters before us, and on both
questions we have given you our dispassionate sentiments, formed
on due reflection, according to the best of our judgment. We are
interested merely as common citizens, whose safety and hap.
We propiness is involved in a due administration of the laws.
fess and feel an ardent desire that peace and tranquillity should
be preserved to the most remote inhabitants of this commonwealth.
The same question was again agitated in the Circuit Court of the
United States, in April, 1803, in the case of Balfour's lessee v.
Meade. The charge of Judge Washington to the jury, was as follows:
WASHINGTON, Judge.-The importance of this cause led the
court to wink at some irregularities in the argument of it at the
bar, which has tended to protract it to an unreasonable length.Depending on the construction of laws of the state, and particularly on that of the 3d of April, 1792, it had at first the appearance of
a difficult and very complicate" case. It is not easy at the first
reading of a long statute, to discover the bearings of one section
upon another, so as to obtain a distinct view of the meaning and intention of the legislature. But the opinion I nowejnertain was
formed on Saturday before we' parted, open, however, as it always

SUPREME COURT, U. S.
Hutnnuo1L'SLESSEE
V.

DOUGLASS.

only right given was a permission within two years to

enter, for the puipose of surveying and settiing ; but

this right expired with the two years after the date of
Sthe

warrant, or of the close of the war.

is to such alterations as ulterior rctson and argument may produec.
The better to explain, and to understand the subject, it will be;
necessary, to take a general view of the diflbrent sections of tho
actof the Sd of April, 1792, upon which this cause must turn. Tio
first section reduces the price of all vacant land, not previously
settled or improved within the limits of the Indian purchase mado
in 1768, and all precedent purchases to 50s. for every 100 acresthat of the vacant lands withio the Indian purchase m ade in 1784,
lying cast of Alleghany river and Conewango creek to 5. to be
granted to purchasers in the manner authorised by former laws.The second section oflbrs for sade all the other lands of the state,
lying north and ,vest of the Ohio, Alleghany and Conewango, to
persons who will cultivate, inrprovc andzcttlc the simc, or cause it
to be done at the price ofG 7. 10.7. per hundred acres, to be located,
surveyed and secured as directed by this law. It is to be remarked,
that all the above lands lie in diflbrent districts, and are oflbred at
different prices. Title to any of them may be acquired by eettleinent, and to all except those lying north and west of the Ohio,
Alleghany and Conewango, by warrant-. ithout settlement.
The third section, referring to all the above lands, anthorises ap.
plications to the Secretary of the Land.office by any person having
setted and improved, or who was desirous to settle and improve u
plantation to be partiadarlydescribed, for a warrant for any quantity
of land, not exceeding 400 acres; which warrant is to authorise
and require the Surveyor general to cause the same to be surveyed, and to make return of it, the grantee paying the purchase money
and fees ofoffice.-The eighth section, which I notice in this place,
because intimately connected with the third section, directs the
Deputy Surveyor to survey and mark the lines of the tract upon tho
application of the ,ettler. This survey, I cohceive, has no other validity thani to furnish the particular description which must accompany the application at the Land-office for a warrant.
The fourth section, amongst other regulations, protects the title of
an actual settler, against a warrant entered with the Deputy Surveyor posterior to such actual settlement.
The ninth section, referring exclusively to the lands north and
west of the Ohio, Alleghany and Conewango, declares, " that no
warrant or survey of lands within that district, shall give a title tnless the grantee has, prior to the date of the warrant, made or caused to be made, or shall, within two years after the (late of it, make
or cause to be made an actual settlement, by clearing, fiencing and
cultivating two acres at least in each hundred1 acres, erecting thereon. ahouse for the habitation of man, and residing, or ct's1inv ruin-

FEBRUARY, 1805.

47

The land is to be granted to other actual settlers-- HumExothis term is explained in the 5th and 10th sections, and PrI'sLESSzr

means those who were actually on the land and had
begun their settlement. The commonwealth could
not grant these lands to actual settlers unless there was
0

ly to reside thereon for five years next followinghis first settling the
same, if he shall so long live, and in default of such actual settlement and residence, other actual settlers may acquire title thereto."
Let us now consider this case, as if the law had stopped here.
A title to the land in controversy lying north and wcst of the Ohio,
Alleghafty and Conewango, could ba acquired in no other manner
than by actual settletivnt-no sum of money could entitle a person to
a warrant, unless the application was preceded by actual settlement
on the land, orif not so preceded by actual settlement, the warrant
would give no title unless it were followed by such settlement
within two years thereafter.
The question then is, what constitutes stlch an actual settler
within the meaning and intention of this law, as will vest in him an
inceptive title so as to authorise the granting to him a warrant ?
not a pedisr positio-not the erection of a cabin, the clearing or cultivation of a field. These acts maydeserve the name of imprcments,
but not settlmrt~zt. There must be an occupancy accompanied
with a boa fide intention to reside and live upon the land, either in
person or by thatof his tenant-to make it the place of his habitation, not at some distant day, but at the time he is improving ; for
if this intention be only future, either as to his own personal residence or that of a tenant, then the execution of that intention by
such actual residence fixes the date ; the commencement of the
settlement, and the previous improvements will stand for nothinir
in the calculation.'
The eredtion of a house, and the clearing and cultivating the
ground, all or either of them may aflbrd evidence of the quo animo with which it was done-of the intention to settle, but neither
or all ail constitute a settlement, if unaccompanied by residence.
Suppose, then, improvements made, the person making them, declaring at the time, 'that they were intended for temporary purposes of
convenience, and not with a view to settle and reside; couldthis be
called an actual settlement within the meaning and intention of the
legislature? Surely no: Bu-t though such acts against express declarations of the quo anitI c will not make a settlement, it does
not follow that the converqe of the proposition will-for a declaration of an intention to settle without actually carrying that inteution
into execution, will not constitute an actua settlement.
How do these principles apply to the case of the plaintiff. In
1793, he leaves the fort at whichi he was stationed, and in which he
was an officer, with a few soldiers ; cuts down some trees, erects
four or five pens (for not being covered they do not deserie the name
of cabins) Aud in fire., six or seven days. having accomplished this

v

DouGLASS.

48
lIeua

o-

E'SLE5ssE

DOUGLASS.
\rant

SUPREME COURT, U. S.

a private right of entry-for there cannot be actual settlement without actual entry. These expressions of
the act imply as complete a right of entry, as a waritself. By the act of the 22d of April, 1794, vol.
3. p. 581, 636, no warrant can be obtained for unim-

proved lahds.
ment.

There must be a previous actual settle-

work, he returns into the fort to his former place of residence.Why did he retreat so precipitately ? We hear of no danger existing at the time of completing these labours which did not exist.
during tile time he was .eng::ged in them. What prevented him
from proceeding to cover the cabins and from i'nhabiting them ?Except the state of general hostility which existed in that part of
the country, there is no evidence of a particular necessity for
flight in the instance' of this plaintifl: It is most obvioiis that the
object of his visit to this wilderness was to erect, what he considered to be improvements; but they were, in fact, uninhabitable by
a human being, and consequently could not have been intended tor
a present settlemeat. He was, besides, an officer ih the army, and
'whilst in that service he could not settle and reside at his cabin,
although the country had been in a state of perfect tranquillity. In
short, his whole conduct, both at that time and afterwards-his
own statements when asserting a title to the lands, the recitals
in his warrants of acceptance, and certificates of survey, all afford proof which is irresistible, that he did not mean in 1793, to
settle. Mistaking the law, as it seems many others have (lone in
this respect, he supposed that an improvement was equivalent to a
settlkement, for vesting a right to those lands. It is not pretended,
even now, nor is it proved by a single witness, not even by Crouse,
who assisted in making the improvements, that he contemplited a
settlement. it has been asked, could the legislature have meant to
require pcrsnns to sit down for a moment on lands encompassed by
dangers from a savage enemy 1I- answer no :-at such a time it
was very improbable that men would be found rash enough to make
settlements.-But yet no title could be acquired without such a settlement, anti if mcn were found hardy enough to brave the dangers of a savage wilderness, they might be called imprudent men,
hut they would also deserve the promised reward, not for their
boldness, btit for their settlement.
The first evidence we have of an intention in the plaintiff to
make an actual settlement was in the spring of 1796, long after the
actual. bonafide settlement of the defendant with his family, fnr I
give no credit to the notice from the plaintiff to the defendant in
July, 1795, since, so far from accompanying it with actual settle.
ment, he speaks of a futme settlement which, however, was never
carried into execution. Every thing which I have said with respect
to the 400 acres surveyed in'the name of George Balfour will apply afortioriagainst the three other surveys in the name of Elizabeth Balfour, &c. who, it is not pretended, were ever privy even to
the making- of the cabins, or ever contemplated a settlement upon
those lands.

1EBRUARY, 1805.
It. is not necessary that any act should be done on the HutDoKoV.
part of the commonwealth, becatse there is no title to ""a's Ls"

be defeated.

But if she is bound to do any act, the

act of the actual settler is her authorised act.

He can-

not be a trespasser, because land was vacant.
. If the law then had stopped at the prqviso, it is clear that the
plaintiff'never made such a settlement as would entitle him to a
warxant. But he excuses himself from having made tuch a sele*ment as the law required, by urging the danger to which any person attempting a residence in that country, would have been exposed. He relies on the proviso to the ninth section of the law
which declares "That if any such actual settler, or any grantee in
any such original orsucceedin'g warrant shah, by force of arms of the
enemies of the United States, be prevented from makingsuch actual
settlement, or be driven therefrom, and shall persist in his endeayours to make such actual "settlementas aforesaid, then, in either
case, he and his heirs shall be entitled to have, and to hold, the
said lands in the same manner as if each actual settlement had been
made and continued." Evidence has been given of the hostile state
of that country, during the years 1793, 1794, 1795, andthe danger
to which settlers woull have been exposed. We know that the
treaty at Fort Grenville was signed on the 3d of August, 1795, and
ratified the 22d of December in the same year :-although Meade
settled with his familyin November, 1795, it is not conclusive proof
that there was no danger even then, and at any rate, it would require some little time and preparation, for those who had been driYen offi, to return to their settlements, and if the cause turned upon the question whether the plaintiff had persevered fit his exertions to return and make such settlement, as the law requires, I
should leave that question to the jury, upon the evidence they have
heard But the plaintiff, to entitle himself to the benefit of the provisoiishould have had an incipient title at some time or other, and
this could only have been created by actual settlement preceding
the necessity which obliges him to seek the benefit of the provimo
--- or by warrant.
I do not mean to say that lhe must have had such an actual settle nent as this section requires, to give a perfect title, fbr if he had
built a cabin, and commenced his improvement in stich manner, atoafford evidenceofab&nafld intention to reside, and had leien forced off by the enemy, at any stage of his labours, persevering at all
proper times afterwards, in endeavours to return, when le might
safely do so, he would have been saved by the proviso. But it is incumbent on the plairtiff, if lie would excuse himself fron te performance of what has been correctly called a condition precedent, to
bring himself fully and fairly within the proviso which msas made
for his benefit :-this he has not done.
Decisions in the Supreme Court and in the Common Pleas of thi6
State h:ve been cited at the Bar, two of which I shall notice for the
purpose of pointing out the pecaliar mark wlhich distinguishes them
fron the present, and to prevent uiy conclusions from being dr-awn

Vol. IlL

H

DOUoLASS.

SUPREME COURT LT. S,
II'TVDEo.
Jkift'S LESSEE

V.
'*o. *

By the 15th section of the act, certain holders ofwar.
rants theretofore granted are authorised to locate them,
in any district of vacant land in the State, provided that
Sthe
owners of such warrants "shall be tinder the same
regulatio'ns and restrictions, as other owners bf warrafits
taken for lands lying north and west of the Alleghany
river and Conewango creek, are made subject by this
act;" that is, thdv are to make their settlement in two
years from the date of their warrants, althoug4 their
,warrants were more than two years old when the act
from what has been said either to countenafice or impeach those
decisions. The cases I allude to are the Holland Company v,Coke,
and the feigned issue tried at Sunbury.
The incipient title under which thit plaintiffs claimed in those
causes were warrants auth.rtsed by the third section of the law.
The incipient title in the present case is settlimient. The former
was'to be completed by settlement, survey, and patent. This to precede the warrant, and for the most distinct /lxplanation of this distinction it will be important to ascertain what acts will constituic
an actual settler to whom a warrant may issue, and what constitute
an actual settlement as the foundation of a title. I have before explained who may be an actual settler to demand a warrant, namely
one who has gone upon and occupied land with a bonafidc intention
of an actual present residence, although he should have been conipelled.to abandon his settlement by the pubhi enemies in the first
stages of his settlement :-bit actual settlement, intended by the 9th
section, consists in clearing, fencing, and, cultivating two acres of
grbund at least on each one hundred acres, erecting a house thereon, fit for the habitation of man and a residence continued for five
vears next following his first
settling, if he shall so long live. This
kind of settlement more properly deserves the name of' improve.
,nents, as the diffbrent acts to be performed clearly import. This
will satisfactorily explain what at first appeared to be an abstirdity
in that part oftlie proviso which declares that " if such actual 'jet.
ier shall be prevented from making such actual settlemzent," &c.
the plain meaning is, that if a person has once occupied land -with
n intention of residing, though lie has neither cleared or fenced
any land, and is forced oil' by the en~emies of the United Statep befirc he could make the improvements, and continue thereon for fave
years ; having once had an incipient title, he shall be excused by
the necessity which prevented his doing what the law required(,
and in the m~anncr required :-or if the warrant holder who likewise
has an incipient title .althoughhe never put his foot upon the land
shall be prevented by the same cause from making these improve.
ments, &c. he too shall be excused ii, as is required also of the settler, he has persevered in his endeavours to make those improvemnents, &c.
But whit it becomes such a grantee to do before he can claim a
patent, or even a good title, is qjuite another question, upon which I
91%C no oimnion.

FEBRUARY, 18o.

51

passcd. This can only be done by giving a construction to this section similar to that which we contend
ought to.be given to the 9th.
TV. Tilghman, on the same side.
The treasury of Pennsylvania
the sales of lands between 1784
most that has been received from
under the act of 1792, including
triangle, is 500,000 dollars.

was overflowing by
and 1792. '1 he utthe sale of the lands
the tract called the

There are two descriptions of persons contemplated
by the act. 1st. The monied men who could procure
settlerm-and, 2d. the hardy but poor actual suttler, who
was to have a credit of ten years for his purchase money.
The State did not want money ; but a barrier. Population, and not revenue, was the object.The actual settlement of the land was the .sine qua non
As to the plaintifPs surveys and warrants, they cMnnot give him a
title. Not the surveys. 1st. Because they are-a Tnere description
of the land which the surveyor is authorised by the eighth section
to make, and the applicant for the warrant is airected by the third
section to lodge in the Land Office at the time he applies for the
warrant. It is merely a demarcation, a special location of the land
intended to be appropriated, :od gives notice of the bounds thereof,
that others mav be able to make adjoining locations without danger

of interference ; this is not such a survey as is returnable so as to lay
the foundation of a patent. 9d. It is unof authorised by a warrant.
3d. It was not for an actual settler. 4th. It was not made by an
authorised surveyor, if you believe, uponthe evidence, that the authortv to Steel was antedated, and given after the survey was returned.-Not the warrant.

1st. Because it was not a warrant of title,

but of acceptance. 2d. It is not founded on settleinent but imprrvc.
-nent, and if it had recited the consideration to be actual settlement,
the recital would have been false in fact, and could have produced
no legal valid consequence.
As to the caveat; the effcct of it was to close the doors of the
Land Office against the further progress of the plaintifll'in perfecting
his title. The dismission of it again opened the door, but still the
question as to title is open for examination in ejectment, if brought
-Within six months, and the patent will issue to the successful party.
The plaintiff, therefore, having failed to show a title sufficient to
enablehim to recover in this action, it is unnecessary to say any thing
about the defendant's title and your verdict ought to bt for the dec
fendant.

The jury found for the defendant.

1lUDE=O

V .e'sLes,"
DoUGLAss.

SUPREME COU1RT U. S.
HUvi-IvidPEn'S LESSEE
V.
DOTGLASS.

This appears from the whole tenor of
the act itself, as well as from the general circumstances and policy of the State.
of the contract.

The term actual settler has twro different significations, as used in the act. But there can be no settlement without actual personal residence. An actual
settler sometimes means a person who is 'on the land
with an intent to remain-and sometimes it means,
fencing, clearing, cujtivating, building, and residing
By the act of 30th December, 1786, 2
five years.
vol. p. 488, it is declared, " that by a settlement shall
be understood, an actual, personal, resident settlement,
with a manifest intention of making it a place of
abode, and the means of supporting a family, and
continued from time to time, unless interrupted by the
enemy, or by going on the military service of this
Thus, the word settlement,
country during the war."
in the 8th section, is used in its common acceptation. It
is merely the inception of title ; but the settlement mentioned in the 9th section, is the completion of title. The
9th section was intended to define more exactly what
kind of settlement should vest a title.
There being then no settlement without residence,
and no time of residence prescribed,' except the five
years, if there has not been such a residence, there
has been no residence, and if no residence, no settlement. Settlement, therefore, includes both improvement and residence.
Every tract of 400 acres Was to be specifically settled. The misfortune of the Holland Company was,
that they undertook an impossibility. They had
gaged to settle 1162 tracts in two years.
The words " in default," &c. show that 'settlement
was the main object. It is improbable that theproviso should be intended totally to defeat the great object
of actual settlement ; and yet that would be its effect,
if the war should continue for two years, which, at the
time of passing the act, was a very probable event.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

53

Much reliance has been placed on the words "as if;"
yet on our construction we allow them their full effect.
The settlement was to be made in two years ; but says
the proviso, if you shall be prevented from making it
within two years, and persist until it be accomplished,
you shall hold the land as if it hadbeen made' within
the two years according to the enacting clause.

HU"'DEKO.
PER'S I,L.SE

But if persisting two years in time of war gives a complete title, the' proviso gives the purchaser in time of war
better terms, than the enacting clause gives to a purchaser in time of peace. For the latter is obliged to settle
and reside five years, while the former gets the land with,
out any such condition.
But say they, the proviso operates in favour of those
only who have been prevented from iniproving. Suppose
a man has improved, but is driven away before the end
of his five years' residence: upon their construction
he would lose his land, while that of the man who has
done nothing would be saved.
We admit that persistance is not required during the
war'; for it would be idle to impose unavailing efforts;
and- the question, what is persistance? would open a door
:to endless litigation. One jury would decide one way
and another the contrary. The persisting is to begir%
when the war cfases.
If actual settlement means only improvement, it would
be absurd to say made and continued. The wordcontinued cannot apply to a thing which when once done is
done forever.
There was the same reason for settlement after the war,
as during its existence.
Ingersoll, in Reply.
Three questions arise in this case.
1st. Are endeavours persisted in, accepted by the act as
a substitute for actual settlement and residence ?

V.

DOUGLASS,

auPREME COURT U. S.

2d. For what period must those endeavouis bc contira'si.rsst.
nued, so as to operate asa dispensation with the conuiV.
tion, and amount to such substitute ?
DocGLASS.
'iEr',o-

3d. If a forfeiture has heen incurred, who is to talre
advantage of it? Actual settlers, or the commonweahh ?

1st. Does the act contemplate a persistance in endcayours as a substitute for actual settlement and resdtnie ?
It may be necessary first to ascertain the meaning of
the words improvenlent, settlement and residence, both in
their general import, and in the appropriate sense in
which they are used in the act of 1792.
By improvement is understood clearing, cultivating,
or building on land previously unappropriated. In (cIgrec
it is infinitely various, from the blazing of a tree viLh a tomahawk to the highest degree of cultivation.
The first improver has generally been favoured in Pennsylvania. But by the present act he has no pretertnce,
except in cbrtain specified cases.
Improvement and settlement are not convertible terms.
There may be improvement without settlement, but
there cannot be -settlement without improvement.
Settlement, in the order of things, is subsequent to imIt signifies a place on
provement, and includes it.
which a person lives after having made an improvement,
with or without his family.
Whenever the residence commences, the settlement
is computed from the time that the improvement was
first tenanted.
The act of assembly adopts words of a previously as.
'ertained import. Warrant, survey, improvement and
settlement were an inception of and gave to the warrantee
a defeasible title. The patents were not to issue until
after five vears' residence, when the right was complete
and indefeasible.
Payment of the purchase money, warrant and survey
gave a defeasible title, inchoate, and possessor). Thi-

FEBRUARY, 1805.

55

right, whatever it was, was liable to forfeiture by a non. Hunznic:.
compliance, with the terms of the act. Residence is a VE R'S LESSr
continued settlement.
])oUGLAS.
Improvement, as described in the act, settlement, and
residence 'for five years next following the first settlement,
were conditions precedent, not to a possessory, but to an
absolute title, unless prevention by war should furnish
an excuse.
That improvement, settlement, and residence are
used in the act as successive, and distinct terms is evident from the act itself.
The 5th section speaks of land settled and improved;
the 7th of actual settlement and improvement-and the
9th of actual settlement and residence; and of actual settlement made and continued.
The settlement, including .such an improvement as is
described in the law, is to commence within "tvoyears
from the date of the warrant. The residefice for five years
is to commence from the first settling. Hence residence
is a continuation of settlement' not a constituent part of it.
It is true that the legislature, when declaring by what
means a settlement shall be made, have included a residence of five years, but the absurdity of including a residencq of five years in a settle'meni to be made in two
years, evidently shows that they have admitted an error
in their language. It is clear that they do not mean what
they say, and the question is, what did they mean to say?
To make the least possible alteration in the words so as to
express their meaning is to substitute the future tense for
the participle-shall reside, instead of" residing." This
removes all the difficulties of the language and throwgreat light upon the whole act. TI-e sentence will then read
thus : "no warrant shall vest any itle in the lands unless
the grantee shall, within two years from the date of such
warrant, make an actual settlement thereon by clearing,
fencing and cultivating at least two acres for every hundred, erectingthereon a messuage forthe habitation of man,
and shall reside thereon for the space of-five years next
-following his first settlingof the same." If then the word
" residing" be r~jected for its substitute, shal reside.

56
HvinrmoPER'SLESszE

DOUQLASS.

SUPREME COURT U, S.

there is nothing in the act to justify the proposition that
setdement includes five years' residence. There is not
another Word in the whole act which can suggest such an

~ idea: on the contrary, there are many expressions totally
repugnant to the supposition.
Having thus endeavoured to ascertain the meaning of
the terms, improvement, settlement and residence, let
us consider the meaning of the proviso.
'We contend that if the grantee has, by force of arms
of the enemies of the United States, been prevented from
making an actual settlement within two years 'after tho
date of his warrant, having during that time persisted in
his endeavours to make such settlement such persistance,
though ineffectual, is accepted as .a substitute for actual
settlement and residence.;
We admit that it was with a hope that hardy adventurers would effect an establishment reaching from the Ohio
to lake Erie, and cut off the intercourse between the
northern and the western Indians, that the assembly of
Pennsylvania passed the law in question, It was at a time
when the President of the United States was preparing to
hold a treaty of peace with the western Indians at Detroit;
and in the same session they authorised the emploment
of a military force to aid and strengthen those who were
exposed on the frontiers. We agree that it was to encou
rage the immediate actual residence of bold but poor men,
that the legislature required no purchase money for ten
years from such as p/aded themselves upon the lands and
began settlements. To this description of adver1nturtrs,
they gave a further security by protecting them against
all warrants not entered in the boos of'the surveyor of
the district at the time the §ettler fixed himself on the land.
From such 4s inclined to pay money and operate by placing tenants on the land and giving such'tenants bounties
for settling, they required a prompt co-operation with
the actual settlers in accomplishing the great undertaking.
Let it be recollected that the person who claimed by
actual settlement could hold but one tract, the warrantholder as many as he could pay for, using only differ-

FEBRUARY, 1805.

ant names which is perfectly known to be but matter HuixzIt6of for'in.. The warrantees were obliged to place a settler "s's Lssr
on each tract within two years from the date of the war- DoUGLASS.
rat, if there should be peacef and at all events to be
ready, and make the attempt to support the settlers, if
the war should continue. Thus they made, it the interest of both~descriptions, operators with money, 'and
operators with labour, to make a joint and steady effort
for two years to realize-the expectations formed of this
new barrier.
Here it may not be improper to remind the court
that, as the law of Pennsylvania then stood, any alien
might purchase and hold-land in that state. It has been
said.that the act was not intended to give an opportu.
nity for speculation; it was certainly intended that foreigners should buy any quantity of land, to the extent of their means of payment.
.We do not wish to treat this subjecttechnically-but
eros *the very nature of the property, and the condition, as expressed in the law, the grantee has a right
to enter -upon the land, maintain suits for 'its recovery or defence, take the profits, alienate, moktgage
it, bind it by suffering judgments, transmit it to heirs,
subject only to the conditions of the original grant.
Suppose there had been no proviso: take the enactinj clause of the -section absolutely by itself, what
would be the condition of the holders of warrants,
dated iri 1792, and 1793
The warrantee might enter, fiay, he
ivas bound to
enter, by the nature of. his grant--the public enemy
prevents him.-The state and the United States are
unable -toprotect him. Without any laches in him,, the
performance of the condition becomes impossible by
the act of-the public enemy. Woiid the common lawt
say that the- estate should be lost?
Are not these conditions what the law terms subsequent ? If precedent, no interest could arise. The
warrantee could exert no act of 61vnership, until the
Vol: I.

T

SUPREME COURT U. S.
I1U-KO- conditions were all performed. Here, his performance
PER'S LESSEE depends upon his being exclusively the possessor and
V.
DOUGLASS.

owner.

In one sense of the word, all conditions are preeedent; that is, they ought to be performed before the
estate becomes absolute ; but in law, those only are
termed precedent which must be performed before the
grantee can enter upon the estate, or recover at law.
Conditions subsequent, refer to cases where the
party may immediately take and enjoy the grant, but
perform afterwards, having, in the mean time, a qualified title, and the right of possession. Is it not a
settled and a reasonable rule, that conditions tending to
defeat an estate once qualifiedly vested, shall be con.
strued strictly ? and also, that courts will hold a con.
dition to be either precedent, or subsequent, according
to the intent of the party creating it, whatever be the
form of words, and when the same words may con.
stitute either the one or the other, according to the
nature of the case?
We are to show that there is a substitute for actual
performance ; what that substitute is, will be a subject
of inquiry under the 2d head.
The legislature considered two years as a reasonable
time after the date of the warrant, in which to complete the specified improvements, in a season of peace.
A distint wilderness was to be explored, provisions
to be collected and transported ; clearing, cultivating,
and building, where ltbourers were scarce, were difficult and of slow progress. Actual settlement within,
two years Was of indispensable necessity, in'
order to
obtain full title, unless prevented by the enemies of the
United States.
The question then offered itself to the legislature,
'shall the continuance of the war release the condition,
4nd-endeavours be equivalent to performance ?

FEBRUARY, 1805.
We contend that the principle of the proviso is,

that if the warrantee does what he can according to
circumstances, he shall not be injured on account of
the war, nor thereby be delayed in the acquisition of
his title.
The price of the lands, and the terms of purchase,
were fixed upon the basis of peace. Twenty dollars
per hundred acres, with the condition of settlement and
residence was a full consideration in a time of peace.
The legislature could not expect to get better terms
in a time of war. As the price was to be the same in
war and peace, the modification, must be in the terms
ef the condition of settlement and residence.
If with the same price you exact similar conditions
of settlement and residence at an indefinite aistance
of time, and after an intervening war, during the
whole of which you fequire a constant persistance in
endeavours to make such settlement, you, in effect,
increase, you double or multiply the sum to be paid as
the'consideration of the land; and in addition -to the
original terms of price, settlement and residence, you
gain the use of the money, and the co-operation of
individuals in forming that barrier; which was one of
the great objects of the act; the purchaser loses both
the interest of his money and the use of his land. It
is impossible, therefore, to require endeavours during,
and accomplishment after the war, and that the purchaser does not pay a higher price for'the land on account of the war.
It becomes important to consider whether the en.
deavours were to be persisted in during the war; for
we have been lately told for the first time, that peivst,
means desist during the war, and after the war it again
means persist.
It is adftiitted that a frontier of hardy inhabitants to
oppose against the incursions of the savage enemy
was a leading consideration with the legislature; it
was natural for them to wish attempts to settle might
be made during the war. It was acknowledged to be

HuzmE.o.
PzFt'S LSSEEZ
DouGLASL

SUPREME COURT U. S.
14

,07Z-o-

ER'S-LESSEM
V.
DOUOLASS.

\.w-Nem./

unreasonable that the hazardous experitnent should be
made at the expense of the adventurers. The event
was doubtful. Hopes of success were however en.
tertained.

Thd law contemplated the disposal of two

millions of acres. What number of persons might be
induced to share in its undertaking, was uncertain.
But the words of the act admit of no doubt that the
persisting was to be in a time of war. If the grantee
shall be prevented by the enemy, and shall -persist in
his endeavours-that is, in his endeavours to surmount the obstacle which prevented the settlement,
namely, the force of arms of the enemies of the United
States, hen, &c.
2d. What is the period of time during which the
'medeavours were to be continued, in order to effect a
release of the condition, and amount to a substitute for
performance?
As twb years from the date of the warrant was the
time in which the settlement was to be milde, if there
had been no prevention, we say that perseverance in
endeavours during the'same period in a time of war,
was all which the legislature required;
Because, without tle proviso, the estate of the grantee
would then have become absolute at common law, and
the proviso, being ibr the benefit of the grantee, shall not
place him in a worse situation than if it had not been in#
serted.
Because, to adopt the principle which is urged against
us, that we ought to commence in a reasdnable time after
the removal of the force; is worse than forfeiture, as it
.introduces infinite confusion and endless controversy.
Because, taking possession, clearing, fencing, cultivating and building, are no where in the law required of the
warrante after two years fR.om the date of the warrant,
and persjistance xmust relate tQ the ac of taking and maintaining possession,

FEBIUARY, 18g5.

61

Because, the law does not provide for -cases of inter- Hfilnnxo.
raption by war for more than two years; and to require PEa' LESSz
longer efforts would be lngthening the persistance to the Do1oULA.5
end of the war, and five years afterwards; which would
be inconsistent with the last clause of the proviso, giving
absolute estates alter certain persistance had failed. And,
Because, if the persistance had been construed to be
indefinite, no man of any prudence among ourselves,
and no foreigner or individual, would have advanced a
dollar on those lands.
No man could, on that idea, conjecture when he might
get a title - the war might continue ten years; the country might be restored to the Indians for a stipulated time ;
or settlements might have been prohibited by the United
States ; ahd in all these events the purchaser ivould have
lost his money and labour.
The legislature departed from the common law, in requiring a persistance during the war. For what purpose?
To carry a favourite point. An establishment of settlers
from Presqu' isle to the Ohio. What do they promise for
this extra requisition? An absolute title, if the exertions
for two years should be ineffectual;
But he is to " persist in his endeavours to make such
actual settlement as (Lforesaid;" that is, within two years
from the date of the warrant. No other kind of settlement, and no other time is prescribed. But he cou!d not
persist to make such actual settlement within tv o years
from the date of the warrant, after those two years had
expired ; and a settlement made after the two years could
not have availed.
3d. If the persistance must be for more than two
kears, when will it end ? Where is the term at which the
legislature has said the estate shall become absolute? If
the grantee get possession at the end of the five years,
must he go still further and reside five years ? There can
be no pretence for persisting five years, because, without
a settlement made, there is no epoch fiom which the five
years are to begin to run; and there can be no settlement
mnade but within two years frqm the date of the warrant.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
11iDEvo.

PFa'S LrSSErE

V.e

If no settlement within the two years, no question cait
ever arise respecting the five years.
c

DOUGLAS.

4th. If the proviso has any meaning different from
the common law, respecting force of arms of a public
enemy, it certainly means to impose a new duty upon
the grantee, and to give him an equivalent.
What was the new duty? Persistance for two years,
whether the country was at peace or war.
What was the equivalent ? Substitution of ineffectual,
though sincere persistance in endeavours for actual settlement.
What was the motive for this departure from the common law ? A sanguine hope of removing the eneniy to a
great distance from our old settlements, by blocking'up
the pass through which they so easily entered.
With this construction of the act, every proceeding of
the state, and of the grantees, will perfectly harmonize.
But if the meaning be doubtful, and resort should be
had to the common law, such a construction would be
made, as might confirm the estate, and quiet a bona fide
purchaser ; and no construction could possibly be adopted
'which would repeal such an express stipulation in favour
of the grantee, as is contained in the last clause of the pro.
viso.

5th. If a fQrfeiture has incurred, or if the title has reverted to the state, by the deftult of the grantee, by
whom can advantage be taken ? By individuals or by the
state, and in what method?
We contend by the state only. And we rely upon general principles-on the reason and convenience of the
thing--on the express provisions of the legislature,' and
on the decisions of the state judges, without a dis~entient
voice, or the expression of a .doubt.
If any individual may enter upon the tenant of the
1lollqnd Company whenever he shall choose to say that

FEBRUARY, 1805.
the settlement is not completed in due time, they may be HuzDzro.
disposscssed of every. foot of land they have taken up. R'S
Numbers and strength are against them.
DouG.Lass.
It is a general principle of law; that the commonwalth
can only take by inquest of office, of entitling, or of instruction. The title of the sovereign must appear on record..
This rule is founded in good sense and propriety, and
is inforced, in this instance, by a further rule, that whoever comes into possession with tide, or by law, shall not
be dispossessed without process.
If uninformed individuals, under the influence of bias,
and passion, are to decide the question of forfeiture, and
to enter on the lands at their discretion, stay as long as
they please before they apply for a warrant, and so in
succession, upon the idea either of forfeiture or failure
in persistance in endeavours to settle, innumerable mischiefs and endless confusion will indeed ensue.
The legislature foresaw the great inconveniences that
would result from constituting every needy adventurer a
judge of their meaning in this law, and have, therefore,
marked out the mode in which advantage shall be taken
of a default in the grantee, by providing, that in default
of actual settlement and residence the commonwealth
may grant new warrants to other actual settlers. The
commonwealth, thercbre, is to be satisfied in the first
place that the default has been made, and in the second
place, that the applicant is such an actual settler as may
purchase, and in the third place, a warrant must issue to
e applicant before he can have any right to enter.
By the terms other actualsettlers, the legislature meant
persons who were willing to come under engagements to
settle; persons who will purchase the land subject to the
condition of settlement ; or, in the language of the second
section of the act, "1who will cultivate, improve, and settle the same," not who have cultivated, improved and
settled; or in the language, of the 3d section, " who are
desirousto settle.and imnprove."

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HuiDEKo-

Lewvis, on the same side.

"nER)SLESSEE

V.
DOUGLASS.

The proviso does not relate to the residence. A settlement may be made aid not continued. If a man, has
completed his settlement, and is driven off by the enemy
before he has finished the five years' residence, we
say the residence is dispensed with ; for he is only to
persist in endeavours tomake the settlement; and if the
settlement is already made, he cannot be required to persist in his endeavours to make it. 'That Oart of the proYiso, therefore, relative to persistance, does not appy to
him who has finished his settlement The proviso as to
him wil read thus, that if such actual settler shall be
driven from his settlement, he shall be entitled to hold in
the same manner as if the settlement had been continued.
Our construction, therefore,-does not involve the consequence which gentlemen have supposed.
There is a passage of the act which has not been noticed, and which strongly implies that residence is not
included in settlement. It is this': "And that in default
of such actual settlement and residence, it shall and may
be lawful to and for this commonwealth to issue new warrants to other actual settlers for the said lands, or any part
thereof, reciting the original warrants, and that actual
settlements and residence have not been made in pursuance thereof, andso as often as defaults shall be made."
If settlement -includes the five .ears' rtgidence, then an
actual settler is a person who hasmade an actual settlemt-nt by clearing, fencing, cultivating, building and r'siding five years on the land. If on default the commonwealth is to grant the land to such an actual settler only,
there never can be but one default, because the second
warrantee will have complied with all the requisites for a
full and absolute title bfore the warrant is granted. The
words, and so as often as defaults shall be made, would, in
such case, be nugatory and nonsenical.
No argument can be drawn from the 15th section ; for
it does not follow that because one section requires a particular constructioi different words, relative to a different
subject in another section, must have a similar construction. It onhy shows, what we all ahgree is the fact, that the
act is very inaccurately drawn, and cannot be understood
wrrording t6 it-, strict kIttcr.

FEBRUARY,

1805.

Wednesday, February 27.

ITUInzEo.
PZt I'S V*
LESSX!

MARSHALL,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the court

as follows :
Tlfe questions which occurred in this case, in the
circuit court of Pennsylvania, and on which the opinion of this court is required, grow out of the act
passed by the leg*slature of that state, entitled " an
act for the sale of tle vacant lands within this commonwealth."
Tke 9th section of that act, on which the case principally depends, is in these words, " and be it further

enacted," &kc.

The questions to be considered, relate particularly to
the proviso of this section ; but to construe that correctly, it will be necessary to understand the enacting
clause, which states what is to be performed by the
purchaser- of a warrant, before the title to the lands
described tberein, shall vest in him.
Two classes of purchasers are contemplated.
The one has already performed every condition of
the sale, and is about to pay the consideration money;
the other pas the consideration money in the first instance, and is afterwards to perform the conditions.
They are both described in the same sentence, and
from each, an actual settlement is required as indispensable to the completion of the title.
'In describing this actual settlement, it is declared that
it shall be made, in the case of a warrant previously
granted, within two )ears next after the date of such
warrant, " by clearing, fencing, and cultivating, at
least, two acres for every hundred acres contained in
one survey, erecting thereon, a messuage for the habitation of man, and residing. or causing a family to
reside thereon, for The space of five years next follovinig his first settling of the same, if he or she shalR
so long live."
Vol. I1.

DooGL.S.

66

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The manifest impossibility of completing a resi.
dence of five years, within the space of two years,
would lead to an opinion, that the part of the descrip.
GLAss.
~ tion relative to residence, applied to those only iho"
had performed the condition before the payment of
the purchase money ; and not to those who were to perform it afterwards. But there are subsequent parts of
the act which will not admit of this construction, and,
consequently, residence is a condition required from
the person who settles under a warrant, as well as from
one who entitles himself to a warrant by his .settlement.

RuDzKoPER'S

Do

.ESSEE

The law requiring two repugnant and incompatible
things, is incapable of receiving a literal construction,
and must sustain some change of language to be rendered intelligible. This change, however, ought to be as
small as possible, and with a view to the sense of the legislature, as manifested by themselves. The reading
suggested by the counsel for the plaintiff, appears to be
most reasonable, and to comport best with the general
language of the section, and with the nature of'the
subject. It is by changing the participle into the future tnse of the verb, and instead of, " and residing,
or causing a famiy to re.'ide there," and shall reside,
&c. The effect of this correction of language, will
be to destroy the repugnancy which exists in the act
as it stands, and to reconcile this part of the sentence
to that which immediately follows, and which absolutely demonstrates that in the vie-w of the legilature,
the settlement and the residence consequent thereon,
were distinct parts of the condition ; the settlement to
be made within the space of two years from the date
of the warrant, and the residence in five years from the
commencement of the settlement.
This construction is the more necessary, because
the very words, " such actual settlement and residence," which prove, that residence is required from
the warrantee, prove also, that settlement and residence are, in contemplation of the law, distinct operation.. In the nature of things, and from the usual
import of words, they are also distinct. To make a

FEB1LUARY, 1805.

67

settlement, no more requires a residence of five, than HuwxPRo.
a residence of five hundred years: and of consequence, PEats Lessr.
it is much more reasonable to understand the legisla- DOUGLAS$.
ture as requiring the residence for that term, in addi- .-.'.-'
tion to a settlement, than as declaring it to be a component part of a settlement.

The meaning of the terms settlement and residence
.eing understood, the court will proceed to consider
the proviso.
That part of the act treats of an actual settler, (under which term is intended, as well the person who
makes his settlement the foundation" of his claim to a
warrant, as a warrantee who had made an actual settlement in performance of the conditions annexed to
his purchase) and of " any grantee in any such original or succeeding warrant ;" who must be considered
as contradistinguished from one who had made an actual settlement. Persons thus distinctly circumstanced,
are brought together in the same sentence, and terms
are used appropriate to the situation of each, but not
applicable to both. Thus, the idea of "1an actual settler," " prevented from making an actual settlement,"
and after "being driven therefrom," " persisting in
his endeavours," to make it, would be absurd. To
apply to each- class of purchasers, all parts of the proviso would involve a contradiction in terms. Under
such circumstances, the plain and natural mode of
construing the act, is to apply the provisions distributively to the description of persons to whom they
are adapted, reddendo singula singulis. The proviso
then would read thus, " Provided always, nevertheless, that if any such actual settler shall be driven
from his settlement, by force of arms of the enemies
of the United States ; or any grantee. in any such
original or succeeding warrant, shall, by force of arms
of the enemies of the United States, be prevented
from making such actual settlement, and shall persist
in his endeavours, to make such actual settlement as
aforesaid, then, in either case, he and his heirs shall
be entitled to have and to hold the said lands, in the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HtTzDFIoOa's

LESSRF

same manner, as if the actual settlement had been
made and continued."

V
DOUGLASS.

%siuy-nvo/

The two cases are, the actual settler, who has been
driven from his settlement, and the warrantee, who
has been prevented'from making a settlement, but has
persisted ih his endeavours to make one.
It is perfectly clear, that in each case, the proviso
substitutes something for the settlement to be made,
within two years, from the date of the warrant, and

for the residence to continue five years from the commencement of the settlement, both of which were re.
quired in the enacting clause.
What is that something?
The proviso answers, that in the case of an " actual
settler," it is his being "driven from his settlement by
force ofarmsof the enemies of the United States," and
in case of his being a grantee of a warrant not having
settled, it is "persisting in his endeavours to make such
actual settlement." In neither case, is residence or
persisting in his'endeavours, at residence required.
Yet the legislature had not forgotten, that by the enacting clause, residence was to be added to settlement ;
for in the same sentence, they say, that the person who
comes within the proviso, shall hold the land " as if
the actual settlement had been made and continued."
It is contended on the part of the defendant, that as
the time during which persistance shall continhe, is not
prescribed, the person claiming the land must persist
until he shall have effected both his settlement and re.
sidence, as required by the enacting clause of the act.
That is, that the proviso dispenses with the time, and
only with the time, (luring which the condition is to
be performed.
But the words are not only inapt for the expression
of such an intent; they absolutely contradict it.

FEBRUARY, 1805.
If the proviso be read, so as to be intelligible, it re-

HuxiDro.

quires nothing from the actual settler, who has been
LZSSZt
V."'
driven from his settlement. He is not to persist in his DoGCLCSS.
endeivours at residence, or, in other, words, to con-

tinue his settlement, but is to hold the land. From
the warrantee who has been prevented from making a
settlement, no endeavours at residence are required.
He is to " persist in his endeavour'," not to make,
and to continue suchactual settlement, but "to make
such actual settlement as aforesaid." And if he does
persist in those endeavours, he is to hold the land,
" as if the actual settlement had been made and con.
tinued." The construction of the defendant would
makr the legislature sa., in substance, that if the warrantee shall persist in endeavouring to accomplish a partic lar-object, until he does accomplish it, he should
hold the land as if he had accomplished it. But independent of the improbability, that the intention to
dispense, only with., the time in which the condition
was to be performed, would be expressed in the language which has been noticed, there are terms used,
which seem to restrict the time during which a persistance in endeavours is required. , The warrantee is to
persist in-his endeavours, " to make such actual settlement as aforesaid." Now, " such actual settlement as
afosesaid," is an actual settlement within two years
from the date of the warrant. As it could only be
made within two years, a persistance in endeavouring
to make it, coufd ouly continue for that time.
It, afteri being prevented from making an actual settlement, and persisting in endeavours, those endeayours should be,successful within the two years after
which the person should be driven off, it is asked, what
would be his situation ?
The answer is a plain one. By persisting, he has
become an actual settler ; and the part of the proviso
which applies to actual settlers, protects him.
If, after the two years, he should be driven off, he
is still protected. The application of external violence
dispenses with residence. The court feels itself bound

SUPREME COURT U. S.
11-D-0oV

DOUGLASS.

to say so, because the proviso contains a substitutet,

which, in such a state of things, shall be received instead of a performance of the conditions required by
Sthe
enacting clause ; and of that substitute, residence
forms no part.

R'S V.
LESSEE

In a great variety of forms, and with great strength,
it has been argued, that the settlement of the country
was the great object of the act ; and that tho construction of the plaintiff would defeat that object.
That the exclusive object of an act to give lands to
settlers, would be the settlement of a country, will be
admitted ; but that an act to sell lands to settlers, must
have for its exclusive object, the settlement of the
country, cantiot be so readily conceded. In attempting to procure settlements, the treasury was certainly
not forgotten. How far those two objects might be
consulted, or how far the one yielded to the other,
is only to be inferred from the words in which the legislative intention has been expressed. How far the
legislature may have supposed the peopling of the district in question, to have been promoted by encouraging actual settlements, though a subsequent residence
on them should be rendered impracticable by a foreign
enemy, can only be shown by their own language. At
any rate, if the legislature has used words, dispensing
with residence, it is not for the court to say they
could not intend it, unless there were concomitant expressions, which should explain those words in a man.
ner different from their ordinary import. There are
other considerations in favour of the construction, to
which the court is inclined.
This is a contract ; and although a state is a party,
it ought to be construed according to those well established principles, which regulate contracts generally.
The state is in the situation of a person who holds
forth to the world, the conditions on which he is willing to sell his property.

FEBRUARY,- 1805.

71

If he should couch his propositions in such ambigu-

Huinxto-

ous terms, that they might be understood differently, P'1's .IsS"C
in consequence of which, sales were to be made, and DOUGLASS:

the purchase money paid, he would come with an ill
grace into court, to insist on a latent and obscure
meaning, which should give him back his property,
and permit him to retain the purchase money. All
those-principles of equity, and of fair dealing, which
constitute the basis of judicial proceedings, require
that courts should lean against such a construction.
It being understood, that the opinion of the court
on the two first questions, has rendered a decision of
the third unnecessary, no determination respecting it
has been made.
It is directed, that the following opinion be certified
to the circuit court.
Certifcate of the Opinion.

1st. That it is the opinion of this court, that under the
act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, paised the 3d day
of April, A. D. 1792, entitled "An act for the sale of
the vacant lands within this commonwealth," the grantee,
by a warrant of a tract of land lying north and west of
tie rivers Ohio and Alleghany and Conewango creek,
who, by force of arms of the enemies of the United States,
vas prevented from settling and improving the said land,
and from residing thereon from the 10th of April, 1793,
the date ofthe said warrant, until the 1st of January, 1796;
but who, during the said period, persisted in his endeayours to make such settlement and residence, is excused
from making such actual settlement as the enacting clause
of the 9th section of the said law prescribes to vest a title
in the said grantee.

2d. That it is the opinion of this court, that a warrant
for a tract of land lying north and west of the rivers Ohio
and .Alleghany and Conewango creek, granted in the
year 1793, under and by virtue of an act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, entitled "An act for selling the
vacant lands ofthis commonwealth," to aperson, who, by
force of arms of the enemies of the United States, was

SUPREME COURT U. S.
DEYKo?ER'S LESSEE

1,

prevented from settling and improving the said land, and
from residing thereon from the date of the said warrant

.DoUGLASS.

until the 1st of January, 1796, but who, during the said
persisted in his endeavours to make such settle-

.period,

ment and residence, vests in such grantee a fee simple in
the said land, although, after the said prevention ceased,
-he did not commence, and within, the space of two years
thereafter, clear, fence and cultivate, at least two acres for
eVery hundred acres contained in his survey for the said
land, and-erect thereon a messuage for the habitation of
man, and reside, or cause -a family to reside thereon, fov
the space of five years next following his first settling of
the same; the said grantee being yet in full life.
JoHNsoN, J. I concur in the decision given by the
court in this cAse ; but thdre was a question suggested
and Sommented on in the argument which has iot been
noticed by" the court,-but which appears to me to meri
some consideration.

It was inquired by the couisel for the defendant, should
the court, adopt the principle, that persistance for two
years is to be substituted for an actual settlement and residence, what is to be the effect of a partial prevention?
Is the warrantee to be stibjected to the necessity of making good his settlement, should the prevention cease or
commence at any point of time during' the two years
without any, or under what limitation?
-It is undoubtedly true, that any construction of a sta.
tute which will produce absurqities, or consequences in
direct violatioi of its own provisions, is 'to be avoided.
It were better not to depart from their literal signification
than to involve consequences so inconsistent with the
nature and very idea of legislation. "But it does not appear to me that any embarrassment will attend the construction of this act which the court has adopted; that
the case of a partial duration of the existence.of the preventing cause is not within the view of the proviso; that
it is not excepted from.the operation of the enacting
clause. It would be absurd to impose upon the warrantee
the necessity of performing in a few months, perhaps at
the most inconvenient season of the year, a condition for
which the act proposes to hold out to him an indulgence

FEBRUARY, 1805.

73

of two years; when prevented too by a cause not within HuxDzxo.
his controul, and against which the state was bound to "1's LESSZ1
protect him. If such were the case now before the court. DourLASS.
I should be of 6pinion that we must resort to general
principles for a deision. With regard to the performance
of conditions, it is a well known rule, that obstructions
interposed by the act of God, or a public enemy, shall
excuse from performance, so far as the effect of such preventing cause necessarily extends.
in cases of partial prevention, I should tberdfore be of
opinion, that it would be incumbent upon the warrantee
to satisfy thie cpurt that he had complied with the conditions imposed by the act, so far as he was not necessarily
prevented by the public enemy.
It may appear singular that a deficiency, of a single
-day perhaps, should produce so material an alteration in
the rights or situation of the warrantee. But the legislature of Pennsylvania were fully competent to make what
statutory provisions they thought proper upon the subject ; and the court is no further responsible for the effect
of the words which they have used to express their intent, than to endeavour to give a sensible and consistent
operation to them in every case that can occur.

THE UNITED STATES v. HOOE, ET AL.*

TurnUmvz
STATRS

Saturday, February23.

' V. AnD
Hooz,
oTHzRs.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co- The United
lumbia.
States have
no

lien on the
real estate or

Mjifason, attorney of the United States for that district, their debtor
on the I 7th of August, 1801, filed a bill in equity against rut sirt
Robert T. Hooe, W. Herbert, 7ohn C. Herbei,and the rought orin.
executors, widow and heirsof Col 7ohn Fitzgerald late solvency or

coll-ctor of the customs for the port of Alexandria, and bankruptcy
taken
obtained an injunction to prevent the sale of certain real has
place; or, be.

ing unable to
*Present, Marhall, Chief Justice.-Cuaing aterion, Wtraing. pay all hit
debts, he hbi
-toi and .7ohnson, Justices.
L
Vol. m.

