FEBRUARY, 1806.

MANELLA, PUJALS, AND COMPANY
v. JAMES BARRY.

PUJALS & Co.
V.

J.

BAugy.

Ifrorega
ERROR to the cirduit court of the United States, merchants

send out, by
their genera
The action was brought by the plaintiffs in error, to agent, 'wrtdefendant,
recover from "the
factor im
fro Barry, the price of three ten ordrs
recovr
thetheir
cargoes of tobacco, purchased and shipped by Barry, for this country.
account of the plaintiffs, but which were captured on to pjurchase
their way to Spain, and condemned. The ground of the tobacco upac- t
theirbut
count,
claim was, that Barry had not strictly pursued his in-i-on
thm
ship
it
in
the
shipments.
structions as to
name of the
and by
The transcript .of the record contained two bills of factor,
those orders
the factor is
exceptions.
referred to
the verbal
In the first bill of exceptions, all the material facts communicaof the case were stated, but the exc,-ption was taken ions of tem
only to the opinion of the court, who refused to suffer generalagent,
a witness to be sworn to the jury, to prove what was who underthe true translation of a certain part of the Spanish in- takes to orde
in-te tobacco to
cerain art f th Spaish
the rueofransatio
structions, as to which the parties differed, although the be shipped i.
plaintiffs and defendant consented that the witness shohid the name of
be so sworn. This opinion, it is understood, was found- another person, and de-ed upon the idea, that the court, and not the jury,
..
I was,dares he has
the proper tribunal to decide the mcaning and construc- authority,
from the fotion of all written evidence,
reign merchants,thustto
The facts stated in the first bill of exceptions, and controuland
which were referred to in the second, presented the fol- vary their orfor the district of Maryland.

lowing case:
On the 27th of January, 1798, Bernardo Lacosta, of
Cadiz, in Spain, for and on behalf of the plaintiffs, who
were also Spanish subjects, wrote and transmitted to the
defendant, bythe hands of Juan Alonzo Menendez Conde,
a l-tter in the Spainish language, the following translation
of which, purporting to be made by a sworn translator,

was read in evidence to the jury.

ders; the fac-

tor is justified
in obeying the.
new orders of
the general
agent, though
contra
to"
the
first
%ritten order.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MAXELLA,

PUVAL,.&

J.BAMIRl.

Co.

"Cadiz, 27th January, 1798.

"To Mr. James Barry, Baltimore;
"My most esteemed friend,

"11derive a particular satisfaction in introducing to you
the bearer of this letter, Mr. Juan Alonzo Menendez
Conde, who goes to Baltimore as agent of the house
of Messrs. Manella, Pujals, & Co. of this place, principally. interested in the importation of tobacco for this
kingdQm. The confidence I have always had in you,
aid the friendship you have on all occasions manifested
for me, warrant the conclusion that you will view this
measure as your, own, and will execute it with your
wonted zeal and efficacy. Being an undertaking of considerable magnitude, a proportionable degree of economy
should be observed in the purchases, the shipments and
the reimbursements, because the least neglect may cause
an enormous loss. By the last accounts from America,
I find that tobacco has risen to a great price, but I hope
t is was only momentary. However, upon a reasonable
calculation it will not answer them at more than ten dollars per quintal, in America ; these are the limits to which
,they can go without exposing themselves to too much loss.
You will, however, consult the bearer, Mr. Menendez,
or he with ybu, and in case you should determine on an
advance of one fourth or one half a dollar more, to prevent delay1 you may do so if you think proper, being fully
convince4 if you can do it for less, that you will omit
lnothing -that may advance the interest of my friends.
With this, the said Mr.. Menendez takes an order for
twenty thousand quintals to be shipped for this place in
seven or eightvessels, and not less than six, under which
cbndition the insurance will be made here. You will
take care to seek captains of fidelity, American born,
and that all the crews be strictly agreeable to law.
"For the greater perspicuity the shipments wifl be
made in the following manner:
"1. You will lade the vessels in your own name, stating thai they are on your own account and risk, as an
American citizen, and consign them t6 this place, alter
nately to me, to. Messrs. Gah and Company, and to
Messrs. Pablo, Greppi, Marliani and Company.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

41?

"2. Your letter, by the vessel, will state that the con- MATTELLA;
signment is made on-your account ; that you order her to PUJALS & CO
Cadiz, where you hope that the consignees may be abk 1q. B.L ;
to sell, but that if the. government should not permit the

sale, or the English prevent her entry, that then the
vessel is to proceed to Genoa.
" S. That the captain carry no other letters than those
relating to the cargo, but he must have one for Charles
Longhy, of Genoa, to whom the consignment will be
made, in the supposed case of not being suffered to enter this port, or be permitted to sell here.
"4. Should the captain be prevented entering here, he
wilt put into the nearest Spanish port to this, and send
an express to the consignee.
" 5. The captain will bring the charter-party, and the
letter to cover the shipment ; that, as well as the bill of
lading, siould specify two freights, one for Cadiz, and
the other as though -the vessel was in fact destined for
Genoa.

"6. In the invoice by the vessel, you will insert all the
charges except the commission, which is understood shall
be five per cent, to be hereafter added.
"7. By the way of England you will transmit the true
invoices, adding thereto your commission.
"8. Great care should be taken, in the roledequipage,
as to the birth, age, size, &c. of the seamen, -and that it
agree in date and number with the shipping articles.
" 9. Admitting that the vessel cannot enter here, there
must-not be any excess of freight on her going to another
Spanish port; but this condition must be confidential
with the.captain, and must not appear in any document.
"110. The vessels should have Mediterranean passes,
and, in a word, all other necessary documents, thait we
may have no difficulties with the privateers there; and if
you could have the papers examined by the French,

Vol 11.
I3

H

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MANELLA,

PU.ALS

J.

&CO.

BARRY.

English, and Spanisn consuls, in your country, it nppears to me, it might serve as a great protection.
" 11. The bills of lading will be reinitted by triplicates
by the way, of London or Lisbon, to Messrs. Pablo,
(Greppi, Marliani & Co. of this place.
"As to your reimbursements you may'draw as follows,
to wit: 80,000 dollars on Don Juan de la Chappeaurouge and Urgulla, of Hamburgh; 40,000 on John
Gore and Co. of London; 40,000 on Lorla and Co. of
Amsterdam; 40,000 on A. E. and I. E. VIetzeuca and,
Koosen, of Lisbon-200,000 ; which sum you vill dis-,
pose of according to your wants, advising the persona
on!whom you draw, that it is -on account of and by order
of Messrs. Pablo, Greppi, Marliani and Co. You will
take special careto avoid drawing too large a sum at
once," and that the bills on those places be at nindty days
sight; it being always understood that in case you arc
able to negotiate upon Spain, you will draw on that country in preference on Manella, Pujals and Co. of this
place, and at 60 days sight, and then you will specify
whether it is to be paid in cash or in vales reales. Although I have already mentioned that the insurance
should be made here, yet you will make that charge in
the invoice sent as though it bad been effected by you. I
refer you to the verbal communications of the bearer on
this subject, who is sent on purpose to superintendthe
shipments ; and you will, upon the whole, act for the advantage of the interested, taking care to keep this business a secret in order to prevent a rise in ) our market,
and its being known that it is for foreigners, but always
that it is on your own account as a'n -A!aerican citizen.
"You will determine the quality of the tobacco to be
shipped, with the said Mr. Menendez. It should be
well assorted, -very sound and dry, though ii does not
appear necesary that it should be all of the best quality.
"In order to avoid every unforeseen accident, in case
any of the said houses should not accept the draughts
above mentioned, which I do not apprehend, you will .
point out to the holders to present them to Messrs.
Greppi, Marliani & Co. who will accept and domlicile

FEBRUARY, 1806.

419

them with our friends of the same place, as has been 1M[A.nMLLA,
agreed on, and the said Messrs. Greppi have written to PLjA.Ls &Co.
this effect to their correspondents. But we all flatter j. lj^Ra .
ourselves that this case will not occur.
"I remain,, as always, your affectionate friend,
(Signed)

"BERNARDO

LACOSTA."

This letter was delivered by Menendez on the 22d
of March, 1798, to the'defendant, whb,. in pursuance
thereof, purcha~d 1,328 hogsheads of tobacco, containing, in the Whole, 1,838,393lbs. and amounting,
exclusive of charges, to the sum of 180,824 dollars and
77 cents, and including charges, other than freight,
insurance and commissions, to the sum of 204,077
dollars and 77"cents. This tobacco was shipped in the
following manner:
On the 28th of April, 1798, 62 hogsheads, amounting, with costs and charges, to 8,846 dollars and 36
cents, by the Moorish brig Muqueni, regularly documented as a Moorish vessel, and navigated by
subjects of the emperor of Morocco, shipped for
account and risk of the defendant, a citizen of the
United States, and consigned to Messrs. Gahn & Co.
.at Cadiz.
On the 18th of May, 1798, 270 hogsheads, amounting to 27,868 dollars and 35 cents, by the brig Minerva,
a Danish vessel, regularly documented as such, navigated by Danish subjects, shipped for -account and
risk of the defendant, a citizen of the United States,
and consigned to Messrs. Pablo, Greppi; Marliani &
Co. at Cadiz.
Or- the 26th of May, 1798, 500 hogsheads, amounting to 60,914 dollars and 56 cents, by the ship Polly and
INancy, an American vessel, regularly documented as
such, and navigated by citizens of the United States,
shipped for account and risk of the defendant, a citizen
of the United. States, and consigned to Bernardo Lacosta, at Cadiz.

SUPREME COURT U., S.
MANFLLA,
PUJALS & CO.

J. BIRY.
y

On the loth of J.ly, 1798, loo hogsheadsi amounting to 13,876 dollars an4t48 cents, 'by the schooner Pe.'
licity, an American, vessel, regularly documented as
such, and navigated by Afmerican citizens, for account
and.risk of Don Carlos Longhy, -of Genoa, and consigned to-Messrb. Gahn & Co. at Cadiz.
On the 23d of July, 179d, 117 hogsheads, amounting to 17,269 dollars and 77 cents, by the brigSusanna,
an American vessel, regularly documented, and navigated by citizens of the United States, for account and
'risk of Don Carlos Longhy, 'of Genoa, and consigned
to Messrs. Pablo, Greppi, Marliani & Co. at Cadiz.
On. the-l6th of August, 17-98, 288 hogsheads,
amountilg to 43,064 dollars and 54 cents, by the ship
Henrietta, an American vessel, regularl9 documented,
and. iavigated by citizens of the United States, for tho
-account and risk of' Don Carlos Longby, of Genoa,
and consigned to Bernardo Lacosta, at Cadiz.
And on the 8th of November, 1798, 191 hogsheads
by the brig Fly, an Armerican vessel, regularly documented; and navigated by citizens of the United States,
for account and risk of the defendant, a citizen of tho
United States, and consigned to Bernardo Lacosta,
at Cadiz.
The Moorish brig Ziuqueni was captured by the
British, and condemned at Gibraltar, together with her
cargo, as enemy's property.
The Danish brig lffinervd was captured by the
Fren ch,. and, together with heir cargo, condemned as
good prize, by a French consul at Malaga, in Spain.
The ship Henrietta was captured by the British, and,
with her cargo, condemned at Halifax as enemy's pro.
perty.
The other four vessels arrived safe, and their car.
goes were received by the plaintiffs, and applied to
their own use and profit. The bills drawn by the de.
fendant, to he amount of 204,073 dollars and 2 cents

FEBRUARY, 106.
were duly paid, and the .procdeds came 'to the hands
of the defendant, and were applied td the purchases of
the tobacco..
The cost and charges of the tobacco which arrived
safe, exceeded the sum to which it would have
amounted at 10 dollars per quintal, by the sum of 5,478
dollars and 27 cents.,
The defendant produced the letters of Menendez, of
which the following are translated extracts:
"City Washington, 28th May, 1798.
"Mr. James Barry, Baltimore-Esteemed sir, by
your favour of 27th instant, I am informed relative to
the purchases of tobacco, ind the affreightment entered into for its shipment, all of which you have executed with that zeal and efficacy which you are accustomed to, and I therefore approie of the exactitude of
your operations. At same time, I flatter myself
that you will continue successively with equal activity,
until the total compliance of 20,000 quibtals ordred;
and you may rest assured as to my particular errandi
that the paymenis shall be realized in London."
" Washington, 29th May, 1798.
"l Under date of yesterday I wrote you a letter, approving of all your operations relative to the tobacco
purchases, and affreightment for its shiprment. The
contents thereof I now confirm, you having done every
.thing to my entire satisfaction, and as I would have
expected from your exactitiide anc zeal. On the score
of placing the funds ifi London, you may rest satisfied,
because you well know that this is the -principal object
which has compelled me to go to Spain. I hope that
in the next order we shall be able to effect the pur.
chases to more advantage, and with less trouble."

MA~ELA,
1'UJALS & CO.

Ba*.

422
MANELLA,

PVOJLS & Co.
J. BARRY.

m

SUPREME COURT U. S.

" Capes of Virginia, on board the ship Polly
and Nancy, 14th June, 1798.

" Dear Friend,
" The 4th instant we sailed from Alexandria, and
ever since have we been in the river, detained by calms
and contrary winds, which has made me very impa.
tient.
" By the last accounts which I have observed in the
newspapers, I am persuaded that war is as much as
declared between the United States and France. This
novelty troubles me much, for which reason, if it be
agreeable to you, and equally convenient, to have the
future shipments made on Danish or Swedish flags, and
in the name of Charles Longhy, of Genoa, you acting
as his agent; you may do it so by declaring in the bills
of lading and invoices, that the cargoes arv for the account and risk of said Longhy, and by giving letters to
the said captains forMessrs. Greppi, Lacosta, or Gahn,
of Cadiz, of the following tenor :

I Gentlemen, in virtue of orders I have received
from Mr. Charle's Longhy, of Genoa, to remit him a
cargo of tobacco, on his proper account and risk. I
have loaded in the ship -,
captain -,
[so many]
hogsheads of tobacco, and I have given orders to said
captain to. touch at your port, (if not blockaded) and to
call upon you with a view to get permission from your
government to sell a parcel ; should the oaptain succeed
in entering your port, and that you can obtain leave to
dispose of the whole or part of his cargo, you will please
to do so, for the best advantage of the said Mr. Longhy,
remitting hi~m the proceeds to Genoa. And in case
that you cannot obtain a sale, you will please to direct
the captain to proceed on to the said port of Genoa,
supplying him with the means therefor,' &c.
" In this way it will be proper for you to charge your
commission in the invoice. I contemplate, that by making the further shipments in this mode, the property will
go with more security, said 1.onghy being a neutral subject ; and should the vessel be met by French cruisers,

FFBRUARY, 1806.
the cargoes wouid go secure, as the property would not MAnELLA,
appear to be American. I also believe that nothing of PUJALS &dQ
this would affect the insurances; and ht all events it is J. BAnav.
bet, because the insurances will be done on neutral
ships and neutral property, so that the property also
sounds as neutral. Should you, since my departure from
Baltimore, have chartered any American vessel, you can
make the shipment in the same way ; because, in case a
French cruiser should capture the vessel, the car-go may
be saved on account of its not appearing to be American
-property ; so that-the only thing subject to condemnation, in that case, will be the vessel and her freight;
whereas, if the property goes in your name, both vessel
and cargo will be condemned, if under American colours; but, if on a Danish or Swedish vessel, then the
cargo only would be condemned. Therefore, whenever
you can meet a Danish or Swedish vessel, and by making
the shipment as for account of Longhy, the neutral subject, there can be no risk. Therefore, it appears to me
very proper and consistent, in brder to obviate these risks,
in every- case that the further shipments do not sound
in your name, but in that of said Longhy ; or if not, in
that of Messrs. Gahn & Co. of Cadiz, or of Mr. Gould,
your brother-in-law, provided the French and the Portuguese come to a good understanding, which I am informed is the case, and that matters haye been accommodated'between them.
"Finally, you know, better than I do, the critical circumstances of the day, and for this reason I am satisfied
you will be atteintive in making choice of the mode which
may be best calculated to save any shipment you may
make. I can only say that of this vessel, I have much
fear and apprehension, notwithstanding she sailz fast.
c"In case you should act conformably to what I have here
mentioned as to further shipments, I, from this moment,
approve thereof; and that it may appear, and to save you
from any actident that may occur, as also to prove that
such has been with my knowledge and approbation, you
are to keep this letter in your possession, in order tleat
at no time whatever you should be chargeable with the
consequences.

424
MANELLA,
PUJ.TALS & CO.

J.-BARRY.

%,

SUPREME COURT U. S.

"You will encharge the captains to wait the opportunity
of a fresh N.W. wind, in order the sooner to get clear of
the coast;' and the danger of cruisers, th6 same we had
.in view. You will also direct them to make for -the first
port of Spain, be it which it may, as the great object is
to save the cargoes."
This letter was received by the defendant before the
shipnent by the Henrietta was made.
On-the same 14th of June, 1798, 'Menendez wrote a
letter • also to Robert Barry, the nephew, and principal
.clerk and assistax t of the defendant in* his business, of
which the following are translated extracts:
" By what I wrote your uncle under this same date,
you will bd informed of all that I have recommenided.
In addition to which, I qiall mention to you, that you'
will perceive in the copy of the private instructions what
I am directed to do on the score of the tobacco ship.
nlents, and you *ill see in one ariicle thereof, that I am
expressly ordered to make the shipments in neutral vessels, and that the property shall appear as that of the neutral subject. In the present day it may be said, that
war is declared between these states and the French republic; for which reason we may view the thing in a different light.
" When you make up the gen eral invoice, you will re..
collect to charge in thit Which you are to forward to Ber.
nardo Lacosta, two and a half dollars per quintal of tobacco, over and above the real costs and charges, -adding a note to the bottom thereof, that yoi do not charge
insurance, nor loss on the reimbursements, such being to
be done in Europe, and that you do not know to what
amount they may ascend. The general invbice containing the real costs' and charges you will remit to Mr.
Joseph Anthony de Sola, administrator' general of the
king's tobacco stores at Cadiz, or directed in my name
which letter for me will-always come to the hands of said
Sola. You already know that the. other fictitious invoice
is intended to be exhibited at Madrid, but that no other
person shall know any thing of'the other that is to contain
the real cost and'charges, by which only we the concerned

FEBRUARY, 18o6.

are to be governed. The invoice you are to remit to
Bernardo Lacosta, in which the two and a half dollars
per quintal is to be overcharged, is also to be delivered to
Joseph Anthony de Sola, which you will remind him

of.")
,This last letter was' received by Robert Barry, within
ia few days after its date, and before the shipment by the
Henrietta, and was by him delivered to the defendmit.
It was also proived that Menendez, on his first arrival at
Baltimore, declared to the defendant, that he had private
instructions not contained or specified in the said letter of
the 27th of January, 1798 ; and that those private instructions authorised, among other things, a shipment of
the tobacco to be purchased, in neutral vessels generally,
without confining the same to American vessels. That
-Robert Barry saw in the possession of Menendez, soon
after his arrival in Baltimore, a written paper in the Spanish language, purporting, and declared by Menendez to
b a paper containing such private instructions. That
Menendez read apart of them to Robert Barry, who
looked at the paper at the same time, and saw that he
read correctly, and that what he, read was of the purport aforesaid.
That at the time of taking up the Moorish brig and
Danish barque, the defendant found it impossible to procure suitable American vessels. That Menendez knew
of and approved, the shipments in the Mooiish brig and
Danish barque at the time they were made. That the
defendant constantly communicated with Menendez,
during his stay in Baltimore, on the subject of the- said
purchases and shipments, and therein acted with his entire approbaiion and concurrence. That Menendez urged
the necessity of making the shipments of the tobacco
speedily, even if the price should be greater than 10
dollars per quintal calculating, as he said, that if the tobacco should arrive in Spain at 15 dollars, the concern
would dear 100,000 dollars, aid that for his share or
interest therein, which was one tenth, he should clear
10,000 dollars. That the aggregate of all'the purchases
of tobacco, excluding insurance, freight, and commis,Vol. M1.

31

MAI-ZLLA,
PUJALS&Co.
V.
J. BALUY.

426

SUPREME COURT U. S.

sions, did not exceed ten dollars and a half
McANiLLA,
and that Menendez approved the prices at
UJ.LS&Co,
V.
J.

B:&RRY,

per quintal,
whih they

were made.

That Danish and Moorish vessels were neutral vessels,
and that the tobacco was really shipped for the actual account atid risk of the plaintiffs.
Whereupon, says the 'first bill of exceptions, " the
plaintiffs, by oheir counsel, offered to swear a witness to
prove to the jury, that the Said paper, at first read,
in evidence to tie jury by them, as a true translation of
the said letter of the 27th of January, 1798, is not n correct translation of the said letter, in that part of it which is
contained in the following words, "para presentiar la
expedicion," and that the true construction of the haid
words s, "1to be present at, or assist in, the shipments,ll
and not ",to superintend the shipments," as in the said
'paper is stated; to the swearing which witness, for the
purpose aforesaid, the defendant, by his counsel, consented, but the court would not adimit such evid.ence to
be given to the jury on the trial of surh issue, to determine the true import and It gal construction of the said
words." To which opinion the counsel for the plaintiffs
excepted.
The second bill of exceptions began as follows:"And upon the-aforegoing stdtement, prcfixed to the
first bii of exceptions in this .ase, the pliintiffs, by*
their counsel, prayed the directions of the court,, that if
th; jury believed the matters so offered anid givei in.
evid,-nce by the plaihtiffs, then the plaintiffs are entitled'
to recover, on their action, the amount of the price,
costs, and charges of the tobacco, shipped as afortsaid
on board" the Moorish brig Muqueni, the Danish brig
Minerva, and the American ship'Henrietta, and also
the sun of 5.,478 dollars 27 cents, being the excess in
the price, costs, aid charges of the four cargoes shipped
by the defendant, and received by the plaintiffs as aforesaid, over and above the price limited by the letter of
the 27th of Jaduary, 1798. " But the court were of
opinion, and did direct the jury, that by that letter, the
defendant was authorised to make the shipments of
tobacco on board of other than American vessels, or

FEBRUARY, 1806.
vessels belonging ti citizens of the LTnited States,

WAVgLAJ

V.
agreeably to the laws thereof, and that the bhipmiient of PVJ.Ls&CY.
the tobacco in the Moorish and Danish vessels, as J BasT.
stated in this bill of exceptions, (the said vessels being

admitted to be neutral vessels as aforesaid) was not in
violation of the instructions in the said letter, and that
the plaintiffs, have not sustained the present action for
the recovery of damages for such shipmenta on the said
Danish and Moorish vessels, against the said defend.,
ant. And the -court were also of opinion, and did*accordingly -direct the jury, that by the said letter of
instructions, the defendant was authorised to make t&e
shipment of tobacco in .the -ship Henrietta, as above
stated in this bill of exceptions, and to consign the said
'tobacco for the account and risk of the said Don Carlos Longhy, as stated in the said bill of exceptions.And the court were also of opinion, and did direct the
jury, that if the defendant had not such discretion by
the said letter, 'yet if' the jury believe that the said
sevtdral shipments of tobacco, tin board the said Moorish and Danish vessels, and the said American" ship
Henrietta, were made as herein before stated, by the
direction, and with the approbation of the said Menend ez,-or were afterwards ratified by him as agent of
the plaintiffs, as herein before stated, the plaintiffs have
not sustained their present action for the recovery of
damages for such shipments. And the court were of
opinion, and directed the jury, that the evidence was
sufficient "inlaw to establish that the said shipments
were made by the direction of the said Menendezi as
agent'of the .plaintiffs, and were also ratified and con.
*firmed by him as agent as aforesaid. And the court
were also of opinion, and directed the jury, that the.
price of ten dollars and a half for each quintal of
tobacco, limited by the said letter of the 27th of Jan.
.uarV, 1798, for the purchase of tobacco by the defend.
ant, was the price that the defendant might give in
America, exclusive of charges.of every kind, and that
as the price of the said tobacco, shipped by the defendant, did not average so much as ten-and a half dollars
per quintal; the plaintiffs have notsustained tie present
.action to recover damages for the excess of price given
including charges." To which several opinions the
plaintiffs excepted.

.428
MAWCELLA,

&Co.
V.,

AtrIA,,S

1. BAyRa.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The verdict and judgment werefoi" the defendant#
and the plaintiffs broughl their writ of error into this
Court.

Harper, for the plaintiffs in error, observed, that the
duty which he was now called upon to perform, was
more painful than any which had'occurred in the course
of his professional practice. He was called upon to
urge a claim against an honoirable and respectable man,
So the amouqt, perhaps, of his whole fortune. A claim
founded upon no charge of dishonourable conduct or
intentional injury, but upon an excess of authority in
undertaking to judge for the plaintiffs, where the plaintiffs meant to judge for themselves. A.loss has happened, and the question is, upon whom shall it fall ?If the defendant has violated his instructions, though
*jith the purest intention, he has taken the responsibility
upon himself.
The first point made in the court below, was that the
jury, and not the court, was to ascertain the true translation of the Snanish instructions.
The question, what ideas a man meant to convey, is
a question of fact to, be decided by a jury. But what
is their legal effect, is matter of law.
To enable the jury to say what ideas are by the
custovh or usage of a nation, annexed to certain words
or phrases, they must inquire by witnesses.
.Bat this is'a question not material to-the merits of
this "case, and admitting, for the sake .of argument, that
the court was the proper tribunal -o translate the
instructions, two questions tWill arise:
1. Whether the defendant, has deviated from the
strict lettei anid prohibition of'his instructions? and,
2.'Whether, if *he has, he was justified by any
authority contained in the letter of Lacosta, or by th?
orders and assent of Menendez?

FEBRUARY, 180P.

1. He has deviated-hmthp letter of his instructions

MANqZLLA,

in shipping the tobacco, inDanish and Mloorishbvessels, PUJALSECO,
which could not be commanded by American captains, j. v.
;11 take
The words of the instructions are, "you
care to seek captains of fidelity, American born, a.gl
all the crews be strictly agreeable to law," evidently
contemplating none but American vessels, and the
obvious reason was to guard against British captures.
For this purpose, it was believed that the property
would be safer in-American than in foreign ships.,
American produce in foreign vessels, would be considered prima facie by the British, as enemy's goods.
2. In the case of the Henlietta, he violated his in"structions, by not shippipg the tobacco for his own
account and risk, but for that' of Longhy, of Genoa.That the .property should be shipped in his own name,
as a citizen of the United States, is the alpha and
omega of the instructions.
It is true that we were in a state of .limited hostility
with France. But it being, in fact, Spanish property,
and Spain beingthe ally of France, there-was no danger.
of French condemnation. At that time; too, Great
Britain hoped and expected that the Utfited States.
woyld have joined her in the war. There was less
probability, therefore, thdt she would commit depredations upon American property, than upon that of
any other nation. But Genoa was either a province of
France, or a very humble and ,sjbmissive" ally. To
ship the property, therefore, as. that of a Genoese, waq
to place it in the most dangerous situation possible-as
to British cruisers. .his was done; 'no doubt, with
good intentions, butwith a weakness of judgment truly
astonishing, aid in direct violation of-instructions.
2. The 2d question is, was he justified by any part
of the letter in substituting his own judgment for that
of his principals, in opposition to the positive injunctions of his instructions? He was to exercise his judg:
ment only in case' not provided for by those instructions; but where they were precise and positive, he
hid no discretion. The great object of the whole latter

430
:kNParAcA,

SUPREME COURT U. S.

was, that the property should zoot appear to bel6ng to a

Language is uslest" if it is not to be reJ.BA..
garded. No man can be safe in commerce, if his
-\i.'-,-4.d orders are not to be obeyed. 'All confidence will be
destroyed, and commerce must cease. The gentral
expi-essions of the letter cannot be supposed to revoke
all the specific orders, and give unliniited powers.
For what purpose were those specific ordersgiven, if
a general and unlimited authority was conferred? The
general expressions mean no more than this :-We
depend upon your fidelity and judgment. in execrting
our orders. Al the parts of the letter are to be taken
together, so as to give effect to the Whole.

FU

JA Ls &Co. foreigner.

He has not pursued his instructions with respect to
the price. .Expre'ssio unius est excluio alterius. By
naming a price, they must be understood as restricting
the defendant to that limit.
The defendant,,then, is not justified by any thing in
the letter itself. I he justified by the authority of
Menen'dez ?
It is not proved that Menendez was an agent; or
that, if he ivas, he had any power to dispense with the
precise instructions contained in the letter of 27th of
January. His declarations are'not evidence, unless he
is first proved to be an agent, It does not appear what
authority he had. " His private instructions might be
very limited. It is not to be presumed that he hard
authority to vary the particular instructions contained
in the letter. ' If he had, can it be believed that the
defendant did not require him to produce them ? He
knew that he- wa5 about to act cofltrary to his instructions, and that he was taking a great responsibility
upon himself. He ought to have taken a copy. The
burden of proof 'lies on him.
But why not produce the testimony of Menendez ?
The catise has been pending five years in the court
below. [It was answered, that he had gone to Spain;
that a commission had been sent tht re,- but the commissioners refused to act, or the witness kept out of
the way.] Does the letter itself show such an author.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

ity vested in MenendezZ It calls him agent, and re- MAN.YLLA,
&CO.
fers the defendant tohis-verbal communications. But PiJ.LS
J. BASItY.
their
that
see
To
?
purpose
what
for
how agent ?
orders were duly executed; and to make v.erbal communications not inconsistent with the written orders.
If agent, will that convert the letter into a set of
hints instead of instructions ? If he was their geperal
agent, with full powers, why write particular inbtructions to the defendant? "The agent would have kept
the instructions in his pocket. They would have been
written to him, and not to the defendant.
But how was-he agent? 1st. As to the price. 2d.
To superittend the shipments, within the limits of the
instructions. 3d. To select tobacco of the proper
quality to suit the Spanish market. His duty and authority were like those of a supercrg,. He was an
agent, even if he had unly a particular authority. In
order to constitute an agent, it is not necessary that he
should have general powers. If his powers are not to
be considered as restricted, we must- violate that rule
of construction -which, would give effect to the whole
instrument, if possible. "Parapresentiarla expedicion:"
The word expedicion means shipment, not the whole
enterprise. He was to communicate with the defendant
as to the 'whole enterprise, but not to controul it. But
supposing- the expression to mean, that Menendez was
to superintend the enterprise, it can only mean that
he should see that the enterprise was conducted according to the instructions, 'and not that he should
sanction a violation of them. It was to see that they
should be fulfilled, not disobeyed._ But the phrase
parapresentiar,does not mean "to superintend;" it
only means that he should assist. It is translated into
the French language by the word assister; to be present at, to partake of. But if we take ihe English
meaning of the word assist; the qtiestion occurs, how
assist ? Certainly, according to the instructions. The
very next sentence in the letter contradicts the idea of
a general agency. The words are, " and you," in
the singular number) ' will upon the whole act for the
.advantage of the interested." The discretion, if any,
was given to the defendant himself, and not to Menen-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
,M

j;
Ithe

N

LLA',
& Co.
V..LS

dez. He was only to be consulted and advised with.
In any point of view in Which it an be placed, it does

BARY, not justify the idea, that a power was given to controul
orders to give the property an American. character.
The points of
W. Pinchney and Alartin, contrtf
this case are few, and float upon the surface. They
depend upon the construction of the orders, and the
Menendez was not the
authority of Menendez.
casual bearer of the letter of instructions to the defendant, but sent on purpose; his sole business was to superintend this transaction. The defendant agreed to
undertake the business ; he entered upon his duty, and
endeavouredto discharge it with fidelity. I'his action
is, tb.erefore, grpunded on the ungracious idea, 'that
in performing his duty to the best of his judgment, he
has erred. The defendant is not charged with fraud,
or intentional injury. It is, therefore, an action .tricti
juris.
When the nature. of this transac~iori is considered,
the fraud meditated upon the Spanish government by
the double sets of invoices, and.the neutral cover attempted for the property, .the plaintiffs come with an
ill grace into a court of justice to charge a loss upon
the defendant, for a mere error of judgment, while
acting with honour and fidelity, aind exercising his discretion'for their advantage, to the best of his abilit .
If there was any ambiguity in the letter, it was the
fault of the plaintiffs; and, to take advantage of it now,
would be fraudulent. If that ambiguity was intended,
it would be base and dishonourable. The plaintiffs
ought to have explained themselves. The defendant,
at 3,000 miles distance, could not consult them, and
he cannot be chargeable for an error, if any, upon a
point of the instructions in itself ambiguous.
erbafortiusaccipiuntur contra proferentem.
The demand consists of three items :

FEBRUARY,- 1806.

432

1. The excess of price beyond that limited by the in- PMA!Z
ptructiofis.

V.

.L.BAaar.
2. The price of the cargoes shipped in the Moorish
and Danish vessels.
3. 'he cargo of the Henrietta, not shipped in the defendant's own name, but in that of Don Carlos Longhy,
,of Genoa..
1. We had supposed that the question of price hAd
been abandoned.
We contend that the price limited, meant clear of all
charges, subsequent to the purchase in this country.
The limitation was to guide the defendant in his purchases; but he could not say at the time of purchase,
what charges might arise upon it before it would be in his
power to ship it.
We contend; also, that it meant the average of the
whqle, and not of any particular parcel.
2. The demand for the cargoes shipped irt the Moorish
and Danish vessels, rests on the allegation that the defendant was bound by his instructions to employ Americark
vessels only.
The only word in the instructions relative to this point,
has been misinterpreted by the counsel for the plaintiffs.

He has supposed ;hat th6 orders were toftnd 11captains
of fidelity, American bornt"' Bat the letter only directs

him to "1seek" such, ut he was not bound tofind them.
The bill of exceptions shows that he sought ior American vessels, but they could not be found. It is on the
letter, not on the spirit of the instructions, that the plain-

tiffs -willput their case.
The defendant was bound to prevent delay; if he
could not find American captains of the description mentioned, he was not justified in waiting. The only condition was, that the shipment should Pot be nade in less
than six vessels.
VoL ILL

Iit no other part of the letter ar; the
3K

.

424

SUPREME COURT U. S.

vessels designated; yet there is-'another 'part where it
'tYALS &Co. might have been expected. The simulated insurande
V.
J. BAELRY, was to be made in America, the real in Europe. -The
~ conditions of the real insurance are stated ; but it is not
one of them, that the property should be shipped in
American vessels. There was no necessity to discriminate between American and" other neutral vessels. The
policy of Great Britain was to conciliate ,all neutral nations, partidularly the. northern. And having never
given up the principle upon which American, as weoll as
British naval greatness depends, ihe right to take belligerent property out of neutral ships, she would search for
it as strictly in American, as in Danish or Moorish vessels.
MAnLA,

.

But our vessels were not absolutely neutral as to France.
Our flag was suspected of covering enemy-goods by one
party, and was the object of plunder, if not of hostility,
to the other.
There was no reason, therefore, for preferring our vessels. The insurance would be made upon property in
neutral vessels generally.
But it is said, that it would be a suspicious circumstance, that American property should be siipped in any
other than American vessels. This is by no means a
strong argument ; becaude our tonnage is not always sufficient for our commerce.
3. As to the shipment by the Henrietta. Was it justified'either by the instructions or by the authority of
Menendez ?
The great object of the instructions was to cover the
property as neutral. The defendant was bound to iceep
this constantly in view. When, therefore, in August,
1798, America had ceased to be neutral, he was not only not bound to ship the tobacco in his own name, but
would have been liable to an action if he had. The reason of shipping it in his own name had ceased. He was
no longer an unsuspected neutral, but a belligerent. Affairs with France had come to a crisis. Actual hostilities
had commenced, The state of things was materially
changed. What was he to do? He could not consult

-FEBRUARY,

1.806.

435

his- principal.. If in such circumstances be acted with
good faith; and according to his best judgment pursued
,the spirit of his instructions, they who would subject
him to'an action ought to blush. ' "
It would be strange, indeed, if he should not, in such
a case, have some discretion. Every agent must, in the
nature of things, have a disciretion to vary from the precise letter of his instructions, to carry into effect their
general intent.
But he has this discretion in express terms: "You
will, upon the whole, act for the advantage of the interested." "W do not contend for an unlimited discretion.
e admit, that it is limited by the general scope and
spirit of the instructions. If he had given a belligerent
character to the property, then, indeed, he would have
been liable, The injunction to keep the business secret,
was only "to prevent a rise in" the American 1 market."
It applied only'to the transactions in this country. Let
us then see how the defendant conducted himself in this
unforeseen state of things. As he could not consult his
principals, he took the advice of Menendez, their acknowledged agent, who had come for the sole purpose of superintending this expedition, who the plaintiffs said in
their letter would communicate verbally with the deftndant upon that subject, who was the bearer of the particular instructions to the defendant, and who alleged that
he had private instructions from the plaintiffs, and authority to give the orders which he gave.
If the letter'to the defendant was ambiguous, who so
capable of explaining its meaning as Menendez, the confidential agent of the plaintiffs ? Their letter to the defendant, by Menendez, was a letter of credit and confidence. The defendant was bound to place confidence in
the representations of Menendez. If he exceeded his
authority, they, and not the defendant, must suffer.
How could the defendant knowv when he was imposed upon by Menendez? What reason had the defendant ta
doubtthe truth of his verbal communications, when the
plaintiffs themselves had referred him to those verbal
communications? He -had no -cause of suspicion; the
advice of Menendez was reasonable, it was judicious,

MIMLLA;
PUALS& CO.
V.

J. B~aRY:

456
MWrIILA,

C'
PJuALS
V° 8o

J. BARRY.
u

SUPREME COURt U. S.

and consistent with the general scope of the enterprise.
If the law will not protect a man acting honourably under such instructions, and in such circumstgces, the
law is a system of fraud.
Don Carlos Longby, of Genoa, was the person pointed out by the plaintiffs themselves, as the person to whom
the tobacco should be ostensibly consigned in a certain
event. He was, th'refore, a person in whom the plaintiffs could place confidence. lie was a neutral, while
the defendant was not. When Menendez ordered the
shipmentto be made in his name, the defendant had no
cause to suspect that he exceeded his authority. But
if he did exceed his authority, who ought to suffer?
The plaintiffs who placed their confidence in him, or
the defendant who was required by the plaintiffs to give
him credit?
But we are asked; why have we not examined Menenlez as a Witness? We answer; that a commission
has been sent to Spain for-that purpose ; the comnmissioners have refused to act, and have sent back the
commission. Btxtthe question may be retorted upon
the plaintiffs. Why have they not examined Menendez? Nay, why have they not brought their action
against him? If any injury has bein done, he is the
-author of it. He directed, and he approved, all the
acts of the defendant.
But the plaintiffs themselves have nffirmed the very
conduct of the defendant of 'which they complain.The two shipments by the Felicity, and the Susanna,
were made in the same manner as that by the Henrietta, and were received by the plaintiffs. By what rule
can they affirm his conduct when it turns out for their
benefit, and disaffirm the like conduct when a loss has
happened?
P. B. Key, in reply. We admit that words are to
be construed most strongly agalast him who uses them,
and that where ambiguity exists, the construction will
be against him who ought to have t:xplaincd himself.
But the question is, whether any ambiguity existswhether this is not a clear limited agency. The de.

FEBRUARY,- 1806.

437

fendant was limited as to the subject, the price, the M,,ZLLA,
consignment, the name of the shipper,' the vessels, the PUJALb &Co.
captains, and the crew-there was nothing left but a J. BA
.
discretion bounded by these limitations; and the authority of Menendez did not exceed that of the defendant.
They had either a general discretionary power, or
they were limited by the letter of their instructions.If they had a g-.neral discretion, why give special and
precise instructions?
It is plain that no vesselh were contemplated by the
plaintiffs but American vessels. We do not contend
that the strict letter of the instructions directs the
defendant to find captains, American born, but we say
that such is the spirit and meanpixig of the instructions.
That the whole transaction, from beginning to end, was
to bear the appearance and stamp of the American
character. But how unnatural must it appear, to see
an American cargo shipped on board a Moorish vessel.
This circumstance is so singular, as in itself to be a
strong ground of suspicion, especially as our vessels
are seeking for employment in every Fart of the world.
But in the case of the Henrietta, the very letter, as
well as spirit, of the instructions has been violated.The instiuctions are precise and positive, that the defendant-should ship the tobacco for his own account and
risk.
To justify a departure from these positive orders,
it is incumbent on the defendant to show a clear.autho•rity in Menendez to dispense with them. No such
authprity has been proved, and none can be presumed.
The specific instructions contradict such a presumption.
For why give the defendant special orders, if the whole
general agency was in Menendez? Or why were they
sentto the defendant, if he was not to be bound by them ?
The fair presumption is, that the verbal comminica
tions referred to, were to be only a further detail of the
same plan, and not a general dispensation from the
qrders already given.

438
M4ANLLA,

PV

The general expression which is relied on, that the

8AsCo. defendant should " upon the whole, act for the advan.

J. BARY.
\by

SUPREME COURT U. S.

tage of the interested," is in the same breath qualified
the directions to keep it secret, that the business was

on account offoreigners, and by the positive injunction
that it should alwavs appear to be on his own account
as an American citizen. This is in perfect conformity
to the request in the beginning of the lotter, "you will
view this measure as your own," and shows most clearly
their determination to risk their property under an
American cover only. The same limitation also applies
to the reference wlich the plaintiffs make to the verbal
communications of Menendez; it is included in the
same sentence, and is evidently intended to apply, as
well to those vetbal communications, as to the general
power to act for the advantage of th concerned. The
defendant,' therefore, had no right to presume that
Menendez had authority to alter the principal character
of the risk, and to compel the plaintiffs to accept a
,Genoese, instead of an Americafi cover.
The defendant derived no sanction to his conduct
from the plaintiffs receiving the'cargoes of the Felicity
and .the Susanna; that circumstance was- unknown tO
the defendant at the time of the shipment by the Henrietta.
The limitation of price meant to include all the costs
and charges in America. The 'words are, "it will not
answer them at more than ten dollars per quintal in
America." The cost and charges in America, make
part of its price in America.
It is no argument to say, that the defendant could not
regulate his purchases, if the price, including those
charges, was to be limited, because those charg's were
uncertain.
The usual and customary charges were well known
to the defendant, and he was bound to calculate his
purchases accordingly. If,,indeed, any accidental and
unusual charge had been necessariry incurred, this
would have been properly chargt able to the plainiiffs,
but the letter evidently meant that the tobacco should

FEBRUARY, 1806.
not amountto more than ten dollars a quintali including
customary charges.
Upon the whole, then, we contend, that the defendant bas violated not only the letter, but the spirit of
his instructions, and that he was not justified by the
authority of Menende.
February 26.
MARSHALL,

C.

J.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The court has endeavoured to bestow on this cause,
the attention to which it is alike entitled, hy its own importance, by the situatiori of one of the parties, who is
a stranger to our language and our laws, ind by the
ability and zeal with Which it has been argued at
the bar.
The action claims from the defendant, the value of
three cargoes of tobacco, purchased by him as the agent
of the plaiptiffs, which were captured on a voyage to
Europe, and condemned as prize. The foundation of
the claim is, that he deviated from the instructions which
were given for the government of his conduct, and is,
therefore, liable for the loss which has been sustained.
That an agent is bound to pursue the orders of his
principals, and is answerable for any injury consequent
on his departing from them, however fair may have been
his motives for such departure, is a plain principle of law
which has not been drawn into question ; and the only
inquiry in this case is, has the defendant obeyed or devjated from his instructions ?- The circuit court was of
opinion'that they sanctioned his conduct, and it is the
propriety of that opinion which is now to be reviewed in
this court.
It depends on the true construction of the letter of the
27th of January, 1798, written by Bernardo Lacosta,
on behalf of the plaintiffs, of which Juain Alonzo Menendez Conde was the bearer, and, on the testimony'Which
is stated in the bills of exceptions.

BfA-IZLLA,

PVJ^L5 ?'CO.
V.

J. BARUr.

440
MA ELLA,

SUPREME COURT U. S.

This letter introduces Menendez as the agent of the
inaorta-

PUjALS
& CO. plaintiffs,
who were pincipally concerned in the
V.
.1. BARRY.

tion of tobacco into Spain,

and declares a confidence

~ that the defendant will embrace the busineps as his own,
and execute it with his wonted attention.
After some general observations which relate to the
proposed transaction, and which seem to be founded on
the idea that the defendant and Menendez are to be associated in the business, the letter becomes more definite.
The writer says, "with this the said Mr. Ddenendec
takes an order for 20,000 quintais (of tobacco) to be shipped for this place in seven or, eight vessels, and itiL not
less than six, under which condition the insurance will
be made here. You will take care to seek captains of
fidelity, American born, and that all the crews conform
to the most'rigorous ordinances. For greater clearness
the shipments (las expediciones) will be made according
to the following formalities: 1st. You will lade the vessels in your own name, stating that they are on your own
account and risk As an American citizen, and consign
them," &c.
This instruction is followed by ten others, which seem
-principally designed to conceal the real character of the
cargoes, and to facilitate their escape from cruisers.
At the close of these instructionis, the following words
are added : " I refer you to that which the bearer will
communicate to you verbally, respecting this business,
who is sent on purpose to superintend the shipment (va
solo parapresenciarla expedicion) and you will, upon the
whole, act for the advantage of the interested, takitlg care
to keep this business a secret, in order to prevent a rise in
your market, and its being kndwn that it is for foreigners,
but always that it is on your own account as an American citizen."
In the execution of this commission, the defendant
shipped two cargoes, the one on board a Danish and the
other on board a Moorish vessel, each of which was ca tured and condemned as prize, the one by the Frenci,
and the other by the English.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

These shipments were made with the full approbation MAIZLLA,
of Menendez,. and it is in proof that American vessels PU3A.s&Co.
were not, at the time, to be procured.
J. BAYaT.
Before the order was completed, the government of
the United States, adopted such measures, fbr repelling
the hostile aggressions of France, as to justify an
opinion, that open and declared war between the two nations, would soon take place. Under the impression of
these measures, Mr. Menendez considered the American name as no longer affording a neutral character to the
cargo, and directed it to be shipped on account and risk
of Charles Longhy, of Genoa, who was a corrrspondent of the plaintiffs. These instructions were complied
with.
The tobacco so shipped, which came safe. was received
without complaint; but a large quantity, shipped in the
Henrietta, was captured by a British cruiser, carried
into Halifax, and there condemned as prize.
For the price of these three cargoes this action is
brought. The inquiry respecting the two first, will rest,
both on the instructions given to the defendant, and on
the power of Menendez : that respecting the last, rests
solely on the power of Menendez.
It is alleged, that the orders under which the defendant acted, enjoined him to employ only American vezsels and that in'employing those of other neutral powers, he violated tiese orders. But there is certainly not
one syllable in the letter, which contains any instruction
to the defendant, relative to the eniployment of vessels, or
which confines the transportation ofthe tobacco to be purchased, to American vessels. The court thinks it a fair
construction of the letter, that full powers, in this respe~t, were confided to Menendez, andl that Barry vnight
counsel with him, but was to comply with his directions.
Menendez is declarecto be the agent of the plaintiffs, and
the full extent of this term is not limited in any part of
the letter. He brings with him an order for 20,000
quintals, to be shipped in six, se-en, or eight vessels, under which coidition the insurance is to be made in
Spain.
Vol. 11L

3L

SUPREME COURT- U. S.
MANELLA,
These are not instructions to Burry ; they are commu'UJALS &CO. nications to him of the instructions given to Menendez,
so far as 'wvas ntcessarv for his understanding the views
VBARRY.
the pl.intiffs, and facilitating those views, under the authority of Mlenendt-z. The order, of which Menendez
was tie bearer, was for himself, and the degree of aid
expected from Barry, is dtscribed in the letter. Barry
might have been unable, or unwilling to undertake the
business. In any event of that kind, the enterp~rise was
not, certainly, at an end ; but Menendez might obtain
other assistance. From the nature of the case, therefore, as well as from tht expressioiu of the letter, the order was in the possession and power of Menendez, the
ag:.nt, to whom directions relative to the'shipment of the
tobacco, in a certain number of. vessels, had been given,
and who is declared to have been sent to America, for
the purpose of superintending those shipments. Having
made this explanation of the business confided to Menend, z, the letter adoIs, "you will take care to seek
captains of fidelity, American born," &c. '1hose inquiries, Barry, an American merchant, could make, much.
more successlully, than Menendez, a foreigner, and,
therefore, was di'rected to make them. But respecting
the character of the vessel to be employed, no agency, on
the part of Barry, was necessary, further than to comply with such directions as he might receive, and no directions respecting the vessels to be employed, were given
him, because those directions were given to Menendez.
The instrutions to Barry, to seek for American captains,
are founded not upon instructions to employ American
vess-ls, which were given to-him, for none such were
giver, but upon the instructions which were givtn to Menendez. They are founded on the idea, that American
vessels *vouldbe employed ; but as circumstances might
render the employment of them ineligible, it was reasonable to suptose that some discretion would be allowed to
Menendez in this respect ; accordingly, the private instructions, as stated in the bill .of exceptions, only
directed him to employ neutral vessels.
Sof

The idea that the power on this subject was com pletely
in- Menendez, and not. in Barry, is confirmed, by'observing that in the extended and'minute rules, which are,
for greater clearness, laid down for his government respecting the transportation of the tobacco, not one s)lla-

]qLBRUARY, 1806.

ble is said concerning the characterof the vessels in whi, h
it was Lo be shipped, a directiont which would certainl
not have been omitted, had the subject not been confided
to the general agent. L is also apparent, from the letters in the bill of exceptions, that the subject was so understood by both Menend- zand Barry. When to these
circumstances it is added, -that American vessels were
sought for at the time, and could not be obtained, it seems
to the court pertectly clear, that with respect to the
tobacco shipped in the Moorish and Danish vessels, the
conduct of the defendant being sanctioned by Menendez,
was. free from all exception.
The claim for the cargo of the Henrietta, stands oa
stronger ground, because the defendant was explicitly
instruated to lade the vessels in his own name, stating
that the cargoes were shipped on his own account and
risk. On this part of the case, the defendant must seek
for a justifi:a-ion in the full powers of Menendez, to vary the orders given to him. These orders have been
said to be free from all obscurity, and in themsehes they
unquestionably are so. Barry could not have doubted
the positiveness of his instructions, to ship the tobacco
ag his own property. The defence he sets up is, that
he was justified in -conforming *to the directions of Menendez, varying those instructions.
An examination of this defence, leads to a still more
critical investigation of the letter of the 27th of January.
It has been already observed, that Menendez is stated
in the letter, ihtroducing him o Barry, to be the agent of
the plaintiffs, and the bearer bf their orders for the tobacco, which was to be purchased. As it was not unreasonable to expect that a person, crossing the Atlantic in
this character, would have some discretionary power to
change instructions with a change in circumstances, so as
to be enabled to adapt his conduct to those circumstances,"
ready faith would be givento all expressions which
wouid convey this idea; and if no such power was intended, no expressions ought to have been used, which
could excite and cherish the idea.
- The rules stated to Mr. Barry, as those by which his
conduct would be governed, are declared to relate to the

MANIULL.,
&Co,

PvJALs

.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MAN.FLA,
PUJALS & Co.

J. BaY.

.

"

part he was expected to take in the " expedieion" which
the court translate transportation, or conveyance of the
tobacco to Europe. One of these being, that the tobacco was to be shipped in his own name, it follows that this
part of the subject was included in the Spanish term
" expedition." All these rules conclude with a reference
to verbal communications, to be made by the agent himself, who is expressly declared to go to the United States
for the sole purpose of attending co chis very part of the
transaction, " va solo para preseneiar la expedicion."
This reference to the verbal communications of Men..ndez, unqualified by any restriction whatever, is a declaration of complete confidcnce, placed at least in his veracity, by the plaintiffs, and is a full authority given by them
to Barry, to credit the representations which he should
make. How else is it to be understood ? What right could
Barry have to say to those who had referred him to the
verba communications which thtir agent should make to
him on a parti.'ular subject, that he did notbelieve those
communications?
It is argued, that although no limitation is expressed
to the credit which Barry was -to give to the representationg of Menendez, yet it must be necessarily understood, that he cotild not change those things which were
expressly directed ; that the verbal communications referred to, were to be conformable to, not subversive of,
the written instructions ; that on the idea of a power to
alter the written instructions, it was useless to give them,
and was only necessary to send out Menendez with a full
authority to govern the whole transaction.
But in the course of human affairs, it is not unusual
for a principal to give, in detail, his ideas of the line of
conduct to be observed by his agent, and yet to allow a
departure from that line of conduct, under particular circumstances.
It would not have been extraordinary, had these rules,
for the conduct of Barry, been followed by a declaration,
that in a total change of circumstances, as in the event
of America's becoming -a belligerent, he was to ship the
tobacco, not as Americafi, but as neutral property. Had
Barry been the sole agent, this right to exercise his discretion, if intended to be placed in him, would have

FEBRUARY, 1806.

been mentioned in his letter.

445

But Barry was neither the

agent. He was known to the plainsole nor the principal
•
tiffs only by recommendation, and while he was employ-

ed, because an American merchant could make the propo.-:d purchases to greater advantage, and because an

American name was required to cover the property,.
Menendez was the confidential agent, known to and trusted by the: plaintiffs, who brought with him the order for
the purchases, and came on purpose to atfend to the conveyance of the tobacco to Europe.

In the instructions

to Menendez, therefore, would any discretion relative to
the transportation of the tobacco be found, and it was
enough that Barry was referred to his verbal communications.
The words which follow the reference to the verbal
communications of Menendez, though not those which

decide the opinion of the court, are not absolutely unimportant: they are, " and you will, ipon the whole, act
for the advantage of the parties interested." To what
do these words, "upon the whole," refer? Unquetionably to the verbal communications as well as to the
written instructions. They were both to regulate the
conduct of the defendant. The caution which follows
these words, is understood by the counsel for the plaintiffs, to limit their extent, and to direct, that in acting
for the advantage of the interested, he was yet to keep
secret, that the tobacco belonged lo foreigners.
There is, unquestionably, great forcein this observation:k
and if the justification of Barry rested solely on the power given him in this clause, to act for the best, it would
be doubtful how far it would avail him. The court, however, considers those words principally applying to the
purchases, and as indicative of an expectation that a state
of things would remain, in which the tobacco was to retain the character of American property, rather than as
limiting the powers of Menendez over this part of the
subject, in the event of such a revolution as would make
America a belligerent. The court forbears to make a critical examination of the words, because its opinion is
formed on the character in which Men endez came, to
America, as stattd in the letter introducing him to Ba
ry. That letter warranted the belief that he was the prin;

MANC1LLA,

& Co.
PUJALS
V.

J. Bng:.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MANELLA,

PUJALS&CO.
V.

cipal and confidential agent of the plaintiffs; that ho had
particular instructions for the government of his (onduct,
and that Barry was to receive and trust his verbal com-,
munications, especially on the subject of expediting the
tobacco to Spain. It is impossible to read the letters
from Menendez to Barry, which form a part of the bill
of exceptioils, without feeling a-conviction that this was
the understanding of the parties. He approves the Londuct of the defendant, in the stile of a man whose approbation gave a sanction to it, and when he directs the
shipments to be made in the name- of Charles Longhy,
of Genoa, he says, "if you act conformably to what I
have here mentioned, as to further, shipments, I, trom
this moment, approve thereof, and that it may appear,
and to save you from any accident that may occur, as
also, that suchhas been with my knowledge and approbationt you are to keep this letter in your possession, in order, that at no time whatever, you should be chargeable
with the consequences." Such was the opinion %vh. h
the confi-lential agent of the plaintiffs, in possession of
their private instructions, entertained of his own powers.
He was not mistaken in their extent; at least, the dtfcndant had no right to believe him mistakcn. On his arrival, he declared to Barry, that he was in possession of
private instructions, distinct from those which w, re contained in the letter of the 27th of January. 1He produced
those instructions. The chief clerk of Barry reasl so
much of them as related to vessels, and they lid not require that the shipments should be made in American,
but in neutral vessels ; and in the letter of Menend z to
the chief clerk, dated on the 14th June, and ,accompanying that of the same date, addressed to the defendant,
directing him to ship the tobacco as the property of
Charles Longhy, of Genoa, he says, referring to a copy
of his private instructions, " you will see that I am expressly ordered to make the slipments in neutral vessels,
and that the property shall appear as that of a neutral
subject." What right had he to suspect that the confidential agent of' the plaintiffs, to whose verlal communi-.
cations they referred him, had forged instructions which
he produced as those of his principals ?
The counsel for the plaintiffs, question the existence
of these private instructions, and demand their produc-

FEBRUARY, 180&

447

tion. But how were they to be authenticated? Onty by
fMenendez himself. Are not then their contents to be
proved by the declarations of Menendez, by his stating

MANZLLA,

P'VJALS& Co.

a part k
them, and by the chief clerk of Barry, who read
of them?
To the court, it appears, that in such a case as this,
the proof respecting them is as ample and satisiactory as
ought to be required.
After taking this extensive view of the case, of the
powers of Menend,-z, and of the confidence the defendant was bound to repose in him, it only remains briefly
to observe, that the directions he gave were not such as
to awaken suspicion.
On.the 14th June, 1790, when these instructions were
given, America had ceased to be a neutral power. War,
'it is true, was not formally declared, but it had commenced
in fact, and hostilities were aurhorised by that department
of the government which is invested with the power of
.making war. In such a state of things, the course which
prudence would have dictated to the plaintiffs, had they
been themselves in the United States, certain!y was to
cover the tobacco as neutral, not as American property,
and when their agent, possessing private instructions,
directed the propt rty to be shipped as neutral, not as
American, the defendant would have been culpable in
thwarting him.
It is scarcely necessaryf to add, that Menendez stateu
himself to be, and probably was, something more than an
agent. He declared himself to be interested in the cargoes.
This declaration, under all the circumstances of the case,
was not to be discredited. Upon that, however, the
judgment of the court is not founded. The letter of the
27th January, represented him as the principal and confiden'tial agent of the plaintiffs, whose verbal communications were to be trusted. He declared himself to possess
particular instructions respecting a transaction which he
came to superintend, and under those instructions he
gave orders which the defendant has obeyed. The court is
of opinion, that in so doing, the defendant is justifiable,
and no error has been committed in the court below, in
so instructing the jury.

v.

448
MANiLLA,

-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Upon the other part of the exceptions, the price given

PUJALSV.& Co. for the tobacco, it is unnecessary to say more, that

J. BARR-r.

that

there is no error in the opinion of the court.
Affirmed.

EX PARTE BURFORD
Ex PARTE
BURFOR D.

A warrant of

JOHN ATKINS BURFORD, a prisoner confined

commitment

in the jail of the county of Alexandria, in the district of

oath.
,y

the United States, and praying for a certiorarito the

by justices of
Columbia, petitioned this court for a habeas corpus, to
the peace,
must state a, inquire into the cause of his commitment, alleging
cer- that he was confined under and by colour of process of
g.od cause
rain,
supplorted

clerk of the circuit court of the district of Columbia,
for the county of Washington, to certify the record by
which his cause of commitment might be examined,
and its legality investigated. To thew petition Vim annexed a copy of his commitment, certified by the jailor
of Alexandria county.
Hiort, for the petitioner, observed, that he was
aware of the decision of this court in the case of Marbury v. Aadison, ante, vol. 1, that a mandamus would
not lie in this co-.rt wheti it operated as an oriqinal
process ;"but there is a vast difference between a mandamus and a writ of habeas corpus. The former is a
high prerogative writ,. issuing at the discretion of the
court, but this is a writ of right, and cannot be refused.
The constitution of the United States, art. 1, § 9, de.
clars, "that it shall not be suspended, unless when -in
cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may
require it."
By the 14th section of the judiciary act of 1789, vol.
1, p. 58, it is enacted, " that all the before mentioned
courts of the United States," (including the supreme
court) " shall have power to issue writs of scirefatas,

