FEBRUARY, 1806.

311

from a competent authority, it is his duty to obey. But
though the discharge may excuse the sheriff, as an officer
of the court, it will not excuse the party, nor his surety.

As to them, it is inoperative, and of no legal efficacy.

STUNs

AND

WVsS
VF.

SLACUN.

-...-.

HARRIS v. JOHNSTON.
V-.

Jo i uNSTO X.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, in an action of assmp-

An action
aobe
maintained,

sit, for goods sold and delivered, and money had and on an original
received,

contract for
sold
goods
and deliver.

by a per.
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and upon ed,
son
ev
has
the trial took two bills of exceptions,
received a
note as condiThe first stated, that this action was commenced on tionaf
pay.
the 10th of July, 1801, and that on the trial the plain- ment, and has
tiff offered evidence of the sale and delivery of goods, passed away
note.
that
of parto the amount of 2,149 dollars and 33 cents.
A bill
cels delivered

That the defendant offered in evidence a bill of par- byl, stating
ag
goods
and in the hand- the
eels of the same goods, rendered by
ofnot
D)
and ,is
writing of the plaintiff, Johnston, amounting to 644. bought
16s. Virginia currency, containing a particular accoupt conclusive
of rum and sugar, beginning with these words : "113r.eridence aalst,
Pr') & 7ohnston," at the
goods that
Theophius Harris, bought of Dunlap
the foot of which bill was the following receipt, signed were thejoint
by the plaintiff: "Received, Messrs. Clingman and property of 2
butthe
Magaw's note for the above sum, payable to the order adr.
real circummay
stances
Towers
John
by
of Yohn Towers, or order, indorsed
and Theophilus Harris, payable the 2d April, 1798, be explained
when paid, received in full ;" which bill was rendered by parol.

If partofthi

to the defendant by the plaintiff, at the time of the sale goods were
and delivery,

the sole pro.

perty of 1),

roe
due the resi.
The defendant further offered evidence to prove, mid'the

that the note in that receipt mentioned, was delivered property ofr,
to the defendant with the blank indorsement of Tow- and if I had
ers, and by the defendant indorsed in blank to the plain-

uthorityfrom

D, to sellae
tiff, at the time of the sale and delivery of the goods, part,
_rmay

SUPREME COURT U. S.
and by the plaintiff afterwards indorsed to one John
Dunlap, who, on the 19th of April, 1798, broughtsuit
thereon against the present defendant, Harris, in the
maintain an court of Hustings, in the town of Alexandria, upon his
action for the indorsement, striking out the name of the plaintT,
whoe, in his Yohnston, and filling up the defendant, -arrs's,inown name.
An indorsee dorsement with a direct assignment from Barris to
of a promisso- Dunlap. That upon that suit judgmcnt'was rendered,
ry note, paya- -by the court of Hustings, for Dunlap against Harris,
ble to order,
from which judgment he appealed to the Dumfries
cannot, in
district court, where the judgment of the court of
Virginia,
maintain an Hustings was reversed,* and Dunlap appealed from
action at law,
the judgment of the district court, to the court of apupon the note,
against a r. peals, where the judgment of the district court was
,note indoraffirmed.
HARnXt
V.

JOHNtSTO N.

sor, but he
may in equity.

The defendant, on the trial of the present suit, ulso
offered evidence to prove, that the said John Dunlap,
on the 19th of April, 1798, also commenced suit
against Towers, upon his indorsement of the same
note, which suit is still pending in the court below.
That the said John Dunlap is the same Dunlap whose
name is mentioned at the head of the bill of parcels
aforesaid, ad who is still living.
Whereupon, the defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury, that upon proof of these circumstances,
the plaintiff could not recover, in this action, for goods
sold and delivered; and that, from the bill and receipt
given as aforesaid, the transaction must be cohsidered
as a joint contract. Which instructio-A the court refused to give, as prayed, but directed the jury, that
the bill of parcels, before mentioned, is evidence (but
not conclusive) 6f a joint contract of sale for the rum
and sugar ; and that the plaintiff may explain the transaction by parol, or other evidence, to prove that he
It was understood and admitted by the counsel on both sides,
that the judgment was reversed because the court was of opinion,
that, in Virginia, the holder of an indorsed promissory note, payable
to order, cannot strike out anintermediate blank indorsement, and
fill up the blank indorsement of a remote indorsor, with an order
to pay the money to himself; and that the holder cannot maintain
an action against any of the parties to the note, but his own immeidiate indorsor, or the maker of the note.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

313

was the sole owner of the sugar, and that the said Dunlap was the sole owner of the rum, and that the contract
for the sale of the sugar -was made with the plaintiff in
his own right, and that the contract for the sale of the
rum was made with him as agent for Dunlap. But if
the plaintiff should produce no such explanatory evidence, he could not maintain the present action.
And the court further instructed the jury, that if
they should be satisfied, that the contract of sale was
made with the plaintiff alone, and that part of the goods
was the sole proper4.of the plaintiff, and that the residue was the sole property of Dunlap ; and that the
plaintiff had authority from Dunlap to sell such residue;
then the plaintiff had a right to recover judgment in
this action against the defendant, for the whole amount
of the goods so sold and delivered; and that the other
facts stated are not sufficient to bar the plaintiF.
The 2d bill of exceptions in the present cause, stated,
that the,61aintiff produced a witness, who proved, that
the sale-of the goods was made in the store of Dunlap,
where the goods were deposited; thht he never knew
Dunlap to claim any title to the sugar, nor the plaintiff
to the rum; and that, previous to the sale, Dunlap
claimed* the 'rum as his separate property, and the
plaintiff claimeA the sugar as his separate property ;
and that Dunlap requested the plaintiff to sell the rum
with the plaintiff's sugar. Whereupon, the plaintiff
prayed the court to instruct the jury, that the evidence
so offered was not competent to contradict or explain
the purport of thebill of parcels and receipt, or to shovr
that the plaintiff sold piart of the goods as his separate
property, and the residue as agent of Dunlap; and
that it did not amount to proof of such several property
and agency, as could enable the plaintiff to recover, in
this action, for the whole of the goods sold.
Which instruction the court refused to give; but
instructed.the jury, that the declarations of Dunlap, or
of the plaintiff, or the request of eithr of them, cannot
be given in evidence, unless the defendant was preift,
when such declaration or request was made.
Ss
Vo IM

HAnis

V.

314
MAIs

V.

JoE2. ST ON.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

A verdict'being rendered for the plaintiff, the de-

fendant moved the dourt for a new trial, which waa

and the court ordered the clerk to deliver up to
the defendant, the note of Clinginan & Magaw, indorsed

Srefused,

by Towers, which was, referred to. *in the receipt, and

which was fled in the suit of Dunlap v. the present
defendant.*
Upon this case two questions arose.
1st. Whether the bill of parcels was conclusive cvi.
dence of ajoint contract of sale, .and of the joint property of Dunlap and Johnston ?
2a, Whether, under the other circumstances of the
case, the plaintiff could recover in this action ?
C. Lee, and Yones, for plaintiff in error.
1. The bill of parcels is written evidence, purporting
Ajoint contract, and cannot be oontradicted by parol.
The actioi ought to have been joint. The bill of
exceptions does not state any evidence from which the
jury could infer, that part of the goods was the sole
property of one, and the residue the sole property of
the other. The circumstances offered toprove that
fact were too slight to justify the inference, and the
court ought to have instructed the jury to that effect.

2. The contract which arose on.the sale of ihe
goods.has been changed to a special contract, to pay on
a certain condition : viz. if the' plaintiff shall use due
diligence to get the money on the note, and shall not
succeed, If the plaintiff negotiates the note, he re'The record does not state the whole order of the court u on the
motion for a new trial rhe cout, upon further argument and con.
sideratiob, being doubtful whethdr the plaintiff could support this
action,' until he had got back, the note from Dunlap, informed the
plaintiff's counsel, that they 'would grant a new trial, Unless tho
plaintiff would get that note, and return it to the defendant, and
also obtain a release from Dunlap to Harris, of all right of action
for the rum sold,

FEBRUARY, 1806.

315

HAax
ceives its value; he is paid for-the goods sold; he has
V.
received satisfaction, and can never resort to the de- Jou2:sTo0r.
fendant, until the note is returned to the plaintiff, and
he has taken it up, and offered to return it to the de.
fendant. Whatever would prevent the plaintiff from
recovering against the defendant on the note, would
equally prevent hin from recovering on the contract
for gobds sold and delivered. The present suit was
commenced while suits were depending on this very
note, by Dunlap against the present defendant, and by
DUnlap against Towers. The defendant cannot, ht
the same time,' be answerable upon the note, and upon
the original -contract.of sale.

The order which the court made, that the plaintiff
should deliver up to the defendant, the note which had
been fied in the case of Dunlap v.Harrii, did not aid
the judgment. The court had no authority to make
such an order; the note was the property of Dunlap,
and not of the plaintiff. But the note was of no use to
the defendant. It vas barred by the act of limitations,
and that by the conduct of the plaintiff.
In the case of Kearslake v. Aforgan, 5 T. R. 513, it
isadniftted by.the counsel on both sides, that if a riegotiable note, given for a prior simple contract debt,
be indorsed over by the plaintiff,, and is outstanding,
the plaintiff cannot recover upon thu original contract.
In the present case, it must be presumed that the plairitiff received value for the note when he passed it to
Dunlap, and it does not appear that he has ever been
obliged to refund.
Swann, -E.7. Lee, and Simms, contra. It does not
appear that the note was not returned. But this court,
in the case of Clarke & ronng, ante, "vol.1... 181, had
decided, that it is not necessary, in such a case, to return it. So in the case of Packford v. ZfNaxwell, 6 T.
R. 53, the court said, that " in' cases of this kind, if
the bill, which is given in payment, do not turn out to
be productive, it is not that which it purports to be,
and which the party receiving it expects it to be, and,
therefore, he may consider it asa nullity, and act as if
no such bill had been given at all." The same point is

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HARRIS
V.

Jpa~s'r.

also decided in 1. EsP. Rep. 5, and 7 T. R. 64, Owen.
son v. Jlfrse.
The question of negligence does not arise in this
case. The reason of the admission in the case of
Kearslakev. Morgan, that if the note was outstanding,
the plaintiff. could not recover upon the original cause
of action, is, that the defendant would be liable to be
sued upon it. The words are, " if he may be suedupon
it by a thirdperson." But here the record itself shows
that Harris could not be sued upon it by a third person, being only liable to the present plaintiff, who was
his immediate indorsee, that point having been decided
in the court of appeals in Virginia, upon this very note.
As, therefore, Harris is liable upon the note to the
present plaintiff only, and, as he will not be liable to
him on the note, in case he recovers in the present ac.
tion, it is the same thing as if the note had been taken
up by the plaintiff, and ready to be delivered to the
defendant.
Yones, in reply, admitted, that modern decisions
have laid down the law broadly, that if the note or bill
is not honoured, it is of no avail; but it is otherwise, if
the note or bill be negotiated; it is then a payment
until returned.
'In the case of Toung & Clarke, t.,e plaintiff had not
negotiated the bill, and the parties answerable to Clarke
were insolvent.
The liability of the defendant to a uit by a third
person, on the note, is not the only ground of the opinion in Kearslahe v. Morgan. Anotter ground is,
that the defendant may have the benefit of the note
against the parties answerable to him.
But, if the present defendant is not liable to be sued
on the note in the name of a third person, yet Dunlap
may sue him upon it, in, the name of Johnston.*
.Marshall,
M
Ch. J. Not if Johnston recovers in the present stilt.

Yones. But if Dunlap has a right to the note, he may sue in cqui.
ty, and payment by Harris to Johnston would not be a bar.

Marshall, Ch. J. True. We shall consider that point. Ijiave

FEBRUARY, 1806.

317

February 19.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the
Court,

This case comes up on two exceptions taken to opinions given in the circuit court.
The plaintiff in the court below had sold to the defendant in that court, certain goods, wares and merchandize, of which he had given him a bill, headed
with.the words, "Mr. Theophilus Harris, bought of
Dunlap & Johnston," &c. At the foot of this bill of parcels, was the following receipt: " Received, Messrs.
Clingman and Magaw's note for the above sum, payable to the order of John Towers or order, indorsed by
John Towers and Theophilus Harris, payable 2dApril,
1798, when paid, received in full."
This -aote was indorsed in blank by the defendant in
error, and a suit was instituted upon it by Dunlap
against Harris, in which suit he ultimately failed, it
being the law of Virginia, that on a note, an action by
the indorsee can only be maintained against the drawer,
or his immediate indorsor.
The defendant below objected,
1st. That the bill of parcels was conclusive evidence
of joint property in the goods sold and delivered, and,
therefore, that the action was not maintainable in the
name of Johnston alone.
2d. That no action was maintainable on the original
contract, the plaintiff below having indorsed the note
mentioned in the receipt, and not having re-acquired
any property in it, so as to be able to restore it to
Harris.
No laches are imputed, or are imputable to the holder of the note.
always been of opinion, that in such cases a suit in chancery can be

supported; though I do not recollect any case, in which the point
has been decided.

HA211s
V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
HARAIS
;Both these points w~re decided against the defendant
V.
below, and a judgment was rendered agiinst him, from
JoH-roN.
Swhich

he has appealed to this court.

On the first point the court is of opinion, that there
is no error. The' written memorandum was not the
contract, and .was only given to show to what object
the receipt at its foot applied. . It is not, therefore, a
bar to a didclosure of the real fact ; it is not conclusive
evidence of joint ownership in the property sold, and
of a joint sale, but will admit of explanation.. The
court, therefore, did not err in allowing explanatory
evidence to go to the jury, nor in all6wing the jury to
judge of the weight of that evidence.
On the 2d exception, the material .point to be
decided is, whether an action can be maintained. c n
an original contract for goods sold, and delivered, by a
person who has received a note as a conditional pay-ment, and has passed away that note.
Upon principle, it would appear that such an action
could not be maintained. The indorsen6nt of the
note passes the property in it to another, and is evidence
that it was sold for a valuable consideration.
If, after such indorsement, the seller of the goods
could maintain an action on the original contract, he
would receive dpuble satisfaction.
The case cited from 5th Term Reports, appears to
be-precisely in point. The distinction taken by the
counsel 'for the appellee, that in this case Harris can
never be sued on the note, is not so substantial as it is
'Wgenious. Harris has a right to the note, in order to
have his recourse against. his indorsee, and Johnston
has not a right to obtain satisfaction for the goods from
Harris, while he is in possession of the satisfaction
received from Dunlap. In the case quoted from Durnford & East, the liability of the defendant to an action
from the actual holder. of the note, is not the sole
ground on which a disability to sue on the original
contract was placed. That disability was also occa-

FEBRUARY, 1806.

219

sioned by the obvious injustice, of allowing to thesame
person a double satisfaction, and of withholding from
the debtor, who bad paid for the note before lie could
indorse it, and who would be compelled, by the judgment, to pay for the goods, on account of which he
had parted with it, the right of resofting to his indorsor. - But, if it was indispensable to ihow, that-Dunlap has, a remedy against Harris, it is supposed, that
the holder of a note may incontestibly sue a remote indorsor in chancery, and compelpayment of it.

H,%sIs

V,,.

The- case of Young & Clarke, decided in this court,
does not apply, because, in that case, the plaintiff below
had not parted with his property in the note.
The court does not think that the order (made after
the judgment was rendered) for the rendition of the
,note to the defendant below, can correct the error
committed in misdirecting thdjury.
The judgment is to be reversed, for error in directing
the jury that the action was &inintainableon the original contract, after the note receivesL as conditional
payment had been indorsed.

DIXON'S EXECUTORS v. RAMSAY'S
'EXECUTORS.

])xo.

Os

EXECUTORS
V.

EXECUTORS.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co- An qxecutor
mai.
lumbi, upon a judgment in favour of the defendants; cannot%
tain a suit -in
upon a general demurrer to their plea, which (after oyer t district of
of the plaintiff's letters testamentary) stated, that the Columbia,
upon lettrs
defendants' testator, at the time of making the promises, testamentary
&c. and from thence, .always, until his death, re- granted in a
sided in the town of Alexandria, in the county of foreign counAlexandria, in the district of Columbia, and that the trYi
defendants have always resided in the same town, and the testator's
that the plaintiffs have not obtained probat of the said personal pro-

