SUPREME COURT U. S.
DIXON'S
ZXECUTORS
V.

RAMSAY'S

IXZOUTqORS.

suit by virtue of his-letters testamentary, be can only
sue in courts to which the power of those letters extends. It is not, and cannot be denied, that he sues by
virtue of his letters testamentary; and consequently, in
this particular, he comes within the principle which
was decided by the court, in the case of an administrator.
All rights to personal property ate admitted to be regulated by the laws of the country in which the testatot lived; but the suits for those rights must be governed by the laws of that country in which the tribunal is
placed. No man can sue in the courts of any country,
whatever his rights may be, unless in conformity with
the rules prescribed by the laws of that country.
The court can perceive the inconvenience which may
often result from this principle, but it is an inconvenience for which no remedy is within the reach of this
tribunal.
Judgment affirmed.

Scorr
V€.

SCOTT v. NEGRO LONDON.

NGrxo LoxDON.

If the owner

of a slave removing into
Virginia, shall
take the oath
required by
the actor
assembly,
irnsixty withdays

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Colum.
ba, sitting at Alexandria.
Negro London .brought an action of assault and battery against Scott, to try his right to freedom. His claint
was grounded upon the act of assembly of Virginia, of
the 17th December, 1792, P. P. 186 ; the 2dsection of

after the re- which is in these words: "Slaves which shall hereafter
moval of the be brought into this commonwealth, and kept therein one
owner, it
whole year together, or so long at different times as shall
shall prevent

the slave from amount to one year, shall be free."
gaining his
feedom, althoughghe
was brought

The 3d section imposes a penalty upon every person
importing slaves contrary to the act.

FEBRUARY,

1806.

The 4th section is in these words: "Provided,

32S

that

nothing in this act contained, shall be construed to extend

to those who may incline to remove from any of the United States, and become citizens of this, if, within sixty
days after such removal, he or she shall take the following
oath, before some justice of the peace of this commnonwealth "I, A. B. do swear, that my removal into the
state of Virginia was with no intent of evading the Laws
for pr.venting the further importation of slaves, nor have
.1 broug-ht with me ahy slav s with an intention of selling
them, nor have any of the slaves which I have brought
with me, been imported from Africa, or any of the WestIndia islands, since the first day of November, one thousand seven hundred and seventy-eight. So help me God."

SCoT

V.
Nz DoLou.
into Virginia
by a person
C ming and
exercisingthe
right of ownership over
him eleven
monaths before
of the true
owner ; and
although the
person who
brought him

"Nor to any person claiming slaves by descent, mar- in never took:
riage or devise; nor to any citizens of this commonwealth the oath; and
them
being now the actual owners of slaves within any of the althogh
laeremain-

United States, and removing. such hither ; nor to travel- ed in Virginia
lers or others making a transient stay, and bringing slaves more than
for necessary attendance, and carrying them out again." twelve

months; and
although the
The defendant below took a bill of exceptions, which true =,3r

stated, in. substance, the following facts:
The defendant's father, claiming to owun the plaintjfas
his slave, brought him from Maryland into Alexandria,
in July, 1802, without the knowledge or consent of the
clefendant and hired him out in Alexandria until hi5
aeath, which happened about Christmas in the same
year. The plaintiff has continued to reside in Alexandria until the present time, except about three weeks in
April, 1803. The defendant's father never took the oath
.required by the 4th section of the act. The defendant,
in March, 1803, got possession of the plaintiff, and in
April following, being then a resident of Maryland, but
intertding to remove to Alexandria, hired him out in
Alexandria, claiming him as his slave, under a bill of sale
from Thomas Contee, dated the 3d of September, 1800.
The defendant came from Maryland in June, 1803, and
or the 5th of July next following, took the oath prescribed by the 4th section of the act. Whereupon, the court
instructed thejury, that if they should be of opinion, from
the evidence, that the defendant's father brought the

never brought
him in.

326
SCOTT
NEVLON.

~
.y

a

SUPREME COURT U. S.

plaintiff from,the state of Maryland into the county of
Alexandria in the ydar 1802,'and exercised acts of ownership-overtheplaint v, and hired him out as his slave,
and that the plaintiff has been kept in the county of Alexandria one whole year, or so long at different times, as
amount to a whole year, from the importation to ihe bringing of the action, and that no other oath was made than
that which the defendant has offdred in evidence as aforesaid, then the plaintiff is entitled to his freedom, although
thejury shouldbe satisfied that he was the property of the
defendant at the time he was so brought into the town of
Alexandria.
E. _. Lee, for the plaintiff in error. At the tinie the
plaintiff in error took the oath, the negro had not been
kept a year in the county of 'Alexandria ; the forfeiture
had not accrued ; the oath was taken within sixty days
after the removal of his owner. •The importation by the
father, without the knowledge or consent of his son, the
owner, did not oblige the latter to take the oath'within
sixty days after such importation. The act is penal, and
is, therefore, to be construed strictly. No prosecution
against the son, for the penalty under the third section of
the act, could have been maintained, upon such an importation by the father. The oath by the son would have
been a good defence. The act does not say it shall be
taken within sixty days after the importation of the slave,
but within sixty days after the removal of the owner.
The opinion of the court below was, that the oath
ought to have been taken within sixty days after the removal of the negro.i
9 The opinion of the court below seems to have been misunder.
stood by the counsel. The grounds upon which that court decided,
are believ~d to be, not th;t the son was bqund to take the oath )yith.
insixty'days after the removal of the sla-'e by the father, but' that
thefatherought to have taken the oath witlin sixty days after his
removal with the slave. The act does not require the oath to be
taken by the person who has the absolute property of the slave, but
by him who brings a slave into the state. The words of the oath'
are, "'nor have I brought -with me tny slaves with an intention of
selling them." The son might safely take the oath, and sell the
slave immediately, for he did not bring the slave with him, The
son would not have-been liable to the p6nalty of 200 dollars under
the 3d section, because he did not import the slave : but the father
would, because he did import him.

FEBRUARY, 180.
C. Lee, contra. The general rule is, that a slave imported sli-be free. Is the present case within the cxception
The father, being in possession of the slave, claiming
title and exercising auth6rity as owner, brought him from
Maryland into Alexandria. If he did so without authority from the sonrtand if the son was the true owner, and
if the slave was lost by the negligence, or in consequence
of the act of the father, he is liable to the son. The-father,
therefore, was a person to whom the effects of the 2d
section would extehd, and to save himself from those effects, it was his duty to have taken the oath prescribed by
the 4th section.
The rightto freedom which the slave acquires is not a mere penalty on the owner, but an independent right, not to be controuled by
its consequences. The object of the act was to discourage, and
gradually to abolish slavery ; or, at least, to prevent its increase.
Two means were adopted by the legislature. One was the prevention of further importations ; the other was the emancipation of such
as should be imported contrary to the act. This emancipation was
not apenalty intended solely to prevent importation, but a ,peifc
iernedy for the evil after it had happeivd. The penalty of 200 dollars,
under the 3d section, was the preventive means, and the emancipation, under the 2d section, was the remedial'ineans of accomplishing the object of the legislature. The evil.was not the importation
of freemen, but of slaves. To make slaves free was, therefore, as
direct an accomplishment of their object, as to prevent their importation. The act could not intend that the right to freedom, given
by the 2d section, should depend upon a title litigated between two
persons, each claiming to be the owner. The words are, " Slaves
which shall hereafterbe brtrgh into this commonwealth"--not by
their orvnrz, but by any person claiming and exercising authoritover them. If a stranger should take a slave from Maryland, elaip.
ing title, and bring him into Virginia, and keep him tlere a year,
the slave must, under the 2d section of the act, be free. And the
reinedy of the true owner must be against the wrong doer, in the
same manner as against a man vho should,, without authority, take
his slave from Maryland, and in attempting to cross the Potowmack,
theslave should be drowned. So, in this case, if the father, withiout
authority from the son, brought the slave from Maryland into Alex.
andria, and the slave thereby gains his freedom, by the negligence
pf the father, the father is liable to the son. The right of the slave
to his freedom does not depend upon the crime of the person who
may in law be adjudged to be the true owner. It is sufficient for
the slave to show that the person, in whose possession, and under
whos- .ontroul he was, and who daimed and exercised over hit the
authority of an owner, has violated the law, and done ie act which,
by law, confers upon him his freedom. The consequential damage
to the true owner cannot affhct the slave. He was not the cause of
the injury. The true owner must look to the author of the injury,
against whom the laws have provided him a remedy.

SCOTT

V
Nzcono LoxDON?.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Sco-rT
But it is clearly to be inferred from the 4th section
taken
together with the words of the oath, that the
v.f
NEGRO Losroath will protect the owner's title, only to such slaves as
DON.
~ he shall bring with him when he comes to reside in
Virginia. The words are, that nothing in the act
shall extend to him who may incline to remove, if, with.
in sixty days after " such removal," he shall make oath
that he has not "brought with him any slaves," with an
intention of selling them. It is not meant to say, that the
slave must come in at the same instant with the owner,
but it must be all part of one transaction. The son
never brought the slave into Alexandria. He was not
brought with the intent of residing here with the son.
Suppose the son had never come to reside in Alexandria, and the slave had been kept by the father, in
Alexandria, more than a year, what could prevent
the slave from obtaining his freedom ? Could it be ob.
jected, that the father was not the true owner, and that
the slave was kept there without the knowledge and
consent of the son ? Again, suppose the son had not
come till after the slave had been kept in Alexandria a
year by the father, and the son should then, within sixty days after his removal, take the oath, would that
destroy the slave's right to freedom ? If it would not,
it must be because the son could not connect the importation of the slave, with his own removal. Why
could he not connect an importation made thirteen
.,nonths before his removal, as well as an importation
made eleven months before his removal ? Is it because
a right to freedom had vested in the slave before the removal of the son? That cannot be; because the proviso says, that nothing in the act contained, shall extend
to those who may incline to remove, if, within sixty
days after such removal, they will take the oath. The
word nothing refers as well to the year's residence, as
to the first importation of the slave. It might be "said,
therefore, that the son did incline to r emove ; and
within sixty days after such removal, did take the oath,
and, therefore, he is'not to be affected by the year's residence. The length to which this argument may be carried, shows its sophistry. It leads to the entire destruction of the 2d section of the act ; for if the true
owner may come, and make oath afr.r one year, he

FERUARY A80.

829

may after fifty. Theiroviso, therefore, must be limited'
to an importation of the slave with his owner. Upon
this. construction, it will read thus:. 1' Provided that
nothing in this act shall extend to those who dhall remove with their ilabes, and who shall, within siity days
after such removal, tak the oath."
But 'the son did not remove with 'his slave, and;
therefore, is not within the benefit of the proviso..
z7ones, in reply. A slave do s no% under this act,
gain his freedom, unless he was biought in by his true
owner. The acquisition of freedom by the slave is a patt
of the penalty upon the owner, for violating the law
The freedom can only be acquired in a case where the
owner is liable to the penalty of 200 .dollars, under the
3d section.
When the owner and the slave do not come in at the
-same time; the sixty days begin to run from the time of
the removal of the master. "If the owner comes before
the" slave has resided due year in. Virginia, it is sudent,
February 19.
MARSHALL,

Cb. J. 4elivered the opinion of the,

court.
Tis- case arises under a clause; in an act of the V'irginia assembly; givng freedom tQ slaves who shal be
brought thereafter into that state, and kept .therein one
whole year together, or so long at different tiies as sha
amount to one yepr; and under- a proviso of thc same
act, that it shall fidt extend to any person'wbo may inclineto remove from any of tli6UfiitedStite, aid become
citizens of this, if, within sikt' days after stlch rdmoval
he shall take an oath which is prescribed in the act.
The negro 1.ondon ws .brought froni Mlyland into
Alexandia i where he was hired out, in the year 1802;
some -months -after which, his master; the plaintiff in
error, also removed into Alexandria, 'and within' theVoL IM
U

SovT
I..~ Lo.

B

STPREME COU.WT U. S.

339

AWq

ON-

year from the time 'the tege. was brought In, and plsc
within the sixty days from the time the plaintiff ii error

removed' tQ Alexandria"ihe oth prescribed by the law

%~P~~~1Ib/was

take~n.

No~rght to freedom having vested in Iondon at the
time this oath was taken, the question is, has it brough.
the plaintiff within the proviso of.the act?
That the plaintiff is within the letter of the proviso, 'q
tinquestionable. He is apersqn who incliped to reiovt
frdm one of the Uted States, into Virginia, whp aco
ually did remove, 'and who took te equisite oath wit4in the limited time.
But it is contended, in behalf ofthe defend ait iq error
that tle acts of- bringing the 'negro into 'the state' and 0
removing into it, must be concomitant, in order to bring
the case within the proviso-; Or in other words, that thd
9wner must be a person " inclining to remove it~to the
state," at the ime the slave was brought in. Thi inao.
curacy of construction seem to be founded on the -idea,
that the pen~lft of forfeiting the property, accrues or
bringing the slave into the state, whereas, it attaches on
his continuance in the state for twelve months. Till such
continuance.'has taken place,' the offence has not been
committed. If then, aU the' acts which brigg a persox
within the proviso, "aire performed before the right to
freedom is vested, and before the provisions of the act
'have been ikfracted, it seems to the 'court, that the rightq
of the party reimain unaffeted by the Ect.
If'London had been ordered to Maryland foa day, and
then brought Tthhis master into Alexandria, the construction of his counsel Vould be'satisfied ; and it seems'
strange, where the letter, of a law has not been violated
that sueh n uiWbprtant ircumst nce shoeWd affect its
spirit.
Unless this r.de be admitted, of coming within the
proviso,. a 'person incliing to'remove into Virginia
whose slaves had preceded him, though not for one year,
cq4.ld not bring himself within, or avoid the forfeiture,
although permitting them to come into that state was noc

FEBRUARY,' IM.

03L

bffence ;.. a construction of the-act-which the court cannot
think consistent with its spirit or letter.

Scoart
v.

This court is, therefore, bf-opinion; that the crquite.
court erred in directing'die jury that,, under the circumstances stated, the ptiiff below was entitled to his freedom, and doth reverse th&Judgment 'rendered- by tht
circuit cbur ahd remand the cause for further proceedings.
Judgment reversed.

WISE v. WITHERS,
V.

"WZTUU.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co.
lumbia, in an action of trespass ti et ,armis, for enteriug the plaintiffs house, and taking away his goods.
The defendant-justified ds collector of militia fines. The
plaintiff replied, that at the time when, &c,he was one
of the United States justices.of the peace, for the
tounty of Alexandria. - This replication, upon a gene-ral demurrer, was, by a majority of the court below,
gadjudg d bad; whereuponthe 1laintiff sued out a writ
of. error, and the questiohs 'ade On the argument
were,

Ajustice of
the peace, ia
the district of
Columbia, ia

T officer or
ule
goveniment of the

Unitestate

and is exempt
from militia
due u
martial has
not exclusive

jurisdictionof
that question,

1.. Whether a justice 6f the peace, for the county of and its Zn.
Aleandria, was liable to do militia duty? and
tcnce is no
Trespass Res

2. Whether an action of trespass will lie against the against a cal.
officer who'makes distress, for a fine assesbed unon a lectpr of milil
ta.fines, gzo
justice of thepeace by a courtmartial ?
distraiks fore
fine irzpnos4e4

C. Lee, for the plaintiff in error. This case depends by a ceot
upon the act of congress, of Mdrch 3d, 1803, entitled martial, upon
"1an act, more, effectually to provide for'the organiz;, a peton
tion of the militia of the district of Columbia," vo. 6, lle te
p. 237.

rolled in the

