SUPREME COURT U. S.
GoRDON
V.
'CALDpLZUGH

,.T AL.

held under the United States, and the, decisipi il
against the title, right, privilege or exemption, spe.
cially set up or claimed by eith6r party, under such
clause of the said constitution, treaty, statute or com.
mission.
In the present case, such of the defendants as were
aliens, filed a petition to remove the cause to the federal circuit court, under the 12th section of the same
act. The state court granted the prayer of the petition, and ordered the cause to be removed ; the decision, therefore, was not against the privilege claimed
under the statute ; and, therefore, this court has no
jurisdiction in the case,
The writ of error must be dismissed,

WzFZRAW
V.
TAYLORAND
MASSIE.

M'FERRAN v. TAYLOR AND MASSIE,

He who sells
ERROR, to a decree of the district court of the dis'-roperty on-a trict of Kentucky, in chancery.
description
gi, en by him-

self,isbound M'Ferran in his bill alleged that on the 19th of March,
in' equity to 1784, the defendant, Taylor, for a valuable consideration,
executed his bond to the complainant, for the conveyance
make good
tion ; pd ifof 200 acres of land out of 1,000 acres located by him on
it be untrue Hingston, or out of 5,000 acres which Taylor then hadt
izq a material for location. The condition of the bond was as follows :
point, al"that if the said Richard Taylor, his heirs &c. shall wevl
,tbough the
variance be and truly make, or cause to be ina Ie, to the said Martin
occasioned by M'Ferrhn, his heirs or assignp, a good sufficient title in
mistake, he fee simple to two hundred acres of land in the county of
must still re- Kentucky, out of 1,000 acre tract, located by the said
main liable

:Forthat va- Richard Taylor on Hingston'sforh bfLicing,; or 200
riance.
acres out of 5,000, which the said Taylor has now for
Qnere, if
location, provided he obtain the same, at such part or
the mistake
he amatter place thereof, as the said M'Ferran shall choose, not tQ
tiermed per- exceed more than twice the breadth in length thereof, so
fectly imma-

soon as the lands can, in any degree of safety, be sur-

FEBRUARY, 1806.

271

veyed; .then this obligation to be void, otherwise to remain in full force and virtue."
The bill further alleged, that on the 25th of Septembei,
in the same year," the defendant, Taylor, executed another bond to the complainant for 300 acres of land adjoining the former tract of 200 acres.
Thatthesaid 5,000 acres of land alludedto by the bonds,
was granted to Taylor, for his military services, by a warrant number'ed 1,734, which issded for 6,000 acres ; but
that Taylor did not inform the complainant that it contained more than 5,000 acres. That 1,000 acres of the 6,000
have been located on PaintCreek, and 2,000 on Brush
Creek, in the north-western territory, and 3,000 on the
Green River, in the district of Kentucky. That Taylor
had not any lands on Iingston, so that the complainant
cannot make his choice there, where he avers the general
quality *of the land is equal to any in Kentucky, and is
worth from 8 to 10 dollars an, acre. That Tiylor has sold
the 1,000 acres on Paint Creek to the defendant, J1fass4ie,
who, before he paid for the land, and obtaiaed a title fi'om
Taylor, had notice of the 4complainant's claim to 500
acres from Taylor, as before stated.
I
That before the sale to Massie, Taylor had sold the
2,000 acres on Brush Creek to Abraham Buford, or to
some one else, and in consequence thereof, assigned the
certificate of survey to John Brown. That in 1796, the
complainant applied to Taylor to show him his lands,
that he might make his choice, but Taylor neglected and
refused to show them; That the complainant chooses to
have the 500 acres laid off, and conveyed to him from
the land on PaintCreek, and has given notice of his choice
to Taylor, who refuses to convey the same from out of
that tract, and refuses to accompany the complainant to
have the same laid off ; and that Massie also refuses to
convey.
The bill concludes with a prayer, that the complainant
may be permitted to make choice of 500 acres of land out
of the 1,000 acres on Paint Creek ; that the defendants
may be compelled to convey the same ; and that the court
would grant general relief, &c.

,'FzxfxA.
V.

TAYLO .AM6
MASSIF_-

terial by 8olh

parties, at the
the
of, and.
time
contract
of a roatter

which would.
not have vu.
fted the bar-.
been imov.h
which
and
bothofparties
wer equally
ignorant
whether a
of equicourt
ty ought
t
int rr.t
A fiding by
the jury,
which contradicts a fact
admitted by
thepleadings.
is to be disregarded.

272

I 'FER,,N
TAYLOR AND
MAftSIR

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The answer of the defendant, Taylor, admitted the
bonds, and that the 500 acres were to be laid off in one
tract. It alleged, that the consideration of the first bond
was two horses, sold to him by the complainant, at the
price of 401. Virginia currency for both; and that
the consideration of the other bond was another horse,
valued at 48/. It refers to the entry for the 1,000
acres upon the waters of Licking, dated June 1.th, 1780,
which is in-these words : " Colonel Richard Taylor en-ters one thousand acres on treasury-warrants, adjoining
an entry of Major Thompson's, on a buffaloe road leading
from Hinfgstoh's fork to the sweet licks, beginning at his
south-east corner, thence north along said Thompson'e
line 600 poles, thence east for quantity." The answer
then avers, that the mentioning of ingston's fork of
Licking in the bond, was not a description of localty, but
of tract; and that the mentioning Kingston was no
greater recommendation of the land than if arlother fork
of Licking had been named ; because both parties were
unacquainted with it, and Taylor had upaderstood that his
said entry was'on Hingston. That the provision in the
bond for a choice out of 5,000 acres was an alternative
and it was not intended that the complainant should have
his choice out of the 6,000 acre warrant ; and it was intended, and understood by both parties, that Taylor
should hold 1,000 acres thereof, unincumbered, and not
liable to the complainant's choice. It avers further, that
these 1,000 acres were located on the shares on Paint
Creek; that Taylor held part, and Kinton and Helm
another pirt, as locators ; that he sold his part to Massie, but he does not recollect the quantity. Of the remaining 5,000 acres he exchanged 2,000 with Colonel Abraham Buftrd, for two entries of 1,000 acres each, because
there was a greater probability of getting good land upon
small entries than .upon large. That these 2,000 acres
were located on the south side of Green River. That the
other lot-o 2,000 acres, part of the 5,000, was located on
the north fork of Paint Creek, but understanding the
land was not good, he had 1,500 acres withdrawn, and
finally located on some of the waters of Paint 6reekrashe
is intornred ; but he is so much unacquainted with that
country, that he cannot point it out particularly. Thq remaining 1,000 "acres are located and patented south of
Green River. That he han offered the complainant a
choice of any of those lands, except the 1,000 acres held

VEBiRUARY, 1806.

273

nn
by Massie, Kenton, and Helm, which he has refused. M'FzBI
.A
T
That the 500 acres on the north fcrk of PaintCreek, TAYLOR
MASSIS
are inferior to the other lands, as he has beefi informed
and believes; and the complainant having poaitively refused them, Taylor has sold them. But the 1,500 acres
on the waters of Paint Creek, which were originally part
of the 2,000 acre lot, .nd the three tracts of 1,000 acres
each, south of Green River, are yet held by him ready for
the choice of the. complainant. That Taylor informed
the conqplainant, befote the commencement of this suit,
fully of the exchange with Buford, and has been always
ready and willing to let him have his 500 acres as aforesaid. That-Taylor informed the complainant of his said
military warrant ; and that it was for 6,000 acres; and that
he reserved 1,000 acres thereof, Which it was then possible
he might want to live on, and that the complainant's right
of choice was only to extend to the remaining 5,000
acres. That since Taylor discovered, that the first mentioned 1,000 acres laid on Slate Creek, a branch of Lick.
in, and not on Ilingston, a branch of Licking, he in,
formed the complainant thereof, and also that he had no
lands on Hingston.

The axiswer of Massie denied, that previous to his payingthe consideiation bfthe land to Taylor, and the issuing
of the patent, he had any notice that the complainant had
iny claim to that land, and averred that he was a bonafide
purchaser, fok a valuable consideration, without notice.
ThejWy (who, by the practice of Kentucky, are called
to ascertain facts in chancery suits) found the following
facts :
1. That the defendant executed the bonds.
2. That at that time he had no lands on .Ringston's
fork f Licking.
3. That on the 20th of August, 1795, he assigned to,
John Brown, the plot and certificate of survey, &c. (the
2,006 acres before mentioned) which survey was made by
virtue of a military warrant, No. 1,734.M
VOL.11

X.

F

SUP RHME COURT U. S,

2f4

4. That on the .31st of July, 1797, he assigned to
M'FRRAH
Massie, &c. the 1,000 acres before mention d being a
V.
TAYL..ot AND
survey df part of the same warrant.
MASSIR.

5. That the complainant demanded of Taylor 500
acres, in virtue of the said bonds, before ,the commencement of this suit- but it does not appear that any lands
have been conveyed in compliance with that demand ;
neither does it appear that any particular piece of land was
pointed out by the complainant, whei the gaid demand
was made, except that he had. made his election to have
500 acres out of the survey assigned to Massie, and
gave notice thereof to Taylor, who refused to convey it.
6. That 500 acres might be laid off in that survey worth
five dollars an acre, ifi the form called for in the bonds.
7. That the T,000 acres mentioned in the bonds, were
part of the Warrant No. 1734, for 6,000 acres, granted
to Taylor for his own services.
8. That Taylor had the entry of 1,000 acres of June

15th, 1780.
9. That when the bonds were executed, Taylor had a
iiiitary warrant for 6,000 acres, 1,000 whereof were entered on Paint Creek, in partnership with the locators,
and since assigned to Massie; 2,000 were exchanged
with Abraham Buford, for other 2,000 acres of military
warrants, in separate entries of 1,000 each, because
Taylor deemed it more piobable that he should get good
land on small efitries than on large ones.
10. That 1,000 acres of the said 5,000 were entered on
the south side of Green River.
11. That the remainder of the 5,000 acres is located on
Paint Creek, 'or its waters.
12. That Taylor is willing that the complainant should
make his choice out of any of the three tracts of 1,000
acres each, south of Green River, or out of the 1,000 acres
on the'waters of Licking, or out of the 500.acres, or the
1,500 acres, dn the waters of Paint Creek.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

27T

1. That the average price of lands on' Hingston is M'Fzn .-t
V.
three and Ahalf dollars per acre, and on Slate two dollars
per acre.. -

14. The 1,000 acres adjoining Thompson are worth.
two dollars per acre.
15. The land- transferred from Taylor to Buford.is
worth one dollar and fifty cents per acre.
16. The land transferred by Buford to Taylor is worth
two dollars per acre.
The decree'of the district court, upon the bill, anpwers, and facts found, was, in substance,
That the complainant should, on or before the' lst of
September then next, make choice bf his 500 acres out of
the following tracts of land, to wit: 1,000 acres adjoin,
ing Major Thompson's entry, on a buffaloe road leading
from Ringston'sfork to the Sweet Licks ; the 2,000
acres transferred by Buford to Taylor;. the 1,000 acres
entered in the name of Taylor on Lost Creek, a branch
of the Ohio ; the 500, or the 1,500 on -PaintCreek; and
give notice to Taylor of such choice within one month
after it should be made.
Commissioners were appointed to lay off and survey
the said 500 acres for the complainant; and it was further
decreed, that Taylor should; before tlhe 1st of November,
then next, convey the said 500 acres to the complainant;
'but if the complainant should not make his cioice, and
give notice as aforesaid,-then Taylor should, on oi before
th 25th of the then next November, convey to the complainant, 500 acres out of one of the said tracts, in a reasonable form, according to the condition of thebonds; and
that Taylor should pay the costs of the suit.
Upon this decree the complainant sued out his writ of
error.

Breckenridge, attorney-general, for plaintiff in error.
The record shows, that Taylor had no land oq Hingston,

LIsau;.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
and that,-at the time of the decree,- the plaintiff had not
V.
TAYLOR ANDv theliberty to choose out of the 5,QOOacres.
'FzLA

MAsszz.

When a specific execution of a contract is decreed, i
must be decreed to be executed entirely, or not at all.
Contracts receive the same construction in a court ot
equity as in a couit of law. Neither can make an agree.
ment for the parties.
A court of law, in the constru~ction of the presen
bond, on an action of debt, upon a breqelc of the 'condition in iiot conveying land oil Hingston, could not consider thebond as discharged by the conveyance of land on
Slate Creek.
The defendant knew, or ought to have known, his propert , so as iot to deceive the'plaintiff.
The difference in value between the lands on-those two
water courses, is found'by the jury to be a dollar and .
half,per acre.' Suppose the land on Slate Creek had been
worth ten times as much as that on fingstdn, the defendant could not, by this bond, have been compelled to,
onvey land on Slate Creek, when he had contracted to
onvey land on Hingvtonq
As the defendant,-therefore, bad no lands on Hingston,
a specific performance of the contract- was imptacticable,
and, therefore, the plaintiff was, at least, entitled to damAges to the value of those lands.
-Thedecree is erroneous in another point. It directs
the plaintiff to make choice out of 5,000 acres of the defendant's land, -when it is confe6sedby the answer that
the defendant had but 4;500 acres ; the 500 on the waters
of PaintCreek having been sold by him. It is true, that
the 12th fact found is, that the defendant is willing to let
the plaintiff have his choice out 6f all his military lands,
including these 500 acres, but a jury can find nothing
contrary to that which is confessed or not denied in the
pleadings.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

277

The court below has decreed that the defendant may
speciflcally*executehis contract, although it appears
I

3'FzunA~r
V.

TAYLOR ANID

M]AssIE.

1. That he has no land on ringston.
2. That he has sold 500 acres of the 5,000, and, consequently,
3. That the 6,000 acres out of which the plaintiff had a
right to choose, is reduced to 4,500.
By the contract, the plaintiff had a right to choose out
pf 6,000 acres, and as the defendant had no land on
Hingston, is it not fair and equitable that the plaintiff
should have liberty to choose out of the defendant's 6,000
acres? And as the defendant has reduced the plaintiff's
choice to 4,500 acres of land, inferior to the other 1,500
acres, the plaintiff seems to be entitled to damages for the
"difference in quality.
The plaintiff is certainly entitled either to a choice out
of the whole of the defendant's military lands, or damages equal to the whole value of the lands on Hingston.

Hughes, for defendant in error. Two questions arise
in this-case:
1. Had the plaintiff a right to choose lands not mentioned iii the bond?
2. Has any conduct of the defendant enlarged the plaintiff's right of choice, under the contract?
The bill charges no fraud.
Massie's 11000 acres were not within the plaintiff's
choice. Taylor meant to reserve these 1,000 acres unincumbered. The plaintiff was to choose only out ofs,00
acres ; and, although'Taylor had a right to locate 6,000
acres, yet that was no reason for the plaintiff's claim to
choose out of the whole 6,000. The answer of Taylor
positively denies that ihe plaintiff's Choice was intended,
or understood' by either party, to extend to the whole
6,000 acres of military land; and this answer being re-

278
M'FERRAN

V.

TAYLOR AND
MASSIE.

SUPREM.E COURT T1. S.

sponsive to an allegation in the bill, and not contradicted
by evidence, is conclusive upon that point.
2. Has any eonduct of the defendant enlarged the plain-

tiff's right of choice ?

He relies on the mistake in the description of the land,
but does not allege fraud.
If ihwas a mistake, both parties were equally ignorant, as both lived in Botetourt county, in Virginia.
It was not known to either, that the lands on one of the
creeks was more .valuable than those on the other, or
that they would become so in the course of the twenty
years which have now elapsed since the date of 'the contract;.
The words of the bond are, " out of one-thousand
acre tract located by the said Ricbard Taylor, on l1ingston's Fork of Licking-." The real location was, "on a
buffaloe road leadingfrom .Hingston'sfork to the sweet
licks." The descriptio'n was intended to be df the'
tract located by the defendant several years before, and
was not intended to fix its locality. - Both the parties
meant the same thing; they meant the 1,000 acre
tract located by the defendant in 1780, wherever it
might lie. The fact turned out to be, that the tract
did not lie exactly as it was supposed to lie, but still it
was the same tract which was contemplatedby both
parties. The description" onHingston"s fonk of Lick.
ing," could not, at that time, influence 'the plaintiff i
he has not eveh averred in "his bill that it did.
The defendant has always been ready and willing to
give the plaintiff his choice in the land actually intended by both parties, at the time of the contract,
The jury have found thepresent comparative value
of the lands, not what it was twenty-two years ago. It9
present value may depend on a variety of qircumstan.
ces, which could not have been foreseen and contem
jlated at ihe time of the contract.

FEBRUARY, 1806.
The xdefendant is ready.specifically to execute the

contract as it was understood by the parties at the
time: but, as the plaintiff now construes it, it cannot
be executed specifically, and, therefore, tl~ere is'no
ground for-an equitable jurisdiction. The party must
be left to his remedy at law.

M'FEnxAK

V.

r

TAYLOR ANM:
1AssL.

There is no contradiction between the admission in
the defendant's answer, that he had sold the 500 acres
which the plaintiff had refused, and the 12th fact found
by the jury, that the defendant was willing that the
complainant should make his choice out of those 500;
for, although the defendant may have sold fhem, yet, it
does not appear that he has conveyed them away and
he nlay be willing to forfeit his contract for the sale of
them, if the plaintiff should choose them; or if conveyed, he may be willing to take the chance of repurchasing them.
The Attorney-general, in reply. Unde,,no rational or
Itgal construction of the bonds can they be supposed to
refer to lands located on Slate Creek, when they mention lands located on Itngston. This would be to make,
and not to construe the contract. The acquirement of
land on Hing'ston was the plaintiff's object. It was unimportant to him by whom, or when the lands were located.
If the defendant had contracted to transfer, on a certain .day, 6 per centstock, he could not discharge that contract by the transfer of 3 per cent stock, although he
shourd make up in quantity, the difference of value arising from the different quality of the stock. But here the
defendant offers only the same quantity 9 f inferior land.
It is no excuse for the defendant to say, that no fraud
was intended by him in describing the land as lying on
Bingston, when it laid on Slate; and that it was a mere
mistake of a name. Whether it happened by mistake, or
fraud, is totally immaterial to the plaintiff. 'the defendant
sold, and the plaintiff bought the land, on the defendant's
own description. He was bound to describe it truly. But
the jury have found his description to be false in'a "veryi
important pardicular, The injury to the plaintiff is the

suPtIME c &RMT
M'FzRARq

V.

TAYLOR AND

MASSIE.

u, 9.

same, whatever may have been the motives of the defenda
ant, and he i's equally bound to repair the injuiy.
plaintiff, therefore, if not entitled to the land on
Paint Creek, which he has'elected, Or to the value thereof,
is entitled to the value of the lands on Hingston.

SThe

MV4ARSHALL,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the court,

The bill states the original contracts,,and claims a spe,
cific performance, by permitting the plaintiff to elect the
500 acres to which he is entitled, out of the tract of 1,00C1
acres, which had been located on PaintCreek; and also
contains a prayer for general ielief.

On the specific object of the bill, the right to make an
election out of the lands on Paint Creek, there can be no
difficulty. One thousand acres, part of the original vari
rant, having been clearly withdrawn at the time of the
contract, from the quantity out of which the 5W acresi
sold by the defendant, were to be chosen, there can be no
pretext for the claim set up in the bill,
As little foundation is there for the claim to dainageil
instead of the land itself, on account of the 500 acres stat,
ed il the answer to have been sold; which sale, the coun
sel for the complainant considers as a'wrong which hal
put out of his client's reach a tract he had a right to elect1
and has, consequently, disabled the defendant from complying with his contracto
To this claim, -two answers may be given, eith6r of
which would completely defeat it.
1st. The fact found by the'jury shows, that the defendant is still ready to convey this land. The attorney-general would exclude this finding from the casei because it
contradicts the admission of the answer ; and it is a rule
of law, that a finding whidh contradicts a fact admitted itz
the pleadings, is to be disregarded.
The principle of law is unquestionably laid down correctly ; but the court can perceive no incompatibility between the admission of the answer, and the fact, as found
by the jury. They may both be true; and, of conse-

FEBRUARY, 1806.

281

quence, the court must consider both as true. After the

I'Fz-n:

answer
aw was filed, the land may have been repurchased by

TAYLOR AN"P

Mr. Taylor, and such a repurchase would have been

MAssIE.

proper evidence to justify the fact found by the jury, and

would put him in a situation to perform his contract, so
far as respected this particular tract. But were it even
otherwiseThe 2d answer is, that the concession made by the
defendant must be taken altogether. Ile states the complainant to have refused this particular tract of 500 acres
before it was sold. The complainant had, consequently,
elected not to take it, and, of course, the defendant was at
liberty to dispose of it.
The other point in the case is attended with more difficulty. It'is, that the representation made by Taylorat
the time of the sale, was untrue in a material point. He
represented the tract of 1,000 acres W~hich had been located, and out of which the plaintiff would have a right to
take the lands he purchased, to lie on .ingston'sfork of
Licking-, when, in truth, it lay on Slate, another branch
of the same river, where the lands prove to be less valuable than on Hingston. That this misrepresentation is
material, cannot be denied; but it is. contended by the
defendant, that it originated in mistake, not in fraud;' and
as the country was at that time unknown to both the contracting parties, and the material object was to give the
purchaser a right to take the land he had purchased out of
the tract already located for the seller, an accidental
error in the description of the place where the tract in
contemplation of the parties lay ; an error which could
have had, at the time, no influence on the contract, ought
not now to affect the person who has innocently committed it.
From the situation of the parties and of the country,
.and from the form of the entry, it is reasonable to presume, that this apology is true in point of fact ; but the
court does not conceive that the fact will amount to a legal justification of the person who has made the misrepresentation." He who sells property on a description
given by himself , is bound to make good that description;
and if it be untrue in a material point, although the variance be occasioned by a mistake, he must still remain
VoL IIL
0o

SUPREME COURT U. S.
A'F-,uRA

V.

TAYLOR AND
MASSIF.

liable for that variance. In this case, the dclendant has

sold land on Hingston, and offers land on Slate. He has
sold that which he cannot convey, and as he cannot exehis contract, he must answer in damages.

Scute

It is, therefore, the opinion of the court, that the plaintiff is entitled to an issue, to ascertain the damages he has.
sustained by the inability of the defendant to perform his
contract, and to the damages which shall be found.
Although, in the general principles laid down, the court
was unanimous, I did not, in consequence of the particular circumstances of this case, concur in the opinion
which has been delivered. I will briefly state those circumstances.
In his bill, the plaintiff does not allege, that he was, in
any degree, induced to make the contract, by supposing the
land already located fo lie on Hington'sforh. This representation, then, was an accidental circumstance which hao
not, in the slightest degree, influenced his conduct. Nor
does he now, in his bill, urge this variance in the description of the property as a reason for claiming damages, instead of the specific thing contracted to be sold. Nor does
it appear, that this claim was set up in the district court.
On the contrary, he alleges, that the land on Paint Greek
is also in his power, and insists on making his election out
of that tract. Under such a bill, in a case where the contract is a very advantageous one to the purchaser, I am
not convinced that a court of equity ought to award him
damages, on account of an error in the description of the
property which was innocent in itself, which at the time
appeared to be unimportant, and which most obviously
did not conduce to, or in any manner affect, the contract.
The person claiming damages in such a case ,siould, I
think, be left to his remedy at law. I should, therefore,
have been disposed to affirm the decree of the district
court. I am, however, perfectly content with that which
I have been directed to deliver.*
The judges present were,. Mfarsall, Ch. J. Patecron, Vat-

;ngton, and .7ohnson, Justices.

