FEBRUARY, 1806.

WILSON v. SPEED.

WILSoN
V.

Srv.
An assignee

ERROR to the district court of Kentucky, on a
judgment which dismissed the caveat oE Wilson against
Speed.

of a preempwarrant
tion
is heid
to be a
competent
witness, if

these. words : C Let no grant issue the facts inThe
Thecaveat
ave was
wa initize
the
o rdsLt
no grantucsse tended to be
to Jame Speed, a citizen of the state of Kentucky, red by hii.

Sor 139 acres of land, said to be surveyed upon an en- testimon)
try of 200 acres, by virtue of a treasury-warrant, not tend to
number 13,800, the 24th of November, 1782, and the
survey dated the 10th day of November, 1797, because John Wilson, a citizen of the state of Virginia,
claims the same; part by virtue of a survey made on

support
the
title of tho
party produ.
cing him
A gmeral
dismisa
of

his settlement-right, the 20th day of January, 1786,
and part by virtue of a survey made on the entry of
his prdemption-warrant, on the 20th day of January,
1dadoes
l786, for Andrew Cowan, and assigned by him to
William Dryden, for his use; which claims are of 'a
superior nature to the said Speed's. April22d, 1799. l

dsplsaotiff'
car-at, in
Kentucky,

(Signed)

" Joss1 WILSON."

The facts appearing upon the record, so far as they
are pertinent to the questions before this court, were
as follows :
In the year 1776, Wilson made an improvement, by
raising a crop on the land, and built part of a cabin.
In consequence of this improvement, he obtained,
on the 16th of February, 1780, a certificate for a settlement-right to 400 acres, and a right of preemption
to 1,000 acres.
On the same day Andrew Cowan obtained a certificate for the preemption of !,000 acres, on account of
marking a4d improving the same, in the year 1776,
adjoining the lands of John Wilson on the north side,
to itzclude his improvement.

not pur-

port to be a
judgment

UPn the merit.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WxILso
V.

k

SP ED.

On the 23d of October, 1780, Andrew Cowan en,

tered a preemption-warrant for 1,000 acres, on the
head-waters of Boon's Mill Creek, to include his cabin,
and the head-waters of several small branches running
into Kentucky and Dick's river. " Also, as assignee
of 7ohn Wilson's one thousand acres, adjoining the
above, includingsaid Wi/son's cabin."
On the 29th of April, 1783, John Wilson entered
" 400 acres of land, by virtue of a certificate for settlement, lying on a dividing ridge between the waters of
Kentucky, and Dick's rivers, to include part of both
waters, and his improvement."
These 400 acres were surveyed for Wilson on the
20th of January, 1786; and were never assigned by
him.
On the same day, the 1,000 acres, upon the preemption warrant, were surveyed for Andrew Cowan,
as assignee of Wilson.
On the back of this original certificate of survey,
was written an assignment, purporting to be from An.
drew Cowan to William Dryden,and attested by Y1
2oung
,Ewing." And also an assignment, (made by order of
Garrard county court, during the pendency of the present caveat) by certain commissioners, in behalf of the
heirs of Dryden, to William Buford.
On the 24th of November, 1782, James Speed,' the
defendant, entered 200 acres upon a treasury-warrant,
the survey upon which was the cause of the present
caveat.
This survey was for 139 acres, part of (he 200, dated
the 10th of November, 1797, and interfered with Wilson's survey of 400 acres, upon his settlement-right,
and with that for 1,000 acres preemption, which were
surveyed in the name of Andrew Cowan, as assignee
of Wilson. Upon the inquiry into the facts before the
jury, the plaintiff, Wilson, took two bills of exceptions,
The first stated, that he offered to produce the sani(
Andrew Cowan, (who had released to the plaintiff and.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

285

all claiming under him, all his, the said Cowan's, right
to the land, &c.) to prove, that although •the preemption-warrant for the 1.000 acres was taken out in his
name, it was not taken out by him, or -with his privity ;
and that, although the entry was in his name, it was
not made by him, or with his privity. And also, to
prove, that he never did, and does not now, set up
any claim or title to the said preemption, or any part
thereof. Also, to prove, that the assignment on the
original survey of the said preemption, now brcught
into court by the register of the land-office, purporting
to b&an assignment made by the said Cowan to William Dryden, was not executed by him ; the execu*.ion
of the same not being proved by" Toung Ewing," the
attesting witness to the same.
But the court was of opinion, that the said Cowan
was not a competent witness, and excluded him from
giving testimony.
The 2d bill of exceptions stated, that, after the testimony of Cowan was excluded, the plaintiff offered to
produce Charles Campbell, to'tprove that the said assignment, and the signature thereunto, as well as the
paine of the attesting witness, were in the hand-writing
of William Dryden ; to the admission of which testimony the defendant objected, alleging, that "22oung
Ebing," the subscribing witness, ought to have been
produced, and the court being of that opinion, the
testimony of Charles Campbell was also excluded; and
the caveat was dismissed, with costs.
Hughes, for the plaintiff in error, contended, that
the judgment of the court below was erroneous, for
two reasons.
1st. Because the witnesses who were rejected, were
competent. And,
2d. Because the caveat ought not to have been dismissed, as to that part of the defendant's survey which
interfered with Wilson's survey of 400 acres, upon his
settlement-right.

WILsON
V.
SPrv.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Wn.soN

1. As to the rejection of the witnesses.

V.

If Cowan had any interest, it was removed by the
release. And if it be alleged, that he ought not to be
permitted, upon the ground of impolicy, to discredit
his own paper, the answer is, that that principle has
been applied only to negotiable paper; but here the
witness is called merely to disprove what is alleged to
be his hand-writing. It is to show, that he never put
his hand to the paper, and not to invalidate a paper to
which he had given a credit, by subscribing his name.
The counsel for the defendant below relied upon the
case of Walton v. 'Shwly, 1. T. R. 296 ; but, besides
the inapplicability of the case, it- has been overruled
by that of 7ordainc v. Lashbrooke, 7 T. .R. 691.
But Campbells testimony ought not to have been rejected. The court rejected it-6n the' ground, that
"Toung Ewing," the subscribing witness, ought to
have been produced. It is true, that if we had wanted
to establish the assignment fr-om Cowan as genuine,
it would have been intcumbent upon us to have produced Tounk E-fing, or accounted for his absence. But,
if the assigrrment was fictitious, how was Young Ewing
to prove that Cowan did not execute it ? He could
only s v, that his own name was not writien by himself, and thdt he did not subscribe his name as a witness
to that instrument ; but it does not necessarily follow,
that Cowan did not execute the assignmbnt. The testimony of Young Ewing was not the best evidence of
the fact that the plaintiff wished to prove. Whereas,
Campbell could have proved expressly, that the whole
assignment and signatures were written by Dryden,
and not by Cowan and Ewing.
9. But the judgment is erroneous, because it dismissed the caveat, and did not decide which of the
parties "hath the better right." It does not appear to
have been decided upon its merits ; particularly, as far
as the plaintiff claimed a settlement-right.
grechenridge, Attorney-General, for defendant.
The testimony of Cowan was properly rejected ouk
three grounds.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

287

1. Because it went to prove a title different from
that set up by the plaintiff.
The act of assembly requires, that the caveat should
express "1the nature of the right, on which the plaintiff therein claims the land."
The caveat states, that he claims "by virtue of a
survey, made on the entry o.- his preemption-warrant," "1for Andrew Cowan, and assigned by hint to
William Dryden, for his" (the plaintill's) " use."
The proof offered was, that the survey and warrant
never were assigned by Cowan. The plaintiff, therefore, wished to bring proof to contradict his own allegations.
The jury are, by the land-law, to find "1such facts
as are material to the cause, and not agreed by the parties." But the facts offered to be proved, wereforeign
to the cause.
2. Because the testimony went to contradict and
falsify a record.
According to the uniform decisions of the courts in
Kentucky, warrants, entries and surveys, are matters
of record, as much as the patent. The record produced by the plaintiff, show, that the warrant, entry
and survey, are in the name of Cowan, and that Cou.
an assigned to Dryden, and that Dryden's heirs, by a
decree of Garrard county court, assigned to Buford.
The facts would have been contradicted by the testimony offered.
But if the plaintiff could be permitted to invalidate
or falsify the record, it could not be done on the trial
of a caveat, which is intended as the means of trying
legal rights to incipienttitles-titles which are on their
passage to maturity. Ante, vol. 1, p. 66. It is a proceeding in derogation of the common law, and ought
to be strictly pursued. If Cowan has no title, or is
only a trustee, this inquiry cannot be made in the trial

WILSo.-1
v

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSON
SPEED.

of a caveat, but must be made in equity.

Dryden's

heirs cannot be bound by such an exparte inquiry; and
are interested as assignees of Cowan, In order
to overturn the claim of Speed, Wilson must have had
a prior existing legal right.

Sthey

3. Because the witness might be ultimately benefited
by the event of the suit.
The release is of no avail; it came from the wrong
quarter. Cowan ought to have been released by Dryden's heirs and Buford.
Cowan is interested in one of two ways, or in both.
1st, In the ultimate goodness of the title by his as'
signment, or5 2d. For having assigned that to which
If Wilson prevails, Cowan is
lie had no claim.
benefited, because the .title which he transferred is
sanctioned and settled by the decision, If the determination of a cause may, perhaps, prevent a suit
against the witness, he is inadmissible. .Esp). A
P. 705.

As to the correctness of excluding Campbell's tes.
timony, there can be no doubt. . To have received it,
would have violated that known rule, that the subscrib.
ing witness to an instrument must be produced. This
rule, it is true, has some exceptions, but noze that will
include this case. .Esp. Mr P. 780.
But if all the testimony offered had been admitted,
it would have been irrelevant; and would'have been
bad upon demurrer. At the time of entering the caveat, the plaintiff had no right in law, because it was
registered in the name of Dryden. At the time of
the decree, it was in Buford, under the decision of the
court of Garrurd county.
With respect to the 2d point made by the plaintiff's
counsel, viz. that the cavedit was not dismissed upon
the merits, so far as relates to the plaintiff's scttlemnentright, he is probably mistaken in point of fact.

FEBRUARY,

1806.

289

The judgment of the court, although not altogether
full and formal on this point, justifies the inference
that the court did examine into the merits of that
claim. Of this, however, the court here will judge
for themselves, upon an inspection of the judgment
itself,- as stated on the record. It says "1 the court being now sufficiently advised of, and concerning thepremises, is of opinion, that the caveatherein be dismissed ;" and this is the only judgment which could have
been given against the plaintiff. If the judgment had
been for the defendant, it would have said, that he had
the better right.
Hughes, in reply. It has always been the practice of
the courts in Kentucky, to decide the fight to be iht
the plaintiff or defendant, when the decision is on the
merits.

The testimony offered, did not go to prove a different title from that set up by the plaintiff; it went to
prove his allegation to be substantially true.
The process by caveat is a summary remedy, and
the law, by directing the court to decide according to
the very right of the case, gives a chancery jurisdiction. In case of a caveat, there can be no legal title.
It is a process given expressly to prevent a legal title.
The entry, &c. are not matter of record. It is
true, there appears to be an assignment on a paper in
the register'* office, but that does not make the assign.
ment a record.
Cowan was not interested. He was not'liable to
Dryden if the assignment was a forgery.
Campbell's testimony was the best evidence, to prove
the fact for which it was offered. That of the subscribing witness might be the best evidence that the
assignment was genuine, but not that it was a forgery.
Vol in.

Pn

WILSOU
v.

SPEWD.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

290
'WxIsoq

s~zm.

The judgment was not upon the merits, and there is
nothing in the record, from which a contrary inference
can be drawn.

MARSHALL,

February 14.
Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the

court.
In this case, the errors assigned ares
1. That testimony has been improperly rejected by
the judge of the district court,
2i That-the caveat, as to that part of the land which
was claimed in virtue of the survey on Wilson's settlement-rizht, was improperly dismissed.

The caveat, so far as respets the claim of Wilson,
in virtue of the survey on his preemption-warrant)
thus stated his tide : "John Wilson claims, by virtue
of the survey, made on the entry of his preemptionwarrant, for Andrew Cowan, and assigned by him to
William Dryden, for his use."
The preemption-warrant issued on Wilson's certificate to Andrew Cowan, as assignee thereof; the survey was made in Cowan's name, and is assigned to
William Dryden, but the assignment does not purport
to be for the use of John Wilson.
At the trial, the plaintiff offered to prove, that the
assignment to Cowan was made in trust for himself,
and that the assignment to Dryden was never made by
Cowan. The witness, by whom these facts were to be
substantiated, was Cowan himself. He was objected
to by the counsel for the defendant, as incompetent,
and the objection was sustained by the court. To this
opinion of the district judge, an exception was taken,
and the question proposed, is the competency of Cowan to prove the fact, that he never was entitled to the
land in controversy, and did not make the assignment
of the survey.

FEBRUARY,

1806.

We put the release out of the case, because it cannot
affect the interest of Cowan, if he had any, that interest being a liability to the person appearing to be his
assignee.
Upon 'a consideration of this fact, and its connection with a caveat brought by Wilson, the witness appears to the court, to stand free from any possible ob,
jection on the part of the defendant. It would not ap-.
pear, that he could derive a benefit from proving in
this cause, that he never was entitled to the lqnd in
dispute, and never assi-ned the survey.
But, from the facts proposea by the plaintiff, which
were before the court, itappearsthat Dryden had sold
to Buford, for whose .benefit this caveat was really
brou ghL; and- it'is alleged by the, counsel for the defendant, that, if the testimony df the witness would
establish-the right of those who might ultimately resort
to him. utrder his supposed assignment, and such a
suit would beprevented by a decision of this-caveat,
in favour of Wils'6n, he is, therefore, an incompetent witness -; but he court does'not perceive, that this
consequence wodld flow from the testimony; .and if it
is imagined, that Cowan might suspect it, this would
constitute an objection, rather to his credft than his
Cowan, therefore. was competent tQ
competency.
prove the facts; to establish which, his testimony was
offered. But if he had been received, and had established those facts, what would have been their amount?
They-are,
" That Cowan never did purchase the said preemp.
tion, did not make the entry on the preemption-war,
rant, or survey it, or procure it to he surveyed, and
does not mow, nor ever did, claim title to the same.

" That the plaintiff, claiming to own the land, did sell
it to William Dryden, who sold the same to Wlliam
Buford, for whose benefit the caveat was brought."
These are the-facts, which the plaintiff proposed to
prve, and which are stated on the recorL Rad they

W;LSoX

V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
WILSoN
V.

been proved, it appears to the court, that the caveat
ought to have been dismissed. These facts do not
Ssupport the title set up in the caveat.
it is conceived by this court, that the statements
made in the caveat could only be supported by an assignment, which, on the face of it, purported to be for
the use of Wilson.
That an assignment made to
Dryden, whereby the legal ownership of the survey
was conveyed to him, although, in fact, intended for
the benefit of Wilson, would not enable Wilson to
maintain a caveat in his own name. It would authorise' him to use the name of Cowan, but not to pr9secute the suit in his own name. If, however, a contrary practice has been firmly established in Kentucky,
the court would be very unwilling to shake that practice.
But in this case, the assignment to Dryden was not, in
fact, for the use of Wilson, but-of Dryden himself.
The testimony, therefore, if received, could only
have defeated the plaintiff's action. It cannot be said,
therefore, that the judge has erred in dismissing the caveat, as to the part claimed under the preemption-warrant.
But, with respect to so much of the caveat as was
supported by the survey on the settlement-right, no exception of form, or to the testimony, has been taken,
and it ought not, therefore, to have been dismissec
but on the merits., On this point, therefore, there i
error in the judgment of the district court, for which
it must be reversed.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of
the record of the proceedings of the court, for the
district of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel, on
consideration whereof, it seems to the court, that there
is error in the judgment of the district court in this,
that the caveat entered by the plaintiff was entirely
dismissed, whereas, it ought to have been decided bn
its merits, so far as respected that part of the land
which was claimed by the plaintiff under his survey of
four hundred acres. It is, therefore, considered by
the court, that the said judgment be reversed and an-

FEBRUARY, 1806.

uulled ; and that the defendant pay to the plaintiff, his
costs. And the cause is remanded for further proceedings.

WI LSO

t

V.

BuDDICUnt

BUDDICUM v. KIRK.

V.

Notice of tile
timeandplaca
ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co. of
taking a
lumbia, in an action of debt against the defendant, as deposition,
heir at law of the obligor, of a bond dated the 20th given to the
of September, 1774, conditioned to pay 9941. 3s. 5d. attorney at latr
the oppo.
Virginia currency, in equal instalments, at six and of
site party, is
twelve months from the date of the bond.
not such no-

The defendant being an infant, pleaded by Archibald M'Lain, his guardian.

tice as is required by the
act of assembly of Virginia. But
tilae attorney

1. Payient; to which there was a general replicaat law may
tion and issue.
agree to receive, or to

2. That after the execution of the bond, viz. on the wvaive notice,
shell not
day of
1784, at, &c. it was ac- and
aft/rwards be
corded and agreed, between the plaintiff and the said permitted to
James Kirk, (the obligor) in his life-time, that the allege the
of it.
said James Kirk should assign, and make over to the want
If notice be
plaintiff, all the balances of money due to the said ven, that a
James Kirk, and one Josiah Moffett, arising from a position
store kept by them in partnership, in the town of Lees- wilbbe taken
on the 8th of
burgh, in discharge and satisfaction of the said bond ; August, and
and that the said James Kirk did afterwards, on the that if not
day and year last mentioned, at the town aforesaid, taken in one
the
pursuant to the said accord and agreement, assign, and day,
commissionmake over to the plaintiff, all the aforesaid balances, era will adand the plaintiff did then and there receive the said journ from
assignment and transvfer of the said balances, in satis- day to day un.
til it shall be
faction for the said bond, and this he is ready to veri- finished; and
fy, &c.
the commissioners meet

This plea was adjudged bad on general demurrer.

na the Stb

