FEBRUARY, 1806.

219

sioned by the obvious injustice, of allowing to thesame
person a double satisfaction, and of withholding from
the debtor, who bad paid for the note before lie could
indorse it, and who would be compelled, by the judgment, to pay for the goods, on account of which he
had parted with it, the right of resofting to his indorsor. - But, if it was indispensable to ihow, that-Dunlap has, a remedy against Harris, it is supposed, that
the holder of a note may incontestibly sue a remote indorsor in chancery, and compelpayment of it.

H,%sIs

V,,.

The- case of Young & Clarke, decided in this court,
does not apply, because, in that case, the plaintiff below
had not parted with his property in the note.
The court does not think that the order (made after
the judgment was rendered) for the rendition of the
,note to the defendant below, can correct the error
committed in misdirecting thdjury.
The judgment is to be reversed, for error in directing
the jury that the action was &inintainableon the original contract, after the note receivesL as conditional
payment had been indorsed.

DIXON'S EXECUTORS v. RAMSAY'S
'EXECUTORS.

])xo.

Os

EXECUTORS
V.

EXECUTORS.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co- An qxecutor
mai.
lumbi, upon a judgment in favour of the defendants; cannot%
tain a suit -in
upon a general demurrer to their plea, which (after oyer t district of
of the plaintiff's letters testamentary) stated, that the Columbia,
upon lettrs
defendants' testator, at the time of making the promises, testamentary
&c. and from thence, .always, until his death, re- granted in a
sided in the town of Alexandria, in the county of foreign counAlexandria, in the district of Columbia, and that the trYi
defendants have always resided in the same town, and the testator's
that the plaintiffs have not obtained probat of the said personal pro-

SUPREME. COURT U. S.
.Dzxox's
ZXzEGUTORS
V.

letters testamentary, at any place within the district o

Columbia, or the United States of America.

•RA~1sAY's

FxrobTos.
'whether

perty, are
to be regulat-

edbythelaws
ofthe country
where he lived; but suits

for those
rightsmustbe

overned b
e laws of

that country

in which the
tribunal is

placed.

.E.

Yt. Lee, for the plaintiffs in error. The question is,

the plaintiffs must take out letters testamentary
in the district of Columbia, before they can maintain
an action as executors.
There is nothing in the laws of Virginia, which rc.
quires that letters testamentary should be there taken
out upon a foreign will, provided they have been taken
out in the country where the testator lived and died.
The 14th section of the act of Virginia, P. P. 162,
relates only to the title to lands under a will.
If, then, there is nothing required by the laws of
Virginia, the right, and the powers of the executors
depend upon the rules of the civil law, and the law
of that country of which the testator was a subject.
By the law of England, an executor may commence
suit before the probat. 1 Com. Dig. 2 Bac. db. 413.
The very naming of an executor is a disposition to
him, of all the testator's personal estate, for he comes
in loco testqtoris, and is entitled to the surplus, after payment of debts and legacies, 2 Bac. A4b. 423. He derives
all his power, not, like an administrator, from'the govern.
ment of the country, but from the will of his testator.
The debts due to the estate, follow the person of the
creditor, notthat of the debtor, and the disposition of
them is to be governed by the laws of that country of
which the testator was a subject.

2 Bos. and Pul. 229,

230, Bruce v. Bruce. 3 Vez. jun. 200, Benzpde v.
7ohnstone. Aplendix to Cooper's Bankrupt law, 29,
Babille's opinion. Vrattel, b. 2, ch. 3, § 8, 109, 110, 111.
3 Dallas, 370, 377. (note.) 4 T. R. 184, 175, Hunter
v. Potts.
The case of Fenwick v. Sears, ante, vol. 1. p. 259,
was that of an administrator who derives his whole
authority from the laws of the place ; it therefore can.
not decide the present case, which is that of an executor
who derives his whole authority from the will of his

FEBRUARY, 1806.

Dixo'.0a
testator. That case, too, was decided under the pecu.
V.
liar laws of Maryland, which differ from those of Vir- ExcCUToRS
ginia upon this subject. By the law of Mfaryland, R^2'SAY'S'
1798, ch. 101, § 4, no alien can be an executor or qd- ExEcUToS.
ministrator.

But it is said,. that the rights of creditors require
that the executor should give security for the faithful
administration of the estate. But this would be of no
avail, if the executor, after giving security, should
choose to return to England. For, according to the decisibn of the court of appeals of Virginia, in the case of
Baylor's executors, a creditor cannot'maintain an action
against the sureties of an executor, until he has proved
his debt by an action andjudgment against the executor,
and pro'ied a devastavit also, by a suit. But he can
never get a judgment against an executor, whd is not
found in the state; and, consequently, can never have
judgment against the surety. But if an executor be
absent, the creditor may, in chancery, attach the assets. A voluntary payment to an executor, without
letters testamentary, in Virginia, is good. Why, then,
should not the executor be permitted to sue ?

If no purpose of justice is to be answered by refusing the right to sue; and, if it is not refused by the positive laws of Virginia, a strong argument may be
drawn from the inconvenience of obliging an executor
to procure letters testamentary in every state in the
union, and, perhaps, for very trifling debts,
Swann, contra.

The case of I'enwick v. Sears, has

settled the question, as to a foreign administrator. In
what does that differ from the case of a foreign executor? It is said, that the latter derives his authority
from the will, which is an universal title. But the
authority under the will is inchoate, until completed
by the probat, and is limited to very few acts. It is
certain, that an executor, before probat, cannot obtain
a judgment. The ordinary in England, and the court
in Virginia, may refuse an executor, who is under a
disability; for example, an alien enemy; an infant
under seventeen; an ideot, &c. Until, therefore, he is
Vol. Ill.

T t

SUPREME COURT U. S.

received, his capacity to act is not decided by the only

Drkaois
EXECUTORS

RA
RLMSAY's
EXECUTQRS.

competent tribunal.

In England, the ordinary cannot require security,

~ from an executor, 2 Bac. Ab..76, 377 ; it can only be
done by the court of chancery considering him as a
trustee, when there is good ground to apprehe'nd his
wasting the estate. In Virginia, the interest of creditors, legatees and distributees, is attended to. Yet
their interest might be destroyed, if the executor was
permitted to receive money, or give an acquittance
before he had given security.

It is, therefore, ques

tionable, whether an executor, in Virginia, can do any
valid act, until he has qualified himself according to
law.

It is also doubtful whether the assets can be attathed, 3 Wilson, 297 ; for that would invert the order of
administration. If they cannot, a foreign executor
might, byhis attorniy, withdraw all the assets, and leave
the creditors without remedy. A judgment-creditor
here would have a preference. But if he sues in Engt
land upon a judgment of this country, his claim is reduced to i simple contrhct.
Probat in a peculiar jurisdiction, will not support z
suit out of that jurisdiction. It would be strange,
therefore, if a probat, even in the .prerogative. court,
which is the present case; should extend across the Atlantic into a foreign country. 1 Id. Ray. 562, Hilliard
v. Cox.

2 Ld, Ray. 855, 856, ddams v. Savage.

The laws of Virginia have-provided for the probat of
all wills, foreign as well as domestic. P. Ai 162, § 14
and 15.
C. Lee, in reply. By the divil law, the executor
succeeds to all the moyeables, and personal estate, and
credits of his testator, His title is derived from the
will, and his powers are as greatas those of his testator were. 2 BI. Conz. 510.

FEBRUARY, 18o6.

323

Thewill istobe proved where the testator died, and the Dzxo~,'s
property is to be distribufed according to the laws of ExncuTv.s
%.
V
that country.
RAUsAvr'
E.ZCUTOnS.

The whole estate, wherever situated, js to be distributed according to ore law. If a foreign executor
should give bond inVirginia, by 'hich law is he to be
governed? Can there be two executors of the same
will, governed by different laws, as to their administration? Can strangers interfereand get administration?
It is true, the municipal laws may bind property in the
country; but if no such laws, then the property is governed by the laws of the country where the testator
had his domicil. Security ought not to be required
here, if not required in England; and if taken in England, it ought not to be required here. (See Target's
opinion upon the Dutchess of Ki'ngston's will, in collectaneajuridca.)
February 19.
MARtSHALL,

Cb. J. delivered the opinion of the

court.
The question in this case is, whether the executor
of a person who dies in a foreign country, can maintain an action in this, by virtue of letters testamentary,
granted to him in his own country.
It'is contended, that this case d;ffers from that of an
administrator, which was formerly decided in this
court, because an- administrator derives his power
over the estate of his intestate, from the grant of the
administration ; but an executor derives it from the
will of his testator, which has invested him with hi
whole personal estate, wherever it may be.
This distinction- does certainly exist; but the consequences deduced from it, do noi seem to follow.
If an executor derived from the will of his testator, a
power to maintain a suit, and obtain a judgment for a
debt due to his testator, it would seem reasonable that
he should exercise that power, wherever the authority
of tha will was acknowledged; but if he maintains the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
DIXON'S
ZXECUTORS
V.

RAMSAY'S

IXZOUTqORS.

suit by virtue of his-letters testamentary, be can only
sue in courts to which the power of those letters extends. It is not, and cannot be denied, that he sues by
virtue of his letters testamentary; and consequently, in
this particular, he comes within the principle which
was decided by the court, in the case of an administrator.
All rights to personal property ate admitted to be regulated by the laws of the country in which the testatot lived; but the suits for those rights must be governed by the laws of that country in which the tribunal is
placed. No man can sue in the courts of any country,
whatever his rights may be, unless in conformity with
the rules prescribed by the laws of that country.
The court can perceive the inconvenience which may
often result from this principle, but it is an inconvenience for which no remedy is within the reach of this
tribunal.
Judgment affirmed.

Scorr
V€.

SCOTT v. NEGRO LONDON.

NGrxo LoxDON.

If the owner

of a slave removing into
Virginia, shall
take the oath
required by
the actor
assembly,
irnsixty withdays

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Colum.
ba, sitting at Alexandria.
Negro London .brought an action of assault and battery against Scott, to try his right to freedom. His claint
was grounded upon the act of assembly of Virginia, of
the 17th December, 1792, P. P. 186 ; the 2dsection of

after the re- which is in these words: "Slaves which shall hereafter
moval of the be brought into this commonwealth, and kept therein one
owner, it
whole year together, or so long at different times as shall
shall prevent

the slave from amount to one year, shall be free."
gaining his
feedom, althoughghe
was brought

The 3d section imposes a penalty upon every person
importing slaves contrary to the act.

