SUPREME COURT U. S.
WZLSON
to collect some other debt from the defendant, the pay.,M' ments made by him, to them, should be credited on
ExARcuTo.
the notes given to them in trust for Codman', which in.y-%,/ struction the. court very properly refused. to give.
Independent of the proof made by the plaintiff, that
the sums of money received by the Ramsays from
Wilson, were really on their own account, the instruction would not have been proper as this case ac.'
tually stood. There was a running account -between
the Ramsays and.Wilson, Who had large transactions
with each other, and who reciprocally advanced large
sums. This running account is not stated by the defendant, in the proposition for the opinion of the court.
The effect it produces, is to make it proper for Wilson
,to prove, that advances made by him to the Ramsays,
were not designed to satify their particular engagements
with each other; but were intended to discharge the
debt due to Codman. Terms art improperly used in
the bill, which imply a fact contradicted by the testimony. The word payment is used instead of the
word ad'vance, and this at first view, may produce an
obscurity, which is 'dissipated on investigating the
record.
The judgment is to be affirmed with costs.

MAt.LXT

AND

BOW

HALLET AND BOWNE v. JENKS AND
OTHERS.

V.
JENKS AND
OTHERS.

A vessel be-

THIS was a writ of error to 11 The court for the trial

longing
ci- of impeachments and correction of errors, in the state
tizens ofto the
UntedSttese of New-York," under the act of congress, of the 24th

September, 17'89, §25, vol. 1, p. 63, which gives the
1799, driven supreme court of t'he United States, appellate juristby
distress- diction upoia judgment in the highest court of a state,
in the year

port, and ob- in which a decision in the suit could 'be had, where is
liged to land drawn in question, the construction of any clause of a

FEBRUARY, 18os.
statute of the United States,

211

and the decision is

11ALLXT

against the right, privilege or exemption, specially set A"
J
up or claimed by either party, under such statute.

1'.
Bow,"
A

D

OTH1fUS.

The action was upon a policy of insurance, and the
to make
order"ro
-only question to be decided by this court was, whether her
the risk insured was illegal, under the act of congress repairs, and
(commonly called the non-intercourse law) of the 13th prevented by
officers of
J7une, 1798, voL. .4, p. 129. For, although another the
the French

qudstion appears to arise upon the record, viz. whether
a condemnation in a foreign court, as enemy's property, be conclusive
- evidence of that fact, yet this court
is prohibited by the same 25th section of the act of

,,,Mnt
from relading
her
original
cargo,
and
from taking

1789, to consider any other question than that which away an
thing in exbut
change
produce or
.,

xespects the construction of the statute in dispute.

On the trial of the general issue, a special verdict h1ts, might
purchase and
was found, containing the following facts:
take away

That on the 27th day of April, 1799, the defen- suhuprodce,
dants, for a premium of 25 per cent, insured for the ring the pen.

plaintiffs, against all risks, 1,000 dollars, upon twentyfive thousand pounds weight of coffee, valued at 20 cents
per pound, on board the sloop Nancy, from Hispaniola
to St. Thomas. That in the margin of the policy was
inserted a clause in the following words: " warranted
the property of the plaintiffs, all Americans," but that
the. words all Americans, were added after the policy
was subscribedi that the sloop Nancy was built at
Rhode-Island, and belonged to citizens of the United
States, resident in Rhode-Island, as well when she left
that state as at the time of her capture, and, being
chartered by the plaintiffs, sailed from New-Port, in
Rhode-Island, on the 12th day of December, in the
year 1798, on her first voyage to the Havafina; that in
the course of the said voyage, she was compelled, being
i'n distress, to put into Cape-Francois, .in the island of
Hispaniola, a country in the possession of France,
where she arrived on the 5th day of January, 1799;
that the cdptain and pupercargo of the sloop were part
owners of the cargo, and are two of the plaintiffs,in
this suit; that having so put into Cape-Francois, the
cargo was landed to repair the vessel; that the public
officers, acting under the French government there,

alties of the
act of the 13th
June, 179&
Andsuchvoya"
"B
so not
illegal,,m
to avoid the
insuranc.

SUPREME COURT tL S.
H1ALLPT

Bow

j2;ns,

AND

OTHtaS.

'with

took from them nearly all the provisions on board the
,loop, and the aptain and supercargo wer permitted
to sell, and did sell, the remainder to different persons
there ; that the captain and supercargo made a contract
the public officers, by which, they were to be paid
for the provisions in thirty days,, but the payment was
not -made ; that, with the proceeds of the remaining
parts, of the cargo, they purchased the whole of the
cargo which was on board at the time of she capture,
and also seventeen hogsheads of sugar, which they
sent home to New-York ,on freight; that the said
officers forbade the said master and supercargo of the
sloop, from taking-on board the cargo landed from the
said vessel, or from conveying frbm the said island any
specie, by reason whereof, they were compelled to sell
the same, and to take the produce of that country it
payment; that the sloop, with thirty thouganl weight
of coffee on board, twenty-five thousand pounds weight
of which was intended to be insured by. the present
policy, sailed from Cape-Francois, on the 23d day of
February, in the year last aforesaid, on the voyage
mentioned in the policy of insurance, having on board
the usual documents of an American vessel; that the
sloop, in the course of her said voyage, was captured
by a British frigate, and carried into the island of
Tortola, and vessel and cargo- libelled, as well for being the property of the enemies of Great-Britain, as
for being the property of American citizirs, trading
contrary to the laws of"the United States; that, at the
time of the capture of the sloop, besides the docu,
ments aforesaid, the following paper was found on
board: " Liberty, Safe Conduct, Equality-At the
Cape, 1 th Thermidor, sixth year of French Repub.
lic, one and indivisible The.General of division and
private agent of the Executive Directory at St. Doiingo, requests the officers of the French navy and
privateers of the Republic, to let pass freely the
American vessel calied the
master, property of Mr. E. Born Jenks, merchants at
Providence, state of Rhode-Island, in the United
States, arrived from the sait place to the Cape-Frani'ols, for trade and business. The Citizen French
Consul, in the place where the said ve~sel shall be
ttt.d oat, is invited to fill with her name,, and the cap,

FEBRUARY, 1805o..

213

tainas, the blank left on these presents ; in attestation HALLUT
AW' Bovx
of which he will please to set his hand hereupon.
jUNY, A
J. HEDOUVILLE.
(Signed)
oyr-i.
GAUTHIEXR, the General Secretary
(Signed)
of the Agency."
which paper was received on boarid the sloop at Cape.
Francois, and was on board when she left that place;
that the property insured by the policy aforesgid, was
claimed by the said Zebedee Hunt, and was condemned
by a sentence of the said court of Vice-Admiralty,
it the following words: " that the said sloop Nan~y,
and cargo on board, claimed by the said Zebedee
Hunt, as by the proceedings, will show to be enemy's
property, and as such, or otherwise, liable to confiscation, -and condemned the same as good and lawful prize
to the captors." That'the plaintiffs are Americans,
and were owners of the property insured, and that the
same was duly abandoned to the underwriters.
That part of the act of congress, which the underwriters contended had beea violated by the defendants in
error, is as follows :
Sec. 1. Be it enacted, &c. "that no ship or vessel.
-owned, hired or employed, wholly or in part, by an), person iesident within the United States, and which shall
depart therefrom after the first day of July next, shall be
allowed-to proceed, directly, or from any intermediate
port or plae, to any port or place within the territory of
the French republic, or the dependenicies thereof, or to
any place it the West-Indies, or elsewhere, under: the
acknowledged government of France, or shall be employed.in any traf]c or commerce with orfor anyperson resident within thejurisdictionor under the authority of the

French repub&. And if any ship or vessel, in any
voyage thereafter commencing, and before her return
within the United States, shall lie voluntarily carried, or
suffered t6 proceed to. any French port or place as aforesaid, or shall he employed as aforesaid, contrary to the

intent hereof," every such ship or vessel, together with
her cargo, shall be forfeited, and shall accrue," &c.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MALLZT

Sec. 2, enacts, that atter the first of July, 1798, no
for a foreign voyage shall be granted to any
ship or vessel, owned, hired or employed, wholly or in

AND BowxZ clearance
J "A
OTHERS,

part, by any person resident within the United States,
until a bond shall be'given, in a sum equal to the value of
the vessel and cargo," wzth. condition, that the same shall
not,, during her intended voyage, or before her return
within the United States, proceed or be carried, directly
or indirectly, to any port or place within the territory of
the French republic, or the dependencies thereof, or
any place in the West-Indies, or elsewhere, under the
acknowledged government of France, unless by distress
of weather, or want of provisions, br by actualforce or
violence, to be fully proved and manifested before the
acquittance of such bond ; and that such vessel is not,
and shall not,be employed, during her intended voyage,
or before her return, as aforesaid, in any traFfc or commerce with orfor any person residentwithin the territory
of that republic, or in any of the dependencies thereof."
June 13th, 1798. Vol 4, p. 129.
Mason, for the plaintiffs in error. If the insurance
was upon an illegal transaction, the defendants in- error
have no right to recover. The only question for th6 consideration of this court is, whether it be a transaction
prohibited by the act of congress. If the purchase of
this cargo in Cape-Francoiswas lawful, the policy is good.
The first section of the 'act has -two branches, and contemplates two separate offences-ist. That no vbssel
shall be allowed to go to a French port. But tfils prohibition must be subject to the general principle, that the
actof God, or of the public enemy, shall be an excuse.
2d. That if driven into such port by distress, or involuntarily carried in) yet, there shall be no trade or
traffic.
T'he words are, "if any vessel shall be voluntarily carried, or suffered to proceed to any French port' o' place
as aforesaid, o? shall be employeil as aforesaid." The
going in must be voluntary, but the legislature carefully
omit the word voluntarily, when speaking pf the offence
of trading; for all trading must be voluntary ; it cannot

FEBRUARY, 1905.
be by compulsion. The object was to prevent intercourse, HALLZT
and the statute only makes the samp saving of the for- AND Bowxrz
feiture, which a court Wvould have made without such a J V. A
saving clause.
oTusnL.
The condition of the bond mentioned in the 2d section,
confirms this construction of the 1st. It is divided into
two clauses, agreeably to the two offences to be provided
against. The proviso, "unless by distress of weather,"
&c. is annexed only to the offence of going into the port,
but there is no saving or exception as to the offence of
trading.
If she had not been driven in by distriss of weather,
she would have been liable to forfeiture under the first
offence.- -But having been employed in traffic with persons resident, &c. she is equally liable to forfeiture under
the second, and the condition of the bond has been substantially broken.
The special verdict states, "that the captain and supercargo were permitted lo sell, and did sell the residue of
the cargo io different persons there." Here was no compulsion. This selling Was a violation of the law; but it
is not that which avoids this policy. The fault was, that
with the proceeds of those sales, the plaintiffs below purchased the cargo insured. There was no compulsion to
do this, except what I shall presently notice,* as stated in
the verdict.. It will . rolably be contended that te following words of the verdict show a c6mpulsion, viz.
" tfat the said officers forbade the said master and supercargo from'taking on board the cargo landed from the
said vessel, or from conveyihg from the said island any
spede, by reason zhereof, they were compelled to sell
the same, and to take ihe produce of that country in payment." But this is only the reasoning of the jury', and
the words, by reason whereof, show what kind of compulsion it was, and that it was not that inevitable necessity which can excuse the eipress violation of the law.
The owners ought to have said to them, if you forbid us
to take away. our property, we must leave it, and look to
our government for an indemnification ; for they have
forbidden us to sell it to you, or to pirchase a liew cargo.
The forbiddimg. them to relade their goods, and to take

SUPREME COURT U. S.
away specie, was no compulsion to purchase produce.
The verdict does not state that the master.or supercargo
attempted to resist the force; t may be )vholl; a colour.
able transaction.

216
HALLET
AND BowNr
V.

jENKS

ANV
OTuEs.'

The act of the 27th February, 1800, vol. 5,p. 15, shows
what the construction of that of 1798 ought to be. The
3a section of the former provides, that in case the vessel
shall be compelled, by distress Qr superior force, to go into
a Frefich port, and shall there necessarily" unlade and d&,
liver, or shall be deprived of any cargo then on board, the
master may receive payment in bills of exchange, money
,or bullion, and not otherwise, -"add shall not the'reby be
uhdcrstood to contravenethis law."
This Is a clear implication; that lfthere had not been
such an express permission to receive payment in bills of
exchange, money or bullion, it would have been a contravention of the law ; and that law, excepting this provision, is substantially the same as the lw of 1798.
Harper, contra. I miqht safely agree to the first iosition taken by the opposite counsel, that the'lst section
of the act of 1798 create§ two distinct offences. -But this
is not sq. The whole constitutes but one offence.
How' is a ship to be employed in - traffic? ' She muast
bring and carry. If she did not go voluntarily, she was
not employed in trafficking. If the master sell the cargo,
under such circumstances, the ves-sel i§ not employed in.
traffic.
-

But if the act creates two separate offerices, how is thb
vessel employed in the traffic ? She did riot carry the
cargo there voluntarily. But it being there, and landed,
nccessarily landed, how is the vessel concerned in the
sales and purchases made by the master? The necessity
of repairing the vessel is as much an excuse for landing
the cargo, as stress of weather was for going in." The
master was forbidden to relade It. But' a difference if
taken betwcen prohibitionand prevention. It is said that
theforbidding is not preventing. But by whom was tho
prohibition ? by the officers of the government, having
authority and power to carry the prohibition into eact,
It was, therefore, actual prevention.

FEBRUARY, i864.

217

What was the mischief intended to be remedied by the HALET
act of congress ? Not such a sale as this. It was to pre- AMD Bowv.
vent a voluntary intercourse, not to prevent citizens of
rrauns
the United States from rescuing their property from impending loss. 'What is taffic ? A contract by consent of
both parties. If one is under compulsion, it is no -contract, no traffic. The transaction disclosed by.the verdict is only the means of saving property from a total
loss. The owifers were not obliged to abandon, as the
gentleman contends, property thus put in jeopardy. The
master and supercargo were not free agents. They wer*e
not obliged to take bills which they knew would not be
paid. If I could-have had a doubt upon this case, it would
have been. removed by the decisions of the circuit courts
of the United States. In a case before one of your honours, in Baltimore, a vessel had brought home from
the French West-Indies a cargo of the produce
of those islands, after having been compelled to go
in and sell her outward cargo ; and it was decided, that
the case was not within this act of congress. A similar
case is understood to have been decided by another of
your honouts,t in New-York. If those cases were not
'within the law, I arh warranted in saying this is not.
Those decisions produced the 3d section of the act of
1800, which the gentleman has cited, and which was introduced to shut the door that had been left open. It was
perceived, that the law, as it stood before, would give an
opportunity of fraud. The 3d siction.was enacted to take
away the temptation; because, although there might b
cases dear, of fraud, it-was thought best to sacrifice these
particular cases, that fraud might be prevented in others.
T11N section, therefore, has given a sanction to the decisions of the circuit courts.
Key, in reply. It is clear, that therd are two distinct
prohibitions in the act. The two parts of the section are
connected by the disjunctive "or," and not by the copulative,"-and." This is rendered still more evident by the
form of the-condition of the bond described in the 2d section.
Judge vahai tn.

.

t Judge .Pateron, in Septemnbefl, 170, in the tat of MAordtaor

imd othere, cited in 1 Caines' kew-Torl Cates,p. 63.

Vol. i.

Ff

'ZMNALLET.

AVID BOWNZ
vs,
JZNXS

MD

oTrtaas.
.residue.

SUPREME COURT .U. S.

, Whenever you rely on the necessity of the case to jus.
tify your acts, you must not go beyond the necessity. All
"beyond is voluntary. In this case it might go to the landing, and to the seizure of part, but not to the sale'of the
The probability of loss is not necessity. If they
took produce, it was only to avoid a greateilosA. It was
not an inevitable necessity.
Another fact shows that it was trading, not merely
talking on board, to bring home, property which they were
compelled to receive. She was not coming hokne with the
property when she was captured, but going on a trading
voyage. And the French pass states, that she came to
Cape Francois for trade and business.
The intention of the act was to prevent all trading and
intercourse with France or her dependencies.
In the case at Baltimore, before his honour, Judge
Washiiigton, the vessel returned directly home to Baltimore with produce, which sh6 hadbeen compelled to take
or abandon.
mason, on the same side. It is said, 'there must
be a pre-existing intention to go to a French port. If the
sloop had arrived safe at the Havanna, andbeen there sold
to an agent of the French government, it is clear she would
have been liable to f6rfeiture. So, if the French agent,
who signed the passport, had freighted the vessel.
These caqes show, that a pre-existing intention is not,
necessary. The construction contended for would, indeed, open a wide door to fraud, as the gentleman has
contended. It would only be necessary to start a plank
in sight of the port, and then go in to stop the leak, and
the whole law is evaded. 1
March 6.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the court,
to the following effect:

The court is of opinion, according to the best consideration they have been- able to give the subject, that this

FEBRUARY,. 1805.

219

HALLZ
case is -not within the act of congress of 1798, usually
.Z.D BowsZ
called the non-intercourse law.
It is contended by the counsel for the defendant, that
the circumstances, stated in the special verdict, do not
show an absolute necessity for the trading therein described.
Aid it is said, the plaintiff might have abandoned th~e property, and sought redress of his government ; and that it was his duty to do so, rather than violate the laws of his country. But the court is of opinioti,
that the act of congress did not impose such terms upon
a person who was forced by stress of -weather to enter a
French port, and land his cargo, and was prevented by
the public officers'of that port to relade and carry it away.
.Even if an actual and general war had existed between this country and France, and the plaintiff had been
driven into a French port, a part of his cargo seized, and
he had been permitted by the officers of the port to sell
the residue, and purchase anew dargo, ] am of opinion,
that it wodld not have been deemed siich a traffic with
the enemy as would vitiate the policy upon such .ne'
cargo.
The terms of the act of congress seemto imply an intentional offence Pn the part of the owners.
The case put of a French agent going to the Havanna;
and there purchasing the cargo for tJi.e pse of the French
government, ander a pre-concert with the owners, would
certainly be an offence against the law; but when there is
no such intention; when the vessel fias been absolutely
foiced, by stress of weather, to go into a French port,

and land her cargo ; when part has been seized for the uqe
of the government of France, -and the master has beepi
forbidden by the public officers of the Isort to relade the
residue, and to sell it for any thing valuable, except the
produce of the country, the mere taking away such produce cannot be deemed such a traffic as iA contemplated
by the Act of congress.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.*
',See
the opinion of the supreme court of Vew-York, in tis case,
in I Can.' -or& Ca4, 6; and that of the .igh Courtforthe
trial of Impeqchmentj and correctionof Error:, in the atate of 'New rork, delivered by Lansing, Chancellor, in 1 Cainet' 2Ncw;Vor. Cas,
in Error,2. 43.

oT-zns.

