SUPREME COURT U. S.
T'IU It-zT
s rr s

%

sr
Moan.

a value beyond the sum mentioned in the act. But, in
criminal cases, the question is the guilt or innocence of
the accused. And although he may be fined upwards
of 100 dollars, yet that is, in the eye of the law, a
punishment for the offence committed, and not the particular object of the suit.
The writ of error, therefore, is to be dismissed, this
court having no juribdiction of the case.*

FAW

FAW v. ROBERDEAU'S EXECUTOR.

R.BritDEAU'S
Ex ICUTOR

If an act ofliTHIS was an action in the circuit court of the
amitationshave
district of Coluiabia, for the county of Alexandria;
a clause,
;'saving to alland the question arose upon the construction of the
persons non act of assembly of Virginia, for " reducing into onef
mer menca-

the several acts concerning wills," &c. Revised Cjode,

vert, infants, p. 169, c. 92, ยง 56, which is in these words, viz. " If
imprisoned,or any suit shall be brought against any executor, or adout of the
minstrator, for the recovery of a debt due upon tn

mntaofr
rcvr
three years open account, it shall be the duty of the court, before
after their se- whom such suit shall be brought, to cause to be
veral disabi- expunged from such account, every item thereof,which
p
lries removfowvealth,

cd," a credi- shall appear to have been due five years before the
tor, resident death of the testator, or intestate. Saving to all, perof another sons non compos mentis, fenes covert, infants imstate,

re-

moves his dis- prisoned, or out of this commonwealth, who may be
ability by
coming into.
the common-

wealth, even
for temporary

purposes;

plaintiffs in such suits three yea.rs after their several
disabilities removed."
The declaration was for plank, scantling, and foun-

dation-stone,

lent by the plaintiff to the defendant.

provided the
debtor be at
that time
within the
See the case of the United States v. La Vengeance, 3 Dal. 297,
commonwhei-e it seems to be admittetd, that in criminal cases the judgment
.pwealth.
of the inferior court is final.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

For the like materials, sold and delivered, and for
money had and received. The defendant pleaded the
general issue, and a verdict was taken for the plaintiff,
subject to the opinion of the court, upon the following facts:
" That the debt found by the verdict was due by
the defendant's testator, to the plaintiff, in the year
1786. That the testator died in 1794. The plaintiff,
was a resident of, and in the state of Maryland, and
out of the commonwealth of Virginia, when the articles were delivered 'for which the suit was brought,
and when the debt was contracted; and continued so
in Maryland, and out of the said commonwealthuntil
the month of June, 1795, when he removed to Alexandria to live, and hath lived there ever since. That
in the. year 1786, after the cause of action accrued,
the phlintiff passed through the town of Alexandria,
and was for a short time therein, but not as a resident thereof."

Upon this statement of facts, the judgment of the
court below was for the defendant; and th plaintiff
brought the present writ of error.
L._7. Lee, for plaintiff in error. The plaintiff was
not a citizen of Virginia, when the debt was contracted. It does not appear that he did not commence
his action within the limited time* after his becoming
a citizen.
W.ASHINGTON, J. Does it not appear that Faw wgs
in Virgima after the cause of action accrued?

E. 7. Lee. Only as a traveller. It does not appear
that the testator lived in Virginia at that time. The
plaintiff had three years to bring his action, after removal into Virginia. The writ is no part of the record,
unless made so by a bill of exceptions, and it is not
stated when the action was brought.
Swann, contra. The act of limitation begins to run
from the time the plaintiff passed through Alexandria,
after the cause of action had accrued. His disabilityi

F.%w
V.

RC-.s
EXECUTR6

SUPREME COURT U. S.
it V.

(according to the e:pression of the act of assembly)
was then removed, and he ought to have brought his

DIEAU'S

action within three years from that time.

1A-W

EXECUTOR.

S

The plaintiff came to reside in Alexandria, itt 1795.
The suit was tried in 1802; hence the presumption is,
that it was ,.ommenced at that time, and the plaintiff
can- only show the contrary by producing his writ.
The state of the case negatives the idea of a loan.
The claim, therefore, was upon the open account, and
the court had a right-to expunge all the articles charged five years before the death of the testator.
MARSHALL, 'Ch. J. That act has nothing to do with
the lapse of time, after the death of the testator. The
five years, are before his death. The (hree years, are
also three years during the life of the testator, and
the plaintiff must, therefore, have been in the state
three years, during the life of Roberdeau, to make
the limitation attach to his claim.

The court will hear you upon that point, if jou
think this opinion not correct.
Swann said, that no objection occurred to him at
present.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. The court is satisfied with that
opinion, unless you can gainsay it.

WASHINGTON, J. There is another point. Did not
the plaintiff's coming into ihe state in 1786, after the
cause of action accrued, cause the limitation to attach?

Swann. The words of the act are, " saving to pers~ns out of this commonwealth," not persons residing
out of this commonwealth. Being "out of the corn.
mdnwealth," is the disability; coming into- the commonwealth, therefore, is a removal of that disability.
If the saving had been to persons residing out,' &c.
then, possibly, a mere coming in, -without residing,
would not have been a removal of the disability. 3 Wvilson, 145, Strithorat v. Grwme.

FEBRUARY, 180s.

177

E. .Lee, Under the British Stat. of 1 7amm8,
Fw
V.
c. 16, ยง 3, the plaintiff must have been a resident in
Rozz.
England; and he then has six years after his return.
IDC.'S
Here the plaintiff was-not a resident of Virginia at E?,zcuTon,
any time during the life of the testator. 4 T. R. 516,
Perry v. achson.
MaRSiATLL, Ch, J. Beyond sea, and out of the
sfate, are analogous expressions, and are to have the
same construction.
The whole case turns upon the question, whether
the plaintiff's being in the state, in 1786, after the
cause of action had accrued, takes him out of the saving clause.*
E. f. Lee. The casual coming into the state, is not
witiin the meaning of the act. It means the coming in
to reside. The "act for the limitation of actions," &c.
Revised Code, p. 116, ยง 18, speaks of persons residing
beyond seas, or out of the country. If, in such case, the
plaintiff has a factor in this country, the statute runs
against him ; but if no factor, then'it does not.
Suppose the plaintiffs should be foreign partners, and
one-of them should be driven by stress of weather into a
remote part of the state, he may be ignorant of the place of
residence of his debtor. Shall the plaintiffs, in such case,
be barred by the act of limitation .
The case in 2 W. B. 723, turned upon the question of
residence. I can find no positive authority. I believe the
point has neier been expressly decided.
March 2.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. -after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court. There being a general verdict
for the plaintiff, it is necessary, in order to justif ajudgluent for the defendant, that the statement of facts, upon
which he relies, should contain -i the circumstances neSee the case of Duroure v.fones, 4 T. A. 300, whish seems docisive as to that point

Vol. In.

Aa

'SUPREME COURT U. S.
W
ROERDEAU'S
EXPCU'TOR.

cessary to support such a judgment ; otherwise the judg .
ment must be rendered upon the verdict for the plaintiff.
The five years mentioned in the 56ih section of the
act of assembly, must have elapsed before the death of
the testator. If they did not, no lapse of time after his
death can bring the case within the purview of this act.
In the present case, the five years had elapsed. But
there is a saving clause, in the following words: " Saving to all persons non compos mentis, femes covert, infants, imprisoned, or out of this commonwealth, who
may be plaintiffs in such suits, three years after their several disabilities removed."
It is one of the facts stated, that the plaintiff was within the commonwealth of Virginia, in the year 1786, after
the cause of action accrued: and hence it is argued, that
he is not within the saving clause of the section, and that,
to exclude him from the benefit of that clause, it is not
necessary that he should have become a resident of that
state.
"TIhecourt has not been able to find any case in which
this question has beeh decided. We are, therefore, obliged
to form an opinion from a consideration of the act itself.
The words of the act are, "1out of this commonwealth,"
and such persons may bring their actions within three.
years after their "disability" removed. The court is of opinion, that the disability is removed
at, the moment when the person comes into the commonwealth ; and he. must bring his action within three years
from that time.
But something further than this was necesdary to authorise a judgment for the defendant. It ought to have
appeared, that Roberdeau was a resident of the state of
Virginia at the time the plaintiff came into that state in
1786 ; and that fact is not in the case stated. The judgment, therefore, ought to have been for the plaintiff, and
not for the defendant.
Judgment reversed, with costs, and judgment entered
for the plaintiff on the verdict.

