FEBRUARY,' IM.

03L

bffence ;.. a construction of the-act-which the court cannot
think consistent with its spirit or letter.

Scoart
v.

This court is, therefore, bf-opinion; that the crquite.
court erred in directing'die jury that,, under the circumstances stated, the ptiiff below was entitled to his freedom, and doth reverse th&Judgment 'rendered- by tht
circuit cbur ahd remand the cause for further proceedings.
Judgment reversed.

WISE v. WITHERS,
V.

"WZTUU.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Co.
lumbia, in an action of trespass ti et ,armis, for enteriug the plaintiffs house, and taking away his goods.
The defendant-justified ds collector of militia fines. The
plaintiff replied, that at the time when, &c,he was one
of the United States justices.of the peace, for the
tounty of Alexandria. - This replication, upon a gene-ral demurrer, was, by a majority of the court below,
gadjudg d bad; whereuponthe 1laintiff sued out a writ
of. error, and the questiohs 'ade On the argument
were,

Ajustice of
the peace, ia
the district of
Columbia, ia

T officer or
ule
goveniment of the

Unitestate

and is exempt
from militia
due u
martial has
not exclusive

jurisdictionof
that question,

1.. Whether a justice 6f the peace, for the county of and its Zn.
Aleandria, was liable to do militia duty? and
tcnce is no
Trespass Res

2. Whether an action of trespass will lie against the against a cal.
officer who'makes distress, for a fine assesbed unon a lectpr of milil
ta.fines, gzo
justice of thepeace by a courtmartial ?
distraiks fore
fine irzpnos4e4

C. Lee, for the plaintiff in error. This case depends by a ceot
upon the act of congress, of Mdrch 3d, 1803, entitled martial, upon
"1an act, more, effectually to provide for'the organiz;, a peton
tion of the militia of the district of Columbia," vo. 6, lle te
p. 237.

rolled in the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Wisz
v.

The 6th section says, " that the commanding officers
of companies, shall enrol every able bodied white male,
between the ages of eighteen and forty-five years, (excourt martial cept such as are exempt fron military duty, by the laws
"having nou- of the United States) resident within his district."
risdiction in

such cases.

Theact of congress of the 8th of May, 1792, pol.
2-v.p. 93, §2,- exempts from militia duty, " The VicePresident of the" United States ; the o]/icers, judicial
and 'executive, of the gbvernment of the United States ;
the members of both houses of congress, and their respective officei's ; all custom-house officers, with their
clerks ; all post-officers, and -stage-drivers, who are
employed in the care and conveyance of the mail of the
post-office of the United States; all ferrymen, employed at any ferry on the post-road ; all inspectors of
exports ; all pilots ; all mariners actually employed in
the sea-service of any citizen or merchant within
the -United States ; and all persons who now are, or
may hereafter be, exempted by the laws of' the respective states."
This aft aPplies not only to such officers as then exist'edj but to all such as might thereafter be created.
If the plaii~tiff is an officers judicial or executive, of
the govefnment of the United States, he is exempted.
In 23farbury'scase, ante, vol. 1,p. 168, this dourt de.
cided, that a justice of the peace, for the disirict of Co.
lumbia, was an officer, and that he became such as s6on
as the commission was signed, sealed, and ready to be
delivered. If the commission, therefore, is a crite.
rion, to decide who is an officer, we are at a loss toconceive what objection can be taken.
The justices of the peace for the district of Columbia,
are appointed by the president of the United States, by
and with the advice and consent of the senate, and-are
commissioned by the president. Their powers and
duties are prescribed by the act of congress, "concerning the district of Columbia, vol. 5, p. 271, § 11. Whether those power are judicial or executive, or both,
is immaterial.

FEBRUARY, 1806.

yones, contra.
1. A justice of the peace, in the district of Columbia,
is not ajudicialofficer of the government of the United
States.

By the act of congress, thdse appointed for the conn.
ty of Alexandria, are to exercise the same powers
and duties as justices of the peace in Virginia. The expression in the act of 1792, "officers judicial of the
government of the United States," means only the
judges of the supreme andinferior courts of the United
States. Justices of the peace in the states are not-considered asjudicil officers. By the constitution of ltassachusetts,, the judicial officers are to hold their offices
during good behaviour, and yet the commissions of
justices of the peace are limited to seven years. So the
constitution of the United States says, that the judges,
both of the supreme and inferior couris, shall hold
their offices during good behaviour; but by the act of
congress, the justices of the peace in the district of Columbia, are to hold their offices only for five years. These
justices, therefore, are eitherinot judges, or the constitution has, in this reipect, been violated. It is plain,
however, that congress did not consider then. as judges.
A sheriff sometimes acts as a judicial officer in holding
elections ; and some of the officers in the executivo
dep'arfments, exercise judicial functions in many cases,
-but they are not, therefore, judges. An act of con.
gress may give judicial pdwers to certain officers, but
they are not, therefore, judges.
2. He is not an executive officer "of the government
of the United States." This description was intended,
by the act of 1792, to comprehend only the officers of
the superior departments, or those which strictly constitute the government of the United States, in its limited sense.. This is to be inferred, because the act
goes on to enumerate by name, all the inferior officers
ithidh it meant to exempt. Why enumeratq, if the
general-description comprehended the whole?
S. 'The circuit court of the district of Columbia has
The questionswho is

Rot jurisdiction of this question.

Vxsr.
Y.

334

Wisr.
._

SUPREM9 COT.RT" V. S.

to be enrolled in the militia, and the 4sessment of the
fines, are matters submitted exclusively to the couirts
martall which-'are courts of peculiar and'extraordinary

jurisdiction, specially appointed for that purpose, by,
tihe act of congress, vol. 6, p. 244, §8. The words
are, the-" presiding -qfficer shall lay before the said
court (the battalion court of inquiry) all the delinquen.
ciesas directed by law, whereupon, they shall proceed
to hearand determine." There is no provision for revising the decisions of those courts martial,
They are 'final and conclusive, like those of an. ec.
clesiastical court, or a court of admiralty.
If they have jurisdiction, and especially ifthey have
txclusive'and inal jurisdiction in the case, the officer
who executes their orders is justified. He cannot b,e
considered as a trespasser.
C. Lee, in reply. There can be no doubt but the
.plaintiff is an officer. There ctn be as little that he is
ai offic'er judicial or executive, or both;, and if he Is
ilot an officer of the government of the United States,
he is not the officer of any other government. There
is no distinction between an officer of the United States,
and an officer of the government of the United States,
An officer appointed by the presideit of the Uited
States, to an office created by a law of the United
States, and exercising his authority in the name of the
United States, must be as*much an officer of the government of the United states, as any other officer in
the United Stateso

The reason of enumerating other officerg y name,
was, because it might, perhaps, be doubted, whether
they would come under the general description Of of.
ficers judicial and executive.
As to the 'jurisdiction. of the circuit court. A 11mnied
power given to certain tribunals, not extending
to all persons,
cannot controul the general juriidiction
given to that court.

Whenever a peculiar limited jurisdiction is given
to certain persons, and they exceed it, iot only t'heir,

FEBRUARY; 1806.

335

offiders, but they themselves are liable to.an action.
They are all subject to the general law of the land. If
this were not the case, -nd a court martial should cornpel a man of 'more than forty-five years of age, for example, to perform militia duty, and continue to fine
Nim from tiine totime, there would be no redress.
The court martial in the pfesent case, had no juris.
dittion over the perpon of the plaintiff. He was exempt, and, therefore,-they'could, delegate no authority
to their officer.
February 19.
MARSHALL,

Ch. 3. delivered the opinion of the

court.
In this case two points have been made by the
plaintiff in error.
- 1st. That ajustice of the peace, in the district of
Columbia, is, by the laws of the United States, .exempt froqi militia duty.
2d. That an action of trespass lies agaist the officer
who-makes distress, in order to satisfy a fine assessed
upon ajustice of the peace, bya court-martial.
-1. Is a justice of thepeace exempt from militia duty?
The militia law of the district refers to the'generdl
law of the United State, and adopts the enumeration
there made, of persons who have this privilege. That
enumeration commences-with "the 'Vice-President of
the -United States, and the officers judicial and execui
tive of the government of the United States,A

-

It is contended by the plaintiff, nd denied by the
defendant, that a justice of the peace, within the district, is either Ajudicial or an executive officer of th;
government, -in the sense in which those terms arc
ified in he law.

Wist
W-Tu.raL

336
Wisi
V."

•AV ITHtER9.P

SUPREME COURT U. S.

It has been decided in this court, thatA:ijustice. of the
peace.is an officer ; nor can it be conceived, that the
affirmative of this proposition, was it nbw undecidedi
could be -controverted. Under the sanction of a law,
he is. appointed, by the president, by and with the
advice and consdnt of the senate, and receives his
commission from the president. We know not by
what terms an officer.can-be defined, which would not
embrace this description of persons. If he is an officer, he.must be an officer under the government of the
United States. Deriving all his authority from the
legislature and president of the United States, he certainly is not the officer of any other government.
.But it is. contenided, that he is not an officer in the
sense of the militia law; that the meaning of the words
"1judicial and ekecutive officers of the government,"
must be restricted to the officers immediately employed
in the, high judicial and executive departments ; and,
in support of this construction, the particular enume.
raion which follows those words, is relied on; an
enumeration which, it is said, would'have been useless,
had die legislature used the words in the extended
sense contended for by the plaintiff. A distinction has
also been attempted between ah officer bf the United
States, and an pfficer of the governinent of the United
States, confining the latter more especially to those
officers who are considered as belonging to the high
departments ; but, in this distinction, there does not
appear to the court to be a solid difference. They are
terms whicl may be used indifferently to, express the
same .idea.,
If ajusticeof the peace is'an officer of the government

of the United States; he must. be either a judicial or
an executive officer.', In fact,, his. powefs, as defined
by law, seem partly judicial, and partly executive.
Ue is, then, within the letter of the exemption, and of
co, semuti be considered as comprehended within ilts'
propier qonstructign,.unless there be something in the
art which .requires a cgntraryj interpretation. 'The
enumeration which follows this generfil description of
officers, is urged as furnishing the guide which shall
lead us to the more limited construction. But to this

FEBRUARY, 1806.

337

argument, it has very properly, been answered, by the
cognsel for the plaintiff, that the long enumeratioh of
characters exempted from militia duty which follows,
presents ofily one description of persons ; custom,-house
oftic6rs, and those who hold a commission from the President, or are appointed by him; and of these, by far
the greater number do nothold such commission. The
argument, therefore, not being supported by the fact,
is Inapplicable-to the case.

W~lL

The law furnishing no justification for a departure
from the plain and obvious import of the words, the
court must, in conformity with that impbrt, declare
that a justice of the peace, within the district of Columbia, is exempt from the performance of' militia
duty.
It follows, from this opinion, that a court martial has
-nojurisdiction over a justice of the peace, as a militia,
man; he could never be legally enrolled: and it is a
principle, that a decision of such a tribunal, in a case
clearly without its jurisdiction, cannQt protect the offi.
cer who executes it, The court qtd the officer are all
trespassers.
The judgmeit isreversed, and the cause remanded
for furtler proceedings.

THE UNITED STATES v, GRUNDY AND
THORNBURGH.

TnuUztUvTn
STATnL
V.
AND

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States, for
the district of Baltimore, in an action for money had and
-:received for the use of the United States, by the defendants, as assignees of Aquila Brown, jun. a balkrapt ; it
being money received by. the defefidants for the sale of
the ship Anthony lkangin, which ship the United States
alleged was forfeited to them by reason that Brown, in
Xx
Vol. IM.

Tuorui-

nunac.

Under the

t of Con
gross of Dec.
31, 1792,
de- if
Vhil that
dares,'
, f9c oath

