Casns ruled and adjudged in the

LivziGSTON,et al. ver/us SwVAWWJCXc

T

HIS was an affion on the care, to recover the difference
upon a flock contra&, which Samuel Anderfon, as the
broker and agent of the defendant, who refided in Philadelpbia,
had entered into with the plaintiffs, who refided in Ne'w-Tork,
in the following terms :-" I do hereby engage to deliver to
ghn R. Livingjon, Efq. the engagement of .7ohn Swanwick,
• of Philadejphia;to deliver to J. R. Livingjfon, Efq. aforefaid,- one hundred hares of the Bank Stock of the United States,
on the 5 th of 'anuary next enfuing, upon receiving from the
faid 7ohn R. livingfton payment for the fame, at the rate of
twenty-one fhillings and fix pence in the pound
SAMUEL ANDERSON."
(Signed)
New-rTork, 15 th Jul, 1791.
I. On the trial of the caufe, the plaintiffs produced a corref.
pondence between Anderon and the defendant, in relftion to the
contradt, after it was made, and then offered dnderfon himfelf
as a witnefs, to prove that he had received a verbal authority to
make the contra t, for the defendant ; that he had accordingly
executed the inftrument, above fet forth ; and that there had
been a pun~tual compliance with the ftipulations, on' the part
of the plaintiffs.
The defendant objetted, that Anderfon was not a competent
witnefs to prove his own authority ; and that he was interefted
in the queftion, as he had an ation aaually depending for his
commiffions on making the contrat.
But, BY THE CouRT :---The withefs is competent to prove
every part of the tranfaition. He is not interefted in the event
of the fuit; nor can the verdict, in this cafe, be given in evidence, upon the trial of the a~tion for his commiffions. tider.
fon wa's a known, eftablifhed, Broker ; and unlefs he was admitted to give evidence of the infiruffions he received (which were
oral in'this cafe, and are ufually fo, in fimilar cafes) it would
be imprafticable to afcertain the faCts, that are effential to enable
the Court to decide upon the merits of the controverfy.
The witnefs was, thereupon, admitted.
RI. To the aftion and declaration (which contained five
Counts) the following exceptions were taken, in the courfe of
the defence.

CIRCUIT COURT, Pennl3'kania I)fitri&.

3of

tif. That the aifon is brought in the names -f Brockbofl
and ,.,R. Living/ on, whereas the contri& in writing is made
With .7.R. Livin fron only.
-

2d. That the flU/ Count Rates an agreement by Swanwick to
transfer Stock at a certain day : But the evidence is only of an
agreement to deliver an engagement for that purpofe.
3 d. That thefecond andfourth Counts fRate an agreement by
8'anwick, to deliver an engagement to transfer Stock to .7.R.
Livinglon, or order : But the evidence does not prove that lie
engaged to transfer Stock to the plaintiff 'sorder.
4 th That the third Count Rates a contra& being made by
.dnderon, as the authorifed agent of

wanqwiek, that Swanwic

fhould transfer Stock to the plaintiff: But 'the evidence only
fhews a contra& by Anderfon, that there fhould be delivered to
the plaintiff an eng gement of Swan~wick to transfer the Stock.
5 th. That thefifth Count tates the plaintiff's attendance at the
place of transfer; but there is no proof of the facl.
But the exceptions were confidered and Over-ruled, in the
charge to the Jury, of which, in that refpecf, the following is
the fubftance.
BY THF COURT. The obje&ion to the form of the aaion
ought not to prevail. The contra& is proved by the teftimony
of ahnderfon ; and the writtell paper is merely corroboratve. At
the time, then, of forming the contrati, it was perfedly underfRood by the parties tranfaaing the bufinefs, that Brock&, and
Y. R, Livinglon were jointly concerned ; and, if the a&Zion had
not been inftituted in their joint names, it might have been
pleaded in abattmen
Nor is the obje&ion to the variance between the declaration
and the written contrat, on account of the words " or order,"
being fRated in the former, though not-contained in the latter,
material in point of law. It was unnecelary to fet forth the
written contra& at all in the declaration; and it is only now offered as additional evidence to prove the parol bargain between
the parties. In the cafe of a Bond, Bill of Exchange, or Promiffory Note, there would be more weight in the obj,&ion;
becaufe they are, exclufively, the evidence of the refpe&ive
contra&s to which they give exiftence, charaler, and operation ; but the written paper, in the prefent initance, is of no
more force, than any other teftimbny of its contertts would be.
The words in the declaration muff, theefore, be confidered as
furpluiage, and do not affect the material parts of the charge.
As to the other variances betwTeen the contraCt as laid, and
the written contra& produced, the fame principles will apply.
And the non-attendance of the plaintiffs at the place of transfer,

if;

1793.

-

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in tie

o2

r794. is fufficiently excufed by the waiver, which has been proved oil
part of the defendant.
Verdi&, for the Plaintiffs, for 19,40o dollars.
Lewis, Rawle, Randolph &Dallas for the plaintiffs. B. Tilg.man, Ingerfolt, Wilcacks and &erjeantfor the defendant.*

t--.the

April Term, i 794

Prefent WiLsoN and
BRUDMNELL

PETERs,

et a!. verfzts

VAUx

Jifflicei.
et d.

T1HE queftion in this daufe arofe upon the a& of Aftemb f

Tfor

recording Mortgages ( i V7ol. D all. Edit. p. i 12) the
mortgage of the defendants having been recoided after the expiratiorfof fiLunar, but within fix Calendar, months, from the
date: And Tif- CouRT, having compared this, with other
a&s of the Legiflature, were of opinion, that by the word
"dmonths," Calendar months were intendedrLewis E"&Tilghnmn, for the 15laintiff. Ingerfoll, Rawle, "
2-ora.r, for the defendant.
ARImSTRONG ',ej7s CS4RSON'S

Executors,

JUDGMENT having been obtained in the Supreme
of the State of New-,7erey, an a&ion of debt was
brought upon it here; and the defendants pleaded nil debent.
But Bradford contended, that, confiftently with the Federal
Conftitution Art. 4. f- 1 5 and the a& of Congrefs of 26 .May,.
) the plea was inadmiffible. The
Y790 (1 rol. Swfi'a Ed. p. i
in
Conrfitution declares that "full faith and credit fhall be given
each

ACourt

The defendant's counrel tendered a bill of E:ceptions to the admillion of Anderson's teflimony ; and, alfo, to the opinion of the Court
on the pointa flated in he chnrge. A Writ of Error wasiaccordingly
bxoight- but never prof£cuted.

