SUPREME COURT OF

Pennhflvania.

183

lefs he negle&s to pay it on demand. As there is no proof of
demand in this cafe, it muft be calculated only from the comPnencement of the a&ion.
WHITE verfus LYNCH.

HE defendant moved to put off the' trial on an afldavit,

that an attorney of this Court, was a material witnefs.
He had not beenfubponed ; but had promifed the defendant to attend ; and had left town a few days ago.
Under thefe circumftances, THE COURT did not think afiubpxena neceffary to entitle the defendant to put off the trial.
BLOOMFIELD ,velfth BUDDEN.

ICHARD BUDDEN devifes, after payment of debts, a

houfe to his wife for life, remainder to .ames and Sufanna, his children. The widow and children afterwards mortgage this property, to the plaintiff, for the proper debt of Jtames.
The plaintiff fues out af'ierifacias, and, after fale of the houfe,
and fatisfaaion of the mortgage monies, the furplus was brought
into Court, to be difpofed of as the Court thould dire&.
Under thefe circumftances, l2. Levv contended, that this
debt, which Yames owed to the widow, was to be confidered as a lien on the houfe, and that the furplus hould be paid to
her abfohitely. Doug. 133. 2 Bi. Rep. 949. 2 Vef. 622.
Bro'wn. Ch. 42!. Equity favors liens. A faclor has a lien for
his general balance. 4 Burr. 2220.
THE COURT ordered that the money be paid the widow, fle
giving fecutrity, that her executors, oradminiftrators, fhould account for it, after her death, to thofe in remainder. And in cafe
fuch fecurity was not given, Qien that the moneybe paid to thofe
in remainder, they giving fecurity to pay the annual intereft thereof, to the widow during her natural life.*

SCOTT

T

M$miKISSON.

HIS was a fpecial afufmpfit, on the part of the defendant,
to make up the depreciation of a certain furn of money,
paid by him to the plaintiff's agent, if th-f plaintiff refufed to receive
' This latter rul: hal been adopted by the Court of Commnr.
a in the cafe of Whitehall versus "Ho;ton.

1792-

