Surn-LIE CoonIr or

Pennfyl~na
3793-

T

FITZGERALD

veifus

CALDWELL.-

HIS fuit was inifituted by the plaintiff, for the ufe cf

Mfcre & johnfon againi At dew Caldwell, the furviving partner of Andrew and James Caid well. Vance, Caldwdj,
and Vance, had affigned to~fogre & johnfin, a debt. due to them
from Andrew, and fyames Galdwell, and thofe affignees employed the plaintiff as their agent to recover the amount. The defendant, accordingly, gave Fitzgeralda note dated the 8th of
April, 1782, for.CSoo9 5 i, " provided fo much appeared
due to Vance & Co. on a ffttlement of accounts." The matter in difpute was agreed to be refcfred ; and the referees reported " that there was a fum of 64,016 19 4 due, on the
8th of April 1782, from Andre.w and Yames 'aldwell to Robert Vance, furviving partner &c. and further that there was a
funi of 15009 5 i dae from the defendant to the plaintiff, on
a note from Andrew and Yames Caldwell, to the plaintiff, dated the 8th of April, 1782"' Upon this report, judgment
nyi was entered ; and, afterwards, it was agreed, " that the
judgment fo entered fhould be abfolute ; but that it fhould wait
the trial of certain foreign attachments (which had been laid,
before the commencement of this fuit, by fuppofed creditors of
Vance & Co. upon their effects in the hands of the defendant)
and that if any thing fhould be recovered thereon againft Andere
*Ca!dzull, the ame ifhould be defalked out of the faid fum, for
which judgment was rendered, and execution ifflue for the refi
due only." It appeared, that the attachments in queftion had
been laid by the defendant himfelf, in the name of another
perfon, and without 'any authority, but what might be inferred from a general correfpondence ; and, in one inftance, art
iffue being formed and tried, on the plea of nulla bona, the
verdi& was in favor of the garnifhee. On the 9 th of April 1793, the defendant's Counfel (Serjean4
Ingerfill, and McKean) mnoved to ftay further proceedings, upon payment of the principal furm found due by the referees, and
cofts. "he motion was opyofed by Tilghman, 'Wilcocki, aid.
Lewis for the plairltirF; who contended, that under the eircumfrances of thi5 cafe, intereft ought to be allowed.
MKEAN, Chief 7./lice. It is clearly the.general rule that a
garniflee is not liable for intereft, while he is reftrained from tht:
payment of his' debt, by the legal operation of a foreign at-.
tachment. But'it is laid by the plaintiff's Gounfel, -and I affent to the propofition, -thatif there is any fraud, or collufion5
nay, if there is any unreafonable delay occafioned by the condut

2
1793
V

C

A

gsEs ruled and adjudged in the

16

du&1 of the garnifhee himfelf, fuch cafes will form exceptions
to the general rule. In the prefent inftance, however, there is
no proof of fraud, or collufion.; nor of any wilful procraftination on the part of the gainifhee ; and fraud can never be
.prefumed. It 'is true, likewife, that no exprefs authority was
given. for laying the attachmrnts ; but an implied authority appears in the correfpondence that has been produced: And the
defendant is not anfwerable for :the event. Iam, therefore, of
opinion that. intereft ought not to be allowed.
SHiPPEN, Jutice. Evidence *ill often ftrikd6different minds
in a different maine'r. It does not appear to me, that there was
fufficient authority for inffituting the foreign attachment; but,
on the contrary, that it 'Was done officioufly, and at the inftance
of the garnifhee himfelf. I fhould, confequently, think itjuft,
on this occafion, to allow the claim of intereft ; but the majority of the Court will fan6tion a different decifion.
YEAras, yujqice. I concur, generally, in the opinion expreffed by the Chicd"Juftice, that there is not fufficient ground
to except the prefent cafe from the operation of,the general
rule.
BkADFORD, 7u/tice. As I was originally Counfel in this
caufe, I forbear taking any part in the decifion.
By THE COURT :-It is-awarded, that the defendant be difcharged, upon payment of the principal funr recovered, with
colts.*
.anuaryt

A writ of error was brought by the Plaintff; and on the S8th
- Jfluly 1793, the HiGH COURT OF ERRORS AND APPeALS delivere&
the following judgmeat.
.
Br THE CoURT :-Aftar making confideration and due deliberation,
it is confidered by the Cour~t here-if. That the laft judgment or
decretal order of the Supreme Court "That Andrev Galdwell flhall b,
difcharged fronm.the faid judgment on the payment of f4o 6 9s. 4 d

to'wit, the principat fum found due to Vance, Cald6ell Z€ t'ance, by
the fecond report of the referees, and all colts of fuit," be reversed.

2d. That the judgment in the Supreme Court rendered in the Ternr
of Ttnuars" 1791, iii favor of George Fitzgerald,the plaintiff in Errorf
for the furt ofrSoo9 Ss. xd. with the cos of luit, and by agreement
of the parties, qated, in the Record, made abfolute in .anuary Term,
-792,. be, and the fame is hereby, according to'the terms of the Laid
agrerment, affirmed and made .siable.
11e record was thereupon remitted to the Supreme Court.

