Smumn

CouRT or Pennylvana.

179

tem, it muft be owing to fome impediment in law or equity. 1792.
w
I know of no fuch impediment ; they have a right to receive this'- 'Y'
Teftator
the
unlefs
money from the time their title accrued,
had no notice of their title ; or was in pofeffion under a title, or
fuch a title as he was myraken in ; 6r there has been a default or
lache.r in the plaintiffs, in not afferting there title fooner..
Mr. Duche had all the deeds, and he of courfe knew the title of
Mrs. Haldane ; but he might poffibly have apprehended, that the
deief of his wife was good in law to himfelf : I fay, he poffix
bly was under this mj/ake for a time ; but from his letter of the
12th
d ebruary, 1782, it appears, that he then knew his own title to be bad, and that of the plaintiffs to be good. It further
appeared to the Jury, that Mr. Ducbe not only concealedthe title
of the plaintiffs from them, but mffreprefenlted his own. From
this time, he was not a boner fidei pofeor, and was accountable
to the plaintiffs for the rents, whatever might have been the
cafe prior to this time. A man cannot be an hqneft, faithful poffeffor of what belongs to others; nothing but ignorance of the fa&s.
nd circumftances, relating to his own and his adverfary's titles,
can excufe him inforo cotfcientix. This cannot be pretended here.
"Thus it was fummed up to the Jury, on the trial, and they
found for the plaintiffs accordingly, that is, the amount of the
rents. from February, 1782, 'till March 2, 1796, which I think
was right, and agreeable to equity and the truth of the cafe. If I
erred in the charge to the Jury, it was in limiting them to
February,.1781, and not going back to June, 17 79 r thetime ivhert
Mrs. Halane's title accrued. From this circumftance, the de-.
fendants retain the rents and profits of an eftate, for upwards
of two years and an h1f, to which their Teftator had neither a.
legal nor equitable title. The cafes cited for the plaintiffs, particularly, Bacon's Abr. 18. Prec.- in Chanc. 5 17, and 2 Will,
644. fupport this opinion.
The rule to fhew caufe, why a new trial fliould*not be grant-,
Cd, muR be difcharged..

September Term, X792.
SHAw 'erfuS WALLACE.
HIS caufe was fet down for trial; but was afterwardce

jcontinued by the plaintiff. The defendant's attorney,

prayed a rule might be granted for fecurity for cofts, the plain-.
Z2
ta

490o

CAsEs ruled id adjudged in the

.Moy.an, obje&ed, that the motion
came too late, after the caufe had been marked for trial.
But, BY THE COURT :-It is never too late to grant the rule,
when it will not delay the trial.
Rule granted.

1792. tiff refiding in .iew-1ork.
L

LYNH verfius RiSBE'O.

fhould be
award was made that " an order for
A Ngiven
(not mentioning the name)in whofe
on
£5So,

ands, itis faid, that fumwasdepofitedby certain defendants in a
former a~lion, for the ufe of the plaintiff. Ryjberg, the bail of
thofe defendants, undertook in writing, to give an order for the
money, to be received in iNe,-Providence; not mentioning bywhom. This ation was brought for not giving that order, and
one Bunch was ftated in -the declaration, to be the perfon on
whom the order was to be drawn ; andthe plaintiff now offered parol proof to fhew that he was the perfon intended by the
referees. This was objeaed to; and Gilb. For. Rom. and
Bun. 65. were read, to fhew that a blank in a charter-party
could not bafupplied.
" BY Ti CouRT :-The award may be fupplied where it can
'be rendered certain. So was the'cafe of Grierand Grier. 1
Dall Rep. 173. Here are words of reference ; and we think it
may in this cafe alfo be fupplied by parwl proof.
Woon verju' RoAciTP

7-PHIS was a ciiri Facias againft the de& ndant, as gardifhee

JL of twenty-one hogiheads of. flax-feed, the property of
,7ames Elliot. The defence was, that the defendant being a
,captain of a fhip, had received the flax-feed, and figned a bill of
lading, engaging to deliver the flax-Xeed to a confignee in Europe. To prove this Moylan offiered a bill of lading not figned,
but annexed to an affidavit by Roach, fetting forth that it was a
copy of one figned, and delivered- to the confgnee, before the attachment wa laid. The evidence was obje&ed to : And by
M'KEAN, Chief gty/lice r-This is not the beft evidence; and,
therefore, it cannot be admitted..
BRADFORD, ifflice:-The paper olered in evidence is not a
bill of lading ; but it is ofered as a copy, and to prove that a bill
of lading, of the fame tenor and date, was executed., If the
be
in[Iiument itfelf were producedproof of the fignature would
p0raz

