SUPREME COURT OF Pennfy~vznLi.

•
MMIN.ux veifIs Owz r.HIS was an a&ion of covenant on articles of agreement,
dated 22d January, 1779 ; by which the'plaintR fold
to the defendant a plantation ; and the defendant covenanted to
pay Coo immediately, and ,5oo in annual inftalments. The
ffrtt payment was made, and bonds were given for the relidue
of the money.
The queftion now principally agitated, was-whether the
money was to be reduced by the fcale of deprcciation, or to bc
paid in gold and filver ?
The plaintiff offered a witnefs to prove, that, at the time of
the covenant being executed, it was agreed the inftalments thould
be paid in whatever money was current, at the time they became
due.
Ingeifil, on the part of defendant, objected to this teftimo-.
ny. The value of money in contra&s between 1776, and 1781,
is afcertained by the at of Affembly (i Vol. Dall. EdtP.
) No parol proof is to be admitted to contradict this :
It has always been repelled. -It was fo in Lee v. Biddis. I DalL.
Rep. ;75. The bonds -which are explanatory of the contrat re given -to be paid in " lawful money of Pemnlvrauia." The evidence offered is to vary the agreement. Where
the parties reduce the agreement to -writing, that alone is the
rule. 2 B!. Rep. 1249. - Even converfation of the parties at
the time of the contra6 is not admitted, unlefs there is fraud.
Brown. Ch. 93" 4. Powell. 43o. Ambiguous expreffions are
.wt to be explained by parol proof: So was the cafe-of B-enezat
and M4Cenachan where proof being offered to fhew that by the
term " fpecie," ufed in a policy of infurance, certain paper bills
were intended by the underwriters, it was reftfed.
Sergeant, Lewis and Levy, for the plaintiff, vurgea, -that the
kind of money was not fpecified, and that this was an ambiguity,
like that of a devife of a man to his fon 7John I when lie hals
two fons of that name. Here were two kinds of money in circulation, paper and fpecie; and the parties do not difflinguifhi
in
irgerscli.-Twoprinciplesvfere determined inli-Cienachan". Scott.
j. That a nominal plaintiff is not for thatreafon alone to be rejected.
z. That a plaintiff is not in all cafes liable to pay colts. i Barnes 71.
Ae4. A ProchienAni is compellable to pay coils ; but ifthe plaintiff i;
not-admissible, neither can a mere trutee be received.
iHE '

URT inclined -to reject the 7titnefs, butJustdce SnrPPrt,

doubting, they agreed to admit him if the plaintiffs infifled, referving
the point. He was admitted.accordingly, but the verdict-being for
-the defendant, no mot8i was made.
Seex P. in. 290. 2 A.t. ZZ9 . 3 4th. 95 604. 2 fez. 219 .
-". 134. 2 Wir. 3-,.

179z-

CAsEs ruled and tdjudgd in the
1 792. in the articles which they mean. The auditors appointed under
the a& have this power ; and fhall not the Court have it alfo
The principle of Lee and Biddis was, that the Court were bound
by the words "i ' current lawful money" and the pofitive words
of the a&i of Affernbly. The proof is neceffary to effe& the
intention of the parties, and to prevent an undue and fraudulent
proves, that, on prinadvantage. 'The cafe in Davis. Rep.
ciple, this money ought to be paid in fuch coin as is current at
the time it is payable; and the a& of Affembly ought to be confirued in confiftency with this principle.
SHIPPrN, Jilice :.-In Graf verfus Whitmer, it was determined in this Court, that fuch proof might be made ; and even
after judgment by efault, in debt on bond, the caufe was fent
to auditors to afcertain the value or kind of money. I cannot
in confequence fay fuch proof ought to be reje&ed;. and this
very point has been fettled in that of THufl ve~fus Kirkbride.
BY THE COURT :-Let the evidence be heard, and the point
referved for the defendant, if he fhall think it proper to move
for a new trial.
The verdi& being for plaintiff, a motion for a new trial was
accordingly made, and argued by Ingerfoll, at the fame time with
the cafe of Fieldand Biddle: (Ant. p. 17r) But the counfel for
the plainitiff fubmitted the point without argument. And
1r "THE Counr :--The rule muft be difchairged.
HENDERSON

serfus

CLARXSOVi

ASE-for money had and received. Plea, non qlnpfit.
The aaion was brought to recover a fum of money, which
e plaintiff claimed as agent for forty-three feamen, to whom
it had been decreed in the Court of Admiralty, as their fhare of
certain prizes taken by the privateer .- olker. A writ had been
iffued from the Court of Admiralty, direcled to the defendant,
then the Marfhal of that Court, commanding him to deliver
the money to the plaintiff. The defendant made return, that the
property in his hands confifis of certain articles fpecified, which
he has ready, &c. Afterwards the articles were fold.
The defendafit's eounfel moved for a non-fifit, on two grounds.
ift. That the aiaion was not maintainable, in the name of the
agent. 2d. That it is not of Common Law cognizance, b.eing
a queffion of prize, and to enforce the decree of the Admiralty.
They contended that his appointment under the a&a of Affemhily, .did not give him any power to fue in his own name : The
very term agent implies that'he has a mere authority. The aa
is filent on the fubje6 of fuits, and leaves him to the operation

