COMMON PLEAS

of Philadelphia.

1iay Sittings, 17 8 8.

BoNoD .verfu

PELosI.

LOYER, an Infolvent Debtor, after his infolvency, depofited with the plaintiff an Atlas, to be fold, and the defendant
purchafed it at Boinod's flore. Difcovering that the Atlas had
belonged to Loyer, the defendant, who was one of his creditors,
refufed to pay for it to the plaintiff, infifting that he had a right
to et-off his debt againft ie price. The plaintiff thereupon
fummoned him before a Juffice of the Peace; and, the Jufticr
refuing to admit the Let-off; the defendant appealed from that
decifion.
On the trial c-7 the appeal, Heatly contended, for the defendant, that the fet-off bught to have been allowed under the infolvent law. i Vo. Dal. .Edit.p. 164. But even if the Juftice
was right in his refufal, he faid the alion could not be maintained in Boinod's name, as the affignees were alone entitled to
fue for the effe&s of the infolvent, after his affignment.
Dt Ponceau, for the plaintiff, obferved, that there was no Letoff at common law ; and that it had not been authorifed by anr
legiflative provifion in the cafe of a fa&or ; which was the fituation of his client. Cowvp. 255. As the affignecs are not contending parties, it is unnecefTry to fhew that Boi.iod had a
lien. Ibid..
In the charge to the jury, SHiPPEN, Preftldet, flated, that

this was an a6tion for goods fold and delivered ; that the plaintiff
had an indifputable right to bring the aftion, either in his own
name, or in the name of his principal ; and that lie had, properly chofen the former, as the contra& was made with him.
That, in anfiver to the defendant's allegation, of the property's
helonging to Layer, it was to be remarked, that after theaflign.
F 2
menic

44
"

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

r788. ment, the property was for the benefit of all Loyer's creditors;
and that, although his fa&or might have a lien, the vendee of
the fa&or certainly had none. That, in ftri&nefs, perhaps, the
aflignees of Loyer had the right to the
Jtlas, or the price for
which it fold ; but that certainly, at the time of the fale, it
was nor the property of Loyer, and, if not velted in the aflignees,
it. muft have belonged to Boinod by virtue of fome fpecial lien :
And that, upon the whole, the plaintiff was entitled to recover,
though he was anfwerable over to the aflignees.
Verdi& for the Plaintiff.

Aug uf Sittings, 1790.

BOWEN verfluX DOUGLASS.

HE Plaintiff had taken out a fubpwena, returnable to Drcember term laft, for two witneffes, who lived in Montgomery County; but as they did not then appear, an attachment,
dire&ed to the Sheriff of' Montgomery County, was iffued, returnable to the fucceeding March term ; when, likewife, default
was made in the appearance of the witneffes ; and the caufe
was continued on a rule for 'trial at the next term or Non Pros.
Anotherfubpoena had been taken out, returnable this day, on
which the caufle was marked for trial ; but it proved as ineffec'.
tual as the preceding writs.
Under thefe circumftances, Levy, for the Plaintiff, moved to
p6ftpone the trial. He ftated (and it was not denied by the oppofite-counfel). that an application-on his part to take the depofitions of the witneffes had been refufed: And he read a letter
from the Sheriff of Montgomery, to fhew that an attempt had
been made to ferve the attachment upon the witneffes ; a certificate from the do&ors to prove that one of the witneffes was
fick 5 and a certificate from difinterefted and credible perfons
to prove that the othe witnefs was out of the way. x. Dall.
Rep. 25 1. chlojfer v. Lehel-.
McKean, for the Defendant, obje&ed to the poftpqnement;
and infifted, that the rule for triaI or Non. Proa, ought to be enfoiced

