CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the
1785
WYCOFJ verfus. LONGHEAD. "

"

HIS was an a ion on a promiffory note

to which the
dcfendani pleaded the aS of Affembly againit ufury ; and
thereupon the following points were ruled by the Court, in
their charge to the Jury.
i ft. That where more than leg. I intereft was included in any
note, bond, or fpecialty, the whoie amount could- not be fued
for and recovred : But the plaintiff was entitled, in fitch cafq,
to -i verdi& for the juft principal and lawful intereft.
2d. That if a man, diretly, or- indirectly, aCually receives
more than fix per cent, he incurs a forfeiture eqial to the money &c. lent; bit if an afion is brought to recover the amount
of the loan, a verdi& ought not to be given for the defendant,
as'that would, in effec, be putting the money into his pocket,
inflead of working a forfeiture to the Commonvealth.
3 d. That a man may, bona fide, purfhafe any fecurity for the
payment of money, at the loweft rate he can, without incurring the penalties of ufury.
RESPUBLICA verfu S'RIELE."

AI-HE' defendant being out-lawed for robbery; and afterward
J.1 "apprehended, was brought up forjudgment ; but, denying
that be was the fameRobert Steelewhowas mentioned in the outlawry, un iffue was joined by the Attoriey General to try the identity.
ws, as counfel for the'prifoner, took two exceptions on the
trial : ift. That it was not proved, that the defendant was an
inhabitant of W}righi's own, as ftated in the procefs' of out]awry ;, for though it appeared that he worked there, he contended
that circumfiance alone did not eftablifh a refidencc. 2d. That
the addition is falfe and defctive ; for, he is called cc'eoman;'
whkh means (contrary to the fact) that he is a free-holder of
the value of 40 fhbillings per annum ; and the addition' doei not
extend-to the toin or hamlet, the name, degree, or miftery,
. ,Com. 4o6. 2 vyl.
"without which the outlawry, is void. I
66,8. "vfioYn': Diionary, word " Yeoman." 2 Hawk. 185.
fl 102. ib..i86,f io6. ib. 187. 8.
* Bradford, Attorney General, infifted, that the proof of refidenue was fufficiently made; anid that, by the flatute, the defSfcription

.41Tis ca'ufe -ias tried on the ±6th September, 1785 ,

. rgued and decided the iatb October, 1785.

