SWR~ES CQURT OF~ Po4*XU.
If, therefore, the caufe was. put off at 79o;
this time, be hoped at leaft, a pdremptory rule for trial at the
next term would be entcred.
BY TUE CouRT :-t would wear an afpe& of hardfhip, if
the trial were to be forced on, at the very time that the plaintiff
had engaged the defendant in his firvice, and fent him to a
diftance. But let a peremptory rule for trial at the next term
be entered.

be pleafe3, attend.

RESFULICA Verfus COATES,

T

I S was an alion' on an official bond executed by the
defendant; and the real plaintiff, having regleaed to
rike a jury, the defendant's cotnfel moved for a rule for trial
by provifo; but on a fuggetion from the Attorney General,
approved

larly flipulated.t ' Si res vi pads reffituendm, reflituevdi quoque
And Grotius
1224.
funt rr .&us a cie cxic.sn s; fa's Woh
Icui pace res couceditir, ei et frutus '-oacedunwr a tmpore concessionis, NON RET-O. L. 3" C. 20. S 22. To place the right
to inteteft on money on a level with the right to profits on land,
is placing it more advantageoufly than has been hit-orto authorized; and if, as w ha,e fern, a flipulation to reffi, e lands does not
include a ilipulation ta reflore the back profits, we ma. certainly
conclude a fortiori, that the reftitution of debts does notinclade an
allowance at bach interest on them.
Tbere reafons, and oheri like thefe, have probably operated on the
different courts toproduce decifions, thai ' no interelt (hould run during the time this general and national calamity lalted.' And they feem
fufficlent, at leafR, to 'cfeuc their decifions from that flapranf denial of
right, which can alone auchorize one nation to conir forward with
complaints againft the judiciary proceedings of another.
S. SS. The fRates have been uniform in theallowance of interefl be.
fore and fince the war but not of that claimed during the war. Thus
we kno e by the cafe of Nrate's executors v. Sands in New York
and Middred v. Dorfey in Mar)land, tLat in thofe Rfates, intereft
during the war is difalowed-by the courts. By the act relating
to debts due to perfons who haje been and remained within the eneniy's power, or lines dui ing the latewar (palled May, 1784.) that
to determine the matter
h
Conne~ticut left it to their court of hancery
according to the rules of equity, or to leave it to referees.
By the cafe of Osborne %. Mifftin's executors, and Hare v. Allen, explained in the letter of Mr. Rawle, attorney of the United
States
f If tbingA are to be restoredly virtueof the peace, the profits tre afro
to be restored from the day of the ceffi -n.
o vihoinsoever a thing is conceded by the peace, to him also the

troflts are concedid,.from the. time of the conceflion,

BUT NOT BACK.

M16

CAsE ruledt and adjudged in the

179 o . approved by the Court, that fuch a rule could not be grantee

the commonwealth, the motion was made fom a peremptory rule to try at the next term; under which the Court faidi
they Would order the jury to be qualified.
Levy for the plaintiff ; Serjeant for the defendant.

Sagainft

BORGER efus SEARLE.

(

N a Caan returnable to the prefent term, Lewis this day,
moved for a rule to fhew the plaintiff's caufe of action,
and why the defendant fhould not be difcharged 'on common
bail; offering, at the fame time, to 'file an -agreement, that
the queftion might be heard before a fingle judge at his chambers.
Bradford objeted, that this being the laft day Qf the term,
the motion was out of feafon. He did not difpute the power
of the Court ; but 'he appealed to their difcre.ion, whether it
would not be unreafonable to fufpend the caufe ibr three months,
by granting the rile at fo late a period.
'BY THE CouRr :-The motion is certainly out of time. Before the return of the Oapias, a queftion of bail may be brought.
before,
States ; and .by the letter of Mr. Lewis, Judge of the diftri&
court of the Unifed States, that in Penafylvania the. rule is,.

that where neither the creditor- nor any agent, was within the

Rate, no intereft was allowed ; where elther. remained, they gave ixntereft. In al the 6ther fates I believe it is left difcretionary in thecourts and juries. In Maffachnfets, the pra&ice has varied. In November, 1784, they inftruft their delegates in Congrefs to alk the
determination of Congrefs,whether they underflood the word ' debts'
in the treaty asincluding intereft ? Andwhether it is their. opinion,
that 'terefr during the war Thoald be paid ? And 'at the fame time
they pars the ad dire&iug the courts to fufpend rendering,
judgment for any intereft that might have accrued between April 19,.
1775, and Jauuary 20, 1783. But in 1787, wherttbere was a general compliance enaed through all the United States, in order to fee
if that would produce a counter-compliance, their legiflature paffed the
a& repealing all laws repugnant to the treaty, and their courts,
on their part, changed their rule relative to intereft during the
war, which they have uniformly allowed fince that time. The circuit
court of the Uhited States, at their feffions at
in-. 179 o, determined in like manner that iritereff (hould be allowed during the-war. " So that on thewhole we fee that, in one fate, intereft during
,the war is given in every cafe, in another it is givea wherever the

creditor, or any agent for him, remained in the country,* fo as to be.
aeceflible ; and iri the others, it is left to the courts and juries to
decide, according to their di.fcretion and the circumfianecs of the cafe.

