SUPREME COURT 0F Pennfylvanid;

217

794.

January Term, 1794.'

VANCE, furviving partner, veifils FAIR.9;

N the trial of this caufe, the plaintiff; whO was firviVlrfg
partner of a Commercial Houfe eflablifhed in Dqminica,
0
offired, in evidence, a'copy of entries in original books of the
Company, fworn to be truly tranfcribed. The witnefspremifed, however, that the dates would, by no means, afcertain the
exa& period at which the tranfafions arofe between the partiesi
as the entries were not made in the Wafte-Book for months afterwards. The defendant's Counfel, thereupon. objeaed to the'
admiffion of the evidence.
The Counfel for the plaintiff ftated, that their client had, irl
fa&t, been engaged, during the late war, in art illicit trade with
A merica, and that the defendant was their agent ; that, there;'ore, it had been neceffary to give a color to their tranfaftions,
and that they had not dared to make many of the entries at the
time the facts occurred . But, it was contended ; that isihe declaration of the witnefs did not go to all the items; 'as he does
not fpecify any that are exceptionable, and a's fome are unqiieftlionably proper to be laid before the Jury, the obietion to the
evidence can only apply to its credibility, and not to ius corn.
petency.
By 'iri COUR-r ;--It does not even -ppeat, that the.Clerk,
'who made the entries, 'was in the fervice 'of the plaintiff at di
time the tranfacions took place; nor does any witnefs fubftari
tiate the tranfaftions themfelves upon oath. We are always
inclined to be liberal irnthe admiffion of evidence upon cdmthe copies of
mercial controverfies ; [but to eftablifh a book, or
entries in' a book, kept tinder fich circumiftances, would be giv
ing too great a latitude for deception; and, if drawn into precedent. might prove aperniciousinnovation upon the rules of law,
The evidence cannot, therefore, be receWed,
WARD

erfut HAL4A.

r'-IE plaintiff was 'a 'eidzen ol, and felrdint in, guth-Caro- lina, and the defendant was a citizen of, and refic'ent in$j
prefcnt aaionffouuded uporl.
rtnnv'h'ania. for fix years before
F' the

