CICUIT CoURT, Pemi t
yvanla Diffria.
-would only be granted, upon the defendant's bringing the moo- 1797.
ney into Court, or giving fecurity to pay the balance.
But it was anfwered by Rawle and'Thomax, that the amount
due muff he afcertained, before any ufe could be made of the
agreement tor enter judgment. It was the exprefs ftipulation ot
the parties; and as the judgment has been improperly entered"
;t common law, it is on the fame fide of the Court that relief
fhould be fought. The Courts in England and in Pennfylvania
are in the conftant praffice of flaying the proceedings on executions, which are'ifflued either for more than is due, or before
the day of payment. See i Bac. .br. r95.
BY THE COURT. The agreement is to enter judgment fir
what nay be due. The plaintiff has no right to decide the quef-.
tion. It is evident, from the terms of the agreement, that there
was fomething to fettle; and the plaintfiT, either by arbitration,
or by a Jury, fhould have proceeded to make the fettlement,
with notice to the defendant, before he entered the Judgment
or, at leaft before he iffued the execution.
The rule made abfolute.
MAXWELL's Leflee verfus LEvy.

JECTMENT. On a rule to fhew caufe, why this eje l.ment, and many other cafes depending on the fame principle, flhould not be fRruck off the record, upon a fuggeflion that
the Court had-no jurifdiftion, it-appeared, that the leffor of the.
plaintiff was a citizen of Maryland, refident there, and that the
defendant was a citizen of Pennylvania, refident here. But as
foon as the ejetment was inflituted, a bill for "difcovery was
filed againft the leffor of the plaintiff, on the equity fide of the
Court, in which it was- alledged, "that the conveyance of the
premifes in controverry to the leffor of the plaintiff was made
by Morris, a citizen of .Pehfylvania, for no other purpofe than
to give juriffdiffion to the Circuit Court ;" -and the anfwver to the
bill admitted; "cthat the leffor of the plaintiff had given no confideration for the conveyance; that his name had been ufed by
way only of accommodation to Morris"; but it was not directly
faid, that it was for the purpofe of creating a jurifdiftion in the
Federal Court.
After argument by AL1.Levy, for the plaintiff, and by 7"
Tilghman, for the defcrdant, IREDELL,
Otffice, delivered
opinion of the Court, in which'the conveyance to the leff
the plaintiff was confidered as entirely colorable and collufive
and, therefore, incapible of laying a foundation for the jurirdifion of the Couxt;
The rule made abfolute...
AioNYamous

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the
X797,
ANONYMOUS.

N a caufe marked for trial by Special Jury, nind Jurprs only
appeared; and the queftion arcfe, whether the Court (who
wilhed to confider it with a view to eflablifli a precedent) could
award a tales, on the application of the Plaintiff.
Levy and Ingerfoll fuggefted, that the Supreme Court of Pennfyivania had fo conftrued the I2thfi,. of the A& of Affembly
(z 7ol. DalL Edit. p. 265) as to exercife the power of ordering
a tales in the -cafe of fpecial, as- well as of common, 'Juries,.
whenever the Plaintiff required it; and, alfo, whenever the
Defendant required it, if he had a rule for trial by provifo.
The 'fame power is exeicifed in England on general principles.
476.
&"/ Pr.
Lewis obferved, that the Supreme Court held, that the Pennfj~'pania A&,and not the Engly/h pra&ice, muft regulate the
proceedings with refpet to juries; and the cafe of a tales in
trials by fpecial Jury, though 'admiffible at common la-w, might
not have been adopted by the Legiflature, on account of the inc6iveniences, which the -praCtice tended to introduce. But
whatever may have- been the previous law, the Legiflative rule
exclufto ulterius.
muft be purfued j and bxpreo unius efl
Rawle conceived, that the 12tb fe&ion of the Judicial A& (I
Vo. Swife's Edit. p.. 6 7 )Yfettled the queftioi. In the firft part
of the fe&ion, the'provifion for impannelling Juries is general,
obvioufly including ,both fpecial and comnion Juries; and, as
there is the fame generality of expreffion in the latter part of
the tfe&ion, when provifion is made for returning a tales, it
ought alfo, by a parity of conftrufion, to be extended to loth
cafes.
rire. "1have 'no doubt of the power of the
PFTERS
Court, to brder a tales in fpecial Jury caufes. IItmight have
been done, I think, iinder the A& of Affembly ;. but unquef-.
tionably it may be done tinder the A&t of Congrefs. There
ought, however, ,to be fuch a difcretion in ufing it, as to prevent any injury to either party ; and, theref6re, a.trial flhould
not be forced on, -,ith~u a reafonable delay to bring in the
jurors that had been regularly feleaed.
The A61 of Congrefs feems to remove
IREDELL,. J*1 ftice.
every difficulty. It makes no difindion (and the Court can,
therefore, make none) between the cafe of a fpecial anad of a common Jury. If this provifion had not exiffed, the fubje& would
have occafioned much doubt in my mind-.
-1 mX;

