Supin~n Cout oFFeniyvania.

-Si

Tie note with which the Reporter has been.favord does not
fpecify, whether the teftimony was' adthitted or rejeatd ; but
there was a verdi6t in favor of Yofeph Stqckhouje, for the whole
of hWis claim.
MAsTaRs Leffee verfu SHUT-.

HE office copy of a furvey, certified by Robert LongLbore,
as deputy furveyor-general, without feal (no feal being eftablifhed by law for the furveyor-general's office) was given in
evidence :the original not in office.
TAXlER, et. at. veifus SWE.ET, et. al.

T

HE plaintiff'brought an aEion of Trover, againifE the de-

fendants, for a veffel and cargo, returnable to the CommonPleas of June term, 1769.' The declaration recited, that'the
plaintiffs were poffefled of the veffel and cargo, to wit, at Philadelpbia County, the 3ift of March, 1762 ; that they cafually
loft them ; that the faid 3Ifl of March, they came to the poffeffion of the defendants by finding ; and that neverthelefs the
defendants, knowing the goods to belong to the plaintiffs, did not
deliver them, &c. but afterwards, on the fame day and year,
converted them to their own ufe, at Philadelphia.County, &c.
The artion being removed into this Court, was referred at
April term, 1771, and the referrees reported £2,9oo to be due
to the plaintiffs, fubje& to, the opinion of the Court, on the point
of law arifing from the following fa6ts.
The defendants, Samuel Sweet, commander of a privateer,
Albraham WIrt~ipple, Iames Potter, and William Davis, commanders of veffels with Letters of Marque, did forcibly take on
the highfeas near Monte Chrii, in the Ifland of Hifpaniola, in
the Weji-Indies, (where the vefll was lying at anchor) the fip
called the Maria Francina,with her cargo, being the property
of the plaintiffs, and carried her with her cargo into Rhode4fland; at which place fhe and her cargo were condemned as
prize and fold, as -appeared by the proceedings of the Court of
Vice Admiralty there. - But on an appeal to the Court of Lord
Commiffioners of appeals, they, by their final decree, reverfed
the fentene of condemnation,, as appeared by a certificate of
the proceedings of that tribunal. The queftion to be decided, on the preceding ftate of the cafe,
a-whethir an aaion at common law lies for the plaintiffs
as
L

1766.

