SrPTL."

CotnT Or Pen.IYfytiq.24
1796.

RUSTON'S Executors .oers RuSTOX-

IN

this aCtion a verdi& 'had been taken for the Plaintiffs,'
for [2096 i3f4, fubje& to the opinion of the Court, on a
point referved, to be argued upon a motion for a new trial.
The cafe was this :-7ob Ru/lon made his laft Will and Teftament, dated the : 7 th of Ja'nuary 1784, and thereby firft, "f-ter-hisju/ and lawful debts andfuneral chargespaid, he bequeathed
L5oo. and rome fpecific goods and chattels, to his wife. He
next devifed all his real eftate to his eldeft fon Thomas in fee,
provided he payed to his executors [30o0, by annual inftallments, during feven years and a half; and dire&ed, in cafe ot
his fon's failing to make thefe payments, within three months
after the times limited for them refpe&ively, that his executor
Thall fell and convey particular parts of' his real eftate; but he
made no provifion for the fale of the refidue, confiffing of a
Meffuage, Mill, and Tra& of 3 25 acres of Land. He then gave
to each of his children legacies in money, and alfo fome fpecific
legacies, which were to be in full of their refpedive/hares of his
t/ate : He bequeathed [ioo to a charitable ufe, to be taken out
of the remainder of his eftate, before any fhare or dividen&
thall be made to his fons and daughters : And, laftly, he willed
and bequeated the remainder of his eftate iohis five children, tq
be divided into ten parts, of which one part is given to his faid
eldeft fon TImas Ruflon, anether to his daughter Sarah, and the
remaining eight parts are given to the three younger children,
in equal proportions." Part of the teftator's real eftate, devi-

led to his fon T.'bomas Rufflon, was fubje& to a mortgage given
to 'the managers of the Pennfylvania Hofpital. Thomas Ruflon,
the devifee, had paid no part of the £3000; the lands which
the Executors were empowered to fell had, confequently, been
fold; but after applying the proceeds of the fale, ome of the
debts, and all the pecuniary legacies, remained unpaid. For the
di~ference between the proceeds of the fale, and the £3000, the
prefent affion was brought.
The cafe was argued in Septetnberterm laft, by Ingerfoll and
M11'Kean, for the plaintiffs, and by B. Tilgbman and Heatly, for
the defendant: And two queftions were made. ift. Whether
the whole of the real eftate devifed to the defendant Thmnas Refton, was liable for the payment of the 43000, for fatisfying the
teftator's debts and legacies ? 2d. Whether the defendant was
bot id to difcharge the mortgage. on a part of the lands devifed
to him, out of his own funds ; or the Executors were bound to
Jifcharge it out of the teftator's perfonal eftate ?
On thefrf queftion the plaintjis counfel cited 2 Vent.357.
R-h2

244

tASES

ruled and adjudged in the

1796. 1 Eq. Ibr. r99.pl;io 2 Vern. 26. Bendl. Rep. 28r. Dy. 34gi Atk. 382. 3 Bro. Ca. in Ch. i6S: And on the fecond queffion
they cited, i Ch. Ca. 271.
P. Wins. 730, 1. 1 Eq. -br. 142.
_.1 7- Ibid. 143 p2. I . 3 W/oodes' 485.
The counfel for the defendant cited, 2 B1.Com. r19. 111. 1
tk. 3 82. Shep. E 1z. Lov. on Wills 54- i Cha. Ca. 27r.
On the 2d of April i786, the Chief Juffice delivered the
following opinion:
M'KEAN, Chief 7iufiece. In the cafe of an inteftacy, the rule
of law is clcar, that fimple contra& debts, bonds, mortgages,
and fpecialties of every 'fort, irnft be paid by t'e adminiftrators
out of the perfonal eftate, this being the natural fund for debts,
tho' the younger children flould be thereby left deftitute:' But
where there is d will, the teftator can fubftitute other funds in
the place of the perfonal eftate; What has .7ob Ruflon willed
in this particular, is the queftion.
The intention of the tettator fhall govern the conftru&ion of
a will in all cafes, except where the rule of law over-rules the
intention, and this is reduceable to four initances. i. Where
the devife would make a perpetuity. 2. Where it would put
the freehold in abeyance. 3. Where chattels are limited as inheritances. And 4- Where a fee is limited on a fee. SeleR?
cafes in Chan. 3 1. -Papillon v. Voice. And this intention muft
be colle&ed from the whole of the will or writing itfelf. 3 Burr.
I541. 1581. 1662. 2 Burr. 771. iio6. I ez. 231, and ma-

ny other books.

What then was the intention of the teftator as expreffed in
his will ? The value of the real eftate devifed to the defendant,
the quantum of his debts, and the amount of his perfonal eftate
at his death, would give confiderable light in this matter.
Thefe have not been fatisfaforily afcertained to us. However,
'we have been told, that the debts, fpecific and pecuniary legacie5 with the charges of adminiftration, will amount to about
6386o. and that the perfonal eftate produced only [588 13f9.
o that if the defendant had paid the £3000, there would have
been a deficiency bf[2 7 o, and upwards' and nothing left for
-he refiduary legatees. The counfel for the defendant infift,
thai he fhall hold the remainder of the real eftate unfold by the
executors, exempt from the payment not only of any of the legacies, but alfo of the debts, unlefs the perfonal eftate and the
produce of the lands fold fhall prove infufficient for the difcbarge
of the debts; becaife, they fay, the [3ooo
was no kgacy to the
executors ; it was no charge on the lands,- for they were all de-.
Vifed to the heir at law; it was no conditior, there being no remedy in' cafe of failure5 and it was no limitation, there being no
devife over.

The

SUpRpMp COUrT or PennyyfAania.

The defendant took poffeffion of the lands fo devifed to him; 1796.

this evidences his afient to pay the £3ooo, and the intention of %.-y%.i

the teflator that he fhould pay it to his executors, is too plain
to bear argument. What rule of law or reafon is there, to prevent the executors from recovering it ? Suppofe the devife to
the defendant had been fubje& to the payment ojbis debts, in-'
flead of a certain fum of money, viz. £3o0o, as in this cafes the
lands would be affets at law. The teltator has fubje&ed the
gift to tli payment of the 3ooo, and it muff pafs cum onere.
I, therefore, confider the £3000, on thejrfl queftion, as an
equitable, if not a legal, charge, or as a trV/or condition, which affe&s and binds the real eftate, devifed to the eldeft fon !homas
Ri0ion, and which it was the manifeft intention of the teffator
he flhould pay at all events. Thomas could not be confidered in
this cafe as heir at law in Pennfylvania; where, if at that time a
perfon died intefrate, leaving divers children, his real eftate defcended to all his children equally, the eldeft fon having only a
double portion, or fhare ; and, therefore, the devife may be confidered even a eonditi~n. Cafes in .Eq. temp. Talbot 27 . 1 Aik.
383.

3 W'ill 325.

The fame judgment was given by all the then juffices of the

Supreme Court, five years ago, between the fame parties, on a
cafe ftated on this verypoint; which I deem conclufive.
But the fecond queffion, refpeaing the paymeni of the mortgage on the 2 18 acres is new.
It appeafs to have been the intention of the teftator, that tle
legaciesfpeificandpecuniary fhould be paid, as well as that the
dt.ife of the real eftate fhould take effe&; and if praaicable
the affets fhould be fo marfhalled, that the teftator's intention
in.the whole fhould be carried into execution. 'the teftator
feems to have thought the £3000 -ould have been fufficient to
have difcha'rged all his debts, and alfo the particularpecuniary
legacies; but in this he has been miftaken.
A mortgage is a-debt; it arifes on a loan; and there is a covenant
to pay the money : It is a fpecialty debt. Thomas RruIlon is an
bxeresfa&'us of the whole real eftate, on his payment of the
3000 ; and if that fum had been more than fufficient to pay
off all the particularpecuniary legacies, by which I mean thofe
given to his widow and children infidl of their refpelivefharesof
his real e-7ate, I would be of opinion that the mortgage fhould be
paid out of the refidue of that fum, as much as any other debt,
and that he 1hould not take the egate with this additional incumberance, as it does no where appear in the will, that the
teftator meant he flould take it with this lien upon it.
It is the conftant pradice in Chancery, to allow children the
fame favor as creditors.*Talbot 275. I therefore think,-that the
fpecic and particularpecuniary legacies bequeathed to the children
ought

246

CA sS ruled and adjudged in the

'1796. ought not to be brought in eafe of the particular lands mortxv_1-'gaged; but it feems to me, that the devife of the refiduary part
of the perfonal eftate fhould give way to te devife of the real
efate, fubje&ed to the. mortgage, and be applied as far as it will
go in difcharge- of the mortgage ; for the devifce of the real
eftate muff take it cum onere, that is fubje& to the mortgage,
unlefs the refkdue of the perfonal eftate will be fufficient to difcharge it. See Gilb. Rep. in Eq. 72. Talbot 202. 2 Ad. 23o.
I Will. 730. 694. _Prec. in.Cha. 578.
The followiiig judgment was thereupon entered.
BY T1E CouRT :-It is confidered by the Court, that the
plaintiffs recover the fum of money mentioned in the verdia, to-gether with lawful' intereft thereon, and the cofts of fuit ; and
that if there fhiould remain any overplus, after paying ard fatislying the general debts, the fpecific and pecuniary legacies, out
of the perf6nal eftate, and the equitable charge of C3oOo on
the lands devifed to the defendant, that the fame be applied, in
the firft place, in difcharge of the mortgage on part of the faid
lands to the managers of.the .ennfylvatuia Hofpital, and afterwards of the charitable legacy, and then among the iefiduary legatees, agreeably to the will of the teftator.
NicnoLsoN's Leffee 1'1erfWX 'MIF1LIN.

A

QUESTION

arofe in this cafe, whether the defendant
had given a written authority to Edward Bonfall (a Scrivener, who kept an office for -the fale of lands) to difpofe of the
premifes in queftion, which the leffor of the plaintiff alledged
hehad contra6led for, and bought, under that authority.
To prove that a writcn authority was given, but had been
rniflaid, the Plaintiff's Counte offered Edward Bonfall, as a
witnefs :
SBut,
'Yr
aTE CouR-r -- The agent is not a competent witnefs
to prove his own authority for the fale of lands, in this way:
the contents of the writihg muff be proved by other witnefls ;
and then he'might be allowed to flhew in what manner he had
exectlted his inftru6lions.
The plaintiff not being able to give any other evidence of
this preliminary fatl -f'uffered a non-fuit.
Lewi and Gibjon, for the plaintiff. L'gerfoll and Cony for
the defendant.

&p~ernker

