Pbiadelphia COURT

OF

45

COMMON PLEAS.

forced, as the Plaintiff, having negleaed to iffue a fecond attachment, had not done every thing in his power to procure
the attendance of the witneffes.
But, BY THE COURT:-It is queftionable, whether the
A& of Affiembly empowers us to iffue writs of attachment
into another County; and there are other modes of proceeding, equally efficient, and clear of any doubt. It is unneceffary, however, to enlarge at prefent on this topic; as
the Plaintiff has evidently done all in his power to procure the
attendance of the witneffes; and the refufal of his overture to
take their depofitions, is a ftrong additional circumflance in his
favor. The caufe muft, therefore, be continued, fubje& to the
rule for trial at the next term, or Non Pros: And, in the mean
time, we dire&, on our own authority, a rule to be entered for
taking the depofitions of infirm witneffes de bene e; to be read
in evidence upon the trial, in cafe of death, or inability to attend. To that extent only, however, do we grant the rule;
for, ve think it would be going too far to add, that the depofitions ihall be read, in cafe the witneffies depart from the State.
for the ufe of REF
eu
et aL

INLIS,

,E

or
INGLIs's Executors.

HIS was an a&ion of debt, to recover a legacy of fi5e,
Twhich Samuel Inglis had beqtieathed to his brother George
Inglis, the nominal Plaintiff, by his laft will and teftament, bearing date the x2th of Auguft 1781. The defendants pleaded ift.
Payment; 2d. .Nitdebent.
The circumitances of the cafe were thefe : The tefator died
in the beginning of Sept. 1783; and George Inglis, being in an
embarraffed fituation, obtained a friendly loan from' Mr. Coxe, of
xoo dollars, and afligned his legacy under his brother's will to
that gentleman on the Sth of April 1-784, in truft, that ifir. Coxe
Thould reimburfe himfelf, and pay over the balance to the lega.;
tee; who acknowledged, at the time of the tranfaaion, that
there was fome difficulty in getting the money from the executors. Accordingly, when Mr. Coxe applied a few days afterwards to one of the executors, in behalf of George Jug/is, fome
doubts were expreffed to him, whether the legacy would be paid
at all; as G. Inglis was confiderably indebted to the eflate of
the teftator, and other perfons lately concerned with him in
trade; but upon Mr. Coxe's difclofing the nature of his bond,
and of the affignment which' he had taken to indemnify himfelf,
the executor, in terms of great caution and exprefsly for the
family honoi, promifed to pay as much as would fatisfy Mr.
-Cxe's

1790.

46

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1790. Cox's claim ; which promife was puntually performed at the
V
end of the year from the teefator's death, allowed, either by the
operation of the law, or prefcribed according to the provifion4
of the .will, for the p.ymentof legacies. It appeared, likewife,
that on the 26th of 4pril 1784, G. Ingls, having bargained for
the purchafe of certain goods from Reede & Torde, in payment
of the value amounting to ,i 12 4s. 6d. executed another -affignment to them for the refidue of the legacy in queftion ; and,
on the 4 th of January 1788, .M'r. Coxe, by an inftrument, reciting the debt originally due to him, the legacy bequeathed to
G. lnglis, the firft mentioned affignment and the motives on
which it was made, the receipt of ;37 1os. from the executors, and the refiduary aflignment laft rdentioned; transferred
the unfatisfied intereft in the legacy to Reede & Forde. Mr.
Coxe had not however communicated to Reede & Forde the obftacles fuggefted by the executors, as to the affignment of the
legacy, before the execution of the refiduary affignment to them;
-nor, indeed, was there any evidence that they were apprifed of
that cii cumftance, 'till they applied to Mr. Cox to inflitute the
prefent fuit, when he mentioned it to Forde.
But, in oppofition to the claim of Reede & Forde, under
their affignment, it was fhewn, that G. Inglis, was previoufly
indebted to the houfe of Inglis & Long, in which the teftator was concerned, and that he was alfo confiderably indebted
in partnerfhip to the houfe of Willing & .Morris, furviving
partners of Samuel Inglis. Being, however, at the fame time
entitled by an article of agreement to a fhare in the commiffion,
on the alfignments of goods from J7amaicato Samuel Inglis & Co.
he 'applied to them in September 1783, for thQ amornt due
to hrim out of that fund ; but, at firlt the-y refufed to pay it
to him, in any other way, than by carrying it to the credit of
his account ; though, afterwards, (in December 1783) on a reprefentation of his diftreffes, as well in converfation as in letters,
they advanced him the money. In the letters which he wrote
upon the occafion (dated the 2oth of Caober and the 5 th of
November 1783) he mingled, with the language of misfortune
and complaint, an overture of transferring his claim to the
legacy in fatisfafion of the debt, to Wrilling &-.Morris, as furviving partners of Samuel nglis r- Co ; provided his fhare of
the J7amatca commiffion was paid to him ; faying in the firft
letter " that lie would chearfully aflign the legacy ;" and in th&
fecond letter" that he would affign it ;" but, neither before nor
after the receipt of the commifions, entering into any formal
inftrument of affignment.
On thefe fa6cs, the queftion to -be tried was ; whether Reedt
& Forde, or Willing & .Morris, were entitled to the balance
die on the legacy ? A-d it was argued by Les7, for theformer,
and

.Phiddep
1 i COURT OIF COMMON PLEAS.

47

and by .Fi/ber for the latter. There being two pleas , one xT7.
affirmative and the other negative, a preliminary difcuffion%-"
arofe between the counfel; as to the right qf beginning ; which
THE PRESIDENT terminated by declaring it to have been long
fettled, that where there are two pleas, and the proof of one of
them lies upon the plaintiff, he fball always open the caufe.
In fupport of the claim of Reede & Forde, it was argued, that
the goods had been fold to G. Inglis on the credit of the legacy,
and not upon his perfonal credit; that the affignment was of
a date prior to the delivery of the goods, fo cautioufly had they
conduded themfelves in order to avoid a contrary conftruffion ;
and that the year obferved for this payment did not elapfe till
fometime after the fale'of the goods had been completed. It
was remarked to have been the intention of the teftator to
afford a perfonal relief to his brother, and not to furnifh a
fund for the payment of his debts; from which it was concluded, that the conftru&ion neceffary to the oppofite claim,
being fo contrary to that particular intention, ought at leaft
to be ftrongly fupported by the general reafon and juftice of
the cafe.
But reafon and juftice co-operate with the teftator's intention. There was no notice either to Cxe, or to Reede & JAorde,
of the alledged affignment, in favor of W1-illing & Morris ;,for,
although it was intimated, to Coxe, that there were claims fubfifing againif the legatee, he had no reafon. to expede, that an
adual affignment of the legacy would ever be pretended.
Notice is indeed effential to the validity and effe& of an aflignment ; for, being an equitable transfer, it muft be taken fubje&
to every equitable circtimfance. In the prefent cafe, however, there was no affignment in fa&, or in law, but merely
an offer to affign. It is true, that an incomplete conveyance
will, .in fome inftances, bIe carried into effedl by a court, of
equity ; but the court will never exercife fuch a jurifdidion,
in aid of a creditor, who did not truft to the particular fund,
againft the claim of a creditor who did. In England, ajudgment creditor does not iruft to the lands: and, therefore,
articles made for a valuable confideration, and the money
paid, will in equity bind the eftate, and prevail againif any judgment creditor, rnefne betWeen the articles and the conveyance
z P. Wins. 282. But there was not even a fufficient confideration for the pretended affignment to Willing & Morris.
The commiffions on the Jamaica affignments had amounted to 6 or f. 7oo, and the balance paid to G. Inglis on. rit
December- 1783 amounting to £. 276, was due to him in his
Own right; but the debt which he had contradted with Willing &
Morriswas a partnerfhip debt ; and to compel him to furrender
his, legacy merely to obtaim his- own money, was an unconfcioznable

48

CAsas ruled and adjudged in the

The
originally given by Willing & Morris had no poffible
relation to the legacy ; nor can it fairly be prefumed that the
fubfequent payment was made on account of that fund; for,
it is incredible that a balance of C. 276 fhould be advanced
in confideration of a legacy amounting to no more than C. iSo.
The queftion, therefore, may reafonably and juftlyreft on this
ground, that Willing & Morris, fenfible of the hardibip that
would be done by retaining the commiffions due to G. Inglis,
and affe&ed by the diftreffes of the brother of their late partner,
freely paid the money, without relying on any other agreements for the payment of their debt : while Reede & Forde,
doubtful of the refources of G. Ingl&, fold their goods to him
on the credit of the legacy alone ; and under thefe circumftances the claim of the latter muft in laW and equity be preferred.
For Willing & Morris, who were the real defendants, it *as
contended, that the offer to affign the legacy, and the payment
of the commiffions in confequence of it (from which latter
circumftance an acceptance of the offet was inferred) amounted to a compleat contrat. The reimbmfement of Mr. Coxe
was clearly no evafion of that contrat ; but merely an acknowledgment of family obligation, accompanied alfo with a declaration that nothivg more flhould be paid on account of the
legacy. Wherever poffeffion goes according to an agreement,
the bargain fhall be confidered to be executed, although no
papers have paffed between the parties., I Vern. 363. and indeed
the general rule is, that whatever, for a valuable confideration,
is covenanted to be done, fhall, in equity, be looked upon as
done. 3-P - W rns. 21S. I .P./Wims. 277. But Willing &.Morris,befides the conclufion from thefe authorities, asthe furviving partners of S. Inglis, might reafonably prefume,'that no formal affignment was neceffary, fincethe perfonal eftate of tlie teftator was involved in the joint fRock of the company; and when they paid
the comrhiffions, they acquired, ipfofaelo, a right to retain the
legacy that had been offered as an inducement for that payment.
Nor is there a want of that notice, which will fatisfy the law
upon this occafion. Mr. Coxe, the firft affignee, was apprifed
in the very origin of the tranfa~tion, that there would be fome
difficulty in obtaining the legacy; and the executor, to whom
he applied, declared, that no more than the amount of Mr. Coxi s
debt would be paid. If notice, therefore, was neceffary, it is
decided, that notice to a firft purchafer is binding upon all who
follow him. 2 Ak. 242.
But, it is certain, that whoever gets the verdia, an innocent
perfon will fuffer. The only queftion, therefore, isj whofe right
Is

1790. fcionable a& of coercion, void of any legal foundation.
'~~'credit

Pl%aelph;a COURT oV CoMMoN PLEAS.

.49

is the beft ? Where the parties are equal in equity, the pri- 1790
ority of right furnifhes a fair rule for decifion ; and the claim
of Witllng & Morris is not only founded on a greater value in
point of confidence, *but on a fuperior title in point of date.
The executors had early notice of it ; they were juftifiable
in retaining the legacy to pay it ; and the aaion now trying is
fufficient evidence of their refufal (after being warned for that
purpofe) to recognize the adverfe affignment.
The PRESIDENT, having recapitulated the evidence as itated
in the commencement of this report, proceeded.in delivering
the following charge to the jury.
SHIPPEN, Preident-The aCton brought to recover the
between
legacy in queftion, tutr's, in reality, upon a difpute
t
Reede & Forde(who have a right to ufe the legatee s name on
the occafion) upon the one hand,, and Willing & Morris,upon
the other. The affignees of the nominal plaintiffhave produced
a regular transfer of the legacy, and are unqueftionably entitled to a favourable verdi6, unlefs their claim is fatisfaCtorily
repelled by any circumftancee of law or equity, arifi'ng from
the defence irhich has been made.
It is objeaed to their claim, then, that Willing U Morris
are entitled to the legacy, by virtue of a prior affigmnent ; and
although this affignment is not fo regularly proved as the
other; yet, the defendant's counfel has argued, that it is equally
effe&ual in point of equity. The fa&s refpefing the alledged
affignment to Whilling & Morris are briefly, that G. Inglis,
being entitled to a fum of money for his fhare in the commifLions, arifing fromthe fale of goods configned to S. Inglis ;.1 Co.
applied for payment to Willing & Morris, the furviving partners; that they refufed, at firt, to make the payment, infifling
that they would retain the amount in fatisfa&ion of a debt dua
to them from G. Inglis; but that eventually they complied,
being firongly folicited by G. _glis, who in his letters offered
to ferve them in any way, and particularly to make over his
legacy. Now, it is contended, that this compliance muft be.
taken to have been on the terms of the requeft ; and that the
terms amount, at leaft, to a promife of an affignment. The
cafe upon the fa&s difclofed. is not, indeed, free from doubt,
but if the jury hall, upon the whole, be of opinion, that the
parties, in paying and receiving the commiffions, contemplated
a, d intended a transfer of the legacy as a confideration, then,
the law itated by the defendants being well founded, the pro-.
rnife to affign created an equitable right, and, without any
further formality, vefted the legacy in Willing & Morris. For,
by making and accepting an offer, every bargain is confunated.
luch has been faid on, the point of notice; and, it is true,
that if the obligee of a bond-affigns it, notice ought to be given

G

to

5o
1790 .

CAsE& ruled and adjudged in the

to the obligor, in order to prevent his paying thG money to the
who has thus parted with his intereft. But there is no
pofitive law that requires a firft aflignee to notify a fubfequent
one; and the,cafe is not within the general principle of the
rule that has been cited.
The fole obje& of confideration, therefore, is, whether the
money arifing from the commiffions, was advanced by Willing
&".AIorri to G. Ingli,, on the faith of his promife, and the credit of the legacy ? That fa6l it is the province of the jury
to afcertain and decide : If the affirmative prevails in their
minds, the verdi& ought to be for the defendants; but if
they entertain a contrary opinion, the nominal plaintiffs are'
cntitled to recover.
Verdi& for the Plaintiff.*

Sperfon,

INTS .Verfus MIL~LER.
eIwEPLEVIIN.-The Defendant offered Francis ailey, as5a,
who being fworn on his voir dire, Laid "that
hews a judgment creditor of the defendant's;i that he expe&ted, if the defendant recovered, to be paid, at leaft a part of his
debt ; and that he did not know that the de1fendant had any other
property than what was involved in the Replevin, to fatisfy him;
but, on the contrary, he believed that his payment depended on
the defendant's recovery." It appeared, likewife, that Bailey
was the attorney in fa& of the defendant, and in that'charaaer
was a&ive in profecuting this, and .other fits.
The admifflon of the withes was .oppofed by Bradford, Todd,
and Leuy, who cited i Dal. p. 62, M'7eaugh v. Goods. And
fupported by Serjeant, who cited -Abransv. Bunner.

I~.withefs ;

BY TH:E COURT : -. he law on this fubje& has been fuilly

fettled in the modern cafes, by an accurate difcrinmination
between the competency and the credibility of witneffes. The
fiream of juftice fhould, however, be preferred clear and uncontaminated : and although a creditor is not excluded from
giving teftimony, as fuch; yet if he acknowledges an expe&ation, that he maall b bettered by the fate of the caufe,
(as "in the cae of .M'Yeaugb v. Goods, which wvas properly
ruled) he is fen fible of a pofitive intereft, that muft give a
biafs to his mind. From the anfwers' of the withefs, there..
fore, we mauft reje&t his teftimonyr.
.,
M'OLENACHAU

*There was a motion made i'or a new trial ; but on the 26tht
I Auguft ;79o it wa 'withdrawn ad judgment entered confoum.
b]¥ to the verdi&t.

