CAsns ruled and, adjudged in the
-795"
HADDENS verfiS'

CHAMBERS.

HE opinion of the Court was delivered in this cafe,
At the court of Nf/J Prius,held in Hunting%cafe was fQated for our opinion. The
following
the
eounty,
dn
plaintiff was jointly and feveially bound, as furety, in a bond
with, and-for, the defendant. After the bond became due, the,
defendant was difeharged, under the general infolvent a& of
the State of Maryland, paffed in April 1787 ; and, fubfequent
to that difcharge, the plaintiff was fued on the bond, paid the
amount with intereft and cofts, and then inflituted the prefcnt
aftion (in which the declaration is for money paid for the ufe
of the defendant) to obtain a reimburfement.
Under thefe circumfiances, it is clear, that the affion would
be fuftained in England, againft a bankrupt, difcbarged by the
bankrupt laws of that country. The infolvent law of Maryland
does, indeed, exonerate the debtor from all debts due or owing
from, or contra~ted by, him, prior to his deed of affignment;
but the EnglJAZ ftatute contains words equally comprehenfive ;
and, yet, it has never been deemed to extend to cafes like the
prefent. The plaintiff could not have been entitlcd to a dividend of the infolvent debtor's effects, and it would be a denial
of juffire to refufe him the only remedy, which he can have on
this occafion.
Judgment for tie
Plaintiffi
SatITH, jZflice.

[

DE WILLR .verfuS SMITH.

HIS cafe came before the Court on a Certirarito remove
a judgment, which Smith had obtained before the Mayor
the City of Philadelphiain a qui tam fuit, brought againft
Catharine De Willer as a Huckfler, upon an Ordinance of the
Corporation (p.f1ed the 26th November, 1792) which impofes a
penalty of 37f6 uppn any Huckfier, who within the limits of the
city, hall buy any proviion, fruit, &c. more than is neceffary
for his, or her, family ufe, except after ten o'clock on market
days.
Two exceptions were taken to the proceedings by 7.McKean
and S. Levy: ift. That the judgment did not ftate that DeWViller was proved to be a Huckjer. I Salk. 404. 4 B1. Com.
I Burr. InL 330. 331. 333. 335. 336. 23328o. -28.
2d. That the Ordinance of the Corporation is contrary to the
Conititution

