,790.

SUPREME COURT

of the UnitedStates:

February Term, 1790.

T

HIS being the period prefcribed by law, for holding the

firft term of the SUPREME COURT of the UNITED STATES,
the judges met at Ne'v-Tork, the feat of the Federal Government, their refpe&ive commifions were read,, and they wkerc
qualified according to law.'
JOHN JAY, appointed CHIEF JUsTIcE, by a commiflion bearing date the 26th of Septerber, 1789.
CUSHiNG, appointed one of the JuftiCes, 2 7 th Sept. 1789.
Wm.
JAMESWILSON, appointed one of the Jufices, 29 th Set. 1789.
JOHN BLAIR, appointed one of the Juftices, 3oth Sept. 1789.
EDM. R'ANDOLPH,.appointed Attoiney General of the United
States, 26th Sept. 1789.
The following RULES were declared and eftablifhed.
BY THE COURT :- I. Ordered, That the Seal of the court
fhall be the Arms of the United States, engraved on a piece of
fleel of the fize of a dollar, with thefe words in the margin;
,4 The Seal of the Supreme Court of the United States 5" and
that the Seals of the Circuit courts fhall be the Aris of the
United States, engraven on circular pieces of filverof the fize of
1-2 dollar, with thefe wo ds in the margin, viz. in the upper
part, " the Seal of the Circuit Court ;" and in the lower paryt
the name of the diftri& for which it is intended.
2. Ordered,That (until further orders) it fhall be requifite to
the admiffion of attornies and counfellois to pradice in this
caurt, that they fhall have been fuch for three years paft in the
Supreme Court of the State to ,,ihich they refpeaivelypbelong,
and that their private and profeffional chara&er thall appear to
Ordered, That counfellors fhall not pr,-fife as atbe fair.turnie-, nor attornies as counfellors in this court.
the follov irtg"oath,
3. Ordered,-That they refpe&ively talg,
do folemnly £wear. that I will demean
€z.-" I

*400

CASPS ruled and adjudged in the

179. myfelf as an attorney (or counfellor) of the court, agreeably and.
%Ov-' according to law; and that I will fupport the conflitution of the
Unitcd States."
4. Ordered,That (unlefs, and until, it fhall be otherwife provided by law) all procefs of this court fhall be in the name of
"

the

PRESIDENT

of the UNITED

STATES."

The court adjourned,fine die.

4ugeft Term, 1790.

HE court being met, 'a commifilon appointing JAME,
IREDELL one of the Juftices, bearing date the ioth of February, 1790, was read and he was qualified according to law.The court adjourned, fine die.
T

February Term, 1791.

T

IEcourt being met at Philadelp'ha,the feat of the Federal government, it was
Ordered, That the counfellors and attornies, admitted to prac.
tice in this court, fhall take either an oath, or, in proper cafes, an
affirmation, of the tenor prefcribed by the-rule of this court on
that fubje&., made in February term, 179o. *
After qualifying a number of counfellors and attornies, the
court adjourned,fine die.
0See ant. p. 399.

d4ug$

