SUvmrE

CovT tr Pennzhna-

JYune Term,

i

790.'

TYoD1t vusY'THom-?sox~

T

1I1S caufe being marked for trial, it was continued by the

plaintiff- whereupon the defendant's counfel moved for
a rul& to try at the next term, or nn prr. This, however,
was
againft thofe governments. In Eneland alto all interell was againk
law, till the Stat. 37. H. 8. 0. 9 the growi,,g fpirit of commerce,$
no longer reftrained by the pr.nciplrs of the Ro i an church, then fifl
egan to tolerate it, The fame caufePs produced the fam- effeet is
kolland, and- perhaps, in fame other commercial and catholia
countries. But even in Fngland the allowance of intertftis not given
W exfress law but rell on tnt discretion O]'udges andjuries, as the
avbiter, of damages. S&metimes the judge hrts enlarged the intereil
to 2o per cent per annam, tx Chanc. Rep, 57). In other cafes he
fixes it hab tutily one per cen lower than the legal rate (2Tr. Ark.
343-) and ina moltitude of cafes he refufes it altogether. "As fos
initance, no intereft is 1 owed,
z On arrears of rents, profits, or annuities x Chan. Rcp; 184. ZM
P. W. t63. Ca t-mli. Talbot2. .
2. For maintenance, Vin. Abi .Intereft. C. ro.
30 For monie3 advanced by Executors. 2. Abr. Eq. 53r, xsr4
4. Forgoods fold ind delivered. 3. Wlfon2o6.
5. On book-dubts, open accounts, or amplc contraltS. 3. Chan. Rep.
64. Freem. Ch. Rep. 133. Dougl. 376.
S. For m,nty lent without a note. 2. Str3. 90.
7- On an inl 0 "dbill of exchange, if no protcft is taken. 2. Stra. 9o.
8. On a bond after 2o years. . Vern. 458. or after a tender.
9. On a decree i. certa'n cafes. Frerm. Cii. Rcp. x8x.
xc. On judgm nts in certain caIs, as battery and flander. Freelh.
'Ch Rcp. 37.
x. On any decrees or judgments in certain courts, as the exchequer
chamber, Douglafs, 753z . On cofts, 2. Abr. Eq. 5 30. 7"
And we may ald,, once ibr all; that there is 'no inftrument or titl
to debt fo formal ,nd ftcred, as to 'iv, a !right to intereft on it under
all poffible circumftances. The vvords of Lord Man field io Dougl.
753" where be fays " That the queflion was what was to be the rule
for alre fing the damage, and that, in this cafe, the interest ought to
be the measure of the damage. the aaion being for a debt, but in a cafe
of ano-her fort the rule might be difjfrent " his words in Dougl. 376"1 That intereft might be payable in cafes of delay : Ifa jury. in tbeir,

dtkcretion, flhal .think At to. allow it." Ad the dodrinr in Giles. v.
Hart.

16

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

z 79*. was oppoted, the plaintiff's counfel alledging, that there, was
iUw-a-.jb default on his part, as the procraftination arofe, in fa&,

from the abfence of a material witnefs, and the late arrival of
a record from New-Jerfey, which- was fo imperfealy exemplified, that it could not be offered in evidence. To this it was
anfwered, that there had been no fubptena taken out for tie
abfent witnefs ; and that as the aaion had been depending for
more than two years, there was evidently a laches in not obtaining the exemplification fooner.
By TihE COURT :--It is 'certainly a great default, that an

arlier aplicatioa was not made for the exemplification; and
that

Hrt.
2. Sailk. 622. that Aamages, or intereft, are but an acceffary to
the debt, which may be barred by circumflances, which do not-touch
the debt ittelf;-fuffice to prove that intereft is not a part of the debt,
neither 'comprehended in-the thing, ior in the term ; that words
whirli paas che debt, do not give intereft neceffarily, that the interefti
depOends
altogether on t'e diseretmo of the judges andjurorsr, who will
govern themfelves
by atl exiling circumfiances; will take the legal

intereft for the tacafure of their damages, or snore, or lels, as they
thihk right ; or will ghe it from the date of the contra&, yr from a year.

after, or deny it altogether, according as "the fault or the fufferings
of the one or the, other party fliatl dictate. Our laws are generally
an adoption of yours; and I do not know 'that any of the flates have.
kanged them in this particular. But there is one rule of your and our
law, which, while it proves that every title of debt is liable to a difallowance of interefc Mnder fpecial circumfiances, isfo applicable to our
<afe, that I fhaNl cite it as a text, and apply to it the circumflnces
of our cafe. It is laid down in Vin. Abr. Interei C.
Q7 and 2. Abr.
F9. 5q29, and elewhere in thefe words, I Where, by a-general and
nationalralamity, nothing is made out of lands, which ate afligned for
payment of intereft, it -ought not to run.on during t'he time of sueb
eaiamity.' This is exaftly the cafe ip queftion. Can a more keneral
national.calamity be conceived than that univerfal devaflationj which
took place in many ofthefe flates during the war ? Was it ever -nore
exadly the. cafe any where, that nothing was made out of the lands
which were to pay the interest ? The produce of thofe lands, for want
of the opportunity of exporting it fafely, was down to almoft nothing
in real money; e.g. Tobacco was lefs than a dollar the hundred
weight. Imported articles of clothing or confamption, were from 4
to 8 times their ufual price. A bufhel of fait was ufuallv fold for
loQib. of tobacco. At the fame time' tfefe lands, and other property,
in which the money of the Britilh creditors was vefted, -were paying
I-igh taxes for tLeir own proteftion, and the debtor, as nomilal holder. flood ultimate inlurer of their value to the creditor ; who was the
real proprietor, becanfe they were bougrt with his money. And.who
will effiiate the value of this infurance, or fay what would have been
the forf-ir, in a cc.ntrary eent of the.Nwar ? Who will fay that the
ri& of the proleitV %as not worth the.interelf of its price ? General
calagdty

SuplEmpa

CavaT or Penntfyvanta1

that intrufions were not given to fome perfen, to fee that it

1790.
was regularly madt out. On that ground alone, therefore, the %---.j
motion muft be granted; But even if the plaintiff had not been
guilty of a lacher ; if it was a misfortune, and not negligence,
that had prevented the feafonable arrival of the record, we
doubt the propriety of refufing the rule.
ihould ffill.
REsPuBLIcII

calamtiy then prevented profit-, and conrequently flpped. interefl,
which is in lieu of profit. I lie creditor fays, indeed, Ie has laid out of
his money; he has therefore'loft the ufe of it. The debtor replies, that
if the creditor has loft, he has not gained it :that this may be a queftion between two parties, both of whom have loft. In that cafe the
courts will not double the loff of the one, to fave all lofs from the
other. That it is a rule of natural, as well as municipal law, that in
queftions de damno evitando metior ef& conditio poflidentis. If -his
maxim be juft, where each party is equally innocent, how much more
fo, where .the lofs has been produced by the-a& of the creditor? For a
nation, as a foCilty, forms a moral perfon, and every me.ker of it is
Rerfonallyrefponfible for his fociety. It was the a& of the lender, or
of his nation, which annihilated the profits of the money lent ; he
cannot then demand prSfits, which he either prevented from coming
into exiftence, or burnt or otherwile deftroyed, after they were produced. If then there *be no inftrument, or title of debt, fo formal and
Lacred as to give a right tointereft under all poffible circumstances, and
if circumstances of 'exemption, stronger than in the prefent cafe,
cannot poffibly be found, then no instrument or title of debt, however
formal or facred, can give right to interest under the circimstances of
our cafe. Let us prefent the question ini another point of view.
Y ur own law forbade, the payment ot interest when it forbade the
receipt of American produce into Great Britain, and made that produpe fair prize on its way from the debtor to the cr.editor, or to any,
other for isufe and reimburfement.. All perfonal accefs betweei
creditor and debtor was made illegal, and the debtor who.endeavoured
to make a remitment of his debt, or interest, muft havz done it threetimes, to affure its getting once to hand: For two. out of three velrels
were generally taken by the creditor nation, and fometimes by the
creditor himfelf, as many of them turned their trading veffels into.
privateers. Where no place has beea agreed on for the payment of a
debt, the laws of England. oblige the debtor to fetk his creditor,
wherefoever he is to Iefound within the realm. Coke Lit. 21 o.'b. but.
do n6t hind him to go out of the realm in fearch of him. This i our
law too. The firft aa, generally, of the creditors and their agents
here, was to withdraw from the United with their books and papers.
The creditor thus withdrawing from his debtor, fo as to render l amq.r.

