HIGH COURT of ERRORS

and APPEALS

of Pennlfvania.

y/t Seflion,

1792.

LAWSoN, Appellant, verfits MouusoN, et. al Appellees.

PPEAL from a fentence of the Regifter of Wills &c. and
of
two juftices of the Common Pleas for the County
(before
1789,
July
in
argued
been
had
cafe
The
,Cumberland.
the prefent organization of the Judiciary Department under the
exifting Conftitution) and afterwards in OEober 1792, by Bradford and Ingerfoll, for the appellant, and by Lewis for the appellees.
The fa&s, on which the appeal arofe, were as fojlow :-A
written paper, purporting to be the Will of Janet Alorr/on, dated the 19 th of O&ober 1775, was exhibited for probate to the
Regifter of Wills, &c. on the 19 th of ObTober 1786. A caveat was entered by the appellant againft admitting it to be proved, alledging that the te*atrix had mad6 a latterWill, which
expreffly revoked the former will; and that the latter Will had
rot been cancelled, nor defiroyed, although it could not be found
aften her death. The Will of Oc ober 1775, was, however,
eftablifhed, by the fentence of the Regifter's Court; from which
fentence the prefent appeal was brought; and new evidence was
given.in this Court.
On the record and evidence, it appeared, that JanetMorri.
fon had a Will written before this of 1775, by Oliver,dndeifon,
which former Will was duly executed., The fame fcrivener
wrote this Will. He afterwards wrote another Will in 1777,
and a,fourth Will about the latter end of the year 1779. The
teftatrix deftrcved the firft Will, when the Will of 1775 was
exe uted, and alfo that of 1777 when fhe executed the Will of
1779. In the laft Vill, the fcrivener (who was a witnefs)
I former Wills, and
telkve." there were words revoking
that

A

HICH Co RT OF IERRORS AND APPEALS.

that he had ufually inferted fuch a claufe in all the Wills he x'/92.
wrote; and yohn Ray, a fubfcribing witnefs to the Will of 1779,
fwears, that, when it wgs executed, the teftatrix declared it to be
her laft Wil- and that fihe revoked'all former Wills. The
legatees were generally the fame, in theWills of 177S and 1779;
but the legacies were larger in the laft, on account of the then
depreciated ftate of the paper bills of credit emitted by Congrefs.
Thbe Will of 1779 had been delivered to the teftatrix about ten
days before her death, by a i1'lr.Linn, whom flie had fent for it,
to Oliver Andeifon, who then had both Wills in his cuftody; but
the Will of 1779 has not been feen afterwards. YamesLawfon,
the appellant, is the eldeft fon of games Lawfin, an only brother of the teftatrix, who had no fifter ; but her brother had t'vo
other fons, named Thomas and Francis, 'and no other defcendants. The teftatrix had induced. her nephew, James, to come
fromIrelandtoPennfy/vania,withhis family,fome years before her
death, and about a week before that evett received them, with'
their effe&s, into her houfe, and a few days after the had obtained
the Will of 1779, from Oliverbnderon. For fome weeks before
her death the expreffed great kindnefs for the.appellant, and
frequently faid, "all her eftate muff be his." But when the
Will of 1779 was executed, the one of 1775 was not cancelled;
becaufe the teftatrix was then out of humour with the appellant, and fhe was afraid left the will of 1779 migt get into his
fhe defired Oliver Anderhands, or be loft ; and, in fuch-cafe,
as he has-depofed.
jon to produce the will of 1775,
Upon this flatement the queftion arofe,-whether the Will of
3779, (whofe contents did not appear, but from the depofition
of Oliver Anderfon) was a revocation of the Will of 1775 ?
For the appellant, two propofitions were ftated, and the cor-'
refponding authorities cited :-ift. That the Will of 1777, was
a revocation of the Will of 1775, in aCE, as well as intention,
either of which is fufficient. Moore 177. 3 Aod. 260. Dy.
143.

'O

of Ex. 20. Swinb. is. 525. Cawp. 9o. God.Or.Leg.51.

54. Cro'L I 15- i Roll. At.614. 2 Eq. Abr.7 7 .- 2d. That thts
mere cancelling of a latterWill, much lefs the miflaying or lofs of
a latter'Will, is not a revival of a formerWillh The cancelling may
be done with a view to die inteftate; and the miflaying may -be
accidental; and the Will of 1777, being in writing, can only, by
the a& of Affembly, be annulled by writing. 3 A4k. 799. -Doug
36. Cowp. 49- 1 P lrm. 343, 345. 4 Burr. 2513. Loft. 465.
470. Pow. Dcv. 534. 535. 1 vol. Penn. L. (Dal. Edit.) p. 53.
feS. 2. 6.
F r the Appellees, the cafe was confidered in various point.&
of view. ift. .Does the law of Peylvam-a permit the
revocationof a Will by parol, or mufl it be in writing P The
a 6t of Affembly declares that it flialt be in writing. x Vol.
Dall Edit. p. 55. f. 2. 6. In England it is true, a Will might
have

CAsEs aflrmed or rever1ed in the

I792.

z

havebeen altered byparol; but it muft have been exprefs, not
intentional, in the prefent, and noi in the future, tenfe. God.
Or. Leg 51. 54. Swinb. 531. Cro. I. iiS. Theevidence
here is not pofitive ;. it is mere fuppofition, that the Will of
1777 in exprefs terms revoked all former Wills. 2d. Is the
a6t of making a fubfequent Will (even where its contents are
unknown) fufficient in itfelf, as a revocation of a former Will?
" The authorities dire&ly difaffirm the pofition, where the fubfequent Will dQes not alter the whole difpofition of the eftate
and if the fanie folemnities are neceffary to' revoke, which are re quired to make a Will, there is not, in the prefent cafes, proof
by two witneffes of the contents of the Will of 1177 Befidesy
the paper called a fubfequent Will, does not appear to be more
than a codicil, as it is not proved that any Executors were conitituted; and both might, 'therefore, ftand together. There is
no proof that the latter Will difpofed of the perforial eftate differently, but only that it increafed the legacies. Perk. 179.
God. Orph. Leg. 53. 12. 3, Cro.E. 721. Pow.Dezi.5 3 8. Swinb.
532. Cro. E. 721. Cro. Car. 23. 4 1 Show. 537. 534. Salk,
592. Sho. P. C. 149. Hardr.375 GoCwp. 87. 3. 3 IV'il 4972 B. Ref, 937. S. C.-3dly. Does the deftrudion of the latter,
revive the former, Will ? The intention of the party is undoubted.y material upon this queftion. The teff.atrix fent for
the Will ; but whether fhe cancelled it, with a view to die inteftate, or Yames Laufon deftroyed it, with a view to claim the
whole eftate as heir at law, can only be explained by the cir.cumftances ; and there is one circumflance that is ftrong indeed,
to fhew that fhe never meant to give to him the whole; namely, that James Lawfon had arrived in Cumberland County before
the making of the lateft Will, and yet fhe thetein bequeathed toa
other perfons, legacies to a confiderable amount. The cancef-"
ling of a latter Will, under cireumftances lefs forcibfe, has beerk
deemed the revival of a former one. 4 Burr. 251-2.-4thly. Is
there any difference between the revocation of a Will hiPennfylvania, and in England, fince the ftatute of frauds and perjuries?
The doarine in the a& of Affembly (i vol.Dal.'Edit.p.64o.)
is the fame as the doctrine in the ftatute, 29 Car. 2 c. 3 and theeffe& fhould be equally uniform.
For the appellant, in reply. All the cafes cited by the oppofite
tounfel, relate to real eltate in'England, fubfefquent to 'the ftatute
of fraud- and perjuries. But our pofitioi is, that a fubfequent
'Vi!l, or Teftament, does, of itfelf, revoke all prior Wills of
pemfonal eftate. A latter Tejlarent, fays S'winb. iS always infringes a formei' one; but a co,!cil is different; and the diftin"tiont
between a Teffament and Will is cftablifhed in Coup. 9o . The"
prefent Will was not found (nor was any other Will found) in the
poflffoa

1tte,

CoURT or, EmtRotts Aim AfPvAtt,

pofreeflon of the Teftatrix; and tihe prefumption, therefore, is, 1792.
that (he cancelled the Will of 1777, with an intention to die u
inteiiate.
ChEw, Prefdent, delivered his opinion, in general terms, in
gffirmance of the fentence of the Regifter's Court.
M'IKrAN, Chief jfllee. There has been no cafe or precedent
cited, which comes up to this, in all its parts ; but there are
feveral cafes, wh.ch depended upon the fame principle.
Before the ftatutc of 29 Car'2 ch. 3. *Wilis in England might
be revoked by any expref- words, .ithout writing'; and fo it
v'.s in Pcnnlylvania, until altered by pofitive law ; but in England, flmce that ftatute; and in Pennf'yoaniar, fince the acdt of
Aflembly, of the 4 th flnne, "concerning the probates ot
written and noncupative Wills, and for confirming devifes of
lands,' Wills of lnds muf. be revoked by writing, accompanied
with folemnities fimilar te thof." neceflary for making the Wills..
Here, latter Wills of lands, or a writing, revoking a forme
*Will, muff be proved by two o1 more credible. witnefes ; and
no 2eflmzent, or Will in writing, forpetfonale ate, can be revoked by zvordf, except the fame be committed to writing and read
to the te~fator, is allowed by hini,and proved Ly two witneffes at
Jeaft. Befides thefe a0ual revocations, there are cher ads of
the teftator, which have ahvays been confldered as revocations,
becaufe contraryto, or incoqfijient with1 the Will, and evidencing
an alteration of intention j as-a deed in fee ; or a leafe for years
to the fame devifee, to commence'after the teftator's dcath ; a
fubfcquent matriage aud birth of a child ;,cancelling, obliterating or deftroying the Will, and fuch like. "rhefe are termed,
"hqied, cojitruiiive,or legal, revocations," and full fubfif! 2s
they were before the ad of Affembly, or the flatute of frauds,
Cro. I. 49. Carth. S. But all prefumptive tevocations may ba
encountered by evidences and rebutted by other circumftances,
CO'up. 53. Doffg. 37"
It has been often determined, that a Will, revoked by a fubfe4uent Will, but not cancelled, wAs re-eflabliflied b1 the canu P. C. 146.
cellation of the fubfequent Will. I Sho'v. S37" ---.
t Will. 545- 2 Petn'74 1 8. C. .Pec.Ghan. 459. S. C. 4. BUr--S1., Cowp. 86. 92. Dg. 40. 2 B1af-.p37. 3 Aiild. 204
Salk. 592, 3 Mod.
There are. however,fome particular crcumlances, inthis cafe.
befides the general queftion.
It appearl, that the appellant bad lived in-the ncighbourhood
of the tefuatrix when (he muite the Till of i 7 79; that the lewere chiefly the fame as in the prefent, but
Ktees in that Will
me lesacks were lrgr, oi accyunt of the ione being thea
depreciated, and that Oli.er.Andeifoii was exprefsly requeftod
Li dla tefiatrix to take care of the Will of i7.5, I&l the laic
OOF

zioIl'

CAsE-S afirmed or reverfed in the

7792. fhould get into the hands of the appellant, or be loft. On the
'V-%other hand, it does not appear what became of the Will of
-779, after it was fent and delivered to the teftatrix, whether
it was deftroyed by her, or any other perfon,-but it cannot
be found. It does not appear, wherein the Will of 1779 differed from the prefent one nor what alteration was thereby made
in particular, only that there were partial alterations, and there
were no etcutors named in it.
In this view of the cafe, I am of opinion, that the mere circumftance of making the Will of 1779, is not virtually a revocation of the former, the contents being unknown, and it not
appearing to have been in e at her death, bur rather the contrary, and that the had cancelled or deftroyed it. No other
perfon, was interefted in its deftru&ion, from any thing I can
difcover, except the appellant, or his brothers, who were not
in Anier ca 3 and charity will induce a prefumption, that he herfelf deftroyed it. If this is the fa&, the firft Will is not thereby
revoked, as neither could be complete Wills, until the death of
the teftatrix, and her deftroying it had the fame effet as if it
had never exifted, unlefs it had been clearly proved, that the
did it with an intention to die inteftate. Should a contrary
opinion hold, to wit, that the firft Will was revoked, at the
infrant the fecond was executed, yet the cancelling of the fecond by the feftatrix berfelf is a revival of the firft, if under:royed. Cowp. 92
i-arwood v. Goodrigh.
H re is a goodfv4foing Will properly attefted : There is no
way to defeat it, b-ut'by proving it was revoked by- another Will,
fubt/'i-fing at the death of the Teftatrix, or that fhe cancelled the
latter Will, fo revoking all former ones, with a mind to die inteftat r. And as the appellant has failed in fuch proof, I concur with the Prefident, that the 'Will of 1775 muff fland ;
and that the fentence of the Regifter's Court be affirmed, with
double cofts.
TH.E CoURT concurring, the fentence of the Regifter's
Court-was, accordingly, affirmed, with double cofts. *
* See aat. *. i66 Boudinot et al. Exccutors againfl Bradford'.

If/u41

