SuPREME COURT oF Pefy,kania.

lot

For feveral years no fuit was inftituted on the bond, and the cir- ,788.
cumiftances of Bird became greatly embairaffied. The bills had
been duly protefted for non-payment ; and the plaintiff (who
had never returned them, nor even, at the trial, did heoffer to return them) furnifhed accounts in which he charged 20 per cent
damages. The queftion, therefore, was whether the bills, were,
under thefe circumftances, to be confidered as a payment of fo
much of the bond ? And in the charge to the Jury, it was
ruled,
By THE CouRT :-That originally the plaintiff had his election to confider himfelf either as an agent, or as a purchafer,
with refpe&t to the bills of exchange ; but that the two circumfiances, of retaining them in his own hands, and of charging
20 per cent damages, were fufficient evidence to fhew, an ele&ion
to receive them in payment; and that, therefore, for the amount
of the bills the defendant was entitled to be credited in an action on the bond.
Verdi& accordingly.
RESPUBLICA" verfU

ST. CLAIR.

HE defendant had been outlawed, for robbery; andbeing
afterwards apprehended, the prefent ifflue was joined on
e identity of the perfon. Bradford, Attorney General, prayed the affiftance of the Court in fending afubpcna for witneffes
into Bucks County, as he could not employ the fherif On a fervice out of his jurifdi&ion. The application was for a fpecial
meffenger; the Attorney General obferving, that if, as in Engla~zd, the Judges were attended by Tflaves, thofe would be
the proper officers to employ on the occafion.
But THE CouRT recommended, that he fhould confult with
the fheriff, on a proper perfon to be hired for the fpecial fervice.
RESPUBLICA

verur
fMITCHELL.

HIS was an appeal 'from the fettlement of ZficceMs acby the Comptroller General ; and the caufe had
Tcount
been referred, by confent. The referrees reported a fum due to
.Mitchell; but had omitted to allow him itiereft which, being'
fiated to the Court,
IT WASRESOLVED, !That the State was liable to pay intereft, as
wbil as individuals ; and that the Court would aldd it, under the
circumftances of the cafe, although'the referrees had not exprefsVy given iAirt their report.

