SuPE.ME COUT oF Pennf,vanla.
1792.
AUSTIN verf s SNOW'S Leffee.

N ERROR. -An a&ion of ejc&ment being referred, the referrees found for the plaintiff, with cofls, but without damages.
On arguing the cafe, Lewi contended, that this was bad,
damages being effential to the award of cofis. It is fo, even in
eje&ment, at this day. 3 B!. Coin. Say. Law-. o/ls. 4. 2
tra. o5I. He alfo urged, that the judgment was entire, and
could not be reverfed as to the colts, and confirmed as to the
refidue.
Ingerfoll faid, that coils might be given where damages were
recovejioble ; and although they'are not given, Law ofEjec7. 3 65.
and that judgment might be affirmed for part, and reverfed for
part. 2 4. Ray, 893. 4. lb. 1534. II Co. S6. Befides,
this was a reference where niceties were difpenfed with. It is
affigning that for error, which is for the plaintiff's advantage.
BY THE COURT :-We are here upon a point of pratice.
The ufage of referring eje&ments, as well as accounts, is very
ancient ; and it has been the confiant ufage to confirm awards,
although no damages, or coils, are found. It would hake
many judgments, were niceties to prevail.
_

STEWART et

A

Judgment afrmed.

al. Veifus Ross.

COMMISSION was iffued, on the part of the defendant, and varidus interrogatories filed, defigned to be
put to diterent witneffes. The return of the commiffion was
figned by all the commiffioners; and it appeared that the plaintiff was prefent at the taking of the depofitions ; but, to certain of the interrogatories no anfwers were returned by fone of
the witneffes, and thofe which were anfwcred by one witnefs,
were not anfwered by others. The plaintiff objeifed to the reading the commiffion: But,
BY THE COURT :-Had the execution of this commiffion
been exparte,it~would not only have been informal, but fubitantially exceptionable. As it is returned, however, "bythe commiffioners, on the part of the plaintiff, as well as by thofe on
the part of the defendant, it is tb be prefumed, that the witneffes knew nothing about the fubje& matter of the interroga4ories, to which no anfwer is returned. At any rate, it is a -vai-

