Pbilade/phia COURT op ComomN PLPAs.

7

bly, being in derogation.of the common law,-ought to bd ftri&ly -1790.
confirued. It does n6 t dire& an inqueft to be held ; but gives a
general authority to levy upon all lands, and, of courfe, a power
to fell at once, all the defendant's eftate in the premifes. The
fecond a& does not repeal, but only alters the preceeding one, by
dire&ing an inqueft to be held, where real eftate is taken in execution. It does not, however, defcribe the particular eftates on
which the inqueft fhall pafs ; and the inconveniences of admitting it in the cafe of life eftates, are infurmountable.
After confideration, the Prefident delivered the opinion of the
Court, to the following effe&.
SHIPPEN, Prefident.-The queftion is whether an eftate for
life can be taken in execution and delivered to the plaintiff, upon return of an inqueft, that the profits are fufficient for paying
the debt in feven 'years ? On a fair conftru&ion of the a& of
Afl-mbly, we do not think the Legiflature intendedi that an eftate for life fhould be delivered to the plaintiff, in fatisfa&ion of
his debt. The general intereft, and of confequence, the feptennial value, are fo precarious, that they could nor have been in
contemplation; in making a pofitive provifion, that the eftate
Thould be delivered until the plaintiff's debt ispaid. Befides, if the
Legiflature had fo intended, a provifion would furely, have been
added, to fupply any deficiency, in cafe of a failureof the eftate,
before the difcharge of the debt ; as, in another cafe, the fame a&
efp~cially provides, that, if the valuation of the land delivered to
lhe plaintifftowards fatifa&ion of his debt fhall fall fhort, he may
have another execution againft the defendant's body, lands, or
goods, for the refidue.
We are, therefore, of opinion, tlhat' an eftate for life taken in
execution, may be fold, without holding an inqueft on its value : And, confequently, that the inqueft, in the prefent cafe,
muff: be qualled.

O loler Sefions, 1790.

SHARPE

T

.veifuxr

THATCHER.

"HIS was a certiorarito remove the judgment given.ini this
I
cafe by Juftice Wharton. On a motion made by Serjtant to
reverfe the judgment, it appeared that P.,atcher, the prefent defendant, had originally fued Shar.e, the plaintiff, before Jultice
coatex,

I8
1790.
'v-for

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

Coates, to redover a debt ; that Sharpe offered to make a fet of,
water-money, that is, a charge for Thatcher's drawing water
at his pump ; but that Juftice Coates refufed to admit it, and,
gave judgment for the debt demanded. That, thereupon, Sharpe
fued Thatcher before Juffice Wharton ; and his fon was fworn,
as a witnefs, to prove an agreement between the parties, relative
to paying water money, but he declared he knew nothing about
it. That Sharpe himfelf was then qualifiedtothe truth of his
account ; and upon this evidence alone, Juftice .Whatiton, gave
judgment for the amount ; though it was formally certified .to
him, that Juftice Coates had already decided upon the fAme queftion.
THE COURT, in terms of great difapprobation, declared
that no Jutice ought to take cognizance of a caufe, which had
previoufly been decided by another Juffice. But without
taking that point into confideration, they faid a judgment given,
merely on the atteftation of the party interefted, could not be
fuftained.
judgment reverfedo

verfus

GALBRAITH,

Garnifhee.

HIS Scieri Paciasagainft the Garnifhee

a foreign attachTment, was returnable to December terminnext;
and on.mo-

tion of Howell, and Hallowell, THE COURT gra.nted a rule for
taking the depofitions of witneffes, on notice to the Garnifhee.,

The BANK of NORTH AMERICA Verfus VARDON.

HIS was an afion againft the indorfor of a promiffory
note in which the only defence attempted on the trial,
was the want of notice, that the note had not been paid by the
drawer, when it became due. Lewis, for the plaintiff; would
not admit, that in Pennfylvania, the ftri&l do&rine of notice applied to the cafe of promiffory notes as in Eniland; where notes
are put by ftatute upon the fame footing with bills of exchange,
and muft, therefore, in that refpe&, as. well as every other, be
regulated by the fame rules ; nor that a proteft on a promifFory
note was at all neceffary here, except for the conveniency of afcertaining the demand and non-payment. He produced, howvier, the mellenger of the Bank,, to prove the fa of notice being

