CIRCUIT CoURT,

Pen4lvania Diftri&.

concluded; but fo much time was confumed in this previous 1795
bufinefs, that the judges declared they could not longer protra& t
the fitting of the Court, on account of other Circuits, and, therefore direaed the cafes of Sewar- & Wright to be continued
generally 'till the next term. It appeared, however, that on the
preceding day, Lewis had informed the-dt/orneyfir the Dijfria,
that he would proceed to trial in the cafe of Stewart, with the
teftimony already in his poffeffion, though he expe~ed other
Witneffes; and, on this ground, as the Court was about to break
up, he moved, that Stewart fhould be admitted to bail.
But, BT THE COURT:-It was Stewart's own fault, not the
fault of the profecutor, that the trial was poftponed. He has
now the fame witneffes, that he had at the time of the poftponement; but the judges cannot, confiftently with their other duties, enter on the trial. It is true, that we have eftabliflhed it
as.a principle, that no laches fhould be imputed to the prifoner,
for taking time to fend into the counties where the witneffes for
the profecution refide, after he ha received notice of their names;
but that is not the cafe at prefent. Stewart has no claim upon
the legal difcretion of the Court; and, indeed, the circiimfances
muft be very ftrong, which will, at any time, induce us to admit a perfon to bail, who flands charged with High-Treafon.

The

UNITED STATES Verfus PORTER.

NDICTMENT for high treafon, committed in the county
of Allegheny in the btate of -Pennfylvania,by levying war
againft the United States. After a long examination of witneffes it was difcovered, that the defendant, though he was at,
Couche's Fart, had taken no part in the infurreaion, that, in
fa&, he was not the perfon, liable to the charge, but another
perfon of the fame name ;.and, thereupon, the Jury, by direction of the Court, found a verdi& of Not Guilty.
The only occurrence, therefore, which it is material to notire on this trial, was the following. There were two of the
Petty Jury, (Thomas Coates and William Callady) who being
called, and not challenged, alledged ficknefs in-exc'ufe for not
ferving, and they were, for the prefent, fet apart : But the whole
pannel having been eventually drawn out of the balloting box,
without furnilhing twelve names unchallenged, and thofe jurors
perfevering in their excufe, the counfdl for the prifoner retra&-'
ed his challerige of another juror, who was, thereupon, qualfied by order of the Couft.
V-4
Th:

