Ci cuf-r CotiRT, Penn/ lvama Difri&.

335

be ftri& in the previous ftages of the b'ufinefs, before in attachmnt can be awarded ; and all the documents, upon which it
is awarded, muit be filed with the Court.

179o.
.

The UNITED STATES Verfus MONTGOMIERY.

AN

attachment being awarded againff the witneTrs, who
iflhdid not attend at the return of thefubpcna that,.
ed in this caufe on the part of the defendant, the Marfhall (Ni.
cbols) fuggefted that they refided in a diftant County, and afked
the opi o n of the Court, whether it was hig duty to ferve the
procefs.
,BY THE COURT :-An Pttachment is the pro'cefs of the
Court, regularly iffuing for tie adminifltration of juftice ; and,
therefore, iuf be ferved by the Marfial

The U14ITF-D STATES verfus The INSURGl-NTS of Pent./5flvania.

SEVER AL indi&ments for high treafon having been

found

againft perfons concerned in the infurre&ion in the four
TVe7eru Counties of Pennjjlvania, a Venire was iffued in each
cafe, for fummoning a Jury returnable to the piefent Term; and
to each writ the Marfhall returned a feparate pannel, contabijng
the names of thirty-fix Jurors, from the city of Philadelphic, Jtl.
teen from the county of Dela'ware, nine from the county of
Chfer and twelve from each county, in which the treafon waa
charged to have been committed, making feventy-two Juros on
each pannel, and one hundred and eight Jurors fummoned on
the whole.
The a& of Cngrefx (t Vol.p. t12. f29) having dire&_d
" that any perfon who fhall be accufed and indiaed of treafon,
fliall have a copy of the indi&ment, and a lift of the Jury and
witneflres to be produced on the trial for proving the faid indiament, mentioning the names and places of abodes of fuch witneffes and jurors, delivered unto him at leaft three entire dayq
before he thall be tried for the fame," the Attorney of the Diftri& had, in due time, delivered to the feveral prifoners copies
of
of the indiament, of the pannel of jurors, and of the lilt
witneffes ; but he had omitted to deliver a copy of the caption
of the indi&ment, and to fpecify the occupations, or the places
of abode of the jurors and witneffks, otherwife that by mentioning the counties in which the jurors refpe..ivly refided.

J

