CIRCUiT CouRT, Pennfylvania Diftri&.
1795,
The UNITm STATES Verfus STEWIART.
The

T

SAmEuerfu WRIGHT.

HE Prifoners being brought to the bar, on feparate charges
of High Treafon, Lewis read their depofitions, ftatifg the
abience of material witnefifs in both cafes, and moved to poftpone the trials 'till an opportunity was given, to procure the attendance of thofe witneffes from the -Weftern Counties. He
urged, th general inconveniency of a commitment and trial at'
fo great a diftance, from the fcene of the criminal tranfa&ion;
the friendlefs fituation of the prifoners, and the poverty of the
witneffes; and he alledged, that, under fuch circumftances, an
immediate trial would be a mere exparte proceeding. To ihewthe lenity with which perfons thus charged have always been
treated, he cited FJi. C.L. z, and to account for the delay in procuring the wimeffres, he obferved, that as the aa of Congref( 1'. p. 67 f .29) declared, that "in cafes punifhable with
death, the trial fhall be had in the County where the offence was
committed," if it could be done without great inconvenience,
the prifoners might reafonably have expeted that indulgence,
until the motion for a Special Court had been refufed, on account of the peculiar difficulties of the cafe, in oppofition to the
general inclination of the Judges. Nor could there be any preparation for trial 'till the charge was known, 4nd the names of
the witneffes who vere to prove the inditments. By the prac-;
tice under the Conftitution and laws of Pennf.lvania (and the
cafe is the fame here) a defendant cannot have compulfory procefs to bring in his witneffes, before he has fworn that they are
material ; and he cannot fo fwear 'till he knows the charge and
the witneffes that fupport it. It is effential to the adminifiration of juftice, and to the feelings of humanity, that the defendants fliould have time to inveftigate the chara~ters of wit.
neffes, and to bring proofs incontradiCtion to the accufation.
Hence, even in England, where the Counties are generally
fmaller than in this country, a period of ten days is allowed,
of the -witnefles and jurors,
between tfie time of furnifhing lifts
and the time of trial: 7 Ann. c. 21. 4 B1. CoDn. 345. and althu'
the a& of Congrefs ( Vol p. I i2.f.29) only fays that copie&
of the indi~tment and a lift of the jury and witneffes fhall be
delivexed to the prifoner "at lcqf,three eitire days before he fhall
be tried," yet it muft certainly be the intention of the Legiflature to afford an opporturity to canvafs the rharaCters of-the
witneffei,

344

CAsEs ruled and adjvdged in the

X795. witneffes, or the provifion would be nugatory:, that opporturlity
cannot be deemed to commence 'till he knows their names, and
it cannot be deemedto be compleat, uhlefs be has had time. to
fend for information to the places it. wbich they refide. The
Court will, therefore, exercife a difcretion as to the length of
time to be allowed, in proportion to the diftance ; and, conformably to the cafe in Fo. i, the time fo allowed for preparation,
will be fubfequent to the delivery of the copy of the indi&ment,
and the lifts of witndelhs.
Rawke (Attorney for the Diftri&).premifed, that an, acquiefceace in the prefent motion, would, probabl, put offthe trial
for the term. He urged, that the prifoners"mufl long ago have
known the nature of 'the charge, and the proofbsnecefihry to thir
.defence; and ougltlo have made an &arliei"application for the'
aid Qf the,Court to-procure their witneffes. Due diligence has
not been ufed, rior, indeed, is it fo ftated in the affidavits; and
it is not only neceffary to fatisfy the, Court that the witneffes
are material i btitalfbo that the party applying has been guilty of'
no laches, or.negle-&, in omitting to apply to them and endeavouring to procure their attendance. 3Btur?. 15 13. Ever fin'ce the 20th
Apri~l 'there has been an opportunity to make this motion;
which was no.t the cafe in .F. 1, as that arofe before a Special
Court, a6ting under a fpecial commiffion, for fpecial purpofes.
Nor. an there be ajuf reafofi to objeck to the trial's coming on,
becaufe of the place at which the Court is held. On the motion for a Special Court, fufficient was difclofed to fhew, that
the indi6trhents wouldkbe prefen.t~d in Philadepbhia; and it was
a mere fpeculation afterwards to fuppofe that another place
would be appointed, for the trials-; particularly as all the jurors
and witnefl4s had ',een acually fummoned.
I By THrE OURT :--The only argument of weight
in fupport
of the prefent motion, is that which relates to the period of furhifhing the priforitrs with the names of ihe witnefies; but it is,
of itfelf, conclufive: for, unlefs an opportunity were afterwards
given'to inveftigate the chara&lers, and trace the conduCt of the
witneffies, it would be nugatory and delufive to furnifh the lift
of their names. The a& direts notice to be given ; this muft
be intended for the purpofe alluded to, and, for the attainment
of' that purpofe, time is, undoubtedly, neceflary.
It muft, therefore, be confidered as a rule in this cafe, and
in all other cafes of a fimilar nature, that a reafonable time fTall
be allowed, afte; a lift of the names'of the" witneffes is furnifhed
to the prifoners, for the purpofe of bringing teftimony.from the
counties in which thofe witneffes live.
The trials of &e'wa-t& Wrightwere, aeoidingly, poftponed;
and it was'then agreed that they fhould not be brought o 'till
the trial of the other prifoners, who were ready for trial, was

concluded;

CIRCUIT CoURT,

Pen4lvania Diftri&.

concluded; but fo much time was confumed in this previous 1795
bufinefs, that the judges declared they could not longer protra& t
the fitting of the Court, on account of other Circuits, and, therefore direaed the cafes of Sewar- & Wright to be continued
generally 'till the next term. It appeared, however, that on the
preceding day, Lewis had informed the-dt/orneyfir the Dijfria,
that he would proceed to trial in the cafe of Stewart, with the
teftimony already in his poffeffion, though he expe~ed other
Witneffes; and, on this ground, as the Court was about to break
up, he moved, that Stewart fhould be admitted to bail.
But, BT THE COURT:-It was Stewart's own fault, not the
fault of the profecutor, that the trial was poftponed. He has
now the fame witneffes, that he had at the time of the poftponement; but the judges cannot, confiftently with their other duties, enter on the trial. It is true, that we have eftabliflhed it
as.a principle, that no laches fhould be imputed to the prifoner,
for taking time to fend into the counties where the witneffes for
the profecution refide, after he ha received notice of their names;
but that is not the cafe at prefent. Stewart has no claim upon
the legal difcretion of the Court; and, indeed, the circiimfances
muft be very ftrong, which will, at any time, induce us to admit a perfon to bail, who flands charged with High-Treafon.

The

UNITED STATES Verfus PORTER.

NDICTMENT for high treafon, committed in the county
of Allegheny in the btate of -Pennfylvania,by levying war
againft the United States. After a long examination of witneffes it was difcovered, that the defendant, though he was at,
Couche's Fart, had taken no part in the infurreaion, that, in
fa&, he was not the perfon, liable to the charge, but another
perfon of the fame name ;.and, thereupon, the Jury, by direction of the Court, found a verdi& of Not Guilty.
The only occurrence, therefore, which it is material to notire on this trial, was the following. There were two of the
Petty Jury, (Thomas Coates and William Callady) who being
called, and not challenged, alledged ficknefs in-exc'ufe for not
ferving, and they were, for the prefent, fet apart : But the whole
pannel having been eventually drawn out of the balloting box,
without furnilhing twelve names unchallenged, and thofe jurors
perfevering in their excufe, the counfdl for the prifoner retra&-'
ed his challerige of another juror, who was, thereupon, qualfied by order of the Couft.
V-4
Th:

