C s-s ruled and adjudged in the

144

1792. ed, certified by a clerk of the Chancery, to have been figned
t-V-'i by the late dire&ors of the Spiel-Houfe, in his prefence, and
that of the commiffioners. The return was obje&ed to, and,
BY THE COURT:-This is not a good execution of
the
commiffion. The teffimony js not taken under oath: And, as
to the paper being evidence in itfelf, it is not an #fcial.
paper,
certified by the proper officers, who had, at that time, the cuftody of the Spid-Houfe, or of the books. They ile themfelves
the late dire&ors. This paper, therefore, is not admiflible as
evidence.
GORGERAT et

rrI-HIS

al.

verfuS M'CARTY.

was an .ation brought by the indorfors, the payees

I againff the acceptor of a Bill of Exchange ; which was
drawn in France, and hd been feveral times indorfed, and judgment was confeffed by the defendant, fubje& to the opinion of
the Court,-whether poffeffion of the bill and proteft was fufficient evidence, without further proof, that the plaintiffs had
paid the fubfequent indorfee ? Or, was primafacie evidence of
fuch payment, fufficient, unlefs contrary evidence was produced, on the part of the defendant ? The caufe was argued on the
15it

September, 179 1, by Rawle and Dieponceau, for the plain-

tiffs, and by Ingerfoll for the defendant.
For the plaintijs it was urged, that upon general principles,
the poffeffion of the bill'and proteft, in this country, as well
as in England, is fufficient evidence of the property; that the
bill, towever, was a Fench bill, and in France, the poffeffion
would be deemed conclufive. Ordon. Louis 14. ,d-.
i i ; and

that the obje&tion was too late after a judgment confefTed, when
the matter muft be treated as if before a Jury of Inquiry.
Lovelace r54. 278. In mercanfile -cafes a greater latitude of
evidence is always admitted, than in cafes of any other defcription. Thus, the proteft of a bill is fufficient proof of a demand of payment. If, indeed, the poffflion of a foreign bill
is not regarded as the beft evidence of the plaintiff's property,
tke refulting inconveniences to commerce would be injurious in
the higheft degree. Commiffions muft iffue in every aition on a
bill of exchange, to eftablifh payments in every different place,
in which the different indorfees may chance to refide. It is
true, that there is no authoritative precedent ; for, the cafe in
Ld. Raym. 742, is a mere loofe note, made on the report of a
few merchants, and the decifion (which clearly proves too mnuch,
if any thing, to wit, that the receipt ought to be on the proteft)
n;y have becngiven under circumA ances of fufpicion ; but the
univerfal

S

uPia
m CoupT oF Penn]osanta

V45

univerfal filence on ihe fubje&, ftrengthens the principle that
arifes from the fpirit of commercial negociation, and public convnience. The defendant's contra&l is to pay the amount of th&
bill to the payee, or any fubfequent indorfee. There is internal
evidence in the bill itfelf, that it had paffed into the hands of the
different indorfees ; and, therefore, the plaintiffs fecovering the
poffefllion, affords a firong prefumption of their having paid a valuable confideration for it ; and fraud ought not to be inferred.
The original parties to a bill are tht drawer and payee; but an indorfor engages in the tranfaffion, perhaps, without their knowledge or confent ; and, confequently, lefs evidence flould be.
required from the payee, than from the indorfor. But the poffeflion of the bill and tlroteft- is evidence of an authority, to
demand its contents. r Dall. Rep. 193 : It is primafade evidence of pioperty ; and, as fuch, muft be conclufive until itis
contradi~ted. S Burr. 2688.
For the Defendant, it was anfwered, that in this aCion the
declaration muft ftate, that the plaintiffs had paid the indorfee,
nor would the omiffion to dQ fo, be cured by a verdi t. Doug.
617. If it is material to alledge the faa, it muit be material
to prove it ; and the general rule is, that the party puft. produce the beft evidence in his power. The poffeffion of the bill
and proteft is merely prefumptive ; and, from the very nature
of the tranfa6tion, better proof muff be in the power of the
party. Even &he acknowledgement of the 6bligor will not be
received to prove his own bond ; the attefting witne ffes muff be'
examined. In Ld. Raym. 742 the cafe occurred ; and it was
there decided, that poffeffion of the bill and proteft was not
fufficient, without producing a 'eceipt from the fubfequent indorfee ; and this rulD, not only remains uncontradiaedd, but is
recognized, in Lcvela , 177, where the author defcribes the proof
to be given in an a&ion like the prefent. With refpe&t to the
argument arifing from the place where the bill was drawn,, it is
enough to obferve, that though the lex loc may regulate the
nature of the contracT, it cannot prefcribe the nature of the evidence to be produced in our Courts in fupport of it.
The Judges now (Jan. L792) delivered their opinionsferiatim as follows:
BRADFORD, Jiftice. This is an aftion brought'againft th;
acceptor of a bill of exchange, which had been feveral times
fpecially indorfed, and thz plaintiffs are the firlt of thofe indorfors. At the trial the -plaintiffs, gave no dired proQf of payment to the laft indorfee, infifting that poffefflon of the bill and
proteft was fufficient, or at leaft prina facte evidence of it.
Whether it be fo, or not, is the point in queftion.
It feefts to be fully fettled in Death verfus 8enw etrs (a)
T
(a) Luch. 83-

1792.

146
1792.

Y

CAszs ruled and adjudged in the

that by a fpecial indorfement of a bill of exchange, the indorflr
parts with his rightland difeharges the acceptor as to any pay.
ment to him ; and that hc can regain his property only by taking up the bill, and making payment to the laft indorfee. The
fame doifrine is laid down in Brunetti and Lewin, reported in
Cartheqw 13o, and afterwards on error in Lutch. 896. where

it is held, " that if the bill has beei fpecially indorfed by the
" plaintiff, he cannot recover, unlefs at the trial there be evi" dence of payment to the laft indorfee."
This payment, therefore, is a material -part of the plaintiffs'
cafe. They flate it as fuch in their declaration ; and rightly;
for, it is clear, from the cafe of Brunetti and Lewin, that if it
were not ftated, the omifflon would be fatal.(a) Being a ma.
terial fa& it muft be proved.
The plaintiffs do not-appear to deny this; but they contend,
that poffeffion of the bill ispr;miafacieeyidence of property in
it. This is the cafe with bills'payable to bearer, and fometimes
when the bill is payable to order. But, among bills payableto order, there is a familiar diftintion between thofle which are fpecially indorfed, and thofe which are indorfed in blank. Poffeffion
of the latter is evidence of title ; and Ld. klansfield affigns the
reafon in Peacock
Averfils Rhodes, Dougl. .61 . " Bills indorfed in
" blank, fays he, are confidered as bills payaoie to bearer:
" Both pafs by dehvery : And poffeflion proves property in both
i' cafes.". But bills fpecialy indorfed do not pafls by delivery;
and, therefore, poffeflion does not prove property in them.
The laft Ldorfee may transfer his right eitherby indorfement,
or by accepting payment from the indorfor. If the firft had
been-the cafe, and the prefent plaintiffs had claimed as his indorfes, it is clear, they muft have proved his hand writing. Poffeffion would have been no evidence of that : Why then ihould
it be evidence of payment ? The one is as material as the other, and it is as eafy to prove a receipt, as to prove an indorfement.
But the cafe of J-TeIdez vejfits Carreroon, (b) if it be law,

goes the, whole lchgth of determining. this queftion. It was
doubted at the bar; but I agree with the rcff of the Court,
that there is no ground to fufpe& its authority. It is neither
denied, nor doubted, nor is its principle fhaken, in any fub.fequent cafes. On the contrary, it has all the fupport we can
reafonably expe&, that of being handed to us, in our abridgments
and elementary treatifes, as eftablifhed law(c).
If this cafe needed any confirmation, it ifrikes me that the
fame principle isto be difcovered in Pigot and Clark,reported in
Salk.
ra) Carb. ro.

(b)IL. 1?qr".

743.

(c) 4

fin.25.

Bill. E . xDx. of Cae. K. B. Law. Dic.. Loclaesy. Kiddi

ur.

SUPPREMv CouRT oF

Ptnvlvanta:

14

$41. 126. and 12 Mod. 192. There the plaintifF, who was 179z,
the payee, had indorfed the bill, and afterwards brought this 1-v
a&ion againft the acceptor; It was obje&ed, that the plaintiff's
right had been transferred by the endorfement ; and that he could
not maintain the afion; but the Court held, that the indQrfement,
being in blank, did not neceffarily import a transfer ; and they add
(a) "c but if the blank had been filled up, the indorfee alone could
have maintained the a61ion." This at once diftinguifhes a fpecial
from a general indorfement ; *andproves that the poffeflion. ot a
bill, fpecially indorfed, is no evidence of a right to its contents.
But the plaintiffs rely on the cafe of Morrisand Foreman(b}
determined in this Court, where it is faid the Court held, that
cc the poffeffion.of a bill of exchange is evidence of an authority-to
" demand it contents." This is but a fhort note of the cafe,
without any flate of fa&s: and feems to me more extenfive
than the principle of the cafe will warrant. I have examined
the record, and enquired in the fafts of that caufe, and that
the decifion may be underftood I will flate them. It was an
affion between the original parties, brought by the payee againfi the drawer, upon a bill "drawn,under a particular agreement, refpe&ing the damages in cafe of a proteft. M'Iorrisremitted this bill to London on his own account, to his correfpondents Clifford and Tyfot, who had no interelt whatever in its
contents ; but with' this indorfement : "Pay to the order of Clfford and Try/ot." The bill, being pr6tefted, this aL9i~n was
brought; and the indorlement appearing on the bill and proteft,
the defendant moved for, a non-filit, infifling that the aCtion
could be brought only by the indorfee ; but the Court held that
the aftion was maintainable in the name of tht plaintiff. Unde-r all the circumftances before them, the Court doubtlefs confidered the indorfement as a mere authority to-receive the money for the plaintiff's ufe, and not as a transfer of the intereft.
In this view it is no more than what was ruled long ago in
Dherrs ,e;fus Harriot. Showq. x64. There the plaintiff had
indorfed the bill as follows : " Pyay pay to D. value on my
"1 account."' And it was objeted thatthe plaintiff's intereft
But it beingprovedthtt D.
was trarsferrtdbythe indorfemen
the indprfement being
and
monies;
the
had no inteteft in
- on the plaintiff's acecount," it washeld, that no intereft paffed, and the a-tion wa; fuftained. In ftriftnefs, perhaps, it
ought to appear on the face ot the indorfement(c)' whether it
was intended as a transfer, or an authority ; but be this as it
ay, the principle which governed'in the cafe of-Morris and
.lreran, dots n9t in any degree interfere with the prefent decifioE.
The,
T2
szat.
Burr.
2
(c)
(b) I Dal. Rep. T93.
(a) 12 Ad i'.9

149

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the.

The inconveniences, which might refult from eftablifbing fo
179,.2
4ON-- ftri&q a rule of evidence, were ftrongly urged, and ftruck me
forcibly on, the argument ; but, on a clofe infpe&ion, they will
difappear, or be found to be balanced by oppofite advantages.
The payee may avoid them if he will, by a general indorfemett, -which is now the moft common, and is faid to bethe mot proper one. The difficulty fuggefted, of tracing payment to the feveral indorfees, may be avoided by a general receipt
of the laft indorfee on the proteftt .
Befides it is a real benefit to the mercantile world, that bills
may be thus retrained. It is a defirable fecurity againft accidents and fraud ; even bank' bills, generally payable zo bearer,
are framed, in this manner for diftant remittances. Being
made payable to order and fpecially indorfed, the payment
can be to no one but the indorfee. If the acceptor pays
a bill, fpecially indorfed, to any but the indorfee, it isclear from
the cafe cited by fudge 2Teate., as alfo from Doug. 617. that
he muff pay it over again. To admit that poffefflon is, any -evidence of right in this cafe, would be.to make all bills, in effe&.
bills.payable to bearer ;-would multiply lofles, and encreafe. the.
temptations to theft.
Upon the whole, I am fully fatisfied, that as the plaintiff gave
no evidence of payment to the lait indorfee, they were -not intitled to a verdit, and that judgment 'muff be entered as m
cafe of a- non-fuit.
YEATES,
ultie, concurred, and delivered, his reafons at
large.
SritPPEs, 7uflice. I -alfo concur. I acknowledge that, on
the argument, I thought differently, from an apprehenfion that
the courfe ot mercantile negociations might be obftrued;
I ws
hut, on confidering the cafe immediately after the Termx,
fully fatisfied, that both onprinciple and by law, the mere holding
a bill of exchange, cannot entitle an intermediate indorfee to call
upon the acceptor for payment.
'Upon prinple it cannot.be; becaufe, when a man indorfes an
accepted bill, he parts, with all his right to the indorfee, for a
valuable confideration, and, as to.him, the acceptor is dfrcharged;
the right of balling. upon the acceptor can never be regained, but
by -taking up the bill from the laft indorfee, and paying him
the money. Some evidence of this payment muff be neceffary;
otherwife, one whofinds, orfleal, the bill, might fue the acceptor, and. he would be an!fwerable.againto the laft indorfee, who
never having received fatisf-&ion 'wouldfurely recover from the
.acceptor. The ufage, on enquiring, I find to be now, what it.
appears to have been in.Lord Holt's time, that when the laft indorfee receives the money.from an interiediite indorfe, he

givea

E
bpUrnD

Cet'ar 'ov Penhfylvania

L40

gives a receipt upon the proteg/, which always accompanies the bill, 1792,
and ihews who has the legal and equitable right to fue the'ac- %-vCeptor.
The cafe of Mendez v. Carreroon, in Ld. "RayM. 742. does
not fland alone : in i Lutaw. 888. the fame principle appears
in an adjudged cafe, upon a writ of error. The Court'fay, that
when the payee has once indorfed the bill, the acceptor is entirely dtdfcharged as to 'him, unlefs he becomes again intitled to receive the money by an a&ual payment to the indorfee.
Some later cafes have the fame afpe&, and no cafe appears
to the contrary.
M'KEAN, Chief Jdflice; after recapitulating the fa&s, and
authorities, proc.eeded in the"following words:
The acceptor of a bill of exchange is only liable to the laft in.u
dorfeei for, all the prior indorfers have parted with their intereft in
it, are prefumed to have received a valtable confideration for it,
and can, therefore, have no right to the money a fecond time. But
if the laft indorfee protefts the bill for non-payment, and afterwards receives back the money from a prior indorfor, fuch i ndorfor acquires a new title to receive the money from the acceptor, by fuch payment : So that at the time this aaion was commenced, the defendantwas liable to no perfon but the laft indorfee; or to the prior indorfor, who had paid. him. This is by the
cuftore of merchants, as appears in the cafe of Death v. Serawonters, .Lutwyehe. 888. and Lewin v. Brunati. 898. The plaintiffs have accordingly alledged, that they paid the fubfequent
indorfee, but offered no proof of it, except to produce the bills
and protefts. This is not fufficient; they thould have produced
a receipt from the laft indoffee, or fome witnefs, or evidence
of.payment. The ufual evidgnce in fuch cafe is a receipt at the
foot of the proteft. x Ld. Raym. 742. In that cafe the mer.
chants, who had been fworn refpe&ing the cuftom, were of
opinion, that this was the only evidence; but we think with
Lord Hlt, that if payment be any way proved, it is
fufficient. If the defendant 1hould pay the plaintiff the amount of the bills, and the laft indorfee fhould hereafter fue
him, what can prevent him from recovering the,money.? The
defendant cannot .prove that he had been paid by the plaintiff;
who may have come into poelTffion of the bills by trover, bailment for a fpecial purpofe, or by fraud, Wrhy was th6 a&ion
not brought in the name of tht laft indorfee? If it"had, the
holding of the bills might have raifed a prefumptioh, that the pla'itiffs were agents for him. The cafe in Ld. Raym. is in point z
There the plaintiff not only had-poffetlion of the bill, buthe had
been fued by the fubfequent indorfee, and a judgment was againfthim. What-might be admitted as .rimafacie evidence
in

Crses ruled an& adjudged in the

15-

1792. in other'cafes, will not do in fuch a cafe as this, bnce the cuf.._

-v~-'-,torn among merchants is oppofed to it as appears from all the'
writers and colle&ors of cafes, from the.report by Ld. Raym.
until the prefent time. There is a cafe referred to, in 3 Term,
Rep. p. 127. which alfo confirms this do&rine.
Let judgment be entered *for the defendant, as in cafe of a,
noqn-fuit.
FOXCRAFT veifus NAGLE.

W
vv~Tilghman moved for a

ITHIN the .four firft days of the term,. Ingerfoll and
new trial on the point of a
rnifdirefion of the j udge.* Serjeant obje&ed to the rule, no
notice in writing of the intended motion having been given, as
is required by the rules of the Court. The counfel for the
plaintiff then urged; that tie point they wiflhed to agitate was
left open by, the Court, and referved for argument in Bank ; at
leaft, that they underftood it fo, and that they did not confider
notice as neceffary, where a liberty of moving the point was
referved in the prefence of the parties at Nfzj Prius. But, at any
rate, the miftake was a fufficient ground to difpenfe with the
ftri&nefs of the rule. In 4 Burr. 2271. the miftake of the
attorney inducedthe Court to difpenfe with the four day rule. Serjeant. In the rule of the K. B. there is aprovifion that fuch a motion may be made after the four days, " on fpecial leave being
aJked and obtained."

BY

THE

COURT :-There was no point referved on the

trial of this caufe.

The Court had no dohbt in their minds.

but, as it was a great national queftion, we fhould have had
no objefion to a more folemn argument. We, therefore,
told the 7ury, that if the plaintiff's counfel defired to have
the queftion' re-confidered, they would have an opportunity
of moving it at the retutrn of the P2flea. This motion is direffly in*the face of the rule, and cnnoqt be fuftained.
Rule refufed..
CLAYToN's Lefioe

eriz. ALsiiousL

HIS caafe was carried down for trial, at the laft Njfl Przus in NorthumiberlavdCounty ; but the defendant refufing
j
to confefs leafe, entry, and oqf/er, the plaintuf was non-fuited.
*

See. ant,.

3z.

