68

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1790. does not. The .extinguifiment of a book debt, by receiving
6w-r-.. fecurity of a higher nature, may vary the mode of recovery,
but cannot alter the right. The money due upon the bond, io
Rigtthe money 6f the principal ; and he has an unqueftion.ble
right to'employ the name .of the o Yligee
in an adion to recover
it," If, indeed, in the cafe of negociable notes (which are to
many purpofrs -confidered as money) the fum due upon
them, fhall ftil be deemed to be the"property of the principal;
there feems a fironger reafon, that the rule fhall operate in the
cafe of bonds, which, even
.Pennfylvania, are infruments of
notes.
thanin
a lefs negociable nature
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, tha the law is clearly
in favor of the plaintiff.j

WOLAM,

.vefus. COWPERTHWAITE.

HIS was an a&ion brought againft the Sheriffof Philadelphia, for taking good*s by virtue of a writ de retorn6 ha.
tendo. The fads were as follow: One Creon, diitrained godds
of Hamilton, for rent, due to Samuel Emlen ; Hamilton, replevied the goods, and gave fecurity to the Sheriff, in the ufual form ;
lie afterwards moved with his goods into the houfe of the plaintiff, who, after rent had' accrued to him, diftrained the goods ;.
Hamilton, the next day after this diftrefs, removed -the goods
from off the premifes ; they were followed by the Officer, who
made the fecond diftrefsi, and he had them appraifed in the
houfe to which Hamilton hail removed them; ihortly after this
appraifement, and while the goods remained where they were
appraifed, the defendant in the firft replevin obtained judgment
for his rent, and iffued a retornohabendo; by virtue of whaich, the
Sheriff took the goods, and delivered them to Creen, who fold
their. at public vendue.
The queftion fubmitted to the Court was, whether the goods
were liable to be taken under the retorno hqbendo, in preference
of, and fo as to exclude, Woglam'j diftrefs ? Or whether by the
removal of the Goods by Hamilton, the lien on the property acquired by Woglam'4 diftrefs was not defeated as 2gainft Emlen ?
The Prefident after recapitulating the above fads, delivered
the opinion of tie Court.
SIlpPERt, Prefidenti: The firft point which arifes on the cafe,
is. whethefthere was any fubfifting lien in favour of the firft ilifrainor, the goods having been replevied and fecurity given ?
Whateyer doubt there might have been before, as to
this quftio% it appears to be now fettled by the cafe of Bradyl
verfu~r

Philade4hia CoulRT '1 CoMMoN PL

AS.

6,t

'erfus the 4f ignees of Bradbury, in Bron'sReports in Chancery i79 o .
427, that no lien remained in the diftrainor. By the replevin, .o 1 -j
the fecurities in the bond are fubftituted in the place of the goods,
which are reftored to the tenant, as his fole property; he may fell
them ; they may be taken in execution ; and they become liable to any future lien or incumbrance. Upon the retorno babendo, if the identical goods diftrained, are found in- the hands of
the tenant undifpofed of, and unincumbered, they may be ta1en
by the SherifF; if not, after an Elongata returned, a Wither.
num may go againif the general goods of the tenant.
As to the removal of the goods,by the tenant, and the fubfequent appratement, it will be proper to take notice of the' alterations made in the common law, by the flatutes in England,
and our a& of Affembly.
Diftrefs for rent being, at common law, in niture only of
pledges, the diftrainor had no power to fell or difpofe of them,
till the ftatute of 2 IV &" M. c. 5. f 2. which direls, that,
if upon a diftrefs made, the tenant did not in five days.after replevy the fame, the perfon diftraining might, with a proper offi.
cer, caufe the goods diftrained, to be appraifed, and after fuch
appraifement to be fold. The ftatute of i i Geo. 2. c. 19. makes
it lawful for the diftrainor to impound the diftrefs on the pre.nifes, and their to appraife, fell, and difpofe of them. Our a&
of Affembly purfues in general the dir+&ions of the ftatute of
William, and contains fome of the claufes of the latter flatute,
but omits 'that which empowers the landlord to impound on the
premifes : -the ufage, however, has been, both before and fince
our at of Affimbly, to impound on the premifes agreeably to
the directions of the a& of Geo. the 2d. Whether that ufage
will amount to an adoption of the ftatute, reed not be confideredin the prefent cafe, becaufe the goods did not remain upon
the premifes that length of time, which the ftatute requires to
give the landlord a right to appraife and fell them without a remoral ; but it is material to confider whether under our a& of
Afembly he might not legally leave them on the premifes .for
the fpace of time which he appears to have done. The claufe in
the ftatute of Milliam before recited, is tranfcribed, almoft virbatim, in the a& of Affembly. The cafe of Griffin verfus Scot,
in 2 Stra. 711. was determined many years previous to the ftatute of i i. G. 2. It was an a&ion of trefpafs, againff a landlord, for entering his houfe, and keeping poffeftlon of his goods
for eight days. The defendantjuftified, under a diftrefs for rent:
And the Court fay in that cafe, that the defendant ought to have
removed the goods at thefive days end, but having kept them for
eight days,, he was a trefpgffor foithe other thre days. This im.
plied itrongly, that the conftru&ion of the ftatute of -9illiam,
was, that the diftrainor might leave the diftref5 on the premifes,

fir

J*

-CAsEs

ruled and adjudged in the

T790. forfive days, mentidned in the a&, that the tenant mhight have thc-

%

opportunity of replevying them, in the fame plight in which they,
were when reflrained. If that was the conftruion of the ftatute of W~illiam, the like conftruf&ion will hold under our at
of Affembly, which follows the words of the ftatute. Even at
common law, goods diftrained might be left on the premifes,
for a reafonable time. In the prefent cafe, they were left but one
day, before they were removed by the tenant himfelf, and they
were quickly foflowed, and appraifed in the houfe to which they
were removed. By the a& of Affieubly they could not be appraifed
till bye'days nfter the diftrefs, they were aEually appraifed within eight days, though clandeftinely iemoved by the tenant, ir
the mean time. 'By the common law, in, the cafe- of a pound.
breach, by the owner of the goods, the diirainor may have his
aEion deparcofra&lo, or may take the goods "deftrained,wbereverhe
I Rol. Ak..
4.
finds them, and impound them again ; Co Lit-47.
the
making
and
goods
the
following
The
661.
Mod674 ; 12
appraifement, in fo fhort a time, under the diretions of the
Officer who mAde the diftrefs, was all that could be reafonably
expe&ed from ,the landlord, who ought not to be defeated of his
remedy, by the unlawful a&t of the tenant. If not defeated as agaitift the tenant, he could not be defeated as againft the firif
diftrainor, who l ad no better right than the tenant himfelf had,,
unlefs his original lien had continued.
The judgment for a return in favor of the firft dif'rainor, the
iffuing the writ of retorno habendo, and the taking of the goods.
tinder it by the Sheriff, were all fubfequent to the fecond diftrefs and appraifement, and before the diftrainor could by law
expofe them to fale. We therefore think, there was no default
in him, that the goods were in cu/lodia legis, fubje& to his lien,.
and were, confequently, wrongfully taken by the defeudant, un-,
der the writ of retorno babendo.
-POWELL 'vBIDDLE, adminylrator de bonis non &'c. of S. MIFFLIN.

HIS was an aaion'of debt to recover a legacy, under the.
follovwing circumftances. Theteflator by his laft will
.and teftament bequeathed 9iunto his friend Samuel Powell, (fon.
of Samuel.Powell, of.the City of Philadelphia, Carpenter), the
fum of Cioo in fpecie, to be put out to intereft by his executors;
the whole principal and intereft to be paid to the faid Samuel
Powell, when he fhall attain 21 years of age : Bui in cafe he
depart this life, in his minority, or before the faid legacy be.
fliall
to him, then the fame to fink into the refidue of the teftator's eltatei &¢." At the trial of the caufe, evidence was, offer-

-paid.

