88

C~ sps rulednd adjudged in the

1781. moft favorable to thofe who efpoufed the caufe of the invading
,yf-vj Monarch i and hence we may derive all the provifions, which,
on a charge of high treafon, make two witnefles neceffary to the
fame overt a&, or to two different- overt a~ts of the fame treaton, or the confeiion of the deiendant in open Court. 5 Bac.
Abr. J45.. It appears, however, as I have before intimated,
that it has'been decded that a confeffion, though not made in
open Court, if made in the prefence of two witneffes, may- be
read in evidence againft the defendant, contrary to the opinion
of the Chief Juftice Trevor, and the doubts of Juftice Tracy.
5 Bac. Abr. 152.

7. 1o. 240.

The cafe in 5 Bac. muft

have been the cafe of an examination in writing, as it is faid it
might be read in evidence: But Berswick's cafe was a confeffibn
at the time of the fa& ; fo that the former had no. conclufive influence on the latter authority.
It muft, at the fame time, be allowed, that moft of the authorities on this point, feem to lean againft the admiffion of the
pariy's confeffion in the prefence of two witneffes, as fufficient
for cohvi~tion', unlefs it is m-ide at the time of committing the
criminal a&f, or before a Magiftrate duly authorifed. But the
cafe now before us, arifes on a confeffion in open Court, and
though the whole confeffion muft be confidered together ; yet
the Jury may, unqueftionably, on this, as on every other, point of
evidence, believe one part, and difregard another.
Verdia, NOT GUILTY.

November Seffion, 1781.

RESPUBLICA verftts

WEIDLE.*

T

H[S was an indiEment for mifprifion of Treafon,. in the
defendant's fpeaking the following words-" that he had
lived fix years in London, and nine years in.Ireland; and pever
lived happier in his life, than he had done under the Engly/
government ; and that the, King of England is, our King, and
* This cafife was tried at a Seffion of 0yer 67'

Lancater,in November x781.

will
terminer, held at

See the note to the prereeding cafr.

SUPihgM CoURT oF Pennfylvania.

89

will be yours.', The words proved, by the evidefice on the trial,
to have been fpoken were, -that ", Weedle faid lie had lived fix
yem-,s in Englkid, and nine in Iekqd, and that he lived well,
and that is was not fo as people took it in this country ; and he
further fLid, the King would become King, and that the xitncfs
thought fo too." There was, however, fome attempt to fhew
thit he was intoxicated at the t:me of fpeaking the offenfive
-words.
Theindi ment war founded on the 4 th Se&. -of the A& of
Affembly (i P 4 . Dal. Edit. p. 728) and charged all the mif1rifions'of treafon there enumerated. .he words are " That
-6 if any perfonor perfons within this State fhall attempt to con"- vey intelligence to the enemies of this State,
or the United Statex
4 ef A merica, or by publicly cnd deliberately fpeaking or 'writing
'c
agaibfl our public defence; orfhallmahicioufly and advifedly in'
deavour to -etale the people to refi the Government of this
" Commonwelth, or'perfitade thlem to return to q de endence up.
" on the Cro'wn of Great Britain - or fhall malicioufly and ad"vifedly terrify, or difcourage, the people frorq enlifting into the
fervice of the Commonwealth ; or fill ftir up, excite or raife
" tumults, diforders, or infurredions in the State, or diiepofe
" them to favor the enemy; or'oppofe and endeavour to precc vent the meafures cairying on in fupport of the freedom and
independence of the faid United States ; every fuch perfon,
A6 being-thereof legally eonvided by the evidence of two or more
"1 credible wimefes,
fhall be adjudged guilty ofmifprifion of
I
91 treafon, &c." "
Bradf rd, Attorney Generali having clofed the teftimony for
-the profeution, obferved that the af of Affembly wis couched in general ard comprehenfive terms; and that the words proved to have been fpoken by the defendant were clearly within the:
fenfe and meaning of the words laid in the indi&ment. To,
Ilhew the heinous nature of the offence, he cited Fofl. 200. 20r.
4 BI. C: r1 7 ; and he infifted that drunkennef , in itfelfa -rice,
could not be an excufe for the perpetration of a crime.
*Yeatex, 'for the. defendant, premifed that the law on which
the indi6kment arofe, was new, and could only be juftified by'
the crifis of American affairs at the time of paffing it, wherf it
was neceffary to feal the lips of the.ditaffl&ed. The necefflity
no longer-exifted ; and policy would admit, what legal authoSities required, that, as a penal law, it fhoidld be fri&ly'couftrued. The part of the fedion of the ad 1 to Which the evidnce
applies, is then materially incorre& : For, it is not fence in the
prefent form of -wording and pointing. ; and can only ] renldered intelligible by adding fome words, and. by omitting the feijcolon, and the disjundive c or." By that corredion, it would.
-read thus: c If any perfon, by publicly and deliberatelyfpeak4iig
"

178 r.

CAsrS ruled and ajudged in the

i7g i. " in g or writing aigainft our public defence, fhall malicioufly
- and advifedly endeavour to excite the peoplelo refift the Go- vemment of this Commonwealth, &c." The aek, indeed,
has, in this refpe&, been thought fo harfh by the Legiflature, that
the offence has fince been reduced to ther clafs of mifdemeanors.
But it is the effence of the offence, as well upon general principles, as -upon the pofitive language of the a&' of Affemly,
that the words fhould be fpoken publicly, deliberately, maliciouf-.
lyand advifedly, with a view to perfuade others to refift the
Government. Words of mere heat and paffion will not conftitute the crime alledged ; they are often uttered when the heart
is properly difpofed ; and they muff be conflrued according to
their natural and common import, independent of the paraphrafe
of inuendo;. It is true that the wordg, in the prefent inftance, are
exceptionable ; but they manifeft in themfelves no intentidn, nor
-is there any proof of an intention, to-perfuade others to refift

the Government; they merely exprefs a matter of opinion;
and cannot fairly be converted into matter of treafon. Comb.
46o. 4 B . C. 79Bradford,in reply. It is admitted, that the 4 th fe&ion of the"
ac ofAffembly is inaccurately, and ungrammatically, compofed
but the claufe which has been the fubje of comment, on the
other fide, has always been deemed a fubftantive and independent one. Let that claufe, however, be re6je&ed on account of
its .ip'erfe&ions, 'there fill remains abundant matter to fupport the indi~tment ; for, the words -being proved, are evidence
on another claufe,, that the defendant cc malicioufly and advifedly endeavoured to excite the people to refift the Government of
this Conmmonwealth, and to perfuade them to return to a dependence upon the Crown of GreatBritain."
Again ; it is agreed, that the words fhould be fpoken mali.cioufly and advifedly- ; but ty malice the law only.intends, that
the fpeech be made in an evil and wicked temper of mind ; and
deliberation is fo far effential) that the niere ebullition of 4 tranfientpaffion fhall not be .rigidly conftrued- into defign and criminality.
The Court delivered a charge to the folowing effe :
M'KEAN, G'CkIe Jifice :--.This indi6ment charges all the
•varions a~ls which-conifitute mifprifion of treafn ; and it is
the duty of the Jury to enquire, whether the evidence fupports
pny oxie of the charges., It -is fdd, indeed, that the law on"
which the indictment is founded, is fo' inaccurately penned,
.-hat it cannot be underftood without fupplying.certain material
words i and it is, undoubtedly, true, that although, in.a common
cafe, ,oji a -mere qutttion of property -(as in the bafe of a "Will)
the rule of confttuaion is according to- the fenfe of the inftru-

lite-.Meat; yet, a aw conflituting a- crime, muft be t.ri&ly and rallr

SUPE mF. CouRT oF Pennylvania:

91

rally interpreted and purfued. The, obfcure paffage in the A&
of Affembly would be rendered perfpicuous and intelligible,
without the addition of any words, by expunging the femicoIon, and the monofyllable " or" : But even that is unneceffary
to fupport the profecution ; fince the words fpoken tended to
excite refiftance to the Government of this Commonwealth, to
perfuade the audience to return to a dependence upon the Crown
of Great Britain, and to favor the enemy; which are diftin&
and fubftantive charges of mifprifion of treafon.
It is proper to add, that the words muft be fpoken with a malicious and mifchievous intention, in order to render them criminal : A mere loofe and idle converfationj without anay wickednefs of heart, may be indifcreet and reprehenfible, but ought
not to be confirued into mifprifion of treafon. On the other
hand, drunkennefs is no juftification, or excufe, for committing
the offence ; to allow it as fuch, would open a door for the
pra~ice of the greateft enormities with impunity.
Verdi4a, GUILTY:

September Term, 1785,

BOYDY verfus. BOPST.*

N the charge to the jury, THE CouRT obferved, that the
maxim of Caveat Einptor only applied to real eftates ; as the
purchafer had the means of examining the title within his own
Vowpr. But the poffeffion of chattels, is a firong inducement to
believe, that the poffeffor is the owner ; and the af of felling
then, is fuch an afirmation of property, that, on that circum:Rance alone, if the faa f hould turn out otherwie, the value
can he recovered from the feller.

D12,

Wycor;

This caufe wps tried at Easton, N, P. on the .xotk 37ane,
1785; before the Cutmr Juzs=cz, and Rusxu, .7tc i.

1785-

