28o

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

'1797. 7'm. 183. It is only a moiety, therefore, of the furplus of the
joint flock of Mcl'Carty & Cummingr, after paying every lawful
%-o..
claim againft the company, that can, in my opinion, be liable
to the attachment inftituted by Pringle's adminiftratrix againit
M'Carty, to recover a feparate debt.
SmITH, Juxtice. As I agree with the Chief Juftice, in every
point of his opinion, for the reafons which he has affigned, it
would be fuperfluous to exprefs more than a general concurrence
in the judgment of the Court.
By THE CotIRT: Let one moiety of the money attached be
paid by the garnifhee, to the adminiftratrix of ohn Pringle; an'A
let the other moiety be paid, to the plaintiff in this aftion.

December Term,

1797.

CAMtERLING verfu' MICAr4 L.

His was an ation on the cafe, ona Policy ofinfurance dT&ted the 28th of Oeobr 1786, on, theTchooner dhn, Nathaniel Simmons mafter, on avoyage from Bath, or lVaJOington,
in North Carolina, to the Ifland of St, Thomas, It was a valued policy,.in which the Plaintiff's moiety of the Schooner was
valued at £r3oo; and the afion was brought for a total lofs.
The caufe was firft tried by a fpccial Jury in Septe;ibher Term
t 7 9 6,.when a general verdiS was found for thePlaintiffwith 28
dollars and 84 cents damages ; but, in confequence of an agreement between the counfel, there was a fecond trial in MflarJb
term '797, when the 'jury found- a fpecial-verdiS, in diefe
terms.
". 'And now at March-term A. D. 1797, to wit on the twenty-fourth of the faid month, a jury to wit, &c. being duly im-,
panelled, tried, fW6rn and affirmed, refpeiively, to try the
iffues'joined. between,the parties aforfid, on their oaths and
atlirmations, aforefaid, fay, that on the 28th October z 786 thepialtiff then and ever fince refided in the ftatd of NorthCare
lina, was owner of one half of the fchooner in the declaration.
mentioned, her tackle,, apparel, and furniture, of the'value of
ihee hundred plounds, lawful, money 'of Pennfylvania, and. oa
T

SUPREME CoUwR oF PeiyIva1Id.

-28i

tame day caufed the fame to be infured (prout policy) which 1797,
on the day and year aforefaid, at the County aforefaid, for the Lo-v*.t#
confideration or premium therein mentioned, was underwritten
by the defendant, for the fum of one hundred pounds, lawful
money, fo' the voyage, in the faid policy mentioned ; that the
laid fchooner, on or about the ninth day of November 1786f
was cleared out, and failed orl the voyage in the policy mentioned, and to the knowledge of the faid Jurors, has never fince
been heard of; from whence the Jury prefume that the faid
Veffel and cargo, were funk, and totally loft that fome time in
the year 1787, the captain and feamen, whb failed in faid
fchooner, on the voyage aforefaid, were in the State of Virgina,
and notice thereof was afterwards, and before the date of the
plaintiff's letter, of the firft of November 79~i given to the
plaintiff; but at what particular time, the Jurors knbw not ; that
the plaintiff did not give any notice thereof, or of the fuppof-.
ed lofs of the faid fchboner, to the'defendant until the firft day
of November 1792, when the plaintiff informed the defendant
ninth of
by letter, that the faid fchooner had failed about the
and
mentioned,
November I786, on the voyage in the policy
nor
captain,
faid
the
from
heard
nor
feen
that he had not fince
had
nor
cargo,
or
veffel
the
in
property
the
of
part
any
teceived
any perfon on his behalf; which information the Jury find to be
true ; and the faid Jurors further find, that the plaintiffdid not
abandon to the defendant, and to the other underwriters, on the
faid policy, or to either of them, his property in the faid fchoon-,
er, or any part thereof, -before the bringing of the aid a6tion;
'nor has he fince abandoned the fame; nor was any other proof
made of the faid lofs, previoufly to the bringing of the faid
aaion, than the information given as aforefaid, by the plaintiff'
to the defendant. And the Jurors aforefaid, furthar find, that
Kaighn one of the partners of Kaighn and Aitmore, whu
.John
effe&ed the faid infurance, as agent of the - plaintiff, has ever
firice refided in the City of Philadelphia, and had, until the prefent afion was brought, the policy- aforefaid in his . offeflion;
and that the defendant has ever fince the date of the faid policy
refided in the City of Phitadelphi . If upon thefe fa&&the law be
with the plaintiff, they find for the plaintiff, and affels damages
to the amount of ninety-eight pounds, vith intereft from Dewith fix
ember x, 1794, amounting in the whole to r. '
find for
they
defeudant,
the
with
pence cots ; but if the law be
the defendant."
The arguments before the Jury on, the trials,, and before the
Court on the fpecial verdi&, Were, in fubftance, as 'follow.
For thzllaintf , A. Le'vy ihfifted, that every fa&, which
client to re-cover, was found by
cnuld be neceffary to entitle hisWiN1u

282

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1797. the fpecial verdiS : For, when a veffel has never been heard of,
,.-.-. after fuch a lapfe of time, the legal prefumption is, that fie is
1oft. 2 Stra. 1199. Parke. 71. 2.
For the defendant, Lewis urged two points: ift. That proof
of a lofs had not been made three months previoufly to the commencement of the prefent a&ion, agreeably to the ftipulation
contained in the policy. 2d. That-the afflured had never abandoned to the underwriters.
'On thefifl pciint he obferved, that the memorandum at the
foot of the policy provided, that " in cafe of a lofs, the money 1hall be paid in three months after proof of the fame"; and
if the underwriter was entitled- to three months for making
payment, after the proof had been exhibited, there was no,
caufe of a&ion at the time this fuit was inftituted. Some previous evidence of the lofs was indifpenfable, by the exprefs agreenent of the parties. The nature of the evidence is not
particularly defined ; but the proteft of the captain, the affidavit
of one of the feameri, or fome other credible atteftation of the
fa&, fhould have beenfurniffied. If a creditor agrees to give
a day for payment, after a certain event takes place, he cannot
fue before that day arrives. In the prefent inftance, it is not
fuffi'cient to make the proof in Court; it fhould be made in,
pais ;,as in the cafe in Palmer x6o, where the ground of a&ion
was a declaration by the defendant, that" after you have prov,ed that I ftruck you, &c. then I do affume to pay you 20."
The plaintiff's letter demanding payment of the underwriters
Vvas dated the ift of Noaember'i 79a2; ahd.the fuit was inftituted the ift of .. anuary 179.3. The obje&ioh muf, therefore,
be fatal to the right of a&ion.
On thefecond point, it was. infifted, that the duty of the affured required him to give notice of the lofs, in a reafonable
time, and to abandon to the underwriter. Parke. 71. 2. i6I.
z Mag. ls. 174. 177. Had this been done, the underwriter would have been enabled to make a diligent and feafonable
enquiry after the veffel ; which may not have been found, beca'ufe ihe has not been properly fought for. Six years- elapfed
between the date .of the policy, and the notice of the lofs. The
'delay is unreafonable ; and, if it does. not entirely defiray all
means of inveftigation, muft certainly encreafe to the underwriter, the uncertainty and difficulty of afcertaining the reality of
the lofs ; while it opens a door to the aflhred for the perpetration of the greateft frauds. It is 'for this reafon, that the law
not only requires an abandonment, in fuch cafes, but the abandonment Ihould be made on the firft opportunity ; and that,
even where there is no hope of recovering any part of the property. It is like the cafe of notice to, the drawer of a Bill
of Exchange when the drawee refufes payment, r .Rep.
6x3.

SUPREME COURT.o
613. 4.

M'efP.
p.

Penflvania.

283

fI- . Ibid..P 344. f 3.

.Bid.546. 1797-.
2 Emerig. 173.
In reply, M. Levy obferved, on thefirfl point, that the proof
of the lofs arofe, in legal contemplation, from the faa, that the
veffel had failed, but for an unreafonable length of time had not
been heard of; and ther -fore, *heinfiffed, that it was not neceffary to make the pioof of lofs at the Infurance Oflice, three
months before the right of afiorn accrued. In anfwering the
fecond point, he treated the idda of an abandonment, where no
portion of the property v as faL
ed, as novel, unpreccdeatcd,
and abfurd. The term abandonment has received a fi:ed and
definite fignification ; to whith, it is effen~ial, that fornetbing
fhould be faved, in order that fomething may be abandoned.
Parke. x6i. T. Rep. 613. 4. The real purpofe, for reuiirmg
an abandonment, muft be to transfer to the underwriters
the property and the means of reclaiming and prefterving
it, which muff otherwife continue in the affured. But when
it is demonP-ratively obvious, that the fubje& matter has
utterly ceafed to exift ; that the lofs is total and final ; as
where a fhip has been confumed by fire, or has funk in the ocean ; what can be the ufe, or benefit of an abandonmint ? And
if there can be no ufe, Lex nerninem cogit ad vanafet impoffibilia.
The fallacy of the oppofite argument lies in an application of
the duties, which the law has impofed upon the affured, in the
cafe of one defcription of a total lofs, to a total lofs of an entirely different defcription. The term ",total lofs," in relation
to infurances, is technical ; and includes, as appears from Parke
iio. 6I. two fpecies ; one, where a part of:the property has
been faved, and ftill exiffs ; the other, where the whole property is utterly deftroyed. In the former cafe, abandonment is
neceffary to the fafety of the infurer ; it is the title, withoutwhich he cannot reclaim the rejiduum, nor exercife thofe a&s of
ownerfhip, that are effential to reduce it to polfhffion. But in
-the latter cafe, no fuch purpofe can be contemplated, or attained ; and the common fenfe of mankind would be fartled at the
idea, that it was neceiffary to give up to another, the ownerfhip
of a thing not in being ; of a thing which bad been completely
annihilated. To require this ufelefs and abfurd a&, from the
affured, under the heavy penalty of forfeiting his infurance,
would be wantonly oppreflive and unjuft. The analogy, fated
by the oppofite counfd, between notice of abandonment, and
1otice of a protefted b;ll of exchange, is admitted and adopted:
bar,; t mufr be recQlleCed, that the holder of the bill negle&ing to give notice, only'lofes his recourfe upon the drawer, in
cafe the d.awee had effeds in his hands; .for, if the drawee
had no effels, there need not be notice given of the rcfufal to
accept, or pay. and the holder fhall not lore his dbt for omit-

f 4.

2 Mag. 174.

Nn

tins

284

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1797. ting to give a notice, which could be of io ufe to the drawer.
X T. Rep. 410. The principle and authority of the cafes are
the fame. If any thing exifts, that can be abandoned, the
infurer ought to have notice ; but if a notice can be of no ufe
to him; there can be no reafon why he fhould receive it, any
xnore than the drawer of a bill of exchange, who has no effe&s
in the hands of the drawee. It is true, that it would be expe,dient, on the part of the affured, to give notice and abandon,

under any circumftances-of lofs ; becaufe then, if any portion
of the property iafured was faved from the general wreck, he
would have a complete right to an indemnity ; which he would
not have, ihould a part Of the property be faved, and he has negle&ed that precaution.

The omiffion, however, is at the peril "

of the affured ;. and the rifques to which the omiffion expofeshim, will always be a fufficient guard "againft fraud. Every
prudent man will give the notice: No defignine man will ne-lecb
it, left it fhould fruifrate his purpofe. Thofe who omit it will,
therefore, gfnerally,. be of that defcription of men, from whom
little is to be feared ; and the omiffion will be the mere effe&iS
of inadvertancy, or ignorance. But, although prudence recommends the pra&ice, the law does not enjoin it. 1f, indeed,
it is made effential, that notice, which was intended only for a
ihield againft the affured, will be converted into a £word, in the
hands of the underwriter; and a Court of Juftice muff condemn the-owner-of a veffel and cargo to fuftain the lofs, againft
which he meant to fecure himfelf, merely for omitting a form,
which, if complied with, could not have produced the flighteft
advantage to the underwriter. The penalty is fuxely difproportioned to the tranfgrefion.
On the firf trial, THE COURT, in the charge to the Jury,
expreffed a wifli, that the plaintiff had given earlier notice of the
]ofs to the underwriters; as it would have rebutted every
fufpicion of unfair and collufive condu&. " It was enough,
however, (the CHIEF JUSTI ,Eobferved) that no fa&k pf that kind
had been proved, nor, indeed, alledged; fince fraud is never to
be prefumed. The defendant's counfel has urged, that, before
-the affured can recover for a total loft, there mull be an exprefs
and feafonable abandonment. But by the word "abandonment,"
I underftand a yielding, ceding, or giving up; and, in general,
it applies to cafes, where there has been a great lofs,'and the
affured, reforting to the policy for an indemnity, furrenders
wvhatever, is left of the property infured 'to the underwriters.
-We cannot, however, conceive,'that when there is nothing left
to give up, there can be any thing to abandon ; and if there is
nothing to abandon, it would be abfurd, as well as ufelefs, to
•infift upon a formal a6 of abandonment. Under all thefe circumftances of the cafe, theiefore, we think that the plaintiff is
entitled

SVREME COURT oF Penq'Ivania.

285

entitled to recover the principal fum infured, and intereft, to
commence at the expiration of three months after the demand
for payment."
Verdi& for the Plaintiff.*

After the fecond trial, and argument on the fpecial verdi ,
CouRT feemed to be of opinion, "that the plaintiff could
not recover ; becaufe, he had not made -proofof the lofs, according to the ternis of the policy, three months previoufly to the
commencement of the affion." No opinion was then, however,
expreffed on the fecond objeffion made by the defendant's counfel ; but THi COURT alked, whether he would wave the objection to the time of commencing the action, that the caufe might
-he decided on its merits ?. And he refufed to comply.
'XHE

Cur. ,4dv. Ft¢i.
The jury,,after being out fome time, returned to the Bar, and
declared they could not agree, on account of the lapfe of tihe, and
expreffed a defife to examine Mr. Kaighn (who had effea6ed the infi,!
rance as agent) relative to the cbaraaer and condu& of the plaintifr.
It thereupofi appeared, that the witnefs had not heard from the plaintiff from 1786 till 1792, -when he defired that 'he policy might be.
given to Mr. Role to be recovered ; and that, fometime before, in a
converfation with the witnefs's partner, the plaintiff had faid, as a
reafon fbr not applying to the underwriters, 41that he mull obtain the
captain's protelt and vouchers of the lofs, before h8 could recover on
the policy." It, alfo, appeared, that the plaintiff was a man of irreproachable character. The Jury, having received this further fatiefaction, Loon delivered a verdict for the plaintiT..

1797.

