I34anId adjudged
CAsEs iled
'

in

the

1791. moiney of Penufylvania, in one year. Ai the time the mortgage
was executed continent,1 money was depreciated, and at three
for one. The plaintiff infifted that the whole fur fhould be
paid in fpecie, and offered to prove that Adam Haas, in his life
time, informed a Scrivener, that the money he- had received waa
as good to him as g6ld and filver ; that it was fo, in effeCt, to
the plaintiff; that he was fenfible thathe ought to pay her fpecie,
and defired the Scrivener to draw a writing to fecure it ; and that
Haas died foon after, before he had an opportunity of executing any inftrument to fecure it to the plaintiff. The defendant
oppofed the admiflion of this evid. nce': And
BY THE COURT :-This would be, in effe&, altering the con.
tra, and increafing the value of the money, in dire& op,
pofition to the a& of Affembly. It is fettled in the cafe of Lee
and .iddis * that fuch evidence Ihall not be received. The
evidence ftated, is not to explain-the contra&, but to prove a
new and a different one : And if fuch an offer as is mentioned
created any legal obligation, a different fuit -rnuft be brought to
saforpe it. The witnefs, therefore, muft be reje&ed.
The plaintiff thereupon fuffered a !nonfuit.

INGRAHAM,

Indorfee v. GIBBs, et. al.

HIS was an affion brought on two Bills of Exchange j
and upon the trial the following fa&s appeared :--The
defendants were the confignees of Cornelius Scbenkbcfi of ZmJ7erdam, who had fent a confiderable quantity of goods to them,
to be fold on his own rifque and account, with orders "to remit the proceeds in good bills of exchange, or in merchandize,
as they fiould think beft." The confignment being fold, and.
the defendants having remittances to-make on account of other
purchafed a bill from Ba§- & Soyer, (a commercial
agencies,
houfe of Philadelpbia, at that time in perfe&t credit) drawn on
V'an Brehiien EV Sons of Wimferdam, for 7,500 guilders, which

they tranfmitted"to R. H. Portener, their correfpoxdent at'that
Place, and appropriated the amount-in the following manner;
Guild. Sti%.
29o 16
ortener,
To
Wbndenlurg, 51 o io
250
Vandergoon,
Schenkhou/e, 1544 10
At
The'Defendants, 3000
being the balance,
I Dalt. "zl. Bat fee, likcwifc, Dali a67, Rollingswortb aer'

s Qgice,

VuPRZMR CoUR-

op Penn5lvatfi;

135

At the fame time the defendants tranfmitted to each of their 179!.
correfpondents, feparate fets of bills drawn on Portener, for the 'Ys
fums refpeffively due to them, to be accepted and paid when
Bjaf & Soyer's bill was paid. That bill, however, which Will
remains in the hands of Portener, was protefted for non-acceptance and non-payment; and, of c6urfe, the other bills, that
depended on it, fhared the fame fate. Scbenkhoufe then returned
the firft bill of his fet and the proteft for non-payment to the
defendants, defiring them to give him credit, for the amount,
qnd to make a remittance on account of the goods fold ; bqt this
the defendants refufed, becaufe they alledged that BaF & Soyer'
hill had been bonafide purchafed by them, as authorized faflors
for Schenkkotfe and others; and that thofe interefted in the bill
muft fuffer the damages, refulting from its non-payment, according to their refpeaive proportions. Upon this, Scbenkhoufe
indorfed and fent the fecond bill of his fet, together with a proteft for non-acceptance upon the fecond bill, to the plaintiff, who,
it was admitted, was the agent of Scbenkhoufe, and that the indorfement was made merely for the purpofe of bringing this
aftion. Another aftion was, likewife, depending againft, the
defendants in the name of Schenkhotri, to recover the balance
due on the confignment account.
After a defence on the merits, Dallas, for the defendant, fiated, that the prefent a&ion was not maintainable in point of
law; and moved for a non-fuit, on this ground, that the fireh
bill and proteft for non-payment being returned to the defendants, the fecond bill could not afterwards be negociated. He
'contended, that, abitrafted from the queftion by whom the lofs
fhould be borne, it was fufficient to deftroy all remedy on the
VII itfelf, that Scbcnkhoyjfe had refufed to accept it in payment;
denied credit for the amount; and exprefsly eforted to the original account for the goods. Befides, it will idmit of fome
doubt, whether an aftion can. be maintained on a proteft for
non-avceptancei Efp. 47. Marius 64. 73. x.H. Black. Rep. 89.
Ingerfolt and Coxe replied to the motion for a non-fuit, that
no authority could be fhewn to prove that a fecond bill may not
be negociated, though the firfl has been delivere& up. In this
cafe the bill was only fenit to the defendants, as it might have
been to apy other perfon, with a defire that credit might bi
given for it ; but if the credit was not given, the bill ought to
have been returned to henkbhoufe; and the drawer's wrongfully
withholding it can never be allowe4 to deft~oy its obligation.
As to the doubt, whether the action is maintainable on a proteft
for non-acceptance, Doug. 55 will effeatually remove it ; and
'Ve do not claiini damages under the aft of AffeimbWy (i vd. DqM.
.Edrt.p. 23) but only the principal and itterefit

t3

ruled and adjudged in the
z79r.
By THE COURT :-The objedfion is, in our opinion, iatal tcr
v
the a6lion. The a6t of Schenkboufe, in re-delivering
the bill to
the.drawer, and defiring a remittance for the goods, muft operate
as a legal extinguifhment of the bill. ft wasfent by the
'ants as payment ; Scbenkboufe refufed to receive it in thatdefend-.
and, accordinglyi returned it to the dkawer. From thatlight;
moment
CAES

the bill was, in effea, cancelled I and 8cbenkhoufe
not afterwards negociate the fecond bill$ fo as to fubjea could
the defendants to an a&i6n upon it. The remedy of the real
plaintiff, muft, therefore, be founded on the original contra&l;
and
as we underftand that an a6tion in that form is now depending,
the principal point of the corjtroverfy may be decided
in that
"without any expence or inconvenience.

On this opinion the plaintifffuffered a non-fuit.
Schenbouse v. Gibbs, et al. The aaion referred to in
the Re.;

port, was afterwards tried in :fanuary Term 1794, before the
of the Supreme Court; and the only queftion agitated was, Judges
whether
the defendants ivere liable for the amount of the bill reitted
to the
vlaintiff, unde- the. circumflances above flated ?
Coxe and Ingersollinfifted, that the defendants, by mingling
the
intereft of Sce&nkb6usewitli the interef ofothers, fo
to deprive him
of the poffeflion and immediate remedy on Basse Was
Sqyer's bill, had
renuered themfelves liable for the lofs, that had happened,
notwithflanding the general authority given to them, to make remittances
in
good bills of exchange. x AlA. 172, A34. Bull. _N.P. . . Cow
p;4 8o.
42 3
227- 8. 10. Mod. o9.
Ra-wle and Dallas contenjed, that the defendants had acqed
bonca
jde, within the fpirit of their authority; and
had done fo- Schenhhouse precifely as they did for themfelves. Nothing
bught to
be exa~ted from a fa&or than reafonable vigilance and mote
firi6t fidelity.
It is ufual .that there fbould be one faaor, for feveraI merchants
; and
if thevendee of all their goods fail, they muft bear the lois.
xc. Mod.
09. M0olloy 493- 494. CoP.4 . 496. V'r. Abr.7.
-Pricev. -Ralstoni
ant. p.6o. Portenerwould always79be regarded as atruflee for the
according to.their proportions, and ScbenRhouse might make parties,
him account.
The Court left the caufe to the Jury, who found a Verdif fot
the defendants.

alurw

