PhuIldeVWa CouRT o CoMMot1 1'AStS
fendant anfwerable, would be alike wanting in either cafe. 179.
'There feems no difference in point of fairnefs, between' the toydefendant's receiving the money under a judgment of court,,
without fraud or collufion, and his receiving.it from the hands
of Fairchild himfelf. If Fairchildhad received the money on
thefe notes himfelf, and paid it voluntarily to Amory, it could
not be pretended that the plaintiffs, although the money ought
to have been paid to them, could have any recourfe to Imory ;
for, if-it might be the fubje& of controverfy when a man re-ceives a debt, whether the debtor pays it out of his own money
or another's, who would be fafe in receiving money ? The
nature of money, and the nature of commerce, forbid fuch an
enquiry. The payment by Smith, the agent of Fairchild,was in
effe& a payment by Fairchild; and its being made in confequence of a judgment of court, could, at leaft, not weaken the
defendant's right of receiving it.
For thefe reafons, we are of opinion, that the prefent aaion
is not fupportable againft Amry, and confequently that the
verdi& was againft law. The motion for a new trial is there.
Lore granted.*

COWPERTHW&iTE, verfus JoNEs, et. al.

A
A

MOTION for a new trial having been made and ari
gued in this caufe, the PRESIDENT now delivered the
'opinion of the Court, in the following terms.
SHIPPEN, Prefident :-The motion for a new trial in thio
Bec.ufe the
caufe has,been made on feveral grounds :-it.
jury have mifbehaved, in adopting an improfer mode of eftimating the damagei ; by fetting down each- the particular fum be
thoughtjuft, and then dividing the aggregate by the number of
jurymen. 2d. "Becaufe the damages are faid to be exceffive.
And,
3 d. Becaufe the verdi& was ccntrary to the evidence.
4 th. Becaufe it was founded on a miftake in point of law ; the
ury fuppofing that, on paymeift of the damages, the Negro,
(whofe freedom was in queftion) would be emancipated.
New trials are frequently neceffary, for the purpofe of attaining complete juftice ; but the important right of trial by jury
requires they fhould never be granted without folid and fubftantial reafons ; otherwife the province of jurymen might be oftert
4ransferred to the judges, and thy infead of the jury, would
become
In conrequence of this decifion, the caure was removed inte
the Supreme- Court, where the principles- contained in Judge,
Buw.'sr opiiuiov# were alfo recognized and cfkablifhed. See ps$,.

CAsEs ruled -and adjudged in the
179 o . become the real triers of the fa&s. A reafonable doubt,.barely,
that juftice has not been done, efpecially in cafes where the value or importance of he caufe is not great, appears to .me to be
too flender a ground for them. But, whenever it appears with
a reafonable certainty, that a&ual and manifefi injuice is dcne,
or that the jury have proceeded on an evident miftake, either in
point of law, or fa&, or contrary to ftrong evidence, or have
grofsly mifbehaved themfelves, or given extravagant damages;
the Court will always give an opportunity, by a new trial, of rectifying the miftakes of the former jury, and of doing complete
juilice to the parties.
The firft objeffion, as to themanner of the jury collefting
the fenfe of its members, with regard to the quantum of damages, does not appear to us to be well founded, or at all finillar to the cafe of cafting lots for their verdift. In Torts and
other cafes, where there is no afcertained demand, it can feldom
happen that jurymen will, at once, agree upon a precife fum to
be given, in damages ; there will neceffarily arife a variety of
opinions, and mutual conceffions mufl be expe~ed ; a middle
fum may, in'many cafes, be a good rule; and though, it is poffible, this mode may fometimes be abufed by a defigning juryman,
fixing upon an extravagantly high, or low fum, yet unlefs fuch
abufe appears, the fraudulent defigI will not be prefumed.
Thea2d and .3 d obje~ions may be confidered together.
The aftion is brought upon a bond, given to the fheriff,
upon his executing a writ of -omine replegiando. The condition is for profecuting with effe&t, and for making a return, if awarded. The plaintiff difcontinued his fuit-, and no return has
been made ; ofcourfe, if the cafe was diveted of its particular
circum ances, the defendants would be liable for the payment
of damages, equal to the value of the thing replevied. The
queftion then, upon the trial, was; whether the circumiftances
were fuch as, in juftice and equity, ought to difcharge the defendants, from the legal obligation they were under, to return
the Nigro, or pay the price of him.
Many circumftandes were given in evidence; but the mot material one in favour of the defendants,'was, that when the writ of
Homine replegiando was delivered to the fheriff to be executed,
he was inftru~ted by the defendants, or their counfel, not to
take the Negro out of the poffeffion of the mafter ; but to leave
him in his hands, during the difpnte ; that he was -accordingly
left in his poffeffion, and from thence. it was concluded that he,
the mafter, and not the fureties, became refponfible for him.
The evidence upon this point comes from the Iheriff himfelf;
who, by confent, was fworn as a witnefs; he proved the leaving
the Negro in his mailer's houfe, when he executed the writ,
and that he did not either take charge of. him, or deliver him
from.

7AiladdphlRa. COURT Olt COMMON PLEAS.
179o.'
'-v'
him
deliver
to
his
office,
to
Negro
the
brought
mafter
the
wards,
up, and he refufed to take him ; and ordered him to return to
his mafter. There is fome evidende of his being afterwards feen
at his mafter's houfe ; but he was finally abandoned, and has
never fince returned. In the charge to the jury, the Court told
them, that though this was art irregular way of executing the
writ, yet if they were fatisfied, from the evidence, that the Negro was atually left in the hands of the mafter, with his ownconent, and that he had either exprefsly, or impliedly, engaged to.
take charge of the Negro, during the difpute, it would be un:
juft to make the defendants anfwerable for him, contrary to theinafter's own ftipulation and agreement ; and, in that cafe, they
ought to give damages only in -proportion to the a&ual lofs of
fervice the. mafter had fuftained, through the fault of the defendants. The evidence, in my opinion, preponderated in favour of the mafter's acquiefcence in the dire6tions given to the
fheriff;, but the jury appear to have 'thought otherwife ; they
probably confidered, that when the fheriff went to execute the
writ, he did not find the mafter himfelf at home ; but mentioned
his'bufinefs only to his wife ; that there was confequently no exprefs acquiefcence on the part of the mafter; that, as to the
time he kept the Negro, after the fervice of the writ, from
whence an implied acquiefcence might be prefumed, there was
fome uncertainty in the evidence; the fheriff, who fpoke to the
time which had elapfed before he was brought to his office,
expretling himfelf with great caution, and not' being able to
zfcertain itwith any degree of precifion, althoagh he rather
thought it might be about a month or fix weeks; and that notwithftanding what had paffed, he- had a&ually returned, that
he had replevied the Negro. They. mightlikewife have bal.
anced the teftimony of Ifrael Yacoh, with that of 7homas I-arrion ; aithough I own. I fhould have put more reliance on tht
pofitive evidence of the latter, than the negative evidence of the
former. However, as. in this. cafe there was no dire& proof of
an acquiefcenree but the evidence of it arofe from prefumption,
and inferences drawn from the cir.cutofances attending the cafe,
we think itwas properly with the jury to decide upon thofe circumftances, and that their verdi&- cannot be faid to have been
given contrary to that plain evidence, which ought to i.duce us
to fet it afide ; although we mightnot have dxawn. the fame inferences which they did,
As to the fuppofed miftake in the jury, it muff be obferved,
that as the .- lomine replegiando was not profecuted with effect,
the plaintiff having difcontinued it, and the Negro' never. returned, the defendants were legally anfwerable upon their bond;
and as the jury were of opinion) there were no fiuch equitable,
circumtaces,.
H

from his confinement ; but he lays that fome fhor t time after-

8

I CASts ruled and adjpdged in the

1790. circumftances, as ought to difcharge them from their obligation, the price of the Negro was, in that view of the evidence,
the proper meafurd of damages ; which, if accepted by the mafter, will in equity, and perhaps by operation of law too, emancipate the Negro; he having been a party to the Homine relegiando, and a full fatisfa&ion, equal to his value,-made by his
fureties for hiim.

t.'Y-..

RuE, .VerfU$

MITCHELL.

T

HIS was an affion of flander ; for pronouncing the words
fet forth by-the declaration, irthe following form, after
the general introduaion and averments; refpefing the plaintiff's good fameand charafer: "That the defendant publiffied,
then and there, the following falfe, fcandalous, lying; Engilb
wb'rds, of -the plaintiff, in the hearing, &c. to wit, You
(him the faid plaintiff, meaning) have taken a falfe oath, before
fquire Ru.yh, (meaning that the faid plaintiff had committed the
crime of perjury, in a certain oath, bythe faid plaintiff, tlhen lately
taken, before William Rtjh, Efq. one of the Juftices of the
Peace, &c. in and for the City and County of Philadelphia,'ina
caufe before the faid Juftice, depending) and I (himfef the faid
defendant meaning) can prove it. By reafon whereof, &c."
It 'appeared, on the trial of the caufe, that the oath in queftion was voluntarily taken by the plaintiff, in order to fatisfj
the defendant upon a controverted fa&, involved in the fuit
depending before the Juftice, and in which the fituation of the
prcfentparties was reverfed : Mitchell, being then the plaintiff,
and Rue, -the defendant. There was a verdi& for the plaintiff,
damages ; -but the caufe was again brought before
with
the Court, on a motion in arreft of judgment, which was founded on two grounds: if. That the words charged in the declaration, did not import perjury, in a legal acceptation of their
meaning ; and therefore did not, in themfelves, independent of
any injurious confequence to the plaintiff, render the fpeaker
liable to an adfion at law. And, 2d. That the oath does not appear, in the declaration, to have been of a nature, that by
taking it the party could commit the legil crime of perjury.
I..M'Kean. 7. B. in fupport of the motion, obferved, that
ations of flander ought not to be encouraged ; and that they
had hitherto been ftri&ly confined to cafes, which endanger a
man in law ; which exclude him from fociety ; which impair
the eiercife and benefit of his trade or profefllion ; 'or, which
may affe& magiflrates, or other perfons, employed in public
trufls. There is no fpecial damage laid in.the declaration; and
t4

