SUPEETu

- COURT OF Pednfylvania-

249

BARRIERE verfas NAIRAC.

'-UHIS was an a&ion upon a Fromiffory Note, brought by

the plaintiff, claiming to be indorfee of one Vuyton, againft
the defendant, the drawer of the note; in which the following
deblaration was filed.
"hiladelphia County.
Cc
Peter Nairac, late of the County aforefaid, yeoman, was at
tached to anfwer Peter Barriere,indorfee of Vuyton, on a plea of
trefpafs on the cafe, &c. And, whereupon, the faid PeterBarriere, by Peter Stephen Du Ponceau, his attorney, complains, That
whereas- the faid Peter Nairaeron the 8th day of June, in the
year of our Lord one thoufand feven hundred and ninety twoj
at Cape Frangois, to wit, at the County aforefaid, made his certain note in writing, commonly called a Promiffory Note, with
his own proper hand fubfcribed, bearing date the fame day and
year laft aforefaid, in and by 'whichfaid note, he, thefaid Peter
Nairac,promfed to pay to a certain Fayton, the/um of five thou and

five hundred and ninety-three livres, fifteen fcs and eight derniers;
money of the French colony of St. Domingo, eqzal tofix hundred atd
feven dollars andfour cents, lawful money of the United States, whenever he,thefaid Peter Nairac,]fouldbe thereanto requiredfor value
received, by thefaid Peter Nairac, ofthe/aid Vuyton, in arquittanct
and being fo
andfor balance ofaccount with thefuccefion of Fint,

indebted, he the faid Peter Nairac, afterwards, to wit, the day
and year laft aforefaid, at Cape Fran~oie, to wit, at the county
hforefaid, in confideration thereof, upon himfelf affumed and thert
and there to the faid Vuyton faithfully promifed, that he would well
and truly pay to hirm the faid fum of five thoufand five hundred
and ninety-three livres, fifteen fols, eight derniers, of the value
of fix hundred and feven dollars and four cents, whenever hfterwards he ihould be by him thereunto Tequired. And the
faid Peter Barriere in fa& faith, that the faid Fuyton afterwards,
to wit, the day and year laft aforefaid, at Cape Frangois, to wit.
at.the county aforefaid, did require the faid PeterNairac to pay
to him the faid fum of five thoufand five hundred and ninetythree livres, fifteen fols, eight-derniers, being the contents or
the faid Promiffory Note ; and afterwards, to wit, on the 3d1
day of ,Mav, in th year of our Lord one thoufand feven hundred and ninety four, at Baltimore, to wit; at the county aforefaid, the faid Vuyton being unpaid and unfatisfied of the.contents of the faid note, by endorfement under his hand on the
faid note, appointed the contents thereof to be paid to the faid
Pcter Barriere, or to'his order, for value received, whereof the.
faid Peter Nairacthen and there had notice, and the f~id Peter
Nairac afterwards, to wit, the day and year ladt aforefaid, in
confilderation.
I i

1796.

250

CA$Es

ruled and adjudged in the

1796. confideratlori of the faid indorfenient, upon himfelf aflumed and
then and there to the faid Peter Barriere faithfully promifed
v
that he would well and truly pay to him the contents of ,the
faid note, whenever afterwards he fhould be by him thereunto
required."
-Judgment had been obtained for want of a plea; a writ of
inquiry of damages had been thereupon iffued and returned;
and now M. Levy made a motion in arreft of judgment on this
ground, '--that the declaration Lets forth a Promiffory Note payable to Vuyton alone, and not to order ; and, therefore, there is
no authority for the plaintiff to bring the afion in his ownname,
as indorfee. H. B1. 605. 2 Ld. Ray. 1397. Bailey on Bills of
Exchange i. i Penn. Laws (Dall. Edit.) p. 107.
Du Ponceau, admitted the general 'principle of the obje&ion;
but contended, that it -as too late to make it, after the return
of a writ of inquiry, which murt be regarded in the light of a'
general verdi&. If it does not appear to be a note to order,
neither does the contrary appear; and, after a general verdict,
the prefumption will be in favor of the plaintiff's right to fre.
In i Dall.Rep. 194, the cafe was founded on afpecial verdi&, the
defendant not daring to truft it to a general verdi& ; arid in
Doug. 683, the judgment was arrefted becaufe there was no allegation of notice of the proteft, which could not be prefumed
from any fa& ftated'in the declaration. Where, indeed, a title
appears defefive on the face of the record, a verdi& will be
Let afide ; but not where the title is merely defefively fet forth.
4 Burr. 2020. If a fa& muff have been proved on the trial, it
will be prefumed after a general verdi&, even though it be matter of fubftance. Cowvp. 825. Here a fufficient title is proved,
becaufe the plaintiff fues as indorfee eo nomine, and after fItating
the note and indorfement, the defendant became liable ; and as
the ftatute, which makes a defendant liable, in an alion by the
indorfee, exprefsly and exciufively refers to notes made payable
to order or affigns, th6 plaintiff muft, of courfe, have proved
every'thing on the. trial.that the ftatute requires to entitle hirh
to an a on-to wit, that the note was an indorfable note.
The objefion, therefore, is founded on a -mere omiffion, which
is aided by a general verdiG.
.M.'Levy, in reply :-The plaintiff muft bring himfelf within
the a& of Pennfylvania, by f'omething appearing on the record :
, nor
it is neither by the operation of the ifatute of .dni. c.
by the cuftom of merchants, that he is entitled to inftitute an
.aion
There was another ground nientioned, to wit, that the original
parties to the note were both French citiztns, and' the plaintiff merely a collufive indorfee, fo that the French Conful,, and not the State
Courts, bad jurifdiction of the cauf; But this poiant was not at all

argued.

SuvM

CouRT oF ?ennfylvania.

251

a~Eion here in his own name. The a&t, then, only enables an
indorfee to fue, where the note was originally made payable to
order or affigns : That it fhould be fo payable, is the very effence
of the plaintiff's title ; and he canhot recover unlefs it is alledis a
r
ged in the pleadings, as well as proved on the trial. There
material difference between verdits and inquefts, not only in
the folemnity and publicity of the proceedings, but in the requifites to form a decifion. The interlocutory judgment compels an inqueft to find fome damages ; and, therefore, it is not
neceffaryj to prove a note before the inqueft, as it is before a
jury; nor is it indifpenfable to produce in the former, as it would
be in the latter, cafe, an indorfable note. The affirmance of
the judgment, on the return to a writ of inquiry, is in legal
contemplatidn the a& of the court ; but it is done, exparte, at
the inftance of the plaintiff; and it cannot amount to more than
an affirmance of the caufe of a&ion, as it is ftated on the record.
But even regarding the verdi&, on a writ of inquiry, in the
light of a general verdia, it is not neceffarily to be prefumed,
that the Note was made payable to order, or aligns ; nor that
the fa&t was fo proved.' The probatamay be fuppofed to be coextenfive with the allegata, but not more; and there is an obvious diftintion between a fa&, which conflitutes the plaintiff's
only legal title to the a&ion, and a fa( (as in the cafes cited
from Burr. 2020. CoWp. 825.) which merely'localizes the fuit.

If the effence of the plaintiff's title is omitted, nothing can be
prefumed in fupport of a verdi& : No proof at the trial can
make good a declaration, which contains no ground of aiftion
on the face of it. Douglas 683. Tidd's Pr. 614.
M'KEAN, Cbief 7ulice :-It occurred, at once to the Court,
that, if the objeaion was not made too late, it muft prevail.
There is nothing, however, on the record to fhew, that the
parties were both fully heard upon executing the writ of inquiry; and, after an interlocutory judgment, the inqueft were
bound to give fome damages. There is, likewife, in the nature
of the fubje, in reafon, and in law, a material difference between a verdia, which is obtained upon a public trial in open
Court, where counfel are employed to inveftigate the merits,
and Judges to fuperintend the' decifion, of the caufe, -and a
verdiat, which is obtained on a writ of enquiry, iffued exparte, and executed without fuch important aids to enlighten,
and dire& the judgment of the inqueft. In the prefent inftance, in may be remarked, that great injuftice might be dbne to
the cfendant ; for, if the note fhould, by any means, get again
into Vuvtonz's hands, and he fhould fue upon it, could a judgment in favor of the prefent plaintiff be pleaded in bar fo that
adion ?

x796.

252

,1796.
,

CASEs rtiled and adjudged in the

It is a general rule, 'that any exception which may be taken
advantage of on a writ of Error, may, alfo, be taken advahtage of, on a motion in arreft of judgmeni. By the declaration,
it appears, that-the party had not a caufe of aaion; fince the
promiffory note is there ifated to have- been. made payable to
ruyton only, and not to his order. For this defe& of title
(which will be apparent from the record whenever, and wherever, it may be examined) there is no &oubt the judgment would
"$ereverfed on a removal into the High Court of Errors and Appeals : Atid, if it would be fufficient grourid to reverfe, I repeat, that it is a fufficient ground to arreft, the judgment.
Judgment arrefted.
HA.TSHORiiE'S Lefree veifus PATTON.

'F HIS caufe had been tried repeatedly in the city of PR.IaLdelphia ; -but theJury could not, "n an infb3Xce, agree
upon a verdia. Ingerfol., therefore, fuggefte,! to the Court,
that in order to obtain a Jury, whofe minds were unbiaffed by
reports, difcuflions, and converfations, relating to the controveify, the fherifffhould be direfted to return a pannel fror the
the county, exclufive of the city.
Mc'Kean, on the other hand, obferved, that the Court could
not give any fuch direfions without confent of the parties, and
that, confent would not be given.
BY THIE COURT :---Can we dire the fheriff to take a Jury
from any particular part of a county ? Surely not.. There
are no perfons, in fa&, interefted, but the parties and if a legal exception can be eftablifhed againft the whole pinnel, or any
individual Juror, it will be allowed at the proper time.
PrRiT, Executrix verfus W.iLLIs.
NIS was an a&ion of debt, on a bond which was executed
Tupon the 29 th of f7anuary 1789, by the defendant, to
Peletid/t Weljer, the'Teftator, in the penal fun of/goo, with
the following condition fubjoined : ", Whereas the faid Samuel
WValli did,'by his deed, duly executed under his hand and feal,
bearfig even date with thefe prefents, grant, bargain 9nd fell unto
the faid Peldeiab 4/ledr a certain traC of land therein defcrib'ed, containing i 2,625 acres, and contra~ted to make i. clear title:in fee, undeta patent or patents from the State of Pennfyl.
"vanw, for the fhme: And whereas patents for the faid lands have'
T1ot

