SUPREE CoURT OF Pentfylvana.

13.9

the law, to admit the evidence: But, it is clear, that they may
have an adequate redrefs for the wrong which they have fuffered, in a form of a~ion fuited to their cafe.*
The evidence was rejeCked ; and a verdiCk given for the amount of the plaintiff s demand.

December Term, I795.

RspTJBLiCA verfus Ross.

T

HIS was an indiCtment containing fix Counts, which
charged the defendant, in various forms, with forging and
uttering a promiffory note, dated the 2 7th of July 1795, purporting to be a note drawn by ofeph Heflerin favor of. Yohn Smith,
indorfed firif by 7oh;s Smith, and afterwards by Jacob Morgan;
and with fraudulently confpiring with one Lane/ordHerringto
procure Jacob' Morgan to indorfe, the note by means of a forged
letter, purporting to be addreffed by Jofipb He/fler, to Jacob
-M'organ. In the courfe of the trial, the following points of evidence were ruled by the Court.
I. The Attorney General (Ingero1l, who was aflifted by
Lewis and Heatly) offered Jofeph Heifler, the fuppofed drawer
of the note, to prove that his fignature was forged.
The Counfel for the defendant (Rawle, M. Levy, MKeaff
and Dallas) obje6ted on two grounds :- ft. That no man is a
competent witnefs to impeach the validity of a negotiable inftiument to which he has put his name. i ", Rep. 296.
3 Wcodes. 303. 2d. That the witnefs is difqualified on account of his intereft in the cafe ; and though the verdi&t here
could not be given in evidence in a civil aftion, the Court and
Jury would be fure to heargof it. 2 Stra. 728, Leach. C. L.
9. 1o. 5O. 153. Bull. N. P. 288. 9. Leach. C. L. 162.
I04.
28-.
o 'Iod. 192. 3" 1 Stra. 595. 2 Stra. 1o4.
1229

YEATEs, yustice, added, that in the cafe of Sweetzer v. Garber
tried at Nisi Prius, in Cunberland County, when he was Counpel
forone of the parties, a fimilar principle wa decided. The Vendor
had interrupted the Venalee in the enjoyment of the tract of land,
which had been fold;- but the latter was not allowed, to give the

mattei in evidence, in an action brought by the former7 Urerzovw; tila
p~urchafe money.

179-,

C.r-s ruled and adjudged in the

1795. 1229.

1

Hard". 33f. Z Hawk. P. C. 61o. eh. 46.fect. 24,
Leach. C. L. 25. Nor does -his intereft Teft merely on the eventual refponfibility of his fignature ;--it is directly involved
in the convi&ion of the defendant; fince, by two acs of Affembly, he is intitled, upon that event, to a forfeiture; the firil
a& infliding a forfeiture of double the value, one half to go to
the party wronged; and the fecond aa inflifting a penalty of
treble the value, to the ufe of the party wronged. See i rol.
Dall. Edit. P. 5. 64.
The Counfel for the profecution anfwered thefe objeaions,
to the followhig effet. i ft. In the prefent cafe, the indiftment
alledges,.that the name of ofeph Hefler is not fubfcribed to the
note; this is the faCL in controverfy ; and he, who is the only
ppfitive witnefs that can b produced, is offered to difprove the
fignature. But, on the contrary, all the cafes cited, proceed upon the ground, that the witnefs, confeffedly, figned the inflrunient, which he is called upon to difcredit. , zd. 7cfeph Heif
ter is not interefted in the prefenc cafe ; for the record will viot
be evidence in a dvil a~tion, brought againif him as drawer of
the note. Nor is he interefted under the a&s of Affembly that
have been cited, as the forfeitures imppfed by tofe a&ts are
abolifhed by the exifting.code of Penal Lavws. Bull. N. P. 288.
4 Burr. 2251. 3 T. Rep. 36. x Fent. 49. The decifions in
Penrnilvaniahave been uniform in the admiffion of fuch witnefses. i Dall.Rep. r10.62. Rex. v. Chapman & Bates before the
Recorder (Chew) in the Mayor's Court of Philadelphia 7 72
Smith's cafe in the Q-u-rter Seffions of Northampton Qounty.
Sephe'd's cafe before the Recorder (tilc.os) in the Mayor'g
Court:
M'irAl, Chie
flice. Two objections have been taken to;
the competency of *7ofeph He~ier, as a witnefs on the prefene
indictment :-ift. B ecaufe his name'appears to be fubfcribed to
the note, which his evidence is intended to prove a forgery; and
-d. Becaufe he is intcrefted.
Thefiot obfe&tion has been well, and fufficiently, anfwered,
by the remark, that whether the name of the witnefs is really
fubferibed to the note; pr not, is the fa&t in cointroverfy, which
the jury i.:uft decide. If the fignature was allowed to be his,
the objeftion would then, undoubtedly, be fatal.
On thefecond obje~tion, I do not think, that the witnefs is fo
interefted, as to render'him incompetent. The verdi& in the'
prefent cafe could not be received in evidence upon the trial of
a civil a~tion; ncr would the Court permit the counfel to refer
to it. I confefs, ho,-ever, that early in life, I entertained z
,.Efferent opinion on this point, conceiving then, that the weight
of the adjudged cafes was advcrfe to the competency of the witefs, though I thouglt it hard that-the law fqiould be fo. My

oinmo

SUPREME COURT OF PewfyIvania.

24t

opinion has been changed by the modern authorities, which 1795;
give an evident preponderance to the oppofite fcale; and, in
general, the Judges have, of late, been inclined to a more liberal admiffion of teftimony, applying exceptions rather to the
credit, than to the competency, of a witnefs. In the exifting
frate of commercial tranfaffions, indeed, when Promiflbiy
Notes, Bills of Exchange, Bank Checks, and other infiruments,
not authenticated by any fubfcribing witnefs, are daily circulated to an incalculable amount, every principle of policy muft
enforce the neceffity of allowing the perfon, whofe name is
forged, to give evidence of the fa6t.
But, independent of thefe confiderations, we find the law
has been efltablifled by'the repeated decifions of the Courts of
Peijfylvania, as well before, as fince, the Revolution; and, particularly, in a late cafe of Relpublica v. ffrright (which may be
added to thofe cafes that were cited at the bar) determined by
my brother reates and myfelf at Nj/i Prius in the county of
Bicks.
I am, therefore, of opinion that the witnefs ought to be
fworn.
SHIPPEN, Juflce. I concur in the opinion given by the Chief
Juftice, but only for one of the reafons, Which he has afligned.
It appears clearly to my mind, from all the .Ehgli,/h authorities
produced, that in that country, there has been no relaxation of
the rule upon the queftion of intereft, refpeffing the teftimony
of the parties injured, in cafes of Perjury and Forgery; but, on
the contrary, from the cafe in Hardrefs 33 1. down to the cafe
in Leach 287, it has been the general pradice to give a releafe
to the witnefs, in order to render him competent. In poizit of
policy, likewife, there is undoubtedly an inconveniency arifing
from the adoption of either dotrine ; for, the winefs may ,be
biaffed by the refleffion, 'that, although the record on the in,
dictment cannot be given in evidence in a civil affion, yet, that
the convi&ion will be talked of and infenfibly prejudice the
public in his favor.
My acquiefcence, therefore, in the opinion" which has been
juft delivered, is founded entirely on the authority of the cafes
that have been adjudged in this State. Thefe feem to have fettled the law in favor of admitting the teftimony propofed ; and
I am fenfible of the importance of preferving uniformity in our
municipal decifions.
YEA'TES and SMITH, Juflces, aeclared their concurrence
the opinion of the Court, as delivered.by the Chief Juftice.
'II. The Attorney General offered Jacob Morgan, the indorfor
of the note, as a witnefs, admitting tkat the indorfement was
in the hand-writing of Aforgan, and that he was liable for the
amount of the note to Tbanasd
Allibone-, the, holder.
-4h
Tug

-"4"1796.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in die

The counfel for the defendant oppofed the admifflon of thit
contending, that _Morgan was difqualified from proving the note a forgery, having given credit to it, by his indorfement. i T. Rep. 296. 3 T ' Rep. 34.
The counfel for the prof&ution an fwered, that Morgan could
have no intereft, as he confeffed himfelf to be liable to the holder of the Note, whatever might be the iffue of the trial.

Steftimony,

But, BY THE COURT : The obje1ion is not on the ground of

intereft ; but on the impolicy of fuffering a man to difcredit an,
inftrument, to which he has previoufly given credit, by his indorfement. The rule of law feems fettled ; and is, in general,
a good one. However defirous, therefore, ive may be to obtain
the light of this witnefs's evidence, we muft, for that reafon
alone, reje& it.
III. The counfel for the profecution then proved, that acob -M'organ had paid the Note and taken it up (which was done
in Court) and offered him again as a witnefs. The prifoner's
counfel ftill obje~ted; but THE COURT over-ruled the objefion
and the witnefs was fworn.
Verdi&, Guilty on the count for fraudulently procuring
Morgan to endorfe the Note, and Not Guilty on the other c9unt.
of the indiCtment.

March Term, 1796&

RALSTON Aflignee verifus BELL.

THIS

was art a~tion for money had and received, &c.
Tbrought by Ralflon, as affignee of Dewhuift, a bankrupt,.
againft the defendant, who had fold goods of the bankrupt, bt
virtue of an authority from him ; but, it appeared in evidence,.
that no money had been received by the defendant, at the time
of commencing the ation.
The counfel for the defendant (ngefoll, Lewis & Dallas) obje&ed, that, on this evidence, the prefent a&ion could not be
maintairneJ.
The counfel for the plaintiff (Rawle & Milcock,) after fome
remarks, and citing Doug. T3 2, fubmitted to the decided inclinaA Non-fuit.
tion of THE COURT, and fuffered
RUSTON!'S

