SUPREME COURT OF PeftnfjlVania. ,95

a wltnefs at a great diftance inWaf/jington County ; but that neither the witnefs, nor the perfon employed to ferve the fubpxena,
attends.
This would not, in ftri&nefs, be a fufficient
ground for putting off the caufe: But it muft be rememn,
bered, that the defendant, once before, at a confiderable expence,
brought the fame witnefs to Court ;. and when the caufe was
continued, without any fault imputable to him, he took the witnefs's depofition. Having thus, on a former, as well as on the
pcefent, occafion, purfued every preparatory "Rep,which the
law requires, to procure the attendance of the witnefs, we
think it would be unreafonable to take advantage ofany accident,
that may have happened to. the meffenger.

GALBRAITH'S

Leffee VerfUr

SCOTT.*

N this caufe, it appeared that a devife had been made of
certain premifes to A, provided, if he aliens it to any other
perfon than his brother's children, he fhould pay -one fourth parf
of the purchafe money to the teftator's refiduary legatee. The
prefent ejeCment was depending between the devifee, and one
claiming paramount to the devife v and the refiduary legatee,
was offered as a witnefs on behalf of the plaintiff.
It was contended by B;radford and Chambers, for the defendant, th.at the witnefs ought not to be admitted :- And they cited
2 Cun. Law, Diet. 3 Burr. r856. It Mod. 225. 2 If Is.
332. 1 Stra. 507. Bull. A. P. 279. 1 Strt. 575.
On the contrary, Wi/bn and Teates, maihtained the compe•tency of -the Witnefs. Cro. 7j: 460. Hob. 170. Moore. 88r.
I Sall- 283. Bu"I. 279. 286. Tneory of Evid. 225.
Br THE COURT :-The intereft of the refiduary legatee is,
in this cafe, .fo very remote, that we cannot prefume it will have
any bias upon his mind. He muft, therefore, be admitted as
a competent witnefr ; leaving his credibility to the Jury.
CEcIL's LefIee verfits LEBENSTON.*

defendant was tenant for years of the prenifes, for
which theieje&ment was brought, and one Courtney.claimedithe fee. The caufe was not included in the general dj/trinLms -whichJaad ifud fortrials, at this Court of WVzif Prius ; but
a 1peciai djflringas afterwards came up for' it. Neither the
,4fendantt, nor Courtnoy, howeter, had received exprefs or imrHE

* Ruled z Lancaer.Misi P-'.
* Rukd at 2isi Prius.

plied

1786.

