SUPREMP CouRT o' Penn.y1WtM

-271 3. 4.

P. S+4. 55.

0

193

2 Wits. 35 - iDaMl. R-eP 234.

270.252.

For the plaintiff, Morgan urged, tha; the lofs had not hap.
pened from the negligence of the plaintiff ; that the fund on
which the bill had been drawn was virtually Oaid to the defen..
dant himfelf, fince it was paid to his authorifed attorney ;' that,
therefore, the cafe ihould be confidered as if no effets had been
in the hands of the drawee, when no proteft, or notice, is n*ea
ceffary ; Efp. Sx. and that no particular form of notice ought
to be enforced, 'if it appears) as it does appeat, that the defendant had an early knowledge of the fa&-.
BY TiE CouRT :--The fole quefi.bn is 1whether the de,
fendant is bound to pay the bill, under the circiimftances of
this particular cafe-? It was drawn in September 178 1-; it was
prefented, and refufed acceptanle, in 2Vove'iber 178i ; and
yet it was never protelted till Augit/, 1782. This is, in our
,opinion, a fatal delay. The proteft and notice are required
upon principles of convenience; and it is not 'eceffary that
there fhould appear to'be an aaual lofs, in confequence of neg.
lefing them. Though what thall conftitute a reafonable time
for giving notice is a matter to be left to the jury, under the
peculiar fituation of our country ; yet the rule is a general one,
that reafonable notice of protelting a bill fhall be given to the
-drawer. We think the rule has been grofsly violated in the pre.
fent cafe ; and, of courfe, that there ought to be a verdi~t for
the defendant.
VERDICT for the defendant,
KxNOt et Ad

ver/ni

joNrit

-NHIS was art ation. on the tafe for goods lold and delivdried ; and the only queftion agitated upon the trial, was
J
whether the plaintiff was entitled to recover intereft ? It was
proved, -hat at the time of the fale, the.defendant was informed, that it was the courfe of the trade to give fix months credit ;
or, if cafh was paid, to difcount five per cent ; but that punc
tuality, and not intereft, was the obje& of the plaintiffs.
BY T1E COURT :-The eftablifhied courfe of the plaintiffs'
trade is proved ; and, alfo, the knowledge of the -defendant.
It
Decidea at AV A Delaware County, ith October, i7z, be
YEATEs and BR.DFOR?, 7UStiCCS.
t This cafe was decided at Philadelfih;a, Nisi Prius held i t°
.ZTvember, 1792, before the Gnusr jervTcs Sguippm and. 3.A

fore

3'parD

yustices.

179-

CAs s ruled and adjudged in the

194

1792. It appears, therefore, to be a part of their contra&, that inte.
V%.dreft fhould commence, at the expiration of the fix months credit.
Verdi& accordingly.
STILLE verfi" LYNCH.*

T

HIS cafe was an a&ion brought by the indorfee of a

promiffory note, againft the drawer ; and it was contended, on the part of the defendant, that the note, having
been given without any confideration, was fubje& to the fame
equity in the hands of the indorfee, to which itwas fubjea in
the hands of the indorfor, the original payee. i Dall. Rep.
441. To eftablifh the defe& of confideration, the teftimony
of Lynch, the indorfor and original payee (who had fince obtained his certificate as a bankrupt) was offered :
But it was ruled by Ta COURT, that Lynch could not be a
witnefs in this cafe ; as he was offered, in fa&t, to invalidate his
own inflrument. x Term. Rep. 599.
CUPISINO ver'US PE-REZ.

rpHIS was an affion brought againft the Defendant, owner
the Brig Santl/ina Trinidad, for money lent to the
Tof
captain in the Havanna, who gave the plaintiff the following
note:
ccReceived of S. Cupino two hundred dollars for the victualling and expences of the brigantine, which furn I will pay
at firft fight, in the name of the owner Don 7os.de Auguire PeI receive, mortgaging the
rez, who is in Philadelphia;which cafrl
freight, the brigantine and her rigging, as the faid Santiago has
lent me the above fum, for the advantage of the veffel at Has-anna, June 6th, 1788.

(Signed)
n hNarifco Sanchez y Serma."

On her arrival at Philadelphia, the brig was libelled on this
hypothecation (as it was called) in the Addmiralty, and after
hearing, the libel was difmiffed. It appeared, that the captain
had goods, his own property, on board; and that he might have
procured money from the Intendant of the place, without pleding the veffel.
Heatly,
decided at Philadelphia, Nisi Prius, held in
' This cafe was
.Mvemnber 1791, before the CuImF JUSTICZ1 SxIPrPE and Bi.&FORD) .7UStCCS.

