SUPREMAE COURTr OF

APiitifyhAthIl.

233

revoke that judgment. The whole matter was before that Court,
and they determined the prbperty to be Faircbild's. The plaintiff in the attachment Was wholly unconnecSted with the prefent
plaintiffs, and cannot, upon any principle I kno.w, be confidered
as receiving the vmoney to their ufe. The more obvious recourfe for the plaintiff, is to Fairchildhimfelf, or his eftate, it
he has left any ; if not, it is more agreeable to law and juftice,
thatthe plaintiff fhould fuffe" by the default or failure of his
own agent, than that a ftranger, recovering a fair debt in '' regular courfe of Juftice, ihould refund the money to another
itranger, with whom he had no manner of conneftion.
YEATFS, J7u7ice. Whatever irregularity there may have been
in rendering the foreign judgment, the judgment itfelf is conIlu.
five, as the decifion of a competent tribunal, upon a fubje& in litigation. We can have no legitimate power to revife, or annul it.
If it were necefflary to iemark upon the merits of the original
tyanfa&ion, I fhould deem them, under all the circumftances,
in favor of thd defendant. The principles in Cou. :zoo. might
be fairly. applied to the cafe.
SIMIT-, yUflice, concurred, and cited r. H. BLRep. .3i.
A new trial granted.0
WADLEtt et al. verfus CARsoN's Executors,

T

HIS was an a&ion on a Foreign Bill of Exchange, brought

by the indorfee againft the executors of the indorfor, and
.a verdi6t was given for the plaintiff. A motion having beefi
made and argued for a new trial, on the ground that there had
been no proof of notice to the deceafed indorfor, that the bill
was protefted, and of a demand for payment Qn the drawer, the
CHis JUsTiCE delivered the opinion of the Court.
BY THE COURT. The only point before us is, whether due
notice was gihen to the teftator of the demand and non-payment
of the bill. From the peculiar fituation of this country notice.
muft be confidered as a mfitter of fa&C; and, in that way, "it
was left to theJury, in the prefl.1L cafe-with this fingle remar,
that the notice ought to be given as ioon as it is prafficable.
No time, indeed, has been fixed even in the city; but we ihould
to tbia, that fit or feven days would here be tog
difpofed
be
a, delay."
great
The motion for a new trial rejeted."
aaE
Gg
See the tame cafe, declded in thefase way in the .Philaddbia

Court of Conmtn-2leas, art. 1. 51.

Jvdgment. was- -4fterwards rerdered for the dafendant; ani
Om.Cnfrt of .Etss ajd AP.tffirmtd upon a N'rit 9f .7r:sr in the.t

~alr.

1795.

