490o

CAsEs ruled id adjudged in the

.Moy.an, obje&ed, that the motion
came too late, after the caufe had been marked for trial.
But, BY THE COURT :-It is never too late to grant the rule,
when it will not delay the trial.
Rule granted.

1792. tiff refiding in .iew-1ork.
L

LYNH verfius RiSBE'O.

fhould be
award was made that " an order for
A Ngiven
(not mentioning the name)in whofe
on
£5So,

ands, itis faid, that fumwasdepofitedby certain defendants in a
former a~lion, for the ufe of the plaintiff. Ryjberg, the bail of
thofe defendants, undertook in writing, to give an order for the
money, to be received in iNe,-Providence; not mentioning bywhom. This ation was brought for not giving that order, and
one Bunch was ftated in -the declaration, to be the perfon on
whom the order was to be drawn ; andthe plaintiff now offered parol proof to fhew that he was the perfon intended by the
referees. This was objeaed to; and Gilb. For. Rom. and
Bun. 65. were read, to fhew that a blank in a charter-party
could not bafupplied.
" BY Ti CouRT :-The award may be fupplied where it can
'be rendered certain. So was the'cafe of Grierand Grier. 1
Dall Rep. 173. Here are words of reference ; and we think it
may in this cafe alfo be fupplied by parwl proof.
Woon verju' RoAciTP

7-PHIS was a ciiri Facias againft the de& ndant, as gardifhee

JL of twenty-one hogiheads of. flax-feed, the property of
,7ames Elliot. The defence was, that the defendant being a
,captain of a fhip, had received the flax-feed, and figned a bill of
lading, engaging to deliver the flax-Xeed to a confignee in Europe. To prove this Moylan offiered a bill of lading not figned,
but annexed to an affidavit by Roach, fetting forth that it was a
copy of one figned, and delivered- to the confgnee, before the attachment wa laid. The evidence was obje&ed to : And by
M'KEAN, Chief gty/lice r-This is not the beft evidence; and,
therefore, it cannot be admitted..
BRADFORD, ifflice:-The paper olered in evidence is not a
bill of lading ; but it is ofered as a copy, and to prove that a bill
of lading, of the fame tenor and date, was executed., If the
be
in[Iiument itfelf were producedproof of the fignature would
p0raz

