isrs rued and adjudged in the

4

1791. the entries were made, -nor that it was his bible. Befides, itwas
v-'%. mutilated evidence, and the book itfelf ought to have been pro.

duced.
THE COURT were clear, on thefrfl point, that the plaintiff
was a good witnefs to prove the death of the fabfcribing witnefs,
in order to let in evidence of the handwriting; and feemed to
confider it as the common pra"ice*
On the econd point, THE CHIEF JUSTICE obferved, that the
rules of evidence, with regard to pedigree, were by no means
icft&; and that the CouRT were inclined to think, that the evidence admitted by the judge who tried the caufe, was fufficient
in fuch a cafe.
SHIPPEN, uftice : It muff not be underftood, that ex parte
affidavits taken in other Rlates, are admiffible evidence in cafes
of pedigree. I concur in the opinion of the Court, upon the
peculiar circumftances of the cafe, and the produ&ion of the paper itfelf. The general principle, attempted to be inferred by
th defendant counfel, muft not be confidered as involved in
this decifion.
Rule dircharged

September Term, 1791.
RESPUBLCA Terus LACAZE. et. a.

T fkerling,

IS was an a&ion of debt in the debet et deinetfor£4 ooo

equal to £. 6,666. 13. 8. currency, brought in
the name of te commonwealth for the ufe of Lewis Lanoix1
againft Jamer Lacaze, Michae Mallet, and John Rofi, Upon a
writing figned by the defendants, dated the 4 th of Novem~ber
I783,
andoftaken
in the orCourt
of Admiralty
of Pennfylvania,
the
nature
a caution,
in
ftipulation.
The information
(which:
the whole cae) was in the following words :
Mates
" Piladelphia County ft
James Lacaze, Michael M allet and Jfohn Rqfr, all late of thecity of Philadephid in the faid county, merchant were fummoned to anfwer the commonwealth of Pennfylvanaain a plea,
that
SSee r Blac Rep. u53 , wherethe plant hifefwa eeamicnd;
ud God&. r93. 326. Shavwr 363.

I"RE

COURT OF Pennflva

nnt.

i

9

that they render to the faid 'commonwealth for the ufe of Lewis 179?.
Lanoix, the fum of fix thoufand fix hundred and fixty-fix pounds
thirteen fhillings and eight pence, which to the aid commonwealth they owe and unjuftly detain &c. And thereupon Wil.
liam BradferdJun.Attorney General of the faid commonwealth,
on behalf of the aid commonwealth, giveth the Court here to
underftand and be informed, that whereas on the twenty-fourth
day of O ober, in the .year of our Lord 1783, the faid games
Lacaze'and Michael Mallet exhibited their bill to the honorable
Francis Hoplinfon Efq. Judge of the Court of Admiralty for the
ifate of Pennfylvania, etting forth, that by the procefs of the
fame court five barrels of filvercoin, amounting to five thoufan4
two hundred and eighty-five French crowns, and one thoufand
five hundred and eighty ddilarsi then lately' before faved from
the wreck of the brigantine Count Durant, whereof Anthony
Fourne was commander (and upon whofe fuit or libel in the
fame court depending the laid procefs had iffuied) had been taken
into the Luftody*of the marlhall of the faid court, and that the
faid filver coin was the property of and did belong to Lewis
Lanax, merchant refiding in Bourdeaux, and that they, the aid
Yames Lacaze and Michael Mallet, then were the agents of the
Laid Lewis and did tranfa& the bufinefs of the faid Lewir, and
that the fame coin ought to be deliverMd into the hands of them,
the aid James Lacaze and Michael Mallet, in order that the
fame might be forthwith remitted to the Laid LewisLanoix: And
whereas upon the laid bill of them, the aid games Lacaze and
Michael Mallet, the faidjudge did order and decree, that the
faid filver coin (after dedu&ing therefrom all colts and charges
for aving the.fame from the wreck aforefaid and profecuting
-the feveral claims, in the faid court againft it) fhould be, delivered into the hands of the aid games Lacazc, and Micbael
Mallet, for and on account of the faid Lewis Lanoix, or tha
right owner thereof, in order that the fame might be forthwith
remitted to the aid Lewis, agreeably to the tenor of the faid
bill, they the Laid _7ames -Laraze and Michael Mallet, giving
caution for the performance of the tru.t repofed in them, agreeably to the pra&ice and ufage of the aid court, and the laws of
this commonwealth: V! confideration whereof, the aid James
Lacazo and Michad Mallet and Jfohn Rofi afterwards, to wit. on
the fourth day of November 1783, at the aid county, appeared.
lpefore the faid Francis Hopkinfon Efq. Judge of the Court of
Admiralty as aforefaid, and then and thero flipulated and acknowledged themfelves to owe and be indebted to the Laid commonwealth, in thd ium of L 4000 fterling money aforefaid (equal
in value to the (um of £.6666. - x" 8 aforefaid) to be "paid.to
the Laid commonwealth, in-cafe the faid games Lacaze and Mi.i
shael Malltlt did Pot wcll and faithfully perform the truft in
them

Asns nuled and adjudged in the

i $

1791. -them repotted, refpeling the faid filvei coin, or fhould fail fo
indemnify the faid"judge and the officers of the faid court
againit all perfons lawfully claiming the fame, and againft the
claims of him the faid Lewis Lanoix. And the faid Attorney General further giveth the court here to' underiland and
be informed, that the faid Marfhall afterwards, to wit. on the 6th
day of November in the fame ycai by virtue of the writ of the
fame court, (commanding him the faid marfhall, after dedu&f.
ing all colts and charges for'the faring the laid filver coin from
the wreck aforefaid, and profecuting the feveral -claims againft
it in the faid court, to pay over and deliver the remainder of the
taid five cafks of filver coin to the Laid games Lacaze and Michad Mallet, to be by them remitted forthwith to the faid Le~i'v
,Lano;ii)-did deliver and pay over to the faid games Lagaze an&
Michael Mallet, one thoufand five hundred and eighty dollars,.
and fix thoufand three hundred and thirty French crowns. And
the faid attorney general further faith, that the faid games
racaze and .MirhadMallct, their duty in this behalf not regarding, did not well and faithfully perform the truft in them repofed, refpeifing the laid filver coin, and did not, nor did either of
them, remit the laid filver coin to th, Laid Lewis Lanoix, but
the fame to-remit, pay, or deliver, to the aid Lewis, hitherto have
entirely negle&ed and refufed. - By reafon whereof a&iotl hath
accrued to the aid commonwealth to demand and have of the
faiii Jdmes Lacaze Michael Mallet and John.Ros, the f~id funi
of LTooo fterling money, which, on the fame 3d day oP November, were and ill are of the value-of £6666. 13. 8. Neverthelefs the laid James Lacaze -Michad-Malletand John Rofs, although
often requeited, to wit. on the ift day of July, in'the year of
our lord 1786, at the county aforefaid, the faid fum of C4ooo"
fierling money aforefaid, or the Lum of C,666. 13. 8, eq al in
value thereto, to the faid 'commonwealth have not paid; but the
fame to pay hitherto have, and fRill do refufe to pay, to the damage of the faid commonwealth ,Soo: And thereof the faid
Attorney General informs the Court here; and prays judgment
againft the aid James Lacaze Michael Mallet and John Rofs,.
for th& caufe aforefaid.
JOHN, DoE,
" Pledges
RICHARD RoE,
Profecutors.
The defendants pleaded ift Payment, 2d Nil debent; and the
iffues were tried-in September term laft, when a verdiO: was
found in favor of the plaintiff, for the fum of C3,768. 9. 7. A
motion was, thereupon, made in arreft of judgment, and for a
new trial ; which was argued in July term 1791, by Dui Pon'eau, Coxe, Bradford, and Sergeant for the Plaintiff; and by
.Moylan, Mfiin, Ingerfoll Randolp, and Le'wis for the De-.
fendants.

-

The

Sjpt;rMr CouRTr oF Pennfylvania.

121

The CHrIE JUsTxcE ifow delivered the unanimous opinion 1791.
of the Court.
M'KEAN, Chie f ujiice. The defendants have moved, that
the judgment rendered on the verdi& in this caufe, fhould bQ
flayed on feven grounds ; and they have afigned one ground,
upon which a new trial ought to be granted.
A motion for a new trial ihould not be made, after a motion

in arreft of judgment, unlefs in cafes where the party had no
knowledge of the fa&, at the time of moving in arreft of judgment. For, by moving in arreft of judgment, you tacitly admit

the verdia is good. 2 Salk. 647. Bull. N. P. 326. and i Burr.
334. This is alfo fettled by the 3 2d printed rules of this Court;
by which it is ordered, that no motion for a new trial fhall be
made, after a motion in arreft of judgment. I fhall, therefore,
in the &rft place, confider the reafon offered for a new trial.
It has been faid, that the verdi& was againif evidence, becaufe
the Jury allowed intereft on the fum demanded, £2663 5 2,
for two years and nine months more than they ought to have
allowed, to wit, from the

4

th of November, 1783, the date of

the writing on which the acion is brought, until the 23 d of
Auguli, 1786, when the writ was ferved ; alledging that Lewi:
Lanoix, for whofe ufe the information is exhibited, had by his
own orders fufpended the remiffion of the monet to him during
that period.
This allegation is made on the depofition of 7ohn Sabloniere,
who faid, that Mr. James Lacaze arrived at Bourdeaux, in
.Marb, 1784, and in a converfation with Lewir Lanoix, on
the 9 th of April, he, Mr. Lanoix, agreed to keep the bills of
exchange, drawn by Lacaze and Mallet, upon Lacaze & Sons,
for the fum due, and defired Mr. James Lacaze to write to
Mr. Mallet, his partner in Philadelphia, not to remit the flver5
which was done ; and it did not appear in evidence, that any
further demand was made until the 23 d of Augzt/, r786, the.
day on which the writ in this caufe was ferved.
Upon this evidence, the Jury may have concluded, that Mr.
Lanoix only excufed the remittance of the filver during this
time, merely as an indulgence to Lacaze and 1Iallet, and from
an expe&ation that Lacaze & Sons would honor tie bills;
but being difappoiqted, he ought to have inrereft for the money,
as if no fuch indulgence had been granted; that the forbearance was at the inflance of 7ames Lacaze, 'nd to oblige him,
'heJury, perhaps,
and that Lanoix fhould not be a lofer by it.
it would have
time
the
for
intereft
allowed
have
fhould not
reafonably t'aken to remit the filver from Philadelphia to Bourdeaux, for Mr. Lanoix. Be this as it may, it was a, fa& properly within the province of the Jury ; it was their duty to confider arid determine it ; and, in fuch cafes, tho' legal intereftthiis

122

f

9
-

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

i . the ufual meafure of damages, for delaying payment, the Court
cannot interfere. I am, therefore, of opinion, that a new trial
ought not to be granted.
With refpe&t to the reafons in -arreft of, judgment, I think
they may be comprized within three heads.
if. That it does not appear on the record, that .the original
caufe, concerning the five cafks of filver, was within the jurifdifion of the Court of Admiralty.
2d. That if it was not, A4nthony Fournie, mafter of the brigantine Count Durant, had no right, by the Common Law, to
take fuch a writing, as the one now fued, from the defendants.
3 d. That, if fuch a writing could be taken by the Common
Law, yet an a&ion of debt upon it could not be maintained.
ift. As to the fiif : It is recited in the information, by the
Attorney General, that the libel ih the Court of Admiralty was
concerniiyg five barrels of fiyver, faved from the wreck of the
brigantine Count Durant, and put into the cuftody of the Marfhall, and nothing more, except that falage was decreed to
.4nthoxy Fournie, for faving it.
Shipwreck- is a matter of revenue. In a legal wreck, the
goods muft come on Ihore. Jetfam, ftotfam and ligan, are not
matters -of revenue, and arecognizable in the Admiralty; but
wreck is-determinable by -the Common Law. i Blac4/. Comm.
2,90 , 3 Ibid. 16o. 5 Co. xo6. 107. 6 Vin. ;i2 pl. S.
It is not alledged, that the filver was Jetfam, fotfam or ligan,
or that the caufe arofe upon the high feas, or within the Admiralty, or Makitime jurifdi&ioii ; but, if we travel out of the record, the contrary appeared from the'evidence ; that the mafter
(_Fournie) had figned a bill of lading for it ; that it was never
out of his cuftody ; that he carried it on fhore -at Lezwi/own, in
.he Ddaware ftate, and from thence to Phitade6lhia,by land. z
Vent. 3 oB. Carth. 423. D./al. Rep. So. All the procVedings of
a Court, having no jurifdiffion, are void. i Salk. 2ox, From
which it rather feems, that thi Court of Admiralty had no jurifdi&ion of the original caufe, from any allegation, averment,
or other matter, appearing in the information ; and that' this
writing would not warrant a- fuit in that Court. tut, as to this,
it is not,neceffary to give a pofitive opinion.
2d."I will then confider the fecond point, whether Fournie
,could take this writing by the common law from the defendants?
Although a Court of Admiralty cannot take a recognizance,
which is a bond, or obligation, of record (that Court not being a
Court of record, nor the Judge, a Judge of record. 6 Vin.
Abr. 5o. letter L p. i;) yet, it can take a. caution or ftipulation; which is ufually for appearance, or to perform a d ecree,
&c. and-is in nature of aorecognizance, It appears, that. the
proceedings

SUPREME COURT 03 Pe11nJY1anaproceedings in the Admiralty were without the participation or .791 ,
knowledge of Lewis Lanoix; that no coercion was ufed by the % O "
Court ; that all wasvoluntary, and not only by confent, but on the
application, of the-defendants. There is no pofitive law for declaring fuch a writing void; ,it was not given for any thing againft good morals, or illegal, but for a meritorious valuable confideration, to wit, a fum of money delivered in fpecie, and for an.
honeft purpofe. If the taking this writing in the Court cannot
give it any additional fan&ion, fo, on the other hand, it cannot
deftroy or prejudice its legal operation. Though void as ajIipulation, it is good as a contraa ; juft as it was determined in the
cafe of A/cue virfus Hollingfworth, Cro. Fl. $44- that an infirument, which was void a a Jflatute-,fape, was yet good as an
obligation; and the cafe in 2 &range, x x37 favors tl~is opinion.
For thefe reafons, I think, this tranfa&ion may be confidered
as done out of Court ; and that it is good and binding on the
parties by the Common Law.
3 d. The next and principal queffion is, whether the prefent
information in debt upon this writing is maintainable ?
It has not been doubted, but that a fpecial ajjimpfit would lie
in this cafe ; but it has been denied, that an adtion of debt will

lie.
A debt is a fum of money due by expreft agreement; either in
writing, or by parol, where the quantity is fixed, and 'does not
depend on future calculation ;-the non-payment or non.performance is an injury, for which an a&ion of debt may be brought.
3 Blac?/. 153. Fitzh. N. B. 145. x Lil/. Abr. 554. C.
2 Bac. Air. 13. And it is held in 6 Pad. 1-29. that a meritorious valuable confideration will raife a debt. If A gives money to B, to buy wares, or any other thing for him, and B
does not buy them, debt will lie for the money. 7 Fin.Abr.
title" debt" (K) p1. 26. for, by the delivery of the money, as it
cannot be known again, the property is altered, and a duty
arifes.
Debts, for which an aaion of debt may be br3ught at Common Law, may be claffed under four generalheads :
i ft. Judgments obtained in a Court of record on a fuit.
2d. Specialties acknowledged to be entered of record, as a recognizance, flatutes merchant, or ftaple, or fuch like.
3 d. Specialties indentedor not indented.
4 th. Contra&s without fpecialties, eithet exprefr, or implied..
'The prefent a&ion comes under the laft head, and is founded on arexprfi contra& in writing, whereby in confideration.
of five barrels of flver coin, delivered by quthonv Fournie, by
the advice of the Court of Admiralty, to the defendants, they
promife andengage taremiH them to Lewis Lanoig t Bouti==x
q%

124

179.

t

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in tiw

deaux, or to pay to the Commonwealth £4,000 fterling, for his

ufe. The writing is in the form of a recognizance, taken as a
flipulation in the Admiralty, but deriving no advantage or preju-dice tlherefrom : It is a legal, fair and honeft contra&, grounded upon a meritorious and valuable confideration ; and although
Mr. Rofs is only a furety (and I am forry he is fuch) yet, iinlefs
lie had entered into the writing, .he contra& might not have
been made ; he has become a party in it, and is refponfible for
the performance, equally with the other defendants. The fum
demanded is fixed and certain; there was a duty certain, which
has'not been performed, for which an a&ion of debt lies. And,
although I fhould have preferred an a&ion of fpecial afumpt
yet, I conceive an a&ion of debt is maintainable.
'TheCommQnwealth muft be confidered
as a truftee forLewis
Lanoix, on fhe authority of
4 Burr..211o.

i Vern. 439.

x Veze,. 453-

The verdi& has been taken in the manner long pra&.ifed in
Peimfylvania, though peculiar to it, and is in confequence of an
a& of AflTembly.
Upon the whole, the Court. unanimoufly agree,. that the
judgmefit be entered for the plaintiff.
Judgment for the Plaintiff.*

Aril Term, 1791.

REsPUcLICA verfius RonERTs.

T

HIS was an indi&lilent for Rdultery, which had been
.

found in the Q9arterSeflions, of Bucks County. The woman was married but the indidment did- not ftate the defendant'to be fo; and, indeed, the contrary was allowed, in the
aourfe of the argument, to be the fa&
The queftion brought
before this Court was, whether in fuch circumftances, the defendant would be convi&ed and fentetxced for adultery, under
the a& of Aiembly ? T 1ol. p' 47- Dal Edit. the. -Jarney
_.t.The defendants.brought a Writ of Errot;,but) on tljd 11th

July, '793, the Judges of the High Court of Errors andAliApeals,.

'nanimeuilr

fiirined the Judgment of the Supreme Court.

