98
1788.
%o'

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

.4fter hearing Counfel oft botl fides) and tating time to advife upon the fubje&, THE COURT were of opinion, that the
foreign attachment ought to be quafhed ; and, accordingly,
-made
The rule abfolute.*

May Seffions,

17 8 8.

MC CURDY Verfus POTTS, de al.*
HIS was an i&ion of Trefpafs vi et armis for cutting the
T
plaintiff's trees; to which the defendant pleaded non cuL
with leave to juftify,, &r. The title to the premifes was' the
fubje& of controverfy ; an'd the Chief Juftice delivered the following charge to the Jury.
M'KEAN, Cbief .J7qice:-It is elffential to private juftice
and to public peace and order, that the rules of property, as ell
as of the other obje~ls of fociety, fhould be fettled and promulged. Wretbhed, indeed, is the condition of that people,
where the law is either uncertain, or unknown.
In the prefent caufe, it appears, that, in the year 1767, Hugk
McCurdy, the plaintiff, having obtained a location for 206
acres, defired that a furvey might be made by the.proper officer ,
who, accordingly, furveycd the tra& in queftion, amounting! to
157 tcres. On this tra6, the plaintiff a&ually entered, and
enjoyed, for a length of time, a peaceable poffeffion. He alfo
improved it, by firft ercffing a Cabbin, then a.Houfe ; and afterward a Barn ; and byclearing and cultivating 2 acres of meado.w, 40 acres of arable land, and an Orchard with 40 or 5o
Apple Trees in it. The proof of thefe fa6s is certainly fufficient to maintain an aaion of 'Trcfpafs ; for, the plaintiff had
not
* This minute was furnifhed by M. Coultburst, one of the
plaintiff's Counfel; ind though I cannot Rlate at large the argument
at the Bar, nor the reafons of the Judgmient, the point appeared to deferve notice, even in this imperfe& form. The authorities cited for
the plaintiffi ere 2 Stra. 877- 3 -41h. 409. 2 Fez- 489. Ariw. Lond;

256.

268. 253. 4. 6.-x Lord. Ray, S6.

*Decidcd at arlisek .Nii Pr-ius.-

SUPREME COURT OF

not only an

PenInfylvana.

99

&ual, but a legal poffeffion ; anA on payment of 1788.

the purchafe money to the former proprietaries, his legal title to

the premifes would have been perfe&ed.
For the defendant, however, it is ftatedj that he difcovered
the tra&, bf which the plaintiff's furvey is a part, in the year
1755 ; that at feveral times he ereCted a Cabbin, a Mill, and a
Lime-Kyln upon it; that he cleared fome of the land, and that he
made a Zonfentable line with a neighbour. But thefe circumflances the Court declare, will not conflitute a legal title. Even
in a ftate of nature they would confer no right to the I57 acres,.
within' the plaintiffs furvey ; for, on any part of thofe acres, it
is not pretended, that the defendant has ever exercifed any a& of
induftry, or that he has even maintained a pedis pojer. He
made no inclofure, he cut no timber ; nor, in Ihort, in any
form appropriated, or fet apart, the promifes in queflion, from
the common mafs of the circumiacent land. To affert, therefore, that he has acquired an exclufive title, is not lefs extravagant, than to fuppofe, that a whole river becomes the property
of him who takes a pitcher of water out of it ; or that no other:
man is afterwards entitled to ufe any part of the water, which.
may happen again to fall from the pitcher into the ftream. For,
let me afk, what is the definition of an improvement ? Has it
no quality, or form ? And is the quantity of land attache.d to it
eircumfcribed by no limits ? To thefe enquiries I have been
unable to obtain a fatisfaaory anfwer.
The ownersof the foil of Pennfyltvaia were, originally, the
proprietarids-; and under their authority agents were appointez
to make fales and grants of particular tracts. If two or three
perfons claimed the fame land, the agent had, in ftri&nefs, a
power to grant it to which of the claimants he pleafed; but if
one of them had feated himfelf on the land, and by his own labour and money, had improved its valtue,'the proprietaries and
their agent always felt an equitable obligation to make the grant
in favor of fuch poffeffor If, however, the proprietaries who
are the owners of it fliould not chufe to do fo, the Court cannot
interfere to controul, or regulate, the exercife of their undoubted territorial right. An attempt of that kind, would fhake the
very foundations of property ; and render a verdi&, or judgment,
not a folemn determination on evidence and law, but an inftrument of favour to the party, for whom the Court or Jury fhould
entertain a predilection. But we rniit remember, that we are
bound by an oath, to adminifter juftice according to the laws
Verdi& for the PlaixtiUl
without partiality, or prejudice.

