&tPItEMP,CoVTt~ OF

Pennj Avantzr.

been done felonioufly, &c. yet the technical and efrential epithers
are not applied to the lriking, kicking, bru/iing and knocking,
which muff have been the efficient caufe of the death of the perfkn killed, and not the a/fault.
The Attorney General, Ingerfoll, obferved, that he did not
confider the firft exception material ; but he declined any argument on the fubje&, as he was convinced the fecond exception
nuft be fatal.
BY THE COURT :-Let thejudgmentbe reverfed.*

BURRALL

verfus Du BLOIS.

T

NIS cajufe was tried and a general verdi& given for the
plaintiff, on the I ith of September. On the.isth of September, Lewis made a motion, in arreft of judgment, becaufe,
a general verdi& was taken, and the afion, clearly, would only
be maintained on one of the counts in the declaration.
Dallascontended, that the motion was made too late, and
cited 3 T-. Rep. 623. Doug.
446. 1 T. Rep. 227. 4 Burr.
2526. 2 Woodefon 243, to fhew, in the computation of.time,
when the day on which an a& is done, fhall be deemed inclufive.
He, alfo, moved to be allowed to enter the verdi& on the firil
count in the declaration, agreeably to the authority in 4 Burr'.
1235.
BY THE COURT :-The day on which the verdit was given
fhould be reckoned inclufive ; and, therefore, the motion in
araeft of judgment has been made too late.
'But we haveno doubt, that it is in our power to grant the
plaintiffpermiffion to enter the verdit on the proper count;
and that it ought, in this cafe, to be granted.
The motion in arreft of judgment was accordingly difmiffeds
and the verdiat entered on the firft couint.t
PNN'S

This indictment was tried fhortly before the act paffed (3 JOtLDall. Edit.) by which the crime was divided intomurder
of the first degree, punifhable by death; and murder of the lecond
degrce, piinilhable by imprifonment at hard labour. Froin the facts
reported by the judge, who prefided on the trial, Honevrnan's offence

p.

.

would clearly have fallen under the latter division.

-

"' The Court waited $till the laft hour of the Term for the defendants' counfel, whu was indifpofed ; but Laid, that in a cafe im
which they were fo perledtly fatisfiod, they could not keep it longer
under advifement.,

1795.!

