PRI~jt7A'

Cdttr

o1v Pen 15Awfltd

tations, muft be fufficient to preven t his recovering, or defalking the amount. THE COURT below, however, admitted the i
evidence, upon which a verdia was found in favor of the defendant for a balarce but the plaintiff took a Bill of Exception&
to the decifion, and brought the prefent Writ-of Error to try iti
talidity.
Ingerfill, for the Defendant in Error, contended that the tafe
of a Fador was not within the a& of limitatiolis (i vol. Dalh
.Edit.p. 95.) There may be fome doubt, whether the exception
in the a& embraces accounts between merchants, which are
not a proper foundation for an aaion of accotnt rendeel but 4c.,
couwt render is the appropriate remedy for a pr,ncipa againft bis
; and, copfequently, the pfeent cafe in
.
factor, 3 Woodef 83
as well as the terms1 of the emdepprinciple
the
within
clearly
!ion. In i Eq. Abr. a. pl. 6. there is an auth6rity nearly iri
point; articles furnifhed being allowed, undef fimilar circum-z
fances, as a fet-off agalnf4 a Bond ; the Coirt declaring that-a
difcount was natural juftice hiiall cafes ; and the Legiflature of
thd
opinion' when
a fimilar
have entertained
muft
Pennfyvvatia
p. 4'5
t Vol..Dali..Edit.
was paflikd.
defalcation
general a& for
the
tY
implicitly,
Condy, for the Plaintiff in Error, fulnnitted,
the:
of
circtrmftances
the
under
whether,
o piniorn of the Court,
cafe, the defendant's claima on the account was barred : but ig
the opinion, was in the affirmative j he remarkb-A1 that the Jury'
by finding a verdi& againf the plaintiff, had eftablifhed the accounts barred, as a fubftantive demand (not merely as a fet-off
according to the cafe in i Eq...Ar. 8. p1. 6.) and, confeqtuerly
the verdi~c, and the judgmetit upon it, were erroneous.
But THE COURT were, xfnanimoufiy 1 of opinion, that the ac-.
counts, on which the fet-off had been claimed, were not wjthirr
the aa of Limitations ; mind that the- Comnon Pleas had done
the defendant.
right in admitting th6 eiilenee offered byJudgment
aftrmedi

A

'.gErSTU21iT Ca. La. had iffued to tile Sheiffof Laii-"
coutsca ier, upoq vhich the party was arrefted, and the too
ney paid. Bu the Sheriffpaidt ovet to the nominal, ieosead.
Bfthe reil, plaintiff, thoztheinndorfement for the ufea &e. wa
terms
t *afHa/lowell obtaned a rule to reA the
on the rt
wh an attach.trn the Tfl. Ca. a. or to fiew caufe this d ee
eat Thould not iffue aga.niL t&de heriff; and now, upon proof
of fervice of the rul, he moved. that the attachment fhould b
awarded.
. BY THE Cquvri.;Let the attachment iffuj, returnable the
JA
fait day of the wEm.

1

