Ir4
790.
V

Cag s ruled and adjudged in the

By Tu. COURT :-It id an extraordinary obje&ion, to pre
ceed from the defendant, that he had notice before an execu.
tion iffued againft him. The meafure was a liberal and indulgent
one ; and ought not to be difcountenanced if in general prac.
tice.
Judgment affirmed.
OvEPsrsuRs of Coventry verfus CuMmU4Gs.

C

ERTIORARI to remove the record of proceedings before
Juftice Bartholomew, to which the following return was
made : cc On hearing the matters between the parties, I gave
judgm-nt for plaintiffs for a debt Of 38f. ith xTfi coRs: 301
of which was money faid defendant fued plaintiffs for, before
Daniel Gr~ith, Efq. on account of lohn Ralflon, E q. and felf,
which thing he had no orders from us to do , and the remainder
8. beig the cofts the plaintiffs paid on faid alion. Execution
granted for faid debt and cofts to the plaintiffs ; and the cofis
paid by them."
Lewis auid Todd excepted to the judgment, that Juffice Bar.
tholemew had undertaken to decide upon a matter, which had
previoufly been decided by another Juftice.
IBradford and Serjeant obje&ed to go into the merits of the
care.'
BY THE COURT :-If
the return is falfe, the Juftice is liable
to an aaion, at the inflance of the injured party : If he has
a&ed contrary tojuftice, an information will be granted againft
him. But in the prefent ftate of the Vufinefs (though we highly
difapprove of the interference of a Juftice in any matter previoufly decided-by another Juftice) we muff take the cafe as diated-upon the return, without travelling into the merits of the oTiginal queftion.
Judgment affirmed.
VANSCIVER vePfus BOLTON.

C

ERTIORARI to remove the judgment of a Julice of the
,
Peace. As caufe for reverfing the judgment, Levy fhewcd, by the Defendant's affidavit, that the debt had been proved
before the Juftice by the Plaintiff's oath alone. Howell objected, that this was not fufficient, as the Plaintiff might have
fworn to his books ; and, at all events, the exception to the
,udgment cannot be fupported by the mere fhewing of the Defendant' ffidavit.

