CAM rued.and 4a~ge& in th,
1791.

April Term, 1 79 i.

DOUGLAss's Leffee Verfs

SANDERSOq.

N the trial of this caufe, before Judge BRYAx, at Nii

- Prius, in Cunberland, in Novenber 179o, the Plaintiff
offered in evidence a deed, and to prove its execution by ihe
hand writing of one of the witneffes, who was dead. The other
witnefs was faid to be dead alfo ; and, to prove this, they offered the Plaintiff himfelf, to teftify that the witnefs had formerly lived in Philndefphia, that he had made enquiries for him, and
heard he was dead. 'his teftimony was objeted to ; but oin
argument he was admitted, the Judge referving the point.
The Plaintiff then offered a leaf, laid to be cut out of a family bible, on which were written the names of the children of
one M'Micbael,under whom tht leffor of the plaintiff claimed;
with the times of their refpe&ive births; which leaf was annexed
to a notarial certificate from another State, fetting forth, that
the fame was cut out of thebible, in his, theNotary's, prefence,
and that the fame was fworn before him, to be the property,
and family bible, of the faid M';Michael, then deceafed. To
this exception was alfo taken ; but the evidence was, admitted,
and the point in like manner referved.
On the return of the Poflea, Bradford obtained a rule to fhew
caufe why there fhoud not be a new trial, and at April terni
x79i, the caufe was argued.
Bradford, for the deferdant, contended, that the evidence
ought not to have been admitted in either cafe. Upon thefrif
point, he faid, the rule was, that .the fubfcribing witnefs muft
e produced, unlefs proofb made that he is dead or cannot be
found. That this proof muft be by difinterefied Witneffes;
That a party might be admittea in cafe of neceffity, as where 2.
writing had been loft., and in fimilar. cafes; yet this was only
ex neceftate. That he fa& in queltion was capable of proof
by various means; by the regifter of his burial; by perfons acquainted with'him,; by general report teftified by difinterefted
witneffes. 'That in this cafe ftri~t proof was. required. The
rule laid down in 2 Atk. 48. Henly v. Phihps, is, that the court
would not require a certificate of ihe funeral, yet ther muff be
evidence of his death; ftri& proof if he refided abroad, but
fighter evidehce if he refided in England. That it was analogous

Suir:m~COUR

W

W51LWX7

z

gons to depofitions, and there proof by other wizlmfsioughit to 179.
be given of the deponent's death. That all the cafes tequired %'YN*
proolwhichmuft be underftood, by difinterefted witneffes. i W.
445. 2 Stra. 920. Gilb. For;Rom. 14o. Sbowa. 36.3.
Upon thefecond point, he admitted, thatflighter evidence was
required of pedigree than of many other things, fuch as general
report, declarations of parents after their death, &c. but he urged that this general report muft be proved on oath before the,
Court; and that the declaration of parents who could be produg
ced and fworn, and were alive,was no evidence. C wp. 59z. Sn
infcriptions.on tomb.4lones, or entries in family bibles ; but the
teftimony of fuch infcriptions, or of fuch entries, muft be in the
ufual courfe. Copies of liaiifh regifters were good; yet even
thefe mufr be proved on oath to be true copies. In this cafe
there-was, no regular proof, that the .leaf of the bible produced
was ever cut out of the family bible of MMic.bad. ' It depend.;
ed partly on the notary's certificate, and, partly, on the exparte
depofition -taken-before him in the adjoining ftate.; neither of
which were evidence.
Lewis lhe'wed caufeagainft the rule, and urged that tiiefir/l
was a captious exception, the merits being clearly with the plaintiff, and that the evidence only came in aid of other proof. That
he confidered the firft point as fettled, having been fo ruled in
the cafe of Levans' leffee v. Hart. That in the leffee of Morris
v. Flora, the depofition of a 'viizefs was read on proof by oath
of the-plaintiff, that the witnefs was infirm and unahle to attend.
That none of the cafes' fay it muff be by difinterefted proof;
and the law,does not require the fame fitri&nefs in the proof
offered to.fatisfy the confcience of the court, That it does in the
proof offeired lo a jury.
Oi theficond point.he urged, that flight.proof wasfufficiex
in the cafe of pedigree .; and that.this.v idence admitted by the
proof, and therefore ai
t
j;dge -was only corrbb6r.,iVe o pther
trial. He faid that
new
a
for
caufe
no
done,
been
had
jiuftice
en parte afflavits -had often been admitted in evidence, parti.
culaily'in ihe caef of A'ei:'leffee v. Rimpfon, tried at Lancafter x :and ihat thou.. thefe were affidavits taken beyond feas,
that there could be nr line drawn but the jurifdiion of the
court. Thatfhearlay being fufficient evidence in cafe bf pedigree, this was ftronger, being on oath and certified.by a notary.
¢Bradffed, in reply, thferved tbatthe cafe of ex parte affidavits
hWd Dep.r conined to fhefe qf perfons beyond feas, and it would
,e very enmiciolvs to etcnd the rule. That the only circumfrance, that could give any validity to the leaf in queftion, was
regular jIroof of its beiig in the bible of A.MAIichael, and written
by hira orb~' hhisr.dtion6. Butnolegal proofv/as-given when

isrs rued and adjudged in the

4

1791. the entries were made, -nor that it was his bible. Befides, itwas
v-'%. mutilated evidence, and the book itfelf ought to have been pro.

duced.
THE COURT were clear, on thefrfl point, that the plaintiff
was a good witnefs to prove the death of the fabfcribing witnefs,
in order to let in evidence of the handwriting; and feemed to
confider it as the common pra"ice*
On the econd point, THE CHIEF JUSTICE obferved, that the
rules of evidence, with regard to pedigree, were by no means
icft&; and that the CouRT were inclined to think, that the evidence admitted by the judge who tried the caufe, was fufficient
in fuch a cafe.
SHIPPEN, uftice : It muff not be underftood, that ex parte
affidavits taken in other Rlates, are admiffible evidence in cafes
of pedigree. I concur in the opinion of the Court, upon the
peculiar circumftances of the cafe, and the produ&ion of the paper itfelf. The general principle, attempted to be inferred by
th defendant counfel, muft not be confidered as involved in
this decifion.
Rule dircharged

September Term, 1791.
RESPUBLCA Terus LACAZE. et. a.

T fkerling,

IS was an a&ion of debt in the debet et deinetfor£4 ooo

equal to £. 6,666. 13. 8. currency, brought in
the name of te commonwealth for the ufe of Lewis Lanoix1
againft Jamer Lacaze, Michae Mallet, and John Rofi, Upon a
writing figned by the defendants, dated the 4 th of Novem~ber
I783,
andoftaken
in the orCourt
of Admiralty
of Pennfylvania,
the
nature
a caution,
in
ftipulation.
The information
(which:
the whole cae) was in the following words :
Mates
" Piladelphia County ft
James Lacaze, Michael M allet and Jfohn Rqfr, all late of thecity of Philadephid in the faid county, merchant were fummoned to anfwer the commonwealth of Pennfylvanaain a plea,
that
SSee r Blac Rep. u53 , wherethe plant hifefwa eeamicnd;
ud God&. r93. 326. Shavwr 363.

