SupmR

CobRT or Penfytvan;a.

237

Cbnfitution and Laws of the State, and, therefore, void. I r795.
.Rac. Ab. 328. ConVf. of Penn.
The proceedings were fupported by 7Wilocks (the Recorder)
and 2Xornas, who contended, that the judgment was not in nature of a convi&ion, but founded on an ad-ion of debt; and
that, therefore, it was unnecefhry to flate that defendant wasproved to be a Huckter. With refpe& to the power of the
Corporation to enaa the Ordinance, they urged, that it arofe
from the neceffity of the cafe, fince experience had evinced, that
nothing lefs than the abfolute prohibition contained in the Ordlinance, could defeat the firatagems of the Huckfters, and prevent the extortion whi6h they introduced.
Pt.ul.

Cur.
MILLER -'uerfts LEONARD, et al.

-

HIS was an-a&ion of dcbt nn a 'bond for L25o, dat&I
I 778;
the 7 111 of May 1776. On the i6th of Setember
T
a payiaent had -been made of i5o, in Continental money ;

and the queftion now brought before the. Court was, whether
this payment fhould be reduced and liquidated, according to the
fpecie value of Continental money, at the time of paying it ?
For the plaintiff, it was contended, that the amt of Afflmbly
(r Vol Dalt. Edit. j. 88o.) does not extend to any contra~ts,
but fuch as wvere made between the Ift of Y'anuary 1777, and
the IfI of March 1781 ; and that, confcquently, thepayment
in the prefent inflance was not aff:t&ed by the provifion in the
4 th fie,7, that " the Auditors fhall not have power or authority,
in cafes where partial payments have been made in money then
current, to reduce fuch payment."
But -THrECouRT thought it unnecefrary to hear the defendant's
counfel, conceiving it to be clear and fettled, that the payment
in the prefent cafe, ought not to be reduced by the fcale of depreciation.
Read and Biddle for the plaintiff, CIymer and Ujomas for the
defendant.*
KACHLIN et a/. verfus MUI;HALLON, et al.t

D

EBT on a bond. Plea, payment, with leave &c. and iffue.
The counfel for the defendants had given notice, agreeably

SDecidedA at Easeon Aisi Phts,on th xft o1 October 1795, belorc
'rn .ustices.
1- Decided at.Easton,
Nisi Prius, on the 2d, of O.:ober 1795- before Y. T S and SXITH, asii ces.
YEATES an I S!

