CAsEs ruled and adjudged in tht
1793"

January Term, 1793.

BoYcE verfus MOORE.

N this a&i"on, which was brought on a Policy of Infuranee
fubfcribed the 8th of Sept; 1786, the plaintiffdeclared for a
total lofs, and offered in evidence the proteft of the captain,
made at Alexandria, on the 22d Sept. but it appearing that the
captain, who had been taken up at fea from the wreck, had arrived at Newbury-Portin New-England on the i zth of Augt-,
and paffed through Philadelphi, on his way to Alexandria, be.
fore he made his proteft, the evidence was obje&ed to, the defendant infifting that the proteft ought to have been made at
the firft port, and cited i Dall. Rep. 317. as in point.
LevJy contended, that where a proteft is offered to excufe the
captain's condu&, more ftri&nefs might be required. In I'e .
432. it is Rated, that the proteft muff be made at any place,
where the captain firft arrives ; but if that be impofble, he muff
make proteft at any fubfequent port. Here the captain fRates
in his proteft, that he could not make it for want of money to
pay the fees ; he loft every thing with the veffel.
'KEAN, Chief ffuflie. Where there is no notary, a pro.
teft may be made before a magiftrate. The excufe offered in
this cafe, for not making the proteft at the fituf port, would be
a very flimfy.one, even if proved by indifferent witneffes. Protefis are only admitted from neceffity ; and the rule, which requires that they fhould be made at the firft port, is a good one,
to prevent abufes. If it be not praticableto make it at the firft
port, it muff be made at the next, where it is pradicable. This
proteft, therefore, cannot be received as evidence.

PLEASANTS,

Adm'tor, ve~fur .PEmBERTON, Adm'trix.

was an aion brought to recover a child's Thare of
the inteftate's eftate. The defendant gave in evidence are,ceipt from the guardian of the child, for " four. thoufand Contaental I ollars" dated the x9 th of Februay, 1780, while Continental money was a legal tender, but depreciated fifty for one.
Upoh this the guardian. (w4,9 was releafed fo as to make him a
difisterefted

