SUP

ME CoDRT or Fennfylvania.

247
1796.

Septewmer Term, 1796.

W

9

j 1 APIAS.

TEas .erfuS COLLOT

b~gerfoll and Lewis had obtained a rule upon;

the Plaintiff to fhew ;iis caufe of a~Iion, aid why the

endant fhould not be difcharged on cQrmmon bail. Dallas&
Du Ponceau now fhewed caufe.
It appeared that the Plaintiff was mafter of the Kitty, a brig,
which, together with her whole cargb, belonged to Stephe, Girard, an .American citizen of Philadelphia, bound on L voyag.
from "this port to 7eremie in the Ifland of St. Domingo and back
again. The brig had arrived at Jglemie, nd fold part of her
cargo to the French government there, before the port and town
were taken by the Brit#;; after which, having purchafed fome
produce, the plaintiff was permitted by the Britjh Captors, to,
proceed to Cayemite to obtain the money due to him from the
French government, and to compleat his return cargo. On the
3 d of November 1793, he failed from Cayemite for Philadejphia
but meeting with confiderable damage on the Anerican coaft, he
'was compelled to bear away for the ifland of Guadaloupe. Whenhe had arrived within-three leagues of Bafeterre (for which he
was a&ually fleering) he was boarded by a French privateer,.
carried into the road of Bajleterre, and perfonally mnaltreated by
the privateer's, men. The veffel and her cargo being libelled
before the tribunal for the diftrit of Beeterre, the Judge, after
a full examination of the flip's papers, pronounced a decree
6T-hat the brig Kitty, her cargo, and all her appendages, floul$
be reftored, and that the captors Ihould pay the cofts." But
the defendant, who wag the Governoi and Commander in Chiefof Guadaloupe, dire&ed an appeal from this decree to be brought
before him; and although the. Court, and the National Commiffary protefted, in the ftrongeft terms, againffhi s power to,
take cognizance of the cafe, he proceeded to confifcate the brig
and her cargo, for the benefit of the privateer. The Court attempted in vain to execute its decree, but the governor fucceeded in enforcing'his mandate. The defendant being obliged
foon afterwards to feek an afylum in Philadphia, the plaintiff
(who had a, confiderable adventure on board the brig) arrefted.
him i the prefent aionto recover the amount of his damages.
OZ,

240

1796.
I.j

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

On arguing the motion, it was contended, by the defendant's
counfel, that the defendant had. a~ed in his official capacity,
and was only refponfible to his own government for his mifcondurf. Trhat the remedy of any injured American citizen was by
applying, likewife, to his own governmenlt, -which is bound to
prote6t his rights, and to procure a. redrefs. That the commiffion of the defendant gave him a general fuperintendance over
the affairs of the ifland; and that many things were juftifiable
to be done by an Executive officer in a revolutionary period, for
which it was not juft, or reafonable, to make.him ahfwerable by
any other, than the law of the country, in which he di&ed.
The counfel for the plaintiff obferved, that on a preliminary
motion of this kind, it was only neceffary to fhew a probable
caufe of a6lion; and, they contended, that having proved the
plaintiff's intereft in the. cargo of the brig, and the tortious feizure by the defendant, in dirc& violation of the decree, pronounced by a competent tribunal, it was matter .of defence
proper for a trial before a jury, to ihew that the defendant's
condu& was juftified by his official authority or duty. But, it
was, urged, that there was no colour for fuch a defence. The
commiffion of the defendant extends ofily to a military controul;
it gives no appellate jurifdi&ion, from the tribunals ofjuftice;
and everi ftate neceffity could not be pretended, as-the brig and
cargo were not feized and appropriated to the public ufe; but
were. confifcated for the benefit of the owners of the privateer.
The refponfibility.of a foreign magiftrate to his own government
exclufively, for his official ass, will not be difputed; but if a
man, who happens to be the officer of a foreign government,
does an injury to the property,, or perfon, of an A4merican 'itizen, without a public authority, motive, or obje&, he is refponfible like any other individual, at the fuit of the injured party.
Whether the prefent aggreffion was a private, or an official,
a&, is the gift of the con-troverfy; and, on that point, the plaintiff is entitled to a trial ; which, however, he is not likely ever
to obtain with effea, if the'defendant, a traveller, is difcharged
on common bail.
By THE COURT. We think, that there is fufficient caufe
fbewn, for holding the. defendant to bail. But, it muft not be
underilood. that, by this decifion, we give any countenance to an
opinion, that he is ultimately liable. It is a queflion of'grtat
delicacy, in which our regard for the rights of a fellow-citizen,
and our refpe& for the fovereignty of a foreign nation, are equally involved. When, therefore, the fubje& is judicially inveftigated, we flall be governed, as well by the law of nations,
as by out muticipal law.*
* The defendant com..la;ned of" his arrett to the government of
France, by which it was mide a matter of public complaint "againft
the Federal government; and, eventually, the pl.inti difcontinued
Iiis action.

