YPRP
SuP

COURT of the United States.

409

hauds of the marfhall, 'till the right to it is fairly decided ; and 1792.
fo avoid the rifque of putting the true owner to a fuit, for he to-v-%J
purpofe of recoverifg it back ?
For my part, I think that the money, Ihould remain in
the cuftody. of the law, till the law has adjudged to whom
it belongs'; and, -therefore, I -am. copteot, that the injun&lon
iffie.
An Injuniion granted.*

HAYBURNS cAE

rT HIS was a motion for a mandamus to be dire&ed to the

Circuit.Court for the diftri& of Penlyylvhnia, command1
ing the faid court tb proceed in a certain petition of Win. HayZarn, who had applied to be paton the penfion lift of the United
States, as an invalid penfioner.
The principal cafe arore upoo the a& of Congrefs paffed the
23 dof March, 1792.
The Attorney General (Randalph) who made the motion
for the mandamus, .having premifed that it was done ex ofo
do, without an application from any particular perfon, but
with a view to procure the execution of an a&ft of Congrnfs
particularly interefting to a meritorious and unfortunate clafs
of citizens, THE CouRT declared that they entertained great
doubi upon his right, under fuch circumftances, and in a
cafe of this kind, to proceed' ex o#4o ; and dire&ed him
to ftate the principles on which he* attempted, to fupport
the right. The Attorhey General, accordingly, -entered into
an: elaborate defcription of the powers -and duties of his
office:
But THE CouT'T being divided in opinion on that queftion,
the motion, made ex ofciv, v,as not allowed.
The Attorney General then changed the ground of his interpofition, decliring it to be at the inftance, and on behalf of Hayhurn, a party interefted; and he entered into the merits of the
cafe, upon the a& of Congrefs, and the refufalof the Judges to
carry it into effe&THE CouE.T obferved, that 'they would hold the motion
under adviferfient, until the next term ; but no decifion
was ever Pronounced, as the Levi lature, at an in intermediate
See the tame cafe, post. & 3 vol ,. as well on a motion to dilfolve
the Injun-61ion,.as on a trial of the merits, upon a feigned iffue,
bp

410

CAStS

ruled and adjudged in the-

q792. ate feffion; provided, in another way, for the relief of th
penfioners.4
RULE.
t" See an a& patled the 28th Feb.

7 9 3.- As the reafonq affigned

by the Judges, for declining to execute the firft aa of Congrefs, in.
volve a great Conftitutional quefltin, it will not be thought improper
to fubjoin them, in illuftration of Hayburn's cafe.
The Circuit court for the diriri&t of New-York (confifting of JAY,
Chiefyustice, CusHiNG, Justice, and D-uA&- Diftri& Jcldge) proceed.
e I on the 5 th of April, 1791, to take into confideration the a6 of
Congrefs entitled "An act to provide for the fettlement.of the claims
" of widows and orphans barred by the limitations heretofore eflablifled, and to regulate the claims to invalid penfions ;" and were,
thereupon, unanimoufly, of opinion and agreed,
" That by the Conflitution of the United States) the government
thereof is divided into three diflinct and independent branches, and
that it is the duty of each t6 abilain from, and to oppofe, encroachments on either.
." That neither the Legislative nor the Executive branches, can
conftitutionBlly affign to the J7udicialany duties,, but fuch as are properly judicial, and to be performed in a judicial manner.
C4That the duties afligned to the Circuit courts, by this act, are
not of that defcription and that the act itlelf does not appear to contemplate them as fuch; i. as much as it fubjects the decifions of thefe
courts, made purfuant to thofe duties, firil to the confideration and
fulpetifion of the Secretary at War,, and then to the revifion of the
Legiflature : whereas by the Conifitution, neither the Secretary, at
Wrar, nor any other Executive officer, nor 'even the Legilature, are
authorized to fit as a court of errors on the judicial acts or opinions
of this court.
" As, therefore, the burinefs aligned to this court, by the act, is
not'judicial, nor directed to be performed judicially, the act can only
be conrdered as appointing commiffioners for the purpefes mentioned in it, by official inflead of personal defcriptions.
,, That the Judges of this court regard themfelvss -as being the
commiffioners defignated by the act, and therefore as being at liberty
to accept or deciline that office.
" That as the objects'6f this act are exceedingly benevolent, and
do real honor to the humanity and jullice of Congrefs; and as the

Judges delire to manifeft, cn all proper occafions, and in every proper
manner, their high refpect for the National Legiflature, they willexecute this act in the capacity of comniffioners.
" That as the Legiflature have a right to ixtend the feffion of this
court for any term, -which they maythink proper by law to affign, the
term of five days, as directed by this act, ought to be punctually
obferved.
" That the judges of this court will,, as ufual,, during the fefliot
thereof, adjourn-the court from day to day, or oiher flhort periods, as
(ircumPfances may render proper, and thatthey will, regularly, between
the adjournments, proceed as commiffioners to xccuto the buflnels of
ihis ad in the fame court room, cr chamber."

