SUPR-ME COURT OF Pentnhvana,

21F9

je& ; and kept the caufe under advifement for tfiat purpofe, 1794.
2t ll the prefent Term ; when they gave judgment for the de- t
fendant, as in the cafe of a non-fuit.
Judgment for the defendant.

INGRAHABI verfus GaB.s.

Jury brought in their verdi& in dollars, and thr,
ordered it to be fo recorded.*

TCourt
THE

FUL.ER Verfux MCALL.

T

HIS was an a&ion on a Policy of Infurance, upon thd.
cargo of the Sloop Afary, William Southern mafter; at
and from Philadelphiato !Crinidad in which the plaintiff declared againft the defendant, one of the underwriters, as for a total lofs. On the trial the following fa6ls appeared :-The plaintiff having fhipped goods on board the loop to. the invoice
amount of '931, fhe failed from Philade.phia on the 5 th of
.MaY 1789, and foon afterwards encountered a gale of wind,
during which fhe fprung a leak, that obliged her on the 20th of.
June, to make 8t.Bartholimews,the neareft port. A furvey was
there immediately had upon the floop, which was. found incapa
ble of continuing longer at fea; and alfo on'the cargo,, which
proved to be vwr-y much damaged ; and on. the 3 d, 7 th, zoth &
2 7 th of duly, N.Dawes of St. 2!arttxlomews communicated thefe
circumftances, by letters, to the plaintiff,- and'further informed
to be re-fhipped, it had been
him, that as the cargo was not fit
fold for 3067 pieces of eight, which (together with the account
fales) N. Daqves ent in fpecie by Capt. Southern, 'to the plaintiff. When the firft accoufit of the floop's putting into St.
Bartholomews arrived at Philadelphia (on the 2 3 d of July) the
plaintiff was at Cape May; but his clerk (who had general initru&ions to. tranfa& his bufinefs) opened Mr. Dawes'j firlf
letter, and by the inftruffions of Mr. -Fqer, whom the plaintiff had dire6ted him to confult; he fhewed it to the defendant,.
and to fuch other of the underwriters as were -inthe city, ort
the day it was received, or on the enfuiiig day... Thefe gentle..
men expTeffed no opinion upon the occafion; but the clerk, by
the advico of Ali. Fjier,opened a policy upon the return cargo,.
for the benefit of whom it might concern, and the former underwriters.
E ee
inflance of a judicial coxpenfatiO.im
This, I belrve, is the firaf
Dqloarsln the State Courts of Pennsylvanie.

