SUPReME CoURT oF Pennfyvania.

277

defendants; but being of opinion, that, at all events, the a&ion 1797.
could not be mantained in the plaintiff's name, they dire&ed
a non-fuit; which was, accordingly, entered.
Willcocks, Riwle and Ha/owell, for the Plaintiff. .kgerfoll,
Lewis and Dallasfor the defendants.
D'CARTY verfus EMLEN.

.HIS adion was brought to September term, 1789, by the
plaintiff, as furviving partner off Cumihgs, to recover a
I
debt due to the partnerfiiip. On the 4 th of M1arch 1793, the
matters in difput.e were referred; on the 2ift of ?anuary 1795,
there was a report filed, finding ,, 165 oft i. in favor of the
plaintiff; and thereupon judgment ny/ was entered. But, it
appeared, that a ForeignAttachment had been iffued, in the Philadeipkia Common Pleas, returnable to Aarch term 793, in the
name of Elizabeth Pringle,adminiftratrix of Yohn Pringle,againft
MIilliam .M'Carty, the prefent plaintiff, for a debt due by him
'in his feparate, individual capacity, to the deceafed inteftate;
and that the attaclIment had been ferved upon effe&s &c. in
the hands of Emlen, the prefent defendant; who was a debtor to
the partn~rfhip of MUCarty & Cummings, .but did not owe any
*thing to McCarty in his feparate right.
" On the 24 th of January 1795, E. Tilghman & WTicocks, for
the defendant, obtained a rule to fhew caufe, why the execution
in this a&ion, fhould not be flayed, until an indemnification is
had againft the foreign attachment of Pringle,adminiftratrix v.
M'"Carty. And, after argument, upon a cafe, flating the pre2
ceding fads, (Ingerfoll appearing for the plaintiff) the Judges
delivered their opinions, feriatin, t6 the following effe&:
M'KEA.N, Chief.7uflice. The queftion in this caufe, is-whether the debt due from Em/en to the late partnerlhip of McC'arty.
Cummings, has been fecured by the foreign attachment,-in
favor of M'Cartys feparate creditor, or can only be difcharged
by a payment to the furviving partner ?
Two obje&ions are urged againft the claim uider the attach.
ment :-ift. That ihe prefent 'a&ion was commenced by the
furviving partner, before the attachment was laid ; and a debt
in fuit is n3t attachable. 2d.'That the attachment is brought
to recover a debt due from McCarty in his feparate capacity ;
whereas the debt attached is due from the garnifhee to the company off'f'Carty & Cummings; and the partnerfhip debts-(which,
it is faid, are not yet fettled) muff firft be paid out of the partnerlhip funds.
But, it is to be obferved on thefflg objeion, that, although
a debt in ftit is not attacliabloin Eng/and, becaufe the fuperior
Coturt8

278

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1797. Courts of that country, will not, in the plenitude of their authoe'r%'rity, permit fubje&s. depending before them, to be affected by
the procefs of inferior tribunals, exercifing a jurifdi&ion by fpecial cuffom; yet, here the fame caufe'does not operate ; as the
Supreme and County Courts have a co-ordinate, concurrent ju.
rifdiion in other fuits, as well as in cafes of attachment; and,
ofcourfe, the effe&l is not, neceffarily the fame.

But, on general

principles of juftice and reafon, it would be difficult to fatisfy
the mind, why money fhould not be ttached in the hands of a
debtor, as well after, as before, the perfon to whom it is due,
has fued for it. Ifjuffice and reafon are not oppofed to it, public policy and convenience ffrongly recommend it. Many foreigners, refident abroad, enjoy an extenfive credit from one clafs
of citizens in this country, on account of the debts which are
knovn to be due to thcm from another clafs ; and if nothing
more were- neceffary to fhelter fuch foreigners from the effects
of an attachment, than to bring fuits, againft their debtors, it is
obvious that the fund, which conflitutes- the principal fecurity
of the American Trader, might be efiily and irretrievably with
drawn.
The Court are, therefore, unanimoufly of opinion, that the
drebt due from Emlen to M"Cartyand Cummings, might lawfully

be attached, notwithfanding the fuit previoufly inflituted by the
furviving Partner to recover it.
On thef.:odobjeCtion, it muff be obferved, as a general rule,
that partnerihip effects are firft to be appropriated to the payment of partnerflip debts : but this, like every other'gencral rule,
admits of exceptions ; and it is hardly, indeed, fufceptible of a
ftri& applicationdin any cafes, but thofe of bankruptcy, infolvency, and-execution. The confequence of its application to partnerfhips, would be'highlyipjurious to trade, and embarraffing
to juflice. A partner may owe feparate debts ; and his property may confift ofpartnerfliip ftock ; yet, if the objeetion prevails,
it is impoffible to conceivc when the feparate creditors W'ill be able
to make that property refpenfible. While the partnerfhip continues, how Thall they compel a difclofure and liquidation of all
the debits and credits of the company ? And even whcn a partnerfhip is diflolved, where \vill feparate creditors find the inclination, or thz power, to fcrutinize and clofe the records of a long
aildcoinplicated mercantile conneCtion? But the law is happily
otherwife: For, it has been, repeatedly, fettled here, as well as in
England, that a Partner may be fucd for feparate debts; that the
partncifhip cfeflts may betaken in cxecuti nand fold by moietiesi
and that the purchafer of the moiety, tander the execution, fhall
•bt confidered as Tenant in common with the-partner, owning
the-other moiety. The cafe in Doug. 65o, is, in my judgment,
conclurwe upon this point.

SUPREME CoURT oF Penfjy'ania.

2-.

The refult of the view, which I have taken upon the fubjea, r7 9 7.
is; that the Defendant in this act ion, is liable as Garnifhee in
the foreign attachment, to pay to \the reprefentative of gohn
Pringle, one: moiety (or whatever may have been M'Cany,'s partnerfhip proportiona) of the debt due to .M.'Carty and CGminning.
SHIPPEN, j"It7,ce. I concur in the opinion, which has b'eex
delivered. The do6trine, that debts in fuit cannot be attached,
depends entirely upon the fuperior dignity of the Courts in England, before whom the fuits muft be initituted; but as the fame
kinds of procefs iffue in Pentnfylvania from both defcriptions
of courts, there is no dignity to be violated here, by allowing the
attachment.
As to the claim on account of the partnerffAip, it appears pregnant with the greateft inconveniences. An honeft, feparate,
creditor, though he had obtained, by attachment, a fair and legal
lien upon the debt, would thus be compelled to wait in fufpence, during an indefinite period, for be fettlement of everr
partnerfhip account.
YEATEs, yty/ice. The a&t of affembly purfues, in general,
the Cufton of London, on the fubje& of foreign attachments -.
but the decifi6ns that prevent the operation of, attachments, in
the cafe of debts in fuit, are evidently founded on that jealoufy
of the fuperior Courts in England, for which, in this ftatc, there
exifts-no caufe ; fince the procefs, for\ oth kinds of fuits, iffues
from both defcriptions of courts. The preamble of the a&, indeed, declares the propriety and the intention, to put the effeas7
of abfent debtors, and of debtors dwelling upon the fpot, on
an equal footing, for making reftitution for debts, (i Vol. Dail.
Edit.p. 6o.) but that intention would be eafily-fruftrated, if every Foreigner, by inflituting a fuit, could furnifh. a bar to the attachment : Our courts would, in etffier, be flill open fo nonrefidents, but fliut againft their creditors. Even, however, in
.Engla-id, while the fuperior courts refufe to give the effe& defcribed, to foreign attachments ifhling from an inferior tribunal,
they-have exercifed their own authority in a manner very fimilar
to that which is now contemplated ; by ordering the fheriff to
retain in his hands, for the ufe of the plaintiff in one acdtion, a
fum of money whieh he had levied for the defendant at his fiit,
in another aftion. -Doug. 219.
But, on thefecondobjeion," I have the misfortune to differ
from the opinion entertained by.my brethren --.For, I think, it
has been long and clearly fettled, upon principles of natural
juftice, and commercial convenience, that joint effeds hall firf"
be applied to the payment of joint debts ; and that the feparate
creditor of a partner fhall not be let in to a fhare of the partnerlhip property, 'till the whole of the partnerihip, debts are fatlsflied. 2 Fern. 293. 706. 1 7ez. 242t497. C wp. 440. I P.
WZIV.

28o

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

'1797. 7'm. 183. It is only a moiety, therefore, of the furplus of the
joint flock of Mcl'Carty & Cummingr, after paying every lawful
%-o..
claim againft the company, that can, in my opinion, be liable
to the attachment inftituted by Pringle's adminiftratrix againit
M'Carty, to recover a feparate debt.
SmITH, Juxtice. As I agree with the Chief Juftice, in every
point of his opinion, for the reafons which he has affigned, it
would be fuperfluous to exprefs more than a general concurrence
in the judgment of the Court.
By THE CotIRT: Let one moiety of the money attached be
paid by the garnifhee, to the adminiftratrix of ohn Pringle; an'A
let the other moiety be paid, to the plaintiff in this aftion.

December Term,

1797.

CAMtERLING verfu' MICAr4 L.

His was an ation on the cafe, ona Policy ofinfurance dT&ted the 28th of Oeobr 1786, on, theTchooner dhn, Nathaniel Simmons mafter, on avoyage from Bath, or lVaJOington,
in North Carolina, to the Ifland of St, Thomas, It was a valued policy,.in which the Plaintiff's moiety of the Schooner was
valued at £r3oo; and the afion was brought for a total lofs.
The caufe was firft tried by a fpccial Jury in Septe;ibher Term
t 7 9 6,.when a general verdiS was found for thePlaintiffwith 28
dollars and 84 cents damages ; but, in confequence of an agreement between the counfel, there was a fecond trial in MflarJb
term '797, when the 'jury found- a fpecial-verdiS, in diefe
terms.
". 'And now at March-term A. D. 1797, to wit on the twenty-fourth of the faid month, a jury to wit, &c. being duly im-,
panelled, tried, fW6rn and affirmed, refpeiively, to try the
iffues'joined. between,the parties aforfid, on their oaths and
atlirmations, aforefaid, fay, that on the 28th October z 786 thepialtiff then and ever fince refided in the ftatd of NorthCare
lina, was owner of one half of the fchooner in the declaration.
mentioned, her tackle,, apparel, and furniture, of the'value of
ihee hundred plounds, lawful, money 'of Pennfylvania, and. oa
T

