CAsts rtled a=d1 adjudged in tio
1796.

AIprd Term, I796.

Prefent-IREDELL and PETERS, JuAicrs,
HULSECAMIP

verfus TEEL..

HTIS was an a2ion for an Affiult and Battery comnittea
on tile HigI. Stas, and the damages were laid in the declaration at iooo do'lars; but the controverfy being referred,.
the refereec reported only 45 dollars in favor of the plaintiff.
In 4Ap-ilterm 1795, Al Levy, for the defendant, obtained a
rule to fhrt-.v caufc, why the report of the referees fhould not be
quafbed, and the adion difmiffed : And the queftion was now
argued by him on the one fide, and by Rawle upon the other.
In fiipport of the rule, Levy, having adverted to the 3 d A4rticre
of the Conftitution of the United States, as the foundation of the
Judicial'authoriy, contended, that by tle i rthfe ion of tht
Judicial a&, which eflablifhes the jurifdi&ion of the Circuit
Court, no fuit could be there infltituted and maintained, unlefs the
.plaintiff was entitled to recover,and adluafly recovered, a fum exceeding 5oo dollars, exciufive of colts. He drew a fimilar inference
from the provifion in the 2thfeilion of the A&, which requires.
that fuits removed into the Circuit Court from a State Court,
Ifhou'ld be of the fame value ; and he diftingu'fhed between actions for tort, and adions upon contra6, in order more forcibly
to exclude the cognizance of the Court in the former, than in
the latter, inflances. The 2othfe.ion, empowering the Court to
adjudge the plaintiff to pay colts, was manif.ftly defigned, in.
that refpe&, to give a jurifdi&ion, which the Court would not,
otherwife, poflefs on account of the general limitation of juriidiction, as to the fum or matter in difpute: And in the provifion, that the Diftrid Court fhall have jurifdi&ion of offences
where the fine does not exceed zoo dollars, it is evident, that
the jurifdiat'on. cannot be afcertained 'till the Judge is about to
pronounce fenterice.
.Rawle, in oppofing the rule, obferved that the ad of Congrefs did not recognize any dillindron between adions for tort,
Pand acjons upon contrad ;. but barely required that the matter'
in dlfpqe fhould exceed theTum or value, of 5oo dollars, exclu.We of collsi and the lanuage is the fame in the 9 thfieion, in
relation

CIRCUIT CounT, Pennfyhlania Diftri&.

359

relation to the jurifdi&ion ot the Diftria Court in fuits brought 1796.
by the United States..The very provifion, indeed, which au- t.-y-.j
thorifes the Court, in the 2othfe7ion to adjudge that the plaintiff
fhall pay coft., where lefs than the fum of Soo dollars is recovered, fliews clearly that the jurifti&ion was intended to be
vefted, if the matter in difpute, as ftated in the declaration, exceeds the fpecified amount, though a jury, or referees, fhould
not give fo much. The matter in difpute in this caufe Vas an
aggravited perfonal injury, which might have endangered the
plaintiff's life, and certainly would have juftified heavier damages.
The Judges, though they delivered their opinions feparately,
concurred in the following pofizon.-" as the ground of decifion.
BY THE COURT :--That the fum, or value of the obje& in
controverfy, fhould amount to 5oo dollars; was deemed by the
Legiflature a reafonable limit to the jurifdiction of this Court;
but the law has itfelf, likewife, provided the remedy againft
any tranfgreffion of that limitation, by declaring that the plaintiff, who recovers lefs, may be adjudged to pay cofis. The
-very force of the expreffion vefts a jurifdi&ion; fince it would
be impoffible to adjudge that the plaintiff fhould pay cofts, without taking cognizance of the caufe.
But whatever diftin6tion might be made in other refpeas,
between fuits inftlituted tp recover a furn certain, and fuits
brought to recover damages for a tort, certain it is, that in the
latter cafes there cin be no rule to afcertain the jurifdifion of
the Court, but the value laid in the declaration. If the finding
.of the Jury was the criterion, tlen the jurifdi&ion of the Court
would depend entirdy on the erdi& ; and if a verdi& in favor
of the plaintiff, for lefs than Soo dollars, would defeat ihe jurifdi&ion, a verdi& againft him muft unqueftionably be equally
fatal.
We think, therefore, that the amount of the plaintiff's claim
muft be confidered as the matter in difpute ; and that upon a
fair compirifon and conftru&ion of the i ith and 2oth fections
of the Judicial aMl, the miee finding of a jury, or 'of referees,
upon the queftion of damages, cannot affect the'jurifdiffion of
he Court.*
Rule difcharged.
OL7ober
The follo ing autborits were cited by PETFR.r,t4tice:-Debt,
detinu,, 8.c. will not lie for a d- t un~r 40 fhilings; a Inst. 31*1.
12 C'an. Dig.- Yt, the fmallnefs of the fumniuft appear on the
lace ot th-- declaration. 3 Burr. 159z. Barnes 497, and though reduthejurifdiion of the CoLrt. 3 Wfils.
ced by a fet-oi, it will not r&Xea.

