384

Csts ruled'and adjudged in die

1798. The teftimony may be of fuch a nature, as not to admit of all
0
its force being redticed to the form of a depofition.
With refpe&t to a difclofure of the fatls, which depend on
the teftimony of the witnefs, we think that it is not regularly
in our power to compel it; and, even if we had the power, it
might be effentially wrong, in many cafes, to exercife it.
Nor, do I think, that, becaufe this is a cafe of ejedment,
the Court fhould be lefs fcrupulous in ordering the trial to proceed: for, it muft be recollefted, that the Defendant is, at prefent, in poffieffion of the premifes, but will be evi~ted, if the
caufe is decided againft him.
Upon the whole, the Court cannot, perhaps; lay down a general rule, for the continuance of caufes ; but muff, under
the circumftances of each cafe, take care that injuftice is not
done, either by precipitate trials, or wanton delays. In the
prefent inftance, there appears to be a fair groufid for the poftponement 3 and, therefore,
Let the caufe be continued,

pril Term, x 7 9S,

Rrefent, CHAsE and PETERS, .7t/fiice4

The VzTE)D STATES verfS WORR!Lt.

HE defendant was charged with an attempt to bribe
Tench Coxe, the Commiffioner of the ,Revenmie; and the
inditment, containing two counts, fet foith the cafe as follows:
"The Grand Inqueft of the UnitedStates of .merica, for the
Penqfylvania Diflri&t, upon their refpeftive oaths -and affirmations do prefent-That whereas on the 13 th day of May I79n,
it was enadted by the Senate and Houfe of Reprefentatives of
the United States of America, in- Congrefs affenibled; "'that as
foon as the jurifdiftion of fo much of the headland of Cape.
Hatteras, in the_&tate of .NorthCarolina, as the Prefident'of the.

"United Statts fhall deem fuffiicient and moft proper for the convenience

CrRCuF't COURT, -PenfylvaniaDiftri6t.

385

*venience and accommodation of a light houfe, fhall have been 1798ceded to the United States-, it flhfill be the duty of the Secretary "
of the.Treafurr to provide by corltra&, which fhall be approved
by the Prefident of the United.States, for building a light-houfe
thereon of the firft rate : And alfo, "that the Secretary of the"
T'reafury be authorized to provide by contra&, which fhall be
approved by the Prefident of the United Staltes, for building on
an ifland in the harbour of Occacock, called S.ell Cajile, 4 lighted beacon of a wooden frame, 55 reet high, to be 22 feet at
the bafe, and to be reduced gradually to 12 feet at the top, exclufively of the lantern, which fhall be, made to cbntain one
large lamp with four wicks, and for furnifhing the fame with
all neceffary fupplies. , Provided, that no fpich lighted beacon
fliall be ere&ed, until a ceffion of a fufficient quantity of land
on the faid ifland fhall be made to the United States by the confent of the Legiflature of the State of North Carolina:" And
whereas the Legiflature of the State of North Carolina did, on
the 17th day of uly 1794, cede to the United States the jurifdi6tior of fo much of the headland of Cape Hatterasin the fame
State, as the Prefident of the faid United States deemed fufficient
and moff proper for the convenience and accommodation of 2.
light houfe, and alfo a fufficient quantity 'of land for building
on the faid ifland, in the harbour of Occacock, called Shell Cajls,
a beacon of the kind, defcriptions, and dimenfions aforefaid:
And whereas,'afterivards, to wit, on the 28th day bf September
1797, at the Diftri& aforefaid, Tench Coxe, Efq. (he the faid
Tench Coxe, then and there being Commiflioner of the Revenue,
in the department of-the'Secretary of'the Treafury,) then and
there was appointed and inftruted by the Secretary of th'
Treafury, by and with the authority of itle Prefident of the faid
United States, to receive propofals for building, the light 'houfe
aforefaid, and beacon aforefaid : Robert IWorrall late of the
fame Diftri&, yeoman, being an ill difpofed pqrfon and wickedly contriving and contending to bribe and feduce the faid
Tench Coi e, fo being Commiffioier of the Rivenue, from the
peiformance of the truft and duty fo in him repofed, on the
faid 28th day of September 1797, at the Diftri& aforefaid, and
within the jurifdidfion of this Court, wickedly, advifedly and
corruptly, did compofe, write, utter, and publifli, and caufe to
be delivered to the faid Tench Coxe, a letter, addreffed to him
the-faid Teneb Coxe, in the words and figures following, that is
to fay:
" Dear Bir,

"Having had thehonor of waiting on you, at different times,
on the light-houfe bufinefs, and having delivered a fair, honeft
,mltinate,
and I will be candid to declare, that with my diligent
CcC
and

CASES ruled and adjudged in the
1798. and induifrious attendance, and fometimes taking an a&ive part
Sin the work, and receiving a reafonable wages ior attending
the fame, I will be bold to. fay, that when the work is completed in the moll maiterly manner, the jobb will clear at the
ninifhing, the fum of £iooo. Now if your goodnefs will confider, that the fanme fctt of men that will be wanted for a fmall
part of one jobb will be neceffary for the other, and particularly
the carpe;ittus, and fiith for the iron work, and as they will
want a blackfrmith's fhop and a fett of tools at Cape Hatteras,
the other iron work might be made there, and fent acrofs the
found at a fmall cxpenc., which would make a confiderable faring.
"I have had this morning a fett of good carpenters, four in
number, as ever emigrated from the old country, as alfo feveral
flone inafons, offering themfelves to go to Carolina. As I told
ou about the fmith that I bad tngaged, he informed me that
e had'a fett of good fecond-hand tools offered him that might
be purchafed at a reafonable price-therefore, good fir, as hayingalways been brought up in a life of induitry, fhould be
happy in ferving you in the executing this job, and always content with a reafonable profit ; therefore, every reafonable perfon would fay that L 1400 was not unreafonable, in the two
jobs. If I fhould br fo happy in your recommendation of this
work, I fhould think myfelf very. utngrateful, if I did not offer
you one half of the profits a& above ftated, and would depofit
in your hand at receiving the firft payment £35o, and the other
350 at the'laft payment, when the work is finifhed and compleated. I hope you will not think me troublefome in afking
for a line on the bufinefs by your next return and will call for
it at the Poft-Office, or in Third Street. In the mean rime I
Thall fubfcribe myfelf to. be, your obedient and very humble
fervt. to command.
Robeg

-orra]X

Philadedhia, Sept. 28, 1797,
No. 26, North Third Street."
Which letter was direaed in manner following, that is to fay:
For Tench
f
oxe, Efq.
.44 Burlington near BrflRt,
Penttlvania.
"To the'evll example of others in the like cafe offending, and
againft the peace and dignity of the faid United Sti.ees.
"And theGrand Inqueft aforefaid, upon their refpelive oatibs
and affirmations, do further prefent, that Robert Worrall, late
of the fame diftri&, yeoman, being an ill difpofed perfoti, on
the 28th day of September, in the year aforefiid, in the diftri&
af6refaid, and within the jurifdi&ion of this Court, wickedly,
advifedly, and corruptly, did folicit, urge, and endeavour to
F~rocurq

Cmcu-r CouRtT; Penjfylvanla Diftri&.

387

procure Tench Coxe, Efq. he the faid Tench Coxe, then and there 1793.
being'Commiffioner of the Revenue of the faid United Stater,
and then and there interefted and employed in the execution of
the duties of the faid office, to receive propofals for con:ra6ling
to build a light houfe on Capt Hatteras,and a beacon on Shell
Carle ifland, to contra& with, and give a preference to him the
faid Rcbert Wor-a3l, for the building of the faid light houft and
beacon, and in order to prevail upon him, the faid Tench Coxe,
to agree to give him, the faid Robert Worrall, the preference in
and the benefit of fuch contra&, he the faid Robert Worrall,
then and there did wickedly, advifedly and corruptly, offer to
give the faid Tench Coxe, then and there being Ccummiffioner of
the Revenue of .the Unitid Stats, as afqrcfaid, a large fum of
money, to wit-the fum of Seven Hundred Pounds, .money of
Pennf/lvania, equal in value to 1866 dollars and 67 cents, in
contempt of the laws and. conftitution of the faid Unjied States,
to the evil example of others in the like c.fe offending, and
again!t the peace and dignity of the faid United States."
On the evidence, it appeared, that, in confequence of inftruaions from the Secretary of the Treafury, Mr. Coxe had
officially invited propofals, for ere~ling the Light--oufe, ec.
mentioned in the indi&ment, that the defendant prefented propofals ; and, while they were under confideration, he fent the
offenfive letter, which was dated at Philadelphia; but Afr' Coxe
having removed his office (in confequence of the Yellow F ever)
to Burlington, in the State of Arew-.7erfey, received the letter at
the latter place, on the 29th of September 1797,. with other difpatches from the Poft-Otlice of Bro/ol, in Ptnfylvania. On
the receipt of the letter Mir. Coxe immediately confulted Ir.
Ingerfoll (the Attorney General of the State,) communicated'the:
circumiftance that had occurred to the Prefident, and invited the
defendant to a conference at Burlington. In this conference,
the defendant acknowledged having written and fent the letter;
declared that no one else knew its contents, for "in bufinefs.
done in his chamber, he did riot let his left hand know, what
his right hand did"; and repeated the offer of allowing Mr.
Coxe a fhare in the profits of the tontraff. He then preffed
for an anfwer ; but was referred by 'AMr. Coxe to the period,
when. the public offices ihould be again opened in Philadelphia.
Accordingly, foon after the revival of buflnefs in the City, the
defendant called at Mr. Coxels office ; the vfhole fubjea was
gone over, 'and perfeafly recognized; the offer to give the money mentioned in the letter was repeated ; and, in the full.i.
manner, the defendant gave Mr. Cone to une~lerfland, that he
would allow £700, as a confideration for Mr. Coxes procuring:
Lim the contra&. It was not pofitively ftated, that the lettet
was produced to the defendant at this interview; but he adYerted toA and unequivocally confirmed, its contents.
CCCz

388
1798.
'

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

On there fa&s, H71.
Levy, for the defendant, obferved, that
it was not fufficient, for the purpofe of conviELion, to prove

that the defendant was guilty of an offence ; but the offence
muff, alfo, appear to 'be legally defined, and it muft have been
committed within the jurifdi&ion of the CouTt, which undertakes to try and punifl it. The 8th article of the amendments
to the Federal Conftitution (3 Iol. Swifi's Edit.p. 456) provides,
indeed, exprefsly, that "in all criminal profecutions, the accufed fhall enjoy the right to a fpeedy and public trial, by an
impartial Jury of the State, or Diftri&, wherein the crime thall
have been committed, &c." Now, in the prefent inflance,
there is no proof that the criminal letter was written in Pennjjlvania ; and the proof of publication ard delivery is at Burlington, in New-j'erfiy. The firft count of the indirment,
therefore, muff neceffarily fail; and unlefshe is convicted upon
that, he cannot bp convi&ed on the fecond count; which is attempted to be fupported, merely by evideice of recognizing in
Philadelphia, a corrupt offer previoufly made in another place,
out of the jurifdi&ion of the Court.
The Attorney of the Diftri& (Rawle) replied, that according to the decifion in Dr.Henzey's cafe (Burr.
) the letter
being dated -at Philadelphia, is, in itfelf, fufficient proof that it
was written there. But the letter was put into the Bry/olpoft
office by the defendant ; and, confequently, by his a&, done in
Penty)Uvania, it was caufed to be deliverefl to Mr. Coxe at Burlington. The.oppofite do&rine, indeed, would furnifh abfolute
impunity to every offender of this kind, whofe crime was not
commenced and confummated in the fame Diflri& : for, the
defendant, it is Ihid, cannot be punifhed in Pennfylvania, becaufe the letter was delivered to Mr. Coxe in New-Jerfey;'and,
by a parity of reafoning, he could not be puniflied in PewJerfey, becaufe it was neither written, nor delivered by him,
within the jurifdiion of that-State. To fhev that the offer
of a bribe is indictable, though the bribe is not, accepted, he
referred to 4 Burr. 2494. x Ld. Rayn. 1377.
'BY

THE

COURT :-The letter, appears by its date to have

been written in -Penn'fylvania; and it is aaually delivered by the
defendant at a poft office in Penfylvania. The writing and
.the delivery at the-Poft-Ofice (thus putting it, in the way to
be delivered to Mr. Coxe) m'uft be confidered, in effect, as one
a&; and, as far as refpe&s the defendant, it is confummated
within the jurifdiitiOn of the Court. We, therefore, think,
that the firit count in the indi&ment is fufliciently fupported.
But, on the. fecond count, there can be no poffible doubt, if
the teffimony is credited. "The defendant, in the city of Philadelphia, uneqUiVocally repeats, in words, the corrupt offer,
which, he had previoufly made to .Mr. Coxe in writing.
Verdiet-Guilty' en'both counts of the Indidment.
Dalla,

CuRCIT CouRT, Pennfylvata Diftrict.

389

Dallas, (who had declined fpeaking on the fa&s before the 1798.
Jury) now moved in arreft of judgment, alledging that the '-,
Circuit Court could not take cognizance of the crime charged
in th6 indi&ment. He prdmifed, that, independent of the
general queftion of jurifdi&ion, the indci&ment was exception.
able, in as much as it recited the a& of Congrefs, making it
the duty of the Secretary of the Treafury to fotm the contracs
contemplated, but did not Qate the authority for devolving that
duty on the Commiffioner of the Revenue; and, confequently,
it could not be inferred, that the corrupt offer was made to
feduce the Commiffioner," from tfie faithful execution of an
offcial pub/ic truft, which was the gift of the profecution. But,
he contended, that the force of the-objeaion to the jurifdiction, fuperfeded the neceffity of attending to matters of technical form and precifiori, in prefenting the accufation. It will
be admitted, that all the judicial authority of the Federal
Courts, muft: be derived, either from the Conftitution of the
United States, or from the Aas of Congrefs made in purfuance of that Coniftitution. It is, therefore, incumbent upon
the Profecutor to fhew, that an offer to bribe the Commifiloner
of the Revenue, is a violation pf fome Conftitutional, or Legiflative, prohibition. The Conftitution contains exprefr provifions in certain cafes, which are derignated by a definiti*on of
the crimes ; by a reference to the charaCers of the parties offending; or by the exciufive jurifdi&ion of the place wlhere
the offences were perpetrated, but'the crime of attempting to
bribe, the-charader of a Federal oficer, and the place, where
the prefent offence was committed, do not form any part of the
Con~ditutionalexprefsprovj/mnx, for the exercife of j udicial authority in the Courts of the Union. The judicial power, however, extends, not only to all'cafes, in law and equity, arifing
under the Conftitution.; but, likewife, to all fuch a. fhall arife
under the laws of the United States, (Vrt. 3. f. 2.) and befides the authority, fpccially veted in Congrefs." to pafs laws
for enumerated purpofes, there is a general authority given
" to make all laws which fhall be neceffary and proper for carrying into execution 211 the powers vefted by the Conftitution,
-inthe government of the United States, or in any department
or office thereof." (Art. i. See. 8.) Whenever, then, Congrefs think any provifion neceflary to effe&uate the Conftitutional power of the government, they may eftablifli it by law;
and whenever it is fb eftablifihed, a violation of its fa n*&ions will
come within the jurifdition of this Court, under the i rth $etion
of the Judicial A&, which declret, that the Circuit Court " flal
have exclufive cognizance of all crimes and offences cognizable
under the authority of the United States, &c." i. Yo. Swi's
Edit. p. 55. Thus,'Congrefs have provided by law, for te.
punifhm.ent

"0
i

CAss ruled and adjudged in the

,,79S . punifhment of Treafon, mifprifion of Treafon, Piracy, court-"
terfeiting any public Certificate, ftealing or falfifying Records,
&c ; for the punifiment of various crimes, when committed
within the limits of the exclufive jurifdi6tion of the United
States ; and for the puniflment of bribery itfelf in the cafe of
a Judge, an Officer of the Cuftoms, or an Oflicer of therExcife. ' . VoL Swift' Edit. p. xoo. Ibid. p. 236. f. 66. Ibid.
-.P. 327.fi 47. But in the cafe of the Commiffioner of the Revenue, the A& conftituting the office does npt. create or declare
the offence; 2. Jol p. i 12. f. 6. it is not recognifed in the A&l,
under which propofals for building the Light-houife were invited; 3. VoL p..63. and there is no other A& that has the
ilighteft relation to the fubje&.
Cin the offence, then, be faid to-arife under the Conflitution,
or the laws of the United States ? And, if not, what is there
to render it cognizable under the authority of the United
States? A cafe arifing under a law, muft mean a cafe depending on the expofition of a law, in refpe& to fpmething which
the law prohibits, or enjoins. There is no charaaerifti, of
that kind in the prefent inftance. But, it may be fuggeftcd,
that the office being eftablifhed by a law of the United States,
it ig an incident naturally attached to the authority of the United States, to guard the officer againft the approaches, of cot.
rtotion, in the executiori of his public truft. It is true, that
the perfon who ac~ept an office may be fuppofed to enter into.
a compa&t to be anfwerable to the government, which he ferves,
for any violation of his duty'; and, having taken the oath of
office, he would unqueftionably be liable, in fuch cafe, to a
profecution for perjury in the Federal Courts. But becaufe one
man, by his own a&, renders himfelf amenable to a particular
jdrifdiion, ihal1 another man, 'who has not incurred a fimilar
obligation, be implicated ? If, in other words, it iN fufficient
to veft a jurifdilion in this court, that a Federal Officer is con-.
cerned ; if it Is a fufficient proof of a cafe arifing under a law'
.of the United States to affe& other perfons, that fucli officer i&
bound, by law, to difcharge his duty With fidelity ,-a fourca
of jurifdidlion is opened, which muft inevitably -overflow and
defiroy all the barriers between the judicial authorities of the
State and the general govermuent. Any thing which can prevent a Federal Officer from the punaual, as well as from an
impartial, performance of. his duty ; ari af1lul and battery ; or
the recovery of a debt, as well as the offer of a bribe i may
'be made a foundation of the jurifdi&ion of this court; and,
confidering the conftant. difpofition of* power to extendi the
fphere of its" influ'ence, fiions'will be refforted to, when reaL
cafes ceafe to occur. A mere fiaionr, that the defendant is in,
the ciufody of the marlha, "has.readered th; jarifdiiion of the
"King's

Cricurr CouRT, P mjfoaxa Diftri&.

391 -

King'.r Bench univerfal in all perf6nal axions. Another fiction, 1798,
which faltes the Plaintiff to be a debtor of the Crown. gives
cognizance of all kinds of perfonal fuits to the Excequer:
And the mere profeffion of an Attorney attaches the privilege
of ruing and being fued in his oivn Court. If, therefore, te
difp6fition to amplify the jurifdi&ion of the Circuit .Court
exifts, precedents of the means to do fo are not wanting, and
it may hereafter be fufficitnt to fuggeft, that the party is a
Federal Officer, in order to enable this Court to try eveiy fpecies of crime, and to fuftain every &3efcription of a6tion.
But another ground may, perhaps, be taken to vindicate the
prefent claim of jurifdi6tion: it may b6 urged, tlht though the
offence is not fpecified in the Conflitution, nor defined in any
a&t of Congrefs; yet, that it is an offence at common law; and
that the common law is the law of the Uniied Siates, in caf"
that arife under their authority. The nature of our Federal
compacj will not, however, tolerate this do~trine. The iath
article of the amendment, flipulates, that "cthe powers not delegated to the United States by the conflitution, nor prohibited
by it to the States, are referved to the States- refpeaively, or
to the People." In relation to crimes and punifhiments, the
objets of the delegated power of the United States are enumerated and fixed. Congrefs may provide for the punifhment of
6ounterfeiting the fecurities and current coin of the UnitedStates
and may define and puniih piracies and felonies comhnirted on
the high feas, and offences againO. the law of nations. Art. r.
f. 8. And, fo, likewife Congrefs may make all laws which fliall
be neceffary and proper for carrying into execution the powers
of the general government. But here is no reference to a common law authority : Every power is matter of definite and pofitive grant ; and the very powers that are granted cannot take
effeCt until they are exercifed through the medium of a law.
Congrefs had undoubtedly a power to make a law, which fTould
render it criminal to offer a bxibe to the Commiflioner of the
Revenue i but not having made the law, the crime is not recognized by the Federal Code, conrftitutional or legiflative ;
and, confequently, it is not a fubject on which the Judicial
authority of the Union can operate.
The cafes-that have occurred, fince the eftablifiment of the
Federal Conflitutibn, confirm thefe general principles. 'rh
inditment againft H-etel,1 an American citizen, for enlifting
and ferving on board a French privateer, while fhe captured a
Dutch merchant fhip, &c. exprefsly charged the defendant
with a -iolation of the treaties exilting between the United
States

21)d

the United Netherlands, Great Britain, &c. %hich

is a matter cognizable under the Federal authqrity by the very
words of the onftitutiou. The jurifdition iWthe indiCkment
againft

392

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

T793. againft Ravaf-a, -was fuftained by reafon of the Defendant's
*

chara&er as Conful.
And in a recent profecution by
the State of Pennfilvania againfr fUealer, in the Mayor's
Court of Philadelphia, a motion in arreft of judgement was
over-ruled by the Recorder (Mr. Wilcocks) though the offence
confifted in forging claims to Land-Warrants,-iffuable under
the refolutions of Congrcfs ; and although the cognizance of
all crimes and.offences, cognizable under the authority of the
Union, is exchifively vefted in the Diftri& and. Circuit Courts
Rawle (the Attorney of the Diftril) obferved, that the exception, taken in fupport of the motion in arreft of. Judgement, firuck at -the root of the whole fyftem of the national
government 5 for, if oppofition to the pure, regular, and efficient adminiftration of its affairs, could thus be iade by fraud,
the experiment of force might"next be applied-; and doubtlefs
with equal impunity and fuecefs. He concluded, however,
that it, was unneceffary to reafon from the inconveniency and
mifcbief of the exception; for, the offence was ftii&ly within
the very terms of the Conftitution, arifing under the laws of
the United States. If no fuch offic& had been- created by the
laws of the United.States, no attempt to corrupt fuch an officer
- could hare
been made; and it is unreafonable to infift, that
merely becaufe a law has not prefcribed an exprefs and appropriate punifhment for the offence, that, therefore, the offence,
whexi committed, Thall not be punifhed by the Circuit Court,
upon the principles of common law punifbment. The effe&,
indeed, 6f the pofition is frill more injuious ; for, unlefs this
offence is punifhable in the Federal Courts, it certainly is not
cognizable before any State tribunal. The true poinu of view
for confidering the cafe, may be afcertained, by an enquiry,
whether, if Mr. Coxe hd "accepted the bribe, and betrayed
his, truft, he would not have been indidable in the Courts
of the United States ? If he would be fo indi&able, upon the
firongeft principles of analogy, the offence of the perfon who
texipted him, mufr be eqlily, the fiubjea of animadverfiori before the fame judicial authority. • The precedents cited -by the
Defendant's Counfel .are diftinguifhable from the prefent indi ment. - The profecution againft "-enyield was not exprefsly
on "the treaty, but on the law of nations, which is a part of
-the common law' of the United States; and the power of indi&ing, for a breach of treaty, not exprefsly providing the
means of enforcing performance in the particular inflance, is
itfelf a common law power. Unlefs the judicial fyftem of the.
United States juttified a recourfe to common law sgainft an
individual guilty of a breaqh-of treaty, the offence, where no
Sofficial

-

SSee Ont.9. .297.

fpeciiic

CIRWeIT CouR, Penlyfyvana DIfItia.

393

fpecific penalty was to be found in the treaty, would, therefore, 1798.
remain unpunifhed. So, likewife, with.refpet to Ravara, al- t
though he held the office of a Conful, he was indi&ed and.
punifhed at the common law. The offence charged in Refpublica v. Shir,did nct arife under the laws of the United States;

but was fimply the forgery of the names of private citizens,
in order to defraud them of their rights; and even as far as the
forgery might be fuppofed to deceive the public officers, it was
a deception in regard to a mere official arrangement, for afcertaining transfers of donation claims, and not in regard to any a&
dire&ed.by law to be performed. But a further diftin&ion
prefents itfelf. The donations to the foldiers were founded
upon refolutions, of the United States in. Congrefs, paffed long
before the adoption of the prefent Contlitution. The Courts
of the feveral States the!refore held a jurifdi&ion of the offence,
which, without pofitive words or neceffary implication, was not
to be divefted. The cafe did not come within the expreffions
in the Conflitution, " cafes.ariling under the Conflitution and
laws of the United States," &c. nor has it been e&prefsly
provided for by any a& under the prefent Conftitution. The
criminal jurifdi&ion of the Circuit Court, which, wherever it
exifts, muft be exelufive of State jurifdi&ion, cannot, perhaps
fairly be held to operate retrofpeeively, by withdrawing, from
the State Judicatures powers they held, and duties they per.
formed, previoufly to the Conifitution, from which the Circuit
Court derived its birth.
CRASE, Juflice. Do you mean, Mr. Attorney, to fupport
this indiament folely at common law ? If you do, I have no
difficulty upon the fubjea : The inditment cannot be maintained in this Court.
Rawle, anfwering in the affirmative, CHAsE, 7ujice, flopped
Al. Levy, who was about to reply, in fupport of the motion in
arreft of judgment; and delivered an opinion to the following
eflecat.
CHASE, J7ffiice.

This is an indi~lment for an offence high-

ly injurious to morals, and defervin& the fevereft punifhmeit5
but, as it is an indi~tment at common law, I difmifs, at once,
every thing that has been faid about the Conflitution and Laws
of the United States.

In this country; every man fuftains a two-fold political capacity; one in relation to the State, and another in relation to the
United States. In relation to the State, he is fubje&l to various
munitipal regulations, founded upon the State conflitution and
policy, which do not affe&t him in his relation to the United
States: For, the Confdfution of the Union, is the fource of all
the jurifdition of the national government ; fl that the departsents of the government can never affinme any power, that is
Ddd
not

394

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

-i798. not exprefsly granted by that inftrument, nor exercife a power
%
in any other manner than is there prefcribed. Befides the par.
ticular cafds, which the 8thfeRion of the i f article defignates,
there is a power granted to Congrefs to create, define, and punifh, crimes and offences, whenever they fhall deem it neceflery
and proper by law to do fo, for effe&uating-the obje6ts of the
government ; and although bribery is not among the crimes and
offences fpecifically mentioned, it is certainly included in this
general provifion. The queftion, however,.does not arife about
the power; but about the exercife- of the power :-Whether
the Courts of the United States can punifh a man for any a&,
before -it is declared by a law of the United States to be criminal?
Now, it appears to my mind, to be as effential, that Congrefs
thould define the offences to be tried, and apportion the puniihOients to be infliied, as that they thould ere& Courts to try
the criminal, or to pronounce a fentence on convi&ion.
It is attempted, however, to fupply the filence of the Conflitution and Statutes of the Union, by reforting to the Common
law, for a definition and punifhment of the offence which has
been committed: But, in my opinion, -the United States, as a
Federal government, have no common law; and, confcquently,
vo indictmert 'can be mhintained in their Courts, for offences
merely at the common-law. If, indeed, the United States can
be fuppofed, for-a moment, to have a common law, it muf, I
prelume, be that of England-; -ard, yet, it is impoffible to trace
when, or how, the fy~fem was adopted, or introduced. With
zefpe& to the. individual States, the difficulty does not occur.
When thd American colonies we'e firft fettled by our anceftors,
it was held, as well by the fettlers, as by the Judges and lawyers of England,' that they brought hither, as a birth-right and
inheritance; fo much of the common law, as was applicable to
their local fituation, and change of circumitances. But each
colony judged for itfelf, what- parts of the common lawwere
applicable to its new condition ; and in various modes, by
Legiflative aas, by Judicial decifions, or by conflant ufage,
adopted fome parts, and reje6ked others. Hencei he who fhall
travel through the different States, will foon "difcover, that the
whole of the common law of England has been no where ino
troduced ; that fome States have rejected what others have
adopted; and that there is, in fhort, a great- and eflential diverlity in the fubjeals to which the common law is applied, as
well as in the, extent of its application. The common law,
therefore, of one State, is not the common law of another; but
the common law of England, is the law of eadh State, fo far as
each fiate, has adopted it - and it refults from that pofition, conve&ed with the Judicial aat, that the common law will always
apply to fuits between citizen and citizen, whether they-are in%Ritutedin a Fcderal; or State, Qburt.
But

t meire CotR2', Pennyhvania Diftri.

39;

Buf the queftion recurs, when and how, have the Court; of r
the United tater acquired a comifon law jurifdi&ion, in crimi- k- ntal cafes? The United States muft poffefs the common law
themfelves, before they can communicate it to their Judicial
agents: Now, the United States did not bring it with them
from England; the Conflitution does not create it'; and no ack
of Congrefs has affumed it. Befides, what is the common law
to which we are referred ? Is it the common law entire, as it
cxifts in'England; or modified as it exifts in fome of the States;
and of the various triodifications, which are we to fele&, the
fyi-fem of Georgia or New Hamffi7e, of Pennflvania or Con.
Upon the whole, it may be a defe& in our political infiitutions, it may be an inconvenience in the adminiflration of juflice, that the common law authority, relating to crimes and
punifhments, has not been conferred upon the government of
the United Stater, which is a government inother rcfpels alfa
of a limited jurifdiaion : but Judges cannot remedy political
imperfe6tions, nor fupply any Legiflative omifion. I will not
fay whether the offence is at this time cognizable in. a State
Court. But, certainly, Congrefs might have provided, by law,
for the prefent cafe, as they have provided for other cafes, of
a fimilar nature; and.yet if Congrefs had ever declared an?
defined the offence, without prefcribing a punifhment, I thoula
Rill have thought it improper to exercife a difcretion upon that
part of the fubje&.
PETERS, 7uflice.

Whenever a government has been efta-

blifhed, I have always fuppofed, that a power to preferve itfelf,
was a neceffary, and an infeparable, concomitant. But the exiftence of the Federal government would be precarious, it could
no longer be called an independent government, if, for, the puniflimnnt of offences of this nature, tending to obhtru& and pervert the adminiftration of its affairs, an appeal muft be made
to the State tribunals, or the offenders muft efcape with abfolute impunity.
The power to punifh mifdemeanors, is originally and ftrifly
a common law power; of which, I think, the United States are
contitutionally poffeffed. It. might have been exercifed b,
Congrefs in the form of a Legiflative a6t ; but, it may, alfo,
in my opinion be enforced in a courfe of Judicial proceeding.
Whenever an offence aims at the fubverfion of any Federal inflitution, or at the corruption of its public officers, it is an offence againft the well-being of the United States; from its very
nature, it is cognizable under their authority ; and, confequently, it is within the jurifdi&ion of this Court, by virtue of tlw
xitbfreioa of 'the Judicial a&.
DddT

396

CAW:

rule4 "a- diudged in th&

.1798.
The Court being divided in opinion),it became a doubt, whe.
%wo%
ther fentence could be pronounced upon .the defendant ; and a
wiffh was expreffed by the Judges and the -Attorfiey of the Di,
ftric, that the eafe might be put intq fuch a form, as would ad..
mit of obtaining the ultimate decifion.of the Supreme Court,
upon the important principle of the difcuffion: But the coun.
fel for the prifoner did not think themfelves authorifed to enter
into'a compromife of ;hat nature. The Court, after a ihort
confultation, and declaring, that the fentence was mitigated in
confideration of the defendant's circumfiances, proceeded to
adjudge,
That tie defendant be imprifoned for three months ; that he
pay a fine of 2oo dollars ; and- that he' ftand committed, 'till
this fentence be complied with, and the colts of profecution
j~aid.

HOLLINGSWORTH .verfts ADAWS.

OREIGN ATTACHMENT returnable td 'the prefent
Term. The defendant was flated to be a citizen of De-.
laware, in the proccfs which had ifflued; and M. Levsy, having
produced an affidavit in proof of that fa&, moved to quafh the
writ, on the ground, that the Federal Courts had no jurifdiction, in cafes of Fore;gnAttachment. By the r i th fleion of the

Judicial ad (i Fol. Swift's Sdit.p. 55) it is exprefsly provided,

that "no perfon fhall be arrefted in one fliftrid for tria in
another, inany civil adion before a Circuit, or Diftrid, Court:
And no ci-il.fwt fhall be brought before either of the fiid
Courts againft'an inhabitant of the United States, IY any original
,rocffs, in any other di/trit? than taJW .whereofhe isan inhabitant,or
it,which he Jhallbefound at the time of ferving the writ." Now,

this is a civil fuit, brought here by original procefs againft the defendant, who is an inhabitant of another diftri6, and was not
found in Pennfylvania at the time of frrving the writ.
. .
Tbomas and Hallowell, on- behalf of the plaintiff, wifhed for
time to enquire into the prad"tice; out not being able on the next
day to alfign any fatisfatory reafon in maintenance of the a6dion,
Ti-ir COURT direated the writ to be quafhed with colts.
WILImNSON e a?. veifusNiCKLlN et a.

'THIS was an adlion brought.by the Indorfees of'a Bill of ExI change, drawn by AJl'OlenaehanandAloore, upon George

Rarc!ay,

of Lcudon, in favor of the defendants, and by them indorfed

