2
1793
V

C

A

gsEs ruled and adjudged in the

16

du&1 of the garnifhee himfelf, fuch cafes will form exceptions
to the general rule. In the prefent inftance, however, there is
no proof of fraud, or collufion.; nor of any wilful procraftination on the part of the gainifhee ; and fraud can never be
.prefumed. It 'is true, likewife, that no exprefs authority was
given. for laying the attachmrnts ; but an implied authority appears in the correfpondence that has been produced: And the
defendant is not anfwerable for :the event. Iam, therefore, of
opinion that. intereft ought not to be allowed.
SHiPPEN, Jutice. Evidence *ill often ftrikd6different minds
in a different maine'r. It does not appear to me, that there was
fufficient authority for inffituting the foreign attachment; but,
on the contrary, that it 'Was done officioufly, and at the inftance
of the garnifhee himfelf. I fhould, confequently, think itjuft,
on this occafion, to allow the claim of intereft ; but the majority of the Court will fan6tion a different decifion.
YEAras, yujqice. I concur, generally, in the opinion expreffed by the Chicd"Juftice, that there is not fufficient ground
to except the prefent cafe from the operation of,the general
rule.
BkADFORD, 7u/tice. As I was originally Counfel in this
caufe, I forbear taking any part in the decifion.
By THE COURT :-It is-awarded, that the defendant be difcharged, upon payment of the principal funr recovered, with
colts.*
.anuaryt

A writ of error was brought by the Plaintff; and on the S8th
- Jfluly 1793, the HiGH COURT OF ERRORS AND APPeALS delivere&
the following judgmeat.
.
Br THE CoURT :-Aftar making confideration and due deliberation,
it is confidered by the Cour~t here-if. That the laft judgment or
decretal order of the Supreme Court "That Andrev Galdwell flhall b,
difcharged fronm.the faid judgment on the payment of f4o 6 9s. 4 d

to'wit, the principat fum found due to Vance, Cald6ell Z€ t'ance, by
the fecond report of the referees, and all colts of fuit," be reversed.

2d. That the judgment in the Supreme Court rendered in the Ternr
of Ttnuars" 1791, iii favor of George Fitzgerald,the plaintiff in Errorf
for the furt ofrSoo9 Ss. xd. with the cos of luit, and by agreement
of the parties, qated, in the Record, made abfolute in .anuary Term,
-792,. be, and the fame is hereby, according to'the terms of the Laid
agrerment, affirmed and made .siable.
11e record was thereupon remitted to the Supreme Court.

