276$

CAsEs ruled and adjudgcd in the

'797. a&ually delivered ; and Ihave never heard of any law, in any
vy... civilized nation, that deemed it contraband, or unlawful, to carry
a few, unarmed, invalid foldiers, to a neutral country, in purfuit
of health and refiefliment.
A fourth ground of defence has beeh taken, upon thit confi-"
deration, that the houfehold furniture of the paffengers came
-within the defeription of the cargo of the veffel; and, therefore,
the warranty had not been firitly performed. I confefs, that
I agree in the general idea, that houfeliold furniture cannot be
regarded as baggage, and muft conftitute a part of the cargo;
but ftill, to admit this exception, under the peculiar circumftances of the fhipment, would be too indulgent to a harfh and captious fpirit of litigation; nor, throughout the biftory of Admiralty proceedings, can there be traced a fingle inftance of cbndem1atibn, for fuch a caufe.
Jpon the whole; it is our opinion, that the plaintiff is entiled
to recover the amount of both Policies.
Verdi'c for the Plaintiff.*
YOUNG -verfus W fLINa, et. a.

T1794,

fTIS was an a&ion of Trover, infituted in Septemberterm,
to' recover the value, of certain public certificates,
wvhich the plaintiff claimed as his property. It appeared on the
trial, however, that he had fold the certificates to the defendants
in November 1784, that his prefent claim was founded on a
fuppofed difaffirmance of the fale (the circumfmances of which
it is unneceffary to ftate) when the certificates were difcovered
to be counterfeit in the month of Deembei following; and that
the a&ion was inftituted in his own name, though he had been
difeharged under the laws for the-relief of infolvent debtors, in
ptember 1785, after making a general affignment of his pro.
Vertyi for the benefit of his creditors. On the'opening of the
4efence, THE Couf.T thought the merits were in favor of the
defendantsi
At the clo'e oftl4 charge, 'fl!ghrman''laimned leave to tender a
'bill of exceptions, becaufe the Court did not dire& the Jury, in point
of law, to cenfider the decree as conchuive.
CouRir :.-We do not fa y what would have been our opitllma
Mion, if the decree had exprefsly condenned the property as Frencb:
but, in its prefentfRate, we do not think it conclulive, to pre,,ent ev i
tence that the cargo was a~tiallv neutral.
The defendant afterwards mov-ed for a new trial, but it was rerufed.
le tbeit breugt a writ bf error; but, on the I 3 th of _Wiy .i797, thq
tea inslhagwe of the vcrdit,.wAs arfrmed,
.,jud Fwezt

SUPReME CoURT oF Pennfyvania.

277

defendants; but being of opinion, that, at all events, the a&ion 1797.
could not be mantained in the plaintiff's name, they dire&ed
a non-fuit; which was, accordingly, entered.
Willcocks, Riwle and Ha/owell, for the Plaintiff. .kgerfoll,
Lewis and Dallasfor the defendants.
D'CARTY verfus EMLEN.

.HIS adion was brought to September term, 1789, by the
plaintiff, as furviving partner off Cumihgs, to recover a
I
debt due to the partnerfiiip. On the 4 th of M1arch 1793, the
matters in difput.e were referred; on the 2ift of ?anuary 1795,
there was a report filed, finding ,, 165 oft i. in favor of the
plaintiff; and thereupon judgment ny/ was entered. But, it
appeared, that a ForeignAttachment had been iffued, in the Philadeipkia Common Pleas, returnable to Aarch term 793, in the
name of Elizabeth Pringle,adminiftratrix of Yohn Pringle,againft
MIilliam .M'Carty, the prefent plaintiff, for a debt due by him
'in his feparate, individual capacity, to the deceafed inteftate;
and that the attaclIment had been ferved upon effe&s &c. in
the hands of Emlen, the prefent defendant; who was a debtor to
the partn~rfhip of MUCarty & Cummings, .but did not owe any
*thing to McCarty in his feparate right.
" On the 24 th of January 1795, E. Tilghman & WTicocks, for
the defendant, obtained a rule to fhew caufe, why the execution
in this a&ion, fhould not be flayed, until an indemnification is
had againft the foreign attachment of Pringle,adminiftratrix v.
M'"Carty. And, after argument, upon a cafe, flating the pre2
ceding fads, (Ingerfoll appearing for the plaintiff) the Judges
delivered their opinions, feriatin, t6 the following effe&:
M'KEA.N, Chief.7uflice. The queftion in this caufe, is-whether the debt due from Em/en to the late partnerlhip of McC'arty.
Cummings, has been fecured by the foreign attachment,-in
favor of M'Cartys feparate creditor, or can only be difcharged
by a payment to the furviving partner ?
Two obje&ions are urged againft the claim uider the attach.
ment :-ift. That ihe prefent 'a&ion was commenced by the
furviving partner, before the attachment was laid ; and a debt
in fuit is n3t attachable. 2d.'That the attachment is brought
to recover a debt due from McCarty in his feparate capacity ;
whereas the debt attached is due from the garnifhee to the company off'f'Carty & Cummings; and the partnerfhip debts-(which,
it is faid, are not yet fettled) muff firft be paid out of the partnerlhip funds.
But, it is to be obferved on thefflg objeion, that, although
a debt in ftit is not attacliabloin Eng/and, becaufe the fuperior
Coturt8

