CAsrs ruled and adjudged in the
1781.

April Term, 1781.
RESPUBLICA Verf t$ lICCAr.TY.*

HE defendant was indided for High-Treafon, in levying
war, &c. by joining the armies of the King of Great-

T

Britain.

On the trial, the Attorney General offered to give the confef-fion of the party in evidence made at'he time of his arraigrrment; but Ingerfoll objeded, that a confeffion could only be
admitted to be given in evidence by way of corroboration, and
that, therefore, an overt a& fhould be firft proved. F7o/. io.
240.

Bradford, Attorney General, contended, that the confeffion
proved by two witneffes was of itfelf fufficient ; but that, independent of that pofition, it was not neceffary to prove the overt
a&, before the admifliou of the confeffion ; and he referred to
5 Bac. 4br. 152.
BY THE COURT :-No cafe of this kind has hitherto occurred ii this Court. In the cafe of the Commonwealth v. Roberts.
(a.) The defendant's confeflon was offered merely to fhew quo
ammo he committed the treafonable aat ; and the Court were
there of opinion, that it ought to be admitted as corroborative
proof. We find, indeed, that in Berwick's cafe, 2y7. io, two
Judges thought that a confeftion after the factl, proved by two
witneffes, was fufficient to convift, within the 7 I. 3 : But
Juftice Fofler doubted the propriety of that opinion ; as the
fa"tute feemed to require two witneffes to the overt a&s, or a
conreflion in open Court.

The ftatute of 7 WV. 3. on which that diverfity of fentment arofe, does not, however, extend to. Pennfylvania; but
materially varies from our law on the .fubje&. For inftance,
the at of Parliament requires two witneffes to find the indi&ment, as well as to prove the overt a& upon the trial: But'the
a& of Affembly prefcribes nothing about the.evidence to find the
indi~tmentiwhich maytherefore, proceed either from onewitnefs,
or
'

This indi&ment was tried at a Selion of Oyer & Terminer, held at

Philadelphia,in April 2781. As the Judges were the fame who prefided in the Supreme Court, it has not been thought neceffary. in any
other way to diftinguifh the tribunals.

(a.) - Dal. Rep. 39.;

SUPREME COURT or Pennfy5vania.

br from any other kind of proof, that will ferve to convince'the 173 r.
Grand Jury ; and although it declares that there fhall be two witneffes to convi& the defendant on his trial, it does not fpecify,
that'they fhall be witneffes to an overt a&, or any other particular matter. Again: The ftatute of 7i7 3". pro-ides for the
cafe of a confeffion cc willingly, 'without violence, in open Court ;"
whereas the a&t of Aflembly ufes no fuch words.
Certain it is, that confidered abftra&edly at common law,
the confeffion of the'party would be fufficient proof to convi&
him. But, upon the whole, we decline giving an opinion at this,
time, whether, taking into view the a6 of Affembly, the confeffion, proved by two witneffes, can have fuch conclufive force.
We do not hefitate, however, to receive it in corroboration of
any other evidence that may be adduced in fupport of the profecution.
'The evidence and arguments of Counfel being concluded, the
Chief Juftice delivered the following charge to the Jury.
M'KEAN, C. J.-The crime imputed to the defendant by
the indi&ment, is that of levying war, by joining the armies of
the King of Great Britain. Inlifing,. or procuring any perfon
to be enliffed, in the fervice of the enemy, is clearly an a& of
treafon. By the defendant's own confeffion'it appears, that he
-a&ually enlifted in a corps belonging to the enemy ; but, it
alfo appears, that he had previoufly been taken prifoner by
them, and confined at Wilmington. He remained, however,
with the Brity. troops for ten or eleven months, during which
he might eafily have accomplifhed his efcape ; and it muft be
.remembered, that, in the eye of the law, nothing will excufe
the a& of joining an enemy, but the fear of immediate death;
not the fear of any inferior perfonal injury, nor the apprehenflon of any outrage upon property. But- had the defendant
enlifted merely from the fear of famifhing, and with a fincere intention to make his efcape, the fear could not furely always continue, nor could his intention remain unexecuted fgr fo long a
period.
In the prefentinftance, the confeffion of the defendant was not
taken in writing and fubfcribed : But the ftatute of ift.
and 2d.
Philip& Mary,c. io.is in force inPenqfylvania; and, asin common cafes it is fufficient for the purpofes of evidence, if a man fubfcribes his examination before a Magiftrate, fo in the cife of a
treafon, a confeffion reduced to writing and fubfcribed before
a Juftice and another witnefs, would be fufficient grounds for a
coniriffion under our a&' of Affemblyi or even under the ha*
tute of V. 3. At the time of William's landing in England,
James fill maintained a ftrong party; of whom fome were to
be found in the Houfe of Lords, and fome in the Hoft of Coinmom. The fta te was, probably therefore, framed, fo as to be
moft

88

C~ sps rulednd adjudged in the

1781. moft favorable to thofe who efpoufed the caufe of the invading
,yf-vj Monarch i and hence we may derive all the provifions, which,
on a charge of high treafon, make two witnefles neceffary to the
fame overt a&, or to two different- overt a~ts of the fame treaton, or the confeiion of the deiendant in open Court. 5 Bac.
Abr. J45.. It appears, however, as I have before intimated,
that it has'been decded that a confeffion, though not made in
open Court, if made in the prefence of two witneffes, may- be
read in evidence againft the defendant, contrary to the opinion
of the Chief Juftice Trevor, and the doubts of Juftice Tracy.
5 Bac. Abr. 152.

7. 1o. 240.

The cafe in 5 Bac. muft

have been the cafe of an examination in writing, as it is faid it
might be read in evidence: But Berswick's cafe was a confeffibn
at the time of the fa& ; fo that the former had no. conclufive influence on the latter authority.
It muft, at the fame time, be allowed, that moft of the authorities on this point, feem to lean againft the admiffion of the
pariy's confeffion in the prefence of two witneffes, as fufficient
for cohvi~tion', unlefs it is m-ide at the time of committing the
criminal a&f, or before a Magiftrate duly authorifed. But the
cafe now before us, arifes on a confeffion in open Court, and
though the whole confeffion muft be confidered together ; yet
the Jury may, unqueftionably, on this, as on every other, point of
evidence, believe one part, and difregard another.
Verdia, NOT GUILTY.

November Seffion, 1781.

RESPUBLICA verftts

WEIDLE.*

T

H[S was an indiEment for mifprifion of Treafon,. in the
defendant's fpeaking the following words-" that he had
lived fix years in London, and nine years in.Ireland; and pever
lived happier in his life, than he had done under the Engly/
government ; and that the, King of England is, our King, and
* This cafife was tried at a Seffion of 0yer 67'

Lancater,in November x781.

will
terminer, held at

See the note to the prereeding cafr.

