CASES ruled and adjudged in the

94

ButAnY THE COUEt :-Eje6ments- are poffefory a~ions;
z.786.
and in England it is necefflary to fhew a poffeffion. within twen"
-;
may, therefore, fliew the poffeffioh of
ty years. The plaintiff
Mr. Callander or of any other perfon under whom he Iaims,.
within that term ; and, in order to do fo, he cirtainly is at libeity to give. proof, that the perfon, under whom the defendant
claims, was, in fa&, inothing more than Mr. Callande-s Tenant
on fufferance.'" Let the evidence be admitted.
2. It was.obje&ed, on the-part of the defendant, that the
.Fi. Fa. by viitue of which the lands in queftion had been fold,
only dire&ed the jheriff rto levy of the goods and chattels, &c.which is not an authority to take the lands in execution.
BY TH CouRT :-Lands are to be confidered as chattels in
Penfylvania, for the payment of debts. In fome 'countie' of
this State, and throughout the State of .Delaware, the writs of
Fi. Fa. always iffue in that form. It is laid, that ther precedents mention" Lands and Tenements" ; but this has not been
proved, as it ought to be,. by producing in Court fuch precedents before, at the time, and fubfequent, to the iffuing of the
* writ. At moft, however, it is but an omiffion, in point ofform;
which is too Blender a foundation for overfetting a fheriffs fale
of lands.
Wifon,. for the Plaintiff. Y'eates and Smith, for the Defendant.
.
PENNINGTON 'verfus ScoT-.r

rtIVHIS caufe being marked for:trial, the defendant moved'to

. J pofpone it, upon an affidavit, ftating, " that'he took out

afubpxena three weeks'ago, as foon as the time for liolding the

Court was known., and immediately employed one Rabb to ferve
it joi the witnefs, who lived at a diftance ; that he had; likewife,

" fent, by'the meffenger, a letter to his Brother, requefting him to
fee that thefiibpzrna was ferved, and the %vitnefsexpedited, in
cicafe of aniy aceidnt to Rabb; that the witnefs was material,
without whbfe tefmony, the defendant could not fafely go to.
trial ; that -Rabb a4 n6t returned, nor had the defendant heard
any thing Qf him fince his departure ; andfthat he thinks it probable tha t the attendance of the witnef might be procured at the
next Court."
"ae:.infifted, that the defendant muft produce afubpena,.

and prove the fervice of it, in order to bring his cafe within the

general rule..

But) By THE CouRT :--It appears that as f~on as the defendant h2d -notice of thetime &ftrial, he ookout" a fuP&-na for
Rut dat Lafedsrer Nisi P'i*s.

SUPREME COURT OF PeftnfjlVania. ,95

a wltnefs at a great diftance inWaf/jington County ; but that neither the witnefs, nor the perfon employed to ferve the fubpxena,
attends.
This would not, in ftri&nefs, be a fufficient
ground for putting off the caufe: But it muft be rememn,
bered, that the defendant, once before, at a confiderable expence,
brought the fame witnefs to Court ;. and when the caufe was
continued, without any fault imputable to him, he took the witnefs's depofition. Having thus, on a former, as well as on the
pcefent, occafion, purfued every preparatory "Rep,which the
law requires, to procure the attendance of the witnefs, we
think it would be unreafonable to take advantage ofany accident,
that may have happened to. the meffenger.

GALBRAITH'S

Leffee VerfUr

SCOTT.*

N this caufe, it appeared that a devife had been made of
certain premifes to A, provided, if he aliens it to any other
perfon than his brother's children, he fhould pay -one fourth parf
of the purchafe money to the teftator's refiduary legatee. The
prefent ejeCment was depending between the devifee, and one
claiming paramount to the devife v and the refiduary legatee,
was offered as a witnefs on behalf of the plaintiff.
It was contended by B;radford and Chambers, for the defendant, th.at the witnefs ought not to be admitted :- And they cited
2 Cun. Law, Diet. 3 Burr. r856. It Mod. 225. 2 If Is.
332. 1 Stra. 507. Bull. A. P. 279. 1 Strt. 575.
On the contrary, Wi/bn and Teates, maihtained the compe•tency of -the Witnefs. Cro. 7j: 460. Hob. 170. Moore. 88r.
I Sall- 283. Bu"I. 279. 286. Tneory of Evid. 225.
Br THE COURT :-The intereft of the refiduary legatee is,
in this cafe, .fo very remote, that we cannot prefume it will have
any bias upon his mind. He muft, therefore, be admitted as
a competent witnefr ; leaving his credibility to the Jury.
CEcIL's LefIee verfits LEBENSTON.*

defendant was tenant for years of the prenifes, for
which theieje&ment was brought, and one Courtney.claimedithe fee. The caufe was not included in the general dj/trinLms -whichJaad ifud fortrials, at this Court of WVzif Prius ; but
a 1peciai djflringas afterwards came up for' it. Neither the
,4fendantt, nor Courtnoy, howeter, had received exprefs or imrHE

* Ruled z Lancaer.Misi P-'.
* Rukd at 2isi Prius.

plied

1786.

