Crses ruled an& adjudged in the

15-

1792. in other'cafes, will not do in fuch a cafe as this, bnce the cuf.._

-v~-'-,torn among merchants is oppofed to it as appears from all the'
writers and colle&ors of cafes, from the.report by Ld. Raym.
until the prefent time. There is a cafe referred to, in 3 Term,
Rep. p. 127. which alfo confirms this do&rine.
Let judgment be entered *for the defendant, as in cafe of a,
noqn-fuit.
FOXCRAFT veifus NAGLE.

W
vv~Tilghman moved for a

ITHIN the .four firft days of the term,. Ingerfoll and
new trial on the point of a
rnifdirefion of the j udge.* Serjeant obje&ed to the rule, no
notice in writing of the intended motion having been given, as
is required by the rules of the Court. The counfel for the
plaintiff then urged; that tie point they wiflhed to agitate was
left open by, the Court, and referved for argument in Bank ; at
leaft, that they underftood it fo, and that they did not confider
notice as neceffary, where a liberty of moving the point was
referved in the prefence of the parties at Nfzj Prius. But, at any
rate, the miftake was a fufficient ground to difpenfe with the
ftri&nefs of the rule. In 4 Burr. 2271. the miftake of the
attorney inducedthe Court to difpenfe with the four day rule. Serjeant. In the rule of the K. B. there is aprovifion that fuch a motion may be made after the four days, " on fpecial leave being
aJked and obtained."

BY

THE

COURT :-There was no point referved on the

trial of this caufe.

The Court had no dohbt in their minds.

but, as it was a great national queftion, we fhould have had
no objefion to a more folemn argument. We, therefore,
told the 7ury, that if the plaintiff's counfel defired to have
the queftion' re-confidered, they would have an opportunity
of moving it at the retutrn of the P2flea. This motion is direffly in*the face of the rule, and cnnoqt be fuftained.
Rule refufed..
CLAYToN's Lefioe

eriz. ALsiiousL

HIS caafe was carried down for trial, at the laft Njfl Przus in NorthumiberlavdCounty ; but the defendant refufing
j
to confefs leafe, entry, and oqf/er, the plaintuf was non-fuited.
*

See. ant,.

3z.

