SuruME- ComPr or Pent,5lvanh.
1792.

January Term, 1792.

'

HOOD'S Executors -t. NEsiT, et. at.
HIS was an afidn (tried at the fittings in Philadedphha.Au
Nov. ]at) brought on a policy of infurance on the fihip
America, commanded by captain W. Keeler, from Philadelphia,
to, at and from Fayal, againi the defendants as underwriters.
The jury found a fpecial verdi&; which, after Rating the policy,
the defendants' fubfcription, and the arrival of the fhip at Fayal,
on the 23 d December 1785, proceeds thus : "And the faid jturors further fay, that about three weeks after the faid l.illia.t
Keeler had fo arrived at .Fayal, in the faid fhip, he the faid Wvilliam Keeler, at the requeft of a certain captain Barnes, on the foggeftion of Duncan Rofs did with and on board the faid- ihip
America, fail from the faid ifland, in queft and purfuit of a
certain iloop called the Fly, whereof the faid Barnes was mater ;
which faidifloophad been run awa with by the feamen,belonging
to her : and that the faid WilliamKeeler did return from the Laid
purfuit, in the faid Ihip, within &daya after fle hAd failedfrom
Fayal aforefaid; and that the faid.fhip afterwards, on the 3 1ft of
$Yanuar x7 86, was/,by tform and tempeft, wrecked upon the
fland of Fayal-and'totally loft. And the jurors further find,
that the faid I. Keeler, by his agreement with the faid captain
Barnes, was to h,'e received, as a cbmpenfation for his fervices'
in going with the fhip Anlerica aforefaid, in purfuit of the aid
floop, the fum of /*ioo iferling; and that in going from the
ifland of Fayl aforefaid, he had no view of, and did not intend,
ny exclufive profit or advantage to himfelf; but did intend-that
the benefit and advantage to be derived therefrom, fhould be for
the owners of the f~id flip and himfelf. And whether the law
be for the plaintiffs- &c. &c. they Eubmit, &c. &c."
. The caufe was argued by Lewis, and Sergeant for -the Plainiffs, and by Wilcocke and Ingerfoll for the Defendants.
The PlaintifFs contended, that the depaiure froni the courfe
of the voyage.amounted to barratryj and could not be confidered
as a mere deviation. As the confent of the owners is not Rated, it cainot be prefumed, and in many ofthe cafes the want.oif
confent is relied on as a principal ingredient in barratry. It is not
neceffiiry there lhquld be a dire& evil intention: Lataculpa& cralw
nrg[Ienrawill amount to barratry. Parke 9$: Barratry is neglt6t

138
1792.

CAsns ruled and adjudged in 'the

of duty. Every wilful and inexcufable departure is a grofs breach

~ of dutyand amounts to barratry. Ibid.9 3 . It is Laid, he intended

to benefit his owners as well as h imfelf; but to conftrue this as aft
excufe would be produfive of fraud. The mafter may eafily
pretend great zeal for his owner's interefts, and yet faciifice them'
to promote his own. In the definition given by Parke, it is faid
P- 94, it muft be "tending to his own benefit" : This does not
mean exclufive benefit. The maiter runs no rilk himfelf by going out, but he might get £5 by it ; while he hazarded his
owner's infurance, the mere premium of which was almoft
equal to the price he was to get, for giving chafe to the Fly.
The words of Parke,'p.94, are "If it is for the benefit of his
owners, and notfor his own benot, it is no barratry." But here the
departure was with a view to his own privat q advantage. He
fabrifices the policy, wages, provifions and the fafety of the ihip,
for a paltry expetation of private gain. A mere error might
excufe:; but here it is very different, and if the principle be efrablifhed there will be no fecurity for owners. The cafes put in
tie books, fhew that the principle contended for by the defend..
ants is not found. Deferting a fhip is barratry. Parke93-"So
when the,mafter of a fhip defrauds the owners by carrying the
fliip a different courfe." Po/l. DieT. His intereft is out of the
queftion. So failing out of port without payment of the duties,
;s barratry, though the mafter gains nothing by it: And Juifice
Builer feemed to think (Parke 103.63) that breach of an embargo
(tho' perhaps done with a view to the owner's intereft) was barratry. But-when he has his own gain in view, the cafe is ironger ; nothing but pure intentions can purge the a& : And in
Vellege & W-eeler, Parke Ioo, flrefs is laid on the circumftance,
that the mafter wa afing for his own benefit.
On the part of the defendant, it was urged, that 'here was a
plain deviation flated, and unlefs the departure was clearly ari
a& of barratry, judgment muft be for the' defendant. rhey
faid, that in all the cafes refpe&ing barratry, fome citcumftances of
fraud, grofs negligence, or evil and criminal condu6 towards the
owners, were ftated, i Tezm.Rep. 3 23. It muit be more than devition ; it muff b&fomething criminal.Parke 93- iPo/t.DiOT. 136.
214. Co~vp. 1;4. All define it tobe a trick, fraud, or cheat, upon
the owners. The definition, in Parke94, is a good one; and we
contend it muft befor the cxclufivebenefitof the captain to make
it barratry. There is no cafe which hints, that the captain may
not conne& his own intereft with that of the owners. In
Slammer v. Brown. 2 Stra. I 17 3 , it muft be fomething of a criminal nature, as well as a breach of contradt. If he miftook honefl4v, the owners, muft bear the lofs. The want of confent on the
part of the infured is not fufficient of itfelf: So is Parke 33."
The owners abide by all the mifcondud of the captain, but fuch
as

SUPREME COURT OF Penfyvania.

139

as imports fraud. There are fome inaccurate expreffions in the i792
books, as that of "wilful deviation"; but they muff mean criminal or fraudulent deviaton.
The opinion of the Court was delivered on the ioth of 7anuay.
M'KEAN, Chief 7uJice, after ftating the material farts, faidThis is either a deviation or a barratry. The nature of barratry
feems now pretty well underftood, and we think there ought to
appear fraud in the mafter's conduc&, before it is confidered as
barratry. Barratry is a criminal a& towards his owners, or an
ad done folely for his benefit, without the confent of the owners.
We do not difcover in this cafe, any marks. of criminal mifbehavio;ur, and the judgment muft be for the defendants.
SHIPPEN, 7Vice.-It is a mere imprudence of the mafter,
and for that the owners alone are anfwerable.
YEATES, Juffice, concurred, but gave. no feparate opinion.
BRADFORD;
iujlice :-As this is a mercantile queftion and divided a very refpefable jury, L think it right to flate my opinion pretty, much at large.
The fpecial verdit fiates a voluntary departure from the due
courfe of the voyage, without any neceffity or juft caufe. This
will, therefore, difcharge the policy, unlefs the circumflances attending it, prove it to be (as the plaintiffb contend it is) an adt
of barratry.
Before I take notice of thofe dircumftancer, it will be proper
to afcertain what is meant by,barratry. It has been often defiiaed, and its general meaning feems now as well fixed, as that of
any other tcrrm known in the lawi. From comparing thefe definitions, it appears, that the terms 9 villainy, knavery, cheat, matverfation, trick,'deceit, or fraud of the mafter," are ufed as fynonimous with it. The adjudged cafes, from that of Knight &
Cambridge (a) in 1724,. down to that of Nut L&f Bourdeau(b)in
1786, fpeak the fame language.. There is no cafe of barratry,
in which wc inay not perceive fome fraud, or criminal condua,
in the mafter. Sailing out of port without payment of duties,
is not an exvcepion : This is faid to be neglert, but it is more;
it is evidently a fraudt.ent and criminal art, expofing the fhip to,
forfeiture, for the dfhoneft purpofe (c) of putting money in his
own pocket. Sometimes, indeed, it isdifficult to diftinguifl the
lower fpecics of fraud, from the higher degrees of mere mifcondui. But one thing is clear, if the faEts-are not ftrong enough
to import fopie fraud, or criminal condu6t, in the rnaftcr, whatcycr name we may find to his condu6t, we cannot call it barratry.
The queftion then is, "do the fats, found by the fpecial
v.erdid, jiN any fraud, or criminal cond6t, on captain t'e!er."
S2
if
(e.) .ilJd; Ld.Rq.

(D) i Term Rep. 33.(

N Gouter.P.- I5.-

140

CASES rulel and adjudged in the

7792.- If they do, it muft be, either becaufe the dcparture was without
his owner's knowledge, or becaufe it was made with a view to
L
his own private benefit. It was not much urged at the bar, that
every deviation without orders, amounted to barratry ; yet, as
this was the very point, upon which I have reafon to think the
jury divided in opinion, I will notice it. It is true, that in many
of the commercial cities of Europe, a deviation without the owner's confent will not difcharge the infurers. It is fo eftablifhed
in France (a) ArnJlerdam (b) Middleburg (c) and Rotterdarn (d).
But this is the operation of pofitive ordinances. No fuch regulation is known 'among us. On the contrary, Lord .tfanfield
lays down the rule in I Biur. 347, in thefe words: "If the voyZge is altered, or the chance varied, by the fault of the infured,
dr of the niaJ7er, the owner ceafes to be liable." Parkein P.336,
is clear, that "it makes no difference whether the infured were
or were not confenting to the deviation." If the term infured
is thought equivocal, Wfeket is more exprefs, and in p. 165 fays;
it makes no difference whether the owner oftheft7p, or the proprietor of the goods, were or were not privy to the deviation."
In .Eltri & Brogdon (e) the deviation was againft the exprefs and
pofitive orders of the owners, yet it was not barratry. Cafes
might be multiplied; but the point will not bear further comment.
But the mafter's intention was relied on by both parties. It
was admitted, that if the maiLer had deviated with a view to his
private advantage alone, and without intending any benefit to
his ow*ners, it would have been barratry. The law is fo, and the
reafon is plain: Such condua imports fraud on the face of it.
It is a cheat upon the owners and fecretly.putting in his pocket,
what belongs'to them. On the other hand it was agreed, that
if it had been for the exclufive benefit of his owners, it would not,
have been barratry: And why not? Becaufe it is impoffible to
impute fraud to fRtch difinterelted conduCt. The cafe before us
is a middle cafe between the two I have mentioned. The mafter did intend the profit he might have gained, fhould be for the
be.cfit.of his owners and himfelf and, while the defendants
Urge, that his attention to his owner's benefit renders it a mere
daeviatiin, the plaintiffs contend, that the private views poifon
the who!e tranfaCtion, and make it barratry. Inconveniences
appear to refult from either conftru&ion, and I think it would
be mifch'*evous to give the captain's condu6,fromn-this circim*/?ancealone,a definite name. It does not of itff fufficientlylimport either fraud or fairnefs, to acquit or condemn the tranfaction. Cafes may be put, where an attention to hisownintereft may
mot be inconfiftent with the general purity of the maffer's views.
Such
raJ 2 .Ma~ens 174-

(b) 2

.o

(c) 13. 73.

(d) Ib.9tx

SUPREME COURT

OF Pent ,lvana.

141

Such ras the cafe in Elton & Brogdon. On the other hand, tlhe 1792.
mafter may unite a fmail intereft of his owners, with a greater
one of his own, yet we may difcover a difhoneft heart, regardlefs
of their effential inter efts. In every cafe therefore of this kind,
we muft weigh every circumftance, and form our judgment from
the impreffion of fraud, or fairnefs, which the whole tranfacfion
makes on our minds.
Taking into view the whole condu6t of Keeler, I cannot difcover any fraud or criminal conduit. Here was an a& of piracy committed in open day: The purfuit of the Fy was, in itfelf,
a meritorious aCtion; and if Keeler had been the o*ner of the
.dmerica, he would have been applauded for it. The whole mercantile world feems interefted in the fuppreffion of fuch villany.
Ie is folicited to employ his veffel on the occafion; he fipulates for a compenfation; and though he experted to receive a part
of it himfelf, yet ihat muft have depended on the pleafure of
his owners. It would have been their money, earned by their
fhip ; yet the captain might honeftly expe&t, that they would approve his condut and reward his exertions. It was a fudden
thing; we cannot fay that he knew of this. infurance, or that he
was aware of the confequqences of his deviation. Here are no
marks of knavery, or even of a difregard tc his owner's interefits.
It was an imprudence ; and he is anfwerable for it to his owners ; but the infurers are difcharged.
For thefe reafons I concur with the reft of the Court, that
judgment muff be for the defendant.

CATON,

Aflignee of the Sherif, verfue MCnTY.

L

EVT had obtained a rule to thew cdufe, why the proceedings on the bail-bond &louldnot be flaid, on the
ground that the plaintiff had accepted the defendant's appearance,
byfiling a declaration in the original a~tion. This he contended
was a waiver of bail, and cited Highm. -t53. 157. Lilly P:
R. 86. Barnes. 257. Rich. Prac. 132. Poph. 145.
Heatly, in reply,urged that the Englh.b praftice had never been
extended here ; and if it-was, the declaration ought to have been
delivered, before it could have had effieO. 2 Term. ReP. I 12.
" Cromp. 94. Ipey. .Prac. 94. Rule. B. R 23. 24.
By THE COURT :--It has been the practice in PennfyhyaniA
to tie ieclarations before appearance. In the cafe of fummons
the aqt requires that it T(hould be filed
days before the return
day. ' It has never yet been determined, that the filing a declaration is a waiver of,bail: We have no fuch rule ; and, unlefs

fomc
-

