FEDERAL CouRT or APPEALS.

meutrality, and therefore the property on board a neutral vefffel 1781.
ought not to be prote~ied.'
The ordinance of Congrefs makes no exception of GreatBritain; for it fays, you fhall not feize orcapture effe&s belonging
to the belligerent povers on board of neutral veffels. Great Britain is here beyond a doubtcomprehended i for fhe was a belligerent power when the ordinance paffed.
But it is faid this ordinance of Congrefs is obligatory only on
commanders of veifels, but not in the Courts of Admiralty and
Appeal. We cannot think that this objeftion was feriouflv
made.
Uponthe wholewe areof opinion thatthe decreebelowwith regard to the fhip, be confirmed; and with regard to the cargo, that
it be reverfed, and the cargo be charged with the ftipulated freight.

December Seflion, ][781.

MILLER, Libellant and
Appellant, versus

The

The Ship RESOLUTroN, &C.

The Cargo of the Ship
SOLUTION,

-

&c.

motion, of Wiljon, for the Appellants, a rule had beelt
in September Sellion hift, to fhew caufe, why there
)granted
fhould not be a rehearlhg in thefe Appeals : ift, becaufe the
decree had erred in fa&; and 2d. becaufe there had been a difcovery of material teftimony fince it was pronounced: And, it was,
argued on the 26th December, 178"t, by Morris,irl fupport of the
rule, and by Sereant and. Wilockr, in oppofition to it.
In fupport of the'rule, it was faid, that the re-hearing ought
to be allowed, on the principle that humanum eft errare - and bVy
analogy to the praffice of the Court of Chancery, founded oh
that principle. It is true, that the intereft of the community requires, that there fhQuld be an end to controverfies ; but thia
muft be attended to, confiftently with doing juftice. A re-hearing
oftheChancellor's decree teems, indeed, to be a matter of coiirfe,
on application, for that purpofe, by any two Counfel of refpefih5
ble chara&er. Bo. Cur. Can. 240. 243. 364. 385. 4°O
The petition for a re-hearing was filed ) as foon. as information
of thedecree was recei'ted: There has, therefore, been no laches
irk
Cz
('N

CAsPS ruled and decreed in the

20

L

7781. in makingthe application; and even when-the Chancellorhas made
his final decree, the form of petition merely fRates that he has erred
in confcience, as to the fats ; and the application is feldor refufed. But though the requeft of Counfel fhould not, of itfelf,
be deemed fufficient, the difcovery of new evidence fubfequent
to the decree, ought to be admitted,as a foundation for a re-hearing. By this evidence it will appear, that other veffels, though
really Briti/, have been fitted out by the fame parties, under
the fame cover ; and, of confequence, the inference will be Rrong
that the Refoution was alfo Brit#i property.
In oppofition to the rule, it was obferved, that the moft pernicious confequences would enfue, if a new trial fhould. be
granted upon every requeft, and that the paymentof coils will not
be a fufficient check ; as the advantage of having the property in
hand more than compenfates that inconvenience. But in anfwering the caufes affigned for a re-hearing, it was contended,
that the Law of Chancery did not. apply. In Chancery, the
fuits being new, and the parties liable to furprize, re-hearings
are frequently allowed ; but in the Houfe of Lords a re-hearing
is never allowed. Nor is it confonant with the pra&ice of this
Court; though if the Court was itfef diffatisfied with-the principles of the decree, that Avould undoubtedly be a fatisfa6tory
reafon for the meafure. Befides, on a re-hearing in Chancery,
*nonew evidence can be introduced; and the petition for a rehearing muft-ftate the reafons at large. 2. Prac. Ch. 450.
bid. io. But this application is in the nature of a Bill of review, and muft, confequently, fRate new evidence. Ibid. 40.
452.

3

Black. Com. 451.

_&k-k8S.

3

P

Wm. 371
7

7 2.

Nor is thi new evidence,.which is affigned as another caufe for a
re-hearing, admiffible : It refpe&s another veflel ; and the papers found on board the fhip herfelf muf 'e the ground of ac.
quittal, or condemnation.
Br -r.Ha CouRT :-As the original decree has not been carried into execution we think it proper, under the peculiar circumftances of the prefent cafe, to allow a .re-hearing. ' But
this is not to be drawn-into precedent ; nor is any point previofily determined, to be brought again into litigation, unlefs the
Rtate 6f the fa6ts efpefing it fhall be alteredby the new evidence.
The caufes were, accordingly, argued for feveral -fuccefilve
days; and on the 24 th of 79ngary 1782, the following revifionary decree (altering the fufpended decree only as to a part of the
cargo) was delivered by WILLIAM PACA, and CyRus GiuFEnl, the prefiding Commiffioners.
Br TH. COURT.

We have confidered the new evidence

which

"'EDExAL COURT oF APPEALS.

21

w*hich has been laid before us, and we have alfo confidered the 1781.
%
obfervations and arguments, which the Counfel upon both fides
have made upon it.
On the firft argument we were of opinion, that the ihip ought
to be confidered in the predicament of neutral property, and enthe
tided to all the rights and privileges of neutrality, which
up
Ordinance of Congrefs afcertained and, conferred ; we took
and
capitulation
of
articles
the
of
this idea from a conftruion
the Brit ih proclamation, which iffued imiediately on the rup
ture between GreatBritain and the States General, and which
prote&ed the' hip Refdolution for a limited time from Briti/h
p
caprure on her. paffage. from Dominica to A1mjlerdam : We conto
eeived, that the neutrality of the States General, with regard
rupture;
the
by
broken
not
was
coiiidered,
abftra6edly
the fhip,
its
the proclamation having controuled the extent of the war, by
capand
hoftility
of
fubje&
a
being
from
Ihip
exemption of the
ture.
Strh was our opinion on the firft argument : But on confideridw of the laft argument, we are of a different opinion.
The writers upoti the law of nations, fpeaking of the different
A
Einds of war, diftinguifh them into perfe&t and imperfe& :
tranand
peace
national
the
deftroys
which
that
is
war
V'eeft
:
quillity, and lays the foundation-of every poffible a&t of hoftility
the
deftroy
entirely
not
does
which
that
is
The imperfe&t war
as
p~ublic tranquillity, but interrupts it only in fome paiticulars,
reprifals.
in the cafe of
Before Creat Britain commenced war with the States General,
the States were a neutral nation with regard to the war betwegn
GreatBritain, France, Spain and America: They had taken no
part in the war, and were a common friend to all. This is peo
cifely the lel "dca-of a neutral nation : It implies two iiations
at war, and a third in friendfhip with both. The war which
Gro;a Britain commenced with the States General was a perfe&t
waw It deftroyed the national peace of the States General,and
with it the neutrality of the nation. The States became a party
in the general war againft Britain: They were no longer a
common friend to the belligerent powers; and therefore they
ceafed to be a neutral nation.'
War having thus deftroyed the neutrality of the States General,
they can never refume the charaEter of a neutral until they are
in circumftances to refume the charaCter of a common friend to
Great Britain, France, Spain and America: But this chara&er is
not to be acquired while war fubfifts between them and GreatBritain. Only a peace, therefore, betwee iBritain and the States,
can put the States in a capacity to refume their original character of neutrality. But there can be no peace without the conby
xurrence of both nations: The Briti/h could not therefore, the

C,&sm rut-d and decreed in thc
178 r. the mere authority of their proclamation.reff ore back to the Ship
Reflution her original nentrality. The Proclamation could only operate as a proteffion of the Ship from Rriti7 capture.
We, thcrefore, lay out of queition the ordinance of Longref*
with'regard to the rights of neutrality; thia cafle is not within it.

%ay..

]But the Ship Refolutioq is captured and both Ship and Cargo are

libelled as prize. A queftion is made; on whom lies the orn r
probandi ? We think on the captors. There can be no condemnation without proof that the Ship or Cargo is prize; and it cannot be expe61ed, that the perfons who "conteft the capture will
produre
proof.
Every that
capture
is at the peril of the party. A privateer
is not
authotized to capturn -every veffel found on the high lea : She
iscommiflioned to capture only fuch fliips as are the property of
the enemy. Every fhip indeed may, in time of w~r, be brought
to -nd examined; but fhe is not to be feized and captured, without the captors have juff. grounds to think the is the property
of an enemy, and not the property of fubjefts of a nation in
peace and friendfhip, or neutrality.

If fuch feizure and capture

aremade without juft grounds, the partyiured is entitled to
hiave an a&ion for damages: And it is re pblcy of all nations
at war to oblige the captains of privateers to give bond and fecurity. to enforce a proper condut while at fea, and to prevent
feizures and captures from being wantonly made.
The fea is open to all nations: No nation has an exclufive property in the fea. Put the cafe then, that a privateer meets a 1hip
at fea; is it to be inferred, from-the mere circumfance of thi
Aip's being found on the high fea, that fe is the property of
an enemy? Surely there isno ground'for fuch an inference':
On this ground a privateer might feize and capture the fhips of
its own nation. But the privateer attacks,feizes, captures and
brings the fhip into port : It is plain here is an a& of violence;
a feizure and capture.. The captain therefore muff do tw&
things : At all events heamuft fhewjuft grounds for the violence.
or he will be .punifbable at Iaw by an a&ion of damages : and in
th next place, before he can obtain condemnation, he muff prove
the fhip to be the property ot an enemy ' for, it can never be
enough for condemnation, that he found the fhip ar. feat
The captors fay: "That in the prefeant cafe hey-had not only
,c
"
juft grounds for feisture; but they have alfo juft grounds for
cc condemnation: For both ifhe fhip and cargo were found
i6
c the poffeflion of.Briiy fubje&s, and thirefare Brijb pro'
-

" perty."

Itxuff be .admitted that polirfllon is prefumptiye evidence
of property; becaufe olOflion is a cipcumflance whiih geneTally accompanies property i and, ,therefoe the fei'zufe and
.apture, in ihe prefent caie, was a violence at all events juftili6ed
by

FADERAL COURt

or

APPEALS,

23

the law of nations, and for which no aaion would lie, even on 1731.
acquittal of the Ship and Cargo. But the poffeffion in this cafe
is io ground for condemnation : For what is the nature of prefumptive evidence ? It only has the force ot evidence whilit it
remains uncontefted. The poffeffion is clearly accounted for ;
The fhip came into the hands of the enemy by capture; and the
prior poffeffion was in the hands of .Datchfubjets, and not Eriryi fubje~ts. The prefumption therefore relied on by the captors is defeated, and the argument founded on the. poeffion is
in favor of the claimants.
, On the queftion of Prize or no Prize, what evidence does
the lhw of nations admit for the deterrniaaticn of it ?
The national interet of every commertial country requires,
that foine mode or criterion be adopted to afcertaiii the fhip,
cargo, deftination, property and nation to which fuch fhip belongs; not only as a fecurity for a fair commerce according to
law,; but as a guard againff fraud and impofition in the payment
and collection of duties, impoils and eommercial revenues. The
peace alib and tranquillity of nations equally require, that the like
criterion thould h& adopted, to diftinguifh the fhips' of different
countries found on the high leas in time of war; to prevent an
indifcriminate exercife of ats of hoftility, which may lay the
foundation of general and univerfal war. Hence it is, that every commercial country has direted, by its laws, that its fhips
Ihall be furnifhed with a let of papers called Ship Papers : And
this criterion the law of natiobs adopts, in time of war, to diftinguifl the property of different powers, when found at fea ; not
indeed as" conclufive, but prefumptive evidence only. Bills of
lading, letters of correfpondence, and all other papers one board,
which relate-to the fhip or cargo, are Plfo confidered as pihind
face evidence of the fa&s they fpeak ; becaxfe fuch papers naturally accompany fuch a mercantile tranfa&ion.
Such then is the evidence m,,hich the law of nations admits oa
a queftion of prize or no prize; and it is on this evidehce that
Yeffels with their cargoes are generally acquitted or condemned:
And therefore, if in this cafe the papers on board affirm the fhip
and cargo to be fuch. property as is not prize, there muff be an
acqtdittal, unlefs the captors are able, by a contrariety of evidence,
to defeat the pretlimption which arifes from the papers, and'caa
thew juff gr6unds for condemnation. On the other hand, if the
papers affirm the fhip and cargo to be the property of an enemy,
there muff be a condemnation, unlefs they who contefl the captuie can produce clear and unqueftionable evidence to prove the
contrary.
The papers on board, the manifeft, cleara~ice, bills of lading,
the depofitions annexed, the certificates of the Chief Jultice of
.Demitcaj the French Governor's paifport, -andthe letters of correfpundunce

CAss ruled and decreed in the
178r. refpondence from the hippers, colle&ively taken, prove the

%

Ship to be the property of Brantlight & Son, fubjeas of 11m
States General, at the port of dmferdam, and the cargo to be
the property gf Briti# capitulants refiding or owning eftates in
the Ifland of Dominica, and entitled to the rights of commerce according to the capitulation on the conqueft of that'Ifland; except
with regard to fuch parts of the cargo as were fhipt by Morfon,
& Co. Morfon, Pancey & Co. and Lovel, Morfon, & Co.
It lies then on the captors to obviate the force of this evi.
dence : It muff be obviated, or an acquittal muff be decreed, to
the full extent of the evidence.
The papers have been taken up by the Counfel for the captom
4nd feparately and diffinlly confidered, and it is faid they.do
not prove the fats to which they are adduced. It is true, feparately~confidered, they do not; but colle&ively taken, we think
they do, except in the inftances we have mentioned.
Many obje&ions have been made to obviate the force of this
prefumptive evidence: The objections go to the competency of
many of the papers, and to the credibility 6f all. cc The certi" ficates of the Chief Juftice, it is faid, ought not to be admitc ted as legal and competent evidence; for the Chief Juftice is
" a Brityih Judge of the Ifland of Dominica, and an enemy."
'
We do not think the Chief Juffice of that Ifland, reduced
as it is by conqueft, can with propriety be, called a Briti/h Judge
ana an enemy. But whether he derives his commiffion originally from the Crown, and fll holds it under the articles of capitulation, and fo far is a BrMAf/ Judge, or not, he muff certainly
.be fubje& to, removal by the French government; and it highly
,derogates from the honor and dignty of the French Crown, and
too deeply affe&s the zeal and loyalty of Governor Duchilot,
to admit the fuppofition, that a man is fuffered to fill fo important an office, who publicly proftitutes his official hara&er
from a partiality to the Britijh nation.
The Chief Juftice gave his cerlificates officially and under the
obligation of an oath: We muff want charity indeed, if, under
thefe circumftances, we were to fay, that they have not even the
force of prefumptive evidence.
But the competency of this evidence, fo far as it is adduxced to
prove the owners or hippers of the cargo British capitulants, is
obje&ed to, on another ground. It is faid; "thefe certificates
" are not the beft evidence the nature of. the cafe will admit,
" and which the party has in his power to produce : An atteftcc ed copy of the afticles of capitulation, and the names fubfcrist bed, ought to have been produced."
This principle of evidence applies forcibly againft the captdrs,
but does not affe& the claimants. The articles of capitulation
bind GreatBritain, France and Zmerica. It is a folemn compa&

FEDIBAL COURT oW APMAI-4.

q

Pao treaty. All the parties to .it, the citizens of each nation, L78rbut con-are morally bound by it And it is notonly admitted,
naneutral
even
that
captors,
tended for, by the counfel for the
upon
is
it
that
and
it;
regard
to
oligation
moral
tions are.under a
deter-.
this principle the law ofnations takes cognizance of and
mines upon it.
The.papers on board fhew .a fair commerce, and affirm the
.cargo to be the property of capitulants, except in the inftances
4mentioned. If they are not capitulants, and yet Brityj/ fubje&s,,
an&
they have violated the capitulation, engaged in a fraudulent
moral
Qf
breach
a
with
chargeable
are
illicit commerce, and
preobligation. The claimants ftand upbn two grounds of pae
the
from
arifes
-which
fumption: flirft, the prefumption
that
pers ; and then the prefumption that no man would do
which he is morally bound not to do. The claimants cannot
be affe&ed while thefe prefumptions remain .uncontefcd.
How'are they to be contefted ? By what evidence'? Certainly
the beft evidence that the nature of the cafe will admit, and.which"
the-captors have in their power to produce. And if an atteftbeft
ed copy of the articles, and of the names fubfcribed is.the
prove
to
beft
the
is
it
capitulants,
are
evidence to prove who
on
who are not capitulants ; and, therefore, the captors ought, in.

-their own principles, to prcduce it ; they having it as much

their power to produce fuch copy as the claimants.
regifter.
But it is faid, " the, hip's papers are defeeive ; .the
of furground
a
gives
and
witheld,
is
is not produced ; it
, picion."ofte
We have no doubt, a regiffer was on board at the time
fufpicfor
ground
any
capture : But we do notithink there is
on under the circumftances of the cafe.'
The Refoliton was captured by a Brit/h-privateer. The Bvicaptain Wat0 captain took poffeffion of the ihip's papers, and
Afpifoner.
made
Was
terburgh, the captain of the Refolution,
privateer,
4merican
the
by
captured
was
terwards the Refolutin
tbie
and the 4mterican captain took poffellon of fuch papers,.as
,Ro/lution.
the
on.board
remain
to
Brityth captain had fuffered
Captain Wlaterburgh was not brought into port with -his 1hip.
capIt was the intereft of both the. Britih and A4merkan
prothe
be
to
fhip
he
proved
it
if
tains to withhold the regifter,
cappercy of fubjecs of the Stater General; and neither the Briti/b
papers
the"
that
'oath,
tain, nor the American captain have made
on
produced to the Court are all the papers, which were found.
pofTfelion.
and
hands
to'their
refpeaively
camand
board,
paBut it is faid, " no credit or.faith is to. Be given to thofe
'Mc
andabfurdity.
"pars, bcaufe replete, with contradilion

.. Danife

CASES ruled and decreed in the
1781.

" Manifeft, it is Laid,
" The Manifeft purports
cc perfons named therein

-contradiCls the Bills of Lading z
the property of the cargo to be in the
as the fhippers, and the Bills of La.
c ding fhew, in many inftances, that the property is in others."
The Manifeft exhibits a column under the defcription of
Uhippers ; and it alfo exhibits a column under the defcription of
marks, and other columns for the cargo,
The Bills of Lading correfpond with the columu of marks; and
the perfons defcribed as fhipp rs in the Manifeft, are afcertained
by the Bills of Lading to be perfons, who agted principally as
attorneys, managers, or agents, for thofe who are mentioned
in the Bills to own the property for which the Bills are taken ;
the property in the Bills being 'in the general produce of fuch
ownets" eftates in Dominica. There is therefore no contradiftion
between the Manifeft and -Billsof Lading; for, the term fhippers
does not imply the property to be in fuch fhippers ; the term as
properly applies to a fa~tor, oi attorney, or agent, as to the
owner.
" But, it is faid, Governor Duchiot was impdfed upon; that
he refers inhis Paflport and Certificate, which is endorfed on the
Manifeft, to the i 7 th aTticle of the capitulation; that the
- 7 th article- ipeaks of fuch merchants as havc goods or mer" chandize ; and that therefore the Governor muft have been in:"formed that the fhippere were the owners of the cargo."
It is tue the 17th article fays, the merchants may fell their
merchandize, and carry on their trade; and the term their implies the property to be in them: But the term their may alfo
apply to the property which a fadtor, agent or attorney has the
pofeffion;-management and fhipment of, for others ; for, although they have not the general, yet they hVe the fpecial, prb
perty.
" But, it is faid, 'the Ihippers -dared not ,o-avowthe narhes of
the perfons mentioned in the Bills of Lading,,from a confcioutnefs that they were not capitulants, and that the Governor would
have refufed them a Licenfe, Paffport andCertificate."
If the Uhippers felt fuch a confcioufnefs, why avow the names
of fuch in the Bills of Lading ? It was not only necelFary to take
meafufres to prevent difcovery on the Ifland, but alfo to guard
,againff detention on a capture at fea. Why was-the Governor's
Paffport and Certificate obtained ? Was it not to proteCt the
thip.and cargo from capture ? But if the Manifeft, Paffport and Certificate had no reftence to the Bills of Lading, but were
contradi~qory and inconfiftent, and ihe perfons avowed by the
Bills of Ladingtq be. the owners of the. property werenot capitulants, is it not a novelty in the game of fraud, to furnifh a.
thip-with fuch papers av proclaimed a contridiCdon to the Ma-

nifeft

FEDERAL CouRT or APPEALS.

xiifeft, Pafiport and Certificate, announced the criminality of 17FT.
the commerce, and expofed both fhip and cargo to capture and
confifcation ?
Prudence required, and very probably it was enjoined by the
Governmentthat before a fhipflhouldbefuffered to clear out, and
proceed on her voyage, proofs fhould be made and taken with
her, not only that the fhippers of the cargo were capitulants, but
alfo, that the owners of the cargo were capitulants. It appears
in this cafe, thatabove three fourths of this cargo,were Thipped by
agents, and attornies and fa&ors. The Governor certifies the
fhippers to be capitulants. The chief Juftice certiies the owners to be capitulants, and where his certificates are deficient, the
depofitions prove it. All this may be done, in conformity to the
law, ufage and pra&ice of the Ifland.
But another contradi&ion is obje&ed : It is faid, " the Bills
of Lading contradi& the other Papers, which import the property of the Thaip to be in Brantlight & Son; for the Bills confignthe cargo to B'rantlight & Sn ; and therefore it is contended, the property of the fhip could not fie in Brantlight & Son ;
becaufe it is obferved to dire& a man-t pay freight to himfelf."
The Bills of Lading are not chargeable with any fuch abfurdity. The freight is not dire&ed to be paid to Brantlight "
Son ; the freight is to be paid to the captain ; he is refponfible
for the wages of his. crew, and other debts, contra&ed on account of the fhip. Freight is.anfwerable for all fuch claims, and
the captain is entitled to receive it, to indemnify himfelf: He
may, therefore, refufe to deliver the cargo, till the freight is
paid. And by this means, in cafe of the bankruptcy of his owners,
he is lure ofan indemnification, to the extent of the freight.
But Rill another contradiffion is obje&ed : It is faid, " that
both thr Bills of Lading, and the oath of A'rfon, on the back of
the Manifeft, contradi& the aTertion of the other papers, that
the hip is the property of Brantight &" Son : for, they prove
the confignmeit of fhip to Brantlight f Son ; and therefore, it is contended, the property could not be in them, becaufe
it is abfurd to configa a ihip to the owners." We do not
fee any fuch abfurdity. Confignment is-a mercantile phrafe,
adopted to diftinguifl the perfon, to whofe care a fhip
is addreffed, and, when applied to the owiners, it is merely in conformity to forms. It is the common ufage and pra&ice
of merchants to apply. the phrafe, indifcriminately, to owners,
and others.
" But, it is faid, the papers found on board the Reloution, do
not fufficintly prove the fhip to be the property of Brantlight
& So&, when fhe arrived at St. Etfmatiux, from" .Injlerdan,
early in 1.78o." It is proved, by the oath of .'forfon, and captain
W1Yaterburghj endorfed on the back of theManifeft, that this pro)z
perty

CAsii ruletd aritt decreed in the
T73T. perty. was fubfifting, if not at the time of the depofition, yety
at leaft, on the arrival of the fhip it Ddminica, OE3o6br, 1780.
V

And Morfon, & Company's letter, to Brantlight & Son, dated 6th March 78 i, after the rupture with Holland,and fhrtly before the fhip left Dominica, and which was found on boards
proves the property to be then fubfifting : for, in the clofe of
tihe letter, they fay, "4captain W.arerburgh has drawn on you, in
our favour, for diiburfernent, ,C 191 15! ;" which difburfemebt
-plainly refers to difburfements of thehip, which Brantfighn b'
Son could not be chargeable wvith, if they had parted with the
property, and were no longer owners.
No evidence at all is produced to~fhew a change of proper- ty! or transter of the ihip. And, therefore,. the fa& being an4mitted, that The was thie property of Brantlight & Son, on her
arrival at St. Eqtiatia, in 178o, and the property being proved

to be fublftiing in Ofober, 1780, and proved, to be fubfifting in
March, 1781, a few days before the failed from Doninicaj
we cannot doubt, but that the property was fubfitling, at the
timhe of her capture. She wa. then no prize to the Britijh privateer; becaufe protetted by the ;ritzsh Proclamation : Sbh.
was no prize to the American privateer- becaufe fhe was the
property of the fubje&s. of the* States General, a nation iipeace
and friendfhip with A4merica.
" But the papers, it is faid,. prove the cargo to be the property of perfons, not capitulants : For Morfon & Company, iii
their letter of the 6th Z"arcb, 1781, fpeak of Kender MAIafon, as
a fhipper, who is not a capitulant."
What does this letterfay ? 'It is addrefTed to Brantlight
S0n, and informs them, t ate rupture with Holland, occafi.
oned all fhipments to ffop ; that afterwards, the British Proclamation, prote~ting the Holland veffels from capture, for a li.
mited time, on their, paffage back from Dominica, came to hendl
that even then, no one but Kender Mafon and themfelves would
fhip ; that, afterwards, thipment went generally on..
T%;q letter proves clearly, that the cargo was Thipped by many different perfons. Not only Kender Majon fhipped, but Morfom U, Company alfo fhipped, and there were other flippers, who
were alarmed, notwithlanding the -BritishProclamation, and
'would not immediately thip, thoughi afterwards they proceeded
to thip.
To what extent did Kender Mafon fliip ? Morfon & Co's.letter,
which is the only evidence that he fhipt at all, goes 11o further
than to prove, that he thipt a part of the cargo. How fhall this
part -beafertained ?
The thip, it is admitted, by counfel on both fides, was configned to Morfon & Co. and .4lexandrr Henderfon; and it appears from the.papers on board, that upwards of two thirds of

the

FEDEKAL ConuT oF APPEALS.

the cargo were fhipt by Henderfon, as agent and attorney for the x78 .
Britj capitulants; the refidue of the cargo was fhipt, partly
by ames-Morfon, agent and attorney for Britj/icapitulants,
partly by Morfon & Co. and partly by others, in their own right,
as agents and attornies for others.
The letter of correfpondence, which Henderfon addreffed to
.BrantlightL? Son, to whom the fhip and cargo were configned,
and his letters of correfpondence, addreffed to the gentleman at
London, for whom he was agent and attorney; the bill of lading he took for the property fhipt, and his depofition annexed
to the Laid bill, give a fair hiftory of fuch part of the cargo,
as was fhipt by him: They prove it to be the property of Brit/h
capitulants, and not the property of Kender Mkafon.
The depofitions of James Morfon, the bills of lading, and the
certificates of the Chief Juftice, point out and afcertain, what
part of the cargo he fhipt as agent and attorney, and prove it
to be the property of Britijh capitulants, and not the property
of Kender Aafon.
The depofitions, bills bf lading, manifeft, letters of correfpondence, the Governor's paffport and certificate, and the depofition of Morfon and Fitzgerald prove that the refidue of tlW
cargo, except what was fhipt by Morfon, & Co. Morfon, Vance,
& Co. and Livel, Morfon & Co. was the property of Brityjh
capitulants, and not the propefty of Kender Mafon,
If Mafin, then, had any property on board, that property
mufk have been in fuch parts of the cargo as were flipt by MrJon, & Co. Vance, & Co. and Lovel, Morfon, &Co. With regard
to this part of the cargo,, the evidence is not fwll and compleat:
For, altho' Morfon is proved to be a capitulant, yet the company is neither afcertained, nor proved to confift of capitulants.
But it is contended, that the property fhipt by Henrfon was
the property of Kender Mafion.
On what ground ii the idea taken up, that Mafion had any
property at all on board ? It is founded folely on that part of
Morfin & Co.'s letter, which mentions Kender .Mafon as a Iipper. Exclufively of this letter, there is nothing, befides mereconjecture and poffibility, to prove that he had any property at
all on board.
be clear; that if Renderon was meant, then
This much mull
meant.
Mfon was not
AMorfon & Co. fay in their letter, "that even after the arrival
c' of the JBrityjh proclamation, no one but Kender Mafov, and
I ourfelves, would immediately,fhip." If Henderfon was not
mineant for Kender Mafon, then Hendetyin was amongft thofe who
efre Rill alarmed, ,and would not immediately fbip, on the arTiva! of'the Bhtit proclamation; and, confequently, Kender
Maftn Gouldhvhe no property in what war. fhipt by .lenderfon:
for

30

CAsEs ruled and decreeir in the

1791. for it is abfurd to fay, that Kender Mafon proceeded 'to fhip%
'.v'~.'and Ienderfon did not, if what Henderfon fhipt was the property of Kender Ma/an.
But, it is obje&ed, "that altho' Kender Ma/on is mentioned.
in the letter, as a flhipper,, yet it is to be underftood, that he is
there dtfcribed as principal to Renderfon, and- therefore, what
was fhipt by -enderfon, may with propriety be faid to have been.
fhlipped by Kender Ma/aon."
What evidence. is there of fuch a conne&ion between- Maonand Henderfon? Mafon's letters of correfpondence are all addreffed to Morfon, and the fpi is configned to, Marfon and Hen.
deifon, as perfons in feparate and diftin&, interefts. The idea
too, of fuch a conne&ion, is contradi&ed by the whole tenor
of tfe papers found on board.
I If Henderfor was the agent or attorney for Kender Ma/on; if
he was the perfon, with whom Mafon, was fo extenfively interefted, in his commercial conne&ions, then the idea of his conne&ion with Moron & Co. Morfon, J'ance, & Co. and Lovel
.Mron,.& Co. ought to be abandoned :- for, it .is
not to bebelieved, that Zi'fa/on fliould engage- in three partnerfhips, and yet
employ an agent or attorney, who fhips forty times the quantity
of produce Ihipt by'all the three partnerfhips,
But it-is contended, - that both fhip and, cargo. are the property of Morfon and .aon, in confequence of a plan concerted
at London, between- Kender Mafon and,. Heuyfen, agent foi
'Brantlight& &n, while the Ship Re/oution lay at Eulatius."
We have no doubt- the voyage of 'the Re/ofution was planned,
at London, by-'Kender Matin and Hy/hu~yfen.; but the plan muffhave been very different from the one fuggefted.
One of two propofitions muff be true ; either Morfon and
MaYon did not purchafe the 1hip, and ship the cargo, in confequence of the plan fugg fted, or Mor/n has fworn falfely, and
committed a pejury.
Morfin, the 7 th Mar, 1781, near twelve months after the
Rtefolutiods, voyage was, concerted at London, fwears that the
-Ship Refolution, belonging to the port of Rotffeau, and owned by
.BrantightE' Son, arrived at Dominica, OR. 1780; for the purpofe of taking on board a cargo of figar and coffee, the pro.
perty of capitulants.
This oath flatly contradi&s the affertion, that the Ship was
purchafed; 'it
alfo dire&ly contradics the affertion, that the plan
was to fhip-.a cargo, the property of Kender _Mafon ;,for Kender
JiIafon ip not a capitulant.
Morfon's knowledge was competent to the fa&s.he fwore:
He precifely knew what the plan wasthat was really concerted
'at London; for, it is' ftrenuoufly coqltended by the counfel for
the raptors, that Kender Mffa/on, in his letter-to ,oj; &Heflzvfn

FEDdRAL COURT. Op APPEALS
Wten, enclofed to Waterburgh, contained a full communication of

it.

cc But the papers, it is faid, found on board the u.Rflin, throw
cc great light upon the fubje& they pluck off the mafk, and
" exhibit Mafon in his proper colours ; they prove, that an illicit
c commerce has taken place, and that the articles of capitulation
cc have been repeatedly violated."
Admit, for argument fake, the fa&; that the Eustin was engaged in an illicit commerce, how can the condu& of the Bustia
affe& the Refolution ?
But what is this illicit commerce, which is charged to have
taken place ? Let it be afcertained, and we fhall find, it cannot
poffibly apply to the Reolution.
c Brit/h goods, it is faid, have been fipt from London, to
cc Dominica, thro' the intervention of neutral ports." Can this
fpecies of illicit commerce apply to the Refolution ? It is impoffible; for fhe was never engaged in this Dominica trade, till
after her arrival at Eustatia, early in 1780 ; and from thence fhe
failed to Dominica, where fie lay, till the rupture between Great
Britain and Holland took place'; nor were Brantlight and Son
ever engaged in fuch a commerce- for _1Moifon and Co's. letter,
f the 6th March 781, after the rupture, fpeaks of this houfe,
as a new houfe, with which the people of Doehinica were unacquainted ; and mentions the difficulties he had, from that
circumitance, to procure confignme~nts.
" But the papers, it is faid, of the Eiiin prove that the
c produce of Dominica has-been exported t6London, through
cc the intervention of neutral ports."
Was the Refolution ever engaged in this fpecies of illicit commerce ? The peculiar circumftances of her cafe Ifew, that fhe
never was. The rupture with Hollandtook place while fhe lay
at Dominica ; it ftopped all 1hipments. On the arrival of the
Britifh proclamation, prote&ing Holland veffels, for a limited
time, on their paffage back, thipments went on; but the protection, which the proclamation gave, ceafed on the arrival of
Holland veffels back to their ports in Holland.
What ground then is there to think, that the Refoluticn, .with
her cargo, were deftined, after her arrival at AmJlerdam, to proceed to London, where both thip and cargo, would have been liable,after her departure from AImjlerdam, not bnly to B -itij/hcapture;
but, as contended by the counfel for the captors, liable alfo to
Dutch capture, war prohibiting all commerce between the belligerent powers'; and not only liable to Britishand Dutch capture ;
but, as the law of nations has been ftated by the counfel of the
captors, liable alfo to French, Spanj/h and American capture ?
cc But the papers, it is faid of the Eujlin, prove that Mlor4 [On and Aifo; who planned the voyage of the Refolution,
cc alfo

1781.

CAsns rTued and decreed in -the
t 78.

planned the voyage of the Euftin;and therefore, if the
.kalfo
Eu.ffin was engaged in an illicit commerce, the prefumption
c is, that the Refolution was alfo employed in fuch commerce."
We have already obferved, that the Refoution could not poffibly be engaged in the illicit contmerce, with which the Eustin is charged; but if Morfon and Mafon planned both voyages,
Zkforfon knew the plan on which the Refolution was chartered,
and be has proved it, on oath, to be a fair one, and in perfe&
conformity to th, articles of capitulation.
" But Mafon, in his letter'from Offend, Augillt 1781, found
" on board thp E tffin, writes to Morefon, that he has nearly
c accomplifhed the plan, which he informed him of in his letter
" dated Oqober 1780, from Rotterdam, and it is contended,
" that this letter proves, that a plan is eftablifhed atOftema to
c centre there the whole Dominica trade, and to furnifh Briti
" goods for Dominica, through that channel." Admit the fa&s
to be fo; how does it affe& the Refdolution and her cargo-? The
rupture with Holland had taken place, and the Refdlution was

captured, and brought into port, feveral months before the plan

was accomplifhed at Offend and, confequently, whatever illicit
pra&ice that plan points at, cannot apply to the Refloution.
But it is faid, that the plan eftablifhed at-O.jend, was the plan,
which was concerted at London, and eftablifhed'at Almfterdam,
and Rotterdam, and Ihifted from thofe cities to Oflend, on ac.
count of the rupture with Holland. If the plan, now eftablifh.
ed at ,fend, is nothing more than the plan adopted at London,
'With regard to the Rfolution, then it is a fair one; 'for .Morjon
has told us, -what the plan was, and he has declared it on oatli.
But we are of opinion, that the fyftem, now eftablflihed at 0flend,
is nothing'more than the plan adopted at Londoh, with regard to
the Refolution : Then it is a fair one; for Mvlorfon has told us,
what the plan was, and he has declared it on oath. "But.we
are of opinion, that the fyftem now eftablifed at Oflend is a
new one, and that it is not a former plan, flhifted from Hollandto
O1ffend, on account of the rupture. It originated indeed before
the rupture, and might have taken place in Holland, had itbeen
completed before that event. -It is of fuch a nature as require,
_44orfon to take his refidence at Ofend. It occafioned a change,
in his commercial conne&ion at London, and a diffolution of the
partnerfhip, in which he was there engaged. The cargoes fhipped
from Dominica, tho' configned to Liber, Baas, Derd &Co. were
neverthelefs to be difpofed of, under his fuperintendancy. It
was upon this plan, whatever it was, that the Euffin failed; fhe
may be affeled by it, but the Refolution never can.. We have
faid, the whole cargo of the .Refolution is difproved to be the.

property of Mafon; except fuch parts of it as were ihipt b

Mgrfoi. & Co. and therefore if Mafon had any property at ql
We
on board, it mixit be in fuch part of the cargo.

FEDrAL CotRT op APrEALS.

We feel the force of the reafoning which has been e'mployed to 1781 .
ihew, that the name of Kender Mlafon was inferted by mifake;
but, as Hafon, who appears to us to be a partner in three partnerfhips, and to have been the a&ive perfon in ihipping this
part of the cargo, has acknowledged, for himfelf and company,
that Kender .IIafon was a fhipper, and the evidence, upon a
careful review of it, leaves an opening to apply that acknowledgment to a concern in the three partnerfhips, we are led to
change the opinion we had entertained on the firft argument,
with regard to this point, and now think, that this part of the
cargo muft be condemned as prize; and, not bnly Mafon's.
,proportion of it, but lfo the whole intereft of the three partnerthips: For, the fhippirig of produc by .Mafon, who is not a
capitulant, is a violation of the capitulation ; and as the three
partnerthips were confenting to it, and negleied their intereft
with Mafon, they are participex criminis, and muff equally fuffer.
So far we have thought proper to animadvert on the new evidence, and the argument and obfervations of the counfel upoh it.
And, altho' on. a decree of acquittal, almoft the whole cargo will
go into the hands of thofe who are not the friepds of America,
notwithfianding they have ftipulattd a neutrality during the
-war;yet, as they are entitled to it, by the articles of capitulation which bind America, the law of nations operating on thofe
articles as a folemn compa&t, commands that fuch a decree muff
be given. We hope we feel jufL impreffions of the wrongs and
cruelties of GreatBritain; b ut public faith muft be maintained;
the honor and dignity of the United States preferved, and the
law of nations difpaffionately and righteoufly adminiftered.
We therefore adjudge and decree, that the order of this
court, futpending the original decree, be difcharged, and the
faid.original decree, be affirmed in all its parts, except with
regard to fuch parts of the cargo, as were fhipt by Morfon & Co.
Morf n, Vance, & Co. and Love/I, Moroon & Co. which parts of
the carg6 we do adjudge and decree to be condemned, for the
ufe of the captors, chargeable, neverthelefs, with the flipulated
freight.

azuary

