SuFk!M9 CouaT OF Penelvanrtw.

difinterefted witnefs) was offered to prove, that at the time of 1703.
payment it had been agreed, that the value of the Continental
money fo paid, fhould be adjured afterwards, and credit given
accordingly. This teftimony was oppofed by Sereant, for the
defendant, upon the principle that no man Ihall be allowed to
contradi& or explain away his own inftrument. The cafe in z
Term. Rep. 296. fpeaks of deeds as well as of negociable paper. This evidence is to invalidate the force of the receipt,
and to add a condition, which will take off 4 9 -5oths. of its
operation. Great inconveniences might arife, and third perfons may be deceived and injured, if fuch explanations are ad,
mitted.
Ingerfoll, for the plaintiff, urged that the rule is confined to
negociable paper. It is fo fettled 3 Term. Rep. 33. 36. Be.
fides it is not propofed to contradit the receipt, which only
expreffes the receipt of 40o0 Continental dollars ; but, it would
be fraudulent to prevent the plaintiff from fhewing that the vake was afterwards to be fettled, in order to fet up the implieation of law againft us. No inconveniences can arife ; for, it
is clear, a third perfon may be admitted to explain- Even an
attefing witnefs was admitted in McMinn v. Owen. i Dall.
Rep.
Serjeant, in reply, faid, that before SHIPPEN, Prefident, in
the Common Pleas, a captain of a veffel was not allowed to
prove, that he did not receive the goods mentioned in the bill of
lading.
MKEAN, Chief Yug/ice. The general .expreflion in Walton
Shelley muft be limited as explained in 3 Term. 33. 6.
and, therefore, fince the witnefs is difinterefted, he mult be
admitted. Befides, he is not to contradiS the writing, or deny
any thing that is in it.
REsPUBLICA verfus KEPPELE.

Ao

HABEAS CORPUS was iffued to bring up the body
Aof
Behjamin, a minor, about fourteen years old,
who had been bound by his guardian's confent, to the defendant, to ferve her till he fhould arrive to the age of fifteen.
Having abfconded from her fervice, he was committed to goal,
for that caufe ; and a general queftion was made, whether an
infant could be bound as a fetvant in Pennfylvania ?
THE COURT were unanimouly of opinion, that the indentdre, in this cafe, was void, and gave their opinions feriatim.
The opinion of 7tiflice BRADFORD, (which is all I have 'in.
my notes) entered fully into the principles of the decifion as
follows.
BRADFORD

799
r793.
"'¢"

CASES riled and adjudged in the

BRADFORD. 7ufice : -The imprifonment of this infant, if
juftified at all, muft be fupported under theA& of 17oo, refpe6ting fervants ; fo that the only queftion for our determination is,
whether he be a fervant within the meaning of that a& of Affembly ? i Vol. Dall. Edit. p. r3.
It is clear that this indenture, by which the infant is bound to
five, and not to learn any trade, occupation, or labour, cannot be fupported upon the principles of common law, nor by
the exprels words of any flatute. But, it is faid, that it depends upon the czrom of the country.;,and it is evident that fuch
a cuftom is referred to in our laws. I have taken rome pains to
afcertain its origin and extent.
This cuftom feems to have originated with the firft advent.
turers to Virginia, and to have arifen from the circumftances of
the country. Perfons defiroui of coming to Anerica, and unable to pay for their paflage in any other way, fhipped themfelves
and their children, as fervants. If they wzre imported under
indenture, thofe indentures were held good, affd they were to
ferve according to their itipulation; but if there was no in*denture, they were to ferve according to the cuftom, to wit, five
years, if of full age, or above feventeen ; and if under feventeen,
'till they arrived at the age of twenty-two, or in fome places
'till twenty-four. The early laws of Virginia and Mkfaryland
(fome of them fo early as 1638) fpeak of thefe fervants thus imported: they are called, cc fervants according to the cuftom ;"
4" fervants bound to ferve the accuftomary five years ;" and
fometimes are "defcribed as "9 fervants fold for the cuftom."
Thefe fervants were in'a very degraded fituation. They were
a fpecies of property,, holding a middle rank between flaves and
freemen ; they might be fold from hand to hand ; and they were
under the-corre&ion of laws exceedingly fevere.
It appears by all the early laws on this fubjea, that the cuftom extended to inportedfervants only; and it extended to all
fuch as were imported, whether minors, or adults. The cuftom was founded on neceffity ; and it was thought to be mutually beneficial to.the colony, and to the emigrant. But no fuch
neccffity exifted as to the children who were alrGady in the province. The cuftom, therefore, never extended to them ; and
there was in all the colonies, and particularly in Pennfylvania,
a marked diftinaion between thefe two claffes of minors. This
is to be found iih the articles of the laws agreed-on in England,
and more fully in the. laws of 1632. Theif fpeak only of imported fervants; and dire& how long fuch fervanpts, brought
into the province without indentures, fhall'ferve ; but, in Chap.
X12, all parents and guardians in the province are enjoined to
teach the children under their care to read and write, 'till they
are twelve years old, and that.then they be infirt~lced in fome ufeful
trade

SUPREME COURT OF Pennfylvan;a.

199

?rade arAkill. This policy of putting children out as apprentices, 1793.
is carried into our poor laws, and ihofe which relate to orphans. ,' v
Overfeers of the poor, and the Orphans Courts, have no authority to bind out minors as fervants, even fuch as are the obje&s of public charity. They muft be bound apprentices to
fome " art, trade, occupation, or labour."
There have been infrances of children here being bound out
as fervants ; but this has not been general ; and the Courts of
Juftice have always frowned on the attempts.
I agree, that it is not neceffary to determine how far a Lather may transfer to another, the right which he has to the fervice of his children, in confideration of that other's inftruaing
him in reading, writing, and the li:e ; nor whether the Court
would interfere to take the child out of fuch perfon's cufLody.
But, I think it right to fay, that no parent, under any circumftances, can make his child a firvant, in the fenfe in which this
boy is held as fuch. Though he is intitled to the fervice of his
child, he cannot enforce it, as a mailer can that of his ferrants; he cannot commit him to goal if he runs away ; he
cannot demand the penalty of five days fervice for every day of
abfence ; and, terefore, it is impoffible that he can transfer
fuch right to another.
I am, therefore, of opinion with the reft of the Court, that
this boy is not a fervant within the meaning of the A&t of 1o7a
and confequently, he muff be difcharged.
BA-RNEs's Leffee, veffus IRWIN, et at.

HIS caufe was argued upon a cafe fQated, which includat law for
the following faits. The plaintiff was heir who died
Ted
Henderfon,
Margaret
of
eftate
real
the
of
one moiety
feized of the prmifes in queftion. Previous to her marriage
with Mathias Henderfon, articles of agreement dated the 29 th
of June, 1794, were executed between threm, and a third perfon by which _Mfatthew Henderfon, covenanted, that the real
the
eftate belonging to her, fhould be to their joint ufe during
to
power
full
have
marriage; but that Mrs. Henderfin fhould
had
They
coverture.
during
Will,
or
Deed,
difpofe of it by
o
no iffue.

On the 2 9 th. 7anuaiy 179 , during the coverture,

the
Mrs. Henderfon, made a Will in the ufual form, appointed
real
her
fell
to
power
them
gave
and
executors,
her
defendants
eftate ; the monies arifing from which were bequeathed, except
fome charitable legacies. To the plaintiff fhe left five hillings.
nrtrl
The defendants entered and fold.

