SORRE.E CoILT OF Penfyvartia.

S11

before a fingle judge; but after the return, it mufr be decided
on an application to the Court; which ought to be made) on
the firft day, or, at leaft, within a reafonable period, after the
commencement of the term. The prefent motion cannot,
therefore. be granted.

VAS.M verfus SPIcEr.

SSUE had been joined in this caufe, and the jury were
at the bar ready to be qualified for trying it, when Serjeant moved for leave to retract his plea, and to enterjudgment
by non fum informatus. Rawle and Du .Ponceau, for the plaintiff, oppofed the motion : And Lewis, as amicus curio, obfering that the queftion was of general importance, hoped that
the Court would take this opportunity of corre&ing, what he
confidered to be an unreafonable and unwarrantable pra&ice.
In fupport of his opinion he referred to Sty. Pr..Reg. 371. 7acLaw Dis1. Tit. " J7udgment." 2 Lill Xbr. 104. 5 Con. .Dig.
x-86. x Brown. x96.
BY T14E CouRT :--It has been a prafice for the plaintiff's
attorney to accept a judgment in the mode propofed by the motion ; but the point, for allowing the defendant's attorney,
either as matter of right, or indulgence, to retra& his plea,
under fuch circumftances, has never been brought before the
Court on argument. The inconveniency of the delay, where,
in fa&, there is no difpute, is,however, fo palpab'le, that we'
cannot give a judicial -counteuance to the pra&ice. Therefore,
let the jury be called.
Ex Parte HoxE.

D

ALLS moved for a fpecial Court to try various a&ioxm

in which Mr. Hoiker was defendant, jointly withDuer and
Parker.; but it was obje&ed by Lewis that the reafon of the
a& of Affembly, for granting fpecial Courts, did not apply to
cafes, where there were partners, who could remain, during the
ufual courfq of proceeding, to defend the -caufes,and who did not
join -in the application.
BY THE- CouRT :-The obje&ion is not fufficient to juftify
the refufal of a motion for a fpecial Court. The. Legiflature
intended to relieve defendants, who were ready and willing to
procced to triali and ?ceeraoing a dedlkon gannot pofibly, irrjure

1790.

