)Rh'iaddph;a CouRT OZ COMMoN PLEAft
179e.
M'CLENACHAN, et. a, Verfas M'CART.

T-HE

Plaintiffs, in the courfe of a mercantile correfpon.

dence, offered to read in evidence a letter written by
them to Capt. Loon, who was commander of the vefTel, about
which the controvwrfy had arifen.
But it was oppofed by the defendant's counfel ; who urged,
that it was a letter to a third perfbn, not the agent of the de';
fendant, nor conne&ed with him ; that the defendant had
never heard of fuch a letter before, nor had he in ahy-wife
enioyed the opportunity of contradiffing its contents ; that
although it was true, ihat in the inveftigation of commercial
bufinefs, a greater latitude. of evidence was admitted than in
other cafes, yet that this -was a tranfa~tion between merchants
refident here, which was fufceprible of the regular proof;. and
that if the rules of evidence were, upder fuch circ, lftances, to
be waved, it would in effeft capacitate every one to make
evidence for himfelf,
The adverie counfel contended, however, that in mercantile
tranfafions, the correfpondence which has pafled between the
Irarties interefted, or with perfons who have had an agency in
the bufinefs, has always beefi deemed good evidence ; that
the letter 'new offered was not written expoifao, but is of an
old date, antecedent to the exiftence of any controverfy; that
where no controverfy is in contemplation, the declarations of
a party, made at the time, are evidence; and that fimilar
letters hadt already been introduced into thecaufe.. '
SMpPnN, Prfldent :--The Defendant has himfelf given in
evidence a letter which he wrote to, Capt. LO'n- Befides, it
is certainly common in mercantile "difputes, to lay before the
.17t the infrutions, which are given to captains of veffels.
The court think, therefore, that the objeffion to reading the
letter muft be over-ruled.

RAPALjrE et. a?. vrfax EmoR-Y.

HIS caufe- having been argued at large, upon a moti6tn
for a new trial, the fa&s.and arguments were recapitu,
lated, and the opinion of the court delivered in the following terms.
SHIPPEN, Pred&dnt.-The cafe was {hortly this. Reuben
7aircbild, in the year 1.77S, failed from New-rork, mafter of a
lo a circuitous
irf.el Wonging to the plaintiff and himfeif,
Qz

ToYa&Q

