124

179.

t

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in tiw

deaux, or to pay to the Commonwealth £4,000 fterling, for his

ufe. The writing is in the form of a recognizance, taken as a
flipulation in the Admiralty, but deriving no advantage or preju-dice tlherefrom : It is a legal, fair and honeft contra&, grounded upon a meritorious and valuable confideration ; and although
Mr. Rofs is only a furety (and I am forry he is fuch) yet, iinlefs
lie had entered into the writing, .he contra& might not have
been made ; he has become a party in it, and is refponfible for
the performance, equally with the other defendants. The fum
demanded is fixed and certain; there was a duty certain, which
has'not been performed, for which an a&ion of debt lies. And,
although I fhould have preferred an a&ion of fpecial afumpt
yet, I conceive an a&ion of debt is maintainable.
'TheCommQnwealth muft be confidered
as a truftee forLewis
Lanoix, on fhe authority of
4 Burr..211o.

i Vern. 439.

x Veze,. 453-

The verdi& has been taken in the manner long pra&.ifed in
Peimfylvania, though peculiar to it, and is in confequence of an
a& of AflTembly.
Upon the whole, the Court. unanimoufly agree,. that the
judgmefit be entered for the plaintiff.
Judgment for the Plaintiff.*

Aril Term, 1791.

REsPUcLICA verfius RonERTs.

T

HIS was an indi&lilent for Rdultery, which had been
.

found in the Q9arterSeflions, of Bucks County. The woman was married but the indidment did- not ftate the defendant'to be fo; and, indeed, the contrary was allowed, in the
aourfe of the argument, to be the fa&
The queftion brought
before this Court was, whether in fuch circumftances, the defendant would be convi&ed and fentetxced for adultery, under
the a& of Aiembly ? T 1ol. p' 47- Dal Edit. the. -Jarney
_.t.The defendants.brought a Writ of Errot;,but) on tljd 11th

July, '793, the Judges of the High Court of Errors andAliApeals,.

'nanimeuilr

fiirined the Judgment of the Supreme Court.

SVP EME COURT OF Pennfylvan

io.125

ney Generalcontending for the affirmative of the propofition, 1791.
and Serjeant oppofing it.

TiHE COURT, after confideration, delivered an unanimous
opinion, that under the a& of Affembly, and theuniform practice of eighty-five yearg (a pralice, which, though it does not
make the law, muff be ftrong evidence of what the law is) the
indi6lment could not be fupported on the charge of adultery;
But that the judgment for fornication only, muff be pronounced againft the defendant.
judgment accordingly.

LEEcH verfus ARMITAGE.*
T

HIS was an alion of trefpafs for cutting trees. The de,
. fendant pleaded Liberum Eenementur ; and the plaintiff

replied Liberum Tenementum fuum a'que "hoc, &c. The trial
came on at N1i Priux, in Monigomery County, befpre THH
CHIEF JUSTICE, and Judge SHiPPEN, on the 28th April, 1791.

A preliminary queffion arifing, who fhould open the caufe,
it was decided BY THE COURT, after argument, that the proof
of the ifflue lay upon the defendant : and that he, therefore,
ought to begin. The CrnEF JusTrcE added, that in all cafes,
the party who is firft in the affirmative ought regularly to open;
and referred to Forfythe verfus J7ones, tried at Njfi Prius, in
Ckefler County, where the fame point was ruled.
On the trial of the caufe, the defendant gave in evidence thb
record of a trial, verdi&, and judgment, between the fame
parties, at a former period; to wit, in the year 1755. The'
plaintiff thereupon offered to prove by a witnefs, who was prefent at the former trial, that the evidence, now given by the
plaintiff, was not then produced, nor difcovered : But the proof
was obje6ted to, and the-Court refufed to admit it.
BY THE COURT :-It

would be too dangerous to truft to th.

recolle6tion of a witnefs in fo old a tranfation, in order to fhake
the ftrength of the evidence, which the record imports.
*

Decided at Montgomery, NiJs Prius,.

&eptem~ff

