CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

1795.
-The UNITED STATES veifiS MrIGIHELL.

NDICTMENT for High Treafon, by levying war againft
the United States. 'It was alledged, that the prif6ner was
one of the party that affembled at Couche's Fort, armed; that he
proceeded thence to Gen. Nevill'j, and affifted at the burning
of the generars houfe ; that he attended with great zeal at the
meeting at Bradock's field'; and that on the day prefcribed for
figning a fubmiffion to the government he was intoxicated, refufed to fign himfelf, and was a&ive in diffuading others from
figning. The-circumftance of the prifoner's being at Couche'x
was proved by a number of witneffes; his being at Bradock's
field, by one witnefs and his own confeffion; but there ,as
only one pofitive witnefs to the fa& of his having been at the
burning of general Nreville's houfe, tho' a fecond witnefs faid,
'it ran in his head that he hgd feen hin there," and a third declared that lie had paffed him on the march thither. The fcope
of the teftimony as it refpeied the general obje& of the infurre.61ion, and as it particularly" applied to the prifoner, will be
found fufficiently ftated in the courfe of the arguments and
charge.
The Attorney of the Diftri& (Raw~le) having clofed the evidence, proceeded to ftate the laiw, in fupport of the profecution.
So frequently and fully has the offence of levying war againft
the government been defined, that a doubt caf hardly be raifed
-upon the fubje&. Kings, it is true, have endeavoured to augment the number, and to perplex the defcriptions, of treafons,
as an inftrument to enlarge their powers, and to opprcfs their
fubje&s ; but in Republics, and, particularly, in the _4merican
Republic, the crime of treafon is naturally reduced to a fingle
head, which divides itfelf into thefe Conflitutional propofitions:
ift. Lev-ing -war againft the government, and 2dly. Adhering
to its enemies, giving them aid and comfort :-In other words,
exciting internal, or waging external, war, gainit the State.
The fecond branch of the crime, thus defignated, renders it unlawful and treafonable for any citizen to adhere to a foreign,
public, enemy, whether affailing. the frontiers, or penetrating
into the heart, of our country. But while fuch ', co-operation
endangers the fuccefs and profperity of the community, the effe&s
over, offlered the written verdict, fealed up, to the Clerk. But TUR
CoU, faid, that the paper could not be received. The roreman then
pronounced the-verdict, -pivavoce, and again offered the written verdit;.bit TrFi COURT repeated, 41We cannot open. or recieve it."
Nothirg yas faid, pnblicly, ot the Jury's having adjourned. The
pardoned.
siferzdant was e'yennlu

CIRCUIT CoURT, Pennf)lvana DiftriC&.

349

feas of domeflic infurrelion, (which the firft branch of the di- z79svifion contemplates) ftrike at the root of its exiftence ;"and, in
free countries above all, muft be prevented, or corre6ted, by
the moft vigilant and efficient fanCtions of the law.
What conftitutes a levying of 'war, however, muft bG the
fame, in technical interpretation, whether committed under a
republican, or a regal, form of government; fince either inftitution may be affailed 'and fubverted by the fame means. Hence
we are enabled, in the firif ftage of our own experience, to acquire precife and fatisfaCtory ideas upon the fubjeCrt, from the
matured experience of another government, which has employed
the fame language to defcribe the offcnce, 2nd is guided by the
fame rules of judicial expofition. By the Ang/ Zlih
authorities, it
is uniformly and clearly declayed, that railing a body of men to
obtain, by intimidation' or violence, the -cpeal of a law, or to
oppofe and prevent by force and terror, tl., execution of a law,
is an a6t of levying war. Doug. 57 o . Again ;-an infurreCtioni
'with an avowed defign to fupprefs public offices, is an aa of
levying war: And, although a bare confpiracy to levy var,
may not amount to th4t fpccies of treafon; yet, if any of the
confpirators a6tually levy war, -it is treafon in all the perfons
that confpired ; and in Foft. 2 r 8, it is even laid down, that an
afembly armed and arrayed in a warlik.e manner for a treafonable purpofe is Bellum levatum, though not Beltm perculum.
Thofe, likewife who join afterwards, though not concerned at
firif in the plot, are as guilty as the original confpirators ; for
in Treafon all are principals; and whenever a lawlefs meeting
is convened, whether it fhall be treated as riot, or treafon, will
depend on the quo anmo.' 4 B1. Com. 81. iH. H. P. C. 133.4.
RjL 213. 2zo. 2i5. 218. x Hawk. P. C. 37- 4 .1. Con. 35.
x Hal. P. C. 440. 8 St. Tr. 247. 2 St. Tr. 586.7. KeiL 19.
3 IV .9.
The evidence, unfortunately, leaves no room for excufe, or
extenuation, in the application of the law to the prifoner's cafe.
The general and avowed obje6Ct of the confpiracy at Ca'ohe's
JIrt, was to fupprefs the offices of excife in the Fourth Survey.
As an important meafure for that purpofe, it was agreed to go
to General Neville's houfe, and to compel him to furrender his
office, and his official papers. Some of the perfons who were
at Couche's Fort, went,, accordingly, to General lrev!lle's, and

terminated a courfe of lawlefs and outrageous proceedings by
burning his houfe. The prifoner is proved by four witneffe.s
to have been at Couche's Fort ; and fo far from oppofing the expedition to General Neville's, he offered himfelf to reconnoitre.
Being thus originally combined with the confpirators, ina treafonable purpofe, io levy war, it was unneceflary that the
purofe fiou4d'be al wardd executed, in oider to convik them
all

CA s- ruled and adjudged in the

. 35-

1795. all of treafon, and much lefs is it neceffary to his conviction,.
that he'fhould have been prefent at the burning of General Ne,
'ile's houfe, which was the, confummation of their plot, or that
the burning flhould be proved by two witneffe's. But he is,
likewife, difcovered, by one of the witneffes at leaft, within a
few rods of the General's, at the' moment of the conflagration
and he is feen marching in the cavalcade, which efcorted the
dead body of their leader, in melalncholy triumph, from the
fcene of aeCion to Barclay's houfe. It is not neceffary to confider the meeting at Bradock's field as an independent treafofi,
though the -avowed intention was to attack the garrifon at Pittsbarg,, and to expel certain public officers from the towin; but
the conduc of the prifoner on that occafion, concurring in every violent propofition that was made ; and his refraatry and
feditious deportment on the day prefcribed for figning the declaration of fubmiflon to the laws ; are corroborative deraon4.rations of that mala mens, that dark and dreary turbulence of
foul, which is regardlefs of every focial, moral, and religious,
obligation.*
The Counfel for the prifoner (E. Tilghrman & T7bomars) premifed't that they did not conceive it to be their duty to fhew,
that the prifoner was guiltlefs of any defcription of crime againfl
the Unit'd States, or the'State of Pern;,5lvania; but they conIterided, that lie had not committed the crime of High Treafon;
and ought, therefore, to be acquitted upon the prefent indi&nent.
The adjudications in Englandupon the various defcriptions of
treafon, have been worked, incautioufly, into a fyftem, by the
dleft-u6tion of which, at this day, the government itfelf would
be£erioufly affe&ed: but even there, ,he beft judges and the
:Lbleft commentators, while they acquiefce in the decifions that
have already taken place, furnifh a ftrong caution againft the too
eafy admiffien of future cafes, which may feem to have a parity
of reafon. Conftru&ive, or interpretative treafons, muft be the
dread and fcourge of any nation that allows them.- I Hal. P.C.
132- . 259' 4 BL Corn. 85. T"ke, then, the diftinaion of treafon
by levying war, as. laid down by the Attorney of the Diftri&,
aid it is a conftruLtive, or interpretative, -weapon, which is calculated to annul all diftin6tions heretofoie wifely eftablifhed in,
ihe grades and ptniflhments, of crimes 5 and by whofe- magic
power
* PATTF.RO,

fJustice.. BMore thb

defence is.opened, I wifh to

2irect the attefiion-o. the prifone 's counfel to two conitidera'ions :
rft. Whether tbe confpiracy to levy war at. Coucbe's Fort, was rot,

in legal contemplat on, an actual levying of war? --A. Whether the
pr&eedings at General Nevi/le's houfdewere not a continuation of the

z,.t, -whieb or'ginared at Couche's Fort? For, feveral witneffes Jhave-

pro%e I that the prifoner was at Goucbe's Fort, and one puitive vzit,ei ihas proved, that be was at Gen. Neville's houfe.

CRcur- CouRT, Pennl.tvania Diftri&.

91

power a mob may eafily be converted into a confpiryacy; and a 1795
riot aggravated into High Treafon. Such, however, is not the t
fenfe which Congrefs has expreffed upon this very fubje&l; for,
if a bare oppofition to the execution of a law can be confidered
as conflituting a traiterous offence, q levying, war againft the
government, it muft be equally' fo, in relation to every other
law, as well as in relation to the excife law; and in relation to
the Marfhall of a Court, as much as in relation to the Supervifor
tf a Diftri& : And yet, in the Penal Code of the United States,
the offence- of wilfully obftru&ing, refifting, br oppofing, any"
officer, in ferving, or attempting to ferve any procefs, is confitiered and puniflied merely as a inifdemeanor. (i ol. Sw(f's
Edi4.tp. o 9 .f . 22.) Let it be granted, that to compel Congrefs
to repeal a law, by violence, or intimidation, is treafon' (in
the Ehglif/, authorities rightly conifrued, claim no greater conceffion) it does not follow, that iefifting the execution of a law,
or attempting to coerce an officer into the refign2tion of his
commiffion, will amount to the fame offence. Let it be granted, alfo, that an infurrr6tion, for the avowed purpofe of fuj).
preffing all the excife offices in the Unifed States, may" b conflrued into an a6 of levying war againft Oie government (and
the Engij/ authorities fpeak exprefsly of the univerfality of the
objeCt, as an effential chara&eriftic of this fpecies of treafon)
it does not follow that an attempt to oblige one officer to refin
or to fupprefs 'all the offices in one diftric-t, will be a crime of
the fame denomination. i 'Hai.P. C. 135. Nor can another
do lrine, urged in fupport of the profecution, be fairly recognized. It is laid down in all the books, which have been cited,
it is admitted by the attorney general, that a bare confbiracy to
levy war, does not amount to treafon; but, it is contended,
that if, at any time afterwards, a part of the con fpir4tors fliould
execute the plot, the whole of them will be involved in the'guiit
and puniflment. Thus, no opportunity is left for repentance;
the motives which reftrain the abfentees frorp attending at the
feene of aaion, however pure, can furnifh no eiufe ;-and
they are doomed to anfwr for the condii61 of others, which
they may, in fa&, difapprove, and which they cannot, in any degree, c ontroul. The Itate of the evidence, however, rendtrs
it unavoidable, that this ground fhould be taken ; for, un!efs
the proceedings at Couche's Fort and at Gen. Arvii/e's houfe can
be fo combined and interwoven as to form one a&ion, there
are 'not two witneffes to prove that the prifoner was at the latter place; and the condu& at the former, could only amount,
under the moft rigid'conltru&ion, to a confpiracy to levy war,
not to an a&ual levying of war againft the government. With
the neceffity for two witneffes to an overt act of treafon, it is nPo
in the power of Judger or Jurips to difpentfe j-it is a flhield
from

352

CAsEs ruled. and adjudged in the

r 795. from oppr~ffion with which the Conflitution furnifhes the prilfoner; and it cannot be fupplied by vague conje&ures, founded
on the feeble rccolle& ion of a wvitnefs; nor by idle declarations
of-the party himfelf, in a ftate of intoxication; a flate that does
not juftify the perpetration of a crime, but may'fairly be fuppofed to deprive the criminal of a knowledge of the extent of
his confeffion. 2 Hawk. 604. if nct. Fofi. C. L. 240. 4 B. C.
356. 1 Dall. Rep. 39. 40If this vizw of the law is correc, it will be eafy to flhew,
that its operation upon the fats,c'will entitle the prifoner to an
acquittal, By the meeting at Bradock's field no a& of treafon
_was committed-; nor was any plan for levying war c6ntrived.
The people afrembled there upon a general invitation, founded
on the calamitous ftate of the country; and, though they propofed banifhing certain citizens (who were not public officers of
the UnitedStates) from Pitiurgh (which cannot furely berdeemed trcafon) they neither executed that proje&, nor committed
any other outrage ; but after fome menaces arid-an idle parade,
difperfed to their refpetive homes. The prilfoner was certainly
at Bradock's field ; but no treafon being committed there, his
attendance is not a foundation for the prefent indi&nent. It
may be admitted, likewife, that at Bradock's field, he made frme
vaunting declarations of a traiterous intention ; but a traiterous intention there, is no proof of his having levied war againit
the government at another time,'and in another place. With
refpe& to the criminal proceedings at Gen.Neville's houfe (which
after all amount to the crime of arfon, and not of treafon) it is
agreed that only one pofitive witnefs proves the fagk of the prifoner's having been there ; but even that witnefs ftates, that the
Prifoner was alone, at the diftance of 30 or 40 rods'; and it is
not recolle&ed whether he had a gun. Then it only remains
to confider the effe&t of the prifoner's prefence at Couchs Fort ;
for, his being feen in a cavalcade on the road for Geh. Neville's,
and his condua on the day prefcribed for figning the fubmiffion
to govcrnment, when he was notorioufly drunk, may prove him
to be a very bad man, but wi~l not be fufficient to maintain a
charge of High'Treafon. It does not, then, appear by the teftimony of two witneffes, that the meeting at Couclbe's Fort was
convened for the purpofe of accompliflhing a compulfory repdal
of the excife laws, or a fuppfeffion of the excife offices. rhe
meeting feems to have originafed merely in a wifh to confider
what it was beft to do in the a&ual ftate of the country. On
that point a committee was chofen, or rather was felf-created ;
and the members determined to fend a flag to Gen.Neville. It
does not appear with what view the flag was to be fent; but it
will not be prefumed, when .the evidence is filent, to be with a
view to attack the General's houie) to force a repeal of the excifC

tCIRCIT CO't T, Petinf),yania DIft &

33

-nfe law, or to 'compel the officer's refignation ; and even the' 1795fa& itfelf is only proved by one witnefs. Befides, the condu t
,of the committee, however -culpable, will not be fuflicient to involve the whole affembly in the guilt of Treafon. It is true,
that the prifoner exprefled his willingnefs to reconnoitre Gen.
Nevills houfe i but this expreffioh, likewiiA, is oqly proved by
'one witnefs; and even if it were proved by fifty witneffes," it
does not amount to an overt a& of Treafon by levying war; nor
does it appear that he ever did reconnoitre, or furnifli intelligence to the committee. The proof againft Porter(an't..p. 3 45)
was as ftrong, and yet he was acquitted. Upon the whole, if
the proceedings at Couches' Fort and Gen. Neville's houfe, muft
be confidered as one a&ion, that a&ion muff take its. colour,
quality, and chirater, from what was done at the latter place ;
and as there are not two witneffes to the overt a& committed
there, it is immaterial what was the condu& of the'prifoner at
Coucbh/s Fort. The perpetration is the gift of the crime; and
he only is to be adjudged guilty, who joined in the a&ual per*petration.
The Attorney General of the UnitedStates (Br.rdford) in reply.
It is effenfial to the fecurity of life, liberty, and property, that
the powers of government hould exift under fome modification,
and under whatever modification they exift, an attempt to defeat
or deftroy them, muft be Treafon. If, however, the principles
afferted in the courfe of the prifoner's defence fhould prevail, a'
Olagrant attempt to.obftru& the legitimate operations of the government, to prevent the execution 'of its laws, and to coerce
its bfficers into a dereli&ion of their truft, muft no longer be
regarded as High Treafon ; every man engaged in the adminiftration of the public affairs has erred in confidering the infurre&ion as aiiy thing more than a common, contemptible, riot;
i7igol, who has been convi&ed, ought to have been 'acquitted;
and all the prifoners committed upon the fame charge, ought
inflantly to be releafed l But this doarine and its confequences
will not be found'compatible with our Conftitution ; and cannot receive the countenance of a Court of Juffice.
To proceed, however, in a more minute analyfis of the de'fence; it has been argued, that Congrefs has provided a fpecifier
punifhment, for the offence of refiffing or obftru&ing the fer-vice of procefs, obvioufly diftinguifling it from Treafon ; and
that it is as much Treafon to Tefift the execution of one law as
another; to refift the Marfhall of a Court, as much as the Supervifor of a Diftri&. The analogy is, in a great meafere, juft:
In either cafe, if the refifance is made by a fdw perfons, in a
particular inftance, and under the impulfe of a particular intereft, the offence would not amount to High Treafon ; but, if,
iv either cafe, there is a general riing of a whole County, to
prevent
y

354
1795.
L

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

prevent the officer from difcharging his duty in relation to the
public at large, the offence is, unqueftionably, High Treafon.
Thus an oppofition was lately made to the appointment of a
particular Judge in Mzigin County, and he was, forcibly, driven
from the Bench ; but the offence was profecuted merely as a
riot, upon this principle of difcrimination, that the defign was
not to prevent the Governor from appointing any Judge, but
only to difplace an unpopuJar individual.
Again, it has beer urged, that the criminal intention muff
point to the fuppreffion of all the excife offices in the United
States, or it cannot amount to High Treafon. If it is meant by
this argument, that the infurgents ofP',njfIvaniamuff have contemplated a march from Georgia to Neqo Hanpire, it is extravagant and abfurd : but, in another view, it is perfetly correl;
for, if it vos intended that, by tFeir lawlefs carreer and examples
Coigrefs fhould be forced into a repeal of the obnoxious law,
it neceffarily followed, that, fhom the fame caufe, the offices of
excife would be fuppreffed throughout the Union. That univerfality of objea, which the books require, was infeparable
from the nature of the oppofition,; for, it was impoflible to
contemplate the repeal of the excife law in one Survey, or in one
State, without effe6ting it in every Survey, and in every State.
The truth is, however, that the infurgents did not entertain a
perfonal diflike for Gen. Neville; but in every ftage of their pro-.
ceedings, at Couche's Fort, at the General's houfe, and at Bradock's field, they were a~tuated by one fingle, traiterous, motive, a
determination, if pra6ticable, to frutrate and prevent the execution of the excife law. The whole was one great infurre&ion;
and it is immaterial at what point of time, or place, from its
commencement to its termination, any msn became an agent in
carrying it on. Many perfons, indeed, may have attended innocently at Couche's Fort (as was the cafe with Ponlei) but
thofe would not remain long, after the purpofe of the meeting
was developed. To render any man criminal. he muft not only
have been prefent, but he mutt have taken part with tie infurgents; yet, whether he was prefent at Conchs Fort, on the
march to Gen. Neville's, or at the .burning of the General's
houfe, if his. intention was, traiterous. his offence was treafon.
3 Infl./9. The overt act laid in the inditrment (which is drawn
from the moft approved precedents) is levying war ; and war
may be levied, though not actually made. Fofl. 218. It is'agreed
that this overt a6t muff be proved by two witneffes ; but there
is a difference as to what conftitutes the aft itfelf. Now, it is
manifeff from every apthority, that to affemble in a body, armed
and arrayed, for fome treafonable purpofe, is an a& of leviying
war; this was the cafe at Couche'sFort; and the prifoner's active

atteidance there is prQyed by a Pumber of witneffes.

It is not
rcqdired

EncurT

Coutr, Penvfytvania Diftrij&.

required that every witnefs fhould have feen him at the fame fpot, 179;.
at the fame moment, and in the fame acl; but if they fee him
at the place and time of rendezvous, exhibiting the fame fpecies
of traiterous condu(t, the law is fatisfied. The confpiracy to
levy war being effe6ed, all the confpirators are guilty, though
they did not all attend at Gn Neville's houfe. I Hal P. C.13 2.
F00, 213. 215. Befides, the meeting at £radock's field is a diftind and fubftantive ad of Treafon; and the piifoner is proved
by four witneffes to have been there. The defign of the meeting, was, avowedly, to oppoft the execution of the excife law,
to over awe the government, to involve others in the guilt of
the ir, urrction, to prevent ihe punifhment of the delinquents,
to banifih unpopular individuals fiom the town, and' to attack
the garrifon of Pittjburg. The hafty declarations of the que
animo, proceeding fr, m the prifoner himfelf, ought not to have
much v'eigit, were they not fo ftrongly corroborated by other
tefiim"..y.
The charge of THE CouRT was delivered to the Jury in fubiance as follows.
PATTE-RSON, Jffce. Thefirfg queflion to be confidered is,
'what was the generat obje t of the infurreCtion ? If its obje&
was to fupprefs the excile officea, and to prevent the execution
of an a&d of Congrefs, by force and intimidation, the officnce, in
legal eftimatton, is High Treafon ; it is an ufurpation of the
authority of government ; it is High Treafon by levying of war.
Taking the tell imony in a rationol and connedtd point of view,
this was the objed : It was of a general nature, and of nation.
al concern.
Let us attend' for a moment, to the evidence. With what
view was the attack made on General 2Neville's houfe ? Was it
to gratify a fpirit of revenge againft him as a private citizen, as
an individual ? No :-as a private citizen he had been highly refpe&ed and beloved; it was only by becoming a public officer,
that he became obnoxious; and it was on account of his holding the excife office alone, that his houfe had been ailed, and
his perfon endangered. On the firft day of attack, tie infurgents were repulfed ; but they rallied, rcturned with greater
forc!, and fatally fucceeded in the fecond attempt. They were
arrayed in a military manner;. they afFeted the military forms
of negociation by a flag ; they pretended no perfonal hoftility
to General Neville ; but they infifted on the furrender of, his
commiflion. Can there be a doubt, then,_that the objvct of the
infurredtion was of a general and public nature
The fecond queftion to be confidered, is-how far was the
prifoner traiteroufly connected with the infurgents ? It is pro.
ved by four witneffes, that he was at Couche's Fort; 'at a great
Aiftance from his own home, and that he was arzned. One
Ty 2
witnefs

356

CSs ruled and adjudged in the

1795. witnefs proves, pofitively, that he was at the burning of Ge .
evill's houfe i and another fays, ft it runs in his head, that he,
%alfo, faw the prifoner there." On this Ratp of the fals, a difficulty has been fuggefted. It is faid, tha. ,oa&t of Treafon
was' committed at Couches Fort ; and that, however treafonable
the proceedings at Gen. Neville's may have been, there are not
two witnefes, who prove that the prifoner was there. Of the
Treafon, there muft, undoubtedly, be proof by
overt-a
two witneffes; and, it is equally clear, that the intention and
the a&, the will and the deed, muft concur; for, a bare confpiracy is not Treafon. But let us confider the prifoner's condu& in a regalar and conne&ed courfe. He is proved, by a
competent number of witneffes, to have been at Couche's Fort.
At Couche's Fort the confpiracy was formed, for attacking Gen.
.eville's houfe; and the prifoner was actually paffed on tb&
march thither. Now, in Foler 213. the very at of marchig is
confidered as carrying the traiterous intention into effe& ; And
the Jury (who will fometimes find the mofi pofitive teftimony,
contradi&ed by circumifances, which carry irrefiftable conviction to the mind) will confider how far this aids the doubtful
language of the fecond witnefs, even as to the faa of the priioner's being at Gen. Neville's houfe.
On the perfonal motives and condua of the prifoner, it
would be fuperfluous to make a particular commentary. He
was armed, he was a volunteer, he was a party to the variouv
confultations of the infurgents ; and in every fcene of the infurrefion, from the affembly at Couche's Fort to the day prefcribed
for fubmiffion to the government, he makes a confpicuous aparmed, at Bradock's field, would of
pearance. His attendance,
itfelf amount to Treafon, if his, defign was treafonable.
Upon the whole, whether the cofpiracy at-Couche'. Fort may
of itfelf be deemed Treafon ; or, the confpiracy there, and the
proceedings at Gen. Neville's houfe, are confidered as one z%
(which is, periaps, the true light to view the fubje& in) the
prifoner muft be pronounced guilty. The confequences are not
to weigh with the Jury :-it is their province to do juftice; the
attribute oi mercy is placed by our Conftitution in other hands.
Verdi&LGUILTY.*

The
1' The prifoner was -pardoned; and the Prefident afterwards grant*d a general amnefly to all the infurgents, who were not objects of
depending profrctions.

CICUIT COURT, Pennfylvania Dftria&
1799.

The SAME CAUSE.
In the courfe of the trial the following points were ruled by
the Court.
I. The Attorney of the Diftri& propofed-to prove, that a
circular letter had been written at Canonjurgb, on the 28th of
July 1794, by feveral leaders of the infurreffion, calling upon
the militia bfficers, and other citizens, to affemble at
field on the ift of Augtfi following, with arms, ammunition,
and provifions ;-that the witnefs had feen the original letter,
which was left with him, under inftru-tions to pafs it on to
another perfon ;--and'that the copy now produced was conformable, in fubftance, to the original.
But it was obje&ed, by the counfel for the prifoner, that be1bre a copy of the letter could be given in evidence, the lofs of
the original muff be proved ; and even then the witnefs muff
be able to atteft, that he had compared them, and that the copy
offered was in all refpets corret.
It was anfwered, by the Attorney of the Diftri&, that fromthe general circulation of the letter, copies muft have been multiplied, and during a feafon of fuch confufion (to which the
common rules of evidence are entiiely inapplicable) it isimpra&icable to trace the comparifon of any one copy with the
original.
BY THF COURT. If it.can be proved, that the copy of the
letter now produced, was one of thofe copies, which were actually circulated at the time of the infurrefion, it is admiflible
evidence: but, otherwife, it cannot be -read to the Jury.
JI. The Attorney of the Diftrit offered teftimony to prove,
that, in the courfc of the infurre&ion, the prifoner joined in
robbing the public mail of the United States; and that feveral
of the letters, thus intercepted, had beer. read at the meeting
at Bradck's field.
But it was obje&ed, on behalf of -he prifoner, that the robbery of the mail, was a felony, for which, as a fubftantive and
independent crime, he was aE~ually charged by another inditment; and that, therefore, evidence relating to it fhould not
be given on the prefent ifftue, as the prifoner was hot prepared
to anfwer, and a prejudice might be xcgited againft him in the
mind of the Jury.
BY THE COURT. An a& committed -W -1 a felonious intention, cannot be given in evidence upon the trial of an indiftment for High Treafon. It does not yet appear, that the mail
was intercepted and rifled with a traiterous intention ; and, as
far as it refpets the prifoner, there is another indilmefit againit
him, charging the offence merely as a felony. Under thefe cir4pril
umfainces the teftimony caungt be admitted.

Bradock'r

