128

Cst

ruled and adjudged ih the

1791. cias. 'That, in the latter care, the a& (I Vol;DaII. Edit.p. 7 . 2.)
%
directs that no greater eftate fhall be conveyed than the lands
are mortgaged for : And in this cafe the woman had not done
any a6t to bar her eftate in the lands. He added that in iVewJerfey, where the ait of Affembly was very fimilar, the wife
was always held to be entitled to dower.
TWilcock, after ffating that at Chber, in the cafe- of eHowell
veifu Laycock, it was determined that a fale by an Executor, to
whom lands were devifed for the payment of debts, barred the
widow's dower, would hive proceeded; but,
BY THE CoURT:-The pbint has been too long fettled to be
ilirred now ; and judgment muft be for the defendant.
THoMPsoN verfus THoMPs.ox,
L

IBEL for a divorce a menfa et

toro, charging the dejfeindant with various a~ts of cruelty-,
and indignities, that

rendered
Libellant's fituation
Defendant
t~/ando, &c.thepleadedthat
probefore theinfupportable.
filing of the faid
libel, his wife
•(the libellant) had feparated herfeif from him, and that "he had
offered to receive and cohabit with her again, and ufe her as at
good hufland ought to do." To'this plea the defendant dlemurred. Tilghman, in fupport of it, conitended, that by the a&t of
Aflembly " concerning Divorces arnd Alimony"(2 VIol. Dall.Edit.
p. 38:I.) the Court were obliged either to fufpend, or to dif'charge,
any fentence, feparating hufband and wife, from bed and board,
whenever the hulband fhould make the offer, thai was fluted in the
anfwer : And that if this was a good reafon to annul a fentence,
afortiori it is afuflicienit anfwer to the complaint of this libel
This too, he added, was agreeable to the pra~tice of the fpiritual Court in England. 2'reced. Chanc. 495. .Angiero. A4ngier :
Where, itris faid, that Alimony continued nio longer than till the
i e
•parties became reconciled, and confented to cohabit.
Serjeant, for the libellant, infifted, that the Court had a difcretion to fufpeftd, or annul, the fentence, as the circunitances,
under wvhich the poffer fhould 'be made, required ; or to refufe
to do either : And that, at all events, fuch an offer-as was fiated
in the libel, made before fentence, could not prevent the jurifdi~tion of the Court, or a feparation, where fuch extreme cruelty was ftated to hav been ufed by the hulhand.
'IS CouRT inclined to think, that even after fentenee, the
mere offr of thehufband would not, in all cafes, be a caufe for
fufpending it; and that the a&t left them a difcretion, upon t~
offer being mad; to hear the wife, and to continue the fentenc&

SUPRhM.

COURT OF Pen.fifvaum

-

t29

in full force, if the circumftances of the cafe required- it : (a) t79zz
But they were clearly of opinion, thAt the defendant's anfwer t---e"
was infufficient, and thereupon decreed a divorce from bed and
board. As to Alimony, the defendant not being prepared up.
'Curiaadiifat'e vut;
that pointy

-SwEEN-Y' Leffee Vdei

To E-hA-

HE material fa&s, on the trial 6f this eje&ment, appzared
to be theft - Thd defefidant went ino Northiumberland
ounty, in the year 173 7,. and made an improvement on a traft
of land, which tra& he afterwards exchanged with his brother,
for the nile in queftioni with a view to eftablifh a permanent
fettlement f6r his family. The war, however, broke o'ut foon
afterwards ; and there being a call for foldiers; he enlifted, on
the afiurance of his friends, that they would take cake of the
prermifes for him. In the year 1775,.the leffor of the plaintiff;
likewife *ent into Northumberland County,, and obtained poffeffion of the premifes by virtue of a contra& in writing with
he defendant's brothdr) in the nature of a leafe, by which the
plaintiff coienanted to make improvements for the benefit of the
defendant. . The leafe was depofited in the binds of a'third perfon; but the plaintiff's wife, by a trick, got it into her hands and
deftx'oyed it, in order to make way for - claim to the land in'the:
plaintiff's own right. The plaintiff having "made confiderable
improvements, was driven away by the Indians, in the year
1778 ; andonthe 3 d of -May, 17851 he fobk out a watranrt
for the piemifesi the defendant's warrant being dated the pre-i
ceeding day. Upon a hearing before the board of propertythere was a decifion in favour of th¢ defendant,
The argument turned, principallys on the eonftu&iorn oi t4e
8. 9 and i ol, fe&ions csf the a& of the 21 Decembe-, 1784 (z
'VolDall.Edit; p. 23-5.) whlch give a Ire-emptive right tolthofe
perfons, and their legal reprefentatives, " who had heretofore
occupied ard cultivated fmall trats of land, &c. and by their
refdlutefland andfafering during the late war, merited that thei
fhould have the pr6-emption of their re fpetive-prantations?"
For the Plaintf it was contended, that he was the actual
fetder contemplated by the law, having remained on the
land 'till he ivas driven oftt by the Indians ; which 1brotight hiri.
precifely within the favoured defcription of fettlers mentioned
1786.
In thepreambleof the fubfeqttent
trot,
(2
ra aa, of the 3 oth Decemberi
T

(a) Vide j Ak 295. ftead versus Head.
* Tills cauif wa: tried at' Suniur.,,.isi Prius, in Octolery 17914

