J*

-CAsEs

ruled and adjudged in the

T790. forfive days, mentidned in the a&, that the tenant mhight have thc-

%

opportunity of replevying them, in the fame plight in which they,
were when reflrained. If that was the conftruion of the ftatute of W~illiam, the like conftruf&ion will hold under our at
of Affembly, which follows the words of the ftatute. Even at
common law, goods diftrained might be left on the premifes,
for a reafonable time. In the prefent cafe, they were left but one
day, before they were removed by the tenant himfelf, and they
were quickly foflowed, and appraifed in the houfe to which they
were removed. By the a& of Affieubly they could not be appraifed
till bye'days nfter the diftrefs, they were aEually appraifed within eight days, though clandeftinely iemoved by the tenant, ir
the mean time. 'By the common law, in, the cafe- of a pound.
breach, by the owner of the goods, the diirainor may have his
aEion deparcofra&lo, or may take the goods "deftrained,wbereverhe
I Rol. Ak..
4.
finds them, and impound them again ; Co Lit-47.
the
making
and
goods
the
following
The
661.
Mod674 ; 12
appraifement, in fo fhort a time, under the diretions of the
Officer who mAde the diftrefs, was all that could be reafonably
expe&ed from ,the landlord, who ought not to be defeated of his
remedy, by the unlawful a&t of the tenant. If not defeated as agaitift the tenant, he could not be defeated as againft the firif
diftrainor, who l ad no better right than the tenant himfelf had,,
unlefs his original lien had continued.
The judgment for a return in favor of the firft dif'rainor, the
iffuing the writ of retorno habendo, and the taking of the goods.
tinder it by the Sheriff, were all fubfequent to the fecond diftrefs and appraifement, and before the diftrainor could by law
expofe them to fale. We therefore think, there was no default
in him, that the goods were in cu/lodia legis, fubje& to his lien,.
and were, confequently, wrongfully taken by the defeudant, un-,
der the writ of retorno babendo.
-POWELL 'vBIDDLE, adminylrator de bonis non &'c. of S. MIFFLIN.

HIS was an aaion'of debt to recover a legacy, under the.
follovwing circumftances. Theteflator by his laft will
.and teftament bequeathed 9iunto his friend Samuel Powell, (fon.
of Samuel.Powell, of.the City of Philadelphia, Carpenter), the
fum of Cioo in fpecie, to be put out to intereft by his executors;
the whole principal and intereft to be paid to the faid Samuel
Powell, when he fhall attain 21 years of age : Bui in cafe he
depart this life, in his minority, or before the faid legacy be.
fliall
to him, then the fame to fink into the refidue of the teftator's eltatei &¢." At the trial of the caufe, evidence was, offer-

-paid.

P Iadelphla

COURT Ol CoMMoN PLEA4.

7f

vd, and admitted, to fbew, that though the legacy was bgqueath- 1792 .
ed to Samuel Powell, it was, in fa&, intended for the plaintiff,
whofe chriftian name is William : And a verdi& was, thereupon,
allowed to he taken- in favour of the plaintiff, for the principal
fum, and intereft ; fubjea to the opinion of the Court, on a
rule to flew caufe why there fhoulT not be a new tril. The
fa&s proved were, that .William, the plaintiff, had attained the
age of 2z years ; that he was the younger fon of the teftator'a
deceafed daughter, who had been married to Samuel Pvovell, the
carpenter, named in the will; that he was well known to the
teftator ; and that the teftator ufually, by miftake, or, by
way of nickname, called him Samuel I but that Samuel Pawell,
the carpenter, had another fon, a mafon, whyofe name was aIally Samuel, the iffue of a fetond marriage, and with whom the
teftator had no conne&ion, or acquaintance, whatever.
-On arguing the motion for a new trial, by higgerfll for
the plaintiff, and Miffin for .the defendant, it was agreed
on both fides, that the mifnomer was merely a miftahke ; but
neverthelefs it was contended for the defendant, that the evidence to prove it, ought not to have been admitted ; for,
whatever might be the diverfity of decifions under other cir.
cumftances, i was alledged, that in no inftance had a legacy been awarded contrary to the exprefs defignation of the
will, when a perfon of the name and defcription of the legate
exifted, capable of taking the bequeft. Parol proof can n ver
be allowed to fupply the intent of the teftator, in a trial before

a jury; though it is fometimes received on queftions before the

'court, to ifiform the confciences of the judgcs. i. Rq. Abr. 230.
3 "Chan. Rep. 17 6. 2.Atk. 215. 3. P. W/m"25 3 . 254. 9. Mol,
1. 2. rern. 918. 252. 337.625. 5o6. 2.Freem.52 S. 6o. 8.Vn..
A4br. 198. 8.39. Nor will evidence ever be admitted to contradi& a will, though, in cafes of neceffity, it may l e received,
to afcertain a perfon meant, where there are tfo perfons of
the fame name, or where a man has been ufually called by a
P -Win. 141.
nick-name. 2 -4th. 239. 372.
'Forthe'Plaintif,it was faid, that the rule \vhich excludes the
interpretation of deeds and wills by evidence dehors, muft, like

all general rules, be liable to reafonable exceptions. If, for
inftance, a refulting ufe would arife by implication ; parol teft'mony may be adnitted to rebut theimplication. So, likewife,
in the cafe of an executor, the intention of the teftator refpe&fing the difpofition of his refiduary perfonal eftate, may be
proved by extrinfic evidence. If; however, the controverfy
arofe upon the will itfelf, the court would, probably, be inclined to confine their conftru&ion to the terms of the inftrument ;
but when the difficulty proceeds from a fa&, independent of
the wills it muft be obviated by the 9rdinary means, employed
to.

72

Citsgs ruled arid adjudged in the

2790. to elucidate any other doubtful point.

Suppofe a man were to
many years under a fifitious name, which happened to be
the real name of another perfon in the fame community, could
he not take a legacy under the fifitious name? Could he not,
likewife, take it, after affuming his proper name ? And if fo, does
not the claim depend on a fa& dehors the will, which muff be
eftablified by independent proof ? The prefent difpute, in the
fame manner, refolves itfelf into this queftion, whether evidence mhy not be given, in -thecafe of two perfons of the fame
family, one called William, and the other called Samuel, that the
teftator knew the latter, though he did not know the former ?
And, confequently, that the legacy given by a miftake of
names to the perfon he did not know, was intended, in fa&,
for the perfon he did know, who in the belqueft is emphatically
called his friend? It is admitted, from the authorities cited by
the oppofite courrfel, that where there is not a perfon of the
name mentioned in the will, explanatory evidence may be given
of the teftator's intention; and *that if Samuel had not exifted,
William might have enjoyed the benefit of the legacy under
armuef's name. But the principle extends further than that
admiffion; and as between William and the teftator, an ob.
,vious miftake ought not to be enforced againft all the truth
and juftice of the cafe. In P. Win. 14 1. both the chriftian
name and fir-name of the legatee were miftaken ; and there
were other perfons capable of taking the legacy; yet the decree
was favorable to the party intended, though not defignated, by
the bequeft. All the authorities, indeed, concur in that point,
that no injury can arife from admitting parol proof to afcertaiu
the thing, or perfon, defcribed by the teftator. Rich.Law of lWills
x63. 279. 281. 2 Kern. 593. 8 Vin. Abr. 197. Ca. in Eq. 212.
SEHIPPEN Prefdent. The court entertain no doubt in this
cafe ; and, therefore, ought. not to poftpone a decifion. The
bequeft was made to a perfon who was always called Samuel by
theteftator, though, in fa&, named William ; and whom the
teftatbr had nurtured and educated from his infancy ; when, on
the other hand, he did'not even know the perfon really called
Samuel. The evi ence to explain thofe fa&s was pvoper to be
laid before the ; y ; and their verdi& perfefly accords with
the law and eqti. -y of the cafe. Therefore,
Let the Rule be difcbarged.

Slive

LAwxRENcz

