SUPREME COURT OF Pennfylvan;a.

199

?rade arAkill. This policy of putting children out as apprentices, 1793.
is carried into our poor laws, and ihofe which relate to orphans. ,' v
Overfeers of the poor, and the Orphans Courts, have no authority to bind out minors as fervants, even fuch as are the obje&s of public charity. They muft be bound apprentices to
fome " art, trade, occupation, or labour."
There have been infrances of children here being bound out
as fervants ; but this has not been general ; and the Courts of
Juftice have always frowned on the attempts.
I agree, that it is not neceffary to determine how far a Lather may transfer to another, the right which he has to the fervice of his children, in confideration of that other's inftruaing
him in reading, writing, and the li:e ; nor whether the Court
would interfere to take the child out of fuch perfon's cufLody.
But, I think it right to fay, that no parent, under any circumftances, can make his child a firvant, in the fenfe in which this
boy is held as fuch. Though he is intitled to the fervice of his
child, he cannot enforce it, as a mailer can that of his ferrants; he cannot commit him to goal if he runs away ; he
cannot demand the penalty of five days fervice for every day of
abfence ; and, terefore, it is impoffible that he can transfer
fuch right to another.
I am, therefore, of opinion with the reft of the Court, that
this boy is not a fervant within the meaning of the A&t of 1o7a
and confequently, he muff be difcharged.
BA-RNEs's Leffee, veffus IRWIN, et at.

HIS caufe was argued upon a cafe fQated, which includat law for
the following faits. The plaintiff was heir who died
Ted
Henderfon,
Margaret
of
eftate
real
the
of
one moiety
feized of the prmifes in queftion. Previous to her marriage
with Mathias Henderfon, articles of agreement dated the 29 th
of June, 1794, were executed between threm, and a third perfon by which _Mfatthew Henderfon, covenanted, that the real
the
eftate belonging to her, fhould be to their joint ufe during
to
power
full
have
marriage; but that Mrs. Henderfin fhould
had
They
coverture.
during
Will,
or
Deed,
difpofe of it by
o
no iffue.

On the 2 9 th. 7anuaiy 179 , during the coverture,

the
Mrs. Henderfon, made a Will in the ufual form, appointed
real
her
fell
to
power
them
gave
and
executors,
her
defendants
eftate ; the monies arifing from which were bequeathed, except
fome charitable legacies. To the plaintiff fhe left five hillings.
nrtrl
The defendants entered and fold.

20

1793.

CAss ruled and adjudged in di

The cafe was argued on the igth of Janlary, 1792, by Bank,
.Jonand Rawle for the plaintiff, and Wilcock and Sereant fot
the deferldants.
For the plaintiff. It is admitted by the defendant's counfel,
that the devife was void at law, and we contend, that it would not
be eftablifhed in equity. A defetive Will, or the defeffive execution of a power, will not be aided in a Court of Chancery,
for a meritoriotds or valuable confideration, and the heir at law,
where the equity is equal, will not be difturbed in the enjoyment
of his legal advantage. Powr. on Powerst 9o . i55 to 165.
S"
Atk. 715. Anb. 474. In this cafe the parties all flood in equal
relation and there was no meritorious claim on the fide of the devifees ; they were not children unprovided for, they had no claim
on the Tefiatrix. Max. in Eq. 67. 8. Whatever was the intention of Mrs. Hendfon (though it was argued to have been
to bar her hufband from the terms of the agreement) if that
ifitention was not executed, Chancery would not carry it inio
effe& againfR the heir. Pow. 136. x64. Com. Rep. 250.
Vern. 63. Chancery, indeed, exercifes this power only in cafe
of trufts, and never on legal eftates. 2 Vez. 193. Ambler.
467. -Fearn 89. It is true, that equity is admitted as a part
of the law of Pentn/j.vania t Dall, Rep. ; yet it mufr be applied with caution, as the full remedies of a Court of Chancery are not in our power ; 4nd the a& of Affembly, dire&ing
the mode of conveying the eftates of feme coverts, wou!d on
the defendants' principles be altogether unneceffary.
For the defendants it was contendedj that Courts of Chancery would favor the execution of fuch a power, arid WIright v.
Cadogan Ambler, 469. and Rippen v. ,Da(Vdin. ibid. 565. were
relied upon as in point, while 2 Term. Rep. 695. was alfo
read to fhew, that Lord Kenyon held the fame principles.
For the plaintiffs, it was replied, that Jf'-ight v. Caaogan,
was conformable to the principles flated for the plaintiffs, but
did not apply in the defendants' favor. That Rippi v. Dawdi,,
(or ftawdi, as it is called in Powell on contracts) was a folitary quctionable cafe. That it contradicted Peacock v. Monk.
2 Pey. 193, and Branthallv. Hall, Ambler. 467. That Ld.
Kenyoiz, referred exprefsly to Peacock v. .Monk 5 but took no
notice of Rippin v. Dawdin ; fo did Ld. Thualow, in Brown,.
Parl. Ca. x6. from whehce it was inferred, that it was not
held as law ev en in Ei.,gland.
Cur. At,19, 'uult.

In April 179;z, a further argument was reque fed by plainfiffs' counfel, and granted : But at the next Term, Septembe,
1792, they informed the Court, that they meant to leave the
canfe on the former argument.
Tiu COURT then defired the following points might be fur.
ther confidered.

SUPRxMr CoUmr OF Penilyazia.

2or

ift. How far the cafe of Rippin v. Dawdin, is fhaken by
Roddon 'v. Lloyd. 2 Bro"Wn. Ch. Ca. 544.
2d. How far the difference between a devife to children as
in Rippin v. Dawdin, and a devife to Nephews, &c. ,as in
this cafe, may operate i cha. Ca. 247. 2 B. Ch. 380.
covenant to ftand
- 3 d. Whether thefe articles can operate as a
feized to ufes. i Go. Rep. 175" Powell or Powers 210.
arq to be confidered as executory.
4 th. Whether the articles
7 Mod. 147.

-Whether the bare confent -of the hufband, anterior ta
can give the wife a power.
marriage,
the
But, in 7anuary 1793, THE CoUR.Tinformed the counfel,
that upon confideration, they had removed their own doubts ;
and did not, therefore, defire a further argument. They
then proceeded to deliver their opinions.
MKEAN, Chif Jzific:-The queftion arifing on the cafe
ftated for our opinion, is, whether a feme covert, feized of a
real eftate in fee, can, in confequ nce of a power contained in
articles, executed between the hufband and her before their
marriage (the legal eflate not having been conveyed to truftees)
give away fuch eftate by will, or any inftrument in nature of a
will, during the coverture ?
The articles of the 29 th of June, 1774, are therein called
a deed tripariite, and the name of James Malace is introduced into them as a party, along with Margaret Iruin and Matthew Hendeifjn ; and they are executed by all three ; but no
eftate is thereby conveyed to James P-MIlace,. as a truftee, or
otherwife. Margaret Henderfon, duing her marriage with
Matthew Henderfon, makes a difpofitiou by an inltrurrient, in
5 th.

nature of a'will, dated January 29th 1790,

of all her eftate

real and perfonal.
It is very clear, that a feme covert, by virtue of an agreement between her and her hufband, before marriage, may difpofe of .herpeifonaleflate by will, or teftament i becaufe -it is
to take effet during the life of the hufband ; for, if he furvived her, he would be intided to the whole, and, therefore, he alone could be affe&ed by it. 2 Vezey. 191. Peacock and,
A,'onk.
It is alfo clear,, that a married woman cannot devife her real
eqate. By the ftatute of the 34 and 35, ffen. 8 fec. 14- it is
exprefsly ena~ted, " that wills made of any manors, lands, ternements, or other hereditaments, by any woman covert, fhall
not be taken, to be good or effetual in law.".
It is further agreed, that if the legal eflate in'the lands had
been vefted by the deed, or articles, in J7ames UWallace, the appointment by .Margaret Henderfin, would be valid and good in
equity : For, then fhe would have had only an e~uitabk iwter!
C c

1793-

202

1793.

CAsas ruled' and adjudged in -tie

a confidence would have been repofed in the truftee, that.
he
fuch eftatesas fie flould dire& ; and her willwould
have amounted to a direffion, which bound Iois confcience,
and
which a Court of Chancery would enforce. 2 Vezey. 192.
6 Bro. Par. Ca. 156. Powell Contr. 67, &c.
But in this cafe, Mlargaret Irwin, or Henderfon, was the donor, aid alfo the donee of the power; and it is contended,
that
the could not execute it during her coverture, becaufe the
fee
fill remained in herfelf, and fhe was reftrained by the ftatute
of Hen. 8. from making a will; and by the maxims and rules
of
the law fhe is difabied, a having no will of her own.
The inifrument of 179 o , executed by Alargaret Henderanv
being then covert, is not ftriolly a will, but diftinCE from
it,
though in nature of a will. It takes its effe&t out of the articles or deed of 1774, which created the power to make
fuch
an inflrument, and was made in executionof fuch power.
She
takes notice in the preamble of it, that, the was a married
woman, and that, as to what the was legally intitled to difpofe
of,
her will was as therein mentioned. It is ufually called an
appointment. A feme covert can execute an appointment over
her
own eftate. Powell on Powers 34. 3 Atk. 712. The
reafon or ground of a wife's being difabled to make a will, is, from
her being under the power of the hutband, not from want.of
judgment, as in'the cafe of an infant, or idiot.
.Matthew .Uendeiyon and his wife, before their marriage, agreed that her real eftate flould remain her property, and might
be difpofed of by 'will and teftament, in writing, by her, as
fhe
thould think fit, as abfolutely as if the marriage had never
been. folemnized.. The intention of the -parties is plain,
and

~ would make

admits of no doubt. She has accordingly difpfed of it by an
inftrument, in nature of a will and teftament, in execution of the
power, and by the exprefs confent of th hutband, not to him, or
his relations, but amongit her own nearer of kin. No fraud;
force, flattery, or improper ufe of the power he had over her, as a
huband, has been exerted, nor is it ailedged. This will bar him
from any-title to her eflate,-and why flould it-not bar the heir at
law, in equity and reafon? Here was a fair and lawful agreement
between them, founded on a valuable and meritorious confidera
tion. Mrs.Henderfonwithher hulband, could during the coverture
have given away her real eftate by fine, or deed (if the had been
fecretly examined, agreeably to the art of Affembly of Pennfylvania) conformably to their agreement ; and if he had refufed to join with, her, a Cou-rt ofI Equity (if fuch a Court had
exifted here) would, on her application, have compelled him to
carry their agreement into execution.

It is a lamentable truth,

that there, is. no Court cloathed with Chancery powers, in Penn.
f'Ivania ; but Fquity is part of our law, and it has been. frec.
quently

UP MME

CoUl.T- oF Pe:7,;fylvantd.

-o3

quently determined in the Supreme Court, that the judges will,
to effe&uate the intention of the parties, confider that as exe- t

cuted, which ought to have been done. This is. alfo a rule in
the Court of Chancery in England. Why may not hdr articles
of agreement, or deed, of 1774, be confilered as a covenant,
to fland feized of her real efthte for the ufes therein fpecially
mentiodted, andalIfo to the ufe of her will, or appointment ?
Marriage, which tends to join the blood, is 9ne of the confiderations held fufficient to validate fuch a conveyance. Why
fliould fhe not have a right in Equity, of difpofing of her lands
as incident to her ownerfhip ; for, fhe is tr be taken, as to the
executibn of this power, to be a feme fole ? If the intention
of the parties cannot takq place by this-deed and appointment,
in the common way of their operation,' they may be confidered
good in fome other way: The fubftance, and not the form, ought
principally to be regarded, *Why may not this cafe be. condered, under all circuiftances, of equal operation as a deed executed by the hufband and wife, in her life time, to the ufe of
the perions named in the appointment . The Court of Chancery will fupply forms, where there is a meritorious confideration it has gone as great lengths as is defired in the prefent"
cafe; and I am glad to find the laft cited cafe determined there
to be in point, " that there is no difference between a legal and
equitable intereft." 4Imbler 565.* Rip.
pen v. Dawdin, or
.Hardin, by Ld. Ckancellor Camden, in 1769. The fpirit of
the cafe of lV'righ! v. Ld. Cadogan, el rJ. 6 Brown., ])a;.
Ga. iS6. alfoimplies this do&rine.
From all the circumftances of this cafe, taken together, I am
of opinion, that the appointment of .argaret Hender/on, paffes
this eftat¢ in Equity. and that judgment be given for the defendant.
SHIPPEN, J.,7fice. I concur in the opinion delivered by the
CHIEF JUSTICE. I confefs,. however, that Ilhad confiderable

doubts when the cafe was argued ; but, Powell's new edition
of P7od's Conveydnce, 467. 8, has removed them. PowdV,
the editor, Rates the dodtrine to bq now fettled in England, according to the cafe of Rippen v. Iawdin:. If fo fettled there,
it certainly flhould be fo fettled here, where the alienation of
real eftate is much more favored..
- YEATES,. Jz/jtice. If we fat merely as a Ccurt of-Law, I.
ifhould be clearly in favor of the plaintiff. Buti the Chancery
maxim, to confider what ought to be done, as a~tually.done,
applies ftrongly to our judicial fituation, having no Court of
Equity to enforce the performance of contraa-,.
As to the right of a feme covert; under articles of agrement
to devife, Ld. Kenyan, fays, "vhat was once doubted is no longer fo." The principles of Rippen v.Hawdin, are infome deC cz
gree.

x793.

'204

1.793.

CASES

riled and adjudged in the

gree impugned by the cafe of Hodtfdon v. Llo),d: But, R.ppen
V. Hawdin, now appears to be fettled, fince Powell, who, in his
treatife on contraa,& adds a quere to his account of the cafe,
now ftates it as eftablified. Since the ftatute of 27 Hen. 8. c.
xo, I cannot fee that folid diftin&ion betweeri a truft, and a
legal eftate, which would warrant us to draw a line on the pre.
fentoccafion.

2 B.

C. 233. 327.

7igfice. 'The legal eftate is vefted in the plaintiff. The defendants fet up an equitable defence, relying on
the articles, the confideration of thofe articles, and the devfe in
purfuance of them. As a will, the inftrument is clearly void ,
but the queftion is not as to theformality of an appointment, but ti
creation ofapowver.
The articles do not create a truft, nor exprefsly raife a pow.
cr ; but, articles executory may, I think, create a power over
real eftate.
As to Equity, the Court has only'a bonowed jurifdi&ion,
from the want of a' Court of Chancery ; yet'I think the Confitution warrants our afluming it, from the expreflions it employs. What is equitable, muff, therefore, be adopted here,;
but it muft be clearly fettled to be fo.
It has been urged, that the devifees are no nearer to the difpofing party, than the plaintiff; the devifee is neither wife,
child, nor creditor ; and, that Chancery will not interfere, except where confcience ought to oblige the party to give up a
legal advantage. Upon this point lFright. v. Cadogan, is diftinguifhed from Bramhall v. Hall, and in Compton -. "CollinJon, the diftindion is adverted to : But, as I have already obferved, the queftion is, as to the creation of the power ; and
that there was a fufficient confiderailon for creating it, in this
cafe, cannot be doubted ; for marriage has always been decreed
to be fuflicient.
Then we are led to alk, are thefe articles executory ? Did
the hufband engage to do any thing to carry them into effe& ?
In Wright v. Cadogan, the future hufband ,covenanted to execute fuch deed as counfel fhould advife. It is not clearly ftated
in Rippin v. Hawdin, whether the hufband was, or was not, to
do any a&. In the cafe before us, he undertakes to do nothing;
he only affents to his wife's making a will. The ultimate queftion thereupon is, does this affent, by removing that powerwhiqh
marriage legally veffs in him, over his wife's aas, confer upon
lier the power which by the articles fhe meant to referve ? And
--.
s the covenant is anterior, and in confideration of the marriage,.
I am of opinion that it does: and concur with my biethren in
giving
judgment for tl jedefendants.
BRADFORD,

DUNCAN

