CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1795CAIGNET

wrfus PETTIT et. at;

T

HIS was a Scire Facias againif the defendants, as garnGilbaud,
& Co. French citizens, refiding
in the fhees
Weft of
Indies. A Rouge
rule was
obtained by the dcfendants to

ihew caufe why the proceedings Thould not be quafled, upon
the ground, that the plaintiff was alfo a French citizen, and
that, therefore,
rifdifcon,
by the
the .uth
Court article
was precluded
of the from
Confular
Convention,
exercifing
any juwhich provides, that "all differences and ouits between the citizens of .rance, in the United States, or between the citizens
of the United States, within the dominions of France, &c. hall
be determined by the refpe
Confuls
ofte
Vice-Confuls,
and
either by a reference to arbitrators, or by a fummary judgment
and without cofts. No officer of the country, civil or military,
fhall interfere therein, or take any part whatever in the matter:
and the appeals from the faid Confular fentences fhall be carried
before the tribunals of France, or of the United States, to whom
it may appertain to take' cognizance thereof."
The fas, refpe61ing the plaintiff's cirizenihip, were briefly
thefe:-He was a native of France, and refided in the Ifland of
St. Domingo, at the period of the French revolution. He had after wards accepied an office from Louis XV. under the conftitution eftablifhing a limired' monirchy ; but previoufly to the
abolition of monarchy, and the introdu6ion of the Republican
fyftem (the ioth of Sept. 1792) he came to America, took an

oath of allegiance to the State of Pennfylvania, under the aa of
Afarch 1789 (2 vol. Dall. Edit.p.67 6) which a&a, however, was

at that .time obfolete,M and purchafed a tra& of land, on which
he refided. He had not been naturalized conformably to the
af of Congrefs . but he had frequently been' heard to exprefs
his abhorrence of the exifting conftitution of France; he had
never done anj a' fhewing his affent to it; and he had declared an intention to'fettle, permanently, in Ameriea.
The plaintiff's couniel (Lewis &Le.vy) made two points-i ft.
That the i2thart. of theConfularCon ention applies only to cafes
where both parties, being French citizens, are a6ually refident
within the United States, and, therefore, does not embrace the cafe
of a -foreign attachment.-zd. That the plaintiff never was a
citizen of the French Republic ; and in fupport of the latter pofition they cited the following authorities : Vatt. B. I. ch. 13.
f16. 167. 2 Vent. 3623. 3 "Bl.Con. 298. atl. B. 3. ch. 18.
f. 293.295. Ibid.B. i. ch..Ig.f . 220. 213. 2 Tfeinee. -220. Alt. of
.onfed.f 4. Jolnfc.-'s Di . "Citizen."a Dtes . Rep. 5 9.
"See Ca&Vet v.-Co/k: ind -Unte.Stes v. Vilatto, post;

SUPREMn ComtT or PenttryIvania.

'35

For the defendants, it was urged, byDallas & Du Ponceau, on
the Iafipoint, that the Confular Convention extended to all dierences andfuits between French citizdns ; that a foreign attachment
was, unqueftiorably, a fuit; and that the diffierence, or fuit, exiftor,
to the wordsrefieitherbe'adually
ing in the UnitedStates, it wa'.ot material,fhould
fpirit of the article, that bot4 the pities
dent within the United States. On the 2dpoint, it was anfwered,"
that the plaintiff ncceffarily remained a French citizen, 'till he rc-

nounced his allegiance, or had done fome at incompatible with
it ;-that he was not a citizen of the UnitedSlates; and unlefs he
was a citizen of France, he exhibited the extraordinary fpedacleof a human being who had no country!
BY- ThE CouRT. .Many important topics have been difcuffed,
in the courfe of this argument; but we do not think it neceflary
to decide on more than one of them. The fole queftion iswere both the plaintiff and the original defendants citizens of the
French Republic, at the time of infituting this fuit ? We are
clearly of opinion, from the fa&s diflofed in the affidavits
which have been read, that the plaintiff was not then, nor is he
now, a citizen of France. It is true, that he has not acquired

the rights of citizenfhip here ; nor, as it appears, in any other
countryt but, hatever may be the inconvenience of that fituation, he had an undoubted right to difient from the revolution
and, as a member of the minority, tb refufe allegiance to the
new government, and withdraw from the territory of Francq.
Every thing that could be faid or done to manifeft fuch a deter-.
znmation, has been faid and done by the plaintiff; except the
ad of becoming the fubjcd, or citizen, of another country.
.Let the rnle be difcharged.*
Gg

z

HADDENS

On the fubje&t of the Confular Jurifdi&ion, I have been favorefd

wiih a note of the following decifion, taken from the Records of the
Circuit Court for the Diftrift of -Afasachusetta, in.-Midy Term 1792.'
VILLENEUVE versus BABIOtRI..

T was agreed by the parties to fubihit this quefton io the Court-,
to ,it :-Wbethtr the Convention gaye to the Frencb Cdnful
cognizance of all differences and fuits between Frenchmen; or confined,
the fame to the defcription of cafes therein enumerated, or other cafes.
not arifing from. tranfaffions in the Mizted States P Andfurther,
that it the Court fbould be of opinion, that tli Confufar Jurifdiaion
extends geneially to all differences and fuits between Erenrcmen, that
then the plaintiff fhall, difcontioue the prefent aition, without cofis.
Tim COU4T, after hearing .the counfel, of both ides, on the .queftiox
propored, weiei-f opifiioni tbat ihe Confular JuArfdiction d6es-not extend generftly *toall differences and fuits between Frenchmen.
The plaintiffs thereupon, prayed leave to difcontinue his faid action.
'without coftsl. whisk being granted; he did difcontinue accordingly.

795.

