CASES ruled and adjudged in. the

March Term, 1797.

VASSE

T

verfus

BALL.

HIS was an acion on two Policies of Infurance for

28,ooodollars, upon the brig Salmon, and her cargo

(both the property of the plaintiff, an Almerican citizen) from

Port-au-Paixto Phi!adelphia, in *brhich thefe claufes were infer-

ted : "(Itis declared that this affurance is made only againift capture of the Brity, or any of the fubje&s of Great-Britain."

cc The brig is warranted to be an American bottom; and

the cargo of the faid brig to be Zmericanproperty."
On the trial, the following appeared to be the material fats:
The brig, having carried a cargo of flour from Philadelphiato
Port-au-Paix, under a contraa with Mr. Fauchet, the French
Mdinifter, was captured and taken into Bermuda, for adjudication, by a Briyj/ priviteer, on her return to Philadelphia. The
captain of the brig wrote to the plaintiff,' his owner, ftating the
capture, and declaring the f'rongeft apprehenfion, that a condemnation'would enfue, as the captors had got poffeffion of the
receipt for the flour delivered upon the contra& with Mr. Fauchet, and he had been compelled at Port-auFaix to take on
board a French Officer and a few foldiers (who were all invalids)
with their baggage and fome articles of houfehold furniture, in
order to bring them for their health to A4merica. The plaintiff
communicated the capture to the defendant, and, in explicit
terms, repxefented the cale to be a defperate one; but the defendant, with confidence, declared, that, as a new Governor
had becn recently fent out to Bermuda, there would be a change
inthe adminiftration of jufiice ; fo that if the property was
ionafide, American, it would certainly .eacquitted; and, in
that confidence, be agreed to infure the veffel and cargo for a
premium of ten per cent. At the time of making this agreement, the captain's letter was not fhewn to the defendant ; but
the evideice railed a ftrong prefumption that it was produced
and read to him at a fubfcqucnt meeting, before the policiks
were underwrote. TIhe brig and cargo being libelled in the
Vice-Admirailty Court of Bermuda, the libel fet forth the following lkcgations as caufes of condemnation :-Lft. That the
;efil and cargo were French property. zd. That the veffel was
an

SUPREME CORT OF Pentnf/vanta.

271

an Atherican tranfport in the French fervice, employed to car- x797.
ry flour and foldiers to and from French ports. -3 d. That the i,-;.
veffel had been employed in carrying difpatches for the French
Government. 4 th. That the veftel had been employed in trading with the enemies of Great-Britain,fupplying them with the
means of fuftenance and of war. And, 5 th. That the port
from which the vefll came was in a ftate of blockade.
The Judge of the ViceAdmiralty pronounced a general decree of condemnation, upon both vtffel and cargo, without
fpecifying any particular caufe of forfeiture.
Under thefe circumftances, Ingeifoll and Du -Ponceau,for the
plaintiff, contended that they were entitled to fhew, that the
brig and cargo, were bdna fide American property-; that, if fo,
the warranty had been complied with ; and that no other ground
alledged in the libel was ajuit caufe of capture and condemnation to difcharge the underwriter. It is true, that the ancient
cafes fay, generally, thtt foreign judgments are conclufive, without diftinguifhing between the judgments of Courts of Admiralty, and of other Courts; but modern adjudications have
more accurately fettled, that a foreign judgment fhall be decmed prima fhcie evidence, but, like all other evidence, it is liable
to examination. Doug. 6. 4 T. Rep. 493. Bull. N P. 2452 ShOw. 232. (Leach's Edit. in not.)* The fentence may
juftly be.conclufive between thofe who are parties to it, and
muft ex neceF/tate, be conclufive upon the fubjecft to which it
immediately applies: but it ought not to be binding on third
perfons with collateral interefts ; nor upon obje~ts which it never contemplated. There has been a great flu~tuation in the
Englijh decifions upon points of commercial law. The infurance of enemy's property has, at one time, been held lawful;
but Lord Alan feld's decifions on that point, have been recentlv
over-ruled. Parke239 (Iql Edit.) And it is well known, tha
the Enlglih courts of Vice-Admiralty do not decide according
to the Law of Nations, but according to the inftxuctionm of the
Crown. But there is not, in fat, any judicial determination of
the Engly/h Courts, antecedent to the American revolution,
which declares, that the fentence of a Court of Admiralty cannot be examined and contrdverted between perfons who were
not parties to, it. The cafe of Birnardi*- 1otteux, Doug. 554occurred fince the revolution
it has, therefore, no obligatory
influence i and it carries the do6trine, refpeaing the conclufive
charaacr
SM'KzA,
Cbief gustwce. The idea that a fentence of a Court of
Admiralty is conclufive, arifes from thts confideration, that the Court
always proceeds in term. The decree naturally and neceffarily binds
the fubje& of the proceeding, a fhip, or cargo-; and any perfan pusobafing under the decree will) of ccurfe, be fecur&.

272

1797.

CAsEs

ruled and adjudged in the

chara&er of a fentence in a foreign Court of Admiralty, to art

~ extent fo extravagant, that &merican tribunals fhould be well

convinced of the reafon and juftice of the pofition on which it
turns, before tkey voluntarily acquiefce in the decifion. Befides,
this is not a queftion of Engli/h municipal law, in which the
judgment of an Englij/J Court muft be refpeaed as evidence of
the law: but it is a queftion arifing on the Law of Nations;
and if there is a diverfity of opinion in the Courts of different
nations, every nation is at.liberty to examine the principle.
Thus, then, it has been determined in France, that the fentence
of a Court of Admiralty is not conclufive in a controverfy between the underwriters and the affured. Emerigon (a writer
celebrated even in ferflniqfler-Hall) fays: "1 e11 done certain,
que les al/ireurs r~pondent de la confifcatin injitye prononcee par I
Tribunal du lieu otle navirepris a t conduit. Lesjugemens rendtts par les Tribunaux 9trangers, nefont en France d aucun poids
eontre les Francois, et qu'ilfaut que la caufe yfoit de i:suveau deeide. "D'oze ilfdr, que lejugement de confifcation prononcF par un
Tribunal ennemi, n'eJ7 ni une preuve que le veritable pour- compte
'cach , ni un titre que les afureurs puig/tnt alliguerpourfe
anit
d1 enfer de payer laperte. Telle eft notrejur/jprudence." i Emer.

45 7. 8.* GreatBritain, as an underwriting nation, has an obvious intereft in maintaining a contrary do&rine; but, as the policy does not apply to the fituation of Aonerica, the praaice"
ought not to be adopted.
Even, however, if the fentence of a Court of Admiralty were
to be confidered as conclufive as the f.r'ongeft of the Englit
cafes can juftify, the prefent caufe would not be affe6ted ; for,it can only be conclufive upon what it appears to have decided;and it is.impoffible from the prefent decree to afcertain the
ground of condemnation. In that refpe&, this caufe is analogous to the cafe of Bernardi-,g; Motteux. Doug. 555 ; the ge-

neral warranty being there as forcible, as the additional claufe
in the policies now controverted. Under every warranty, then,.
the-only queftion is, what the parties meant? Parke Inf 4T0.
Here, they plainly
392 - 3. 4."5. 492. 1b. 36: (lift Edit.)
meant, that, if the property affured was American, the underwriters flould be bound to pay. But, it is anfwered, the libel
alledged
t It is certain, that the nirderwriters mult be refponfible, in.the cafe

of an unjuft confiscation, pro~nounced by the tribunal of the place, to
which tie captured vefi1 has been condu&ed. ' Judgments rendered
bv foreign tribunu; are of ro weight in France, againft Frenchmen ;
and the caufe rnuil thei e be decided de novo. Hence, it folows, that
the fentence of confiscation pronounced by the tri'Lunal of an enemy,
is neither a proof that the real owner has been concealra ; nor a
title wbich the underwritefa ean alledge, to, a oid paying the tfi
Sch is our law."

SqrFRFM" dOUT o1 Penfjy Annajd.

2'71

17.
alledgtd the property to be French, the condemnation. is genehowobferved,
be
muft
It
conclutive.
is
decree
the
and
ral,
ever, that the libel alledges mort i and, that the allegations are
in direft contradiction to each other ;-for, if the veffel and car-,
go were French property, they could not, likewife be, as all the
other allegations import, Amiricen property; aid when th
plaintiff can fhew, that it was impoffible the decree flould be
on the ground of French property, it muft be prefumed to have
proceeded on the other grounds Rated in the libel. As to thofe
other grounds, it is enough curfoilly to obfcrve, that the de-.
fendant has in vain endeavoied to prove, that the vetfll was employed in a trade with the French iflands, not permitted beford
the war; that the tranfportation of a few, unarmcd invalids,
cannot be denbminated contraband; nor will their pcrfonal baggage and furniture come within the defeription of the, cargo ParkeIn..Bunb. 232. tra. 943. i Dail.Btp. 197' and that the
reft of th8 allegations are not caufcs of condemnation upon an,
principle of the Law of Nations.
The defence was fupportcd by Lewis, E. Tilghman & Rawle,
on three grounds : ift. Thatthere was a concea!mnt from thd
underwriter of the fa¢t-s, known to the aflired, that "flouir had
been exported in the veffel for the French miniffer, and that
there were French foldiers and their property on board at the
time of the capture. 2d. That the -warranty had not been literally fulfilled, as a part of the property on board vas .Frciich;
and furniture muft be confidered as part of the cargo; and it is
immaterial, whether the lofs is owing to breach of the'war-,
ranty,or not,if the warrinty has not been ftri&ly complied 4'ith4
even in a trifling circumftance; afortioriin a circumftance of fuch
importance. Parke Inf 3"8. 1 T.Rep. 3 4 5. 3 T.Rep. 360. Cowp,
607. 3 d. That the fentenee of the Court of Vice-Admiralty' is
conclufive. ,Whatever was meant to be decided, fhal~be foreve-'"
at reft, ParkeInf 354- Doug. 544. And, in a great variety of'
cafes, it is held, that when there is a warranty of neutral property, and the condemnation is general, the -decree fhall bd
conclufive; which is, like*ife, the law, when the fentence is
given on the very point of the warranty. 2 Stra. 743. Skin. 59,
3 -Show. 232. T.Ray. 473. Carth. 34. Salk. 32,.
M'K,AN, Chief juflice. The fame difficulty, -that occtrrcd
in the cafe of Betnardi ,Afotteux, Doug. 55S, certainly occurs
in the prefert cafe :-how is the ground of condemnation to be
aftertained ? The libef afferts in one place, that the proper:y
The firongefl cafe on tlie quef'ion o mca'rgo,#
*SnfPET, %u s[e'.
isthat in Bunb.232. I remember that before the revolution, tlhera
-was a.fetzfire of PalatineyveflTl with palfengers, on account of tha
bagg-4ge; but I acqu itted her oA taauthority c.t-ht caf4,.

-74

CAsES ruled -and adjudged in the

7797. is Freni.h; in another place, that it is Atmerican; and
titatements, that the "veffel was employed in affitfing,theorfeveral
fupplying, the French, alfo imply that it belonged to a neutral owner.
The decree, however, is general : but can we impute to it,
the
abfurdity of meaning.to decide, that the veffel and cargo
were;
at the fame time. neutral and enemy property.
SHIPPN, 7Vfee. If the libel had-confined itfeif to alledge,
that the property was French, and the decree had been general;
or, if.the decree had fpccifically feleled and ftated that allegation, as the ground of condemnation, I fhould have been ftrcngly inclined to think, tht we were bound by the decifion.
the 6bje& of the prefent enquiry is, to afcertain for what. But
caufe
the vefiel and cargo have been confifcated?
The. counfel for the defendant, perceiving the biafs of
the
Court fo much againft ihem, declined prefling any further
argument in fupport of the binding nature of the decree of the
condemnation ;"and left their cafe to the Jury, fimply upon
plaintiff's alledged concealment of the information containedthe
in
the captain's letter, communicating, the capture of the
veffel.
The oppofite counfel having, thereupon, proved that the
plaintiff was an American citizen., and fole owner of the veffel
and
cargo, the following chafge ivas delivered by the Chief Y7tyice,
after a general recapitulation of the fa6ts:
IM'KEAN, Chief uflice. The firft ground of defence
tempted to be taken on this occafron, is; that the veffel was atgaged in a trade with'the French iflands, which, as it'was enpermitted by the French government previoufly to the not
war,
Great Britain, it is faid, had a right to deem unlawful, 'and
conftrue into a violation of our neutrality. The fa& has to
been eftablifhed : But, if it had been eftablifhed, I could not not
accede to the conclufion, which the defendant's rounfel contemplated. I cannot conceive, upon what principle, our accepting
a benefit is to be converted into the perpetration of a wrong.
What injury can be done to any belligerent power, by our
ing the exports of America (not of a contraband natuie) to fenda new
market ? Where is the caufe of offence ? In what confifts
infra&.ion of neutrality ? 'We are not a&lvated by motiyes the
of
partiality and favoritifm ; for, we are willing, of our own accord,
to purfue the fame courfe with Great Britair as well as France;
and we find that, in fa&, the colonial governments of
Britain often invite us, during a war, to an intercourfe in Great
trade,
which is, at other times, abfolutely ointerdiCed. We cannot
prevent another 'nation from offering a bounty to our comimerce,
by opening a free port, or by relinquifling its duties; and
whena
wd merely accept thefe advantages, on a pinciple of feIf-intereft,
why fha.l we be charged with a breach of our neutrality ?
No
The rule, on the point of neutrality, is: juft and leaf
: It is
fimply

SUPREME COURT OF Penlifykania.

275

limply this :-If two nations are at war, a neutral,power fliall r797.
not do any a&, in favor of the commercial, or military, opera- 'YJ
tions of one of them; or, inother words, it fhall not, by'treaty,
afford a fuccour, or grant a privilege, which was not ftipulated
for, previoufly to the commencement of hoffilities.
The fecond ground of defence, is founded on the capture
andi condemnation of the veffel at Bermuda. It is urged, that
the libel flates the property to be French; and that the decree
being general, affirms that allegation. But the libel confifts of
five charges; and if the charge of French property is affirmed,
the other four, which fland precifely on the fame footing, mufl:
be arbitrarily excluded; fince, under different modifications, they
alledge the property tobe American. It is impra6licable, therefore, to fix the precife caufe of condemnation by an.infpe&ion
of the record itfelf; but, we are clearly of opinion, that, under
fuch circumftances, evidence may be received to eftablifh the
.American ownerlhip, in conformity to the warranty. As, then,
the proof leaves no doubt on the queftion of ownerfhip, we
cannot preftume that the Judge of a foreign Court has perjured
himfelf, by declaring that roperty to be French, which we know
to be American ; and, of courfe, we muft afflume the pofition,
that his decree proceeded upon the other allegations of the libel.
Thofe other allegations do not furnifh any caufe for cancelling
the policies in the.prefent cafe, either in relation to the exprefs
warranty, or to the matter charged. An A4merican citizen may
lawfully, at any time, carry flour, and other articles of jrovifion,
or difpatches, for a French minifter, from an A4merican, to a
French, port.
The third ground of defence ftates, that there was a concealment of fome material fa&s, in regard to the rifque, which were
known to the plaintiff at the time of the defendant's'undertaking
the infurince ;--fuch as the outward tranfportation of a cargo
of flour for Mr. Faucket, and the homeward accommodation of

French foldiers, with their baggage. If this flatement is correct
in point of evidence, the law arifing from it is certainly in favor
of the defendant. But tJae weight of the teftimony does not
feem to fupport it. There can be no imputation of concealment,
where each patty had an equal opportunity of acquiring a knowledge of th fa&t; and there is firong reafon to believe, if not
dire& evidence'to fhew, that the plaintiff gave the defendant
that opportunity, by placing in his hand the captain's letter,
reciting all the circumftances., If the defendant then refufed,
or negleaed, to read the letter, it cannot now be affigned as a
caufe for vitiating the policies,. Befides, if all the circumftances had been perfe&ly underftDood, there was nothivg which
any lawyer would have pronounced to be illicit in the trade.
The cargo of flour was "at the rifque of the plaintiff; till it was

WM 2actually

276$

CAsEs ruled and adjudgcd in the

'797. a&ually delivered ; and Ihave never heard of any law, in any
vy... civilized nation, that deemed it contraband, or unlawful, to carry
a few, unarmed, invalid foldiers, to a neutral country, in purfuit
of health and refiefliment.
A fourth ground of defence has beeh taken, upon thit confi-"
deration, that the houfehold furniture of the paffengers came
-within the defeription of the cargo of the veffel; and, therefore,
the warranty had not been firitly performed. I confefs, that
I agree in the general idea, that houfeliold furniture cannot be
regarded as baggage, and muft conftitute a part of the cargo;
but ftill, to admit this exception, under the peculiar circumftances of the fhipment, would be too indulgent to a harfh and captious fpirit of litigation; nor, throughout the biftory of Admiralty proceedings, can there be traced a fingle inftance of cbndem1atibn, for fuch a caufe.
Jpon the whole; it is our opinion, that the plaintiff is entiled
to recover the amount of both Policies.
Verdi'c for the Plaintiff.*
YOUNG -verfus W fLINa, et. a.

T1794,

fTIS was an a&ion of Trover, infituted in Septemberterm,
to' recover the value, of certain public certificates,
wvhich the plaintiff claimed as his property. It appeared on the
trial, however, that he had fold the certificates to the defendants
in November 1784, that his prefent claim was founded on a
fuppofed difaffirmance of the fale (the circumfmances of which
it is unneceffary to ftate) when the certificates were difcovered
to be counterfeit in the month of Deembei following; and that
the a&ion was inftituted in his own name, though he had been
difeharged under the laws for the-relief of infolvent debtors, in
ptember 1785, after making a general affignment of his pro.
Vertyi for the benefit of his creditors. On the'opening of the
4efence, THE Couf.T thought the merits were in favor of the
defendantsi
At the clo'e oftl4 charge, 'fl!ghrman''laimned leave to tender a
'bill of exceptions, becaufe the Court did not dire& the Jury, in point
of law, to cenfider the decree as conchuive.
CouRir :.-We do not fa y what would have been our opitllma
Mion, if the decree had exprefsly condenned the property as Frencb:
but, in its prefentfRate, we do not think it conclulive, to pre,,ent ev i
tence that the cargo was a~tiallv neutral.
The defendant afterwards mov-ed for a new trial, but it was rerufed.
le tbeit breugt a writ bf error; but, on the I 3 th of _Wiy .i797, thq
tea inslhagwe of the vcrdit,.wAs arfrmed,
.,jud Fwezt

