CAsEs ruled.and adjudged in the
1795.

September Term, 1795"

PENN'S

Lefflee verfUS

HARTMAN.

*

EJECTMENT brought by the late proprietaries for a traa
of land in the Conty of Northampton.. On the trial it
l
was material for the leffors of the plain'tiff to fhew, that a furvey had been duly made and returned into the Land-Office before the 4 th of July 1796, in order to ¢ftablifh their title to
the premifes, under the refervat*ion contained in the 8th fe&tion
of the a& of Affembly, vefting their eftates in the Commonwealth. i Vol. Dall. Edit. p. 822. They, accordingly, offered to give in evidence a paper, which was certified by. .
lukins, the Surveyor General, to be a true copy of the origirial- in his office, purporting to be the return of a Survey of
12,S48 acres (including the land in queftion) fituate in the
forks of the river Del'z.are, and containing a draught made in
purfuance of a warrant, dated the i 4 th of November 1741 :
But the paper itfelf was not figned by any perfon, nor did it
Qate by whom, or when, the draught was made, a blank being
left for the day and year.
'The defendants counfel obje&ed to the evidence. The paper
is not authenticated by any fignature; there is no proof that
it is written in the hand-writing of any public officer ; nor how
long it has been depofited in the Land-Office, and it has not
gone with the poffeffion of the land, which has been uniformly in the defendant. If, indeed, it cannot be confidered as an
offcial document, but as aprivate paper, however ancient it may
be, the original muft be produced; for, a copy is not the belt
-evidence the nature of the- cafe admits. Every paper found in
- a public office is not evidence : It muff be a paper, which it was
the duty of the officer to receive and record.
-The counfel for the leffors of the plaintiff admitted, that
the paper was in fome refpels defe&ive ; but contended that
there was no fixed rule as to the admiffion of evidence of this
kina. In the cafe of private papers, it is true, that however
ancient, they will not be admitted, if they are not regularly executed,
Tried at Easton, N'si Prius, the 25 th of june '795, before
M'KEA, _Cbief 7utice,: nd SXrTa usticC.

SuPEim

COURT Or PewiryIvania.

231

eeuted, unlefs poffeffion has gone along with them ; but in the 1795.
cafe of ojice papers, it has been the invariable pra~tice, to give ''v%,
all papers found in a public office, in evidence, without regard
to the formalities of execution. The only queftion, therefore,
is whether the paper, now offered, was found, under fuch circumifances of authenticity as to render it proper evidence ? It
is found in the cuftody of a public officer ; and it can be proved, that it was in the Surveyor Generalrs office, as early as the
year 1763.
BY THE COURT :-It is plain that the paper offered, is not
the beft evidence of which the nature of the cafe admits ; for,
if the original was produced, it might be proved to be in the
hand-writing of a proper officer; or.the contrary might be made
to appear. We cannot, indeed, confider it as a regular office
paper. The furvey is not returned into the Secretary's office,
as the exprefs words of the warrant enjoins ; nor does it, in
any way, appear, that it was made by an authorifed perfon.
The evidence muft, therefore, be rejeted.
W
Wilcocks, E. Tilghman, Sitgreaves, for the plaintiff: Bradfird, Ingerfoll, Lewis and Thomas for the defendant.*
RAPELJE Verfus EMERY.

A

VERDICT having been taken for the plaintiff in this

caufe, fubje& to the opinion of the Court, the queftion
(arifing upon the fame fats, fet forth in the decifion in the
Common Pleasant. 5 1.) was argued in 4pril Term laft,. on a
motion for a new trial, and the Judges now delivered their opinionferiatim to the following effe&.
M'KEAN, Chief 7ujfice,---Upon every view of the fubjet,
I am of opinion, that a new trial ought to be granted. The
proceedings of the Court of St.' ujiatius we muft prefume to
be conformable to the law of the place ; the decifion appears to
be ftri6lyjuft ; and, independent of the merits, we are bourid by
it, as the decifion of a competent tribunal.
SHiPPEN, uflice. Having delivered my fentiments at large,
in this aCtion, from another Bench, I mean now only to take
notice of two new. cafes, cited at the laft argument by the plaintiff's counfel, to fhew that a6ions for monoy had afid received,
had been brought and fupported againft plaintiffs, who had recovered upon foreign attachments, to oblige them to refund to
third perfons, the money fo recovered. Thefe are the cafes of
IHunter
on the fame
' This cafe, and many other Ejectments depending
title) were aftrwards fetacd by a -iowprmiWe b wc¢n the parties.

