370

CAsts ruled and adjudged in the

1797.

April Term, 1797.

Prefent-IRDELL and PETERS, Jujices.
The UNITED STATEt verfus VILLATO.

had been committed by the Diftri& Judge,
VT HE
on adefendant
charge of
High Treafon againft the United, States,
and on the return to a Habeas Corpus, iffued under the at of
.Pennfylvania(2 Vol. Dall Edit.p. ) it appeared, that he had
entered on board of a Frenchprivateer " in parts out of the terTitory of the United tate., and that, having fo entered, he aided
in capturing an -4mericanveffiel."
But it wqs obje&ed, by Dallas and Du Ponceau, for the pri- "
Loner, that he was not liable to a charge of High Treafon ;-' becaufe he was by birth a Spaniard, 'and had never become a naturalized citizen of the United States. They contended, therefore, that he ought to be .difcharged from the profecution . independent of any inquiry, whether the offence could be deemed
High Treafon, even in a citizen.
The fats were thefe.:-FrancisVillato was born within the
dominions of the King of Spain; he came from New Orleans
to Philadelphiain the beginning of the year 1793, and, on the
1ith of May followipg, he took and fubfcribed, before the
Mayor of the Cty, the oath fpecified in the third fedion' of the
ad of Affembly, paffed on the 13 th of March 1789. 2 Vol. Dall.
Edit. p. 676. He afterwards went to the W-eft Idies, entered
on board a French pivateer, and aded as prize-maiter of the
American brig gohn of New-York, which the privateer had taken,
while he was on board, and procured to be libelled and condemned at Cape Frangois.
Under thefe circumftances, the argument entirely turned upon"
the queftion; whether the prifoner had become a citizen of the
United States, in confequence of the oath taken and fubfcribed
by him, on the tith of M11ay 1793.
For the affrmative of the propofition, Lee, the Attorney General of the United States, and Aorgan, contended, that the a6t
of Pennfylvania was in force in the year 1793; that it was not
affEded by the eftabiifhment of the new State Conftitution, nor
repealed by any fubfequent law i that the power of naturalization

CIRCUIT CouRT, Pennfylvana Dzftri&.

371

tion granted to the Federal government was concurrent with, 1797.
and not exclufive of, the State jurifdieion upon the fubje& ;.
that the firff naturalization aL of Congrefs paffed in the year
1790, furnifhed a new rule, but contained no repealing, or negative, words, to impair the operation of the pre-exifting State
laws ; and that although at this time there was no other than
the Federal rule for naturalizing a foreigner, yet this was the
dire& effe& of pofitive negative words, in the act of Congrefs
paffed in the year 1795. 3 Vol Svftl's Edit. p. 163. Co/let v.
Collet. -Ant.p. 295.
Dallas, in reply. It is conceded, that if the prifoner is not
a naturalized citizen of the United States, he muft be difcharged.
It is uhneceffary. to enquire, whether the Federal power of naturalization is concurrent, or exclufive ; fince, it will be fufficiently flhewn, that even if the power is concurrent, the State
had ceafed to exercife it before the year 1793 ; and, confequently, the prifoner could not have become a citizen of the
United States under any law of Pennfylvania. Before Congrefs
had exercifed the power of naturalization given by the Federal
Conftitution, the then exiftirrg State conftitution lid declared,
that "every foreigner of good charadter, who comes' to fettle
in this State, having firft-taken an oath or affirmation of allegiance to the fame, may purchafe, of by other juft means acquire, hold, and transfer, land, or other real eftate; and, after
one year's refidence, (hall be deemed a free denizen thereof, and
entitled to all the'rights of a. natural: born fubjet. of this State,
except that he fhall not be capable of being ele&ed'a Reprefentative until after two years refidence." i VolDall.Edit.p.
6o. in Appendix. While the teft laws were in force, no particular form of qualification was prefcribed for the purpofe of natu-.
ralization, different from the oath, or 'ffirmation, of allegiance
and abjuration, exa~ted from every inhabitant of the State But when the teft laws were repealed, and before Congrefs had
legiflated upon die rubjeSt, a fpecial provifion became neceffary';
and the provifo in the aft of the year 1789 (2 Vol. Dall.Edit.
p. 677.) was exprefsly, introduced to prdfefve and effe~tuate
the 4 2dfeion of the Conftitution, with which it is in language
and meaning infeparably conne&ed. The next change in the
bufinefs of natuiralization was the a&t of Congrefs, paffed in the
year 179 o . This a&, it is true, does not contain -a r'epeal of
the State law, nor any negation of a State power to naturalize;
but the arguments ab inconvenienti are ftrong againft a concurirent authority ; and, if not on the queftion of power, at leak
bn the principle of expediency, the State Convention, who afterwards formed our exifting Conftitution, have evidently avoided a collifion of jurifdi6tion, by omitting to prefcribe any State
mQde of naturalization, and leaving the fubje~t, implicitiy, t te
Aa

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the
1797. the rules which Congrefs had previoufly prefcribed.
%

A citizen

of the United States, adopted under the a& of Congrefs, is a

citizen of each and every State ; and the convention of Pen;fylvania could conceive no means of eftablifhiing uniformity (the
very obje& contemplated by the .Federal Conflitution) if each
State, in-a ditrin& and different mode, might, likewife, convert the chara6ter of an alien, into that of a citizen of the tJnited States. The State Conftitution is, therefore, filent ; and it
only remains to be fhewn, that the law pafled in the year 1789,
was virtually repealed by the ratification of that Contitution ;
which provides, indeed, that all the pre-exifting laws, not inconfiftent with itfelf, fhall continue in force. Schedulefea. x.
But the a6l of 1789 was not only entirely dependent on the exiftence of the old Confitution, which was abrogated ; but is in
many effential points inconfiftent with the new Conftitution.
Thus, it is to be remarked, that the part of the act of Aflembly
on which the controverfy turns, is not a fubftantive and original
feaion, but a mere declaratory provifo, that the Legiflature
did not i -tend to do, what it was oiat of their power to have
done, that is, to alter the 42dfekOin of the Conflitution by a
mere repeal of the teft laws. The provifo proceeds in the following words: "every fuch foreigner as in thefaidfeion mentioned, who flall come to fettle in this State, ihall, ater one
year's reidence therein, be entitled to the full enjoyment of the
rights andprivileges therein fpecfed," upon taking and fubfcribing

the oath, or affirmation, ic.
When the whole Contlitution.
was deftroyed, none of its parts could furvive; and when, therefore, the 42fiion was'annulled, the defcription of foreigners
which it contained, and the rights and privileges which it fpecified, could no longer furnifli a foundation, on which the a&
of Affembly could itand, and it

inevitably

iared

the fate of

every bafelefs fuperftru&ure.. But is it poffible to render the.
a& confiftent 'ith the exifting conititution ? A flight comparifon will yield a fatisfa&ory anfwer. The a& declares, that
,a foreigner, having taken the oath, or affirmation, of allegiance,
and refided here one year, fliall be entitled to all the rights and
pivileges fpeclfied in the 4 2d fetion of the old conftitution ;
that is, he may acquire, hold, and transfer real eftate, and enjoy
fill th8 rights of a natural born fubje& of this ftate, except the
right of being ele&ed a -eprefentative, which he cannot enjoy
for two years. Now, the exifting conftitution will not allow
any man to be even an eledtor, who has not refided here two
years ; and befides requiring a longer period of refidence than
two years, to entitle a citizen to be eleited a reprefentative, a fenator, or governor, it fuper'dds the qualification, that he fliall be
of a certain age, before he can be cfiofen for thofe offices refpecsively. If, then, the a6t of affembly is in force, an alien naturalized

CiRcuIr CoURr, Peflfylvania Diftri&.

373

ralized under it, having the rights of the old, is in a fituation pre- 1797.
ferable to a natural bdrn citizen under the accumulative reftraints %.rV--'
of the new conflitution. But a contrary conftru~tion has been
given whenever the point was direly prefented for confideration (which was not the cafe in Collet v. Collet) bythe legiflature,
by our courts, and by the bar.
'PETERS, :oice. At the time of committing the defendant,
fome doubts arofe in my mind; which, on account of the importance of the fubje~t, I thought it more proper to fubmit to 4
folemn difcuffion, than haftily-to decide at my chambers. I take
the earlieft opportunity, however, to acknowledge, that I am;
now convinced the commitment vas erroneous. Thea& of affembly is obvioufly inconfiftent with the exifting conifitution'of
the ftate ; and, therefore, cannot be faved by the general provifion of the fchedule annexed to it. On that ground only my
opinion is formed ; but it is fufficient to authorife a declaration,
that the proceeding before the Mayor was, ipfofaio, void; that,
the prifoner is not a citizen of the United Statej ; and that, confequently, he muff be releafed from the charge of Higl-Treafon.
I am of the fame opinion. Difficulties,
IREDELL, Yu/lice.
it is true, have been fuggefted on points not neceffary to a decifion on the prefeni occafron ; and, certainly, if the queftion had
not previoufly occurred, I fhould be difpofed to think, that the
power of naturalization operated exclufively, as foon as it was
exercifed by .Congrefs.
But the circumftances of the cafe now before the court, render
it unneceffary to enquire into the relative jurifdi&ions of the
State and Federal governments. The only a2 of naturalization
fuggefted, depends upon the exiftence, or non-exiftence, of a law
of-Pennfylvania; and it is plain, that upon the abolition of the
old conifitution of the Riate, the law became inconfiftent with
the provifions of the new conftitution, and, of courfe, ceafed to
exift, long before the fuppofed aS of naturalization was performed.
The Prifoner mull, therefore, be difchArged.
The

A

UNITED STATES verfus PARKER.

et al.

Caplas had iffued in this caufe againft Daniel Parker,
Win. Duer, and 7ohn Holker, teturnable to .April term
1792 ; and the Marfbal then returned, Cepi Corpus as to Duer,
(who gave fpecial bail in due time) and non funt inventi, as to
Parker and Holker. After a declaration was filed (reciting that
the IM-arfhal had not found two of the defendants withifi his
Diflri&, and proceeding againft the other alone, upon the principles

