CIRcuIT CouRT, Pennfylvania Diftri&.

365

between the teftator and the defendant, while commifiaries in 1796.
the -4mericanarmy, during the revolutionary war. The Bill
charged the defendant (among other fraudulent pradices) with
making erafures in the complainant's books; and, alfo, fet forth
a number of fpecific errors and over-charges in the account.
The defendant filed an anfwer to the Bill, in which he denied
all fraud, canvaffed and refuted the fpecification of errors and
over-charges, nd pleaded the ftatute of limitations.
Rawle and Lewis, having obtained a rule to fhew caufe, why
the Bill flould not be amended, by inferting, that the frauds
charged had come to the complainant's knowledge within fix
years before the commencement of the fuit, now moved to make
the rule abfolute; and cited I Har.Ch. io6. 3 P. WFm. 143.
Dallas, for the defendant, admitted that the allowance of
amendments was difcretionary with the Court; but, contended,
that after a general anfwer to the allegations, and 'a denial of
the frauds Rated in the Bill, the complainant ought not to be
indulged, without fome other proof to fupport the charge of
fraud, than his bare affertion. In the cafes cited in 3 P. WiM .
143, there was no anfwer to the Bill, but merely a plea of the
ftatute of limitations; and in the principal cafe, the Chancellor
only ordered the defendant to anfwer, which the prefent defendant has already done. Twelve years have elapfed fince the account was fettled; and the fraud being denied on oath, and unfupported by any fpecies of evidence, the complainant ought
not to be permitted to harrafs the defendant, and procraftinate
a decifion.
By THE COUR :-Confiderations refpeaing the merits of the
caufe, ought not to weigh in the determination of the prefent
queftion. The complainant could not forefee that the ftatute
of limitations would be pleaded , and it is in order to bring before the Court an effential faa arifing from that plea, that the
anendient is propofed.
The rule made abfolute.
KETLAND, qui tant. -erfus The CAssius.

AN

information that had been eihibited againft the Ca/7ius,
-- Las a veffel illegally out-fitted within the jurifdifion of
the United States,* came on to be argued upon a fuggeftion filed
ex-offcio by the Attorney of the Diftri&) in purfuance of directions from the Prefident, flating, tl ..t the veffel was the public
See the United States v. R. P-ters. Es,-. in the Supremc Court of
the United Satcs.

-366

CASES ruled and adjudgd

,in the

r796. lic property of the French Republic, and, therefore, not liable
feizire and forfeiture. But foont after the argument was
opened on the merits, a doubt was intimated by the Courts
whether the Circuit Court had jurifdi&ion in this cafe? And
the counfel were requefted, in the firft inftance, to. difcufs
that point.
Lewis, for the informant, contended, that the Diftri& Court
had not, and that this court had, jurifdiffion.-He referred to
the 9 th, i xth, 21ft and 22d feions of the judicial a&t; and
from comparing thefe endeavoured to eftabliflh his general pofition. He laid that the 9 thfeZlion does not give the jurifdi&ion
to the Diftri& Court; for an information in rem, is not within
the ffiil claufe of thefefion, %%hichgives cognizance of crimes
and offences to that Court ; nor is it within the claufe creating
an exclufive original cognizance of all civil cafe§ of admiralty
and maritime jurifdi&ion, for this is not a civil cafe of that defcription, but a proceeding to enforce a forfeiture for' an offence;
and it is certainly not included in the claufe of feizures under
the laws of impoft, navigation, or trade. With refpe& to the
claufe giving the Diftri& Court, .exclufive original cognizance
of all feizures on land, or other waters, &c. and of all fuits for
p,!nalties and forfeitures incurred under the laws of the United
States," 'it muff, in order to preferve confiftency in the different
parts of the law, be underftood to mean exclufive of the State
Courts, and not of the Circuit Court. Penalties of a fpecific
fum recovered by civil fuits in perfonam are here intended to be
.diftinguifhed, from proceedings in rem; and in the former, but
not in the latter, cafe, a jurifdition is gil'en to the Diftri&
Court. The accuracy of this conftruffion may, likewife, be
Itrongly inferred confidering, that an appeal is given from the
DifriEt to the Circuit Court, in fuits in perfonam, but not in
fuits in re;n ;-an-1, thereibre, if the oppofite doarine prevailed,
the Circuit Court would be oufted of all jurifdition, original,
as well as appellate. If it fhould be faid, that this feizure is of
a veffel exceedinj ten toiis burthen, made on navigable waters,,
within the Diftri&, and that it is confequently embraced by the
claufe which gives jurifdi6tion to the Diftri& Court in the cafe
of feizures; it is enough to anfwer, that the operation of that
clauf: is confined to feizures under laws of impoff, navigation,
or trade. But the forfeiture is diftind from the feizure; and
whcre a penalty is given, as well as a forfeiture incurredi for
the breach of any law (whic.h is the cafe in the prefent inflance,
and is frequently the cafe in other inftances) a fuit for the, penalty may be inflituted in the Diftri& Court, and an information, to enforce the forfeiture, may be filed in the Circuit Court.
Then, the i rthfec'ion of the Judicial a& gives to the Circuit
Court, "cxclufive cognizance of all crimes and offences, cognizable
-

-to

-

CIRcUIT CouRT, Pennfylva ia Diftri&.

367

zable under the authority of the. United States, exceptf.whee 1796.
the aa otherwife provides, or the laws of the UnitedStates fiall
otherwife dire&, and concurrefit jurifdi&ion with the Diftri6&
Courts of the crimes and offences cognizable therein." Unlefs,
therefore, there is any law giving cognizance to the Diftr-&
Court, this fe&ion gives it exclufively to the Circuit Court.
But even if the Diftria Court has cognizance, either the preLent caufe of forfeiture muft be taken out of the denomination
of crimes and offences, or by the exprefs words of the a&, the
Circuit Court is vefted with a concurrent jurifdidlion; and the
exclufive words can only be rendered operative by refiri6ting
them to the State Courts.
Rawle, (attorney for the diftri&) ftated the general-opinion
and uniform, pra&ice, to be in favor of the excluflive jurifdiction of the Diltri&t Court; and, he contended, that a fair and rational analyfis of the law, would admit of no other conftruction. It has been decided here as well as in England, that proceedings of this nature are civil fuits. Cowp. 391. United
States, v. Le Vengeur* ; and the words of the Judicial aA are
fo ftrongly exclufive, in giving jurifdition to the.Diftri& Court,
that they cannot be mifunderftood or difregarded. Nor does
the eontradi&ion fuggeftcd really exift ; for, if the obvious
diftindion between profecutions againft perfons for crimes, and
proceedings to recover a forfeiture, is adverted to, there will be
no inconfiftency in referring the concurrent jurifdi~ion of the
Circuit Court to cafes of th former defcription, while the exclufive original jurifdi&ion of the Diftric Court is af'erted, in
,cafes of the latter defcription.
PETERS, 7uflice:-The language of the a& of Congrefs is
fo forcible, to veft an exclufive jurifdi6tion in the Diftri6t
Court, that the impreffion on my mind can never be obviated,
but by fomething equally atithoritative, dire&, and conclufive.
The argument which has been oppofed to this language, merely confiftsof flight analogies, doubtful implications, and unfatisfa~lory dedudions, from a comparative view of different
fctions of the law. To take jurifdilion, however, in any cafe,
the court ought to be clearly of opinion, that the conftiftution
and the law intended to give it; but here, the words will hardly
admit a doubt upon the intention of the legiflature, to exclude
the jurifdiction of the Circuit Court; and, therefore, we can
have no pretence whatever to fuftain the prefent information.
. I have, uniformly affixed this coriftruction to the law. In
the cafe of the United States, v. Guinet, for being concerned
in illegally fitting out a French privateer, the party was arreftcd,
and
'At the requert of the Court; I produced my notes of this cafe oan
the argument.

CASLE ruled and adjudged in the
z796. and fome cannon and other articles were feized. I then; upon
"
full confideration, dir6&ed that the information in rem, to inforce the forfeiture of the cannon, fhould be inifituted in the
Diftri& Court ; but I bound the defendant over to the Circuit
Court, to anfwer perfonally for the offence. *The pra&ice has,
I believe, been conformable to this precedent: Forfeitures under
the Excife laws have certainly been fued for, without exception,
in the Diftri& Court, upon the general jurifdiion given by
the- judicial a&l, and not upon ny fpecial jurifdiE~ion created
for that purpofe.
WILSON, 7tifice:-The Court is bound to take notice of a
queftion of jurildi&ion, whenever it may occur, and however
it may be propofed: For, if we are fatisfied, that we have not
legal cognizance of any caufe ;-or, in terms lefs dire&, if we
are not fatisfied, that we have cognizance; w'e ought not to
proceed to a decifion, or an inveftigation, upon its merits.
In the prefent inftance, it is a queftion of great importance,
and, perhaps, of fome difficulty; but the itrong bias of my
mind, (which encreafes, indeed, with every moment's reflectibn upon the fubjed) is oppofed to the alledgedjurifdiition of
the court. It is fuppofed by the counfel for the informant,
that the jurifdi~lion is maintainable on the pofitive words of
the I ith fehion, and on a fair implication refulting from .a view
of the 21fg and a2dfecionx of the judicial a t: For, it is faidj
if the Court has not original jurifdition; by the xrihfeteian,
it can have no jurifdiCtion at all; fince its appellate jurifdi~lion,
eftablifhed by the '2fl and 22dfe~ions, is confined to civil caufes.
But the jurifdition, in the cafe of crimes and offences, ohvioufly relates to profecutions againft perfons ; and when viewed
in that light, neither the pofitive words of the Iithfeion) nor
any implication refulfing from the 2 f and 22dfefionls, can be

applicable to the prefent caufe, which is not defckibed by the
former,, nor affefted by the latter: to take cognizance of a
proceeding merely in rem, cannot be confidered as taking cognizance.of a crime or offence.
. When, however, we advert to the jurifdiction giveh to the
Diftriit Court, every fhadow of doubt feems to vanifh. The
9 th fec~on of the a&t declares, that "9the Diftrift Court Thalt
have exclufive original cognizance of all fuits for penalties and
forfeitures, incurred under the laws of the United States."
The exclufion is expreffed in firong and unqualified terms ; nor
can it, by any reafonable interpretation, be reftri&ed to a mere
exclufion of the State Courts. Wherever, indeed, a qualified
exclufion is intended, the expreffion of the legiflature conefponds x,ith that intention. Thus, it is provided, in two different
* See ant, p. 321. United States v, Guinel.

CIRcur;"CoURT, Pernqhvania Diftri.

3

rent members of the very flme fe&ion, that the Difiri& Court 1796.
fliall have, " exclufively of the Courts of the feveral States,"
cognizance of all crimes and offences, committed upon the high
feas, &c. and of fuits againft Confuls or Vice Confuls. But, if
the conitrudion, which I have ftated, is corrc&, no contradiction exifts, to call for any ftrained expofition of the law. The
jurifdiction given to the Circuit Court, whether exclufive, or
concurrent, will be fupported by applying it to profecutions
againft delinquents for crimes and offences ; and the exclufive
jurifdi&ion given to the )Diftri6t Court will be preferved by allotting to it all fuits for penalties and forfeitures under the laws
of the United States. Whether, therefore, this is a fuit for a forfeiture, appears, upon the whole, to be the only real 6bje&t of
enquiry. We think that it is a fuit of that denomination; andj
confequently, cannot take cognizance of it.
I But th6 fubje& is entitled to the moft folemri confideration,
and the moft authoritative judgment. We fhall be happy,
therefore, to affift in putting it upon any troper footing, to obtain the opinion of the Supreme Court. In the meantime,
Br THE CoUT -. Let the infoimation be difmiffed.*
Lewis doubted whether a Writ of Error would lie for want of
parties, as the FrenchRepublic had refufed to file a 'laim to the veffel;
and, he faid,tht he was prepared to contend, that the fuggeftion filed
ex officio by the Attorney of the Diftri&t, ought to be difiniffed. The
next day, he mcniioned, thatprefuming the decifion againft the jurif.diction of the Circuit Court, was, in effect, "recognition of th e jurifdiction of the Di(trict Court, lie fhould refort to that tribunal, without giving this Court (who had deferred, pronouncing their deciflon, ia
order that h.emight confider the matter) any further trouble.

4,;t

