XUPReIME CoURT Or Pennfylvania.
difina contra& for a voyage to the Ifland of Pras''denee, and 1792
that being completed, we are of opinion, that the plaintiff is entitled to his wages till that time.
Verdi& for the Plaintiff.

T

FIELD for the ufe of OXL.i, et. al. ver/ii BiDDLE.

HIS was an a~ion of debt, on a bond dated the i ft ofMat

1786; conditioned for the payment oflooo, on or be; and the defendant pleaded payment,
for the ift of Nov.
with leave to give the fpecial matter in evidence. The defence
fet up on the trial was, that it had been agreed by the parties,
that the b6nd fhould be void, unlefs Oxley & Hancock, Mierchants refiding in BEigland, tranfinitted a ratification of certain
articles of compofition within fix months: and the following
teftimony was given :x. The articles of compofition, dated the 3 d of May 1786,
ftating, that tht plaintiffs have agreed with . Collins (who was
indebted above £0ooo fierling, to Oxley & Hancock) that Collitn
Thall pay C i ooo to Oxley &'Haniock, "provided that this agreement of compofition fhall not take effef as to a fall difcharge
of Co/lin,, until Oxley & Hancock fhall have tranfiitted- their
ratification to America."
2d. A receipt by one of the plaintiffs, for the bond in fuit,
"being given in confequence of the above agreement" atho"
dated the ift of May, 86.
3 d. A lctter d.tfd 2 7 th Dec. 17 86, from Field, acknowled-.
glng a demand made upon him by Biddle, for the bond in queftlon.
The defendaint then offered TYilfiam Bell as a witnefs to prove,
that at the time the bond was executed, it was agreed that it
Ihould be void, if the ratification did not arrive in fix months.,
The teftimony was objeaed to ; but after fome argument, the
point was referved, and became the fubje& of difcuffion at the
prefent Term.
Ingerfoll, for the plaintiff-The intention of the parties muft
be conftrued by the bond and the indenture. The attempt is now
made to explain away or vary a written agrvment 5 to flhew
that to be conditional, which the writing imports to be abfolute.
Bac. B/em. 90. 4 BI. Com. 483. 9. No parol averment varying the condition of a bond, fhall be admitted as a plea. Cow.
47- 1 E. 2.47. The exceptions do not reach this cafe; they
may be reduced to three general heads. i To rebut an equity.
a To afcertain a perfon or thing which cannot be afcertained
by the writing itfelf. 3 When a claufe is left out by fraud or,
miftakc. Th cAfe in 3.Atk. 77. was of a circumfiancewhich could
ncr
YA

172

'CAsEs ruled and adjudged it the

1792. not take place in the writing. . 388 was a fuggeftion of frauil
is referred to in 2 B.Rep. 124i. I Vez. 457- was a miftake

t-y-.and

re&ified by the minutes. The rule is always adhered to, unlefs
there is fraud. The drawer of the articles there did not purfue
the intent ofthe minutes. 2 7'ez. 375. Evidence is never admitted to contradi&t a written agreement ; but a fubfequent agreement may. The cafe of -arvey v. Harvey, referred to in
-itz. 240, was that of a deed made to fave an eftate from fequefaration, and this could noot be inferted. But without fuch
foundation it would not be admiffible. Pow. on Powers, Intr. p.
i4. ThG following cafes fhew that the exceptions are thofe
only which are ftated above. z Ak. 575. 8 Co. 155. 2 Ath.
g39" .A blank left in a will, and no parol evidence admitted.
2Atk. 383- .- 373. Declarations made at the execution of a
will refufed. I P. WVns. 3. The rule is laid down. 5 3ac.
$62. - Vern. 98. 1 .3rown. Cb. 93t 94. Pow, on Cont. 432.
i Dall. Rep. 83.
But, by Tim- COURT-The principle of thi; cafe has often
been determined. The grcateft injuftice would. prevail if fuch
teftimony were reje6ted.
BRADFORD, Jt7i/ce .- I concur with the Court, upon the au-thority of Hutr v. firkbride. I have never, it is true, been fully fatisfied with that cafe: It goes one ftep beyond that of
iHarvey v. Harvey; and'much farther than any other ii. the
.Erglih books. Yet, as it has often been recognized in this

4 our, I feel myfelf bound by its authority.
On the trial of the caure abiove reported, the plaintiff'%counfel
vffered as a witnefr iJohn Field,the nominalplaintiff the fuit being fiated; and proved to be, for the benefit of OxIey "Hancock. They urged, that he was a mere truftee, without any intereft whatever in the
event of the caufe. In AlMClenachan -u. Scott, lately determined in
the Common Pleas, it appeared, that after the fuit was brought, the
plaintiff had become a bankrupt, bitt the affignees carried on the caufe;
nnd the plaintiff was admitted as a -witnefi. referving the point as to
is competency; -which was afterwards on full argument 4etermined
in the -:ffirmative. A diflin&ion -was taken between a voluntary at:
-tgnment of a chose nr action, and one by operation of law. So in
M'Comb v. Cox,, - Dall. Rep. the ilaintiffwas held tohave no powrt
ever-the fuit, and therefore he could not b liable to cofis.
Lewis in reply, infifled, that .d'Clenachan &" Scot -went entirely on.
the compulfive alfignment, and did nit apply at all to voluntary affigmees. 'The cafe in Gib. z2o. is not fupported by the cafes cited. In
that in lfod.
there referred to, the executor was not a party.
in 3 P ints. 18x, the oppofite do&rine is laid down. In this cafe, the
Court would not have compelled the plaintiffs to lend their names; they
iight have afligned. Iere the plaintiffs are certainly liable to cols;
iand in Halden v.Fisher, executor, the defendant was refufed, tho' lie
.adzno interefi in the eventand offered to pay all the cofts into Court.
Insersoll.h

