.404

OCTOBER TERM; 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

HENNINGSEN v. UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND
GUARANTY COMPANY OF BALTIMORE, MARYLAND.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 78.

Argued December 16, 17, 1907.-Decided February 24, 1908.

Although diversity of citizenship is alleged in the bill, if the grounds of the
suit and relief are also based on statutes of the United States, which, as in
this case, are necessarily elements of the decision of the Circuit Court of

Appeals, an appeal lies from the judgment of that court to this court.
The equity of the surety on a bond given by a contractor under the act of
August 13, 1894, 28 Stat. 278, who by reason of the contractor's default
has been obliged to pay material-men and laborers, is superior to that of a
bank loaning money to the contractor, secured by assignments of amounts
to become due. In such a case the surety is subrogated to the rights of
the contractor, but the bank is not.
143 Fed. Rep. 810, affirmed.

R. M. HENNINGSEN and Edward W. Clive, as copartners, in
May, 1903, contracted with the United States for the construction of certain buildings at Fort Lawton, in the State of Washngton, and entered into a bond with the United States Fidelity
and Guaranty Company of Baltimore (hereinafter called the
Guaranty Company) as surety in the penal sum of $11,625 for
the faithful performance of the contract, and to "promptly
make full. payments to all persons supplying labor or .materials
in the prosecution of the work provided for in said contract."
The buildings were constructed in accordance with the terms
of the contract, but the contractors failed to pay certain just
and lawful claims for labor and materials, amounting in the
aggregate to $15,409.04. After such default the Guaranty
Company instituted a suit in the United States Circuit Court
for the District of Washington, in which it made the contractors
and all persons to whom they were indebted for labor and
materials defendants, confessing its own liability to the full
amount of the bond. A decree was entered, adjudging the

BENNINGSEN v. U. S. FIDELITY & GUARANTY CO. 405
208 U. S.

Statement of the Cse.

company liable to such creditors of the contractors in the full
sum of the bond, $11,625, and awarding payment to. such
-creditors pro rata. It also adjudged that upon such payment
the liability of the company upon, the bond should be discharged. On March 16, 1904, pending the performance of the
contract, the contractor, or rather Henningsen alone, for Clive
had ceased to have any connection with the performance -of
the contract, made a written assignment of all payments which
were then due, or might thereafter become due on account of
the contract, to R. R. Spencer,; in trust for the National Bank
of Commerce of Seattle, to secure payment of a loan made by
the bank to the contractors; October 10, 1903, of $3,500, and
also subsequent loans,- and at the same time gave as further
security an order addressed to the United States quartermaster,
requesting him to deliver to said Spencer all checks of the
Government on account. of said contract. The moneys so
loaned were paid directly by the ban~k to Henningsen and
handled and disbursed by him, without any supervision or
control upon the part of the bank or Spencer. This suit was
commenced by the Guaranty Company by a bill in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Washington to
restrain the appellants from collecting or accepting the balance
due on the contract from the United States. It appeared at
the time of the commencement of the suit that there was in.
the hands of the quartermaster, due upon the contract, the
sum of $13,066, which he was about to pay to Spencer under
the assignment and order. On June 17, 1904, an arrangement
was made between the parties, by which the sum of $8024.21
was paid to certain creditors, and the balance, $5,041.79, was
applied in conditional payment of the indebtedness of the
contractors to th, bank, with a stipulation that if it should be
.-finally determined that the GuAranty Company was entitled
to receive it then the bank should pay it to the Guaranty Company. This suit proc,!eded to a decree in favor of the Guaranty
Company for $5,041.79, which decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. (February 12, 1906; 143 Fed. Rep. 810;

. 400

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant&

208 U.s.

74 C.C.A. 484.) The bond of the Guaranty Company was given
under the requirements of the act of Congress of August 13,
1894, c. 280 (28 Stat. 278), which reads:
"That hereafter any person or persons entering into a formal
contract with the United States for the construction of any
public building, or the prosecution and completion of any
public work, or for repairs upon any public building or public
work, shall be required before commencing such work to execute the usual penal bond, with good and sufficient sureties,
with the additional obligations that such contractor or contractors shall promptly make payments to all persons supplying
him or them labor and materials in the prosecution of the work
provided for in such contract; and any person or persons making
application therefor, and furnishing affidavit to the department
under the direction of which said work is being, or has been,
prosecuted, that labor or materials for the prosecution of such
work has been supplied by him or them, and payment for which
has-not been made, shall be furnished with a certified copy of
said contract and bond, upon which said person or persons
supplying such labor and materials shall have a right of action,
and shall be authorized to bring suit in the name of the United
States for his or their use and benefit against said contractor
and sureties and to prosecute the same to final judgment and
execution: Provided, That such action and prosecution shall
involve the'United States in no expense."
Mr. George E. de Steigner, with whom Mr. W. W. Wilshire

was on the brief, for appellants:
The contract, so far as the United States is concerned, had
been fully performed, so that there was no right of the Government to which the surety company could be subrogated; the
creditors furnishing labor and material had no lien upon the
fund, and therefore there was no right in their favor to which
the surety company could be subrogated; therefore the War
Department was entitled to pay it to the contractors or to
their assignee, the bank, and either the contractors or the bank

HENNINGSEN v. U. S. FIDELITY & GUARANTY CO. 407
208 U.S.

Argument for Appellants.

was entitled to receive it.. Therefore the Circuit Court of Appeals was in error in stating that "the real question in the case
is one of priority of equitiesas between the bank and the surety
company." The real question is whether the surety company
had any equity whatsoever;
It must recover, if at all, on the strength of its own right.
This right must be something more than the general right of a
creditor to be paid. It must be something in the nature of a
lien, legal or equitable, upon the particular fund. PrairieState.
Bank v. United States, 164 U. S. 227; First Nationdl Bank v.
City Trust Company, 114 Fed. Rep. 529; Greenville Savings
Bank v. Lawrence, 76 Fed. Rep. 545; Lawrence v. United States,.
71 Fed. Rep. 228; Reid v. Pauly, 121 Fed. Rep. 652; Richard
Brick Company v. Rothwell, 18 App. D. C. 516.
The decision in each case was founded upon the fact, either
that the contractors had failed to perform their contract and
the sureties had completed the performance thereof for the
Government, or that the contract provided for the retention
of a portion of the contract price until laborers and materialmen were paid. In the present case, neither of these facts is
found. The original contractors finished the work for the
Government; and the contract contained, no stipulation for
retaining any part of the amount due for the payment of
laborers and material-men.. There is, therefore, no default of
which the Government can take advantage. So far as it is
concerned, the contract has been fully performed. United
States v. Rundle, 100 Fed. Rep. 400; United States v. National
Surety Co.,.92 Fed. Rep, 549.
There was no right or equity left in the United States to
which the complainant could be subrogated. Liles v. Rogers,
113 N. Car. 197.
The laborers and material-men never had any right to the
fund. Aside from some statutory or contract provision,
laborers or material-men have no claim, legal or equitable,
either against the property improved, or the contract price.
Lawrence v. United States, 71 Fed. Rep. 228; Canal Co. v. Gor-

OCTOBER TERM,. 1907.
Argument for Appellees.

208 U.S.

don, 6 Wall. 561, 571; Withrow Lumber Co. v. Glasgow Investment Co., 101 Fed. Rep. 863-868; Mechanics' Bank v. Winant,
1 N. Y. S. 659-660; Randolph v. New York, 53 How. Pr. 68;
Phillips on Mechanics' Liens, § 1; 20 Am. & Eng. Enc. Law
(2d ed.), 269, 293.
Of course, in no case is there such a claim in the case of
public property. 20 Am. & Eng..Enc. Law (2d ed.), 295.
The complainant cannot be subrogated to any rights of the
Government, because the contract had been fully performed
and the Government had lost all interest in the retention of the
fund; and the complainant cannot be subrogated to the rights
of the laborers or material-men, because the fund was not
retained for their benefit and they have no interest therein
to which the right of subrogation can attach.
Mr. James B. Murphy, with whom Mr. Harold Preston,
Mr. Carroll B. Graves and Mr. Edward B. Palmer were on the
brief, for appellees:
The assignment made by Henningsen to Spencer is void
under Rev. Stat., §§ 3477,.3737, as against the rights of third
persons. Greenville Savings Bank et al. v. Lawrence, 76 Fed.
Rep. 545; United Stales v. Gillis, 95 U. S. 407; Spaw/ord v.
Kirk, 97 U. S. 484.
The appellant bank occupies-no better position than. a general creditor. It was under no obligation to lend this money,
and there is no proof that any part of it was used on the contract in question. The money was passed to the credit of Henningsen, and checked out to whom and for what no one seems
to know, and as far as' this fund is concerned the bank is a
stranger and a mere volunteer. Emmert v. Thompson, 52
N. W. Rep. 31; Sheldon on Subrogation, §240; £tza Life Ins.
Co. v. Middlepc.rt, 124 U. S. 534.
On the other hand, this appellee, by admitting its liability
and paying the full penalty of its bond into court, comes into
court with clean hands. It did equity and to all intents and
purposes occupies the same position in a court of equity asa

HENNINGSEN v. U. S. FIDELITY & GUARANTY CO. 409
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

surety who had finished a contract or had already paid the contractors' bills. That is, it is entitled to assert thedoctrine of
subrogation and has a prior equity in this fund. The doctrine
of subrogation does not depend on a lien. Xitna Life Ins. Co.
v. Middleport, 124 U. S. 534; Matthews v. Fidelity Trust Co., 52
Fed. Rep. 687; Memphis & Little Rock R. R. Co. v. Dow, 120
U. S. 287; Emmert v. Thompson, 52 N. W. Rep. 31;. Prairie
State Bank v. United States, 164 U. S. 227; First National Bank
v. City Trust Co., 114 Fed. Rep. 529.
. The. appellants' contention that appellee is not entitled to
assert the right of subrogation is not well founded. . They insist that there. "must be something in the nature of a lien."
Such is not the law. This'doctrine is a creation of equity to
see that substantial justice is done by one who in good conscience ought to do it. XEtna Life Ins. Co. v. Middlepdrt, 124
U. S. 534; Memphis & Little Rock R. R. Co. v. Dow, 120 U. S.'
287; Emmert v. Thompson, 52 N. W. Rep. 31; Prairie State
Bank V. United States, 164 U. S.227, and cases cited.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion is made to dismiss on the ground that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked solely on the ground
of the diversity of citizenship of the parties, and hence the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals was final. The motion
must be overruled. Diversity of citizenship was, it is true,
alleged in the bills, but grounds of suit and relief were also
based on the statutes of the United States, as from the discus-'
sion of the merits will be seen. Those statutes entered as elements into the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and
were necessary elements. Howard v. United States, 184 U. S.
676; Warner v. Searle & Hereth Co., 191 U. S. 195, 205.
Passing to the merits of the case, the question turns upon
the 'respective' equities of the parties. Appellants concede
that the bank was not by the making of the. loans to Henningsen entitled to subrogation to the rights', if any, of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

States or the laborers or material-men, and also that if the Guaranty Company is entitled to subrogation to any right of the
United States Government arising through the building contract, the bank can make no claim by reason of the assignment.
Henningsen, for we may; leave Clive out of consideration,
entered into a contract with the United States to construct
buildings. The Guaranty Company was surety on that contract. Its stipulation was not merely that the contractor should
construct the buildings, but that he should pay promptly and
in full all pcrsons supplying labor and material in the prosecution of the work contracted for. He did not make this payment,
and the Guaranty- Company, as surety, was compelled to and
did make the payment. Is its equity superior to that of one
who simply loaned money to the contractor to be by him used
as he saw fit, either in the performance of his building contract
or in any other way? We think it is. It paid the laborers and
material-men and thus released the contractor from his obli ,ations to them, and to the same extent released the Government
from all equitable obligations to see that the laborers and supply
men were paid. It did this not as a volunteer but by reason of
contract obligations entered into before the commencement of
the work. PrairieState Bank v. United States, 164 U. S. 227,
is in point. In that case Sundberg & Co., in 1888, contracted
with the Government to build a custom-house at Galveston.
Hitchcock was surety on that contract. On February 3, 1890,
in consideration of advances made and to be made by the Prairie Bank, Sundberg & Co. gave a power of attorney to.a representative of the bank to receive from the United States the
final payment under the contract. In May, 1890,*Sundberg &
Co. defaulted in the performance of this contract and Hitchcock, as surety, without any knowledge of the alleged rights
of the bank, assumed the completion of the contract and disbursed therein about $15,000 in excess of the current payments
from the Government. In a contest between Hitchcock and
the Prairie Bank it was held that Hitchcock had the superior
equity, and the judgment of the Court of Claims in his favor

HENNINGSEN v. U. S. FIDELITY & GUARANTY C0 411
208 U. B.

Opinion of the Court.

for the amount still due from the Government was affirmed.
The bank loaned to Sundberg & Co. about $6,000 prior to the
time that they defaulted in the performance of their contract
and prior to any action by Hitchcock in completing the contract or in paying out money, so that the bank actually parted
with $6,000 of its money before Hitchcock parted with any of
his. It was held that Hitchcock's equity commenced with his
obligation in 1888 to see that Sundberg & Co; duly performed
their contract with the Government. Mr. Justice WHITE, delivering the opinion of the court, reviewed the authorities at
length and discussed the question fully. He said (p. 232):
"Under the principles thus governing subrogation, it is
clear whilst Hitchcock was entitled to subrogation, the bank
was not. The former in making his payments discharged an
obligation due by Sundberg, for the performance of which he,
Hitchcock, was bound under the obligation of his suretyship..
The bank, on the contrary, was a mere volunteer, who lent
money to Sundberg on the faith of a presumed agreement and
of supposed rights acquired thereunder. The sole question,
therefore; is whether the equitable lien, which the bank claims
it has, without reference to the question of its subrogation, is
paramount to the right of subrogation which unquestionably
exists in favor of Hitcheock. In other words, the rights of the
parties depend upon whether Hitchcock's suibrogation must be
considered as arising from and relating back to the date of the
original contract or as taking its origin solely from the date
of the advance by him."
It seems unnecessary to again review the authorities. It is
sufficient to say that we agree with the views of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, expressed in its opinion, in the present case:
"Whatever equity, if any, the bank had to the fund in question, arose solely by reason of the loans it made to Henningsen.
Henningsen's surety was, upon elementary principles, entitled
to assert the equitable doctrine of subrogation; but it is equally
clear that the bank was not, for it was amere volunteer, and
undtr no legal obligation to loan its money. PrairieState Bank

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U.S.

v. United States, 164 U. S. 227; Insurance Company v. Middleport, 124 U. S. 534; Sheldon on Subrogation, § 240." See also
United States Fidelity Co. v. Kenyon, 204 U. S. 349, 356, 357.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Afrmed.

MULLER, PLAINTIF,e IN ERROR, v. THE STATE OF
OREGON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE, STATE OF OREGON.
No. 107.

Argued January 15, 1908.-Decided February 24, 1908.

The peculiar value of a written constitution is that it places, in unchanging
form, limitations upon legislative action, questions relating to which are
not settled by even a consensus of public opinion; but when the extent of
one of those limitations is affected by a question of fact which is debatable
and debated, a widespread and long continued belief concerning that fact
is worthy of consideration.
This court takes judicial cognizance of all matters of general knowledgesuch as the fact that woman's physical structure and the performance of
maternal functions place her at a disadvantage which justifies a difference
in legislation in regard to some of the burdens which rest upon her.
As healthy mothers are essential to vigorous offspring, the physical wellbeing of woman is an object of public interest. The regulation of her hours
of labor falls within the police power of the State, and a statute directed
exclusively to such regulation does not conflict with the due process or
equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The right of a State to regulate the working hours of women rests on the
police power and the right to preserve the health of the women of the
State, and is not affected by other laws of the State granting or denying
to women the same rights as to contract and the elective franchise as are
enjoyed by men.
While the general liberty to contract in regard to one's business and the sale
of one's labor is protected by the Fourteenth Amendment that liberty is
subject to proper restrictions under the police power of the State.
The statute of Oregon of 1903 providing that no female shall work in certain
establishments more than ten hours a day is not unconstitutional so far
as resjects laundries.
48 Oregon, 252, affirmed..
THE

facts, which involve thc constitutionality of the statute

