DONNELL v. :HERRING-HALL-MARVIN SAFE CO. 267
208 U.S.

Argument for Petitioner.

DONNELL v. HERRING-HALL-MARVIN
SAFE
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 106. Argued January 14, 15, 1908.-Decided February 8, 1908.
A stockholder, even though also an officer, of a corporation bearing his
family name does not necessarily lose his right'to carry on the business
of manufacturing the same commodity under his own name because that
corporation sold its good will, trade name, etc., and as a stockholder
and officer he participated in the sale. He is not entitled, however, to
use, and may be enjoined by the purchaser from using, any name, mark
or advertisement indicating that he is the successor 6f the original corporation or that his goods are the product of that corporation or of its
§uccessor, nor can he interfere in any manner with the good will so pur.
chahed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George P. Merrick and Mr. S. S.. Gregory for. petitioner:

A- family surname is incapable of exclusive appropriation
by anyone as against others of the same name, who are using
it legitimately in their own business.
In the .abience -of contract, fraud or estoppel any man. may
use his own name in all legitimate ways and as the whole or

part of a corporate name.
One corporation is not entitled to restrain another from
using in its corporate title the name to which others have a.
common right.
. The. espence of the wrong in unfair competition, consists
in the sale of the goods of one manufacturer or vendor, for
those of another. And if competition is so conducted as not
to mislead the public nor palm off the goods of one as.' those
of another, o wrong exists.
The right of the individual to use his own name, reputation

268

OCTOBER TERM; 1907.
Argument for Respondents.

208 U. S.

and experience in that business or occupation for which he is
best fitted, is important to the public as well as to the individual, and to deprive him of. that right is in restraint of
trade and against public policy.
The stockholders of a corporation which has sold its property, business and good will and has been dissolved, may, in
the absence of individual contracts not to engage in competition, or after*the expiration of such contracts by limitation,
engage in cornipetition to the same extent as anyone else.
Howe Scale Co. v. .Wyckofi'et al., 198 U. S. 118; Brown Chemical
Co. v.. Meyer., 139 U. S.. 540; SiAger Mfg. Co. v. June Mfg. Co.,
163 U.S. 169; Elgin National Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co.,
179 U. S. 665; Goodyear India Rubber Mfg. Co. v. Goodyear
Rubber Co., 128 U. S. .598; Canal Co. v. Clark, 13 Wall..311;
Columbia Mill Co. v. Alcorn, 150 U:.
S. 460; Lawrence Mfg. Co.
v... Tennessee Mjg. Co, 138 U. S. .537; ,McLean v. Fleming, .96
U. S. 645; Coats v. Merrick Thread Co.,.149 U. S.. 562; Oregon
Steam Navigation Co. v: Winsor, 20 Wall. 64.
Mr.- Charles H. Aldrich and Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, Jr'.,
withwhom Mr. Hery S. McAuley was on the brief, for respondents:
The corporation is a distinct entity separate from its stockholders. - But the theory of corporate entity is not allowed
to protect fraudulent conduct, hide the truth or defeat the
ends of public or private jvstice.. Northern Securities Co. v.
Unitecd States; 193 U. S. 197; Anthony v. American Glucose
Co., 146 N. Y.- 407; State v. Standard Oil Co., 49 Ohio St. 137,
177; McKinley v. Wheeler, 130 U. S. 630, 636; Myers v. Kalamazoo Buggy Co., 54 Michigan,. 215; 1 Puidy's Beach on Corporations, 6.
Stockholders are bound by those acts of their corporation
wvhich can only be taken with their assent, and to which they
give assent by. affi-mative vote or acquiescence. Cook on
Corporations, §.670, and cases cited; Holmes, Booth & Hayden
v. Holmes, Booth & Atwood Co.,. 37 Connecticut, 278, 294;

DONNELL v. HERRING-HALL-MARVIN SAFE CO. 269
208 U.S.

Argument for Respondents.

Richmond Nervine Co. v. Richmond, 159 U. S. 293; Le Page
Company v. Russia Cement Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 941Y Cement Co.
v. Le Page, 147 Massachusetts, 206; Pehberthy Injector Co. v.
Lee (Mich.), 78 N. W. Rep. 1074.
The name "Hall" having been so long identified with the
safe business'a. to acquire a secondary meaning, the sale of
that business as a going concern, including the trade rights
and good will, passed to the purchaser the exclusive right to
use the name in that business as against all parties participating in the sale. Le Page Co. v. .Russia Cement Co., 51 Fed.
Rep. 941; C S. Higgins Co. v. Higgins Soap Co., 144 N. Y.
462; Russia Cement Co. v. Le Page, 147 Massachusetts; 206;
Menedez v. Holt, 128 U. S. 514; Hozey v. Chaney, 143 Massachusetts, 592; Brown Chemical Co. v. Meyer, 139 U. S.
548; Richmond Co. v. Richmond, 159 U. S. 293; Hopkins,
Unfair Trade, 109, 110; Dodge ScF.ationery Co. v. Dodge, 78
Pac. Rep. 879; Myers v. Kalamazoo Buggy Co., 54 Michigan,
215.
The Hall's Safe Company, composed of the Halls who sold
the original Hall's Safe and Lock Company to the respondent's

predecessor, should be enjoined from the use of the word Hall
in the safe business because: they have been paid for the name;
they are estopped to assert a right to it; their use of the name
Hall constitutes a fraud upon -respondent. Howe Scale Company v. Wyckoff, Seamans & Benedict, 198 U. S* 118; Peck
Bros. & Co. v. Peck Bros. Co., 113 Fed. Rep,. 291; Chickering
et al.,v. Chickering & Sons, 120 Fed. Rep. 69; Royal Baking
Powder Co. v. Royal, 122 Fed. Rep. 337; Singer Manufacturing
Co. v. June Manufacturing Co., 163 U. S. 169; Singer Manufacturing Co. v. Brent, 163 U. S. 205; Brown Chemical Co. v.
Meyer, 139 U. S. 540; The Le Page Company v. Russia Cement
Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 941; Russia Cement Co. v. Le Page, 147
Massachusetts, 206; Hoxie v. Chaney, 143 Massachusetts, 592;
McLean v. Fleming, 96.U. S.245; Frazer v. Frazer Lubricator
Co., 121 Illinois, 147; Charles S. Higgins Co. v. Higgins Soap
Co., 144 N. Y. 462; Levy v. Walker, L. R. 10 Ch. D. 436; Garrett

.270

2OCTOBER TERM; 1907.
Opinion of the Court,

208 U. B.

v. T. ff. Garrett & Co., 78 Fed. Rep. 472; Meyers v. Kaamozo
Buggy Co., 54 Michigan, 215.
Even if the Halls were at liberty to use their name in the
safe. business, the decree of the court below should be affirmed
because of petitioner's fraudulent conduct, which has rendered any qualified use of the name by him an injury to :the
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HoLME-s-delivered the opinion. of the court.
This suit was brought in the Superior Court of Cook County,
Illinois, by the Hall Safe and Lock Company against the
Herring-HaPl-Marvin Safe Company, and was removed by
the latter to the United States Circuit Court. The bill sought
to enjoin 'the defendant from representing itself to be the
successor of the Hall Safe and Lock Company and otherwise,
as need not be stated in detail. The defendant answered, denying the plaintiff's rights and setting up its own. At the same
time it'filed a cross-bill to which it made the petitioner Donnell,
the president of the plaintiff company, a party, and by which
it sought to enjoin the plaintiff and Donnell from carrying on
the safe business under any name of which the word Hall is
a part, or marking or advertising their safes with any such
name, etc., unless made by the defendant or its named predetessors in business. The bill was dismissed by the Circuit
Court, no appeal was taken, and it is not in question here.
On the cross-bill'an injunction was issued as prayed and an
account of profits ordered. This decree Was afriimed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 143 Fed. Rep. 231; S. C., 74.C. C. A.
361. Subsequently an injunction' was grafited by the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the SixthCircuit, but in much more limited form, after a consideration of the present case. 146 Fed.
Rep. 37; S. C., 76 C. C. A. 495. Later still a certiorari was
issued .by-this court.
The facts are as follows: About sixty years ago Joseph L.
Hall started a'business of constructing safes, and in time at-

DONNELL v. HERRING-HALL-MARVIN SAFECO. 271
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

-

tached a reputation to his name. In 1867 he and his-partners'
organized an Ohio corporation by the name of Hall's Safe and
Lock Company, which went on with the business. (This was
not the plrintiff, which is an Illinois corporation of much later
date.) Hall was the president, a part or the whole of the time,
until he died in 1889. He owned the greater part of the: stock
and his children the rest.. In 1892 the Ohio company sold Q
its property, including trade-marks, trade rights and good will,
and its business as a going concern, to parties who conveyed
on the same day to the Herring-Hall-Marvin Company. Sub sequently this company's property was sold to the HerringHall-Marvin. Safe Company, the party to this suit., In its conveyance the Ohio Company agreed to go out of business and
get wound up, which it did with the assent,,it may be assumed,
of all the stockholders. The stock belonged to the Hall family,
.and connections, and they, of course, ultimately received the
consideration of the sale. A part consisted of stock in tl~e new
company, which was. distributed to them at once, and a part
was money paid to the selling company about to be dissolved.
By election and under a contract made on the day of the sale
Edward C. Hall, a son of the founder, became piesident of the
purchasing corporation, the contract reciting that it.was made
as part of the inducement to the purchase, and he agreeing in
it to hold the office until May 2, 1897, to devote all his time
to the interests of the corporation, and, so long as it might.
desire to retain his services as stipulated, not to engage .in any
competing business east of the Mississippi River. Another son
became treasurer under a nearly similar contract, and a sonin-law secretary.
Both sons resigned and left the service of the corporation
August 1, 1896, and both were released, in writing, from their
obligations under their contract. The next month the sons
organized an Ohio corporation, under the name of Hall's Safe
Company, which is party to the litigation in the Sixth Circuit,
but is not a party here. -The petitioner Donnell had been a
selling agent of the original company, and afterwards of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion 6f the Court.

208 U. S.

company that bought it out, having a place in Chicago, with
-a large sign, "Hall's Safes," on the front. In 1898 he, with
.others, organized the plaintiff, Hall Safe and Lock Company,
the name differing from that of the original corporation only
by not using the possessive case. This company does business
in the petitioner's old place, with the old sign, and sells the
safes of the present Ohio corporation as Hall's safes. It has
accepted a decree forbidding it to go on under the above name.
The question before us is upon the scope of the injunction
finally issued, as we have stated, upon the cross-bill. That
the petitioner contends is too broad, while the Herring-HallMarvin Safe Company contends that as against the Hall family
and anyone selling their safes or standing in their shoes it
has the sole right to the very valuable name Hall upon or for
the sale of -safes.
It no longer is disputed that the Herring-Hall-Marvin Safe
Company is the successor of the original Hall's Safe and Lock
Company, or that it has the right to use the word Hall. But
it is denied that it has the exclusive right. The name does not
designate a.specific kind of safe, and yet may be assumed to
have commercial value as an advertisement even when divorced
from the notion of succession in business,-a sort of general
good will, owing to its long association with superior work.
So far as it may be used to convey the fact of succession it
belongs, of course, to the Herring-Hall-Marvin Safe Company, and the' narrower decree, made in the Sixth Circuit,
was intended to prevent the present Ohio company
from using
any name or mark indicating that it is the successor of the
original company, or that its goods are the product of that
company or its successor, or interfering with the good will
bought from it. But, as we have said, we presume that the
word may have value, even when that idea is excluded, and
when there is no interference with the good will or the trade
name sold.
The good will sold was that of Hall's Safe and Lock Company. There is nothing to show.that while that company was

DONNELL v.HERRING-HALL-MARVIN SAFE CO. 273
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

going the sons of Joseph L. Hall could' not have set up iW
business as safe makers under their own' name and could not
have called their safes by their own name, subject only. to
the duty !not to mislead the public into supposing when it
bought from them that it was buying their father's safes.
Therefore it could not be contended that merely by a sale the
father's company could confer greater rights than it had.
But it was said that if a partnership had sold out by a conveyance in like terms the members would have given up the
right to use. their own names if they appeared in the firm
name, that in this case the Halls received the consideration
for the good will they had attached to their~name, that they
ratified the sale and necessarily assented to it, since otherwise the corporation could not have sold its property or have
•carried out its agreement to dissolve, and that under such
circumstances a .court ought to look through the corporation'
to the men behind it.
Philosophy may have gained by the attempts in recent
years to look through the fiction to the fact and to generalize.
corporations, partnerships and other groups into a single
conception. But to generalize is to omit, and in this instance
to omit one characteristic of the complete corporation, as*
called into being under modern statutes, that is most important in business and law. A leading purpose of such statutes
and of those- who act under them is to interpose a nonconductor, through which in matters of contract it is impossible
to see the men behind' However it might be with a par.
nership, Russia Cement Co. v. Le Page, 147 Massachusetts,
206, 211, when this corporation sold its rights everybody. had
notice and knew in fact that it was not selling the rights personal to its members, even if, as always, they really received
the consideration, or, as usual,- they all assented to its act.
That it contracted for such assent, if it did, by its undertaking.
to dissolve, does not make the contract theirs. But the case
does not stop there. The .purchasing company had the possi-:
'bility of competition from the Halls before its mind and gav
voL. ccvII-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

208 U. S.

"thie measure of its expectations and demands by the personal
contracts that it required. Those contracts were limited in
time and scope and have been discharged.
A further argument was based on the confusion produced
by the petitioner through his use of signs and advertisements
calculated to make the public think that his concern was the
successor of the first corporation and otherwise to mislead.
This confusion must be stopped, so far as it has not been by
the decree in force, and it will be. But it is no sufficient reason
for taking from the Halls the right to continue the business
to which they were bred and to use their own name in doing
so. An injunction against7using any name, mark or advertisement indicating that the plaintiff is the successor of the original
company, or that its goods are the product of that company.
or its successors, or interfering with the good will bought from
it, will protect the .right of the Herring-Hall-Marvin Safe
Company, and is all that it is entitled to demand. See Howe
Scale Co. v. Wyckoff, Seamans & Benedict, 198 U. S. 118;
Singer Manu/acturing Co. v. June Manufacturing Co., 163
U. S. 169.
Decree reversed.

LOEWE v. LAWLOR.
CERTIORARI -TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 389.

Argued D5ecember 4, 5, 1007.-Decided February 3. 1908.

After the Circuit Court of Appeals has certified questions to this court
and this court has issued its writ of certiorari requiring the whole record
to be sent up, it devolves upon this court under § 6. of the Judiciary Act
of 1891, to decide the:whole matter in controversy in the same manner
as if it had been brought here for review by writ of error or appeal.
The Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 209, has a broader application

than the prohibition of restraints of trade unlawful at common law.

