OCTOBER TERM, 1907.

Syllabus.

208 U.B.

Lampasas v. Bell, 180 U. S. 276; Ludeling v. Chaffee, 143 U. S.
301; Giks v. Ltte, 134 U. S. 645; and said (191 U. S. 148):
"These authorities control the present case. It is evident
that- the auditor had no personal interest in the litigation.
He had certain duties as a public officer to perform. The performance of those duties was of no personal benefit to him.
Their non-performance Was equally so. He neither gained nor
lost anything by invoking the advice of the Supreme Court

'asto the. proper action he should take. He was testing the
constitutionality of the law purdy in the interest of third per-

sons, viz.,, the taxpayers, and in, this particular case the case
is analogous to that of Caffrey v. Oklahoma, 177 U. S. 346. We
think the interest of an appellant in this court should be a

personal and not an official interest, and that the defendant,
having sought the advice of the courts of his own.State in his
official capacity, should be content to abide by their decisions."
These decisions control this 'ese and compel a dismissal of
the writ of error, and

It is so or&red.

UNITED STATES v. A. GRAF DISTILLING COMPANY.
,CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 24.

Argued Deermber 16. 1907.-Decided January 27, 1908..

A revenue statute containing provisions of a highly penal nature should
be construed in a fair and -reasonable manner,.and, notwithstanding plain
and unambiguous language, provisions for the prevention of evasion of
taxation, which naturally are applicable to taxable articles only, will not
be held applicable to articles not taxable, *wholly harmless, and not used
for an illegal purpose, in an- improper manner. or in any way affording'
opportunities to defraud the revenue.
The sale of a barrel of whiskey, stamped, branded. and marked so as to
show that the contents have been duly inspected, and the tax thereon'
paid, into which a non-taxable substance has been introduced after such
stamping, branding and marking by an officer of the revenue, does not

UNITED STATES u. GRAF DISTILLING CO.
208 U.S.

199

Statement of the Case.

authorize'a seizure and forfeiture thereof to the United States under the
provisions of § 3455, Rev. Stat.
The phrase "anything else," as employed in 1 3455; Rev. Stat.,. does not
include substances that are not in themselves taxable under the law of
the United States.

comes here on a certificate from the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals. for the Eighth Circuit. The proceeding was commenced in the District Court of the -United
States for the Eastern District of Missouri, January 4, 1905,
by the United States District Attorney for that district, who
filed therein an amended information, praying for a decree of
forfeiture, condemnation and sale of three barrels of whiskey,
which had theretofore been seized by the collector of internal
revenue and were still in his possession and custody.
The sole ground [or the seizure and- forfeiture averred in the
information is.contained in the following paragraph thereof,
as certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals:
"That prior to the time of said seizure of said barrels and
packages, -they, and each of them, had been purchased and
received by A. Graf & Co., they then being Stamped, branded,
and marked so as to show that the contents thereof were distilled spirits of a certain proof*, which had before then been
duly inspected by an officer of the revenue, to wi't, a United
States gauger. That afterwards and .before said seizure said
'barrels and packages, and each. of them, and the contents
therein then contained, were sold to divers persons, each of
the barrels and packages at the time of the sales last aforesaid
containing things else than -the contents, which were therein
when said barrels and packages were so lawfully stamped,
branded and marked by said officer of the revenue as aforesaid, to wit, burnt sugar, commonly called caramel, which had
been added to and placed in said spirits before said lastmentioned sales thereof, in violation oi section 3455 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, whereby and by force
of said statute said barrels and packages and all the contents
thereof became and are forfeited to the United States."
THIS case

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of. the Cane.

208 U. S.

The claimant, A. Graf Distilling Company, demurred to the
.information on the ground that it was insufficient in law to
authorize a decree of forfeiture.
The demurrer was sustained by 'the District Court and, the
United States declining to plead further, it was adjudged that
the barrels of:whiskey be restored to the claimant.
. The ground of the. decision of the District Court was that
the lurpose of § 3455, Rev. Stat., is to prevent the disposition
of packages stamped, branded, or marked, when empty or
when containing a taxable substance other than the contents
which were' therein when they were so lawfully stamped,
* branded, or marked by an officer of the revenue; and that
'burnt sugar or caramel. not being taxable is not within the
meaning of the phrase "anything else" as contained in the
.section referred td.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, in order. to. a correct determination of the cause, desired the instruction of this court
upon the following questions:.
'1. Does the sale of a barrel of whiskey, stamped, branded,.
and marked so*.as. 6. show that the contents have been duly'
inspected, and that the tax thereon has been paid, into which
burnt sugar or-caramel has been introduced after such stamp-.
ing, branding, and marking by an .officer of the revenue, authorize a seizure and forfeiture thereof to the United States
under the prolvisions of section 3455 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States?
"2. Does the phrase 'anything else,' as employed in section 3455 of the Revised Statutes, include substances that
ate not in themselves taxable under the laws of the United
States?"
Section 3455 Of. the Revised Statutes (2 Comp. Stat. 2279),
under which the seizure of the whiskey was made, is set forth
in the margin.'
'SMc. 3455. Whenever any person sells, gives, purchases, or feceives any.
box, barrel, bag, vessel, packhge, wrapper, cover, or envelope of any kind,
stamped, branded,
or marked
inany 1'ayao is to-show
that the contents or*
'
.
.
.
.

UNITED STATES v. GRAF DISTILLING CO.
208 U. S.

.201

Argument for the United States.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General.Cooley for the United States:
The statute is clear and unambiguous and admits of no
construction.
The primary rule of statutory construction is that when
the language of the statute. is clear and unambiguous it admits of no construction, or the rule might be more accurately
expressed by saying that where the language admits of but
one meaning the task of interpretation does not arise, at all.
Endlich, Interpretation of Statutes, § 4, and cases cited;
United States v. Palmer,3 Wheat. 610, 630.
However unjust, arbitrary, or inconvenient a statute may
be, if the language is clear the court will enforce the plain
-meaning. To be sure, if literal interpretation leads to a result
obviously not intended by the legislative branch, the duty of
the court is, reading the statute as a whole and taking into
consideration other statutes in pari materia, to give effect to
the intention.
In the case at bar it cannot be said that the language of
the statute is anything but clear and unambiguous. The prointended contents thereof have been duly inspected, or that the tax thereon
has been paid, or that any .provision of the internal revenue laws has been
complied with, whether such stamping, branding, or marking may have
been a duly authorized act or may be false and counterfeit, or otherwise
without authority of law, said box, barrel, bag, vessel, package, wriipper,
cover, or envelope being empty, or containing anything else than the contents which were therein when said articles had'been so lawfully stamped,
branded, or marked by an officer of the revenue, he shall be liable to a
penalty of not less than fifty nor more than five hundred dollars. And
every person who makes, manufactures, or produces any box, barrel, bag,
vessel, package, wrapper, cover, or envelope, stamped, branded, or marked,
as above described, or stamps, brands, or marks the same, as hereinbefore
recited, qhall be liable to-penalty as before provided in this section. • And
* every person who violates the foregoing provisions of. this section, with intent t defraud the revenue, or to defraud any person, shall be liable to a
fine of not less than one thousand nor more than five thousand.dollars, or
to imprisonment for not less than six months fior more than five years, or
to both, at the discretion of the court. And all articles sold, giveh, purchased, received, made, manufactured, produced, branded, stamped, or
marked in violation of the.prov4slons of this section, and all their contents,
shall be forfeited to the United States. '

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for the Distilling Co.

208 U. S.

hibition against selling, buying, giving, or receiving a receptacle
containing "anything else" than the contents which were
therein when the tax was. paid is as clear as the English language can make it.
The statute being a revenue law should not be strictly construed. United States v. Stowell, 133. U. S. 1, 12..
The construction of these revenue statutes must be such as
is most favorable to their enforcement. 18 Opinions Atty.
Gen. 246, 248.
Even if there is uncertainty as to' the meaning of § 3455,
Rev. Stat., the spirit and purpose of this section, when read in
connection with the revenue laws as a whole, forbid the addition of coloring matter to tAk-paid spirits.
The construction contended for by the Government is in
harmony with that given to other sections of the internal
revenue laws. United States v. Two Bay Mules, 36 Fed. Rep.
84; United States v. Goodrich TransportationCo., 8 Biss. 224;
United States v. Ulrici, 3 Dill. 532.
Where statutes are thus drawn in unqualified terms, courts
have invariably refused to plade a narrow construction upon
them, even though at times a real hardship Was imposed.
The remedy for harsh legislation, it has been wisely declared,
is with the legislature and not With the courts. The very
spirit .and purpose of the revenue laws require that the contWntion of the. Government should be upheld. Dobbins's Distillery v. United States, 96 U. S. 39,5, 401; United States v.
Bayaud, 16 Fed. Rep. 376, 384; United States v. Dobbs et al.,
Fed. Cases No. 14,972; United States v. Fifty Barrels of Whiskey,
Fed. Cases No. 15,091.
Mr. Warwick M. Hough for the A. Graf Distilling Company:
The object of the internal revenue laws being' taxation
rather than regulation, it is manifest that only those changes
in the contents of packages were intended +to be noticed by
the law, the m~king of which subjected the person-making
them to the payment of a special tax; or the making or doing

UNITED STATES v. GRAF DISTILLING CO.
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

of which was specifically prohibited upon the theory that it
might open the door to a fraud.
But, in seeking a forfeiture, or the imposition of fines, penalties, or imprisonment, specific authority therefor must be
found in the law itself, and .such a proceeding cannot be sustained upon the theory that permission for the doing of the
specific act alleged to constitute an offense does not appear
in the law. On the contrary, what is not specifically prohibited by the law is to be understood as being permitted or
intended to be passed unnoticed.
Even though some changes may take place naturally, or
adventitiously in the contents of a cask or package which has
been duly marked, stamped, and branded, as required by law,
no notice is to be taken of such changes unless they are such
as would require a change of marks, stamps, or brands; and
no change in the marks, stamps, or brands is required by law,
except when there is such a change in the contents of the
*package as would subject the person making such change to
the payment of some special tax therefor. United States v*
Thirty-two Barrels of Spirits, 5 Fed. Rep. 188; Three Packages
of Distilled Spirits, 14 Fed. Rep. 569;. United States v. Nine
Casks and Packages; 51 Fed. Rep. 191; United States v. Fourteen
Packages of Whiskey, 66 Fed. Rep. 984; United States v. One
Package of Distilled Spirits, 88 Fed. Rep. 856.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
Other phases of this controversy have appeared in the
courts below and are reported Sub nomine United States v.
Three Packages of Distilled Spirits, in 125 Fe..Rep. 52, and
129 Fed. Rep. 329. After the reversal of the judgment of
forfeiture -nd the granting of a new trial by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, as disclosed by thae reports, the information, was.
amended by making the allegations contained in. the foregoing statement, and the original averment as to placing other

OCTOBER TERM', 1907. 'Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

distilled spirits of a different quality -in the barrels. after being
stamped is not before us.
We are here called upon to determine what is the proper
construction of the language of the statute when it speaks of
selling a barrel and its contents after it has been properly
stamped, and which at the time of sale contained anything else
than the contents which were therein when the. barrel- was
stamped by the revenue officer. Does the addition after such
stamping, oft'burnt sugar or caramel, placed in the barrel for
the sole purpose of. coloring the contents (in this case whiskey),
and without intent to defraud the revenue or any person,
render the seller liable to the penalty provided by the statute,
and the barrel and its. contents liable to forfeiture? This
coloring, matter was not itself taxable. There is no charge
that it is unhealthy, and it is plain that its use defrauds no
one within the legal meaning of that-term. The statute is not
a health law,, nor is its purpose to prevent the coloring of
whiskey before its sale to the consumer. The matter which
was added to the cQntents of the barrel, after it was stamped
and branded, did not increase or decrease the amount of the
tax otherwise payable on the spirits so colored.
The Government, however, contends' that itt is wholly immaterial
whether the coloring matter added is not itself taxable; it is, within the terms of the statute, something "else
than the contents which were" in the barrel when it was lawfully stamped by the officer of the revenue, and if the person,
who adds the coloring matter subsequently sells the barrel'
and contents such act subjects them to forfeiture, and renders
the. person making the sale subject to the penalty named in
the first part of the section. The counsel for the Government
insists that there is no room for construction other than such
as the plain language .of the statute calls for; and it is contended that'to hold otherwise destroys the statute and opens
the door to fraud which. is not easy to detect, and which the,
statute was intended to prevent. In a very careful review of
the various provisions of the internal revenue statute, counsel

UNITED STATES v. GRAF DISTILLING CO.
208 U. S.

205

Opinion of the Court.

for the Government has called attention to many acts which
are forbidden and which, would seem to be innocent, but
which were, nevertheless, thought to be of. such a character
as to open the door for fraud upon the revenue, and hence it is
argued that this addition, of coloring matter was an act which
although it might seem to be innocent in itself, yet nevertheless comes within the plain prohibition of this section, and
effect must be given to that prohibition, because it may tend
to prevent some subsequent fraud, however- harsh or unreasonable the provision might otherwise seem to be. We must
first, however, be satisfied that this alleged total, absolute and
unconditional prohibition was the real intention of Congress,
to be gathered from the language of the section when read in,
connection with the language of the whole statute. There is
no doubt that many, of its provisions are harsh beyond anything known heretofore in our history (United States v. Ulrici,
3 Dill. 532, 539), and yet we cannot persuade ourselves that
theact proved in this case comes'within the law.
The section is one of many dealing with the subject of collecting a revenue from the taxation of the articles therein
mentioned and in the manner therein provided. The aim of
the whole statute is to make all ofthe taxable articles actually
pay the tax, and to that end it prohibits those acts which might
possibly lead to an evasion of the payment of the tax due upon
any taxable article. When, therefore, in the course of the
many provisions for collecting the tax and for preventing any
evasion ofits due payment the statute prohibits the putting
of anything else in the barrel or package, etc., after it has
been lranded or stamped, it seems to us the natural meaning
of the language limits' the addition to anything of a taxable
nature and does not include an article which is not taxable, is
wholly harmless and added for a purpose not illegal or in itself
improper.
We concur, of course, in the rule which has been uphbld in
this-court, that a statute like this one, for the raising of a
revenue, even when accompanied by provisions of a very

206

OCTOBER TERM; 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

highly penal nature, is still to be construed as a whole and in
a fair and reasonable manner, and not strictly in favor of a
defendant. United States v. Stowell, 133 U. S. 1. Construed

under this rule, we are unable to conclude that the section
applies to this case. The language used, when considered in
connection with the whole statute, is not so plain as to preclude
the application of those general rules. of construction of statutes which frequently interpret language in accordance with

what seems to be the real meaning of the legislature, although
not in exact and literal obedience to'the wording of the
law.
We do not think that the opportunities forperpetrating a
fraud upon the revenue are in any way extended by reason
of the addition in question. A liquor dealer having a properly
stamped barrel in his possession might violate the law and
empty the contents of the barrel without destroying the
stamps, and might then dispose of the barrel, so stamped, to
an illicit distiller, who might: then endeavor to perpetrate a
fraud upon the revenue by filling the barrel with non-tax-paid
spirits, but we do not see that the prior addition, as mentioned,

of coloring matter to the contents of the barrel Would aid him
in his attempt, nor would the absence of such matter tend in
any degree to its prevention or detection. It is not the coloring
matter which was added to the contents of the barrel before
they were emptied that would in such case aid the attempted
fraud, for such coloring matter would probably have been
.emptied with the other contents of the barrel The opportunities for fraud commenced at the time the liquor dealer
emptied the contents of the barrel without destroying the

stamp, and that opportunity was not in "the slightest degree
affected by the addition, and the attempted fraud of the
distiller .is not made more easy of accomplishment because of

such addition. We cannot see, therefore, that-any reasonable
* purpose could be attributed to Congress in prohibiting an addition, such as iz charged in this case, and we cannot construe
.the section on the mistaken -theory that though the act was

-UNITED STATES v. GRAF DISTILLING CO.
208 U. S.

207'

Opinion of the Court.

really' innocent, yet it might aid in the evasion of payment
of some. portion of a tax. and hence must -be regarded as prohibited.
The statute in question, although there has been no intent
to'defraud, makes a person violating it liable to the lighter
penalty, while if the intent to defraud be alleged the article is
still liable to forfeiture and the person may be fined a much
larger sum and also imprisoned. On this ground it is contended the statute is intended to meet just such a case as the
one before us, where there was no intent to defraud and where
there was no addition of. anything which was itself taxable,
but where, nevertheless,. something else had been .added after
the st&rnping and branding, which was not a part of the contents of the barrel when it was' so-stamped. It is therefore
.urged that as the section provides for a forfeiture of the article.
and a fine upon the person guilty of the addition, even when
no intent to defraud is alleged or proved, it emasculates 'the
3ection to hold that the addition must be something which
is itself taxable. We do not think so. When there has been.
an addition of anything that was taxable, the statute applies,
althoug.h there was no intention to defraud, while if there were
such intention a much heavier penalty is imposed. 'The two
portions of the section are distinct and each may be enforced,
however harsh the first may appear .to be, when imposed in a
case where the action was really without any intention to defraud the revenue or any person.
It has been held under other sections of this act, somewhat
similar, that the addition 6f water to the contentg of a barrel
or package is no ground of forfeiture. We do not say that the
language is exactly the same, but only that it is somewhat
similar. United States v. Thirty-two Barrels of Distilled Spirits,
5 Fed. Rep. 188; Three'Packages of Distilled Spirits, 14 Fed.
Rep. 569; United States v. Bardenheier 49 Fed. Rep. 846, 948;
United States v. Nine Casks &c., 51 Fed. Rep.. 191. Reference
is made to them in the opinion in this case in 125 Fed. Rep.
52, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U.S.

We think the reasonable construction of this statute requires that the questions submitted should be answered in the
negative. It will be
So certified.

PENN REFINING COMPANY, LIMITED, v. WESTERN
NEW YORK AND PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 27. Argued October 18, 21. 1907.-Decided Jantury 27, 1908.
An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, that carriers not charging for tanks on tank-oil shipments desist from charging for the barrel
on barrel shipments, or else furnish tank cars to all shippers applying
therefor, held, in this case, to be equivalent to a holding that the charge
for the barrel, is not in itself excessive, and therefoi-e, also held, that
barrel-oil shippers who had not demanded tank cars had not been discriminated against, and were not entitled to reparation for the amounts
paid by. them on the barrels.
It is the duty of a connecting carrier on a joint through rate to accept the
cars delivered to it by the initial carrier, and it is not thereby rendered
liable for any -wrongful discrimination of the initial carrier merely becaise of the adoption of a joint through rate, which in itself is reasonable; nor-is such connecting carrier rendered liable for any such wrongful act.of the initial carrier by section eight of the Interstate Commerce
Act.
137 Fed. Rep. 343, affirmed.

THE plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff below, seeks to review a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuitf 137 Fed. Rep. 343, reversing absolutely and, without
allowing a writ of "venire facias de novo," the judgment of

the Circuit Court of the United States"for the Western District

