MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL &c. RY. CO. v. DOUGHTY. 251
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

208 U. S.

took to make a cash entry of the land under the act of 1887,
aa did his neighbor Wiese. All the questions involved in the
Wiese case are present in thip, and, for the reasons given in
the opinion in the former, the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Nebraska in this case must be
Affirmed.

MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL. AND SAULT STE. MARIE
RAILWAY COMPANY v. DOUGHTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 81.

Argued December 17, 1907.O-Decided February 3, 1908.

Under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 152, 18 Stat. 482, granting to railroads
the right of Way through public lands of the United States, such grant
takes effect either on the actual construction of the road, or on the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, after the definite location and
the filing of a profile of the road in the local land office, as provided in
§ 4 of the act; and a'valid homestead entry made after final survey but
before either the construction of the road or the approval by the Secretary
of the profile,'is superior to the rights of the company.' Jameitown &
Northern. Railway Co. v. Jones, 177 U. S. 125, explpined and followed.
107 N. W. Rep. 971, affirmed.

TnE facts are stated in the opinioh.
Mr. Alfred H. Bright for plaintiff in error:
The filing of the plait and the approval thereof by the Secre.tary of the Interior were not. conditions precedent to the
acquisition of a right of way under the act of March 3,
1875.
It was the intention of Congress to prtet the company
as well as the settler from the time of entry. It is assumed
by Congress that the company must of necessity Iocate its

252,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

208 U. S.

line before it could make,-a filing or build its railway, and that
to do this it must have the right to enter and take possession
of the land.
The only location mentioned in the act does not depend
on the map, that is to say, is not made by the map, because
the map, of necessity, follows the location. The map is simply
the evidence of the location made as all locations are made,
and the right of way may be built upon before the map is
approved or even filed. Jamestoum & Northern v. jones, 177
.U.S. 125.
When the company locates its line, it has begun proceedings to acquire the title, which if regularly followed up makes
it the first in right as to any unoccupied Government land.
Railroadv. Alling, 99 U. S. 463.
The court should avoid a too rigid and literal or verbal
construction of the act in question and should hold not. that
the word "thereafter" means only after the last act recited
has been done, but that it applies to the first thing which the
railroad company is required to do, to wit: the location of
its road. It refers to the whole group of acts for securing the
title and, by the doctrine of relation, when the map is approved the title vests in the railroad company as of the date
of the location of its road. St. Pad &c. Ry. v. W. & St. P.
Ry., 112 U. S. 720; Sioux City. &c. Ry. v. C., M. & St.. P. Ry.,
117 U. S. 406; United States v. Detroit Lumber Co., 200 U. S.
321, 334.
The construction of this statute here contended for invokes
the doctrine of relation from the approval of the map to the
inception of the equitable title of the railway company, at
least as early as the seventeenth day of June.' This construction is supported by the Supreme Court of Missouri in the
case of Kinion v. Railway Co., 118 Missouri, 577; 5. C., 24
S. W. Rep. 636; by the Supreme Court of Colorado in Denver
& Rio ;Grande R. R. Co: v. Hanoun, 19 Colorado, 162; S. C.,
34 Pac. Rep. 838, and by the Supreme Court of Utah in Lewis
v. Railway, 54 Pac. Rep. 981.

MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL &c. RY. CO. v. DOUGHTY. 253
208 U. 8.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Counsel is aware.of a line of decisions contrary to the views
here contended for. Red River &c. v. Sture, 20 N. W. Rep.
229; S. C., 32 Minnesota, 95; Spokane &c. Co. v. Zeigler, 61
Fed. Rep. 392; Lilienthal v. So. Cal. Ry. Co., 56 Fed. Rep.
701; Hamilton v. Spokane &c., 28 Pac. Rep. 408; Enoch v.
Spokane &c., 33 Pac. Rep. 966; Denver &c. v. Wilson, 62 Pac.
Rep. 843, discussed and said to be in conflict with Jamestown
& Northern v. Jones, 177 U. S. 125. The latter case discussed,
and distinguished from the present case.
Mr. S. E. Ellsworth, with whom Mr. George W. Soliday was
on the brief, for defendant in error:
It was not-the intention of the framei's of the act of March 3,
1875, that the grant therein mentioned should attach immediately upon the filing of a copy of the railroad company's articles
of incorporation. No railroad company can claim to be a
grantee of a right of way over the public lands until a profile
of its road has been filed and approved as specified in the
act, and after that has been done, the grant is not operative
upon lands to which private rights had previously attached
Enoch v. Spokane Falls & N. Ry., 33 Pac. Rep. 966; Jamestown & N. Ry. Co. v. Jones, 7 N. Dak. 119; S. C., 76 N. NA.
Rep. 227. See also Red River & C. R. Co. v. Sture, 20N. W.
Rep. 229; Spokane Falls & N. Ry. Co. v. Zeigler, 61 Fed. Rep.
392; aff'd 167 U. S. 65;. Washington. & I. Ry. Co. v. Osborn,
160 U. S. 103; Lilienthal v. Southern California Ry. Co., 56
Fed. Rep. 701; Dakota Central R. R. Co. v. Downey, 8 L. D.
115; Circular ol Commissioner Williamson, 2 Copp's Public
Land Laws, 816;. Circularof Commissioner Stockslager, 12 L. D.
423; Denver & R. G. R. Co. v. Wilson, 28 Colorado, 6; S. C.,
62 Pao. Rep. 843; Hamilton v. Spokane Falls & P. Ry. Co., 3
lash. (Idaho) 164; S. C., 28 Pac. Rep. 408; Chicago, K. &
N. Ry. Co. v. Van Cleave, 52 Kansas, 665; S. C., 33 Pac. Rep.
472;" Red Rive &c. R. Co. v. Sture 32 Minnesota; 95; S. C.,
20 N. W. Rep. 229; Jamestown & N. Ry. Co. y. Jones, 7 N. Dak.
119; S. C., 76 N. W. Rep. 227.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.'
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE

208 U. S.

McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the defendant in error %gainst
plaintiff in-error in the District Court of Foster County, State
of North Dakota, to recover compensation for injury to his
land by the construction and operation of the railroad olf the
plaintiff in error.
Defendant in'error has a patent to the land, and the qui.stion is, whether before his settlement under the homestead
laws plaintiff in error acquired a right of way over the land
for its railroad under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 152, 18 Stat.
482.
The trial court held (1) That defendant in error was "the
owner in absolute fee simple of the land" and that his title related back to July 1, 1892, the date of his settlement. (2) That
the railroad "having attempted to acquire a right of way
across said land before and in anticipation of the construction
of its railroad, in compliance with the. provisions of § 4 of the
act of Congress, approved March 3, 1875, the filing with the
register of the district land office,, and approval by; the Secretary of the Interior, of the plat or profile of the section of its
railroad extending across said land, was a condition precedent
to the acquisition or claim on its part :to right of way, and any
title, estate or interest acquired by it in or to said land dates
from said filing and approval." Judgment was entered for
the sum of $1,000 damages and costs, and it was adjudged,
upon paying the sum, the title to the right of way should vest
in the railroad company.
The facts, as recited by the Supreme Court in its opinion,
are as follows:
"On June 25, 1892, the plaintiff's application
to enter the
presented
to
and
accepted by
quarter section in question was
the register and receiver of the United States land office at
Fargo. On July 1, 1892, the plaintiff took up his residence
on the land under his homestead entry and in all things compled with the Federal homestead laws. On November 4,

'MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL &c. RY. CO. v. DOUGHTY 255
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

1899,. a patent conveying the title to him was issued. That
instrument makes no mention of any .easement in favor of
the railroad.
"The defendant railway company was organized in 1891.
Its articles were filed with the Secretary of the Interior on
March 26, 1891, and approved by him on April 15, 1891; and
it thereby became entitled to the benefit of the act.of March 3,
1875.
"In October, 1891, the company made a preliminary survey
of its proposed line of railway across the land-; -and on May 13,
1892, completed its final survey, definitely fixing the line-of
its proposed road over the quarter section. The line as surveyed was marked by stakes driven into' the ground one
hundred feet apart, indicatiig the center of the roadway to
be constructed. The definite location of the route as fixed by
this survey was approved and adopted by the company's
board of directors on June 17, 1892, being eight days. before
the plaintiff made his homestead filing.
"The map or profile of its road as thus definitely located was
filed in the local land office at Fargo on July 20, 1892, ,and
received the. approval . of the Secretary of the Interior on
October 14, 1892. In the latter part of July, 1892, the company constructed its road across the land, on the line as surveyed, and ever since has operated its railway over the roadway
so constructed, using and -appropriating for .that purpose a
strip 200 feet wide, 100 feet on each side of the center of the.
track." * 107 N. W. Rep. 975.
-On these facts the court affirmed, the judgment of the trial
court, basing its decision on Jamestown & Northern Railway
Company v. Jones, 177 U. S. 125. The court said that it was
a necessary inference from that case "that actual construction
is the. only sufficient act, other than compliance with §.4, to
constitute a definite location, and the right of way does not
exist before actual 'construction unless the company's profile
map has been approved by the Secretary, before the settler's
rights attached."

256 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

It will be necessary, therefore, to consider § 4 of the act
and its interpretation in that case.
Section-1 of the act reads: "That the right of way through
the public lands of the United States is hereby granted to any
which shall have filed with the
railroad company . ....
Secretary of the Interior a copy of its articles of incorporation,
and due proofs of its organization, . . . to the extent of
-one hundred feet on each side of the central line of said
road."

Section'4 reads as follows (18 Stat.' 483):
"SEc. 4. 'That any railroad Company desiring to secure the
benefits of this act shall, within twelve months after the location of any section of twenty miles of its road, if the same be
upon surveyed lands, and, if upon unsurveyed lands,. within
twelve months after the suryey thereof by the.United States,
file with .the register of the land office for the district where
such land is located a profile of its road; and upon approval
thereof by the Secretary of the Interior the same shall be noted
upon the plats in said office; and thereafter al such lands over
which such right of way shall pass shall'be disposed of subject
to such right of way: Provided, That if any section of said
road shall not be completed within five years after the location
of said section, the rights herein granted shall be forfeited as
to any such uncomp!eted section of said road."
Did the District.Court-and the Supreme-Court construe this
section correctly? The railroad contends. against an affirmative
answer, 'and urges that it is 'the location of its road which
initiates a railroad company's right,. and which, "if regularly
followed up, makes, it the. first in right -as to any unoccupied
Government land." And this, it is contended, is.a necessary
conclusion from other provisions which' makes the location'.
the first act, the act .from which ' everything is reckoned"
.
the time within which the map. must be filed and the time.
within which the road must be built. And it is further urged
that an entry upon the land to locate the road is as necessary.
as an entry on.the land to build the road, andi being there,'

MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL &c. RY. CO. . DOUGHTY. 257
208 U. B.

opinion of the Court.

the railroad "could not become a trespasser, either as to the
Government or as to the plaintiff-." In further support of the
contention it is pointed out that Congress gave the company.
twelve months after the location within which to make' its
filing, and, therefore, in analogy to preemption and homestead
laws.Congress intended to protect the location during the time
allowed for the filing of the profile or plat. But § 4 gives little
play to construction or the analogies which the company
invoke. That section determines the priority of rights between railroads and settlers' by explicit. language. A right of
way is granted, but to secure it three things are necessary:
(1) location of the road; (2) filing a profile of it in the local

land office; and (3) the approval thereof by' the Secretary of
the Interior, to be noted upoih the plats in the local office. ,It
-is after' these things are done that thestatute fixes the right
of the railroad and -subjects the disposition of the land, under
the land laws, to that right. "And thereafter," are the words
of the statute, "all such lands over whichf such right of way.
shall pass shall be 'disposed of subject to such right*of way."
It.would -be a free construction of these words to give them
the meaning for Which the railroad company contends. They
neither convey an unnatural sense or lead to an.'unnatural
cdnsequence. Unless rights under the act of 1875 and rights"
under the land 'laws were to be kept for an indeterminate time
•in uncertainty and possible conflict, to fix some act or point
of time at which they should attach was -natural, ana to construe. language which is apt and adequate by its sense and
arrangement to express one time to mean another, would be
a pretty free exercise of construction. We admit that the
letter of a statute is not always. adhered to. and words may
be transposed, but the necessity for it must be indicated to
accomplish the purpose of the legislation: There is always a
presumption that the words were intended as written and .in
the order as written.; certainly, when they .expre's a definite
sense which would be changed to another with different and
opposing legal consequences. The railroad company, howVOL. Ccviii-17:
'

258

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. B.

ever, contends for that result. We have stated its contentions,
and, it is urg6d, if there is difficulty in accepting them it arises
"from a too rigid and literal or verbal construction" of § 4;
"that the word 'thereafter' means only after the last act
recited has been done. Whereas it is perfectly legitimate to
consider that the term 'thereafter', applied to the first thing
which the railroad company was required to do, to wit, the
location of its road. That it refers.to the whole group of acts
-for securing the title, and that by the doctrine of relation
when the 'map is approved the title vests in the railway company as of the date of the location of its road." And' this, it
is further irged, is the rule applied to preemptors on the public
lands and which this court has applied to some railway land
grants. The contention is supported by.Kinion v. Railway Co.,
118 Missouri, 577; Lewis v. Railway (Utah), 54 Pac. Rep.
981, and, it is urged, by Denver & Rio Grande R. .R. Co. V.
Hanoun, 19 Colorado, 162. It is opposed by Lilienthal v. So.
Cal. Ry. Co., 56 Fed. Rep. 701; Larson v. Oregon Co., 23
Pac. Rep. 974; Hamilton v. Spokane, 28 Pac. Rep. 408; Eno~h
v. Spokane, 33 Pac. Rep. 966; Denver &c. v. Wilson, 62 Pac.
Rep. 843. The simple weight of opinion is against the contention of the railroad, and its counsel meets the fact squarely,
and says that. those cases "are in their, broad scope in clear
and unmistakable conflict with the fundamental. principle on
-which" Jamestown & Northern Railway Co. v. Jones, 177
U. S. 125, was decided, "and rest upon the hard and fixed
proposition, that no railroad company under this act [act of
1875] could get any right in the land until its map was approved." But counsel, while invoking the "fundamental principle" of Jametown- & Northern Railway Co. . v. Jones,
*attacks the construction of the statute there made and the
reasoning which led us to the principle.
That case decided three propositions: (1) That a railroad
company becomes specifically a"grantee, under the act of .1875
by filing its articles-of incor poration and due proof of its
organization under the same with the Secretary of the Interior.

MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL &c. RY. CO. v. DOUGHTY. 259
208 U. 8.

Oipinion of the Court.

(2) That the lands granted were identified by a definite location of the right of way, and, sustaining the contention of the
railroad that definite location could be made by actual construction of the road against the decision of the lower courts
that .suCh location could only be made by a profile map of the
road, we said that the contention gives practical operation to
the statute and enables the railroad company to secure the
grant by An actual construction of the road, or, in advance
of construction, by filing a map as provided in §4. (3) Actual
construction of the road is certainly unmistakable evidence
and notice of appropriation.
This, it is now contended* or intimated, reads something
into the statute which is not there, and that the Jamestown
and Northern Railway Company. "could only maintain its
claim to right of way upon the same construction of the statute
as that for which the plaintiff in error contends." In other
words, location initiated the company's right, and any other
view will put Jamestown & Northern Railway Company v.
Jones in opposition to the decisions in railway land grant cases.
The latter proposition was disposed of in the case. The answer
to the other is contained in the words of the statute, and the
essential difference between a mere'location movable at the
will of the company and the'actual construction of the road.
necessarily fixing its position ind consummating the purpose
for which the.grant of a right of way was given.
Judgment affirmed.

