THE SISSETON AND WAHPETON INDIANS.

561

Opinion of the Court.

208 U.

UNITED STATES v. SISSETON AND WAHPETON BANDS
OF SIOUX INDIANS.
SISSETON AND WAHPETON BANDS OF SIOUX INDIANS
v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT'OF CLAIMS.
Noa. 338,. 339.

Argued January 7, 8, 1908.-Docided February 24. 1908.

While there are no general rules of law determining what payments are
chargeable against Indian annuities, when annuities which have been
confiscated on account of an outbreak of the annuitant Indians are restored, sums paid by the Government for the support of the annuitants
on account of their ddstitution must be taken into account, and in this
ease the restored annuities are also chargeable with the amount of depredations during the outbreak for which the Indians were liable under a
treaty made subsequently to- that granting the annuity and before the.
outbreak.
This court affirms the judgment of the Court of Claims adjusting the claim
of the Sisseton and Wahpeton Bands of Sioux Indians for their confiscated
annuities restored under acts of Congress.and in regard to which jurisdiction was conferred by the act of June 21, 1906, c. 3504, 34 Stat. 372.
42 C.Cls. Rep. 416, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
*Mr.George M. Anderson, with whomMr. Assistant Attorney

General Thompson was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. William H. Robeson and Mr. Marion Btdler, with whom
Mr. Charles A. Maxwell, Mr. George S. Chase and Mr. JosiahM.

Vale were on the brief, for the Sisseton and Wahpeton Sioux.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a claim for annuities granted by the treaty of July 23,
1851, 10 Stat. 949, but declared forfeited by the act of February 16, 1863, c. 37, 12 Stat. 652, in consequence of a great
outbreak and massacre by the Indians. The claim is made
VOL.

ccvui-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.-

under the Indian appropriation act of June 21, 1906, c. 3504,
.34 Stat. 325, p. 372, the material part of which is as follows:
"That jurisdiction be, and hereby is, conferred upon the
Court of Claims in Congressional case numbered twenty-two
thousand five hundred and twenty-four, on file in said court,
entitled 'The Sisseton and Wahpeton bands of Sioux Indians
against the United States,' to further receive testimony, hear,
determine, 'and render final judgment in said cause, for balance, if any is found due said. bands, with right of appeal as
in other cases, for any annuities which would be due to said
bands of Indians under the treaty of July twenty-third, eighteen hundred and fifty-one (Tenth Statutes at Large, page nine
hundred and forty-nine), as if the Act of forfeiture of the
annuities of said bands, approved February sixteenth, eighteen
hundred and sixty-three, had not been passed; and to ascertain
and set off against the amount found to be due to said Indians,
if any, all payments or other provisions of every name or nature made to or for said bands by the United States, or to or
for any members thereof, since said Act of forfeiture was passed,
which'are properly chargeable against unpaid annuities.
"Upon tho rendition 'of such judgment and in conformity
therewith, the Secretary, of the Interior is hereby directed to
determine which of said Indians now living took part in said
outbreak and to prepare a roll of the persons entitled to share
in said judgment by placing on said roll the names of all living
members of the said bands residing in.
the United' States at the
time of the passage of this Act, excluding therefrom the names
of those found to have participated in the outbreak; and he is
directed to distribute the proceeds of such judgment, except
as hereinafter provided, per capita to the persons borne on
the said roll; and the court shall consider the evidence now on
file in said cause in connection with such other evidence as
may hereafter be adduced therein."
The act of June 21, 1906, was passed in pursuance and' extension of an earlier act of March 3, 1901, c. 832, 31 Stat. 1058,
p. 1078, which gave the Court of Claims full jurisdiction' to

THE SISSETON AND WAHPETON 1NDIANS.
208 U. S.

563

Opinion of the Court.

report to Congress what members of these bands of Indians
were not concerned in the depredations of the outbreak, and
to report what annuities would now be due to the loyal mem-.
bers if the act of forfeiture had not been passed. The court Was
"further authorized to further consider, ascertain, and report:
to Congress what lands, appropriations, payments, gratuities,
or other provisions have been made to or for said bands or to
any of the members thereof since said Act of forfeiture was
passed." "And if said court shall find that said bands preserved
their loyalty to the United States, they shall ascertain and state
the amount that would be due to said Indians on account of
said annuities had said Act of Congress of February sixtdenth,
eighteen hundred and sixty-three, not been passed, stating in
connection therewith what credits shall be charged against
said annuities on account of the lands, appropriations, payments, gratuities or other provisions as hereinbefore stated."
A petition was filed, but the court found that it was impossible
to determine what members of these bands remained loyal to
the United States; but that a large majority, if not all, aided
and abetted the massacres and depredations. 39 C. CIs. Rep.
172. Thereupon the later act was passed, referring to the
above petition, and the present' supplemental petition was
filed.
The Court of Claims stated the account and ordered a judgment for the balance, from which both parties appeal.

The

account isas follows:
CREDITS.

By fifty installments of $73,600, treaty July 23, 1851 ...... $3,680,000 00
By amount allowed to chiefs for' removal and subsistence by
. said treaty ..........................................
275,000 00
By amount allowed to chiefs for manual labor schools, etc...
30,000 00

$3,985,000 0
DEBIT.

Item.

1. To twelve installments of annuity appropriated under the.treaty of 1851 (10 Stat. L.,
949) prior to. outbreak, less 3104.66 returned to the Treasury (8883,200-104,06),

OCTOBER TERM' 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

Amount credits carried forward
3,985,000 00
Item.
5883,095.34, less 5122,509.12 appropriated
but not paid at date of forfeiture ......... $760,586 22
(See p. 17, Senate Doe. 68, for various
statutes.)
2. To amount paid to the chiefs for removal and
subsistence, and for manual labor schools
under the treaty of 1851 .................
305,000 00
3. To amount appropriated and unpaid at date
of forfeiture act, but forfeited and afterwards expended for damages growing out of
the outbreak of 1862-3 (12 Stat. L., 652)... 122,59 12
4. To one-half of $100,000 advance annuity appropriated February 16, 1863 (12 Stat. L,
652) .....
.........................
50,000. 00
5. To one-half amount paid to scouts and soldiers of the four bands (26 Stat. L., 1038; 27
Stat. L., 624; 28 Stat. L., 889) ........... 103,176 65
6. To one-half amount expended for damages
and for support, but not for removal ...... 807,824 71
(See p. 20, Senate Doe. 68, for various
statutes.)
7. To amount paid for support, etc., under the
treaty of February 19, 1867 ..............
464,953 40
(See p. 17, Senate Doec. 68, for various
statutes making the appropriations.)
8. To amounts paid under agreement of Decem581,978 37
ber 12, 1889 ...........................
$3,196,028 47
Leaving a balance due of ........................

$788,971 53

The amount of the unpaid annuities is not in dispute, but
the questions raised by the appeals concern the items of set-off
and involve the principle upon which they are to be charged.
The Indians contend that only sums specially charged by Congress against annuities come into the account, while the United States goes to the opposite extreme. We agree with the
Court of Claims that the contention of the Indians, at least,
must be rejected, for the reason stated by it, that if it was
correct Congress did not need the help of the court; the figures
were patent. Furthermore the language of the act implies that
the court is called upon for an active exercise of judicial reason

THE SISSETON AND WAHPETON INDIANS.
208 U. S.

566

Opinion of the Court.

and to do something that has not yet been done. It is "to set
off" all payments to said bands or to any members thereof since
the acts of forfeiture which are properly chargeable against the
unpaid annuities. The result is assumed to be uncertain, as
the judgment is to be for the balance, if any is found due.
There are no general rules of law established for deciding
what payments properly are chargeable against Indian annuities. The fact that payments of certain kinds, or gratuities,
have been granted in time of peace in addition to annuities is
not conclusive. There had been an Indian war. The United
States in passing these acts was doing what it pleased.' In the
earlier statute it plainly indicated that the most sweeping deductions, including gratuities, -were to be made from its possible
bounty. In th3 later one it qualified the deduction of payment
by the words "which are properly chargeable against said unpaid annuities," it is true. But the careful particularity of the
direction to set-off "all payments or other provisions of every
name and nature," even if qualified as to the bands as well as
to the particular members to whom some payments properly
left out of consideration had been made, shows that large setoffs still were expected. It is said that the court was to proceed
tas if the act of forfeiture had not'been passed." But that was
only in ascertaining the amount of annuities that would be due
in that case and in rendering a judgment that otherwise would
be unauthorized. Those words do not require the court to treat
all payments upon the fiction that nothing had happened, or
to give them a different complexion from that which they had
when they were made. Common sense, the then recent decision of the Court of Claims as to the general conduct of the
bands and the position of the words in the section, show that
they could have had no such intent.
It follows from what we have said and from a consideration
of the nature of thepayments and the circumstances, which the
Court of Claims rightly considered, as well as from the treaties
and acts of Congress, that the claimants properly were charged
with their share of payments on account of depredations. On

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

general grounds of fairness such payments are properly chargeable against the sum that the United States by its condonation
consented to pay. Congress as well as the court is of that
opinion, for the appropriation of the annuities to the indemnification of persons .whose property had been destroyed by the
Indians was declared just; and two-thirds of the sums payable
then and the next year were applied to that end by the forfeiture act of February 16, 1863. 12 Stat. 652 In this connection the act is as important as ever it was. See further act
of March 3, 1885, c. 320. 23 Stat. 344. Again, by a treaty of
June 19, 1858, article 6, 12 Stat. 1037, 1039;-later than that
granting the annuities, which was made in 1851, the Indians had
agreed that in case of depredation it should be paid for out of
their moneys in the hands of the United States. The effect of
this treaty as against those breaking it is not to be got rid of
by digfiifying their acts with the name of war, while at the
same time the court is asked to treat all that was done by the
United States as if there had been unbroken peace. The successful party to a war is apt to demand indemnity, and when
that party is doing an act of grace and restoring annuities forfeited because of damage done it is absurd to ask that it should
leave consideration of the charge for damage out of account.
Some further arguments of detail may be passed unnoticed by
reason of the general point of view from which we regard the
case. We may add here that, as we do not go behind the findings of fact, McClure v. United States, 116 U. S. 145; District of
Columbia v. Barnes, 197 U. S. 146, 150, there has been some
waste of -energy in arguing from public documents of which
we are asked-to take notice, and that we see no reason to revise the finding that the claimants should be charged with half
the total payments of which their share is to be set off.
We pass to the items of the account. Item 1 of the debits is
admitted to be correct, except that the court twice deducted
$104.66, once expressly, the second time in the'$122,509.12 from
the gross debits, $883,200. The item should be $760,690.88.
We perceive no reason for questioning item 2.

THE SISSETON AND WAHPETON INDIANS.
208 U. S.

567

Opinion of the Court.

Items 3 and 4 are disposed of by what we have said. The
United States admits a repetition of the mistake mentioned
under item 1 in item 4.
Item 5 is disputed only as charging one-half instead of onesixth, alleged to be the fair proportion, upon evidence properly
not reported, and found by the Court of Claims to be untrustworthy. As we have said, we see no reason for not accepting
the conclusion of the Court of Claims.
Item 6 needs mention only because it embraces expenditures
for support, which, it is said, by the general practice would be
granted alongside of the annuities were they running. The
question of damages has been disposed of: The other will be
dealt with in connection with item 7.
Item 7 is one of the chief objects of the claimants' attack.
By the treaty of February 19, April 22, 1867, 15 Stat. 505, the
claimants ceded rights of way to the United States, and the
United States, in consideration of the cession, the services of
the friendly bands, and the forfeiture of their annuities, purported to set aside for them certain reservations. This was by
Articles 2-4. Article 6 was as follows: "And further, in consideration of the destitution of said bands of Sisseton and
Warpeton Sioux, parties hereto, resulting from the confiscation
of their annuities and improvements, it is agreed that Congress
will, in its own discretion, from time to time, make such appropriations as may be deemed requisite to enable-said Indians
to return to an agricultural life," etc. Payments under Article 6 make up item 7. It is argued that the Indians already
owned the land set aside for them, that there was no consideration for their grant except the promise in Article 6, that the
destitution of the Indians was not a consideration to the United States and hence again that the promise should be set
against the cession and that they ought not to be charged with
this sum. But without -going outside the record for other
matters of dispute, it is enough to say that the question is not
as to the facts, but as to the assumption and purport of the
document. The treaty makes the assignment of the reserva-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

tion, be it better or worse, the consideration for the cession by
the Indians, and the agreement in Article 6 a gratuitous promise
induced by consideration of the Indians' want. The words
"in consideration of" do not import a technical consideration,
such as is needed in a private bargain not under seal, but the
inducement that led Congress to make the promise. It indicates the .only inducement, and a different one cannot be substituted in its place, on the ground that assumpsit would -not
lie on the one named.
By the words of the treaty then the sixth article promised
the payments in question because the claimants were in want
because their annuities had been confiscated. Or, striking out
the middle term and looking to the result, the payments were
made because the annuities had been confiscated; that is to
say, so far as appears, they would not have been made except
for that cause. But, if so, then, when the annuities are restored,
-the sums. paid on the footing that the annuities were lost must
be taken into the account. It does not matter whether the
Indians had a demand in conscience against the United States
for their cession or not, or whether or not such demands were
settled by subsequent treaties; the sum stood on its own ground
and must be dealt with on the footing on which it was paid.
If further argument is necessary one might be drawn from the
reference to House Document 1953, Fiftieth Congress, First
Session, in Article 3 of the agreement of December 12, 1889,
ratified by the act of March 3, 1891, c. 543, ยง 26, 26 Stat. 989,
pp. 1035, 1037, an act not repealed by those under which this
suit is brought. But as this document is not made part of the
report and is said not to have been before the Court of Claims,
we do not care to invoke for this or other purposes a help that
the decision does not seem to us to need.
As to the payments for support charged in item 6, they are
to be considered in the light of the act of forfeiture and the
attitude of Congress indicated in Article 6 of the treaty just
discussed. The Indians were in the position of people having
re.ognized claim. They were dependents because of the

THE SISSETON AND WAHPETON INDIANS.
208 U. S.

569

Opinion of the Court.

forfeiture. Payments made for their support in such circumstances cannot be compared to those that may have been made
to tribes in good standing. It is mere conjecture to inquire
whether similar allowances might have been granted if they
had kept the peace. They were made in fact because by reasbn
of the forfeiture the Indians must be supported or starve. The
considerations that apply to Article 6 apply, although it must
be admitted less strongly, to other payments for support and
the like. The act of 1901, 31 Stat. 1058, p. 1078, cannot be
left wholly out of sight in construing that of 1906, and-as has
been said, that act contemplated that every gratuity should
be brought in. We are not prepared to overrule the decision
of the Court of Claims on this point.
IItem 8 is not disputed. There are some further matters of
detail which we do not discuss, but have not failed to consider.
Upon the whole case and in view of the cross appeal of the
United States we are of opinion that under the judgment below the claimants came off as well as they reasonably could
expect. If we were to follow the claimants outside the record,
some of the questions raised by the United .States might be
serious, but as the case stands we are of opinion that the judgment should be affirmed, with the correction mentioned under
item 1.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissents.

