OCTOBER TERM, 190 .'

880

Argument for Petitioner.

208 U. S.

ATLANTIC TRUST COMPANY v. CHAPMAN, RECEIVER
OF THE WOODBRIDGE CANAL AND IRRIGATION
COMPANY.,
CERTIORARI TO THI, CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 109.

Argued Janua:r'16, 18, 1908.-Dcided Febn ary K'1908.

appointed and qualifies, cqmes under the sole
A receiver, as soon as he -is
direction of the court and his engagements are those of the court, and the
liabilities heincurs are chargeable upon the property and not, against.the
parties at whose instance he was appointed and who have no authority
over him and cannot control his actions.
Wh4ile cases may arisein which it may be equitable to charge the parties at
whose instance a receiver is appointed with the expenses of the receivership, in the absence of special. circumstancei the general. rule, which is
applicable in this case, is that such expenses are a charge upon the property or fund without any personal liability therefor on'the part of those
parties; and the mere inadequacy. of the fund to meet such expenses does
not render a plaintiff who. has not been. guilty of any.irregularity liable
therefor.
145 Fed. Rep. 820, reversed.
TUE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Stanley W. Deter, with whom Mr. Eduwiard B; Whitney
was on the brief, for petitioner: '
.The Circuit' Court was without power to cQmpelthe complainant to pay the deficit .of a receivership which 'was in all
respects regular, after final judgment in complainant'slfavor.

There is no,inherent, power inany court to award costs, in
the absence of statute, and where costs are authorized by statute, they follow the judgment: and aretaxed to the losifig.
party, as was done in this case. Wllac v. Sheldon. 76 N. W.
re Comniaioes, 20 App. Div. 27
Rep. 418 (Nebraska); in.
(New York); Iz re City o B.O klyn, 148 N. Y. 107.
A Priority is given to the ccmpensation of ieceivers and 'their

solicitors over receivp"s certificates, and such allowances have

ATLANTIC TRUST CO.,. CHAPMAN.
208 U.S.

381

Argument for. Petitioner..

sometimes been called "costs 6f the proceeding to be paid out
of the fund." Petersburg Savings Co. v. Dellatorre, 70 Fed.
Rep. 643; Radford v. Foliom, 55 Iowa, 276. "
There is no suggestion, however, that they can betaxed
against a successful party, and in the present case, the receiver
and his solicitors have been paid.
The receiver's counsel has in prior arguments urged certain
provisions of the California Code. It. seems unnecessary for
us to discuss these, since the equity practice of the Federal
courts is uniform throughout the United States and does not
in .any respect follow that which 'prevails in the various localities. 'Foster's Fed. Prac. (3d ed.), pp. 10-12, 120-121;
Boyle v' Zacharie, 6 Pet. 648, 658; First National Bank v. Ewing, 103 Fed. Rep. 168, .194; Kirby v. Lake Shore R. R., 120
U. S. .130, 137; Goodyear Co. v. Dancel, 119 Fed. Rep. 692;'
Phinizy v. Augusta Railway Co., 98 Fed. Rep. 776. Even in.
common law actions costs are not governed by provisions of
state legislition. United Staies v. Treadwell, 15 Fed. Rep. 532.
Prior to the decision of this case the only authority directly
in point *as that approved and followed by Judge Morrow.
See Farmers' Loan & Trust -Co. v. Oregon Paciw R. R. Co.,
31 Oregon, 237, fully sustaining petitioner's contention.
The receiver is not the agent of the plaintiff in the litigation
nor does the plaintiff have any control or authority over him.
He is agent and executive officer of the court which takes
possession. of. the property which is the subject of dispute,.
and controls and operates it 'for the use and benefit, not of
either party to the controversy, but of whomsoever in the end
may be concerned in its disposition. His acts and possession
are the acts of the court lnd the parties to the litigation have
no control over his actions nor any power to determine what
liabilities he may incur.
. The 'receiver's employs must look to the property in the
court's hands and the income therefrom for the payment of
their co'mpensation.. Their wagesare not costs of the litigation
in any sense, and, though incurred during the pendency of the

.302.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argum.

of Respondent.

208 U. S.

suit, they are not incurred in the suit. They are not expenses
of either side of the controversy and are not costs or fees
which can be charged .against -the successful party to the litigation. Farmers',Loan & Trust Co. v. Ordegn Pacific R. R:
Co., 31 Or gon, 237. And see Booth V. Clark, .17 How.. 322,
331; Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203, 218; Falbrook IrrigationDis-'
trict v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112.
'This court has always maintained the position that a ieceiver isan-agent of the court and derives no authority from
the act of the parties at whose suggestion or 'by whose consent
he is appointed. Chicago Union Bank v. Kansas City Bank,
136 U. S. 223, 236; Quincy, Missouri & Pacific R. R. Co. v.
Humphreys, 145 U.. S. 82, 97. The.lower Federal courts have
maintained the same doctrine. Texas & St. Louis Ry. Co.. v.
Rust, 17 Fed. Rep. 275, 282; Central Trust Co.- v. Wabash,
St. Louis & Pacific Railway Co., 23 Fed. Rep. 863;.New York,
P. & 0 Ry. Co. v. New York, L. E. & W. Ry. Co., 58 Fed. Rep.
268,278.
The only pledge that the court made, or could lawfully
make. was that the fund in court would be impressed *ith a'
paramount lien in favor of the receiver's creditors, and that it
would enforce such lien against the property and parties as
a condition of releasing the' property. Taft, J., 58 Fed. Rep.
15. See also Beach on Receivers' § 416; M eyer v. Johnson, 53
Alabama, 237, 348, 349; Turner v. Peoria &c., 95 Illinois, 134,145;. Kneek
v. American Loan Co., 136 U. S. 89, 98.
Mr Edgar C. Chapman,respondent, in. person
The Circuit' Court has power to compel. petitioner t pay the,
deficit of the receivership.
In railroad receiverships (and the case at bar is similar) it
has been uniformly held that the courts have the "power to
decree reimbursement to the receiver out' 6f the income of the
property and if that is not sufficient then- out of the 'corpus,
before payment of .the mortgage !debt is allowed.
, The theory upon which courts have thus proceeded is -that

ATLANTIC TRUST CO. v. CHAPMAN.
208 U.S.

363

Argument of Resaondent.

the court has pledged its faith to the payment of the expenses
of the receivership. As the court has no property of its own
with which to operate the railroads, it must, in order to keep
faith with those whom it employs,-redeem itspledge by either
resorting to the fund brought into court orelse to the party at
whose instance and upon whose showing it was.induced to
undertake the management of the property. Thins power is
inherent. It'does not depend upon consent or arise from-contract. Alderson on Receivers, §332.
If a court has the power .to redeem some of its pledges by
resorting to the fund in its possession for that purpose, it has
also the power to redeem all of its pledges by resorting to the
party that induced it to appoint the receiver, assuming that
such party is able to respond.
Property cannot be adiiinistered by the court and kept a
"going concern," without expense.
The court must not knowingly order expenses to be incurred
that it has no intention of seeing paid.
When the court places a receiver in charge of property on
represeihtations made to it'by a complainant, with orders to
contract such indebtedness as appears needful, it is to be pre-.
sumed that reliance shall be placed upon, the court for the
payment of this indebtedness.
Ordinarily the fund is sufficient to-protect the court and its
officers and employds, and the court- is not compelled to pro-'
*ceed further. And this is why there is a dearth of decisions on
the precise question presented by the case at bar, namely,
the power. of the court to. look beyond the property adminis'tered upon where it fails, or proves insufficient to the complainant to make up the deficiency.
That the court has this power in a.proper case, and the case
at bar is such an one, there is no doubt. See Knickerbocker v.
McKindley C. &. Al. Co., 67, I1. App. 295; Pacific Bank v.
' Madera FryitCo., 124 California, 525; Ephraim v. Pacific Bank,
129 California, 589; also cases cited by Judge Ross in Chapman v. 'Atlaiic Trust Co., 119 Fed. Rep. 270. Farmers' Loan

OCTOBER :TERM 1907.

Opi ion Of the Court.

208 U.S.

(o. v.Oegon Pac flc R. R. Co., 31 Oregon, 237, discussed and distinguished.

.&

T',t

MR., JUSTICE HAkAN delivered the opinion of the court.'
The principal question in this case-now before us upon

wit of certiorari for the review of a final order of the Circuit
.Court bf Appeals for the Ninth Circuit-is 'stated by counsel.
to be this: Is a complainant, who has in good faith prosecuted
a suit upon a good ciuse of action, and upon whose application.the court has, properly appointed a receiver, anid -who
obtains.-a decree. fully establishing his rights, nevertheless*
•persqally responsible for a deficiency caused.by the failure
of the property which is the subject of the suit tnou

to cover the alowancs made by the court to the receiver
ig

dn

his -counsel, and the, expenses which- the' receiver, without.
boecial request of',the complainant'in any instance, had in-

curred?'
The Woodbridge Canal and: Irrigation Company, a corpora-.
tion of California,. executed July, 17, 1891,.a mortgage. conveying.all its property and 'franchises to the 'Atlantic Trust Company,-'a New York corporation,'in. trust to secure- certain bonds,
"with interest coupons attached, issued by the mortgagor company for. the purpose of raising money to fully complete and
equip itscanal and headworks, and of. payiig its indebtedness
then existing or to be subsequently incurred. . The bond6 were
made payable with interest semi-annually at theoffice of, the
T.rust Company:in the city of New York.
In the event of- default in the payment of semi-annual interest zon the bonds for .six -months, or of any. tax -or assessment'for the same period, the trustee and .its successors were
authorized, on ihe, written request of the' majority of the
h1ders-of the. outstanding bonds, or, if the principal of the
bonda shall be. due; .upon the 'request 'of the holde'rs of out-.
standing bonds .to take 'actual posession of the.'iortgaged
property., and hy .hemselves 'or agents hold, ite.and enjoy

ATLANTIC TRUST CO. v. CHAPMAN.
208 U.:&.

365

Opinion of the Court.

the same, and from time to time make repairs, replacements,
alterations, additions and improvements as fully as. the company might have done before such entry" and receive all tolls,
income, rent issues and .profits' arising from the., property.
The trustee and its successor or successors were authorized,
.on such .default, .to sell the mortgaged property at public
auction, after at least two months' notice, and execute to the
purchaser or purchasers.a deed. in fee simple, or otherwise, for
all the right, title, interest and estate reversionary or in possession which they might be entitled to receive, have or hold of
the company' such sale to ie a complete bar against the company, its successors or' assigns, and all persons claiming from
or under it.
The mortgage made provision as to the disposal of moneys
received from tolls, income,, profits, etc., and provided that
"nothing herein shall be construed as limiting the right of the
trustee to apply to any competent court for a decree of foreclosure and. sale under this indenture, or for the usual relief
in such proceedings, and the said trustee, or its successor, may,
in its discretion, so proceed.."
The Canal and Irrigation Company, having made default in
the payment.of the principal and .interest due on its bonds, its
board, of directors, by formal action, recognized their. inability
to meet its obligations, and requested the trustee to bring the
present suit for the foreclosure of the mortgage, and enforce the
payment of. the principal and interest of -the bonds. The
bringing of the suit was also' in conformity with the written
request of the owners and holders .of fifty-five of the outstand-.
ing bonds,. who expressed. their election. and option that the
principal of. the -bonds should forthwith become due and
payable;
-The bill, filed by the Trust Company prayed: 1. That a receiver be appointed totake charge of'the mortgaged property
and to maintain and operate the canals pending the suft and
ufitil sale under a judgment of foreclosure. 2. That the court
ascertain the number and amount. of.. outstandinig bonds, fix

I8

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U 8.

the, compensation of the receiver and his attorney, and that
the plaintiff have judgment against, the Canal and irrigation
Company, for the amount due. for principal, and interest on
the bonds, and for. attorney's fee, trustee's commissions, costa
and expenses of the suit. 3. That, the mortgaged property be
sold at public auction,. and that out of the proceeds the expenses of sale, costs of suit, trustee"s commissions and counsel
fees be'paid,. the balance to be applied in payment of outstanding bondsa
The court, on motion of the Trust Company, the Canal and
Irrigation Company appearn'g and consenting thereunto, appointed E. C. Chapman receiver of the mortgaged 'property,
with authority.to take possession of it. The receiver was empowered by the order of court to continue the operation of
the main' and branch canals of the mortgagor company in the
usual and ordinary way as the same were then operated, discharging, so far as practicable, contracts for water supplies entered into'by the company, collecting rents, tolls, and moneys
payable under water contracts, keeping the property in good
condition and repair, employing needful agents and servants
at such compensation as'he deemed reasonable, paying -for
needful labor, supplies and materials as might seem .to him
to be necessary and proper in the exercise of a sound discretion,
"with leave to apply to the court from time to time as he may
be advised for' instructions in the prelises." "He shall," the
order proceeded, "do whatever may be needful to preserve
and maintain the corporate franchises of said defendant corporation and its rights to the use of ihe watet and all its property, until final judgment 'in this action, and to..defray the.
necessary and proper expenses incident thereto." The above
order was made. October 3, 1894.
.In' the progress of the cause -the receiver, upon his own
'motion and not, so far as*, the record shows, by direction of
the. plaintiff, applied to the court and .obtalned its authority
to 'borrow money and isue certificates, .which were. used by
•him in the operation of the property, paying debts, etc.

ATLANTIC TRUST CO. v. CHAPMAN.
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Certain' parties were permitted to intervene and the litigation lingered until September 18, 1897,' when a decree of foreclosure and sale was entered, nearly three years after the
receiver was appointed. There was-great difficulty in effecting
a sale, partly because of the washing away of a dam. Finally,
a bid of $21,000 by one Thompson, acting on behalf of the
receiver and his attorneys, was accepted. -That amount was
just enough to cover the fees of the receiver and his counsel
and the expenses of the sale and to make a small pro rdta payrnent on the. accrued interest on receiver's certificatks. This
left unpaid all other expenses and. certificates of the' receiver.
The sale was confirmed August 15, 1898, and the commissioner
was directed to deliver a deed for the. property.
The order confirming-the sale directed the clerk of the court
..to report the balance remaining unpaid on account of 'the fees
of officers or appointees of the court, or of advances made by
them, and on account of receiver's certificates, time checks
or other expenses of -the receiver's administration. The order
also directed the receiver tW render an account of. his receipts,
disbursements and expenses in the management and care of
the property between the date of the decree of foreclosure and
the date of the sale and transfer of possession.
The clerk made the required report, from which it appeared
that the proceeds 'of sale, -$21,000, were absorbed by these
claims: Compensation of receiver, $9,000; receiver's attorneys,
$9,000, and fees of coinmissioner, 'master, advertising, etc.,
$3,000. He further reported that of the amounts found due
by the decree of foreclosure of September 18, 1897, there remained unpaid, on the following accouhts, these sums: Receiver's certificates, $12,292.47; receiver, for advance made by
'him, care and management'of'property, $3,105.72; time checks
issued by receiver, $5,728.89; work done for receiver, $2,269.85;
expenses of operating canal system, $5,728.54; other sums,
$13,723.49; total, $42,848.96.
On the third of August, 1899, nearly five years after the
appointment of the receiver, 'he filed his final report and peti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

tion, in which he prayed that the. balance due him on account
of his receipts and disbursements after, the making of the
decree, also the balance due to his employds after the making
of the report upon which the decree was based, and the compensation to be allowed to him and his counsel since the date
of the decree, be fixed and established by the court, and judgment entered "against the plaintiff in this cause for the full
amount of the deficiency hereinbefore stated, with the sums
so allowed for services and expenses since the date of said
decree, and that the proper process of'court be issued for the
collection thereof from plaintiff, and that when collected the
same be paid into court to be by the court disbursed to the
several persons entitled thereto."
The petition alleged that the Canal and Irrigation Company.
was insolvtnt and unable to respond to any judgment for deficiency that had been or might be entered in the cause. Upon
this report and petition being filed the Circuit Court 'brdered
the Trust Company to show cause why the amount due the
receiver and his employ6s should not be settled and allowed,
and wy judgment for such deficiency should not, when as,certained, be entered against that company and it be required
to pay the same into court.
The-Trust Company appeared and demurred to the receiver's
report and motion for judgment against it. The Circuit Court,
after hearing, sustained the demurrer and discharged the rule
to-show. cause. Upon appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals
the order of the Circuit Court was reversed, the former court
being of opinion that the Trust Company was liable to a personal judgment for the alleged deficiency. Chapman v. Atlantic
Trust Co., 119 Fed. Rep. 257.
The grounds upon which .the Circuit Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals; respectively, proceeded appear in the margin.'
I CIRC1I1T COURT--JUDGE MonRow: "I am of the opinion that provisions
should have been made when this suit Was commenced, or at the time when.
the Receiver. was appointeA, for the -payment of or security for the amount
of his expenses, and for the redemption of whatever certificates might be

ATLANTIC TRUST CO.v. CHAPMAN.
208 U.S.

389

OpIniotk of the court.

Upon the return of the case to the Circuit Court the Trust
Company filed its answer to the receiver's .petition, and the
cause was submitted, by consent, as upon bill and answer,.on
issued by him,- in the event 'that the proceeds of the sale of the property
should prove insufficient. But such provision wan not made at the time by
the court, and I am of the opinion that the court is without authority to do
so now. In Farmers' Loan Co. v. Oregon Pacifw: R. R. Co., 31 Oregon, 237,
this question was fully considered, and the views there' expressed are in.
accord with my opinion in the present gase."
CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS-JUDGz Ross, 119 Fed. Rep. 268: "Those
who render services in and about the receivership are. justly entitled to be
paid the fair value of such services, and when the issuance of'receiver's certificates becomes necessary for the proper preservation of the property, .nd
such certificates are authorized by the court to be issued by the Receiver for
money to be used for such purposes, those who buy the obligations are entitled to have them paid. How? In eases like the present, out of the property or its proceeds, certainly. No one, we apprehend, will question that.
But the property'having been sold for but a trifle more than' the amount
theretofore allowed the Receiver and his attorney for their services in and
about the receivership, and they credited with such allowance on their bid,
who is to suffer? The complainant, at whose. instance the Receiver .was
appointed- or those who, relying upon his acts, based upon the authority
and sanction of the court, invested their money and rendered their services
in and about the operation and preservation of the property? It is not diffi
cult to determine on which side of this question are the equities. With due
deference we are unable to see any force in the suggestion of the Supreme
Court of Oregon in the case cited-that, as the complainant in such a suit has
no control over the Receiyer, if he be held liable for the expenses of the,
receivership, in the eventthe property prove insufficient to pay them, he
may be bankrupted. At the same time it is conceded by that learned court
that where it appears probable that the property will prove insufficient, the
court may require, as a condition to the appointment of a receiver, a guaranty
of the payment of the expenses of such officer, and a'like guaranty subsequently, on pain of the discharge of the Receiver, when it becomes evident.
that the property will prove insufficient to. pay the expenses. The theory
of this manifestly is, that in these two instances the complainant can inform
himself of the probable outcome of the property, and if he be not willing -to
give the guaranty he will not secure the appointment of .a Receiver In the
one instance, or his continuance in office in the other. But why should he
not be required to inform himself, also,..when no such condition is imposed
by the court? Precisely the same opportunity on complainant's part, and
.precisely the*same duty to inform himself in that respect, exists in the absence of the requirement of the guaranty mentioned. The complainant,
whose lien upon theproperty it is sought to foreclose, in the nature of things,
must and should be held to have mubh better information regarding the value,

VOL. ccviii-24

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1907..
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

the -issues joined by the receiver's final report and petition,
and the answer of the Trust Company.. In. conformity with
the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals the Circuit Court
gave personal judgment against that company for $36,207.57,
as the amount, due the receiver. That judgment was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Atlantic Trust Co. v. Chapman, 145 Fed. Rep. 820.
We are of opinion that the Court of Appeals erred in holding
that the Trust Company was liable for the .deficiency found to
exist. No such. liability could arise from thie simple fact that
it was on plaintiff's motion that a receiver was appointed to
take charge of the property pending the litigation. The motion for a receiver was to the end that the property might be
cared for and preserved for all who had or might have an interest in the proceeds of its'sale. The circumstances seemed
to have justified the motion, but whether a receiver should have
been appointed or not was in the sound discretionof the court,
Immediately upon such appointment and after the qualification of the receiver, the property passed into the custody of
the law, and thenceforward its administration was wholly
under the control of the court by. its officer or creature, the
receiver. In Booth v. Clark, 17 How. 322, 331, it was said: "A
receiver is an indifferent person between parties, appointed
by the court to receive the rents, issues or. profits of land, or
other thing in question in this court, pending the suit, where
of the property and its probable outcome than the court. Indeed, it is not
easy to see .how the court can be properly expected to know anything about

it. The appointment of a Receiver, if made at all, is usually made at the
request of the complainant--occasionally, as in the case at bar, with the
consent of the defendant. If the complainant was not willing to pay the
expenses of the receivership it asked for, in the event of the insufficiency of

the property to do so, it should not have asked the court to make the appointment, incur the liabilities, and pledge its faith to their payment. It
was the duty of the complainant to keep informed in respect to the progress
of the receivership, the property, and its.probable outcome, and WheneVer

-it became unwilling to further stand good for any deficiency, to ask the court
to bring to an end the business it undertook and was conducting on com-

plainant's petition."

.ATLANTIC TRUST CO. v. CHAPMAN.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,

it does nbt seem reasonable to the court that either party
.should do it. Wyatt's Prac. Reg. 355.. He is an officer of the
court; his appointment is provisional. He is appointed in behalf of all parties, and not of the complainant or of the defendant only. He is appointed for the benefit of all parties who
may establish rights in the cause. The money in his hands is
in custddia legis for whoever can make out a title to it. Delany
v. Mansfield, 1 Hogan, 234. It is the court itself which has the
care of the property in dispute. The receiver is but the creature
of the court; he has no powers except such as are conferred
upon him by the order of his appointment and the course and
practice of the court. Verplanck v. Mercantile Insurance
Company, 2 Paige, C. R. 452." In Porterv. Sabin, 149 U. S.
473, 479, the court said: "When a court exercising jurisdiction
in equity appoints a receiver of all the property of a corporation, the court assumes the administration of the estate; the
possession of the receiver is the possession of the court; sad the
court- itself holds and administers the estate, through the receiver as its officer, for the benefit of those whom the court
shall ultimately adjudge to be entitled to it," citing Wiswall v.
Sampson, 14 How. 52, 65; Peal y. Phipps, 14 How. 368, 374;
Booth v. Clark, 17 How. 322, 331; Union Bank v. K~ansas City
Bank, 136 U. S. 223; Thompson v. Phenix Ins. Co., 136 U. S.
287, 297. Ought the receiver, in this case, to have beep authorized to burden the property with indebtedness on account
of money borrowed or on account of certificates which should
become a first lien? Ought some limit have been put on expenses of that kind? These were matters to be determined by
the court in the light of all the circumstances. It was for-the
court to say whether the Canal and Irrigation Company should
be kept on its .feet by moneys borrowed or obtained, under its
orders, by the receiver. The wishes of the parties could not
control as to such matters. Indeed they need not in strictness
have been consulted as to what sh6hld be done from time to
time in the management of the property.. If the situation was
such as to render it uncertain or doubtful whether the property

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

would ultimately bring, at a sale, enough to meet the expense
incurred in connection with its management, the court might
well have declined to permit its receiver to issue certificates or.
to borrow any money on the property as security for its payment. So, if the conditioft and apparent prospects of the property made such a course proper, the court, in the exercise of a
sound judicial discretion and looking to the interests of all who
might be affected by its action, could, at the outset, have made
it a condition of the appointment of a receiver'that the plaintiff and those whom it represented should be liable for any
deficiency in the flinds required for the expenses of the receivership; or it might have made it a condition of any order
authorizing receiver's certificates or the borrowing of money,
that the plaintiff, or those whom it represented, should make
good any deficiency that might be disclosed after applying the
proceeds of the sale according to the rights of parties. Still
further, the court-if it had been proper, under all the circumstances, to pursue such a course-could have refused to
operate the canals in question at all and required the parties
to proceed to a final decree of foreclosure and sale at the earliest
practicable moment. But none of these things were done.
Under the responsibility imposed upon it by law, the court
determined to carry on the business of the Canal and Irrigation
Company for a time; and, -under the same responsibility, it
authorized the receiver to borrow money, issue receiver's
certificates, and incur expenses, without any security for indebtedness, incurred in this way, except the property or the
furid in the control of the court,. and. the good faith, discretion'
and- care of the court in its administration. No other security..
seems to have been contemplated. by'the court or the receiver
or any party to the cause. No hint or warning was given, in the
progress of the cause, that the absent trustee was to be liable
in the event that the property orFjund under the control of the
court proved, insufficient to meet the expenses of the receivership. The Trust Company, it is true, invoked the jurisdiction
of the 'court by bringing this suit for foreclosure and sale'and.

ATLANTIC TRUST CO;
208 U. 8.

t.

CHAPMAN.

7
•3T3

Opinion of the Court.

making a motion for the appointment of a receiver to hold and
manage the property' pendente, lite. That, sutely, the Trust
Company had the right to do, but it did not thereby makel itself ultimately liable for money borrowed and receiver's certificates issued by order of the court. The one person who was
in a position to inform the court from time to time of the condition and probabie value'of the property, and of what was or
what seemed td be necessary in order to preserve it for the parties interested in it, was its officer and representative,'the re.ceiver. It was at his instance and because of his report of the
c6ndition and needs of the property, that money was borrowed.
and certificates issued in order that expenses incurred in the
administration of the property'. ight be met. To hold the'
Trust, Company liable for indebtedness thus cr.eated-would be
most inequitable, and would not, we think, be in accord with
sound principle..
It is.
true that cases are cited in which the party bringing a
suit, in which a receiver is appointed, has been held liable for.
expenses incurred by the receiver in excess of the procedds.,
arising from the sale of the property. But in most, if not in
all, .of. those cases the circumstances were peculiar . and were
such as- to make. it right aid equitable, in the opinion of the
'court, that that should be done. As, for instance, in Ephraim
v. Pacific Bank, 129 California, 589, 592, in which arose a questibn as to the party to whom a receiver should look for reimbursement or payment of his expenses, the court recognized
the fact that the general rule that the compensation of a re:
ceiver was a charge upon the fund in his hands did not apply
without qualification to every case, and said: "If he [the receiver] has taken property into his custody under an irregular,
unauthorized appointment, he must look for his compensation
to the parties at whose instance he was appointed, and the same
rule applies if the property of which he takes. possession is
determined to beiong to persons who are not parties to the
action, and is taken from his. posscssion by paramount authority. As to such.property. his appointment as receiver was

OCTOBER TERM; 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. 8.

unauthorized. and conferred upon him no right to charge it
with any expenses." In Farmers' Nat. Bank v. Backus, 74
Minnesota, 264, 267, the Supreme Court of Minnesota .said:
"The second proposition is that, a receiver being an officer of
the court, subject to its control, and not to that of the party
asking for his appointment, his fees and expenses are chargeable
solely against the fund which comes into his hands as receiver.
.The parties to the action are not personally liable therefor,
unless they have given a bond or other contract to pay them
as a condition of the appointment or continuance of the receiver. This may be conceded. to be correct as a general rule,
but there are cases where the court will, if the fund in court, be
insufficient to give the receiver reasonable compensation and
indemnity, require the parties at whose instance he is placed
in possession of the property to pay him. Johnson v. Garrett,
23 Minnesota, 565; Knickerbocker v. McKindley Co., 67 Ill.
App. 293; High, Rec. §796. The special facts of this case fully
justify the order of the trial court. It is not a case where the
party asking for the appointment of a receiver is required to
pay the receiver's charges without having received any benefit
.from the receivership. It is a case where the benefits so received were more than five times as great as the amount required to be paid.

.

.

.

The order of the court requiring

the appellant to pay the receiver is, in effect, the enforcement
of the receiver's equitable right to be paid from a fund growing out of the receivership." In Cutter v. Pollock, 7 N. Dak.
631, 634, the Supreme Court of North Dakota, speaking by
its chief justice said: "We do not believe that any case can be
found to uphold the palpably unjust rule that one who is shown
to have had no right to maintain the action, and no interest
whatever in the property which he claims, can require that the
defendant, who has paid out of his own pocket the expenses of
a receivership, shall not call Upon him (the plaintiff in the action) for reimbursement." See High on Receivers.(3d ed.),
§796; Beach on Receivers, §774.
The above cases relied upon in the Circuit Court-of Appeals-

ATLANTIC TRUST CO. v. CHAPMAN.
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

and others of like kind could be cited-proceeded upon their
special facts. They do not, in our judgment, authorize the order
made by that court, although they tend to support the rule that
cases may arise in which, because of their special circumstances,
it is equitable to require the parties, at whose instance a receiver of property was appointed, to meet the expenses of the
'receivership, when the fund in court is ascertained to be insufficient for that purpose. Here, it is not asserted that the
plaintiff trustee was not in the exercise of his strict rights when
bringing a suit for foreclosure and sale and asking that the
property. be put in possession of a receiver. It gave no assurances as to the. probable value of the property or of the profits
to arise from its management. It misled no one who loaned
money to the receiver, or who purchased the certificates. It
acted as an ordinary litigant, submitting to the action of the
court in all particulars. We do not think that the mere insufficiency of the property or fund to meet the expenses of a receivership entitled the receiver to hold the plaintiff in the suit'
personally liable, if all that could be/said was that he instituted
the suit and moved for the appointment of the receiver to take.
charge of the property and maintain and operate it pending the
suit. Areceiver, as soon as he is appointed and qualifies, comes,
as we have said, under the sole direction of -the court, The
contracts he makes or the engagements into which he enters,
from time to time, under the order of the court, are, in a substantial sense, the contracts and engagements of the court.
The liabilities which he incurs are liabilities chargeable upon
the property under th4 control and in the possession of the court
and not liabilities of the parties. They have no authority over
him and cannot control his acts.
When neither the order appointing a receiver nor ltie order
authorizing him to borrow money "d issue certificates was
conditioned upon the plaintiff (in a suit for foreclosure and
sale) being liable for the expenses of the receivership, and when
no special circumstances appear which, upon equitable prinz4ciples, would authorize the court to fix liability upon the plain-*

376

3 OCTOBER

TERM, 1907.

Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

tiff for such -expenses, the general rule should be applied which
makes such expenses a charge upon the, property or fund under
the control of the court,-without any personal liability therefor
upon the. part of the plaintiff who- invoked the jurisdiction of
the'court: The mere inadequacy of the property. or fund -to
meet such expenses constitutes in itself no reason why liability
should be fastened upon the plaintiff, who has been guilty of
ho irregularity, and who, so far from seeking any improper
advantage, has succeeded in his suit by obtaining the relief
asked, namely, a decree of foreclosure and sale.
The considerations which; in our judgment, should control
in cases like this are well stated by the.Supreme Court of Oregon in the above case of Farmers' Loan Co. v. Oregon Pacfic
R. R. Co., 31 Oregon, 237. That, it is true, was the case of a
railroad receivership, but what is said is equally applicable to
other quasi-public corporations having public duties to perform,
as in the case of water and irrigation companies. The particular
question in that case was whether the plaintiff in a suit brought
to foreclose a railroad mortgage could be held liable for the
wages of employds of the receiver, who had no funds with
-which to pay them, having exhausted his power to float receiver's certificates. After observing that the plaintiff, atwhose instance a receiver is appointed thereby consents to the
absolute control and management of the mortgaged property
by the court and its 'agents and to the priority of claims for the
expenses incurred in its operation and management, -and after
declaring that it was not perceived upon what ground it could
be claimed that, because the expenses of the receivership .were
allowed without any fault of his to exceed the value of the
mortgaged property, thus entirely destroying his security, he
must, in addition to the loss of his debt, be compelled to make.
good' the deficit, unless the order of appointment was made
upon that condition, the court in'that case proceeded to say
(p. 247): that the plaintiff "has no control over the acts of the
receiver, and if, without his consent, he is to'be held responsible
therefor, he is liable to absolute bankruptcy and ruin." Such a.

ATLANTIC TRUST CO. v. CHAPMAN.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rule would render the plaintiff's position so uncertain and precariou" as practically to preclude him from any protection
whatever through the appointment of a receiver pending the
foreclosure suit. But the inquiry is made, 'shall not a railroad
mortgagee who applies for and obtains the appointment of a
receiver, with authority to operate the road, be held responible
for the liabilities'incurred by such officer when they cannot be
made out of the prbperty itself?' We think not, unless such
responsibility was imposed as a condition to the appointment
or the continuance of the receiver in office. The appointment
of a receiver in a suit to foreclos a railroad mortgageis not a
matter of strict right, but rests in the sound judicial discretion
of the court; and it may, as-a condition
to issuing the necessary
..order, impose such terms as may, under the circumstances of
the particular case, appear to be reasonable, and, if not acceded
to, may refusetd make the order. 30 Am. L. Rev. 161; Fosdick
V. Schall, 99 U. S. 235. If, therefore, upon an application for
the appointment of a railroad receiver, it appears probable
that the income and corpus will prove insufficient to pay, the
expenses and liabilities thereof, we have no doubt that the court
may require of the plaintiff, as a condition to such appointment,
a guaranty of the payment of the expenses of such officer.
And if, at any time after the appointment'has been made, it
become'apparent to the court that it. will be unable to pay and
discharge the presentor future liabilities incurred by its executive officer and manager, it should refuse to continue the
operation of ihe road under the receiver, unless its expenses
conare guaranteed. -No court -is bound or ought to engage or
tinue in the operation . of a railroad or any other enterprise
without the ability to promptly discharge its obligations,. and,
inless it can do so, it should keep out. or imrnediat.ely go out
of the buoiness.. But, unless such terms are imposed as a condition of the appointment, or continuation in office of the receiver, his employ~s must look to the property in the. custody
of the court and its income for their compensation. They have
no claim whatever on any of the parties to the litigation. They

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.

378

Syllabus.

208 U. S.

are the employds and servants of the court, and not of the
parties. Their wages are in no sense costs of the litigation; and,
although incurred during the progress of the suit, they are not
incurred in the suit. They are neither expenses of the plaintiff,
nor of the defendant, and are not fees or costs which can be
charged against the successful party to the litigation, as is
sought to be done in this case."
Without further elaboration, or further citation of authorities, we adjudge that the final orders of the Circuit Court and
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, whereby the Trust Company
•was held liable to make good the deficiency found to exist in
the funds required for the expenses of the receivership, were
erroneous. Those orders must be set aside, and the petition of
the receiver,.so far as it seeks to impose such liability on the
plaintiff, must be dismissed. To that end the decree is reversed
and the cause remanded for such proceedings as will be consistent with this opinion and. be in conformity with law.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA did not sit in this case.

COSMOPOLITAN CLUB v. COMMONWEALTH OF
VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

VIRGINIA.
No. 130.

Argued January 23, 1908.-Decided February 24, 1908.

The charter of a private corporation may be forfeited or annulled for the
misuse of its corporate privileges and franchises, and its forfeiture or annulment; by appropriate judicial proceedings, for such a reason would not
impair the obligation of the contract, if any, arisling between the State and
the corporation out of the mere granting of the charter. The charter
ganted to a club, held, in this case, not to amount to such a contract

