OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

NEW YORK ex rel. EDWARD AND JOHN BURKE, LIMITED, v. WELLS et al., AS COMMISSIONERS OF TAXES
AND ASSESSMENTS OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 39. *Argued November 5, 6, 1907.-Decided January 6, 1908.
While the State may not directly tax imported goods or the right to sell
them, or impose license fees upon importers for the privilege of selling,
so long as the goods remain in the ortginal packages and are unincorporated
into 'the general property, Brown v. MarVland, 12 Wheat. 419, when the
article has lost its distinctive character as an import and been mingled
with other property, it becomes subject to the taxing power of the State.
May v.'New Orleans, 1'78 U. S. 496.
When a.,foreign manufacturer establishes a permanent place of business
in thid'country for the sale of imported articles,, although the bulk of
the proceeds may be sent abroad, such proceeds as are retained here as
cash in bank: and notes. receivable, and are used in 'connection with the
business, lose the distinctive character which protects them under the
Federal Constitution and become. capital invested in business in the
Sate and carried .on under its protection and are subject to taxation by
the laws of that State.
Whether this rule applies. to open accounts for goods sold, not decided, the
state court not having passed on that question.
184 N. Y. 275, affirmed.

* Tins is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
New'York. to review the judgment rendered upon a remittitur
from the Court of Appeals of the same State, wherein an assessment of taxes against the plaintiff in error, imposed by the
Board of Taxes and Assessments of the City of New York, who
are the defendants in error, was affirmed. The taxes were for
the year 1903, and were imposed under the statutes of the
State of New York taxing non-residents of the State doing
business in the State on the capital invested in such business,
as personal property at the place where such business is carried
,on, to :the same extent as if they were residents of the State.
N. Y. General Tax Law, chap. 908, Laws of' 1896, § 7.
The respondents, in the return to the writ of certiorari issued

BURKE v. WELLS..'.
208 U. S.

15

Sta-tement of the Cam.

by the Supreme t-ourt of New York, stated that the method
by which the assessment for the year 1903 was arrived at was
as follows:
"On the statement submitted to us (Schedule A) it appeared
that the relator was a corporation organized under the laws
of the Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, that it had procured .a certificate 'authorizing it to do business in this State,
that the business of the corporation proposed to be carried.
on within this State, stated in its application under the provisions of chapter 687 of the Laws of 1892, was importers, that
the place within the State named in said application as its
principal place of business was 409 West 14th, street, that
the company transacted business within this State at No. 409
West 14th street, in the City of New York, Borough of Manhattan, and that the company was assessed by the State Comptroller for $124,000.
"It further appeared that the relator kept a wareroom and
offices in the Borough of Manhattan, to which it sent its products from Ireland in unbroken original packages to be sold,
that on all these goods it paid-duties to the United States, that
the proceeds of the goods were at once remitted to the main
office in Dublin, after reserving the necessary amount for paying
the expenses of the business conducted in the City of New York,
that the value of the goods on hand, as shown in the statenient,
was about the average amount of the goods usually kept here
for sale, that the greater part of the cash -on hand and in bank
was in process of transmission to the main office, that the bank
account was to a very large'ex.tent kept to cover the payment
of duties on the goods shipped here for sale, and that the entire
amount of bills receivable resulted from the sales of imported.
goods inunbroken original packages, as did the cash on' hand.
and in bank.
The amount receivable on notes and open accounts
was stated to be: ........................ $111,751.53
The value of goods, wares and merchandise in this
State .......................................
45,841.21

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The value of safes, fixtures*and furniture in this

• . State...

. . ..

. . . . . . . . . ........

208 U. S..

3

797.68

Cash on hand and in bank ....................
6,122.63
Cost price of imported goods on hand in unbroken
original packages .......................
... .45,841.21
Amount of bills and accounts payable, incurred
for items included in the sales and assets enumerated ...... .
.......................
24,053.91
"It was admitted that the amount invested in business in
this State was $797.68, which was the value of the relator's
safes, fixtures and furniture in this State.
"From all this evidence we determined that the relator had
on the second Monday of January, 1903, established and was
conducting a permanent and continuous business in this State.
"We further determined that the amount receivable on notes
and open accounts, ,and the cash on hand and in bank, constituted capital of the relator invested in its business in this
State, and that such items were properly assessable by us.
We accordingly fixed the assessment against the relator for
the year 1903 for capital invested in business in this Stateat
the sum of $94,600, 'which amount was approximately the
aggregate value of the amount receivable on notes and open
accounts, the safes, fixtures and furniture in this State, and
the cash on hand and in bank, less the amount of bills and
accounts payable incurred for the items included in the sales
and assets enumeratedlin said statement."
The assessment was confirmed when brought for review
upon certiorari before the New York Supreme Court, which
judgment was affirmed in the Appellate Division, and the latter
judgment was affirmed by the Cotrt, of Appeals (184 N. Y. 275),
from which judgment, upon remittitur, the judgment was
rendered in the Supreme Court to which this writ of error is
prosecuted.
Mr. Edmund Wetmore for plaintiff in error:
A state tax upon the proceeds received for the. sale of an

BURKE v. WELLS.
208 U. 1.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

article in original and unbroken packages, imported only for
sale, and upon which duties have been paid, and where the only
disposition made of said proceeds is to collect them and at once
remit them to the importer abroad, after deducting the amount
of duties paid and the expenses. necessarily incident to'said
importation and sale, is a tax upon imports and a violation of
the Constitution of the United States. Brown v. Maryland,
12 Wheat. 436;. Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S. 283, 295;
The People v. Maring, 3 Keyes, 374, 376.
tax upon the sale of imported .goods,'as above set forth,
is not affected by the form of the tax, whether it is.eo nomine
upon the right to sell, or upon the proceeds, or upon the business of importing, or in any other form, provided it is the same
in effect as if it was upon the right to sell, and must be paid
by the importer in like manner as a direct duty on the article
itself would be paid. Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U.'S. 566; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 436; Crandall v. State of Nevada, 6 Wall. 35; Case ol the State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232;.
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Alabama, 132.U. S. 472; Fargo v.
Michigan, 122 U. S. 230; Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams,
158 U. S. 688; Philadelphia Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania,
122 U. S. 236.
The tax complained of was, in effect, levied on the goods
of the plaintiff in error, and paid by the plaintiff in error for
the right to sell them, and the proceeds from which the tax
was deducted had not become part of the common mass of
property within the State of New York, nor were they invested
therein.
The proceeds of the imported goods represented by bills
receivable and cash in bank were not taxable by the State, as
they had not become part of the common mass of property
within the State and were not invested in business there. Their
identity as the proceeds of the sale of the goods in original
packages was never lost. They were transmitted to the plaintiff in error as soon as they were transmissible. The plaintiff
in error is a foreign resident, did no other business in the -State
VOL. ccvi--2

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

208 U. S.

of New York except the sale of its products in original packages
and the collection and remittance of the said proceeds, and
there is no proof or assertion that it had any other property
in the State than said goods and proceeds outside of office
furniture and fixtures. The said proceeds were not invested
in the State of New York and did not constitute taxable capital
invested in business in said State.
The fact that the plaintiff in error does business in New York
is immaterial. Its claim is that it has received from the United States the right to sell certain goods while in their original
packages, whether said sales are made in the course of that
business or not, and that the State cannot impose a tax, in any
form which directly impairs that right, whether the said goods
are or are not capital invested in the State, and that the tax
on the-proceeds of said sale is a direct imlairment of that right.
The tax cannot be sustained simply'as a. tax on business.
Crandallv. State ol Nevada, 6'Wall. 35, and cases cited supra.
The sale of the goods in the original packages is the conversion of said goods into'money. The right to make that conversion is the very thing which the Constitution. protects. Mere
conversion of the imported goods which are an asset of the
business, into an asset of another form, namely, money paid
or to be paid, is not such an incorporation of the proceeds with
the general property of the country as renders them subject
to state taxation. People ex rel. National Sewing Machine
Co. v. Feitner,N.. Y. Law Journal, March 15, 1899.
The fact that part of the proceeds represented by deferred
payments may be retained and expended for expenses incidental to the original sales or in payment of duties on subsequent
importations because duties must be-paid in advance of taking the goods out of the custom house, does not relieve the tax
under consideration from its unconstitutional character.
Mr. George S. Coleman,.with whom Mr. FrancisK. Pendleton
was on the brief, for .-feadants ir error:
The credits and moneys of the plaintiff in error, representing

BURKE v. WELIS.
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

proceeds of sales of its goods within the State of New York,
constituted capital invested in business in said State under
the provisions of the tax law.
From the fact of the final eonfirmation of the assessment
in this case by the highest court of the State of New York,
it will, we assume, be accepted as the law of that State, without
argument or citation of other authorities, that cash in hand
or in bank and bills and accounts receivable, being the proceeds of goods sold in regular course of a continuous business,
constitute capital invested in such business. People ex rel.
*Farcy & Oppenheim Co. v. Wels, 183 N. Y. 264.
The tax imposed upon the credits and moneys representing
proceeds of sales did not contravene the provisions of the
Federal Constitution.
The tax imposed on the assessment in question violates none
of the rules established by the highest court. The value of
the imported goods in original unbroken packages was deducted from the total assets, so that there is no tax imposed
on imports as such. It is not a license tax that an importer
must pay before he can sell, nor a tax Upon the sales made by
him throughout the year. It is merely the annual tax on .a
part of the general mass of taxable property in the State.
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Cook v. Pennsylvania' 97
U. S. 566, and Warring v. Mayor, 8 Wa'l. !'LO, distinguished.
MR. JusTicE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It is the contention of the plaintiff in error that the assessment upon $94,617.93, made upon office furniture, cash on
hand and in bank and the amount receivable upon bills and
accounts payable, is void, except as to the item of office furniture, because of the protection afforded by the Constitution
of the United States against taxes by States upon imports.
As to the open accounts which might be included in the bills
receivable, the Court of Appeals declined to pass upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

validity of the taxes on them, as, according to the practice
in that State, it was incumbent upon the relator to point out
what part of the bills receivable were of that class, but did
hold that the cash, and the notes which it was admitted were
held in New York until maturity, although the proceeds of
sale of goods imported and sold in the original packages, were
properly within the taxing power of the State of Now York
under the section of the statute referred to, and that such
exercise of power did not violate the Constitution. of the United States.
The section of the Constitution relied upon by the plaintiff
in error in the argument in this court is Article I, § 10, which
provides:
.' No State shall, without the consent of the Congress, lay
any imposts or duties on imports or exports, except.what may
be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws; and
the net produce of all duties and imposts, laid by any State on
imports or exports, shall be for the use of the Treasury of the
United States; and all such laws shall be subject to the revision and control of the Congress."
The contention of the learned counsel for plaintiff in error
is succinctly stated in his brief as follows:.
"The ground taken by the plaintiff in error is that the tax
on the proceeds of the goods in original packages in the course
of transmission to the owner abroad is in essence and effect
a tax upon the sale of said goods, and, therefore, a tax upon
imports and a violation of the Constitution under the principle
laid down in Brown v. State of Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, and
the cases following that decision.''
The case referred to (Brown v.. Maryland) is the leading one
upon this subject, and has been cited perhaps as often as any
of the great decisions of Chief Justice Marshall, 'and not attempted to be modified in the subsequent decisions of tijid
court. In that case this. section, as well as Article I, § 8, the.,
commerce clause of the Constitution, were given consideration
by the court. It was held that an act of the State of Maryland,

BURKE v. WELLS.
208 U.s.

Opinion of the Court;

which required an importer of foreign merchandise, under
certain penalties, to take out a license from the State, for which
he should be taxed $50, before he should be authorized to sell
the imported articles in the original packages, was in violation
of the commerce clause of the Constitution and within'.the
prohibition on the States of the right to levy duty on importations. And in this connection the Chief Justice d.cussed and
laid down certain general principles by which to determine
whether an act of the legislature does interfere with the paraYriount purpose of the Constitution in these respects.
i. In a late case in this court Brown v. Maryland is fully con-sidered, and the following propositions are said .to be estalilished in that case:
"1. That the payment of duties to the United States gives..
the right to sell the thing imported, and that such right to sell
cannot be forbidden or inpaired by
a State:
"2. That a tax upon the thing imported during the time it.
retains its character as an import and remains the property
of the importer, 'in his warehouse, in the original form or
package iii which it was imported,' is a duty on imports within.
the meaning of the Constitution; and
"3. That a State cannot, in the form of a license or otherwise, tax the right of the importer to scll; but when the importer
has so acted upon the goods imported that they have become
incorporated or mixed with .he gePeral mass of property in the
State, such goods have then lost their distinctive character as
imports, and have become from that time subject to state taxition, not because they are the products of other countries, but
because they are property within the State in like condition
with other property that should contribute, in the -way of taxation,,to the support of the government which protects the owner
in his person and estate." May v. New Orleans, 178 U. S. 496,
507.
In Cook V. Pcinnsyli'nia, 97 U. S. 566, it was held that
the tax by the State on the amount of sales of goods made by
ni auctioneer ,f. iIiported goods, before incorporation into

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

the general property in the State, wa a tax on the goods themselves. Previous cases were reviewed by Mr. Justice Miller,
and the result of them stated to be, p. 573:
"The tax on sales made by an auctioneer is a tax on the
goods sold, within the terms of this last decision, and, indeed,
within all the cases cited; and when applied to foreign goods
sold in the original packages of the importer, before they have
become incorporated into the general property of the country,
the law imposing such tax is void as laying a duty on imports."
And in the late case of The American Steel & Wire Co. v.
Speed, 192 U. S. 518, the distinction was pointed out between
taxes upon goods imported from abroad, imported in the legal
sense, and those sent from another State; as to which latter
class of merchandise the States have the power, after the goods
reach their. destination and are held for. sale, to tax them.
Whereas, following Brown v. Maryland, where goods are imported in the strict sense they preserve their character as imports so long as they are not sold in the original packages in
which they are imported or by the act of the importer incorporated into the general property of the State.
It may be stated as the result of the decisions that as
to imported goods the State may not impose taxes directly upon the
goods or upon the right to sell them, or impose license fees upon
importers for the privilege of selling, so long as the goods remain in the original package unincorporated into the general
property. All such attempts at taxation are in violation of the
Constitution and void.
But in Brown v. Maryland, and in subsequent cases in this
court, the principle is recognized, as was stated by Chief Justice Marshall in the original case, that this prohibition in the
Constitution should be carried "no further than to prevent
the States from doing that which it was the great object of the
Constitution to prevent;" which was interference with either
the collection of duties upon imports or the right of the importer, who has paid duty, to sell the imported goods in the
unbroken packages in which they were imported.

BURKE a. WELLS.
208 U. B.

Opinion of the Court.

The Chief Justice instanced the case of the pedler who carried
goods unpacked from the original packages for sale through
the country, and the case of the importer of plate for his own
use, whose privileges did not extend beyond the protection
of the right of the importer to sell in the original packages, and
whose conduct in reference to the goods had been such as to
destroy .their character as original packages and mingle them
with the goods and property of the country, and thus, notwithstanding their importation, to make them, for the purpose
of taxation, part of the general property of the country and
liable to contribute in consideration of the protection received,
to the general welfare, by way of taxes levied for public purposes. This right of taxation by the State was distinctly recognized in May v. New Orleans, 178 U. S. 496,.where the goods
imported in the original packages were separated therefrom
and placed on. the shelves and counters of the importing merchant.
The exact question in this case is, has a condition of facts
arisen which renders applicable the principle that the thing
taxed has lost its distinctive character as an import in such
sense that it has become subject to the taxing power of the
State?
The power of the State of New York to impose a tax upon
the cash and these notes as capital employed in a business
within the State, laying aside for the moment the question as
to their character as proceeds of the sale of imports, cannot
be doubted in view of the previous decisions of this court.
Particularly the recent case of Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.
of New York v. City of New Orleans, decided at the last term,
205 U. S. 395,, wherein it was held that those engaged in the
business of lending money in a State, being non-residents of
the same, might be taxed upon the capital employed in such
business, precisely as the State could tax the capital of its own
citizens.
The constitutional protection as we have seen is intended to
secure the right to bring in and to sell in the original packages

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

the goods imported; and, that this right may not be impaired,
direct taxes upon goods or license taxes for the privilege of
sale cannot be levied, and the decision in Brown v. Maryland
recognizes that the importer may lose this right of protection
by mingling such goods wit h other property and altering their
character as importations in original packages, and making
them by his conduct subject to the taxing power of the State.
And we think the same principle may be applied to the proceeds
of the sale of the goods, which, while not directly taxable as
such, any more than the goods themselves, may be dealt with
by the owner in such wise as to become subject to taxation
as other property.
And we think such a case is presented in the facts now before
us. The plaintiffs in error have established a warehouse and
place of business in the State of New York for the sale of their
imported goods. This business is of a permanent character;
the goods are constantly received and sold and replaced by
other goods. Cash is deposited in bank in New York and is
subject to use as the needs of the business may require. In
this business it takes notes for sales of such goods. These
notes are nbt directly transmitted to its home office in Dublin,
but are held for collection in connection with the business in
New Yo'k, and while the bulk of the proceeds may be sent
abroad, sufficient sums -are retained to meet the expenses of
the business and pay duties on subsequent importations of
-goods.

We think the constitutional protection afforded the importer
against state action does not require the property thus held
and-used to be exempted from state taxation. While it is
tru that a large proportion of proceeds of. the notes after collection are sent to the home office of the plaintiffs in error,
they are not taxed in transit as the proceeds of sale of imported.
goods, for the notes are held in New York for collection, and
when Oaid a part of the proceeds are held for other purposes
'in connection with the business and the balance remitted to
the home office.

YOSEMITE MINING CO. v. EMERSON.
Syllabus.

208 U. S.

By reason of this course of conduct we think these proceeds
have lost that distinctive character which would give them the

right to the protection of the Federal Constitution under the
clause invoked, and the cash taxed and the amount of these
notes have become capital invested in business in the State of

New York, which business is carried on under the protection
of the laws of that State, and, so far as the capital is invested
in it, is subject to taxation by the laws of the State.
We think the Court of Appeals did not err, and the judg*ment of the Supreme Court rendered upon remittitur from the
Court Of Appeals is

Affirmed.

YOSEMITE GOLD. MINING AND MILLING COMPANY
v. EMERSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF -CALIFORNIA.
No. 69.

Argued December 13, 1907.-Decided January 0. 1906.

The object of requiring the posting of the preliminary notice of mining
claims is to make known the purpose of the discoverer and to warn others
of the prior appropriationi and one having actual knowledge of.a prior
location and the extent of its boundaries, the outlines of which have been
marked, cannot relocate it for himself and claim a forfeiture of the original
location for want of strict compliance with all the statutory requirements
of preliminary notice.
The determination by the trial court that the locators of a mining claim
had sumed work on the claim after a failure to do the anhual assessment work, required by § 2324, Rev. Stat., and before a new location
had been made, and the finding by the highest court of the State that
such determination is conclusive, do not amount to the denial of a Federal right set up by the party claiming the right to relocate the claim,
and this court cannot review the judgment under § 709, Rev. Stat.
Ouwre and not decided, whether a forfeiture adises simply from' a violation
of a mining rule established by miners of a district which does not expre.sly make non-compliance therewith work a forfeiture.
149 California, 50, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

