ADAIR v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. 8.

161

Syllabu.

ADAIR v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 293. Argued October 29, 30, 1907.-Decided January 27, 1908.
It is not within the power of Congress to make:it a criminal offense against
the United States for a carrier engaged in interstate commerce, or an
agent or officer thereof, to discharge an employ6 simply because of his
membership in a labor organization;- and the provision to that effect
in § 10 of the act of June 1, 1898, 30 Stat. 424, concerning interstate
carriers is an invasion of personal liberty, as well as of the right of property, guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, anti is therefore unenforceable as repugnant to the declaration-of that amendment that no person shall 'be deprived of liberty
or property without due 'process of law.
While the rights of liberty and property guaranteed by the Constitution
against deprivation without due process of law, are subject to such
reasonable restrictions as the common good or general welfare may
require, it is not within the functions of goyernment--at least in the
absence of contract-to compel any person in the course of his business,
and against his will, either to employ, or be employed by, another. An
employer has the same right to prescribe terms on which he will employ
one to labor as an employd has to plrescribe those on which he will sell
his labor, and any. legislation which disturbs this equality is an arbitrary
and unjustifiable interference with liberty of contract.
Quare, and not decided, whether it iswithin the power of Congress to make
it a criminal offense against the' United States for either an employer
-engaged in interstate commerce, or his employd, to disregard, without
sufficient notice or excuse, the terms of a valid labor contract.
The power to regulate interstate commerce is the power to prescribe rules by.
which such commerce must be governed, but the rules pyecribed must
have a real and substantial relation to, or connection with, the commerce
regulated, and as that relation does not. exist between the membership
of an employo in a labor organization and the interstate commerce with
which he is connected, the provision above referred to -in § 10 of the act
of June 1, 1898 cannot be sustained as a regulation of interstate commerce and as such within the competency of Congress.
The power to regulate interstate commerce, while great and paramount,
cannot be exerted in violation of any fundamental right secured by other
provisions.of the National Constitution.

-'VOL. ccvm-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

208 U. S,

The provision above referred to, in § 10 of the act of June 1, 1898, is sever-

able, and its unconstitutionality may not affect other provisions of the
act or provisions of that section thereof.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of § 10 of
the act of Congress. concerning carriers engaged in interstate.
commerce (known as the Erdman Act), passed June 1, 1898,
c. 370, 30 Stat. 424, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Benjamin D. Warfield, with whom Mr. Henry L. Stone
was on thi brief,' for plaintiff ii, error:
Section 10 is unconstitutional. If it affects commerce at all,
it does so'only obliquely, reinotely, indirectly apd..cilaterally.
A regulation of commerce to come within the. mcaning of
the commerce clause of the Constitution, must be direct
and substantial, and not merely indirect, remote, incident.
and collateral. Therefore § 10 was beyond the power of Congress to enact. Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States,
175 U. S. 211; Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578; United
States v, E. C. Knight Co., 1.56 U. S. 1; Hooper v. California, 105 U. S. 648, 654; Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270,
278; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Mugler v. Kansas, 123
U. S. 623, 661. See also L. & N.- R. Co. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S.
677; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; Sherlock v. Ailing, 93
U. S. 102; L. S. & M. S. R. R. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684.
The act under consideration does not prescribe any rule as
to traffic or transportation. No rule whatever is laid down.
There are no -regulations to which the carrier is required to
conform, or failing in obedience to which it'is to be rendered
liable in a civil or a criminal forum. The act is a bold attempt
to regulate an ordinary relation of life-of master and servant-- one hitherto supposed to be entirely within state control.
Section 10 violates the Fifth Amendment. It impairs, if it
does not in fact destroy, the valuable property right of. contract, Similar state statutes have been declared unconstitutional. State v. Julow, 31 S. W. Rep. 781; Gillespie v. People,
58 N. E. Rep. 1007; State ex rel. Zillmer v. Kreutzberg,..90

ADAIR v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

N. W. Rep 1098; People v. Marcus, 77 N. E. Rep. 1073;
Wallace v. Georgia C. & N. Ry. Co., 22 S. E. Rep. 579;
New York'&c. R. Co. v. Shaffer, 62 N. E. Rep. 1036. See also
Shaver v. Pennsylvania Co., 71 Fed. Rep. 931;_ Brewste v.
Miller's Sons & Co., 101 Kentucky, 358; Humdley v. L. & N.
R. Co., 105 Kentucky, 162; Allgeyer. v; Louisiana, 165 U. S..
578; Arthur v. Oakes, 63 Fed. Rep. 310.
Section 10 is unconstitutional ,as class legislation. The classification is unreasonable. The statute attempts to confer privileges upon union labor that are not conferred upon nonunion labor. No.restraint whatever is imposed upon carriers
with respect to discharging or discriminating against non-union
laborers. However lawful it may be for employ6s to organize and become members of labor unions or associations, under.
our form of government, which guarantees equal privileges to
all before the law, it is not competent for Congress, or .tate
legislatures, to make such an unreasonable classification a6 in
the statute before us, whereby union labor is prefeired as
against non-union labor. Johnson v. Ry. Co., 43 Minnesota,
223; S. C., 8 L. R. A. 419; Gull, Col. & Santa F6 Ry. Co. v.
Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Robertson v. Badwin, 165 U. S 275.
The Attorney General and Mr. William R. Harr, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, for defendant in error:
Section 10 of the act has a clear and direct relation to interrstate commerce. Its constitutionality is not to be determined
by considering it separately from the other provisions of the
act, as was done by Judge Evans in United States v. Scott, 148
Fed. Rep. 431. Considered in the light of the other, provisions
of the act and he purpose which pervades the entire statute,
the relation of § 10 to interstate commerce is at once apparent.
In construing statutes the whole statute and all of its-parts
are to be taken together. Pennington v. Coxe, 2 Cranch, 34.
The manifest purpose of the act is the protection of interstate
and foreign commerce by the avoidance of strikes, lockouts,
etc., which are the forms such interruptions usually assume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Aigument for Defendant in Enmr.

208 U. S.

The history of the act removes any doubt on this point.
It was the result of the great railroad strike at Chicago in
June-July, 1894. See'Senate Rep. 591, 55th Cong., 2d Session; H. Rep. 454, 55th Cong., 2d Session.
It recognized the fact that'such interruptions were not apt to
assume serious proportions unless the employ6s were members
of labor organizations and the latter became involved in it.
Congress also recognized the fact that discrimination against
employ&s because of their membership in a labor organization
was calculated to bring on such disturbances. For the purpose, therefore, of preventing these interruptions, it provided
means for the arbitration of disputes between the carriers and
their employ6s through the labor. organizations to which the
latter belonged, and forbade discrimination against employds
because of their membership in such organizations.
The relation of the inhibitions in § 10 to the general scheme
for the protection of interstate commerce embodied in the act
against interruption by strikes, lockouts, etc., is therefore
apparent. Congress has the constitutional authority so to
regulate thebusiness of a common carrier engaged in interstate commerce as adequately to protect and safeguard the
interests of such commerce.
The right of individuals or corporations to make contracts
and do business is at all times subservient to the power of
Congress to regulate interstate commerce, and common carriers are subject to greater control than private individuals
by the State or Congress (according as their business is local
or interstate), on account of the public nature of such business.
See United. States v. Trans-Missouri Freight Association, 166
U. S. 290; United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171-U. S.
505; Addyston Pipe and Steel Co. v. United States, -175 U. S.
211; United States v. Northern Securities.Co., 193 U. S. 197;
United Stdtes v. SWnit &.Co.,.196 U. S.375.
When the business, of the carrier is interstate, the power of
the State to control the conduct of its business in the interest.
of the public health, safety oi conveuience. is subject to the..

ADAIR v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

paramount right of Congress over the subject, which may
displace all state regulations by legislation of its own. Gib-.
bons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210; Nashville &c. Ry. v. Alabama,
128 U. S. 96; Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299, 317; New
York, New Haven & Hartford Ry. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S.
628, 631; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137. See also Granger
Cases, 94 U. S. 113; Wabash, St. Louis & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Illinois, 118 U. S. 557; B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. Baugh, 149 U. S.
368.
'Although the Supreme Court has held that the
act to regulate commerce did not cQnfer upon the Interstate Commerce
Commission the power to fix rates, Cincinnati &c. Railway v.
InterstateComm. Comm., 162 U. S. 184; Interstate Comm. Comm.
v. Cincinnati&c. Railway, 167 U. S. 479, in so doing it plainly
recognized the plenary authority of Congress over the matter.
See Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1, construing the
safety-appliance act of March 2, 1893, and showing that Congress may change the common law rules of liability between
master and servant in respect to common carriers engaged in
interstate commerce; and may also legislate for the protettion
of employ~s of such common carriers.
The cases above referred to simply extend to interstate
commerce by land the principles theretofore enumerated by
the Supreme Court in reference to interstate commerce by
water. Prior to the construction of railroads the plenary
power of Congress over the navigable waters of the United
States and the agencies and instrumentalities of interstate
commerce thereon had been firmly established, and later cases
confirm its power in that regard... Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1; United States v. Coombs, 12 Pet. 72; Waring v. Clarke, 5
How.
441; Sinnot v. Davenport,.22 How. 240; Gilman v.
PhilaBridge
557;
10
Wall
Ball,
The
Daniel
713;
3
Wall.
delphia,
Co. v. United States, 105 U. S. 470; Escanaba Company v.
Chicago, 107 U. S. 678; Williamette Iron Bridge Co. v. Hatch,
125'U. S. 1; United States v. Bellingham Bay Boom Co., 176
U. S. 211.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

These cases affirm the right of Congress to license, inspect
and control vessels engaged in interstate commerce upon the
navigable waters of the United States, and to exercise exclusive control over such highways in the interest of commerce and regulation thereon.
There is no invasion of the carrier's liberty by this statute.
Congress has the right to control common carriers engaged
in interstate cominerce in the matter of the selection of their
employis-so far as it may be necessary for the protectioan of
such commerce and the persons engaged in it, whether as
shippers, passengers or employ(s.
Counsel -rely on certain decisions, holding that a State had
no authority to enact legislation forbidding discriminatioil by
employers against members of labor organizations. 'Gillespie
v. The People, 188 Illinois, 176; State v. Julow, 129 Missofiri,
163; State v. Kreutzerberg (Wisconsin), 90 N: W. Rep. 1098.
The correctness of these decisions may be doubted. Such
statutes do not deprive the employer of any lawful right.
They simply protect the rights of the employds against invasion by the employer. The alleged right of the employer
is a right to interfere with the liberty of his employ&s because
they are in his service. See Davis v. State, 30 Ohio L. J. 342;
11 Ohio Dec. Reprint, 894.
The courts have nothing to do with the policy of legislation, the only question for them being as to the power of
Congress over the subject. United States v. Joint Traffic
Association,.171 U. S. 505. This statute does not come under
the exception intimated in that case in the case of "a possible
gross perversion of the principle" that Congress was the judge
of the necessity and propriety of legislation for the -proper
protection of interstate commerce. Lochner v. New York,
198 U. S. 45, discussed and distinguished.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the constitutionality of certain provisions
of the act of Congress of June 1, 1898, 30 Stat.-*24, c. 370,-

ADAIR v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. .

Opinion of the Court.

concerning carriers engaged in interstate commerce and their
employds.
By the first section of the act it is provided; "That the.
provisions of this act shall apply to any common carrier or
carriers and their officers,, agents, and employds, except masters of vessels and seamen, as defined in section 4612, Revised Statutes -of the United States, engaged in the transportation of passengers or property wholly by railroad, or
partly by railroad and partly by water, for a continuous
carriage or shipment, from one State or Territory of the United
States, or the District of Columbia, to any other State or
Territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia,
or from -any place in the United States to an adjacent foreign
country, or from any place in the United States through a
foreign country to any other. place in.the United States. The
term.'railroad' as used in this act shall include all bridges and
-ferries used or operated in connection with any railroad, and
also all the road in use by any corporation operating a railroad,
whether owned or operated under a contract, agreement or
lease; and the term ' transportation "shall include all instrumentalities of .shipment or carriage. The term 'employds'
as used in this act shall include all persons actually engaged
in any capacity in train operation or train service of any
description, and notwithstanding that the cars pon or in
which they are employed may be held and operated by the
carrier under lease or other contract: Provided, however, That
this act shall not be held to apply to employds of street railroads and shall apply only .to employ6s engaged in railroad
train service.' In every such case the carrier shall be responsible for the acts and defaults of such employos in the same manner and to the same extent as if said cars were owned by it and
said employds directly employed by it, and any provisions to
the contrary of any such lease or other contract shall be binding
only as between the parties thereto and shall not affect the
*obligations of said carrier either to the public or to the private
parties concerned."

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

The 2d, 3d; 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th sections relate
to the settlement, by means of arbitration, of controversies
concerning wages, hours of labor, or conditions of employment arising between a carrier subject to the provisions of
the act and its employ~s, which seriously interrupt or threaten
to interrupt the business of the carrier. Those sections prescribe the mode in which controvcrsies may be brought under
the cognizance of arbitrators, in what way the arbitrators may
be designated, and the effect of Gheir decisions. The first subdivision of § 3 contains a proviso, "that no employ6 shall be
compelled to render personal service without his consent."
The 11th section relates to the compensation and expenses
of the arbitrators.
By the 12th section the act of Congress of October 1, 1888,
25 Stat. 501, c. 1063, creating boards of arbitrators or commissioners for settling c0ntroversies and differences between railroad corporations and other common carriers engaged in interstate or territorial. transportation of persons or property and
their employds, was repealed.
The 10th section, upon which the present prosecution is
based, is in these words:
"That-any employer subject to the provisions of this act
and any officer, agent, or receiver of such employer, who shall
.require any employ6, or any person seeking employment, as
a condition of- such employment, to enter into an agreement,
either written or verbal, not to become or remain a member
of any labor corporation, association, or organization; or shall
threaten any employ6 with loss of employment, or shall unjustly
discriminate against any employd because of his membership
in such a labor corporation,association, or organization;or who
shall require any employd or any person seeking employment,
as a condition of such employment, to enter into a contract
whereby such employ6 or applicant for employment shall
agree to contribute to any fund -for charitable, social, or beneficial purposes; to release such employer from legal, liability for
any personal injury by 'reason .of any benefit received from

ADAIR v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. 8.

Opinion of the Court.

such fund beyond the proportion of the benefit arising from
the employer's contribution to such fund; or who'shall, after
.having discharged an employd, attempt or conspire to prevent
such employ6 from obtaining employment, or who shall, after
the quitting of an employ6, attempt or conspire to prevent
such employ6 from obtaining employment, -is hereby declared
to be guilty of. a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof
-in any court of. the United States of competent jurisdiction
in the district in which such offense was committed, shall be
punished for each offense by a fine of not less than one hundred •
dollars. and not more than one thousand dollars"'
It may -be observed in passing that while that section makes
it a crime against the United States to unjustly discriminate
against an employ6 of an interstate carrier because of his being
a member of a labor organization, it does not make it a crime
to unjustly discriminate against an employ6 of the carrier
because of his not being a member of such an organization.
The present indictment was in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Kentucky against
the defendant Adair. ,I
The first count alleged "that at and before the time hereinafter named the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company
is and was'a railroad corporation, duly organized and existing
by law and a common carrier engaged in the transportation
of passengers, and property. wholly by steam railroad for a
continuous carriage and shipment from one State of the United
States to another State of the United .States of America, that
is to say, from the State of Kentucky into the States of Ohio,
Indiana and Tennessee, and from the State of Ohio into the
State of Kentucky, and was at all times aforesaid and at'the
time of the commission of the offense hereinafter named, a.
common carrier, of, interstate commerce, and an employer,
subject to the. 'provisions of a certain act of Congress of the
United States of America, entitled, 'An. Act concerning carriers engaged in interstate commerce and. their employds,'
approved June 1, 1898, and said corporation was not at any

OCTOBER TERM, 1907..
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

time a street railroad corporation. That before and at the
time of the commission of. the offense hereinaftr named one
William Adair was an agent and employd of said common
carrier and employer, and was at all said times master me-.
chani*6 of said common carrier and employer in the district
aforesaid- and before and at the time hereinafter stated one
0. B. Coppage was an employd of said-common carrier and'
employer in the district aforesaid, and as such employd was at
all times hereinafter named actually engaged in the capacity
of locomotive fireman in train operation and train service for
said common carrier and employer in the transportation of
.passengers and property aforesaid, and was an employ6 of
said common carrier and employer actually engaged in said.
railroad transportation and train service aforesaid, to whom
the provisions of said act applied, and at the time of the cormission of the offense hereinafter named said 0. B. Coppage
was a member of a certain labor organization, known as the
Order of Locomotive Firemen, as he the'said William Adair
then and there well knew, a more particular description of said
organization and the members thereof is to the grand jurors
unknown."
* The specific charge in that count was "that said William
Adair; agent and employd of said common carrier and employer
as aforesaid, in the .district aforesaid, on and before the 15th.
day Of 0.ctober, 1906, did -unlawfully and unjustly discriminate
against saiA. 0. B. Coppage, employ6. as aforesaid,, by .then and
there discharging said 0. B. Coppage. from such employment
of said common carrier and employer, because of his membership in said labor organization,and thereby did unjustly discriminate against an employl of a common carrier and employer engaged in interstatecommerce because of his membership in a labor

organization; contrary to the forms of the statute in such cases
made.'and provided, and against the peace and.dignity of the
United States."
The second count repeated the general allegations of the
.first count'as to the character of the business of the Louisville

ADAIR v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

.and Nashville Railroad Company and the relations between
that corporation and Adair and Coppage. It charged "that
said William Adair, in the district aforesaid and within the
jurisdiction of this court, agent and employ6 of said common
carrier and employer aforesaid, on and before the 15th day
of October, 1906, did unlawfully threaten said 0. B. Coppage,
employ4 as aforesaid, with loss of employment, because of his
membership in said labor organization, contrary to the forms
of the statute in such cases made and provided, and against
the peace and dignity of the United States."
The accused Adair demurred to the indictment as insuffi-cient in law, but the demi~rrer was overruled. After reviewing
the authorities, in an elaborate opinion, the court held the
tenth section of the act of Congress to be'constitutional. 152
Fed. Rep. 737. The defendant pleaded not guilty, and after
trial a verdict was returned of guilty on the first count and a
judgment rendered that he pay to the United States a fine of
$100. We shall, therefore, say nothing as to the second count
of the indictment.
It thus appears that the criminal offense charged in the
count of the indictment upon which the defendant was convicted was, in substance and effect, that being an agent of a
railroad company engaged in interstate commerce and subject to .the provisions of the above act of, June 1, 1898, he
discharged one Coppage from its service because of his membership in a labor organization-noother ground for such discharge being alleged.
May Congress make it a criminal offense against the United
States--as by the tenth section of the act of 1898 it doesfor an agent or officer of an interstate carrier, having full authority in the premises from the carrier, to discharge an employ6 from service simply because of his membership in a labor
organization?
This question is admittedly one of importance, and has been
examined with dare and deliberation. And the court has
reached a conclusion which, in its judgment, is consistent

.172

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
,Opnion of th cot.

208 U.S.

with both the words and spirit of the Constitution and is sustained as well by-sound reason.

The first inquiry is.
whether the part of the tenth section of
the act of 1898 upon which the first count of the indictment
was based is repugnant to the Fifth Amendment of the Con-..
stitution declaring that no person shall be deprived of liberty
or property without due process of law. In our opinion that
section, ih the particular mentioned, is an invasion of the
.personal liberty, as well as of the right of property, guaranteed
by that Amendment. Such liberty 'and right embraces the
right to make contracts for the purchase of the labor of others
and equally the right to make 'contracts for the sale of
one's own labor; each right, however, being subject to the
fundamental condition that no contract, whatever its subject matter, can be sustained which the law, upon reasonable
grounds, forbids as inconsistent with the public interests or
as hurtful to the public order or as detrimental to the common
good. This court has said that "in every well-orderei society,
charged with the duty of conserving the safety of its members,
the..rights of the individual in respect 'of his liberty may, at
times, under the pressure of great dangers, be subjected to
such restraint, to be enforced by reasonable regulations, as the
safety of the general public may demand.?' Jacobson v. Massa-'
chusells, 197 U. S.'. 11, 29, and authorities there cited. Without stopping to consider what would have been the rights of
the railroad company under the Fifth Amendment, had it been
*indicted under the act of Congress, it is sufficient in this case
to say, that as agent of the railroad company and as such
responsible for the conduct of the business of one of its departments, it was the defendant Adair's right-and that right
inhered in his personal liberty, and was -also a right of property-to serve his employer as best he could, so long as he did
nothing that was reasonably forbidden by law as injurious to
the public interests. It was the right of the defendant to
prescribe the terms upon which the services of Coppage would
be accepted, and it was the right of Coppage to become or not,

ADAIR o. UNITED STATES.
" 208 U. 8.

Opinion of the Court..

as he chose, an employ6 of the railroad company upon the terms
offered to him. Mr. Cooley, in his treatise on Torts, p. 278,
well says: "It is a part of every man's civil rights that he be
left at liberty to refuse business relations with any person
whomsoever, whether the refusal rests upon reason; or is the
result of whim, .caprice, prejudice or malice. With his reasons
neither the public nor third persons have any legal concern.
It is also his right to have business relations with any one with
whom he can make contracts, and. if he is wrongfully deprived
of this right by others, he is entitled to redress."
In Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45, 53, 56, which involved the validity of a state enactment prescribing certain
maximum hours for labor in bakeries, and which made it a
misdemeanor for an employer..to require or permit an ernploy6
in such an establishment to work in excess of a given number
of hours each day, the court said: "The general right to make
a contract in relation to his business is part of the liberty of
the individual protected by the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Federal Constitution. AI1g4eger v. Louisiana, 165. U. S.
578. Under that provision no State can deprive any -person
of life,. liberty or property without due process of law.. The
right to purchase or to sell labor is part of the liberty-protectei
by this amendment, unless there are circumstances which exclude the right. There are, however,, certain powers, existing
in the.sovereignty of each State in the Union, somewhat vaguely.
termed police powers, the exact description and limitation of
which have not been attempted- by the courts. Those powers,
broadly stated and without, at present, any attempt at a more
specific limitation, relate to the safety, health, morals and general wclfare. of the public. Both property and liberty are held
on such reasonable conditions as may be imposed by.the goyerning power of the State in the exercise of those powers, and
with such conditions the Fourteenth Amendment was not
designed. to interfere. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U.. S. 62,3 In re
Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436; Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 86;
In every case that
..
In :re Converse, 137. U. S. 6 2 4
.

174

OCTOBER TEAM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

comes before this court, therefore, where legislation of this
character is concerned and-where the protection of the Federal
Constitution is sought, the question necessarily arises: Is this
a fair, reasonable and appropriate exercise of the police power
of the State, or is it an unreasonable, unnecessary and arbitrary interference with the right, of the individual to his
personal liberty or to enter into those contracts in relation
to labor vihicli may seem to him appropriate or necessary for
the support of himself and his family? Of course the liberty
of contract relating to labor includes' both parties to it. The
one has as much, right to purchase as the other to sell labor."
Although there was a difference of opinion in that case among
the members of the court as to certain propositions, there was
no disagreement as to the general proposition that there is a
liberty of, contract which cannot be unreasonably interfered
with by legislation. The minority were of opinion that the
business referred to in the New York statute was such as to
require regulation, and that as. the statute was not shown
plainly and palpably to have imposed an unreasonable restraint
upon freedom of contract, it should be regarded by the courts
as a. valid exercise of the State's power to care for the health
and safety of its people.
While, as already suggested, the rights of liberty and property guaranteed by the Constitution against deprivation without due process of law, is subject to such reasonable restraints
as -the common good or the general welfare may require, it is
not within the functions of government-at least in the absence of contract between the parties-to compel any person
in -the course of his business and against his will to accept or
retain the personal services of another, or 'to compel any person, against his will, to perform personal services for another.
The right of a person to sell his labor upon such terms as he
deems proper is, in its essence, the same as the right of the
purchaser of labo 'to prescribe the conditions upon which he
will accept such labor from the person offering to sell it. So'
the right of the employs to quit the service of the employer,

ADAIR v. UNITED STATES.
208 U.S.

175

Opinion of the Court.

for whatever reason, is the same as the tight of the employer,
for whatever reason, to dispense with the services of such
It was the legal right of the defendant Adairemploy.
however unwise.such a course might have been-to discharge
Coppage because of his being a member of a labor organization, as it was the legal right of Coppage, if he saw fit to do so
-however unwise such a course on his part might have beento quit the service in which he was engaged, because the defendant employed some persons who were not members of a
labor organization. In all such particulars the employer and
the employ6 have equality of right, and any legislation that
disturbs that equality is an arbitrary. interference with the
liberty of contract which no government can legally justify in
a free land. These views find support in adjudged cases, some
of which are cite-.1 in the margin. 1. Of course, if the parties by
contract fix the period of service, and prescribethe conditions
upon which the contract ma' be terminated, such contract
would control the rights of the parties as between themselves,
and for any violation of those provisions the party wronged
would have his appropriate civil action. And it may be-but
upon that point we express no opinion--that in the case of a.
labor contract between an employer engaged in interstate
commerce and his employ6, Congress could make it a crime, for
either party without sufficient or just excuse or notice to disregard the terms of such contract or to refuse to perform it.,
In the absence, however, of a valid contract between the parties controlling their conduct towards each other and fixing
a period of :service, it cannot be, we repeat, that an employer
is under any legal obligation, against his will, to retain an
employd in his personal service any more than an employ6
I People v. Marcus, 185 N. Y. 257; National Protection, Assn. v. Cummings, 170 N. Y. 315; JacobA v. Cohen, 183 N. Y- 207; State v. Julow, 129
Missouri, 163; State v. Goodwill, 33 W. Va. 179; Gillespie v. People, 188
Illinois, 176; State v. Kreutzberg, 114 Wisconsin, 530; Wallace v. Geogia,
C. & N. Ry. Co., 94 Georgia, 732; Hundley v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 105 Ken& Co., 101 Kentucky, 268; N. Y. &e.
.Sowa
tucky, 162; Brewster v. Miller's
R. R. Co. v. Schaffer, 65 Ohio St. 414; Arthur v. Oakes, 63 Fed. Rep. 310.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

can be compelled; against his will, to remain .in the personal
service of another. So far as this record discloses the facts
the defendzint, who seemed to have authority in the premises,
did not agree to keep Coppage in service for any particular
time, nor did Coppage agree to remain in such service a moment longer than he chose. The latter was *atliberty to quit
the service without assigning any reason for his leaving. And
the defendant was at liberty, in his discretion, to discharge
*Coppage from service without giving any reason for so doing.
* As the relations and the conduct of the parties towards each
other was not controlled by any contract other than a gendral
agreement on one side to accept the services of the employ6
and a general agreement on the other side to render services
to the employer-no term being fixed for the continuance of
th6. employment--Congress could not, consistently with the
Fifth Amendment, make it a crime against the United States
to.,discharge the employd because of his being a member of a
labor organization.
But it is suggested that the authority to make it a crime
for an agent or officer of an interstate carrier, having authority
in the premises from his principal, to discharge an employ6
from service to such carrier, simply because of his membership in a labor organization, can be referred to the power of
Congress to regulate interstate commerce,. without regard to
any question of personal liberty or right of property arising
under the Fifth Amendment. This f ggestion can have no
bearing in the present discussion ulweis the statute, in the
particular just stated, is within the meatning of the Oonstitu-'
tion a regulation of commerce among the States. If it'be not,
then clearly the Government cannot invoke the commerce
clause of the Constitution as sustaining the indictment against
Adair.
Let us inquire what is commerce, the power to regulate which

i given to Congress?
This question has1hen frequently propounded in this court,
and- the answer haA been---and no -more specific answer could

ADAIR v. UNITED STATES.
208 U.S.

J,77

Opinion of the Court.

well have been given-that commerce among the several.
States comprehends traffic,. intercourse, trade, navigation,..
communication, the transit of persons and the transmission
of messages by telegraph-indeed, every species of commercial
intercourse among the several States, but not to that' commerce "completely internal, which is carried on between man
and man, in a State, or between different pgrts of the same
St~tep,and which does not extend to or affect other States."
The power to regulate interstate commerce is the power to
-prescribe rules by which such commerce must be governed.
Of course, as has been often said, Congress ha a large discretion
in the selection or choice of the means to be employed in the
regulation of interstate commerce, and such. discretion is not
to be interfered with except where that which is done is in
.plain violation of the Constitution. Northern Securities Co.
v. United States, 193 U. S. 197, and authorities there cited.
In this connection we may refer to Johnson v. Railroad, 196
U. S. 1, relied on in argument, which case arose under the act
of Congres- of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat. 531, c. 196. That act
required carriers engaged in interstate commerce to equip their
cars used in such commerce with automatic -couplers and.
continuous brakes, and their locomotives with driving wheel
brakes. But the act upon its face showed that -its object was
to promote the safety of employds and travelers upon uailroads; and this court sustained -its validity upon the ground
that it manifestly had reference to. interstate commerce and
was calculated to subserve the interests of such commerce by
affording protection to employ6s and travelers. It was held
that there was a substantial connection between the object
sought to be attained by the act and the means provided to
adcomplish that object. So, in regard to Employers' LiabilI Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Paisenger 'asee, 7 How. 283; Almy v.State ol California, 24 How. 169; Pensacola 'Tel. Co. v. Western Union Tel.
Co., 96 U. S. 1, 9, 12; County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691; Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Pendle.on, 122 U. S. 347,356; Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321,

States, 193 U. S. 197; Employers' Lio
352; Northern Securities Co. v. lUjtfed
bility Cases, 207 U. S. 463.

VOL. covii-12

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

ity Cases, 207 U. S. 463, decided at the present 'term. In
that case the court sustained the authority of Congress, under
its po wer to regulate interstate conmmerce, to prescribe the
rule of liability, as between interstate carriers and its employ~s in such interstate commerce, in cases of personal injuries received by employos while actually engaged in such
commerce. The decision on this point was placed on the
ground that a rule of that character would have direct reference to the conduct of interstate commerce, and would,
therefore, be within the competency of Congress to establish
for commerce among the States, but not as to commerce
completely internal to a State. Manifestly, any rule prescribed
for the conduct of interstate commerce, in order to be within
the competency of Congress under its power to regulate commerce among the States, must have some real or substantial
relation to or connection. with the commerce regulated. But
what possible legal or logical connection is there between an
employ6's membership in a labor organization and the carrying on of interstate commerce? Such relation to a labor
organization cannot have, in itself and in the eye of the law,
any bearing upon the commerce with which the employ6 is
connected by his labor and services. Labor associations, we
assume, are organized for the general purpose of improving
or bettering the conditions and conserving the interests of its
members as wage-earners-an object entirely legitimate and
to be commended rather 'than condemned. But surely those
associations as labor organizations have nothing to do with
interstate commerce as such. One who engages in the service
of'.an interstate carrier will, it must be assumed, faithfully
perform his duty, whether he be a member or not a member
of a labor organization. - His fitness for the position in which
he labors and his diligence in the discharge of his duties cannot
in law or sound reason-depend in any degree upon his being.
or not being.a member of a labor organization.' It cannot be
assumed that his fitness is assured, or his diligence increased,.
by such membership, or that he is less fit or less diligent be-

ADAIR v. UNITED STATES.

179

;Opinion of the Court.

208 U. B.

cause of his not being a member of such an organization. It
is the employ6 as a man and. not as a member of a labor: or-.
ganization who labors in the service of -an interstate carrier.
Willit be said that the provision in question had its origin
in the apprehension, on the part of Congress, that' if -it did not
show more consideration for members of labor organizations
than for wage-earners who.were not members of such organizations;' or if it did not insert in the statute some shch provision
as the one here in question, members of labor organizations
would, by illegal or violent measures" interrupt or impair the
-freedom of commerce among the States? We will not indulge
in any such conjectures, nor make them, in whole or in part,
the basis of our decision. We could not do so consistently with
the respect due to a co6rdinate department of ,the Government. We could not do so without imputing to Congress the
purpose to accord to one class of wage-earners privileges withmay be;
held from another class of kiage-earners 'engaged, "it
in the same kind of labor' and serving the. same employer.
Nor will we assume, in our consideration of this case,' that
members of labor organizations will, in 'any considerable numbers, resort to illegal methods for accomplishing any particular
object they have in view.
Looking alone at the words of the statute for the purpose
of ascertaining its scope and effect, and of determining .its
validity, we .hold that there is no such conneetion between'.
interstate commerce and membership in -alabor organization
as to authorize Congress to make it a crime against the United
States for an agent of an interstate carrier to discharge an employ6 because of such membership on his part. If such a power"
exists in' Congress it is difficult to percei.ve why it 'night
not, by absolute rqgulation, require interstate carriers, under
penalties. t employ, in the conduct of its interstate business
only members of labor organizations, or only those who are not
members of such organizations-a power which could not be
recognized as existing under the Constitution of the United
States. No such rule of criminal liability as that to which
/J.

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
McKSNNA, J., dissenting.

208 U. S.

we have referred can be regarded, as, in any just sense, -a
regulation of interstate commerce. We need scarcely repeat
what this court has more than once said, that the power to
regulate interstate commerce, great and paramount as that
power is, cannot be exerted in violation of any fundamental
right secured by other provisions of the Cdhstitution. Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196; Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, 353.
It results, on the whole case, that the provision of the statute
under which the defendant was convicted must be held to be
repugnant to the Fifth Amendment and as not embraced by.
nor' within the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce, but under the guise of regulating interstate commerce
and as applied to this case it arbitrarily sanctions an illegal
invasion of the personal liberty as well as the right of property
of the defendant Adair.
We add that since the part of the act of 1808 upon which tlhe
first count of the indictment is based, and upon which alone
the defendant. was convicted, is severable from its other parts,
and as what has been said is sufficient to dispose of the present
case, we are not called upon to consider other and independent
provisions of the act, such, for instance, as the provisions
relating to arbitration. This decision is therefore restricted
to the question of the validity of the particular provision in
the act of Congress making it a.crimne against the United States
for an agent or officer of an interstate carrier to discharge an
employ6 from its service because of his being a member of a
labor organization.
The judgment must be reversed, with directions, to set aside
the verdict and judgment of conviction, sustain the demurrer
to the indictment, and dismiss the case.
It is so ordered.
MR. J .JSTTCE MOODY did not participate in the decision of

this case.
.MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, dissenting.

The opinion .of the court proceeds upon somewhat narrow

ADAIR v. UNITED STATES.
208 U.S.

181
1

MCKENA, J., dissenting,

lines and either omits or does not give adequate prominence
to the considerations *hich, I think, are determinative of the
questions in the case. The principle upon which the opinion.
is grounded is, as I understand it, that a labor organization
has no legal or logical connection with interstate commerce,
and that the fitness of an employ6 has no dependence or relation with his membership in such organization. It i hence
concluded that to restrain his .discharge merely on account of
such membership is an invasion of the liberty of the carrier
guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment of 1h Constitution of
the United States. The conclusion is irresistible if the propositions from which it is deduced may be viewed .as abstractly.
as the opinion views them. May they be so viewed?
A summary of the act is necessary to understand § 10.
Detach that section from the other provisions of the act and
it might be open to condemnation.
. The, first section of the act designates the carriers to whom
it shall apply. The second section makes it the duty of the
Chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission and the
Commissioiier of Labor, in case of a dispute between carriers'
and their employ~s which threatens to interrupt the business
of the carriers, to put themselves in communication with the
parties to the controversy and use efforts to "mediation and
conciliation." -If the efforts fail, then § 3 provides for the
appointment of a board of arbitration--one to be named
by the carrier, one by the labor organization to which the
employ6s belong, and the two thus chosen shall select a
third.
There is a provision that if the employds belong to different
organizations they shall concur in the selection of the arbitrator.
The board is to give hearings; power is invested in the board
to summon witnesses, and provision is made for filing the
award in' the clerk's office of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district where the controversy arose. Other
sections complete the scheme of arbitration thus outlined,
and make, as far as possible, the proceedings of the arbitrators

OCTOBER TERM; 1907.
MCKENNA, J., dissenting.

208 U. S.

judicial, and pending them put restrictions on the parties and
damages for violation of the restrictions..
Even from this meager outline may be perceived the justification and force of § 10. It prohibits discrimination by a
carrier engaged. in interstate commerce, in the employment
under the circumstances hereafter mentioned or the discharge
from employment of members of labor organizations "because
of such membership." This the Opinion condemns. The actions
prohibited, it is asserted, are part of the liberty of a carrier
protected by the Constitution of the United States from limitation or regulation. I may observe that the declaration is clear
and unembarrassed by any material benefit to the carrier from
its exercise. It may be exercised with reason or without rea.son, though the business of the carrier- is of public concern.
This, then, is the contention, and I bring its elements into bold
relief to submit against them what I deem to be stronger considerations, based on the statute and sustained by authority.
I take for granted that the expressions of the opinion of the
court, which seem to indicate that the provisions of § 10 are
illegal because their violation is made criminal, are used only
for description and incidental emphasis, and not as the essential
ground of the objections to those provisions.
I may assume at the outset that the liberty guaranteed by
the Fifth Amendment is not a liberty free from all restraints
and limitations, and this must be so or government could not
be beneficially exercised in many cases. Therefore in judging
of any legislation which imposes restraints or limitations the
inquiry must be, what is their purpose and is the purpose within
one of the powers of government? Applying this principle
immediately to the present case without beating about inthe
abstract, the inquiry must be Whether § 10 of the act of Congress has relation .to the purpose which induced the act and
which it was enacted to accomplish, and whether such purpose
is in aid of interstate commerce and not a mere restriction upon
the liberty of carriers to employ whom they please, Or to have
business relations with whom they please. In the inquiry there

ADAIR v. UNITED STATES.

208 U. S.

McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

is necessarily involved a definition of interstate commerce and
of what is a regulation of it. As to the first, I may concur with
the opinion; as to the second, an immediate and guiding light
is afforded by the Employers' Liability Cases, recently decided, 207 U. S. 463. In those cases there was a searching
scrutiny of the powers of Congress, and it was held to be competent to establish a new rule of liability of the carrier to his
employds-in a word, competent to regulate the relation of
master and servant, a relation apparently remote from commerce, and one which was earnestly urged by the railroad to
be remote from commerce. To the contention the court said:
"But we may not test the power of Congress to regulate commerce solely by abstractly considering the broad subject to
which a regulation relates, irrespective of whether the regulation in question is one of interstate commerce. On the contrary, the test of power is not merely the matter regulated,
but whether the regulation is directly one of interstate commerce or is embraced within the grant conferred on Congress
to use all lawful means necessary and appropriate to the execution of that power to regulate commerce." In other words,
that the power is not confined to a regulation of the mere
movement of goods or persons.
And there are other examples in our decisions--examples,
too, of liberty of contract and liberty of forming business relations (made conspicuous as grounds of decision ih the present
case)-which were compelled to give way to the power of Congress. Northern Securities Company v. United States, 193 U. S.
197. In that case exactly the same definitions wexre made as'
made here and the same contentions were pressed as are pressed
here. The Northern Securities Company was not a railroad
company. Its corporate powers were limited to buying, selling and holding stock, bonds and other securities, and, it was
contended, that as sueh business was not commerce at all it
could not be vithin the power of Congress to. regulate. The
contetiieon was not yielded to, though it had the support of
members of this court. Asserting the application of the Anti-

.184

4CTOBER TERM, 1907.
McKENNA,

J.,
dissenting.

208 U. S.

Trust Act of 1890 to such business and the power of Congress
tregulate it, -the court said "that a sound construction of the
t..o
Constitution allows to Congress a large discretion 'with respect
to the means by which the powers it [the comiperce clause] confers are to be carried into execution, which enables that body
to perform.the high duties assigned to it, in the manner most
beneficial to the people.'.". It was in recognition of this principle that it was declared in United..States v. Joint Traffic Associhtion, 171 U. S. 571: "The prohibition of such contracts
[contracts fixing rates] may in the judgment of Congress be
one of the reasonable necessities of proper regulation of commerce, and CongAess is the judge of such necessity and propriety,
unless, in case of - possible gross perversion of the principle, the
courts might be applied to.for relief. 1 The contentions of the
paties in the case invoked the declaration.. There as here an
opposition was asserted between the liberty of the railroads
to contract with one another and the power of Congress to
regulate commerce. That power was pronounced paramount,
and it was not perceived, as it seems to be perceived now, that
it was subordinate and controlled by the provisions of the
Fifth Amendment. Nor was the relation of the power of Congress to that amendment overlooked. It was commented upon
and reconciled. And there is nothing whatever in Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, or in Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, which is to
the contrary.
* From -these considerations we may pass to an inspection of
the statute of which § 10 is'a part, and inquire as to its purpose, and if the means which it employs has relation to that
purpose, and to interstate commerce. The provisions of the
act- are. explicit and present a :well coordinated plan for the
settlement of disputes between carriers and their employds,
by bringing th disputes to arbitration and accommodation,
and thereby prevent strikes and the public disorder and derangement of business that 'may be consequent upon them.
I submit no*worthier purpose can engage -legislative attention
or be the object of legislative action, and, it might be urged,

ADAIR v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

McKzNNA, J., dissenting.

to attain which-the congressional judgment of meansshould not
be brought under a rigid limitation and condemned,-if it!c6ntribute in.any degree to the end, as a "gross perversion of the
principle" of regulation, the condition which, it was said in
United States v. Joint Traffic Association, supra, might justify
an appeal to the courts.
We are told that labor associations are to be commended.
May not then Congress recognize their existence; yes, and
recognize their power as. conditions to be counted with in
framing its legislation? Of what use -would it be to fattempt
to bring bodies of men to agreement and compromise of con-.
troversies if you put out of view .the influences which move
them or -the fellowship which binds them-maybe controls
and impels them-whether rightfully or wrongfully, to make
the cause of one the cause of all? And this practical wisdom
Congress observed---observed, I may say, not in speculation
of uncertain provision of evils, but in -experience of evilsan experience which approached to the dimensions of a National calamity. The facts of history should not be overlooked,
nor the colrse of legislation. The act involved in the present
case was preceded by one enacted in 1888 of similar purport.
25 Stat. 501, c. 1063. That act did not recognize labor associations, or distinguish between the members of such associations and the other employ~s of carriers. It failed in its
purpose, whether from defect in its provisions or other cause
we may only. conjecture. At any rate, it did not avert the
strike at Chicago in 1894. Investigation followed, aid, as a
result of it, the act of 1898 was finally passed. Presumably its
provisions and remedy were addressed to the mischief which
the act of 1888 failed to reach or avert. It was the judgment
of Congress that the scheme of arbitration might be helped
by engaging in it the labor- assbciations. Those associations
unified bodies of employ~s inevery. department of the carriers,
and this unity, could be an obstacle or an: aid to arbitration.
It was attempted to be made an aid, but how could it be made
an aid if, pending the efforts of " mediation and conciliation"

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
MCKENNA, J.,

dissenting.

208 U. S.

of the dispute, as provided in § 2 of the act, other provisions
of the act may be arbitrarily disregarded,, which are of concern to the members in the dispute? How can it be an aid,
how can controversies which may seriously interrupt or
threaten to interrupt the business of carriers (I paraphrase the
words of the statute), be averted or composed if the carrier
can bring on the conflict or prevent its amicable settlement by
the exercise of mere whim and caprice? I say mere whim or
caprice, for this is the liberty which is attempted to be vindicated as the Constitutional right of the carriers. And it may
be exercised in mere whim and caprice. If ability, the qualities
of efficient and faithful workmanship can be found outside of
labor associations, surely they may be found inside of them.
Liberty is an attractive theme, but the, liberty. which is exercised in sheer antipathy does not plead strongly for recognition.
There is no question here of the right of a carrier to mingle
in his service "union" and "non-union" men. If there were,
broader considerations might exist. In such a right there
would be no discrimination for the "union" and no discrimination against it. The efficiency of an employ6 would be its
impulse and ground of exercise.
I need not stop to conjecture whether Congress could or
would limit such right. It is certain that Congress has not
done so by any provision of the act under consideration. Its
letter, spirit and purpose are decidedly the other way. It
imposes, however, a restraint , which should be noticed. The
carriers may not require an applicant for employment or an
employd to agree not to become or remain a member of a labor
.organization. But this does not constrain the employment
of anybody, be he what he may.
But it is said it cannot be supposed that labor organizations
will, "by illegal or iolent measures, interrupt or impair the
freedom of commerce," and to so suppose would be disrespect
to a cci6rdinate branch of the Government and to impute to
it a purpose "to accord to one class of wage- arners privileges
withheld from another class of wage-earners engaged, it may

ADAIR Vi. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

MCIENNA, J., dissen.ting.

be, in the same kind of labor and serving the same employer."
Neither the supposition nor the disrespect is necessary, and, it'
may be urged, they are n6 more invidious than to impute to
Congress a careless or deliberate or purposeless violation of
the Constitutional rights of the carriers. Besides, the legislation is to be accounted for. It, by its letter, makes a difference
between members of labor organizations and. other employds
of carriers.- If it did not, it would not be here for review.
What did Congress mean? Had it no purpose? Was it moved
by no cause? Was its legislation mere wantonness and an
aimless meddling with the commerce -of the country?. These
questions may find their answers in In re Dels, 158 U. S. 564.
I have said that it is not necessary to suppose that labor
organizations will violate the law, and it is not. Their power.
may be effectively exercised without violence or illegality, and
it cannot be disrespect to Congress to let a committee of the
Senate speak for it and tell the reason and purposes of its legislation. The Committee on Education in its report said of the
bill: 'The measure under consideration may properly be called
a voluntary- arbitration bill, having for its object the settlement of disputes between capital and labor, as far as the
interstate transportation companies are concerned. The necessity for the bill arises from the calamitous results in the way
of ill-considered strikes arising from the tyranny of capital
or the unjust demands of labor organizations, whereby the
business of the country is brought'to a standstill and thousands
of employds, with their helpless wives and children, are confronted with starvation." And, concluding the report, said:
"It is our opinion that this bill, should it became a law, would
reduce to a minimum labor strikes which affect interstate commerce, and we therefore recommend its passage."
With the report was submitted a letter from the Secretary
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, which expressed the
judgment of that body, formed, I may presume, from, experience of the factor'in the problem. The letter said: "With
the corporations as employers on one side and the organiza-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
'MCKENNA, J., diasenting.

208 U. S.

tions of railway employ6s as the other, there will be a measure
of equality of power and force which will surely bring about
the essential requisites of friendly relation, respect, consideration, and forebearance." And again: "It has been shown
before the labor commission of England that. where the associations are strong enough to command the respect of their
employers the relations between employer and employ6 seem
most amicable. For there the employers have learned the
practical convenience of treating with one thoroughly representative body instead of with isolated fragments of workmen;
and the labor associations have learned the limitations of their
powers."
It is urged by defendant in error that "there is a marked
distinction between a power to regulate commerce and a power
to regulate the affairs of an individual or corporation engaged
in such commerce," and how can it be, it is asked, a regulation
of commerce to prevent a carrier from selecting his employ~s
or constraining him to keep in his service those whose loyalty
to him is "seriously impaired, if not destroyed, by their prior
allegiance to their labor unions"? That the power of regulation extends to the persons engaged in interstate -commerce
is settled by decision. Employers' Liability Cases, 207-U. S.
463, and the cases cited in Mr. Justice Moody's dissenting
opinion. The other proposition points to no evil or hazard of
evil, Section 10 does not constrain the employment of incompetent workmen and gives no encouragement or protection
to the disloyalty of an employ6 or to deficiency in his work or
duty. If guilty of either he may be instantly discharged- without incurring any penalty under the statute.
Counsel also makes a great deal of the difference between
direct and indirect effect upon interstate -commerce, and assert that § 10 is an indirect regulation at best and not within
-the power of Congress to enact. Many cases are cited, which,
it is insisted, sustain the contention. I cannot take time to
review the cases. I have already alluded to the contention,
and it 'is enough to say that it gives too much isolation to § 10.

ADAIR v. UNITED STATES.
20B U. S.

McKErNA, J., disaenting.

The section is part of the means to secure and make effective
the scheme of. arbitration set forth in the statute. The contention, besides, is completely answered by Employers' Liability Cases, supra. In that case, as we have seen, the power
of Congress was exercised -to establish a rule of liability of a
carrier to his employds for personal injuries received in his
service. It is manifest that the kind or extent of such liability
is neither traffic nor intercourse, the transit of persons or the
carrying of things. Indeed such liability may have wider
application than-to carriers. It may exist in a factory; it may
exist on a farm, and in both places, or in commerce-its. direct
influence might be hard to find or describe. And yet this court
did not hesitate to pronounce it to be within the power of
Congress to establish. "The primary object," it was said in
Johnson v. Railroad, 196 U. S. 17, of the safety appliance act,
"was to promote the public welfare by securing the safety of
employ~s and travelers." The rule of liability for injuries is
even more round about in its influence on commerce and as
much so as the prohibition of § 10. To contend otherwise seems
to me to be an, oversight of the proportion of things. A -provision of law which will prevent or tend to prevent the stoppage
of every wheel in every car of an entire railroad' system certainly has as direct influence on interstate commerce -as the
way in which one car may be coupled to another, or the rule of
liability for personal injuries to an employ6. It also seems to
me to be an oversight of the proportions of things to contend
that in order to encourage a policy of arbitration between
carriers and their employds which may prevent'a disastrous in-'
terruption of commerce,. the derangement of business, and even
greater evils to the public welfare, Congress cannot restrain the
discharge of an employd, and yet can, to enforce a policy of
unrestrained competition between railroads, prohibit reasonable
agreements between them as to the rates at which merchandise
shallbe carried: And mark the contrast of what is prohibited.
In the one case the restraint, it may be, of a whim-certainly
of nothing that affects the ability of an employd to perform his

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HOLMES, J., dissenting.

208 U. S.

duties; nothing, therefore, which is of any material interest to
the carrier; in the other case a restraint of a carefully considered policy which had as its motive great material interests
and benefits to the railroads, and, in the opinion of many, to
the public. May such action be restricted, must it give way
to the public welfare, while the other, moved, it may be, by
prejudice and antagonism, is intrenched impregnably in the
Fifth Amendment of the Constitution against regulation in the
public interest.
I would not be misunderstood. I grant that there are rights
which can have no material measure. There are rights which,
when exercised in a private business, may not be disturbed or
limited. With them we are not concerned. We are dealing
with rights exercised in a quasi-public business and therefore
subject to control in the interest of the public.
I think the judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES,

dissenting.

I also think that the statute is constitutional, and but for
the decision of my brethren I should have felt pretty clear
about it.
As we all know, there are special labor unions of men engaged in the service of carriers. These unions exercise a direct
influence upon the employment of labor in that business, upon
the terms of such employment and upon the business itself,
Their very existence is directed specifically to the business, and
their connection with it is at least as intimate and important
as that of safety couplers, and, I should think, as the liability
of master to servant, matters which, it is admitted, Congress
might regulate, so far as they concern comhmerce among the
States. I suppose that it hardly would be denied that some
of the relations of railroads with unions of railroad employos
are clogely enough connected with commerce to justify legislation by Congress. If so, legislation to prevent the exclusion
of such unions from employment, is sufficiently near.

ADAIR v. UNITED STATES.

191"

Ho z. , J., daimenting.

208 U.S.

The ground on which this particular law is held bad is not
so much that it deals with matters remote from commerce
among the%States, as that it interferes with the, paramount
individual rights, secured by the Fifth Amendment." The section is, in substance, a very limited interference with freedom
of contract, no more. It does not require the carriers to employ any one. It does not forbid them to refuse to employ
any one, for any reason they deem good, even where the
notion of a choice of persons is a fiction and wholesale, employment is necessary upon general principles that it might
be proper to control. The section simply prohibits the more
powerful party to exact certain undertakings, or to threaten
dismissal or unjustly*discriminate on certain grounds against
those already employed. r hardly can suppose that the
grounds on which a contract lawfully may be made to end are
less open to regulation than other terms. So I turn to the
general question whether the employment can be regulated
at all. I confess that I think that the right to make contracts
at will that has been derived from the word liberty- in the
amendments has been stretched to its extreme by the decisions; but they agree, that sometimes the right may b restrained. Where there is, or generally is believed to be, an
important ground of public policy for restraint the Constitution does not forbid it, whether this court agrees or disagrees
with the policy pursued. It cannot be doubted that to prevent strikes, and, so far as possible, to foster its scheme of
arbitration, might be deemed by Congress An important point
of policy, and I think it impossible to say that Congress might
not reasonably think that-the provision in questi6n would help
-

a good deal to carry its policy along.

But suppose the only

effect really were to tend to bring about the complete unionizing of such railroad laborers as Congress can deal with, I
think"that object alone would justify the act. I quite agree
that the question, what and how much good labor unions do,
is one on which intelligent people may differ,-I think that
laboring 'men sometimes attribute to'them advantages, as

192

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

many attribute to combinations of capital disadvantages, that
really arc due to economic conditions of a far wider and deeper
kind-but I could qot pronounce it unwarranted if Congress
should decide that to foster a ostrong union was for the best
interest, not only of the men, but of-the railroads and the

country at large.

BRAXTON COUNTY COURT v. THE STATE OF WEST
VIRGINIA ex rel. THE STATE TAX COMMISSIONERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEAL$ OF THE STATE OF
WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 124.

Submitted January 14. 108.-Decided January 27, 108.

Speaking generally, and subject to the rule that no State can set at naught
* the provisions of the National Constitution, the regulation of municipal
corporations is-peculiarly within state control, the legislature determining tOe taxing body, the taxing districts, and the limits of taxation.
NotWithstanding thiat plaintiff in error's charge of unconstitutionality of a
state statute may not be frivolous, in order to give this court jurisdiction
to review the action of the state court sustaining the statute the question
must be raised in this court by one adversely affected by the decision and
whose interest is personal and not of an. official nature; Smith, Auditor,
v. Indiana, 191 U. S. 138.
A county court of West Virginia has no personal interest in the amount
of: tax levy made by it which will give this court jurisdiction to review
at its instance the decision of the highest court of that State determining that the levy is excessive, even ,though the basis of. request for review is the ground that the reduction of the assessment leaves the county
unable for lack of funds to fulfill- the obligations of its contracts.
60 Wesb Virginia, 339, affirmed,

7 and.8, article 10, of the West Virginia constitution of 1872 pr.ohibit the county authorities, except in certain.
specified cases,, from, levying taxes in, excess. of ninety-five
cents per $100 valuation. In. 1904 the valuation of property
in Braxton County was. $2,799,604. -The state legislature, at
.SECTIONS

