UGUBANKS t. ARMSTRONG,

481

Syllabua..

208 U.S.

The question involved is, as counsel for appellants admits,
identical 'with, that which has just been. decided in the foregoing case, No. .113, and for the reasons therein stated the:
judgment of the Circuit Court is

Affirmed.
UGHBANKS . ARMSTRONG, WARDEN. OFTHE MICHIGAN STATE. PRISON.
ERROR TO TE SUPRENE COURT OF THE STATE OF P4ICHIGAN.
No. 4W.. Submitted

iiary 20. 1908.-Dwodd February 24.19

.

The indeterminate sentence law of Michigan- of 1903; as -construed and
sustained according to its own constitution, by the highet co'urt of that
,State; does not violate any provision of the Federal C6&titution. -It is
of a character similar to the Illinois act, sustained by this court in Dreye,
Iinois,.
lv.
187 U.;S. 71.
When a subsequently enacted criminal lav: is more drastic than. the exist ,
big law which in terms is repealed thereby, the claim that it is iz Psoi 1o
'as to one 'imprisoned under the former law and', therefore void; and that
-the earlier law being repealed he cannot be held thereunder, has no force
in this court where the state court hdas'held -that the later law does not
repea the earlier law, as to those sentenced thereunder: Im huch a case
'this court follows the construction of the state court,
The Sixth and. Eighth 'Amendments to the' Federal Constitution' do not
'limit the power of the State.
The Fourteenth Amendment to"the Federal Constitution does not limalt
•the power of the State in dealing with crime- committed within its own
borders or with the punishment thereof. But a State must not deprive
particular'persons 'or classes'of persons 'of equal and -impartial justice.'
This court follows the' construction' of an * indeterminate sentence law by.
'the.highest court 'of th e State, to the 'ffect. that where the.maximum
term of imprisonment for a crime has been fixed by statute a maximum
"termfixed by the codt of'a shorter period issimmply void.
The granting of favors by a State to criminals in its prisons. is 'entirely a
matter.of policy, to be. determined by thb legislature, which may attach,.
thereto such conditions as it sees fit, and where it places the granting
of' such favors in tlhe diseftio, of- an executive officer it is not bound to
give 'the convict applying therefor a.hearing.
The.provision in thendeter6minate law' of Michigan of 1903, excepting.
'prisoners .twice sentepiced before 'from the priv iege -of parole, extended.,
in ,the discretion of the Executive! to prisoners after the expiration 'of
..
voL. Cov1u-31 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

taeir minimum sentence, does not deprive convicts of the excepted class
of their liberty without due process of law, or deny to them the equal
protection of the laws.

Tins writ of error brings up a judgment of the Supreme Court

of Michigan, denying the application of the plaintiff in error
for a writ of habeas corpus, to inquire into the cause of his detention in, and to obtain his -discharge from, the state prison
at Jackson.
It appears from the record that on the seventeenth of Mar a,
1904, the plaintiff in error was proceeded against in the ircuit Court for the county of Washtenaw, in the State of Michigan, on an information filed by the prosecuting attorney for
that county, charging the plaintiff in error with having committed the crime of burglary. on the fifteenth of March, 1904.
Upon being arraigned upon such information he pleaded guilty
and was, on the day mentioned, sentenced under the indeterminate sentence act of the State to be confined in the state
prison at Jackson at hard labor for a period not less than
one year and not-more than two years. Public acts of Michigan, May 21, 1903; No. 136, p. 168. His term of imprisonment,
counting the maximum period for which he was sentenced,
ended, as he asserts, on March 17, 1906, even without any de'
duction for good behavior.
In his, petition for, the. writ plaintiff in error stated that b,
.the record kept and retained by the warden of the Michigan
state prison at Jackson it'appeared, as plaintiff in error was.
advised, that he had been twice- before convicted of felony,
and that he had served four years in Kingston, Canada, .and
four years in Jackson, Michigan, on account thereof, and that
he was a resident of Canada and had never resided in the
State of Michigan or. in the United States.
He made application at the- end of the minimum term of.
his sentence to the. advisory board, provided for by § 4 of the
above act, for his discharge on parole, but he was notified that
his application could not be heard or considered for the reas'on*

UGHBANKS v ARMSTRONG.
208 U.S.

483

Argument for Plaintiff in Error..

that it appeared that he had been twice before convicted of a
felony, and the' act provides that no persoi who has been twice
previously .convicted of a felony shall be eligible to parole.
After the expiration of the maximum term named in the
sentence, 'being still detained in prison under the claim that
the law provided a maximum term 'of imprisonment of five
.years in such a case as his, which term had'not elapsed, the
plaintiff in-error applied to the Supreme Court of Michigan for
a writ of habeas corpus to. obtain his discharge, and upon the
denial of the application brought the case here.
Mr. John B. Chaddock and Mr. George E. Nichols for plaintiff in error:
By the very language of the constitutional amendment and
the resolution which preceded, it is evident that. the legislature
and the people must have intended to obtain power, through
this amendment,, to pass indeterminate sentence laws, as such
laws are generally understood and accepted. The power -of
the legislature,- therefore, was limited to the passage of such
an indeterminate sentence law as -was. contemplated by the
framers of the amnlment.
It follows that any statute enacted under this constitutional
amendment, which permits the imposition of any punishment,
other than an indeterminate sentence, as contemplated thereby,
is in violation of., the constitutional amendment, and if it violates the provisions, or any of them, of the Federal Constitution; the acts are -void, and all sentences pronounced under
them are invalid, and the party restrained of his liberty thereby
is entitled to his discharge, especially as in this, case, if he has
served his minimum sentence.
Both acts referred to not only- authorize the impdsition of
a sentence, which in no sense of the word can be classed as
indeterminate, but the machinery of the law for carrying the
sentenc into effect violates the, state, as well as the Federal,
Constitution, and deprives the citizen of his iberty.without
due process of law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument' for Plaintiff in Error.

208 U. 8.

While the indeterminate sentence act says in terms that it

shall apply to every sentence thereafter inposed, with only
the two exceptions of persons sentenced for life, and children
under fifteen years of age, yet it later provides that no prisoner
who has bein twiqe previously convicted of a felony shall be
eligible to parole under the provisions of the act. See act 136,
Public acts 1903, §§ 1, 4. Thus although plaintiff in error
was sentenced as the law required under act 136, yet he cannot, if the charge against him be. true, have any of its benefits
or advantages..
If it is due process of law forthe executive to determine.and
fix the. period for which a person convicted of'crime shall remain in prison, upon the conduct of the prisoner while in prison,
and if such process meets 'the requirements of the punishment
authorized by the constitutional amendment, -providing for
an indeterminate sentence, in one case; it does in all cases. The.
opportunity to earn release by good conduct is an essential
.feature of the indeterminate sentence amendment to the consfitution-. The power to'limit and abridge, this opportunity inTo withhold.
either case implies the right to. deny it:entirely.
in one case what has been granted as right in other andsimilar
*cases, is unjust and a grievous .discrimination, "contrary to
§'1 of the -Fourteenth Amendment. :If all persons must be
sentenced -under th'e law,. then it'should apply- equally to all.
Se, Easton v.
ztale,
11 Arkansas, 481.:
The act of 1903 (act 136 of Public acts-of 1903); under which
plaintiff in, error was .sentenced, having been_ repealed by. the
act of .1905 (§ 17, act i84, Public acts of 1905), the only color
6f right which the warden now has to hold the plaintiffin error
,is under the act of 1905, and the latter act being ex post facto
-as:to him, his detention is unlawful as in violation of the Constitution of the"United States: The new .ct undoubtedly alters
the situation of the prisoner 'to his detriment and so bringsthe case within the authorities. Ex parte'Med/ey, 134 U. S.
164; ln the Matter of ,Canfild, 98 Michigan, 644;, Murphy v.
Com., 52 N. E. Rep. 505; In re Murphy,.87. Fed. Rep. 549;

UGHBANKS t. ARMSTRONG,,
208 U.a.

485

Opinion of the Court.

Crin v. State, 107 U.. S. 221; State v. Tyree, 77 Pac. -Rep.
290.
Mr. John E. Bird, Attorney General of the State of Michigan,
and Mr. Henry E. Chase, for defendant in &rror.
MR. JUSTICE PECKEAM, after making the foregoing statement,,
deliveiled the opinion of the court.

An act providing for an indeterminate sentence was first
passed in Michigan on July 1, 1889, No. 228, p. 337, and was
declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of that State.
People v. Cummings, 88 Michigan, 249. A constitutional
amendment was subsequently adopted (1901), which authorized
the legislature to provide for an indeterminate sentence law,
as punishment for crime, on conviction thereof. Art. 4, §47,
.constitution of Michigan, as amended. See Laws of 1903,
p. 452. Under the authority of this amendment the legislature,
in 1903, passed act No. 136 of 'the public. acts of that year.
This act was held to be valid. In re Campbell, 138 Michigan,
597; In re-Duff, 141 Michigan, 623. An act of a character very
similar has been held to violate no provision of the Federal
Constitution.. Dreyer v. Illinois, 187 U. S. 71. While the act in
question here was in force the crime of plaintiff in error was
committed, and on the seventeenth of March, 1904,he was
sentenced as already stated., The sentence fixed the maximum
as well as .the minimum term of imprisonment, but the fixing
of a 'maximum term in the sentence has been held to be'void,
as not 'intended or authorized by the law of 1003,' in any case
where the statute providing for the punishment of a'crime itself fixes the maximum term 'of imprisonment -at a certain
number.of years. In re Campbell; In re.Duff, supra.
In this case, where the maximum term for burglary is fixed
by the statute at" five years, the sentence fidng that term at
two years was simply void, and the maximum term of imprisonment fixed by the statute takes the place 'of the m ximum term

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

fixed in the sentence. In're Campbell; In re Duff, supra. Under this construction the terib of imprisonment of the plaintiff in error has not yet expired.
He cannot, however, .avail himself of the provisions of the
statute in relation to applying for and obtaining- his discharge
on parole, .after the expiration of the minimum term of the
•sentence, because he has been convicted of two previous
felonies.
On June 7, 1905, Public acti, of Michigan, No. 184, p. 268,
the,legislature passed another act on the same subject and repealed the act of 1903. , The plaintiff in error contends that
the provisi'ns of the act of 1905 are more unfavorable to him
than thoseof the act of 1903, and that it is invalid as to him
because it is an ex post facto law, and, -as the act of 1903 has
been repe'aled, there is no act in force by .which he can be
further imprisoned.
Without stopping to inquire whether the act of 1905 would
be in his case an ex post facto law, it'.may be stated that the
Supreme Court of Michigan has held that the act of 1903 is
not repealed as to those who.were sentenced under it, and that
as to them it is in full force, and, the statute of 1905 has no application. - In re Manaca, 146 Michigan, 697. In such a case
'as this we follow that construction of the constitution and laws
6f the:State which has been given them by the highest court
'thereof. There is, therefore, no force in the contention made
on the part of the plaintiff in error that the act of 1905 applies
in his case and is ex post facto.
.It is also urged that the result of the holding of the state
courtis that plaintiff in error is imprisoned under the indeter.inat sentence-act of 1903 for the maximum period (five.
years) provided by the general statute for the crime of which
he has been convicted, without any discretion on the part of
*the court -as to the term of his sentence, while he is also re-fused the right to apply under the act for 'a discharge upon.
his parole after the expiration of the minimum term of the.
sentence, because, it is alleged, that as to him there can be no

UGHBANKS v.ARMSTRONO.
208 U. S.

.487

Opinioni of the Court.

minimum sentence, as he has been twice before convicted of a
felony, although he has had no opportunity of being heard as
to that allegation. He now urges that he is imprisoned in
violation of the Sixth and Eighth and the Fourteenth Amendments of the Federal' Constitution.
The claim rests upon an entire misapprehension of the rights
of the plaintiff, in error under these Amendments. The Sixth
and. Eighth Amendments do not limit the powers of the States,,
as has many times been decided. Spies v. Illinois' 123'U. S.
131; Eilenbecker v. DistriPct Court &c., 134 U. S.31; Brown v'
New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172-174; Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581,
586. The' plaintiff in error says that under the Fourteenth
Amendment he is imprisoned without due. process of law and.
is denied the equal protection of the laws. The last-named
Amendment was not intended to, and does not, limit the powers
of a State in dealing with crime committed within its own
borders or with the punishment thereof, although no State can
deprive, particular persons or classes of persons of equal and
impartial justice under the law. In re K nwler, 136 U. S.
436, 448; Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S. 692. The act in question'
provides for the granting ofa .favor to, persons convicted of
crime who are confined in a state prison. People v. Cook, 147
Michigan, '127-132. It gives to a criminal so confined, subsequent to the expiration of the minimum term of. imprisonment stated in the sentence, the privilege to make application
for parole to' the warden or superintendent of the prison Vhere
he is confined, and thel warden is directed to send sucht application to the governor.' Upon' its receipt the governor may
-order such investigation by the advisory board id the matter
of pardons as he may deem advisable and necessary, but the
authority to grant paroles, under such rules and regulations
as the governor may, adopt,' is conferred by the statute exclusively upon that officer. He is not bound to grant a par-ole
in any case, and § 4'provides "that nb prisoner who has been
twice previously .convicted-of a felony shall be eligible to parole
under the provisions of this act." As the State is thus provid-

4SS

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.,

208 U. S.

ing for the granting of a favor to a convicted criminal confined
within one of its prisons, It may (unless under extraordinary
circumstances) attach such conditions to the application for,
or to the granting of, the favor as it may deem proper, or it may
in its discretion exclude such classes of persons from participation in the favor as may to it seem fit.. If the State choose
to grant this privilege to make application to the governor for.
adeny
discharge
upon parole in the case bf one. class of criminals and
it to others,
such, for instance, as those who have
been
twice convicted of a felony, it is a question of state policy exclusively for the' State to decide, as is also the procedure to
ascertain the fact, as well as the kind or amount of evidence
upon which to base its determination. It is not bound to give
the convict a hearing upon the question of prior conviction,
and a failure to give it violates no- provision of the Federal*
Constitution. The application for parole is, in any event, addressed exclusively to the discretion of the governor. Even
,after the convict is at large by virtue of the parole granted, he
is still debmed to be serving out the sentence imposed upon
ihim, and he remains technically in the legal custody and under
the control of the governor, "subject at any time to be taken
back within the inclosure of the prison from which he was permitted to go at large, for an.y reason that shall be satisfactory
to. the governor, and at his sole discretion; and full power to
retake and return any such paroled convict to the prison from
which he was permitted to go at large is-hereby expressly conferred upon the governor." Section 5, act of 1903, upra.
We find nothing in the record which shows any violation
of the Federal Constitution, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Michigan must, therefore, be
Mg. JusTicE HARLAN

dissents.

