NOTLEY v. BROWN.
208 U.S.

429

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.'

NOTLEY

BROWN.
M.

]=OR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THD, TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
No. 68. Arg AdJanu ry 24 190.-Dided Febnur 24. I0&

U. S.,501, foblowed to effect that the act of March 3,
'oon,208
1905, e. 1465, 33 Stat. 1035, did not operate retroactively and that this

Harrio v. Ma

court has no authority to review judgments o.f the S upreme Court of Ha-

wall; rendered prior to that date, which cotd d not be reviewed under the
previous act.
In this case it was held that the writ of error could not be sustained as to the
judgment referred to therein because entered prior t0 March 3, 1905, and
also that it could not be sustitned as to a judgment in thq same suit entered
after the writ ofterror had been sued out.

TEm facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Robert M. Mor8e, with whom Mr. William M. Richard8on, Mr. Sidney M. Ballou and Mr. J.J. Dunne were-on the
brief, for plaintiffs in error:
It is conceded'.that the. plaintiffs in error proceeded at the
outset: on the assumption that the decision of the Supreme
Court of Hawaii of March 8, 1904, overruling the plaintiffs'
exceptions, was the final judgment in the case, and that the
United States statute of 1905 had a retroactive effect and
entitled the plaintiffs-in.error to come into this court on a writ
of error to reverse that judgment. In fact, however, the decision of the Hawaiian court on the bill of exceptions. was not
a final judgment, and -that.court Could not enter a final judg•ment before the Hawaiian act of 1905. ..Even if it had been oi
could be :considered to be a final ,judgment, the decision of'
this court in HarriSon v. Magoon, 205 U. S. 501,'to the effect '
that -the United States statute of 1905 was not retroactive
Would'deprive this court .of jurisdiction.
SIt appears,. however, that on June 8, 1905, a judgment, and.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Pkintiffs'in Error.

.2U08..

the first judgment in-this case entered by any court, was entered in the Circuit Court of Hawaii and that the plaintiffs in
error thereupon applied to the Supreme Court of Hawaii for
a writ of error to the Circuit Court, which writ of error was
granted under. date of November 24, 1905, -and, on motion by.
defendants in error. to quash the same, Was dismissed April 13,
1906, and that -judgment thereon was entered September 27;
1907, as of A ril 13, 1906.
*This judgment of the Hawaiian court was, in effect, an
affirmance of the judgment of the Circuit Court, and was, for
the' purpose of a writ of errr'to this court, a final judgment
in the case by the Supreme Court of Hawaii.
-The entire record of the case is now before -this court, and
if it appears from inspection of the record that substantial
errorhas been committed, to which seasonable objection was
-taken by the plaintiffs' in error, this court has the power, to
correct and wtl correct such error. Gregory v. McVeijh, 23
Wall. 294; Fiher v. Perkins, 122 U.S, 522.
The court maytreat the phrase, March 8, 1904, not as the
particular date of the judgment, biit as descriptive only and''
surplusage, and will' give effect to the apparent intention of
the plaintiffs in error to enforce their right to a review of the
final judgment in the case by thehighest court of the Territory.
The power of the court to review does' not depend upon the
presence or absence ofany specific assignment of error. World's
Columbian Exposition Co. v. Republic of France, 91 Fed. Rep.
64.
Rule 35 of the Supieme Court is to the effect that the courtf
will notice plain errors, even though not assigned, and' this
codrt has frequently considered sich.errors.. United States v.
Pena, i75 U. S. 500, and eVei when no assignment of errors
has been filed. Farrarv..ChurchiU, 135 U. S. 609; Behn. v.

Campbel, 205 U.. S. 403.
It may be claimed, however, that .'because the judgment
of the Hawaiian court was the quashingof a writ of error oni
a motion'to, dismiss, it was not such a; judgment as can beVe-

'NOTLEY v,, BROWN.
S208 U. S;

431.

Argument for Plaintiffs In Effoi.

viewed by this court. No limitation as to the kind or character
.of the judgment to'.be entered is imposed by act of C'ongress
of 1905, or by the Hawaiian act of '1905; and it is therefore'to.,be assumed that the same rules and practice' are to -prevail"
* as in cases between Federal and state courts. See Williams v.
Brufly; 102 U. S. 248.
The test as to 'what constitutes a final judgment to which
a writ of error can be taken is whether in bntering such judgment the court was affirming or rejecting a claim which .the
plaintiff in error sought to enforce as a matter of right, or
whether it was one Which the court in the exercise of its discretion might allow or not. Walden-v. Craig, 9 Wheat. 510;
Pickett's Heirs v. Legerwood, 7 Peters, i42; Shreve v. Cheesman,
69 Fed. Rep. 785; Wh'itworth v. United States, 11 Fed. Rep.
.302.
In. the case at bar the plaintiffs' in error claimed the right •
to a review of the judgment of June 8, 1905, as. a matter of
right, and set out nine assignments of error, each raising questions of law. Nothing but questions of law were therefor.e
before the Supreme Court of the Trritory. Therefore, its judgment in dismissing the writ of error, which, as we have said, is
equivalent to a decree of affirmance, is reviewable by thii court.
Judgment dismissing the writ of error was in fact entered
Seltember 27, 1907, but of the date of April [3, 1906. This
case falls within the United States act of 1905.
Where a law conferring jurisdiction is repealed without any
reservation as to -pending ease , all cases fall within the law.
Railroad Co. v. Grant, 98.U. S..398; Gurnee v. PatrickCounty,
137 U. S.'141. The converse must also be true, that, where a
law granting jurisdiction is.
enacted without any reservation,
all pending cases fall within the law.
Even if .the writ of error can bing up only the proceedings in
the Hawaiian -courts subsequent to the entry of judgment of
June 8, 1905, the writ should be sustained as the Supreme
.Court of the Territory in dismissing the writ of error did so
upon the ground that all the errors assigned in the petition had

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendants In Error.

208 U. S.

been passed on by it on March 8,1904. But the sixth, and
.seventh assignments relate to 'the* proceedings in the lower
court had since March 8, 1904, and therefore could not have
been passed upon by the appellate court.
Mr. Aldi8 B. Brouwe. and Mr. W. L. Stanley, with whom
Mr.Alexander Briton and Mr. Henry Holmes were on the brief,
for defendants in error:
The act of March 3, i905, needs no interpretation with respect to the point here involved. By its express language it
takes effect and operates only "from and after its passage."
The final judgment whereof review is.here sought was rendered long before its passage. Admittedly no provision for
review thereof in this court then existed. No time lifit for
appeal or review in any higher court was provided. The cause
was at an end.
Nor can the act be given retroactive effect in authorizing.
review of a judgment theretofore made final in the Supreme
Court of Hawaii. White v. United States, 191 U. S. 545, 552.
See also United States v. AmerIcan Sugar Refining Co., 202
U. S.563; Hooker v. Hooker, 10 S. & M. (Miss.) 599, 601;
Stewart v. Davidson, 10 S. & M. (Miss.) 351, 358.
While the legislative power to enlarge or restrict remedies
exists, it is clearly limited to causes which are then pending,
and not to those wherein there has been final judgment and
the parties hence dismissed, and with the cause thus put at
judicial end. Jensen et al. v. Friee et t., 113 Illinois, 171,
175; Willoughby'v. George, 5 Colorado, 80, 82; Davis v. Menasha,
21 Wisconsin, 491; Merrill v. Sherburne, 1 N. H. 199; Bates v.
Kimball, Admr., 2 Chipman (Vt.), 77; Lewis v. Webb, 3 Maine,
326.
So in the case at bar, under the operation of the final judgment 44 the Supreme Court of Hawaii, -now here sought to be
reviewed, the rights of the parties-became fixed and the property.had. become subject to the absolute and final disposition
prescribed in the res ator's will. With that property and the

'NOTLEY v. BROWN.
208 U.s.

433

Opiniono the ourt.

rights"-created thereunder the community had every right to
deal. In short, the cause had come to a final end. See Gilman v. Tucker, 128 N. Y. 190, 204;'Greenwood v. Btler',.52
Kansas, 424; Lei e al. v. Webb, 2 Greenleaf, 326; Weaver v.
Lapsley, 43 Alabama, 224; - McCabe v. Emerson, 18 Pa. St.
111; People v. Carnal, 6 N. Y. 463; Taylor v. Plac et al., 4
R. I. 324.
MR. JUSTICE WmTE

delivered the opinion of the court.

In a contest in a Hawaiian court of probate certain documents were held not to have been executed under undue influence, and were admitted to .probate as the last will and
testament and codicils thereto of Charles Notley. On appeal
to the Circuit Court, in term, upon motion of the contestants,
a jury was impanelled. to try issues of fact embodied in two
questions, which substantially required the jury to say whether
undue influence had been exerted upon the testator. 0 the
trial various exceptions were taken to rulings on the admission
and rejection of evidence, and ,at the close of the evidence the
trial judge granted a motion to instruct the jury to find a ver-,
dict sustaining the will.
The verdict was rendered January 28, 1903. On the same
day the trial judge signed the following order, which was duly
filed on the following day:
"Order for Entering up Judgment.
"Upon the entering up of the verdict on the appeal in this
matter,
"It is hereby ordered that the clerk of'this court do sign and
enter up judgment in favor of proponents of the last will and
testament of Charles Notley, deceased, in accordance with said.
verdict, and' the decree admitting said will and codicils to,
probate is.hereby affirmed.
"Done in open court at Hilo this 28th day of January, 1903."On.January 27, 1903, the clerk endorsed and filed a formal
judgment. It would seem, however, that he did not then sign
vOL. covxi-28

434

OCTOBER TERM, !907.
Opinion of the Court:

208 U. S.

the face of the judgment, and perhaps did not enter it, as following the date of the judgment is this recital:
"A. S., Le Baron Gurney, Clerk. Fourth Circuit Court.
"Judgment entered this .28th day of January, 1903.
"(Seal) This 8th day of June, A. D. 1905, as of the 28th day
of January, 1903."
The following endorsement is also on the back of the judgment,-under the endorsement of the filing on January 29, 1903:
"Filed June 8, 1905. A. S. Le Baron Gurney, Clerk." The
record is silent as to how these additions to -the judgment came
to be made.
A motion to set aside the verdict and for a new trial having
been overruled, the cause was taken on exceptions to the Supreme Court of Hawaii. In that court the action of the trial.
court in instructing a verdict was sustained and two motions for.
a rehearing were overruled, the last on August 2, 1904. 15
Hawaii, 435, 700; S. C., 16 Hawaii, 66.. It will be observed
that the last action of the court on the application for a rehearing was had nearly a year prior to the clerk's signature affixed
to the face of the judgment on June 8, 1905, as of January 28,
1903, and the additional file mark on the back of the judgment
made on June 8, 1905.
More than a year after the final action-of the Supreme Court
of the Territory on the exceptions, that is, on November
24,
1905, a petition for a writ of error to the Circuit Court, with
assignments of error, was filed in the Supreme Court of the
Territory on behalf of the contestants, praying .that court to
reverse a judgment entered in the Circuit Court. The petition
.for the writ recited the order admitting the will and codicils
to probate, the appeal to the Circuit Court, the trial upon
specified issues of fact, the motion to direct a verdict, the
instruction to sign a certain form of verdict, the verdict, the
taking of various exceptions, and the overruling of motiono
for a new trial. No reference was made in the petition for a
writ of error to the fact that the exceptions reserved at the
trial had been previously, taken to the Supreme Court of the

NOTLEY
208 U.S.

,

.

BROWN.

435

Opinion of the Cout.

Territory and had been there decided adversely to the contestants. The petition then proceeded to.r'ecite that on June 8,
1905-which; it will b4 observed, waS after the :final action of
the Supreme Court on the exceptions-the contestants had
in the Circuit Court filed a motion to set asidethe "'Order for:
entering judgment,," filed January 29, 1903, upon the ground
that the order was obtained ez parte and 'without'notice to or
knowledge.of contestants, and said motion was heard. upon
affidavit and oral evidence and was overruled, to. which exception was duly taken, etc. It was further recited that on the
same day, while this motion was pending, counsel for P'rpo-,
nents moved that the clerk of the court be instructed to sign
the judgment which had been previously made out'on. Jan-

uary 28, 1903; and filed on'the. next day, in conformity to .ti6
order of the. court rendered on January 28, 1903,'and that on
this motion being granted by the court the 'judgment was
entered and signed'by the clerk, and the following exception
was taken:
"Contestants except to the' allowance of proponents' motion that the clerk of court be ordered to sign the form of judgment .fled January 29th, 1903, and to the judgment so signed
on the ground that such allowance is illegal, null 'and void and
not justified by the law or evidence or record herein and to

the judgment on the. ground -that said judgment is contrary
to the, law and evidence and weight -of evidence and without

authority of law and is illegal, null and void.
"Datdd Hilo, June 8th, 1905."
The first five of the grounds set forth in the assignment.of
errors made for the'purpose of the writ of' error prayed from
the Supreme Court of the Territory, .as above stated, were but

a reiteration of alleged errors asserted to have been previously

committed by the trial court in instructing a verdict in favor
of' the will, ard which had already been taken to the Supreme
Court of the Territory on the-exceptions and had been ad-'
versely passed upon by that court. The remaining assigned

.errors were as follows:

OCTOBER TERM,' 1907.
Opinion of the Court.-

208 U. S.

"Sixth. That the court erred in making the ex pa re order
of January 29, 1903, confirming the decree of Judge Little admitting the alleged will of Charles Notley to probate.
"Seventh. That the court erred in denying contestants'
motion to set aside order of Judge Robinson filed January 29,
1903i confirming decree of Judge Little admitting will to probate.
"Eighth. That the court erred in ordering the clerk to sign
the form of judgment submitted by proponents.
"Ninth. That the court erred in entering judgment for the
proponents in said matter of the estate of Charles Notley, det
ceased, being petition for probate of will."
It may be observed that Judge Little was the judge by whom
the will was originally admitted to probate, while Judge Robinson was the judge who presided at the trial in the Circuit Court
and whose action in instructing a verdict had been approved
by the Supreme Court of the Territory. The writ of error from
the Supreme Court prayed under the circumstances just stated
was allowed on November 24, 1905, and on December 14, 1905,
a motion to quash the writ was filed upon the following grounds:
"(1) That it is apparent upon the record that this honorable
court has heretofore, to wit, on the 8th day of March, 1904,
on the 3rd day of June, 1904, and on the 2nd day of August,
1904, decided the questions now sought to be reviewed and
embraced in the assignment of errors filed herein; and
"(2) That the petition for writ of error was not filed nor the
writ issued within six months from the rendition of judgment
in said 'cause, the same having been rendered and filed on, to
wit, the 29th day of January, 1903."
After argument, for reasons stated in an opinion filed April 13,
1906 (17 Hawaiii 455), the Supreme Court of Hawaii granted
the motion and dismissed the writ.
Although the court,, in its opinion, declared that there was
considerable force in the contention of the defendants in error
that the writ should be dismissed, because the only judgment
rendered below was that of January 28, 1903, and therefore

NOTLEY v. BROWN.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Oourt.

that the writ of error had not been sued out within the statutory limit, viz., six months from the rendering of the judgment,
it did not rest its conclusion to dismiss upon that ground.
The court, reviewing the controversy, held that every substantial question in the case had been already disposed of when
the case was previously before it on exceptions.' Without
specifically analyzing the assignment of errors based on the
action of the trial court on June 8, 1905, in directing the clerk
to sign the judgment which had, been made out in pursuance
of the order of'the court onl January 28, 1903, those assignments were, in fact, treated as irrelevant or without merit,
since it was held that as a*necessary result of the previous
action of the court in finally disposing of the exceptions, judgment was requiredt6 be entered upon the verdict by operation
of law on notice to the trial court of the overruling of the exceptions.
Although'as we have seen the opinion of the Supreme Court
of the Territory just referred to was announced on April 13,
1906, no formal order or judgment in conformity to the opinion
delivered by the court quashing the writ was entered. until
September 27, 1907. A few days after the delivery by the
Supreme Court of the Territory of the opinion referred to,
that is, on April. 18, 1906, .three of the contestants served a
formal -notice on the. fourth ore, calling upon him to elect
whether he would join them in a writ of error to be prosecut9d
from this court to the Supreme' Court of the Territory of
Hawaii, to obtain a reversal of the judgment of the territorial:
on the eighth
. ..
court "rendered against you and:us
day of March, 1904, a motion for rehearing having been heard.
and considered, and having been denied on the 3d day of June,'
1904." The contestant thus notified formally replied that. he
would not join the other contestants in prosecuting a writ of
error to reverse the judgment rendered on March.:8, 1904'
Thereupon an application for the allowance of a writ of error
from this court was made to the Chief Justice'of the Supreme
Court of the Territory. In: a petition for the writ the only

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

judgment referred to was that claimed to have been rendered
by the Supreme Court of the Territory on March 8, 1904, when
the case was before that court on the exceptions. In the assignment of errors accompanying the petition it was recited
that the final judgment for the reversal of which the writ of
error was prayed was that rendered on March 8, 1904, and the
three first grounds therein assigned exclusively related to the
action of the Supreme Court of the Territory when the case was
before that court on exceptions in sustaining the ruling of the
trial court, in instructing a verdict. The fourth and last error
assigned was as follows:
"Fourth. That the said Supreme Court of the Territory of
Hawaii etred in that the said cause having been remanded to
*the Circuit Court of the Fourth Circuit of the Territory of
Hawaii after the aforesaid judgment of the Supreme Court,
and further proceedings having been taken in said cause in.
said Circuit Court anda writ of error dated November 25,
1905, in said cause, having been thereafter sued out by the
present plaintiffs in error from the Supreme Court of the
Territory of Hawaii to the said Circuit Court, the said Supreme
Court quashed said writ of error."
The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Territory
having refused to allow the writ on the petition therefor and
assignment of errors heretofore referred to, the writ was allowed by a justice of this court. The transcript of the record
was filed in. this court on July 20, 1906.
On November 28, 1906, a motion was made to dismiss the
writ of error for want of jurisdiction. In the brief filed on behalf of the defendants in error it was insisted that prior to the
act of March 3, 1905 (33 Stat. 135), the power of this court to
review the judgments and decrees of courts of the Territory of
Hawaii was governed, by the rules relating to the right to' review judgments and decrees of 9tate courts, and that as the
cause presented no question which would jqstify a review if
the judgment had been rendered in a state court, there was
therefore no jurisdiction. It was conceded that a broader and

NOTLEY V. BROWN.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

different right as to the courts of the Territory of Hawaii had
been conferred by the act of March 3, 1905, but it was urged
that that act did- not confer jurisdiction because the judgment
of the Supreme Court of the Territory to vhich the writ of
*error was addressed had been rendered prior to the passage of
the act of 1905, and as that act had no retroactive effect, there
was no jurisdiction. Whilst admitting that the controversy
involved no question giving the right to review if the judgment had been rendered in a state court,. and therefore there
could be no review under the prior act, plaintiffs in error
insisted that there was power to review under the act of March 3,
1905, because that act operated retroactively. The motion
was not passed upon, but Was postponed to the hearing on the
merits.
At the same term (October term, 1906), however, and some
months after the motion to dismiss had been postponed to
the hearing upon the merits, the question involved in that motion arose in another case, and it was decided that the act of
March 3, 1905, did not operate retroactively, and therefore
that this court had no authority to review a judgment or decree of a court of the Territory of Hawaii rendered before the
passage of the act which could not be reviewed under the
previous act. Harrisonv. Magoon, 205 U. S. 501.

Five months after the decision just referred to in the Magoon
case, what is styled a judgment was entered by the Supreme
Court of Hawaii, concerning the action of that court in quashing the writ of error from that court to the lower Circuit Court
previously referred to. Omitting the title of the cause and the
signature of the clerk, the so-called judgment is copied in the
margin.'
I Defendants in error above named having.znade, a motion to quash the
writ of error issued herein on the 25th.day of November, A. D. 1905, upon
grounds therein-set forth, to wit:
(1) That said writ was not issued within six months from the rendition
of judgment; and
(2) That all errors assigned have been heretofore decided by this court in
15 Hawaiian Reports, pages 435, 700, 16 Hawaiian, 66; and said motion com-

OCTOBER TERM; 1907.
Opinion otthe Court.

28 U. S.

At the present term, on October 14, 1907, a stipulation of
counsel was filed, adding to the record as omitted matter the
petition for a writ of error from the Supreme Court of the
Territory, the assignment of errors, the writ of error, the motion to quash the said writ of error, and the so-called judgment
of September 27, 1907, quashing the same, to which we have
previously referred.
With these facts in mind, we come to consider the controversy. At the outset we must dispose of the motion to dismiss,
-which we have previously said was made at the October term,
1906, and was postponed to the hearing on the merits.
As on its face the writ of error in terms is directed to the
supposed judgment of the Supreme Court of Hawaii, rendered
March 8, 1904, disposing of the case on exceptions, and there is
no pretense of the existence of a Federal question among the
issues arising on the exceptions, it is obvious that as a result of
the decision in Hqarrison v. Magoon, supra, we are Without
-jurisdiction to review by writ of error the judgment to which
the writ runs. But although the writ. of error is specifically
addressed to the judgment of March 8, 1904, and all the grounds
previously urged to maintain jurisdiction have been determined to be untenable, it is now pressed that there is jurisdiction upon other and different grounds which are, in fact,
wholly incompatible. with those previously taken. Let us
consider these grounds.
It is urged that the Supreme Court of Hawaii did not render a judgment in 1904, and indeed it is asserted that that
court had no power to render a judgment in passing on a case
ing on to be heard, now after reading and filing said motion to quash said
writ of error and after hearing W. L. Stanley, Esq., of counsel for defendants
in error in support of said motion, and S. M. Ballou, Esq., of counsel for
plaintiffs in error in opposition thereto, and due deliberation having been

had, it is
Ordered,-adjudged and decreed that said motion to quash the writ of error
-issued herein on the 25th day of November, 1905, be and the same is hereby
granted, and that said writ be and it hereby is dismissed.
Dated Honolulu, September 27th, A. D. 1907, as of April 13, 1906.

NOTLEYv. BROWN.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

taken up on exceptions. The claim, therefore, really is that
although the judgment to which the writ of error is in terms
addressed was no judgment, yet the writ should be sustained.
Aside from the contradiction, this contention must rest upon
one or two assumptions: 1st. That there was no final judgment
susceptible nf being reviewed by a writ of error until June 8,
1905, when, it is asserted, a judgment arose for the first time
by the making of an order by the trial court directing the clerk
to sign nune pro tune the judgment which had been previously
prepared by the clerk in pursuance of the express order of the
court in consequence of the irerdict of the jury. Although this'
judgment was not only written ip in 1903, but was endorsed
filed on January 29, 1903, the argument is that as it was not
signed on its face by the clerk when it was so filed it could not
take effect as a judgment until the date of the actual signing
on its face by that officer as a consequence of the nun pro
tune order. 2d. That this writ of error must be treated, despite its terms, as if it were addressed to the action of the Supreme Court of Hawaii in quashing the writ of error -on August 13, 1906.
In considering the first proposition it is to be observed that
there is nothing in the record disclosing any ruling by the trial
court concerning the order for the signature nune pro tune of.
the judgment or any exception taken to such.a ruling. We say
this because, leaving out of view some allusions made to the
subject in the opinion of the Supreme Court of the Territory
quashing the writ, the only reference to these matters is found
in recitals contained in the application to the Supreme Court of.
Hawaii for a writ of error, which was stipulated into the record
long after the writ in this case was allowed and the record filed
here. But waiving any infirmity, and assuming that we may
look at mere recitals in the petition fcr the writ of error from
the Supreme Court of the Territory, the situation, if the contentions be well founded, is then this, that the only judgment
sus'ceptible of being reviewed was one which it was claimed [
was entered in the trial court in connection with the nun pro

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. &

tunc entry, after the action of the Supreme Court of the Territory overruling the exceptions, and therefore after -the. judgment of that court which the writ seeks to review. And a consideration of the -second proposition leads to a like result.
Conceding that the writ of. error, although it is in terms addressed to the action of the court on th6 exceptions, may now
be treated as being addressed to its action in 1906 in quashing
the writ of error, and further conceding, for the sake of argument only, that the judgment' of the territorial court in refusing to consider the case on its merits and quashing the writ
of error could, under'any circumstances, be treated as a final
judgment susceptible of being reviewed here by writ of error,
nevertheless there is. no judgment before us -which we can review., This follows because, as shown by the statement which
we have previoL.sly made, at the time when this writ of error
was taken no judgment whatever had been entered in the Supreme Court of Hawaii giving formal expression to its decision
quashing the writ. Indeed, the judgment so doing was only
-entered in- that court, as we have seen, September 27, 1907,
long after the record in this case had been filed here and the
motion to dismiss the writ had been made and submitted on
briefs of counsel and had been postponed to the hearing on the
merits. In fact, no such judgment was entered tintil after th,,
decision of.this court in the Magoon case. The argumqent which
seeks to have the writ of.error from. this court which is directed
to one judgment applied to another rendered long after the
writ of error was sued out, can only rest upon the assumption
that the entry of the judgment below in 1907, after the writ
of error was sued out, must be treated as relating, back to. the
time.in 1906, when'the opinion of the court quashing the writwas announced. But if we apply this rule to the judgment
in question we .would have to apply it also to the judgment of.
the .Hawaiian Circuit Court rendered January- 28, 1903, and
-therefore we should be obliged to say, irrespective.of the reason'
assigned by the Supreme Court of the Territory, -that that.
court had rightly-quashed .the writ of- error for want of juris-

CALVO v. DE GUTIERREZ.

443

Syllabus.

208 U. S.

diction, since.it is conceded that'under the statutes of Hawaii
a writ of error must, be sued out within six months from the
rendition of judgment.
The considerations just stated' make it inevitable that this
writ of error should be dismissed. Of course, it may be that
the reasons which we have given do not necessarily foreclose
the tight within the statutory time to prosecute a new writ of
error to the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Hawaii, quashing the writ, entered September 27, 1907.
On that subject, however, we observe, to the end that this
litigation may not be unnecessarily prolonged, that because we
do not decide the quest on not before us, as to whether such
right to a new writ of error exists, we must not be. considered
as in the slightest degree intimating an affirmative view as to
the existence of such a right.
Writ of error dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

CALVO v. DE GUTIERREZ.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 80.

Argued December 17, 1907.-Decided February 24. 1908.

An agreement made between the owners of a half interest in property in
Manil a, who were ultimate heirs of the deceased owner of the other half interest, and the widow of such decedent, who was his usufructuary heiress,
provided for the sale of the property at a specified price, and that after
certain paymehts the "remainder" should be paid to the widow, on her
giving the usual usufructuary security. Held, that the agreement concerned a settlement of the rights of the parties to the property left by
decedent and did not contemplate transferring any interest in the property
from the other owners to the widow, and that the word "remainder"
referred only to the remainder of the half interest of her testator and not
to the balance remaining of the proceeds of the share of the other ownerb.

6 Philippine Reports, 88, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

