OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

208 U. S.

"thie measure of its expectations and demands by the personal
contracts that it required. Those contracts were limited in
time and scope and have been discharged.
A further argument was based on the confusion produced
by the petitioner through his use of signs and advertisements
calculated to make the public think that his concern was the
successor of the first corporation and otherwise to mislead.
This confusion must be stopped, so far as it has not been by
the decree in force, and it will be. But it is no sufficient reason
for taking from the Halls the right to continue the business
to which they were bred and to use their own name in doing
so. An injunction against7using any name, mark or advertisement indicating that the plaintiff is the successor of the original
company, or that its goods are the product of that company.
or its successors, or interfering with the good will bought from
it, will protect the .right of the Herring-Hall-Marvin Safe
Company, and is all that it is entitled to demand. See Howe
Scale Co. v. Wyckoff, Seamans & Benedict, 198 U. S. 118;
Singer Manu/acturing Co. v. June Manufacturing Co., 163
U. S. 169.
Decree reversed.

LOEWE v. LAWLOR.
CERTIORARI -TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 389.

Argued D5ecember 4, 5, 1007.-Decided February 3. 1908.

After the Circuit Court of Appeals has certified questions to this court
and this court has issued its writ of certiorari requiring the whole record
to be sent up, it devolves upon this court under § 6. of the Judiciary Act
of 1891, to decide the:whole matter in controversy in the same manner
as if it had been brought here for review by writ of error or appeal.
The Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 209, has a broader application

than the prohibition of restraints of trade unlawful at common law.

LOEWE v. LAWLOL. .
208 U. S.

.276.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

It prohibits any combination which essentially obstructs the free flow of commerce between the States, or restricts, in that regard, the liberty
of a trader to engage in business; and this includes iestraints of trade
aimed at compelling third parties and strangers involuntarily not to
engage in the course of interstate trade'except on conditions that the
combination imposes.
A combination may be in restraint of interstate trade and within the meaning of the Anti-Trust Act although the persons exercising the restraint
may not themselves be engaged in interstate trade, and some of the means
employed may be acts within'a State and individually'beyond the.scope
of Federal authority, and operate to destroy intrastate trade as interstate
trade, but the acts must be considered as a whole, and if the purposes
are to prevent interstate transportation the plan is open to condemnation under the Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890. Swift v. United States,
196 U. S. 375.
The Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890, makes no distinction between classes.
Organizations of farmers and laborers were not exempted from its operation, notwithstanding the efforts which the records' of Congress show
were made in that direction.
A combination of labor organizations and the members thereof, to compel
a manufacturer whose goods are almost entirely sold in other States,
•!to unionize his shops and on his refusal so to do to boycott his goods'lnd
prevent their sale in States other than his own until such time as the.
resulting damage forces him to comply with their demands, is, under the
conditions of this case, a combination in restraint .of interstate trade or
commerce within the meaning of the Anti-Trust Act of July 2, i890, and
the manufacturer may'maintain an action for threefold damages under
1 7 of that act.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. James M. Beck and Mr. Daniel Davenport for plaintiffs
inerror:
The complaint must be considered as an entirety. A combination so great in scope, and complex in its -operations necessarily contains elements, which in and by themselves are either
innocent or beyond Federal jurisdiction. The complaint must
stand, if,. as a whole, it substantially sets forth a combination,
whose purpose and effect is to restrain interstate- trade. It is
impossible for the plaintiffs to set forth all bhe defendants' secret operations with definiteness and particularity.. Swilt v.
United States, 196 U. S. 375.
* The Anti-Trust Act is not limited to restraints of interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
I

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

208 U. S.

trade or commerce that are unreasonable in their nature, but
embraces all direct restraints imposed by any combination,
conspiracy or monopoly upon such trade or commerce. Northem Securities Case, 193 U. S. 197, 331. The burden is on whoever seeks to read for their own benefit an exception into this
sweeping and all-comprehensive language.
It matters 'not that the defendants were members of labor
unions and were not themselves engaged in carrying on any
form of interstate trade; nor that their operations also embraced restraint of trade within a State; nor that they did not,
in addition to the other steps taken by them to effect their
purpose, resort to the actual seizure of the plaintiffs' hats while
-in transit or otherwise physically obstruct their transportation;
nor that they combined to restrain and destroy the plaintiffs
interstate trade as a means to compel them to "unionize"
their factory, as a step in their broader conspiracy to force all
hat manufacturers to do so; these circumstances were urged
upon the trial court by the defendants, and it erroneously
attached some importance to them in reaching its conclusion.
Congress has power to declare and has declared, that all
interstate trade shall be absolutely free from all direct restriction through combinations, and every such combination stands
condemned in the express terms of the statute. A combination
to restrain and prevent the plaintiffs from selling and disposing
of their product to customers in other States and to restrain
and prevent such customers in other States from buying them,
is a combination in restraint of interstate trade as much as a
combination to prevent by physical violence their transportation from State to State. It does not matter that it also embraces trade wholly within a State. Indeed, if the destruction of
trade within a State is the means resorted to, to prevent the
customers in that State from buying from the manufacturer or
dealer in another State, it is prohibited by the Sherman AntiTrust law.
Liability under the Anti-Trust law does not depend upon
any physical obstruction of interstate transportation. Coin-

LOEWE . LAWLOR.
208 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

merce is something more than mere transportation. It also
consists in traffic and in- that even larger field of interstate
communication to which Marshall gave the all-embracing term
of commercial "intercourse."
The field of interstate commerce includes all essential acts
antecedent to physical transportation and subsequent thereto,
where necessary to preserve the free flow of such commerce.
Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375.
It is equally well settled -that the Federal power does not
end with the mere physical delivery of the article transported
in the State of destination. The Federal power is coextensive
with the subject on which it acts and cannot. be stopped at
the external boundary of the State, but must enter the interior
and must be -capable of authorizing the disposition of those
articles which it introduces, so that they may become mingled
with the common. mass of property within the territory entered..
Leisy v. Hardin,,135 U.,S. 100. See.also Robbinsv. Shelby
County Taxing District, 120 U. S.489.
In Addyston Pipe Co. v. United States, 175 U: S.211, an
agreement which, prior to any act of transportation, limited'
the prices at which pipe could be sold after transportation,
was held by this court to be*a violation of the Anti-Trust Act.
In Chattanooga Foundry Co. v. City of Atlanta, 203 U. S. 390,
this court sustained a recovery under -§7 of the Sherman
Anti-Trust law in a suit gr6wing out of the combination which
was declared invalid in the Addyston Pipe case (supra).
. The court clearly recognized that to prevent a dealer from
making hny sale to'a customer in another State, and therefore
preventing altogether the possible transportation of the merchandise, was as much within the law as to enhance the'.price
of a commodity which had actually been purchased and shipped.
Similarly in the case at bar the avowed object and necessary
result of the labor combination was to prevent altogether purchases from the plaintiffs by their customers in other States.
The total prevention of interstate sales, whereby no act of interstate transportation takes place, is as much within the statute

278

OCTOBER TERM1 1907.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

208 U. S.

as a physical restraint of transportation when it actually commences.
In the case of Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38, this court
held that an obstruction to the purchase of tiles, a fact antecedent to physical transportation, was within the prohibition
of the Sherman Anti-Trust law.
Under the. pleadings in the case at bar, the court must conclude that there was an existing interstate traffic between the
plaintiff and citizens of other States and that for the direct
purpose of destroying such interstate traffic the defendants
combined not merely to prevent him from manufacturing
articles then and there intended for transportation beyond the
State, but also to prevent the vendees from either reselling
the. hats, which they had imported from Connecticut, or from
further negotiating with the plaintiffs for the purchase and incidental transportation of such hats from Connecticut to the
various places of destination. Itis true that some of the means
whereby the interstate traffic was to be destroyed, were, when
detached, acts within a State and that some of them were in
themselves and apart from their obvious purpose and necessary
effect, acts beyond the scope of Federal authority. The acts
must be considered as a whole and defendants' contention in
this case, that because the means, which they adopted to destroy the plaintiffs' interstate traffic, operated at one end before
physical transportation commenced and at the other end after
physical transportation ended, is wholly unimportant, if the
purposes of the combination were to prevent any interstate
transportation at all.
Defendants' claim is not supported by the Stock Yards cases
(Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578, and Anderson v.
United States, 171 U. S. 604).
In those cases it was held that there was no purposo to oh
struct or restrain interstate commerce, that the combination
related to purely local business.
The combination as an unreasonable one and criminal at
common law falls under the opinion of Mr. Justice Brewer in

LOEWE v. LAWLOR.
208 U.B.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the Northern Securities case, which possibly foreshadows a
ruling by this court that the statute'extends only to those
cases in which the restraint is unreasonable, or unlawful at
common law. American and English Decisions in Equity,
Vol. 7, page 562; Martin v. McFall,.55 Atl. Rep. 465; Callan
v. Wilson, 127 U. S. 540; Arthur v. Oaces, 63 Fed. Rep. 310.
. To the same effect are Toledo A. A. & N. M. R. Co. v.. Penn.
Co., 54 Fed. Rep. 730, per TAFT, J., and the following cases:
Puringtonv. Hinchcliff, 219 Illinois, 159, 167; Chicago W. & V.
Coal Co. v. People, 214 Illinois, 421; Doremus v. Hennessy, 176
Illinois, 608; State v. Donaldson, 3 Vroom, 151; State v. Stewart,
59 Vermont, 293; Shemj v. Perkins, 147 Massachusetts, 212;
Crump v. Com., 84 Virginia, 927; Erdman v. Mitchell, 207 Pa.
St. 79; Gatzow v. Bruening, 106 Wisconsin, 1; Old Dominion
S. S. Co. v.. McKenna, 30 Fed. Rep. 48; Reg v. Rowlands, 17
A. and E. (N. S.) 671, 685; Loewe v. CaliforniaState Federation
of Labor, 139 Fed. Rep. 71.
Members of a combination or conspiracy under the An i-Trust
law are not exempt because they are not engaged in ,nterstate
transportation.
They contend that the Sherman law is inapplicable because
the defendants are not themselves engaged in interstate commerce.
Congress did not provide that one class in the community
could combine to restrain interstate trade and another class
could not. It had no respect for persons. It made no distinction between classes. It provided that "every" contract,
combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade was illegal.
The legislative history of the Sherman Anti-Trust law clearly
shows that its applicability to combinations of labor as well as
of capital was not an oversight.
After the Sherman law was enacted bills were introduced in
the 52d Congress, H. R.. 6,640, § 1; 55th Congress6 Senate 1,546,
§8; 'H. R. 10,539, § 7; 56th Congress, H. R. 11,667, § 7; 57th
Congress, S., 649, § 7; H. R. 14,947, § 7, to amend the Sherman Anti-Trust law so that it would be inapplicable to. labor

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

208 U. S.

organizations, and while one of these (H. R. 10,539, § 7) passed
the House in the 56th Congress, none ever became a law.
Congress, therefore, has refused'to exempt labor unions from
the comprehensive provisions of the Sherman law against combinations in restraint of trade, and this refusal is the more signifieant, as it followed the recognition by the courts that the
Sherman Anti-Trust law applied to labor organizations. United
States v. Workingmen's Amalgamated Council, 54 Fed. Rep.
994; Waterhouse v. Comer, 55.Fed. Rep. 149; United States v.
Elliott, 62 Fed. Rep. 801; Thomas v. Cincinnati Ry. Co., '62
Fed. Rep. 803; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564; United States v.
Freight Association, 166 U. S. 356.
In the following cases the combination was held valid:
United States v. Knight, 156 U. S. 1; Hopkins v. United States,
171 U. S. 578; Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604; Bement
v. Harrow, 186 U. S. 70; Chicago Board v. Christie, 198 U. S.
236; CincinnatiPacket Co. v. Bay, 200 U. S. 179..
In the following cases the combination was held invalid:
In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564; United States v. Trans-Missouri
Ass'n, 166 U. S.290; United States v. Joint Traffic Ass'n, 171
U. S. 505; United States v. Addys/lon Pipe Co., 175 U. S.211;
Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38; United States v. Northern
Securities, 193 U. S. 197; United States v. Swilt, 196 U. S. 375;
City o1 Atlanta v. Chattanooga,203 U. S.390.
Mr. John Kimberly Beach and Mr. John H. Light, with whom
Mr. Robert DeForest and Mr. Howard W. Taylor were on the
brief, for defendants in error;,
On genei'al principles the complaint states no cause of action
which falls within the Federal jurisdiction over controversies
between citizens of the same State.
As there is no suggestion of any sale or attempt to sell the
plaintiffs' hats in original packages, the manufacture of the
plaintiffs' hats in Connecticut, and their disposition" in the
State of destination after delivery to.the consignee, are matters,
which are exclusively within state- power of. regulation, even

LOEWE v. LAWLOR.
208 U. S.

Argument for Defendanta in Error.

though such regulation might necessarily diminish the volume
of the plaintiffs' interstate business. Coe v. Erroll, 116 U. S.
517, 525; Kidd v. Pierson, 128 U. S. 1, 24.
And see the License Cases, 5 How. 504, and Leisy v.
Hardin, 135 U. S. 116.
Federal jurisdiction cannot include combinations of persons
whose operations restrain interstate commerce only indirectly,
and incidentally to the direct effect of the combination on the
manufacture of the plaintiffs' hats in Connecticut, or on the
disposition of such.hats in other States after the breaking up
of the original package of'importation. A combination of persons to restrict the manufacture of the plaintiffs' hats in Connecticut, or to restrict their sale in California after the original
package of importation has been broken is a combination which,
on general principles, is to be dealt with by the several States,
respectively, and not by the United States. Hopkins v. United
States, 171 U. S.578, 594; United States v. Knight, 156 U. S.1.
In the cases relied upon by the plaintiffs in error there has
been present the clement of a direct restraint by legislation,
contract or physical interference, of some transaction or operation admittedly belonging to interstate, as distinguished from
intrastate, commerce; and it has been held that the Federal
jurisdiction was not ousted because such legislation, contract
or interference also affected other operations and transactions
admittedly belonging to intrastate commerce.
The converse of this proposition must be equally true,
namely, that if the direct restraint of legislation contract or
interference is confined to operations admittedly belonging to
intrastate commerce, the state jurisdiction will not be ousted,
because such legislation, contract or interference also affects
other operations relating to the same general transaction,
which admittedly belong to interstate commerce.
The complaint fairly alleges a diversion of plaintiffs' trade.
by inducing customers in another State not to buy his goods.
So long as it is understood that the means employed for diverting this trade are means operating on the customer. and not

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendanta in Error.

208 U. S.

operating directly upon the course of commerce, it is immaterial
whether the means employed be lawful or unlawful.
It is plain from the whole complaint that the defendants have
no ultimate design upon interstate commerce as such, and that
their real design is to unionize the plaintiffs' factory, or to bring
all hat factories in the United States under union conditions.
True, that fact will not protect them, if in the pursuit of such
design they employ means which directly obstruct the course of
interstate commerce; but it will protect them unless the use of
such means is.specifically alleged.
Again, the conspiracy stated is not among persons who are
themselves engaged in interstate commerce, and therefore its
operation on the business of a non-member is not incidental to
its internal effect upon interstate commerce among the members of the combination. Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38;
Chattanooga Foundry v. City. of Atlanta 203 U. S. 390; the
Beef Trust Case, 195 U. S. 375, distinguished. In these cases.
there was a sufficient proof of an agreement to regulate the
interstate commerce of the parties to the combination, and it
was held that other allegations of domestic transactions in
furtherance of such main purpose vere properly pleaded as
part of the general scheme.
The complaint states no cause of action under the Sherman
Act as construed by this court, including those reviewed in
the Northern Securities Co. Cases, 193. U. S. 197, as follows:
United States v. Knight, .156 U. S. 1; Hopkins v. United States,
171 U. S. 578; Addyston Pipe & Steel Case, 175 U.S. 211; Anderson v. United Slates, 171 U. S. 604; Montague v. Lowry, 193
U. S. 27; Swift v. Uiited States, 195 U. S. 375; Chattanooga
Foundry v. Atlanta, 203 U. S. 391'.
Taking these cases. together, they furnish the logical rule
that a combination within the act must either appear to be a
combination whose object is in restraint of interstate commerce,
or if the combination be formed for some other object, that

some one of the means employed must appear to be in itself a
direct restraint upon interstate commerce.

LOEWE v. LAWLOR.
208 U. S.

283 "

Opinion of the Court.

The design of the defendants is not to restrain interstate commerce, but to unionize plaintiffs' factory, and none of the
means for carrying out this design constitutes in itself a direct
restraint.upon interstate commerce. Strikes in local factories,
the publication of false statements as to the plaintiffs' attitude
toward organized labor, etc., and the restraint of domestic
sales by retail dealers in different States, are not in themselves
in restraint of interstate commerce. The case at bar cannot
be distinguished in principle from the Anderson Case, 171 U. S.
602, in which it was decided that a boycott of the business of a
person engaged in interstate commerce was not in direct restraint of interstate commerce, when it was entered into for
the purpose of compelling the individual in question to join the
yard traders' association. In principle, that decision must control the question whether a boycott of the plaintiffs' business
for the purpose of Qompelling them to unionize their factory
is in direct restraint of interstate commerce.
By leave of court, Mr. Thomas Care Spelling filed a brief herein on behalf of The American Federation of Labor and others.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was an action brought in the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut under § 7 of the Anti-Trust Act of July 2,
1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, claiming threefold damages for injuries inflicted on plaintiffs by a combination or conspiracy
declared to be unlawful by the act.
Defendants filed a demurrer to the complaint, assigning general and special grounds. The demurrer was sustained as to
the first six paragraphs, which rested on the ground that the
combination stated was not within th' Sherman Act, and this
rendered it unnecessary to pass upon any other questions in
the case; and upon plaintiffs declining to amend their complaint the court dismissed it with costs. 148 Fed. Rep. 924;
and see 142 Fed. Rep. 216; 130 Fed. Rep. 633.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

The case was then carried by writ of error to-the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and that court,- desiring the
instruction of this court upon a question arising on the writ of
error, certified that question to this court. The certificate consisted of a brief statement of facts, and out the question thus:
"Upon this state of facts can plaintiffs maintain an action
against defendants under section 7 of the Anti-Trust Act of
July 2, 1890?"
After the case on certificate had been docketed here plaintiffs in error applied, and defendants in error joined in the application, to this court to require the whole record and cause

to be sent up for its consideration. The application was granted
and the whole record and cause being thus brought -before this

court, it devolved upon the court, under § 6 of the Judiciary
Act of 1891, to "decide the whole matter in controversy in-

the same manner as if it had been brought there for review by
writ of error or appeal."

The case comes up, then, on complaint and demurrer, and
1
we give the complaint in the margin
' The complaint alleged that the defendants were residents of the District
of Connecticut and that complainants resided in Danbury, in that district,
were copartners and located and doing business as manufacturers and sellers
of hats there; that they had "a factory for the making of hats, for sale by
them in the various States of the Union, and have for many years employed,
at said factory, a large number of men in the manufacture and sale of said
hats, -and have invested in that branch of their business a large amount of
capital, and in their business of selling the product of their factory and
filling orders for said hats, have built up and established a large interstate
trade, employing more than two hundred and thirty (230) persons in making
and annually selling hats of. a value exceeding four hundred thousand
($400,000). dollars.
"4. The plaintiffs, deeming it their right to manage and conduct their
business without interferenice from individuals or associations not connected
therewith, have for many years maintained the policy of refusing to suffer
or permit any person or organization to direct or control their said business,
and in consequence of said policy, have conducted their said business upon the broid and patriotic principle of not discriminating against any person
seeking employment because of his being or not being connected with any
labor or other organization, and. have refused to enter into agreement with
any person or organization whereby the rights and privileges, either of them-

LOEWE v. LAWLOR.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The question is whether upon the facts therein averred and
admitted by the demurrer this action can be maintained under
the Anti-Trust Act.
The first, second and seventh sections of that.act are as follows:
selves or any employd, would be jeopardized, surrendered to or controlled
by said person or organization, and have believed said policy, which was and
is well known to the defendants, to be absolutely necessary to the successful
conduct of their said business and the welfare of their employa.
"5. The plaintiffs, for many years, have been and now arc engaged in
trade and commerce among the several States of the Union, in selling and
shipping.almost the whole of the product of their said'factory by common
carrie rs, from said Danbury to wholesale dealers residing and doing business
in each of the States of Maine, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York,
New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, Ohio, Illinois, Michigan,
Wisconsin, Missouri, Nebraska, Arkansas, California and other States, to
the amount of many hundreds of thousands of dollars, and in sending agents
with samples from said Danbury into and through each of said States to visit
said wholesale dealers at their places of business in said several States, and
solicit and procure from them orders for said hats, to be filled by hats to be
shipped from their said factory at said Danbury, by common carriers to
said wholesale dealers, to be by them paid for after the delivery thereof at
their several places of business.
"6. On July 25, 1902, the amount of capital invested by the plaintiffs in
said business of making and selling ha ts,jnpproximated one hundred and
thirty thousand dollars, and the value of the hats annually sold and shipped
by them in previous years, to said dealersin States other than Connecticut,
exceeded four hundred thousand dollars, while the value of hats sold by
them in the State of Connecticut did not exceed ten thousand dollars.
"7. On July 25, 1002, the plaintiffs had made prepirations to do a large
and profitable business with said wholesale dealers in other States, and the
condition of their business was such as to warrant the full belief that the
ensuing year would be the most successful in their experience. Their factory
was then running to its full capacity in filling a large number of orders from
such wholesale dealers in other States. They were then employing, about
one hundred and.sixty men in the making and finishing departments, a large
number in the trimming and other departments, whose -work was dependent
upon the previous work of the makers and finishers, and they then had about
one hundred and fifty dozens of hats in process.of manUfacture,'and in such
condition as to be perishable-and ruined' if work was. stopped upon them. "S.
8 The plaintiffs then were and now are almost wholly dependent upon
the sale and shipments of bats as aforesaid, to said dealers' in Stites other
than Connecticut, to keep their said factory running and to dispose of its
product and their capital ih said business profitably employed, and the restraint, curtailment and destruction of their said trade and commerce with

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U S.

1. "Every contract, combination in the form of trust or
otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade -or commerce
among the several States, or with foreign nations, is hereby
declared to be illegal. Every person who shall make any such
their said customers in said States other than Connecticut, by the combination, conspiracy and acts of the defendants, as hereinafter set forth, have
been and now are of serious damage to the property and business of the
plaintiffs, as hereinafter set forth.
"9. The individual defendants, named in this writ, are all members of a
combination or association of persons, -styling themselves The United Hat-'
ters of North America, and said combination includes more than nine
thousand persons, residing in the several States of Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, California, and. the Province of Ontario in the Dominion of Canada. The said
combination is subdivided into twenty subcombinations, each of which is
by themselves styled a local union of The United Hatters of North America.
Six of said subcombinations are in thd State of Connecticut, and known as
local Unions 1 and 2, 10 and 11, and 15 and 16 of The United Hatters of
North America, and have an aggregate membership of more than three
thousand persons residing in the State of Connecticut.
"10. Said combination of persons, collectively known as The United
Hatters of North America, owns, controls, edits, publishes, and issu. a
paper styled The Journal of the United Hatters of North America, in which
are published reports of many of the acts of its agents, hereinafter mentioned,
which circulates widely among its members and the public, and which affords
a ready, convenient, powerful and effective vehicle for the dissemination of
information to its members and the public as to boycotts deqlared and pushed
by them, and of the acts and measures of its members and agents for carrying such boycotts into effect, and was so used by them in connection with
the acts of the defendants hereinafter set forth.
"11. Said combination owns 'and absolutely controls the use of a certain
label or distinguishing mark, which it styles the Union Label of the United
Hatters of North America, which mark, when so used by them, affords'to
them a ready, convenient and effective instrument and means of boycotting
the hats of any manufacturer against whom they may desire to use it for
that purpose.
"12. The defendants in this suit are also all members of a combination or
association of persons calling themselves and' known as The American Federation of Labor, which includes more than a million and four hundred thousand members residing in the several States and Territories of the Union, and
in the Dominion of Canada, and in all the places in the several States, where
the wholesale dealers in hats, hereinbefore mentioned, and their customers
reside, and do business. Said combination is subdivided in subordinate
groups, or'combinations, comprising one hundred and ten national and'international unions and combinations, of which the said combinations of persons

LOEWE v. LAWLOR.
208 U. S.

.287

Opinion of the Court.

contract or engage in any such combination or conspiracy, shall
be deemed guilty of amisdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof,
shall be punished by fine not exceeding five thousand dollars,
or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both said
punishments, in the discretion of the court.
styling themselves The United Hatters of North America is one, composed
of -twelve thousand local unions, twenty-eight State federations or combi-

nations, more than five hundred central labor unions or combinations, and
,more than two thousand local unions or combinations, which are not included
in the above-mentioned national and international comb inations.
"13. Said combination of persons collectively known as The American
Federation of Labor owns, controls, edits, publishes, and issues a paper or
magazine called The American Federationist, which it declares to be its
official organ and .mouthpiece, which has a very wide circulation among its
members and. others, and which affords a ready, convenient, powerful and
effective vehicle and instrument foi the dissemination of information, as to
persons, their products and manufactures, boycotted or to be boycotted, by
its members, and as to measures adopted and statements to be published,
detrimental to such persons and to the sale of their manufactures and for
boycotting such persons, their manufactures, and said paper has been and
now is constantly used, printed and distributed for said purposes among its
members and the public and was so used by the defendants and their confederates in boycotting the products of the firm of F. Berg & Co., of Orange,
New Jersey, and H. H. Roelofs & Co., of Philadelphia, Pa., hat manufacturers, to their very great injury and until the said firms successively yielded
to their demands in pursuance of the general scheme of the defendants hereinafter set forth.
"14. The persons united in said combination, known as The American
Federation of Labor, including the persons in said subcombination known
as-The United Hatters of North America, constantly employ morv than one
thousand agents in the States and Territories of the United States, to push,
enforce and carry into effect all boycotts declared by. the said members,
including those in aid of the combined scheme, purpose and effort hereinafter
stated, to force all the manufacturers of fur hats in the United States, including the plaintiffs, to unionize their factories by restraining and destroying
their interstate trade and commerce, as hereinafter stated, all of which said
agents act under the immediate supervision and personal direction of one
Samuel Gompers, who is chief agent of the said combination of persons for
said purpose, and of each of the said combinations, and the said agents make
monthlyreporte of their doings in pushingand enforcing and causing to be
pushed and enforced said boycotts, and publish the same monthly in said
paper known as The American Federationist, of which he is the editor,
appointed .bythe said members, which said paper in connection with said
statement or Rummary, is declared to be the authorized and official mouthpiece of each of said subcombinations, including the said United Hatters of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

2. "Every person who shall monopolize, or attempt to monopolize, or combine or conspire with any other person or persons,
to monopolize any part of the trade or commerce among the
several States, or with foreign nations, shall be deemed guilty.
North America. Said.statement is declared by the defendants to be a faithful record of the doings of said agents, and each of said statements, made
during the period covered by the acts of the defendants against the plaintiffs
herein stated, contains the announcement to the members of said combina'tion and the public, that all boycotts declared by them are being by them
and their agents pushed, enforced and observed.
"15. Said combination of persons collectively known as The American
Federation of Labor, of which the defendants are members, was by the de-.
fendants and their other members formed for the purpose among others, of
facilitating the declaration and successful maintenance of boycotts, by and
for' said combination of persons -known as The United Hatters of North
America, acting through the said Federation of Labor and its other component parts or members, and it and its component parts have frequently.
declared boycotts, at the request of the defendants, against the business and
product of various hat manufacturers, and have vigorously prosecuted the
same by and through the powerful machinery at their command as aforesaid;
in carrying out their'general scheme herein stated, to the great damage and
loss of business of said manufacturers, and particularly during the years of
1901 and 1902, they declared, prosecuted and waged, at the request of the
defendants and their agents, a boycott against the hats made by and the
business of H. I. Roelofs.& Co., of Philadelphia, Pa., until, by causing them
great. damage and loss of business, they coerced then into yielding to the
demand of the defendants and their agents, that the said factory of said Roelofs & Co. be unionized, as termed by the.defendants, and into agreeing to
employ, and employing exclusively, members of their said combination in
the making and finishing departments of said factory, and in large measure
surrendering to the defendants and their agents the control of said factory
and business, all of which was well known to the plaintiffs, their customers,
wholesale dealers and the public, and was, by the defendants and their
agents, widely proclaimed through all their agencies above mentioned, in
.connection with their acts against the plaintiffs, as hereinafter set forth, for
the purpose of intimidating and coercing said wholesale dealers and their
customers from buying the hats of the plaintiffs, by creating in-their minds
the fear that the defendants would invoke and put into operation againrt
them, all said powerful means; measures and machinery, if they should.
handle the hats of the plaintiffs.
"16. The defendants, together with the other persons united with them in said combination, known as The United Hatters of North America, have
been for many years, and ndw are, engaged in a combined scheme and effort.
to force all manufacturers of fur hats in the United States, including the
plaintiffs, against, their will and their previous policy of carrying on their

LOILWE v. LAWLOR.
208 U.B.

Opinion of the Court.

of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished
by fine not exceeding five thousand dbllars, or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both said punishments,
in the discretion of the court."
business, to organize their workmen in the departments of making and
finishing, in each of their factories, into an organization, to be'part and parcel
of the said combination known as The United Hatters of North America, or
as the defendants -and their confederates term it, to unionize their shops,
with the intent thereby to control the employment of labor in and the operation of said factories, and to subject the same to the direction and control
of persons, other than the owners of the same, in a manner extremely onerous
and distasteful to such owners, and to carry out such scheme, effort and
purpose, by restraining and destroying the interstate trade and commerce
of such manufacturers, by means of intimidation of and threats made to
such manufacturers and their customers in the several States, of boycotting
them, their product and their customers, using therefor all the powerful
means at their command as aforesaid, until such time as from the damage
and loss of business resulting therefrom, the said manufacturers should yield
to the said demand to unionize their factories.
"17. The defendants and other members of said United Hatters of North
America, a'ting with them and in pursuance of said general combined scheme
and purpos6, and in carrying the same into effect against said manufacturers,
including the plaintiffs, and by use of the means above stated, and the fear
thereof, have within a very few years, forced the following named manufacturers of hats in the United-States to yield to their demand, and unionize
their factories, viz.: [Here follow 70 names of corporations and individuals.]
and until there remained, according to the statements of the defendants,
only twelve hat factories in the United States which had not submitted to
their said demands, and the defendants, in' pursuing their warfare against
the plaintiffs, as hereinafter set forth, and in connection with their said acts
against them, have made public announcement of that fact and of the firms
so coerced by them, in order thereby, to increase the effectiveness of their
acts in intimidating said wholesale dealers and their customers in States
other • than Connecticut, from buying hats from plaintiffs, as hereinafter
set forth.
"18. To carry out said scheme and purpose, the defendants have appointed and employed and do steadily employ, certain special -agents to
act. in their 'behalf, with full and express authority from them and the other
members of said combination, and under explicit instructions from them, to
use every means in their power, to compel all such manufacturers of hats to
so unionize their factories, and each and all of the defendants in this suit did
the several acts hereinafter stated, either by themselves or their agents, by
them thereto fully authorized.:."19. On or about March 1, 1901, in pursuance of said general scheme and
purpose, the defendants and the other rr.embers of said combination, The
VOL. cclli-19

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

7. "Any person who shall be injured in his business or property by any other person or corporation by reason of anything
forbidden or declared to be unlawful by this act, may sue therefor in any Circuit Court of the United States in the district in
United Hatters of North Amerida, through their agents, the said John A.
Moffit, Martin Lawlor, John Phillips, James P. Maher and Charles J. Barrett,
who acted for themselves and the other defendants, demanded of the plaintiffs that they should unionize their said factory, in the making and finishing
-departments, and also thereby acquire the right to use and use the said union
label, subject to the right of the defendants to recall the same at pleasure, in
all hats made by them, and then notified the plaintiffs that if they failed to
yield to said demand, the defendants and all the other members of the said
combination known as The United Hatters of North America, would resort
to their said usual and well-known methods to compel them so to do. After
several conferences, and in April, 1901, the plaintiffs replied to the said demand of the defendants as follows:
"'Firmly believing that we are acting for the best interests of our firm,
for the best interests of those whom we employ, and for the best interests
of Danbury, by operating an independent or open factory, we hereby notify
you that we decline to have our shop unionized, and if attacked, shall use
all lawful means to protect our business interests.'
"The plaintiffs were then employing many union and non-union men, and
their said factory was running smoothly and satisfactorily both to the plaintiffs and their'employ~s. The defendants, their confederates and agents,
deferred the execution of. their said threat against the plaintiffs until the
conclusion of their attack made in pursuance of the same general s6heme and
purpose against H. H. Roelofs & Co., which resulted in the surrender of
Roelofs & Co., on July 15, 1902, except that the defendants, their confederates and agents, in November, 1901, caused the said American Federation of
Labor to declare a boycott against any dealer or dealers who should handle
the products of the plaintiffs.
. "20. On .or about July 25, 1902, the defendants individually ahd collectively, and as members of said combinations and associations, and with other
persons whose names. are unknown to the plaintiffs, associated with them,
in pursuance of the geqeral scheme and purpose aforesaid, ,toforce all manufacturers of fur hats, and particularly the, plaintiffs, to so unionize their
factories, wantonly, wrongfully,. maliciously, unlawfully and ihviolation of
the provisions of the 'Act of Congress, approved July 2, 1890,' and entitled
'An Act to Protect Trade and Commerce Against Unlawful Restraints and
Monopolies,' and with intent to injure the property and business of the plaintiffs by means of acts done which are forbidden and declared to be unlawful,
by said act of Congress, entered into a combination and conspiracy to restrain the plaintiffs and their customers in States other than Connecticut,
in carrying on said trade and commerce among the several. States and to.
wholly prevent them from engaging in and carrying on said trade and com-

LOEWE v. LAWLOR.
208 U S.

Opinion of the Court.

which the defendant resides or is found, without respect to the
amount in controversy, and shall recover three fold. the damages by hini sustained, and the costs of suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee."
merce between them and to prevent the'plaitiffs from selling their hats to
wholesale dealers and purchasers in said States other than .Connecticut, and
to prevent said dealers and customers in saidlother States from buying the
same, and to prevent the plaintiffs from obtaining orders for their hats from
such customers, and filling the same, and shipping said hats to said custormers in said States as aforesaid, and thereby injure the plaintiffs in their
property and business and to render unsalable the product and output of
their said factory, bo the subject of interstate commerce, in whosoever's
hands the same might be or come, through said interstate trade and commerce, and to employ as means to carry out said combination and conspiracy
and the purposes thereof, and accomplish the same, the following measures
and acts, viz:
"To cause, by means of threats and coercion, and without warning or information. to the plaintiffs, the concerted and simultaneous withdrawal of
all the makers and finishers of hats then working for them, who were not
members of their said combination, The United Hatters of North America,
as well as those who were such members, and thereby cripple the.operatioly
of the plaintiffs' factory, and prevent the plaintiffs from fillinga large number of orders then on hand, from such wholesale dealers in States other than.
Connecticut, which they had engaged to fill and were then in the act of filling,
as was well known to the defendants; in connection therewith to declare a
boycott against all hats made for sale and sold and delivered, or to be sold
or delivered, by the plaintiffs to said wholesale dealers in States pther than
Connecticut, and to actively boycott the-same and the business of those who
should deal in them, and thereby prevent the sale of the same by those in
whose hands theS might be or come through said interstate trade in.' said
several States; to procure and -cause others of said combinations united with
them in said American Federation of Labor, in like manner to declare a boycott against and to actively boycott the same and the business of such wholesale dealers as should buy or sell them, and of -those who should purchase
them from such wholesale dealers; to intimidate such wholesale dealers from
purchasing or dealing in the hats of the plaintiff by informing them that the
American Federation of Labor had dclared a boycott against the product
of the plaintiffs and against any dealer who should handle it, and that the
sane was to be actively pressed against them, and by distributing circulars
containing noti~es that such dealers and their customers were to be boy-.
cotted; to threaten with a boycott those customers who should buy any
•goods whatever, even though union made, of such boycotted dealers, and
at the same time to notify such wholesale dealers that they were at liberty
to deal in the hats of any other non-union manufacturer of similar quality
to those made by the plaintiffs, but must not dealiin the.hats made by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

In our opinion, the combination described in the decliaation
is a combination "in restraint of trade or commerce among the
several States," in the sense in which those words are used in
the act, and the action can be maintained accordingly.
plaintiffs under threats of such boycotting; to falsely represent to said wholesale dealers and their customers, that the plaintiffs had discriminated against
the union men in their employ, had thrown them out of employment because they refused. to give up their union cards and teach boys, who were
'intended to take their places after seven months' instruction, and had driven.
their employds to extreme measures "by their persistent, unfair and unAmerican policy of antagonizing union labor, fdrcing wages to a starvation
scale, and given boys and cheap, unskilled foreign labor preference over
experienced .and capable union workmen,' in order to intimidate said dealers
from purchasing said hats by reason of the prejudice thereby created against
the plaintiffs and the hats made by them among those who might otherwise
purchase them; to use the said union label of said The United Hatters of
North America as an instrument to aid them in carrying out said conspiracy
and combination against the plaintiffs' and their customers' interstate trade
aforesaid, and in connection with the boycotting above mentioned, for the
purpose of describing and identifying the hats of the plaintiffs, and singling
them out to be so boycotted; to employ a large number of agents to visit said
wholesale dealers and their customers, at their several places of business, and
threaten them with loss of business if they should buy or handle the hats of
the plaintiffs, and thereby prevent them from buying said hats, and in connection therewith to cause said dealers to be waited upon by committees
representing large combinations of persons in their several localities to make
similar threats to them; to use the- daily press in the localities where such
wholesale dealers reside, and do business, to announce and advertise the said
boycotts against the hats of the plaintiffs and said wholesale dealers, and
thereby make the same more effective and impressive, and to use the columns
of 'their said paper, The Journal of the United Hatters of North America, for
that purpose, and to describe the acts of their said agents in prosecuting the
same.
"21. Afterwards, .to wit, on July 25, 1902, and on divers days since hitherto, the defendants, in pursuance 6f said combination and conspiracy, and
to carry the- same into effect, did cause the, concerted and simultaneous
withdrawal; by means of threats and coercion made by them, and Without
previous warning or information thereof to the plaintiffs, of all but ten of
the non-union makers and finishers of hats then working for them, as well
as all of their union makers and finishers, leaving large numbers of hats in an.
unfinished and perishable condition, with intent to cripple and did thereby
cripple the operation of the plaintiffs' factory until the latter part of October,
1902, and thereby prevented the plaintiffs from filling a large number of
orders then on hand from such wholesale dealers in States other than Con-'
necticut, which they had engaged to fill and were then in the act of filling, as

LOEWE v. LAWLOR.
208 U. B.

Opinion of the Court.

And that conclusion rests on many judgments of this court,
to the effect that the act prohibits any combination whatever
to secure action which essentially obstructs the free flow of
commerce. between the States, or restricts, in that regard, the
liberty of a trader to 'engage in business.
well known to the defendants, and thereby caused the loss to the plaintiffs
of many orders from said wholesale dealers in other States, and greatly
hindered and delayed them in'filling such orders, and falsely representing
to said wholesale dealers, their customers, and the public generally in States
other than, Connecticut, tha the plaintiffs had discriminated, against the
union men in their employ, and had discharged or thrown out of employment
their-union men in August, 1002; that they had driven their employ6s td
extreme measures by their persistent, unfair-and un-American policy of
antagonizing union labor,"orcing wages down to a starvation scale and giving
boys and cheap, unskilled foreign. labor preference over experienced and
capable workmen; that skilled hatters had been discharged from said factoly for no other cause than their devotion and adherence to the principles of
organized labor in refusing ,to give up their union carids, and to teach the
trade to boys who were intended to take the place of union workmen after
*seven months' instructiobu, and that unable to submit longer to a system of
.petty tyrannies that might be tolerated in Siberia but could not be borne by
independent Americans, the'workmen in the factory inaugurated the strike
to compel the firm to recognize their rights, in order to prejudice, and did
thereby prejudice the public, against the plaintiffs and their product, and in
order to intimidate, and did thereby intimidate said wholesale dealers and
their customers, in States other than Connecticut, from purchasing hats from
the plaintiffs by reason of the fear of the prejudice created against said hats;
* and in connection therewith declared a boycott against all hats made for and
so sold and delivered, and to be so sold and delivered to said wholesaje dealers; in States other tlan Connecticut,'and actively boycotted the same and
the business of those who dealt in them in such other States, and thereby restrained and prevented the purchase of the same from the plaintiffs, and the
sale of the same by those in whose hands they were, or might thereafter be,
in the course of such interstate trade, and cause,' and procured others of said
combinations united with them in the said American Federation of Labor to
declare a boycott against the plaintiffs, their product. and against the business
of such wholesale dealers in States other than Connecticut, as should buy or'
sell them, and of those who should purchase from such wholesale dealers any
goods whatever, and further intimidated said wholesale dealers from purchasing or dealing in hats made by the plaintiffs, as aforesaid, by informing
them that the American Federation-of Labor had declared a boycott against
the hats of the plaintiffs and against any dealer who should handle them, and
that said boyeott waa to be actively pressed against them, and. by sending
agenits and committees from various of said labor organizations, to threaten
said wholesale dealers and theirocustomers with a boycott from them if they,.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

The combination charged falls within the class of restraints
of trade aimed at compelling third parties and strangers involuntarily not to engage in the course of trade except on conditions that, the combination imposes; and there is .no doubt
purchased or handled the goods of plaintiffs, and by distributing in San
Francisco, California, and other places, circulars containing notices that such
dealers, and their customers were to be boycotted, and threatened with a
-boycott, and did actively boycott the customers who did or should buy any
goods whatever, even thdugh union made,'of such wholesale dealers so boycotted, and'used the daily press to advertise and announce said boycott and
the measures taken in pursuance thereof by said labor organizations, particularly The San Francisco Bulletin, in its issues of JAly 2 and July 4, 1903, and
a daily paper published in Richmond, Virginia, on December 10, 1902, and
notified such wholesale dealers in States other than Connecticut, that they
were at liberty to deal in the hats of any other non-union hat manufacturer
of similar quality to those of the plaintiffs, but they must not deal in hats
made by the plaintiffs, under threats of being boycotted for so doing, and
used the said union label of the'United Hatters of North America as an instrument to aid them in carrying out said combination and conspiracy
against the plaintiffs' and their customers' interstate trade, as aforesaid, and
in connection with such boycotting by using the same and its absence from
the hats of the plaintiffs, as an insignia or device to indicate to the purchaser
that the. hats of the plaintiffs were to be boycotted, and to point them out
for that purpose, and employed .a large number of agents to visit said wholesale dealers and their customers at their several places of business in each
of said States, particularly Philadelphia and other places in the State of
Pennsylvania, in Baltimore in the State of Maryland, in Richmond and
"other places in the State of Virginia, and in San Francisco and other places
.-in the State of California, to intimidate and threaten them, 'if they should
continue to. deal in or handle the hats of the plaintiffs, and among many.
other instances of like kind, the said William C. Hennelly and Daniel P.
Kelly in behalf of all said defendants, and acting for them, demanded the
firm of Triest & Co., wholesale dealers in hats, doing business in said San
Francisco, that they should agree not to buy or deal in the hats made by
the plaintiffs, under threats .made by them to said firm of boycotting -their
business and that of their customers, and upon their refusing to comply with
such demand and yield .to such threats, the defendants by their said agents
caused announcement to be made in the newspapers of said city that said
Triest & Co. were to be boycotted therefor, and that the labor council of
San Francisco would be:addressed by them for that purpose, and that they
had procured a boycott to be declared by said labor council, and thereupon
the defendants, through their said agents, Hennelly and Kelly, printed,
published, issued and distributed to the retail dealers in hats, in several
States upon the Pacific coast, the following circular, to wit:

LOEWE v. LAWLOR.
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

that (to quote from the well-known work of Chief Justice Erle
on Trade Unions) "at common law every person has individually, and the public also has collectively, a right to require
that the course of trade should be kept free from unreasonable
"'San Francisco Labor Council,
'Affiliated with the American Federation of Labor,
.'Secretaty's: Office; 927 Market Street,
'Rooms 405, 406, 407 Emma Spreckel's Building,
'Meets every Friday, at 1159 Mission St.
"'TelephoneSouth 447.
"'Address all commtlnications to 927 Market Street.,
"'San Francisco, July 3, 1903.
"'To whom itmay concern:
: 'At a special meeting of the San Francisco Labor Council held on the
above date, tlae hat jobbing concern knowg, as Triest & Co.,' 116 Sansome
St., San Franclsco, was declared unfair for persistently patronizing the unfair hat manufacturing concern of D. E. Loewe & C., Danbury, Connecticut,
where the union hatters have been on strike, for union conditions, since
August 20, 1902. Triest & Co. will be retained on the unfair list as long as
they handle the product of this unfair hat manufacturing' concern. Union
men do not usially patronize retail stores who buy from unfair jobbing
houses or manufacturers. Under these circumstances, all friends of organized labor" and those desiring the patronage of organized workers, will not
buy goods from Triest & Co., 116 Sansome St., San Francisco.
"

"'Yours

respectfully,

G. B. B.NnAm,

"'President 8. F. Labor Council.
" 'T. E. Z~mr,

" 'S-eetary, . F. Labor Concil. L.e.)
"'W. C. HENNELLY,
"'D. F. KELLY,
"'Representing United Hatters ol North Amerim.'
"Also the following, to wit:
" 'San Francisco Labor Council,
"'Affiliated with American Federation of Labor,
'Secretary's Office, 927 Market. Street,
S'Rooms 405, 406, 407 Emma Spreckel's Building,
'Meets every Friday, at 1159 Mission St.
"'Telephone South 447.'
"'Address all communitations to 927 Market Street.
'San Francisco, July 14,.1903.
"'Messrs.
"'Gentlemiien: We beg leave to call your attention to the following products which are on the unfair list of the American Federation of.Labor.
'We do this in order that you refrain from -handling these goods, an the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

obstruction." But the objection here is to the jurisdiction,
because, even conceding that the declaration states a case
good at common law, it is contended that it does not state one
within the statute. Thus, it is said, that the restraint alleged
would operate to entirely destroy plaintiffs' business and
thereby include intrastate trade as well; that physical obstruepatronage of the firms named below is taken by the organized workers as an
evidence of a. desire to patronize those who are opposed to the interests of
organized labor. The declaration of unfairness regarding the firms' mentioned is fully sanctioned and will be supported to the fullest degree by the
San Francisco Labor Council.
"'Trusting that you will be able to avoid the handling of these goods in
the future, we are,
" 'Yours respectfully,
G.B. BzNkAm, President.
".'T. E. ZANT, Secreary. [L. 8.]
'
'Unfair
List.
"'Loewe & Co., Danbury, Conn., and Triest & Co., 116 Sansome Sf.,'San.
Francisco, Hat Manufacturers;
"'Cuett, Peabody & Co., Shirts and Collars, Troy, New York, and 562
Mission St.,-San Francisco, Cal.;'
"'United Shirt and Collar Co., Troy, New York, and 25 Sansome'St., San
Francisco, Cal.;.'." 'Van
Zandt, Jacobs & Co., Troy, 'New York;: Greenbaum, Weil &
Michaels, Selling Agents, 27 Sansome St., San Francisco, Cal.'
and caused said circulirs to be, mailed to and personally delivered to the retail
dealers in hats, and the other customers 6f said Triest & Co., upon the Pacific
coast, and to many others, thereby causing the loss of many or4ers and customers to said Triest & Co., and to the plaintiffs, for the purpose of intimidating and -coercing said, Triest & Co. not to deal with- the plintiffs, and
thereby cause the loss of many orders apd customers to said Triest & Co., and
to the plaintiffs.
"22. By means of each and. all of said acts done by the defendants in pur-.
suance of said combination and conspiracy, they have greatly restrainedc,
diminished, and, in many places, destroyed the trade and commerce of the
plaintiffs with said wholesale dealers, In said States other than Connecticut,
by the loss of many orders and customers directly resulting therefrom, and
the plaintiffs have been injured .in
their business and property by reasai of
said combination and conspiracy, and the acts of,the-defendants done in'
pursuace thereof, ahd to carry the same into-effect, which are declared' to
be unlawful 'by said act of Congress, to the amount of eighty thousand($80,00) dollars, to. recover threefold which dar~ages, under section'7 of
said act this suit is byo iglht,."

LOEWE v. LAWLOR.
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion is not alleged as contemplated; and that defendants are
not themselves engaged in interstate trade.
We think none of these objections are tenable, and that they
are disposed of by previous decisions of this court.
United States v. Triars-Missouri Freight Association, 166
U. S. 290; United States.v..Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S.
505; and Northern Securities Company v. United States, 193
U. S. 197, hold in effect that the Anti-Trust law has a broader'
application than the prohibition of restraints of trade unlawful
at common law. Thus in the Trans-MissouriCase, 166 U. S.
290, it was said that, "assuming that agreements of this nature
are not void at common law, and that 'the various cases cited
by the learned courts below show it, the answer to the statement of their validity is to be found in the terms of the statute
under don~ideration ;" and in the Northern Securities Case, 193
,U. S. 331, that, "the act declares illegal every contract, combination or conspiracy, in whatever form, of whatever nature, and
whoever may be the parties to it, which directly or necessarily
operates in restraint of trade or commerce among the several
States."
We do not pause to comment on cases such as United States v.
Knight, 156 U. S. 1; Hopkins v. United States, .171 U. S. 578;
and Arderson v. United States, 171 U. S: 604; in which the undisputed facts showed that the purpose of the agreement was
not to obstruct or 'restrain interstate commerce. The object
and intention of the combination determined its legality.
In Swift v. United.States, 196 U.S. 375, a bill was brought
against a number of corporations, firms and individuals of
different States, alleging that they were engaged in interstate
commerce in the purchase, sale, transportation and delivery,
and subsequent resale at the point of delivery, of meats; and
that they. combined'tp refrain from bidding against each other
in the purchase of cattle; to maintain a uniform price at which
the. meat should be sold; and to maintain uniform charges in
delivering meats thus 'sold through the channels of interstate
trade' to the various dealers and consumers in -other States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U..S.

And that thus they artificially restrained commerce in fresh
.meats from the purchase and shipment of live stock from the
plains to the final distribution of the meats to the consumers
in the. markets of the country.
Mr. justice Holmes, speaking for the court, said (pp. 395,
396,398);
"Commerce among the States is not a technical legal conception, but a practical one, drawn from the course of business.
Whencattle are.sent' forsale from a place in one State, with the
expectation that they. will end their" transit, after- purchase,
in -another, and when in effect they do so, with only the inter-'
ruption necessary to find a purchaser at the stock yards, and
when this isla typical, constantly recurring course, the current.
-thus existing is a edrrent of commerce among the States, and.
.'the purchase of the cattle is a part and incident of such commerce.
"The general objection is urged that the-.bill does not set
forth
, definite or specific facts. This objection is
serious,sufficient
but it .seems to us inherent in the nature of the case.
The scheme alleged is so vast that it presents a new problem in
pleoding.- If, as we must assume,. the scheme is entertained,
it is, of course,, contrary to the very Vvords of the statute. Its
Size makes the violation of the law more conspicuous, and yet
the same thing makes it impossible to fasten the principal fact'
to a certain time and place. The elements, too,.are so numerous
and shifting, even the constituent parts alleged are and from
their nature must be so extensive in tim6 and space, that something of the same impossibility applies to them.
"The scheme as.a~whole seems to us to be within reach of
the' law. The constituent elements, as 'we have stated them,.
are'enough to give to the scheme a body and, for all that we
can say, to accomplish it. Moreover, -whatevrer we may think
'of them separately, when we take them up as distinct charges,
they- are' alleged sufficiently as elements of' the scheme. It is

LOEWE b. LAWLOR.
208 U.S.

Opiion of the Court.

suggested that the several acts charged are lawful and that
intent can make no difference. But they tre bound together
as parts of a single plan. The plan may make the parts unlawful!'
And the same princie was expressed in Aikens v. Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194, 205, involving a statute of Wisconsin prohibiting combinations "for the purpose of wilfully or maliciously injuring' another in his reputation, trade, business
or profession.by any means whatever," etc., in which Mr. Justice Holmes said:
"The statute is directed against a series of acts, and acts
of several, the acts of combining, with intent to do other acts,
'The very plot is an act in.itself.' Mulcahy v. The Queen, L.
R. 3 H. L. 306, 317. But an act, which in itself is merely a
voluntary muscular contraction, derives all its character from
the consequences which will follow it under the circumstances
in which it was done. When the acts consist of making a combination calculated to cause temporal damage, the power to.
punish such acts, when -done maliciously, cannot be denied because they are to be followed and worked out by conduct which
might have been lawful if not preceded by the acts. No conduct has such an absolute privilege as to justify all possible
schemes of which it may be a part. The most innocent and constitutionally protected of acts or omissions may be made a
step in a criminal plot, and. if it is a step in a plot neither its
innocence nor the Constitution is sufficient* to prevent the
punishment of the plot by law."
In Addyston Pipe and Steel Company v. United States, 175
U. S. 211, the petition alleged that the defendants were practically the only manufacturers of cast iron within thirty-six
States and Territories,, that they had entered into a combination by which they agreed not to cornpete with each other in
the sale of pipe, and the territory through which the constituent companies could make sales was allotted between 'them.
This court held that the'agreement which, prior to any act of
transportation, limited the prices at whichthe pipe could be

300

OCTOBER TERM,.'1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U.S.

sold after transportation, was within the law. Mr. Justice Peckham, delivering the opinion, said (p. 242): "And when Congress
has enacted a statute such as the one in question, any agreement or combination -which directly operates not alonie upon
the manufacture but upon the sale, transportation and delivery
of an article of interstate commerce,. by preventing or restricting its sale, etc., thereby regulates inter.state commerce."
In Montagte &*Compozny v.. Loury, 193 U. S. 38, which was
an action brought by a private cltizen under § 7 against a combimition engaged in the manufacture of tiles, defendants were
wholesale dealers in tiles in California and combined with manufacturers in other States to restrain the interstate traffic in tiles
by .refusing to sell any tiles to any wholesale dealer in California who was not a member of the association except at a
prohibitive rate. The case was a commercial boycott against
such dealers in Califoria as would not or could not obtain
membership in the association. The restraint did not consist
in a physical obstruction of interstate commerce, but in the
fact that the plaintiff and other independent dealers could not
.purchase their tiles from manufacturers in other States because
such manuffcturers had combined to boycott them. This
court held that this obstruction to the purchase of tiles, a fact
antecedent to physical transportation, was within the prohibition of the act. Mr. Justice Peckham, speaking for the
court, said "(p. 45), concerning the agreement, that it "restrained trade, for it narrowed the market for the sale of tiles
in California from the manufacturers and. dealers therein in
other States, so that they could only be sold to the members
of the association, and it enhanced prices to the non-member."
The averments here are that there was an existing interstate
'traffic between plaintiffs and citizens of other States, and that
for the direct purpose of destroying such interstate traffic defendants combined not merely to prevent plaintiffs from manufacturing articles then and there intended for transportation
beyond the State, but also to.prevent the vendees from reselling
the hats which they had 'imported from Conecticut, or from

LOEWE v. LAWLOR:
20 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

further negotiating with plaintiffs for the purchase and intertransportation of such hats from Connecticut to the various
places of destination. So that, although some of the means
whereby the interstate traffic Was to be destroyed were acts
within a State, and some of .them were in themselves as a part
-of their obvious purpose and effect beyond the scope of Federal
authority, still, as we have seen, the acts must be considered
as a whole, and the plan is open to condemnation, notwithstanding a negligible amount of intrastate business might be
affected in carrying it out. If the purposes of the combination
were, as alleged, to prevent any interstate transportation at
all, the fact that the means operated at one end before physical
transportation commenced and at the other end after the
physical transportation ended was immaterial.
Nor can the act in question be held inapplicable because
defendants were not themselves engaged in interstate commerce. The act made no distinction between classes' It provided that "every" contract, combination or conspiracy in
restraint of trade was illegal. The records of Congress show
that several efforts were made to exempt, by legislation, organizations of farmers and laborers from the operation of the
act and that all these effortq failed, so that the act remaind
as we 'have it before us.
In an early case, United States v. Workingmen's Amalgamated
Council, 54 Fed. Rep. 994, the United States filed a bill under
the Sherman act in the Circuit. Court for the Eastern District
of Louisiana, averring'the existence *of ."a gigantic and widespread combination, of the members of a multitude of separate
organizations for the purpose of restraining the commerce
among the several States and with foreign countries," and it
was contended that the statute did not refer to combinations
of laborers. But the court, granting the injunction, said:
"I think the Congressional debates show that the statute
had its Origin in the evils of massed capital; but, when the' Congress came to formulating the prohibition, which is the yardstick -for measuring the complainant's right to the injunction,

OCTOBER TERM,- 1907.
Opinion of the clourt.

208 U..

it expressed it in these words: 'Every contract or combination
in the form of trust, .or otherwise in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States or with foreign nations, is
hereby declared to be illegal.' The subject had so broadened.
in the minds of the legislators that the source of the evil was
not regarded as material: and the evil in its entirety is dealt
with. They made' the interdiction include combinations of
labor, as well as oftcapital; in fact; all combinations in restraint

of commerce, without reference to the character of the persons
who entered into them.- It is true this'statute. has not been
much expounded by judges,'buf as it seems tome, its meaning,

as far as. relates to the sort of combinations to which it is to
apply, is manifest,. and that. it includes combinations which are
composed of laborers acting in the interest of laborers.
"It is the successful effort of the combination of the defendants to intimidate and overawe 'others who were at work in
-conducting or carrying on the commerce of the country, in
which the court finds their error and their violation of the
statute. One of the intended results of their combined action
was the forced stagnation of all the. commerce which flowed
through New Orleans. This intent and combined action .are'
none the less unlawful because they included in their scope
the paralysis of all other business within the city as well."
The case was affirmed on appeal by the Circuit Court of Ap.peals for the Fifth Circuit. 57 Fed. Rep. 85.
Subsequently came 'the litigation ovei the Pullman strike
and the decisions, In re Debs, 64 Fed. Rep. 724,745, 755; S. C:,
158 U. S. 564. The bill in that case was filed by the United,
States against 'the officers of the Americi Railway Union,
which alleged that a 'labor dispute existed between the Pullman Palace Car Company and its employds; that thereafter
the four officers of the railway -union combined together and
•with others to conpej an, adjustment of such dispute by creating a boycott.agaimt the cars of-the car company; that to
-make suth boycott effective they had already prevented cer-

LOEWE v. LAWLOR.
208 U.S.

3

Opinion of the Court.

tain of the railroads running out of Chicago from oiprating
their. trains; that they asserted that they could and would tie
up, paralyze and break down any and every railroad whio ,,
did not accede to their demands., and that the purpose aff
.intention of the combination was. "to'secure unto themselves
the entire control of the interstate, industrial and commercial
business .in which the population of thecity of Chicago and of
other communities along the lines of road of said railways are
engaged with each other, and to restrain any and all other persons from any independent .control or management of such
interstate, industrial or commercial enterprises, save according
to the will and with the consent of the defendants."
The Circuit Court proceeded principally upon the Sherman
Anti-Trust.law, and granted an injunction: In this court the
case was rested upon the broader ground that the Federal
Government had full power over interstate commerce and overthe transmission of the mails, aid.in the exercise ofthose powers
btould remove everything put upon highways, natural or artifi* cial, to obstruct the passage. of interstate commerce, or the
car'rying.of the mails.' But in reference to the Anti-Trust Act.
the court expressly stated (158 U. S. 600):
"We enter into no examination of the act of July 2, 1890,,
c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, upon which the Circuit Court relied mainly.
to .sustain its jurisdiction. It -must not be understood from
this that we dissent from the conclusi ois of that court in reference to the scope of the act, but simply that we prefer to
rest our jutdgment on the broader ground which has been discussed in this opinion, believing it of importance that the principles underlying it should be fully stated and affirmed.".
And in the opinion, Mr. Justice Brewer, among other things,
said (p. 581):
"It is curious to note the fact that in a large proportion of'
the cases in respect to interstate commerce brought to this
court the question presented was of the validity of state legislation in its bearings upon interstate commerce, and the uniform course of decision has been to declare that it is not within

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

the competency of a State to legislate in such a manner as to
obstruct interstate commerce. If a State, with its recognized
powers of sovereignty, is impotent to obstruct interstate commerce, can it be that any mere voluntary association of individuals within the limits of that State has a power which the
State itself does not possess?"
The question answers itself, and in the light of the authorities
the only inquiry is as to the sufficiency of the averments of
fact. We have given the declaration in full in the margin, and
it appears therefrom that it is charged that defendants formed
a combination to directly restrain plaintiffs' trade; that the
trade to be restrained was interstate; that certain means to
attain such restraint Were contrived to be used and employed
to that end; that those means were so used and employed by
defendants, and that thereby they injured plaintiffs' property
and business.
At the risk of tediousness, we repeat that the complaint
averred that plaintiffs were manufacturers of hats in Danbury,
Connecticut, having a factory there, and were then and there
engaged in an interstate trade in some twenty States other than
the State of Connecticut; that they were practically dependent
upon such interstate trade to consume the product of their
factory, only a small percentage of their entire output being
consumed in the State of Connecticut; that at the time the
alleged combination was formed they were in the process of
manufacturing a.large number of hats for the purpose of ful-filling engagements then actually made with consignees and
wholesale dealers in States other than Connecticut, and that
if prevented from carrying on the work of manufacturing
these hats they. would be unable to complete their engagements.

That defendants were members of a vast combination called
The United Hatters of North America, comprising about 9,000
members and including a large number of subordinate unions,
and that. they were combined with some 1,400,000 others into
another.' association known as The American Federation of

LOEWE v. LAWLOR. "
208 U. 8.

Opinion of the Court.

.Labor, of which they *ere members, whose members resided
in all the places in the several States where the wholesale dealers in hats and their customers resided and did business; that
defendants were "engaged in a combined -scheme. and effort
to force all manufacturers of fur 'hats in the United States, including the plaintiffs, against their will and their previous policy
of carrying on their business, to organize their workmen in the
departments of making and.finishing, in each of their factories,
into an organization, to be part. and parcel of the said combination known as The United Hatt rs of North America, .or as
the defendants and their confederates term it, to. unionize
their shops, with the intent thereby to control the employment
of labor in and the operation of said. factories, and to subject
the same to the direction and control of persons, other than
the owners of the same, in a manner extremely onerous and
distasteful to such. owners, and tO carq out such scheme, effort
and purpose, by restraining and destroying. the interstate trade.
and commerce of such manufacturers, by means of intimidation
.ofand threats made to such manufacturers and their customers
in the several States, of boycotting them, theii product and
their customers, using therefor all the powerful'means at their
command, as aforesaid, until such time as, from the damage
and loss of business resulting therefrom, the said manufacturers
should yield to the said demand to unionize their factories."
That the conspiracy or combination was so far progressed
that out of eighty-two manufacturers of 'this country engaged
in the production of fur hats seventy had accepted the terms
and acceded to the demand that the shop should be conducted
in accordance, so far as conditions of employment. were .concerned, with the will of the American Federation of Labor;
that the local union demanded of plaintiffs that they should
unionize their shop under peril of being boycotted by this combination, which demand defendants declined to comply with;
that thereupon the American Federation of Labor, acting
through its official organ and through its organizers, declared
:.
a boycott.
VOL. oOviiim-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

The complaint then thus continued:
"20. On or about July 25, 1902, the defendants.individually
and collectively, and as members of said combinations and
associations, and with other persons whose names are unknown
to the plaintiffs, associated with them, in pursuance of the
general scheme and purpose aforesaid, to force all manufacturers of fur hats, and particularly the plaintiffs, to so unionize
their factories, wantonly, wrongfully, maliciously, unlawfully
and in violation of the provisions of the 'Act of Congress,
approved July 2, 1890,' and entitled 'An Act to Protect Trade
and Commerce Against Unlawful Restraints and Monopolies,'
and with intent to injure the property and business of the
plaintiffs by means of acts done which are forbidden and declared to be unlawful, by said act of Congress, entered into a
combination and conspiracy to restrain the plaintiffs and their
customers in States other than Connecticut, in carrying on said
trade and commerce among the several States, and to wholly
prevent them from engaging in and carrying on said trade and
cpmmerce between them and to prevent the plaintiffs from
selling their hats to wholesale dealers and purchasers in said
States other than Connecticut, and to prevent said dealers
and customers in said other States from buying the same, and.
to prevent the plaintiffs from obtaining orders for their hats
from such customers, and filling the same, and shipping said
hats to said customers in said States .as aforesaid, and thereby
injure the. plaintiffs in their property and business and to render
unsalable the product and output of their said factory, so the
subject of interstate commerce, in whosoever's hands the same
might be or come, through said interstate trade and commerce,
and to employ as means to carry out said combination and conspiracy and the purposes thereof, and accomplish the same,
the following measures and acts, viz:
"To cause, by means of threats and coercion, and .without
warning or 'information -to the plaintiffs, the concerted and
-simultaneous withdrawal of all the makers and finishers of hats
. then working for them, who were not members of their said

v. LAWLOR.7
LOEWE
r
208 U.S.

Opinion of the

30.7.

ourt.

combination, The United Hatters of North America, as well as
those who were such members, and thereby cripple the. operation of the plaintiffs' factory, and prevent the plaintiffs from
filling a large number of orders then on hand, from such wholesale dealers in States other than Conndeticut, which they had
engaged to fill and were then in the act of filling, as was' well
known to the defendants; in connection therewith to declare a'
boycott against all hats made for sale and sold and delivered,
or to be so sold or delivered, by the plaintiffs to said wholesale
dealers in States other than Connecticut, and to actively boycott the same and the business of 'those who should deal in
them, and thereby prevent the sale of the same. by those in
whose hands they might be or come through said*interstate
trade in said several States; to procure and cause others of said
combinations united with them in said American Federation of
Labor, in like manner to declare a boycott against and to ac•tively boycott the same and the business of such wholesale
dealers as should buy or sell them, and of thQse who should
purchase them from Such wholesale dealers; to intimidate such
wholesale dealers from purchasing or dealing in the hats of the
plaintiffs by informing them that the American Federation of
Labor had declared a boycott against the product of -the plaintiffs and against any dealer -who should handle it, and that the
same was to be actively pressed against them, and by distributing circulars. containing notices that' such dealers and. their
customers were to be boycotted; to threaten with a .boy6ott
those customers who should buy. any goods whatever, even
though union made, of such boycotted dealers, and at the same
time to notify such wholesale dealers that they *ere at liberty
to deal in the hats 'of any other n6n-union manufacturer of
similar'quality to those made by the plaintiffs' but must not
deal in the'hats made by the plaintiffs under threats of such
boycotting; to falsely represent to.said wholesale dealers and
their customers, that the plaintiffs had discriminated against
the union men in their employ, had thrown them out of employment because they refused to give up their union cards and

OCTOBER TERM; 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

teach boys, who were intended to take their places after seven
months' instruction, and had driven their employds to extreme
measures 'by their persistent, unfair and -un-American policy
of antagonizing union labor, forcing wages to a starvation scale,
and given boys and cheap, unskilled foreign labor preference
over experienced and capable union workmen,' in order to
intimidate said dealers from purchasing said hats by reason of
the prejudice thereby created against the. plaintiffs and the
hats made by them among those who, might otherwise purchase
them; to use the said union label of said The United Hatters
of North America as an instrument to aid them in carrying out
said conspiracy and combination against the plaintiffs' and their
customers' interstate trade aforesaid, -and in connection with'
the boycotting above mentioned, for the purpose of describing
and identifying the hat of the plaintiffs and singling them out
to be so boycotted; to employ a large number of agents to visit
said wholesale dealers and their customers, at their several
places of business, and threaten them with loss of business if
they should buy or handle the hats of the plaintiffs, and thereby
prevent them from buying-said hats, and in connection therewith to cause said dealers to be waited upon by committees
representing large combinations of persons in. their several
localities to make similar threats to them; to use the daily
press in the localities where such wholesale dealers reside, and
do business, to announce and advertise the said boycotts against
the hats of the plaintiffs and said wholesale dealers, and
thereby make the same more effective and oppressive, and
to use the columns of their said paper, The Journal. of the
United Hatters of North America, for that purpose, and
to describe the acts of. 'their said agents in prosecuting, the
same."
And then followed the averments that the defendants proceeded to carry out their combination to restrain and destroy
interstate trade and commerce between plaintiffs and their
customers in other States by employing the identical means
contrived for that purpose; and that by reason of those acts

LEWIS v. HERRERA.
208 U.S.

Argument for Appellants.

plaintiffs were damaged in their business and property in'some
$80,000.

We think a case within the statute was set up and that the
demurrer should have been overruled.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded with a direction to'proceed accordingly.

LEWIS v. HERRERA, RECEIVER OF THE INTERNATIONXL BANK IN NOGALES.
APPEAL FROM. THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 79. Submitted December 13. 1907.-Decided February 24, 1908.

The construction of the statute of a Territory by the local courts isof great,
if not of controlling, weight; and in this case this court follows the construction given by the Supreme. Court of Arizona to Par. 725, Rev. Stat.
of Arizona of 1901, to the effect that a deed or conveyance of real property
to be valid as against third parties must be signed and acknowledged by
the grantor and that until acknowledged it isineffectual to convey title.
85 Pac. Rep. 245, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Webster Street and Mr. J. L. B. Alexander for appellants:
Some States have passed statutes requiring all instruments
before they become operative in any way to be completed by
acknowledgment, and where such statutes exist they become
a part and portion of the potentiality of the deed, but no such
statute exists or ever has. existed in Arizona, .and .a common
law deed is effectual as a conveyance. The courts of other
States have said that the acknowledgment.is not a part of the
deed. See Sicards v. Davis, 6 Peters, 124.
Paragraph 220, Rev. Stat., Arizona, which was changed into
par. 725 in the revision of 1901, was copied from article 630 of
the statutes of Texas, after that statute had received a con-

