HOUGHTON v. MEYFR.
208 U. S.

149

Syllabus.

fictitious service was made with deliberate fraud. Its general
nature and purpose are clear. Enough is alleged to amend
by, if amendment is necessary, and to give jurisdiction to the
Circuit Court. As we cannot pronounce the whole proceeding
void, we have nothing to do with the sufficiency of the pleading or the question whether the bill would be good or bad on
demurrer. There Was at least color of right for the preliminary
order and it will be time enough to discuss the merits if the case
comes here again after final decree.
Rule discharged.

Petitionfor habea8 corpus denied.

HOUGHTON v. MEYER, POSTMASTER GENERAL.1
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS' OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 49.

Argued November 12, 1907.-Dided January 0, 1908.

While the restraining order authorized by 1718, Rev. Stat., is a species of
temporary injunction it is only authorized until a pending motion for a:
temporary, injunction can be disposed of.
The undertaking given to obtain a restraining order under § 718, Rev. Stat.
must be construed in the light of that section and it necessarily is superseded by an order or decree granting an Injunction and thereupon expires by its own limitation, notwithstanding such order or decree may
subsequently be reversed.
The givers of an undertaking cannot be held for any period not covered
thereby on the conjecture that they would have given a new undertaking
had one been required. Their liability must be determined on the one
actually given.
In this case the obligors on the undertaking obtained an order restraining
the Postmaster General from refusing to transmit their matter at second
class rates. The motion on the order was not brought on but on the
hearing 'on the merits the trial court, by decree, granted a permanent
injunction. This decree was reversed. In an action brought by the
I Original docket title: Houghton et al. v. George B. Cortelyou, Postmaster

General. By order of the court George Von L. Mey'er, Postmaster General,
was substituted as appellee.

-

OCTOBER TERM; 1907.
Argument for Appellant&

208 U. S.

'Postmaster General, on the undertaking, claiming damages for entire
period until final reversal of decree, held that:
The liability on the undertaking was limited. to the difference in postage
on matter mailed between the date of the restraining order and the entry
of the decree of the trial court which superseded the restraining order.
This was not a case in which the parties should be relieved from the obligation of the undertaking for damages during the period for which it was
in force. Russell v. Farley, 105 U. S. 433, distinguished.
27 App. D. C. 188, modified and affirmed.

ThE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Holmes Conrad and Mr. William S. Hall for appellants:
I the United States courts, where an injunction is granted,
neither law nor equity gives any remedy in damages to the
defendant, because it is regarded that the injunction flows
from the judgment of the court, and not from the plaintiff.
Where an -injunction is granted and afterwards dissolved,
there is no power to award damages unless bond or undertaking has been required -upon the issue of the injunction.
Russell v. Farley, 105 U. S. 433. Without a bond no damages
can be recovered at all unless a case of malicious prosecution
is made out. Meyers v. Block, 120 U. S. 206, 211.
In this case there can be- no claim of malicious prosecution,
as Mr. Justice Hagner, upon final hearing, decided that the
claim of the plaintiff was well founded and ordered an injunction to issue. Crescent Live Stock Co. v. Butchers' Union,
i20 U. S. 141, 158.
When a bond has been given, it is within the power of the
trial court to decide whether any damages should be recovered;
Russell v. Farley, 105 U. S. 433, 446.
In this case the preliminary injunction or r~straining order
was superseded by the decree made at the hearing of the cause,
and with that decision the office and sole function of the
temporary injunction ceased and was no longer-.operative:
The preliminary injunction ior restraining order was by its
terms to continue only "until further order." It was never
dissolved. It expired by it own limitation: Sweeney v.
HaIlney, 126 Fed. Rep. 97, 99.

HOUGHTON v. MEYER.
:208 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

The injunction which was dissolved was the injunction of
March 10, 1903, for which no bond was ever given or asked
for. Had the defendant desired security, the matter should
have been brought to the attention of the court. Cayuga
Bridge Co. v. Magee, 2 Paige (N. Y.), 116.
The court cannot impose on the plaintiffs any undertaking
which they have not given. It only makes the undertaking a
'condition of granting the injunction. If the plaintiffs refuse
to give it, the court can refuse the injunction, but it cannot
compel. the plaintiffs to give an undertaking. Tucker v. New
Brunswick Trading Co., 44 Ch. Div. 249.
An undertaking given by plaintiff on the issuing of a restraining order may be continued in effect after the hearing, with
the consent of the plaintiff, but not otherwise. Novello v.
James, 5 De. G. M. & G. 876.
Mr. Henry H. Glassie, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, for appellee:
Damages should be assessed for the entire period during
which the injunction remained in force, for so long as the
injunction remained in operation the undertaking remained in
force as a means of indemnity. Dodge v. Cohen, 14 App. D. C.
582; Hamilton v. State, use o1 Hardesty, 32 Maryland, 348, 353.
Complainant's injunctions, being dissolved for want of right
and equity to sustain them, are conclusively determined to
have been wrongfully and inequitably' sued out.
Every injunction which upon the same state of facts is dissolved, is inequitably granted, because if the complainant had'
been equitably entitled to the relief it would have been impossible that the bill should have been dismissed or his injunction denied. On this point the decree that complainant's
bill must be dismissed is of course-conclusive. Oelrichs v.
Spain,. 15 Wall..211; 228, 229; Hopkins v. State, 53 Maryland,
502,'517; Sipe V. Holladay, 62 Indiana, 4, 9.
It is immaterial whether the injunction was granted by
mistake of law or upon a misapprehension or misstatements

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

of the facts. The defendant is entitled to the protection of
the undertaking whenever and for whatever reason the complainant actually fails on the merits. Griffith v. Blake, L. R.
27 Ch. Div. 474, 476, 477; Hunt v. Hunt, 54 L. J. Ch. (N. S.)
289, 290. See also Russell.v. Farley, 105 U. S. 433, 438, 439;
Cox v. Taylor's Administrator, 10 B. )fon. 17, 21, 22; Winslow
v. Mulcahy, 35 S. W. Rep. 762, 763; N. Y. & L. B. R. R. v.
Dennis, 40 N. J. L. 340.
There is absolutely no equitable consideration in this case
which will relieve the complainants from the obligation imposed by their own undertaking. No new facts have supervened which were not known to the complainants at the time.
In each case complainants knew that the result of granting
the injunction would be the very state of things that has happened-that the Postmaster General would be prevented from
getting the full rate and that they would, gain and he would
lose the difference. The damages which have resulted are not
only the natural and inevitable result of their action, but the
result actually in their contemplation and which they deliberately intended to produce.
MR. JusTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is here by appeal from the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia. The case originated in an action brought
against the then Postmaster General (Mr. Payne) to compel
him to enter and transmit certain publications of the complainants, Houghton, Mifflin & Company, as second class matter instead of third class as ruled by the Postmaster General;
and the bill prayed an injunction restraining the Postmaster
General from refusing to transmit them at second class matter
rates. A restraining order was issued upon the filing of the.
bill on May 31, 1902, in the following terms:
"Upon the complainant filing undertaking, as required by
equity rule 42, the defendant will be hereby restrained as
prayed in the within-mentioned bill until further order, to

HOUGHTON v. MEYER.
208 1.J.

Opinion of the Court.

be made, if at all, after a hearing, which is fixed for the 16th
day of June at ten o'clock A. M., 1902, of which take notice'
"By the court:

A. B. HAGNER, JuStCe."
An undertaking was given in the following terms:
"George H. Mifflin, one of the complainants, and the American Surety Company of New York, surety, hereby undertake
to make good to the defendants all damages by him suffered
or sustained by reason of wrongfully and inequitably suing
out the injunction in the above-entitled cause, and stipulate
that the damages may be ascertained in such manner as the
justice shall direct, and that, on dissolving the injunction,
he may give judgment thereon against the principal and sureties for said damages in the decree itself dissolving the injunction.
"GEORGE

H.

MIFFLIN.

"THE
"By JNO. S. LouD.
"Approved 4 June, 1902. A. B.

AMERICAN SURETY COMPANY, NEW YORK.
HAGNER."

No further hearing was had upon the application foi a temporary injunction, and on March 10, 1903, the case was. heard
on the merits and the following injunction awarded:
"This cause, coming on to be heard upon the bill and the
exhibits filed therewith, and on the papers filed in the cause
and the proceedings had therein, was argued by counsel. On
consideration thereof it is this 10th day of March, 1903, adjudged, ordered, and decreed"(1.) That the complainants are entitled to have their
publications entitled 'Riverside Literature Series' received
and transmitted through the mails as mailable matter of the
second class, as defined by the act of Congress approved
March 3, 1879.'
"(2.) That the Postmaster General be, and he is hereby,
perpetually restrained from enforcing and continuing the can-

OCTOBER TERM; 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

cellation of the certificate of entry set forth in paragraph six
of said bill, and from refusing to receive said publication and
transmit the same through the mails as mailable matter of
the second class, in accordance with-the provisions of said
act of Congress approved March 3, 1879, and from denying
to the complainants the .receipt, entry, and transmission
through the mails of their publication entitled 'Riverside Literature Series' as mailable matter of the second class, as defined by the act of Congress approved March 3, 1879."
An appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia, and on June 5, 1903, the decreeof the Supreme
Court was reversed and the case remanded to the court below,
with directions to dismiss the bill. 22 App. D. C. 234. From
that decree an appeal was taken to.this court, and the decree
of the District Court of Appeals was affirmed on April 11, 1904"
194 U. S. 88.
Upon receipt of a mandate of this court the District Court
of Appeals issued its mandate, ordering the court below. to
dismiss the bill. The Postmaster General moved the court
to enter a decree upon the mandate of the District Court of
Appeals, to dismiss the bill dissolving the injunction,.'and
ascertain the damages by reason of the violation thereof. The
District Supreme Court entered a decree setting aside Its
original decree, and dismissed the bill, and. dissolved the injunction theretofore granted, but being of opinion that, as
matter of law, the complainants and sureties on the injunction
bond given in. the case were not liable to damages thereon,
the motion for ascertainment of damages upon such undertaking was overruled and denied, and the injunction undertaking cancelled and annulled.
From the part. of the decree refusing to assess damages the
Postmaster General, Mr. Cortelyou having succeeded Mr. Payne,
appealed to the District Court of Appeals, where the order of
the cobrt below was..reversed, and a decree directed against
the appellant and the surety on the injdnction bond for the
sum of $6,880.86, the amount with interest stipulated as the

HOUGHTON v.MEYER.
208 U. S.

S155

Opinion of the Court.

difference between postage due at third class rate and that
paid as second class rate "between the date of the filing of
the injunction herein and June 16, 1904, when such mailing
at the second class rate was discontinued." 27 App. D. C. 188.
Thereupon appeal was taken to this court.
It is the contention of the appellants that the original under.?
taking being entered only for a temporary purpose, had spent
its force, and that there is no liability thereon, notwithstanding
the fact that Lhe original decree granting a permanent injunction was reversed by the District Court of Appeals, which
judgment was affirmed in this court.
The contention of the appellee is that the damages sustained
by the.Postmaster General during the time pending this action
was secured by the bond, and recovery may be had for the
damages sustained, or, if not for the full amount, at least for
the time from the. granting of the restraining order until the
final decree in the court of original jurisdiction.
The determination of the question involved depends upon
the nature and character of the undertaking given. The restraining order issued in the case was authorized by § 718 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States, which is as follows:
"Whenever notice is given of a motion for an injunction out
of a Circuit or DistrictCourt, the court or judge thereof may,
'if there appears to be danger of irreparable injury from delay,
grant an order restraining the act sought to be enjoined until
the decision upon the ,motion; and such order may be granted
with or without security, in the discretion of the court or
judge." Rev. Stat. § 718.
Under this section, originally passed June 1, 1872 (§ 7, c. 255,
.17 Stat. 196, 197), a restraining order with features distinguishing it from an interlocutory injunction was introduced into
the. statutory law. In the prior act bf Congress of March 3,
1793, c. 22, 1 Stat. 334, 335, it was provided in § 5: "Nor
shall a writ of injunction be granted in any case without
reasonable previous notice to the adverse party, or his attorney,
of the time and place of moving for the same."

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

By force of § 718 a judge may grant a restraining order in
case it appears to him there is danger of irreparable injury,
to be in force "until the decision upon the motion" for temporary injunction. Thus by its very terms the section (718) does
not deal with temporary injunctions, concerning which power
is given in other sections of the statutes, but is intended to
give power to preserve the status quo when there is danger of
irreparable injury -from delay in giving the notice required
by Equity Rule 55, governing the issue of injunctions. While
the statutory restraining order is a species of temporary injunction, it is only authorized, as § 718 imports by its terms, until
the pending motion for a temporary injunction can be heard
and decided. Yuengling v. Johnson, 1 Hughes, 60Y.; S. C., 30
Fed. Cases, 866. Case No. 18195; Barstow v. Becket 110 Fed.
Rep. 826, 827; North American Land and Timber Co. v. Watkins, 109 Fed. Rep. 101, 106; Worth Mfg. Co. v. Bingham, 116
Fed. Rep. 785, 789.
And the same view has been recognized in other jurisdictions
having similar statutory provisions. "A temporary restraining order is distinguished from an interlocutory injunction in
that it is ordinarily granted merely pending the hearing of a
motion for a temporary injunction and its life ceases with the
disposition of that motion and without further order of the
court, while, as we have seen, an interlocutory injunction is
usually granted until the coming in of the answer or until the
final hearing of the cause and stands as a binding restraint until
rescinded by the further action of the court." 1 High on Injunctions (4th ed.), § 3.
Turning from a consideration of the authority conferred to
the terms of the order, it will be seen that the judge acted
under the terms of § 718. For the order of restraint is "unti!
further order, to be made, if at all, after a hearing, which is
fixed for the 16th day of June, at ten o'clock A. M., 1902, of
which iake notice." This is the order of which the defendant
had notice and concerning which indemnity was required and
given in the bond now in suit.

HOUGHTON v. MEYER.
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Oourt.

As we have noticed, no further undertaking was required of
Houghton, Mifflin &Company after the restraining order issued
in its favor. The Court of Appeals of the District said, 27
App. D. C. 195:
"But we do not think the bond ceased to be in force after
the decree was entered making the injunction perpetual. The
parties, by their actions, treated it as though it continued to
apply. The appellant would,. had any question been raised,
have asked for a new bond, in which event the appellees doubtless would have conceded that the bond remained in force.
When the main case was before this court, and later was taken
to the United States Supreme Court, it was considered that
the original undertaking was in force or a new one would have
been required,-one other than the supersedeas bond then
given."
But we do not think the case can be decided upon conjecture
as to what bonds might have been required. We must determine the case upon the liability of the principals and sureties on the bond which was actually given.
When the parties gave this undertaking, the court, txercising its discretion, had required that -the, restraining order
should be upon condition that bond be given to secure the
defendant against loss because of this temporary restraint.
It is true that the restraining order was, by its terms, to be
in force until "further order," to be made, if at all, after hearing.- Neither party brought on for hearing the pending motion for a temporary injunction. When the further order Was
made nothing was said of the restraining order.. A new and
permanent injunction in favor of the plaintiffs was granted.
This decree necessarily superseded the restraining order, and
it expir, by the limitation contained in its terms, and there
was no further liability on the bond, given only to secure that
order.
It is further'contended by the appellants that they should
be relieved from all liability on this bond, upon the principles
laid down in Russell v. Farley, 105 U. S. 433. In that case the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. -S.

equity practice in the courts of the United States concerning
security for injunctions was elaborately discussed by Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court. It was held that the
exercise of discretion involved in the decision of the court of
original jurisdiction, in awarding or withholding damages,
should only be reversed in clear cases. And examining the
procedure in the case then in hand, with a view to ascertaining
whether injustice had been done, the fact is shown that the
injunction secured by the obligation given in that case had
never been entirely dissolved; that it had never been decided
that the complainant was not entitled to it, at least as to a
portion of the property claimed by the parties suing out the
injunction, and it turned out on the final hearing that -as to
more than one-half of the claim the injunction was properly
issued. In course of the discussion the learned justice says,
p. 442:
"When the pledge [deposited by order of court] is no longer
required for the purposes of justice, the court must have the
power to release it, and leave the parties to the ordinary
remedies given by the law to litigants inter sese. Where the
fund is security for a debt or a balance of account, or other
money demand, this would rarely be allowable; but in many
other cases it might not infrequently occur that injustice would
result from keeping. property impounded in the court. On.
general principles the same reason applies where, instead of a
pledge of money or property, a party is required to give bond
to answer. the damage which the adverse party may sustain
by the action of the court. In the course of the cause, or at
the final hearing, it may manifestly appear that such an exiraordinary security ought not to be retained as a basis of
further litigation between the parties; that the suit has been
fairly and honestly pursued or .defended by the party who was
required to enter into the undertaking, and that it would be
inequitable to subject him to any other liability than that
which the law imposes in ordinary cases. In such a case it
would be a! perversion, rather than a furtherance, of justice

HOUGHTON v. MEYER.
208 U.'B.

189

Opinion of the Court.

to deny to the court the power to supersede the stipulation
imposed."
In the -present Case the court of original jurisdiction, the.
Supreme Court 6f the District, refused to assess damages upon
the injunction bond, for what reason the record does not disclose. The District Court of Appeals, as we have seen, assessed
damages for the entire period, during which it held the injunction to be in force. We do not think this case. comeswithin
the class outlined in Russell v. Farley, wherein the order of
the trial couirt. ought not to be disturbed upon principles of
equity and in view of the superior knowledge of that court of
the conduct of the parties in thie course of the litigation.
In this case the Government and the appellants were in controversy as to the rate of postage to be charged upon a certain
class of publications sent through the mail by the appellants.
It is true that the department's rulings for.some years had
been in favor of the contention of the appellants as to the class
to which this' mailable matter belonged. When the-Postmaster General ruled to the contrary, and. correctly, as has now
been held in the District Court of Appeals and in this court,
* the publishers applied to the court for an injunction to continue
them in their original right to receive this lower rate'of postage
pending the litigation which they had begun, with a view to
testing the right of the Government to make, this demand.
The court entertained the suit. and. awarded a restraining
order, but upon .the condition that if the publishers continued
to reccive the lower rate postagefor which they contended,
notwithstanding the ruling of the. Postmaster General, the
Government was to be indemnified against loss should it turn
out that its contention was right. and that of the c6mplainants
wrong. The publishers accepted this condition, and gave the,
bond to secure their. right to continue sending the mailable
matter in controversy at the old rate, pending the further
order of the court,
As a result of the final decision in this court, it turned out
that the Postmaster General was right, and that the Govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

went was justly entitled to the additional rate of postage as
ruled by the Postmaster General. The result of the decision
established not only the right of the Government to receive
the additional postage, pending the controversy, but also
established the fact that the publishers had received a very
considerable amount of service from the Government in carrying the publications through the mails at a rate less than it was.
entitled to charge.
We do not perceive, in this condition of affairs, any room
for the application of the doctrine laid down in Russell v'.
Farley, which permits a courtto relieve from liability on an
injunction" bond. The result of this litigation leaves no doubt
as to the rights of the, parties, and the Government's right to
avail itself of the security given; to secure payment of the
postage which it was legally entitled to charge.
It is not necessary for us to decide whether further and other
security might not have been required under Equity. Rule 93,
or otherwise, as a condition of continuing the injunction after
final judgment. What we determine is that this undertaking
was authorized and given in pursuance of § 718, Rev. Stat.,
and should be construed accordingly. The District Court of
Appeals should have sustained the order of the Supreme Court
of the District, declining to assess aiy damages on the bond,
except for the .period fim the time the bond was approved
until'March 10, 1903, the date of the decree in the court of
original jurisdiction.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals giving damages for
the entire period of the litigation and until the legal rate of
postage was paid by appellants should be modified so as to
include only damages for the period covered by the' restraining
order, as above stated, and, as so modified,
Affirmed, costs in this court to be equally divided..

