NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. DULUTH.
208 U. S.

583

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. STATE
OF MINNESOTA ex rel. THE CITY OF DULUTH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 92. Argued December 20. 23. 1907.-Decided February 24, 1908.

In cases arising under the contract clause of the Federal Constitution this
court determines for itself, irrespective of the decision of the state court,
whether a contract exists and whether its obligation has been impaired,
and if plaintiff in error substantially sets up a claim of contract with allegations of its impairment by state or municipal legislation, the judgment
of the state court is reviewable by this court under § 709, Rev. Stat.
Municipal legislation passed under supposed legislative authority from the
State is within the prohibition of the Federal Constitution and void if it
impairs the obligation of a contract.
While an ordinance merely denying liability under an existing contract does
not necessarily amount to an impairment of the obligation of that contract
within the meaning of the Federal Constitution, where the ordinance requires expenditure of money by one relieved therefrom by a contract, a
vali'd contract claim is impaired and this court has jurisdiction.
The right'to exercise the police power is a continuing one that cannot be
limited or contracted away by the State or its municipality, nor can it be
'destroyed by compromise as it is. immaterial upon what consideration the
attempted contract is based.
The exercise of the police power in the interest of public health and safety
is to be maintained unhampered by contracts in private interests, and
upcompensated obedience to an otdinance passed in its exercise is not
violative of property rights protected by the Federal Constitution; held,
that an ordinance of a municipality of that State, valid under the law. of
that State as construed by its highest court, compelling a railroad to repair a viaduct constructed, after the opening of the railroad, by the city
in pursuance of a contract relieving the railroad, for a substantial consideration, from making any repairs thereon for a term of years was not
void under the contract, or the due process, clause of the Constitution.
98 Minnesota, 429, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn for plaintiff in error:
This court has jurisdiction. The Supreme Court of Minnesota

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

208 U. S.

held that there was no contract, and therefore did not come
to the question whether a law of the State violated a contract.
But this court has jurisdiction of the question, and will decide
for itself, whether there was a contract. Stearns v. Minnesota,
i79 U. S. 223, 232 and cases cited.
If the contract was valid, it was violated by a law of the
State, i. e., the city ordinance or resolution of July 13, 1903,
which was a legislative act in that it was a legislative determination, of what repairs should be made, and that the railway
company and not the city should make them.
The'action of the city was riot confined to a denial of the
validity, or of the binding force in some particular of the contract, as in St. Paul Gas Light Co. v.St. Paul, 181 U. . 142.
City laws are state laws within the meaning of the Federal
Constitution. Mercantile Trust Co. v. Columbus, 203 U. S.
311, and cases cited, p. 320. The jurisdiction of, this court is
sustained by Waterworks Company v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S.
65, 81; Waterworks Company v. Louisiana, 185 U. S.336, 350,
and Cleveland v. Cleveland City Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 517, 530,531;
and see Dawson v. Columbia Trust Company, 197 U. S. 178.
As to the merits: Plaintiff in error's predecessor was upon
the ground at Lake avenue before the street was made, and
the public and not the railway was therefore rightfully chargeable with the whole expense of providing for the street travel.
Minneapolis v. St. Paul, M. & M. Ry. Co., 35 Minn~sota, 131;
Boston & Albany ?.R. Co. v. Cambridge, 159 Massachusetts,
283, 287; St. Paul,M. & M. Ry. Co. v. District Court, 42 Minnesota, 247; State v. Ensign, 54 Minnesota, 372; St. Paul v.
Chicago, St. Paul,Minneapolis & Omaha Ry. Co., 85 Minnesota,
416.
The foundation of the conclusion below was, that in 1891
when the contract was made the law of the State imposed upon
the railway the whole burden of building and repairing the
bridge,. For that reason the contract dividing the burden was
held bad. Except for the rule of law just stated, laid down
by the Minnesota court for the first time in this case, that

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. DULUTH.
208 U. S.

585

Argument for Defendant in Error.

court would have held the contract good, for it does not differ
in principle from the contract held good in the last case cited.
See 85 Minnesota, 418.
As to the validity of an alleged contract, however, this. court
follows the law of the State as it existed when the contract
was consummated and will disregard later decisions to the contrary. Ohio Life Insurance & .Trust Company v. Debolt, 16
How. 416. See, also, Taylor v. Ypsilanti, 105 U. S. 60, 71;
Los Angeles v. Los Angeles City Water Co., 177 U. S. 558, 575;
Loeb v. Columbia Township Trustees, 179 U. S. 472, 492; Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, 191 U. S. 499, 517, 518.
Considering the then rights of the parties as between each
other, which were in so many respects doubtful, they were
certainly fair matters of compromise; and to say that a compromise honestly entered into and fully carried out is without
consideration because, some fifteen, years after, the Supreme
Court of the State for the first time holds that the whole obligation could have been thrown upon the railway, is to violate
the fundamental principle upon which compromise agreements
are founded. See Stapleton v. Stapleton, 1 Atkyns, 12; 1 Chitty
on Contracts (11th ed.), 47, note; Hager v. Thompson, 1 Black,
80, 93; United States v. Child, 12 Wall. 232; Demars v. MusserSauntry Land Co., 37 Minnesota, 418.
Mr. Bert Fesler for defendant in error:
As to the jurisdiction: "This court does not obtain jurisdiction to review a judgment of a state court because that judgment impairs or fails to give effect to a contract. The state
court must give effect to some subsequent statute or state constitution which impairs the obligation of the contract, and the
judgment of that court must. rest on the Statute either expressly or by necessary implication." New Orleans Waterworks Co. v. Louisiana 185 U. S. 336, 350, 351. See also Dawson v. Columbia Trust Co., 197 U. S. 178; St. Paul Gas' Light
Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142.
i'he inhibitions of the Constitution upon the impairment

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

208 U.S.

of the obligation of contracts, etc., by the States, are not violated by the legitimate exercise of legislative power in securing the public safety, health and morals. New York & New
England R. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556, 567, Nor do those
constitutional provisions apply to contracts made by parties
dealing with a department of government concerning the future
exercise of governmental power conferred by legislative acts,
where the subject matter of the contract is one which affects
the safety and welfare of the public. Board of Education v.
Phillips, 67 Kansas, 549.
As to the merits: The rule stated by counsel for plaintiff in
error, that upon the.validity of an alleged contract this court
follows the law of the State as it existed when the contract was
made and will disregard later decisions to the contrary, is
limited to decisions of the state court as to the interpretation
or validity of its own constitution and statute laws. It does'
not apply to the general law not found in written constitutions
or statutes. Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company v. Debolt,
16 How. 416, distinguished.
The decisions of tfie state court, at the time the contract of
1891 was made, were not contrary to the decision in -this case.
The Minnesota court held, on the facts in the case at bar,
that the viaduct is a safety device. It is not claimed that
that portion of the decision is contrary to any prior decision
of this court.. State ez rel. City of Minneapolis v. St. Paul,
Minneapolii & Manitoba Railway Company, 35 Minnesota, 131,
and State ex rel. St. Paul, Minneapolis & Manitoba Railway
Company v. District Court, 42 Minnesota, 247, discussed and
distinguished.
• Even 'if the contract of 1891 related to matters which were
fair subjects of compromise, the law with respect to the authority or power of the city to make it is not affected by that
consideration. It was an attempt on the part of the city to
bind itself to keep the viaduct in repair forever. But under
the decisions that duty devolved upon the railway company,
and this being so, the contract of 1891 was not a valid one, be-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. DULUTH.
208 U.S.

587.

Opinion of the Court.

cause where the duty rests upon a railway corporation to re-.
store a public way to its former condition of usefulness, a
municipality cannot enter into a valid contract with such
corporation whereby it surrenders its power to compel the performance of such duty. State ex rel. St. Paul v. Minnesota
Tran lcr Ry. Co., 80 Minnesota, 108. See also New York &
New England R. R.Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556.
A municipality contracts away its police power when it
contracts away the right to say who shall pay for compliance
with an exercise of the police power. It is uncompensated
compliance with the requirements of governmental authority
to preserve the safety of crossings that the law requires. State
ex rel. Minneapolis v. St. Paul, M. & M. Ry. Co., 35 Minnesota,
131; New York & N. E. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556, 571;
Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 254; New
Orleans Gaslight Co. v. Drainage Commission, 197 U. S. 453.
MR.

JUSTIcE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes here from the Supreme Court of Minnesota,
to review a judgment of that court affirming a judgment in
mandamus of the St. Louis County Court in that State, which
'required the Northern Pacific Railway Company, plaintiff in
error, to repair a certain viaduct in the city of Duluth, carrying
the railway company's tracks over Lake avenue: 98 Minnesota,
429. The Northern Pacific Railway Company is the successor
in title of the St. Paul and Duluth Railroad Company, which
derived its title from the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad Company. The Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad
Company, whose rights and obligations have devolved upon
the Northern Pacific Railway Corppany,. had the following provisions in its charter:
"SEc. 6. The said company may construct the said railroad
across any public or private road, highway, stream of water
or. watercourse if the same be necessary: Provided, That the
same shall not interfere with navigation; but said company

..W8

OCTOBER TERM," 1907.
-

Opion of the Court.

208 U. S.

shall return the same to their present state, or in a sufficient
manner- so as not to'impair the usefulness of such road, highway, stream of- water, or watercourse, to the owner or to the

public.'
"SEc. 17. This act is hereby declared-to be a public act, and
may be amended"by any subsequent legislative assembly in
-any manner not destroying or impairing the vested rights of
said corporatibn."
* The Lake Superior and. Mississippi Railroad laid its first
track acrosswhat is now Lake avenue in 1869. Lake avenue
.was graded and improved for public traffic in the winter and
spring of 1871, and. since that time. it has been in continuous
use as a public street. In the year 1891 the amount of business
on Lake avenue and the number of tracks therein had become
so great that the constant passage of cars and engines endangered the safety of. the public. The city of Duluth thereupon
prepared plans and specifications for the construction of the
viaduct over Lake avenue; and made a demand upon the railroad company to construct the same. The railroad company,
after considerable negotiation, in which it denied its obligation to build the viaduct, entered into a contract with the city
of Duluth, which is set up in its answer in this case as a full
defense to the right of the city of Duluth to require the repair
of the viaduct at the railroad company's expense. This contract was dated September 2, 1891, and provided that the city
-should build tlhe bridge or viaduct upon Lake avenue to carry
*that street over the railroad tracks which had theretofore
crossed said avenue at grade.. The railroad was to contribute
to the expense of the construction in the amount of $50,000,
and the city undertook, for the period of fifteen years, to maintain the part of the -bridge over the railroad's right of way,
and to perpetually maintain the approaches.
The city built
the bridge at an expense of $23,000, in addition to the $50,000
which:was paid by -the railroad company.
In.. 1903, the viaduct and its appoaches having become
dangerous for public use, the city of Duluth acted within the

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. DULUTH.
208 U.S.

589

Opinion of the Court.

power conferred on it by law to require railroad companies to
construct bridges and viaducts at their own expense at public
railroad crossings, and having investigated the subject, approved the plans prepared by the city engineer, and on the
thirteenth of July, 1903, passed the following resolution:
"Resolved, That the repairs set forth in said specifications
are necessary and proper, and are demanded by the public
safety and convenience.
"Resolved, further, That said repairs are reasonable and practicable for the repairs of said viaduct and its approaches; and
that said repairs as set forth in said specifications are hereby
adopted and approved.
"Resolved, further, That this council does hereby demand.
that the Northern Pacific Railway Company immediately proceed to repair said viaduct and approaches in accordance with
said specifications.
"Resolved, further, That a copy of this resolution be forthwith served upon the Northern Pacific Railway Company in
the same manner as service may be made of summons in a civil
action by the city clerk.
"Resolved, further, That in the event of the failure or refusal
of said company to comply with such demand that the city
attorney be and he is hereby.instructed to institute such action
or actions as to him may seem proper to compel the said railway company to make such repairs, or such portion thereof
as the court may determine it is legally liable to make."
It was in pursuance of this resolution that this action in
mandamu4 was begun and the writ issued, requiring the railroad company to make the repairs in accordance with the plans
adopted and approved by the city council.
We are met at the threshold with the question of the jurisdiction of this court. It is the contention of the plaintiff in
error that in requiring the railroad company to repair the via.duct at its own expense the obligation of the contract of- September 2, 1891, has been impaired by legislation of the municipal corporation, in violation of the contract clause of the

OCTOBER TERM, "1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

Constitution of the United States. In cases arising under this
clause of the Federal Constitution this court determines for
itself whether there is a contract valid and binding between
the parties, and whether its obligation has been, impaired by
the legislative action of the State. Stearns v. Minnesota, 179
U. S. 223, 233. If the plaintiff in error set up a claim of contract upon substantial grounds and with allegations showing
an impairment of its obligation by state or municipal legislation, a case was presented which might be brought to this
court in event such legislation was upheld. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. V. Nebraska, 170 U. S. 57.
It is no longer open to question that municipal legislation
passed under supposed legislative authority from the State is
within the prohibition of the Federal Constitution and void if
-it impairs the obligation of contracts. Mercantile Trust Company v. Columbus, 203 U. S. 311-320, and cases there cited.
But it is contended that the action of the city in this case
amounts to.no more than a denial of the validity and* binding
force of the contract in question and brings the case within
St. Paul Gaslight Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S. 142, followed in
City of Dawson v. Columbia Avenue Saving Fund, Safe Deposit,
Title & Trust Company, 197 U. S. 178. In the St. Paul case
the city refused to pay certain sums claimed to be due on contract of the company and ordered the gas posts to be removed
from the streets. Such a denial of liability, on the part of a
municipal corporation was contained in an ordinance to that
effect; it was held thiswas not legislation impairing the Obligation of the contract, and it was said in that case that the ordinance "created no new right or imposed no new duty substantially antagonistic, to the obligations of the contract, but simply
expressed the purpose of the city not in the future to pay the
interest on the cost of construction of the lamp posts which
were ordered to be removed. . . . When the Substantial
scope 9f this provision of the ordinance is thus clearly understood it is seen that tbe contention here advanced of impairment of the obligation of the contract arising from this pro-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. DULUTH.
208 U. a

591

Opinion of the Court.

vision of the ordinance reduces itself at once to the proposition,
that wherever it is asserted on the one hand that a municipality is bound by a contract to perform a particular act and
the municipality denies that it is liable under the contract to
do so, thereby an impairment of the obligations of the contract arises in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
But this amounts only t9 the contention that every case involving a controversy concerning a municipal contract is one
of Federal cognizance, determinable ultimately in this court.
Thus to reduce the proposition to its ultimate conception is to

demonstrate its error."
And such was the effect of the ordinance in the subsequent
case of City of Dawson v. Columbia Avenue Saving Fund, Sale
Deposit, Title & Trust Co., 197 U. S. 178.
We think the municipal legislation complained of in this case
amounts to more than a mere denial of liability or of the binding force of the former contract. The legislation which deprives one of the benefit of a contract or adds new duties or
obligations thereto necessarily impairs the obligation of the
contract, and when the state court gives effect to subsequent
state or municipal legislation which has the effect to impair
contract rights by depriving the parties of their benefit, and
make. requirements which the contract did not theretofore
impose upon.them, a case is presented for the jurisdicti6n of
this court. New Orleans Waterworks Co. v. Louisiana, 185
U.S. 336, 350, 351. And this jurisdiction has been frequently
exercised in cases of municipal ordinances haying this 'effect
upon prior contract rights. Vicksburg Waterworks Co. v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S. 65-81; City of Cleveland v. Ry. Co., .194 U. S.
517. As was said in City of Dawson v. Columbia Avenue
Savings Fund, Sale Deposit, Title & Trust Co., 197 U. S. 178,
it is not always easy to determine on which side of the line a
given case may fall. But recurring tO the resolution in this
case, we are of the opinion that it is legislative action which
impairs the obligation of the contract, if the contract is of
binding force, which is a question to be determined upon the.

. 92

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

merits. For the judgment of mandamus against the railroad
.company could not have -been rendered in this case without
the prior l'.gislation by the city ascertaining the necessity for
repairs upon the viaduct, the character and extent of the same,
and imposing upon the railroad company the duty to enter
upon the street and construct the improvement.
This municipal action is more than a mere denial of the obligation of the contract; it affirmatively requires that certain
improvements shall be made upon the viaduct by the railroad
company which the council deemed to be necessary. It required legislative action to determine the nature and character
of these improvements. The mandamus issued by the court is
but the carrying of the ordinance into effect: If the contract
was of binding force and effect it would relieve the railroad.
company from making such improvements within the right of
way for the period of fifteen years and permanently relieve it
of othr improvements upon the viaduct. To require that it
shall make these improvements within the period named, as
this legislation does, is to require the railroad to incur expenses
for things which the- city had expressly contracted to relieve
it from during the period mentioned. Assuming for jurisdictional purposes that the company had a valid claim of contract,
it was impaired by the legislation of the city in question, we
therefore think there is jurisdiction in the case. •
Passing to the merits, it is the contention of the railroad company that when this contract was made the Supreme Court of
Minnesota had decided that, as to highways which were constructed after the railroad was built, there was no obligation
upon the company to construct overhead bridges or crossings,
and whatever the rule might be as to requiring a railroad company to construct such overhead bridges in the interest of
public safety as to streets in. existence when the railroad was
built, it could. not. be required so to do when the highway was
constructed after the railway- had acquired its right of way
and laid its tracks.
It is difficult to perceive how a judicial determination that

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY t. DULUTH.
208 U.S.

593

Opinion of the Court.

the railroad company could not be charged with the expense
of such structures as this viaduct as to streets laid out after
the railroad was built, could have induced the agreement to
pay $50,000 towards the improvement in question in a street
first occupied by the railroad company. And the recitals of
the contract of September, 1891, are to the effect that the payment of the $50,000 was inlieu of assessments for benefits in
excess of damages for the taking of property of the railroad
company to be caused by said public improvement, which
might be imposed upon the property of the railroad company.
But was there such settled judicial construction? In the
case of State ex rel. City of Minneapolis v. St. Paul, Minneapolis & Manitoba Railway Company and Another, 98 Minnesota,
380, a case decided by that court upon the same day it handed
down its decision in the case at bar, the subject was elaborately
examined and a conclusion reached that the charter of. a railroad, similar to the one granted the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad Company above set forth, imposed an obligation
upon the railroad company as to highways, roads and streets,
over which the railroad was constructed, to keep the same in
good condition and repair, whether laid out after the building
of the railroad or before, and that such requirement in the
interest of public. safety embraced an overhead bridge fiecessary for the public safety, and that a requirement that it
should be built at the expense of the railroad company was an
exercise of the police power of the State, and did not amount
to taking property without due process of law. In that case
the cases relied upon by the learned counsel for the plaintiff
in error in this case is establishing a contrary doctrine, prior
to the making of the contract, were reviewed. They are:
State of Minnesota ex rel.. City of Minneapolis v. St. Paul,
Minneapolis & Manitoba Railroad Co., 35 Minnesota, 131, and
State of Minnesota ex rel. St. Paid, Minneapolis & Manitoba
Railroad Company v. District Court of Hennepin County, 42
Minnesota, 247. It was there pointed out, and we think corVOL. ccvin-38

5694

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U.S.

rectly, that while the learned court, in State oj Minnesota
ex rel. St. Paul, Minneapolis & Manitoba Railroad Company,
limited its ruling to cases where railroads had been constructed
in streets already laid out and expressly disclaimed that the
doctrine there announced would necessarily apply where a
new street had been laid out over the railroad after its construction, the question now made was not involved in the case,
and the decision then made was limited to existing streets only.
In the second case above cited (42 Minnesota, 247), while it was
held that planking the tracks at crossings was a part of the construction of the highway, and not a safety device for the protection of the thoroughfare, and therefore not within the proper
exercise of the police power, so that the cost thereof could be
required from the company, the court did say in the most emphatic manner that safety devices might be required at new
streets, and that cattle guards and gates were such safety devices, the construction of which would be required at the expense of the company. And the court said:
"When the railroad company accepted its charter it received
its franchises subject to the authority and power of the State
to impose such reasonable regulations concerning the use, in
matters affecting the common safety, of its dangerous enginery,
and not merely subject to the then existing regulations as applicable to then existing conditions; and whether the obligation now in question had been imposed at this time by direct
act of the legislature, or, as is the case, arises from the laying
out of a new •highway, to which the previously existing law
becomes applicable, can make no difference.
"The fallacy involved in the claim of the relator, and, as
we think, in some decisions by which its claim is supported,
arises from a failure to distinguish between rights of property,
which confessedly are protected under the Constitution from
being divested or appropriated to other purposes without compensation, and the very different matter concerning the manner in which the owner may use his property so as not to
unnecessarily endanger the public. The claim of the relator in-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. DULUTH.
208 U.S.

595

Opinion of the Court.

volves an assumption that when the railroad constructed-its
line of road, conforming to the requirements of the law as to.
all then existing highway crossings, it had a constitutional
right, by virtue of its priority, to always afterwards operate its
road unembarrassed by being required to observe like precautions with respect to highways that might be thereafter laid
out across the railroad, except upon the condition that it should
receive compensation, not merely for whatever of its acquired
property might be taken for the other use, but also for the expense and burden of conforming its own c6nduct to the newlyexisting conditions--of conforming to a general police regulation of the State, not before applicable. There was no such
exclusive or superior right acquired by priority of charter, or
of the construction of this railroad highway. It cannot be
supposed that, when its franchises were granted to this relator
to construct and operate this railroad, it was contemplated,
either by it or by the State, that no more public highways
should be laid out which should increase the number of places
where the ordinary police regulations would have to be complied with by the railroad company to its inconvenience and
expense. On the contrary, it must have been understood and
contemplated, especially in a new State rapidly advancing in
population and in the development of its resources, where new
towns were springing up, and new avenues for travel and
traffic were becoming necessary, that new streets and roads
would be and must be laid out, and that many of these would
necessarily cross existing railroad lines. We cannot resist the
conclusion that, so far as concerns the matter now under consideration, the charter of the relator was taken subject to the
right of the State to impose this duty whenever, by reason of
the establishing of new highways, it should become necessary;
and hence the relator is not .entitled to compensation for
obedience to this requirement. Lake Shore &c. Ry. Co. v.
Cincinnati &c. Ry. Co., 30 Ohio St. 604; Chicago & Alton.R.
Co. v. Jolict &c. R. Co., 105 Illinois, 388, 400, 404; City of Hannibal v. Hannibal & St. Joseph R. Co., 49 Missouri, 480; City o1

5o6

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U.S.

Bridgeportv. New York & New Haven R. Co., 36 Connecticut,
255."
As the Supreme Court of Minnesota points out in the opinion
in 98 Minnesota, 380, above referred to, the state courts are
not altogether agreed as to the right to compel railroads, without compensation, to construct and maintain suitable crossings
at streets extended over its right of way, after the construction
of the railroad. The great weight of state-authority is in favor
of such right. (See cases cited in 98 Minnesota, 380.)
There can be no question as to the attitude of this court upon
this question, as it has been uniformly held that the right to
exercise the police power is a continuing one; that it cannot be
contracted away, and that a requirement that a company or
individual comply with reasonable police regulations without
compensation is the legitimate exercise of the power and not
in violation of the constitutional inhibition against the impairment of the obligation of contracts. In New York & New
England Railroad Company v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556, 576, the
doctrine was thus laid down by Chief Justice Fuller, speaking
for the court:
"It is likewise thoroughly established in this court that the
inhibitions of .the Constitution of the United-States upon the
impairment of the obligation of contracts, or the deprivation
of property without due process, or of the equal protection of
the laws, by the States, are not violated by the legitimate exercise of legislative power in securing the public safety, health
and morals. The governmental power of self-protection cannot
be contracted away, nor can the exercise of rights granted, nor
the use of property, be withdrawn from the implied liability
to governmental regulations in particulars essential to the
preservation of the community from injury. Beer Co. v. Massachusetts,. 97 U. S. 25; Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S.
659; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; New Orleans Gas Company v. Louisiana Light Company, 115 U. S.650; Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517."
The principle was recognized and enforced in Chicago, Bur-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. DULUTH.
208 U.S.

597

Opinion of the Court.

linglm & Quincy R.R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, where it
was held that the expenses incurred by the railroad company
in erecting gates, planking at crossings, etc., and the maintenance thereof, in order that the road might be safely operated,
must be deemed to have been taken into account when the
company accepted its -franchise from the State, and the expenses incurred by the railroad company, though upon new
streets, might be required as essential to the public safety.
In Detroit Railroad Co. v. Osborne, 189 U. S. 383, it was held
that the State of Michigan might compel a street railroad to
install safety appliances at an expense to be divided with a
steam railroad company occupying the same street, notwithstanding the steam railroad was the junior occupier of the
street. The subject was further under consideration in New
Orleans Gas Light Co. v. Drainage Commission of New Orleans,
197 U. S. 453, where it was held, that although the gas company had permission from the city to lay its pipes up-der the
streets, it might be required to remove the same at its own
expense, in the exercise of the police power in the interest of
the public, in order to make way for a system of drainage which
was required, in the interest of the public health, without
compensation to the gas company; and that uncompensated
obedience to reguilations for public safety under the police
power of the State was not a taking of property without due
process of law.
The same principles were recognized and the previous cases
cited in.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. v. People. .o
the State of Illinois ex rel. DrainageCommissioners, 200 U. S.
561, and again in Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S.
364. The result of these cases is to establish the doctrine of
this court to be that the exercise of the police power in the interest of. public health and safety is to be maintained unhampered by contracts in private interests, and that uncomlensated
obedience to laws passed in its exercise is not violative of property rights protected by the Federal Constitution.
In this case the Supreme Court of Minnesota has held that.

OCTOBER TERM; 1907.
Syllabus.

208 U. S.

the charter of the company, as well as the common law, required the railroad, as to existing and future streets, to maintain them in safety, and to hold its charter rights subject to
the exercise of the legislative power in this behalf, and that any
contract which undertook to limit the exercise of this right was
without consideration, against public policy and void. This
doctrine is entirely consistent with the principles decided in
the cases referred to in this court. But it is alleged that at the
time this contract was made with the railroad company it
was at least doubtful as to what the rights of the parties were,
and that the contract was a legitimate compromise between
the parties, which ought to be carried out. But the exercise
of the police power cannot be limited by contract for reasons
of public policy, nor can it be destroyed by compromise, and
it is immaterial upon what consideration the contracts rest,
as it is beyond the authority of the State or the municipality
to abrogate this power so necessary to the public safety.
Chicago, Burlington. & Quincy R. R. C. v. Nebraska ex rel.
Omaha, 170 U. S. 57.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota, holding the contract to be void'and beyond the
power of the city to make, and it will, therefore, be
Affirmed.

HAIRSTON v. DANVILLE AND WESTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.
No. 6. Argued January 10, 13, 1908.-Decided February 24. 1908.
C

Where the condemnation of land has been held by the state court to be

authorized by the constitution and laws of that State this court cannot
review that aspect of the decision.
Where the state law, as is the case with the law of Virginia, permits no
exercise of the right of eminent domain except for public uses, a general

