OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

208 U. S.

no conditions upon it. United States v. Thurston County,
143 Fed. Rep. 287; National Bank of Commerce v. Anderson,
147 Fed. Rep. 87.
The restriction upon alienation, however, it is contended,.
does not extend to the timber, and United States v. Paine Lumber'Co., 206 U. S. 467, is adduced as conclusive of this. We do
not think so. There, as said by the Solicitor General, the land
granted was arable, and could be of no use until the timber
was cut; here the land granted is all timber land. And that the
distinction is important to observe is illustrated by the allegations of the complaint. It is alleged that the value of the
land, exclusive of the timber, is no more than $1,000; fifteen
thousand dollars' worth of lumber has been cut from the land.
The restraint upon alienation would be reduced to small consequence if it be confined to one-sixteenth of the value of the
land and fifteenth-sixteenths left to the unrestrained or unqualified disposition of the Indian. Such is not the legal effect
of the patent.
Judgment affirmed.

DRUMM',FLATO COMMISSION COMPANY v. EDMISSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 139. Submitted January 27, 1908.-Decided Febnuary 24.1908.

In this case this court finds that the evidence was so far conflicting as to
remove the verdict of the jury from reversal by an appellate tribunal.
-Under par. 4277, § 399 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Oklahoma of
1893, the original books of entry must be produced on the trial; their
prodiuction before the notary taking the deposition of the witness who
kept the books is not sufficient, and copies made by the notary cannot
be used where the objecting party gives notice that the production of
the books themselves will be insisted upon.
While there may be a general rule that in actions for tort an allowance for
interest is. not an absolute right, under par. 2640, 1 23 of the Oklahoma
Cod6 oI 898,tbe detriment caused by, and recoverable for, the wrongful'

DRUMM-FLATO COMMISSION CO. v. EDMISSON. 535
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

conversion of pefional property is the value of the property at the time
of the conversion with interest from that time.
Where the local statute provides, as does par. 4176, 1 298 of the Oklahoma
Code of 1893, that on request the court may direct the jury to find upon
particular questions of fact, the verdict will not be set aside because the
jury fails to answer an interrogatory improvidently submitted in regard
to a fact which was only incidental to the issue.
Objections to remarks of the trial court which counsel consider prejudicial
must be taker. at the time so that if the court does not then correct what
is misleading its action is subject to review.
87 Pac. Rep. 311, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. JamesS. Botsford, with whom Mr. Buckner F. Deatherage
and Mr. Odus G. Young were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.

Mr. Elijah Robinson and Mr. Charles Suinda/ for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action brought by defendant in error against
plaintiff in error for $8,000, for the conversion of 410 head of
cattle. The case was tried to a jury, which returned a verdict
for the sum of $7,436.06. The jury also returned with the
general verdict answers to special interrogatories which were
submitted at the request of the Commission Company. Judgment was entered upon the verdict, which was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the. Territory of Oklahoma. This writ of
error was then sued out:
The assignments of error assail the sufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict and judgment and certain rulings
of the trial court.
1. As to the sufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict, we may say that we agree with the courts below. Upon
the questions of fact presented the evidence was so far conflicting as to remove the verdict of the jury-and-the action of
the lower courts from reversal by an appellate tribunal. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

issue betweeh the parties was clearly defined. Edmisson had
become indebted to the Commission Company in large amounts
of money, secured by certain notes and chattel mortgages on
the cattle which are the subject of the action.
In full satisfaction of the indebtedness the company and he
entered into an agreement on November 22, 1899,1 by which
he agreed to deliver to the company 1,900 of the cattle as they
run on the range, if that number could be found, of various
ages. And it was further agreed that if, after the delivery of
that number, Edmisson should gather as many as 200 head
he should turn over 100 of them to the company, or if he delivered as many as 2,000 head, "any residue thereafter" was
"to be retained by said Edmisson." Ed-misson contended that
he delivered 1,700 head in compliance with this agreement and
was ready and had "rounded up" about 350 head of other
cattle and held them for a time -ready to deliver to the cornpany. These cattle, after being held for a time, were turned
I This agreement, made and entered into this 22d day of November, 1899,
by and b6tween Drumm-Flato'Commission Company, party of the first part,
and R. C. Edmisson, party of the second part.
Witnesseth, That said R. C. Edmisson, the second party, hereby agrees
to deliver to Drumm-Flato Commission Company nineteen hundred (1,900)
head of cattle as they run on the range (provided the same can be found to
make this number of head) of various ages, and on which said DruminFhlto Commission Company hold a chattel mortgage.

The parties of the first part agree, in consideration of the delivery of the
above-mentioned number of cattle, to deliver to said second party, R. C.
Edmissrn, all of his notes, mortgages and other indebtedness due said
Drun-m-F'lato Commission Company to this date.
It is further agreed by the parties mentioned that if Mr. Edmisson gathers
as many as 200 head after the'delivery to.Drumm-Flato Commission Coinpay of said nineteen hundred head of cattle, he is to turn over 100 head
of the 200 gathered, or in case said Edmisson delivers to said Drumm-Flato
Commission Company as many as two thousand head of cattle, any residue
thereafter is to be retained by said Edmisson.
In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands the day and year
above written.
R. C. EDMISSON,
DR1Mm-FLATO COM. CO.,

Per A. Dawubta, P't.

DRUMM-FLATO COMMISSION CO. v. EDMISSON. 537
2108 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

loose in a larger pasture. And Edmisson further contended
that the company, by its agents, forcibly took from his ranges
*and pastures in excess of the number the company was entitled to under the agreement, and for this conversion the
action was brought. Edmisson's evidence was addressed to
the proof of these contentions.
The counter contentions of the Commission Company were
that Edmisson delivered to it only 1,550 head of cattle, and
that he refused to deliver any more, and, instead of delivering
enough more to comply with his agreement, he scattered them
through the various pastures in bunches at distances of forty
or fifty miles from his range and it was with difficulty that
the company, through its agents, collected 356 head, making
in all 1,881 head. In support of these contentions evidence
was adduced and. the jury rendered the verdict already mentioned.
2. The'next assignment of error is that the court erred in
rejecting the books of account kept by the Commission Company, showing the number of cattle received and sold by the
company. In support of the contention involved in this assignment of error the Commission Company relies on par. 4277
of the statutes of Oklahoma of 1893 and the case of Kesler v.
Cheadle, 12 Oklahoma, 489, and Drumm-Flato Commission
Company v. Gerlach Bank, 81 S. W. Rep. 503.
Par. 4277, § 399, is as follows: "Entries in books of account
may be admitted in.evidence when it is made to appear by the
oath of the -person who made the entries, that such entries are
correct, and were made at or near the time of the transactiorn.
to which they relate, or upon proof of the handwriting of the
person who made the entries, in case of his death or absence
from the county."
To the contention the Supreme Cdurt of the Territory replied, that the entries were not part of the res gestr, that besides the books were not produced, and that neither they-nor
the original entries were attached to the deposition of the
.witness, nor were they shown to be lost or destroyed; "We

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court. -

208 U. S.

know of no rule of evidence," the court said, "that would permit a witness to state the entries or the contents of a book of
account unless the book were lost or destroyed."
It is, however, contended that the books were before the
notary public who took the deposition of the bookkeeper, and
that copies of the entries were made by the notary. But when
the copies were offered as evidence they were immediately objected to as incompetent and immaterial and not the best evidence. The Commission Company was therefore put upon
notice that the production of the books themselves would be
insisted on. The notary was not trying the case, and before
the court and jury who were trying it the objections to the
copies of the entries were renewed. We think that the books
should have been produced. They were intended as independent evidence-independent of the witness from whose returns
they were made. But if it should be granted their exclusion
was error, it is difficult to see how the Commission Company
was prejudiced. The persons who received the cattle at the
place they were delivered to the company, and the employ6
of the company who sold them after they were received and
from whose report the books were made up, all were permitted
to testify. And it may be that the entries in the books were
inadmissible for the other reasons given by the Supreme Court.
They were not entries of any transaction relating to the cattle
between the Commission Company and Edmisson. They were
entries of sales made by the Commission Company after the
cattle had been delivered to its agent and shipped to it by that
agent.
3. Error is assigned upon the instruction of the court that.
if the jury found a conversion of the property seven per cent
interest should be added to its value from the time of its conversion. The contention is that interest can only be given in
actions by a creditor against a debtor, and that par. 2615, § 7
of the Oklahoma statutes of 1893 controls. That section reads
as follows."
"In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from

DRUMM-FLATO COMMISSION CO. v. EDMISSON. 539
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

contract, and in every case of oppression, fraud or malice, interest may be given in the discretion of the jury."
The Supreme Court of the Territory rejected the contention,
deciding that par. 2640, § 23, governed the case. It provides
as follows: "The detriment caused by the wrongful conversion
of personal property is presumed to be: First. The value of the
property at the time of the conversion, with interest from that
time." There was no error in this ruling. It may be that in
the absence of statute the general rule is that in actions for
tort the allowance of interest is not an absolute right; Lincoln
v. Claflin, 7 Wall. 132; The Scotland, 118 U. S. 507; District ol
Columbia v. Robinson, 180 U. S. 92; Frazer v. Bigelow Carpet
Co., 141 Massachusetts, 126; but the Oklahoma statute has
made interest a part of the detriment caused by the conversion
of personal property. Other States have done the same.
4. The next assignment of error is based upon the refusal of
the court to require an answer to interrogatory nurmber 5, as
to the number of Edmisson's cattle the agent of the Comrnission Company shipped from Curtis to Kansas City.
To establish error in the refusal of the court plaintifis in
error cite par. 4176, § 298, of the Civil Code of the Territory,
which provides that in all cases the jury shall render a general
verdict, and the court shall in any case, at "the request of the
parties thereto, or either of them, in addition to the general
verdict, direct the jury to find upon particular questions of

fact, to be stated in writing by the party or parties requesting
the same."
It certainly cannot be contended that the statute requires
every interrogatory to be answered, however remote the fact
it inquires about may be from the issue. The Supreme Court
of the Territory pointed out that the fact inquired into was only
incidental to the issue, and was besides undefined and uncertain as to time. The number of cattle shipped might have
some bearing or relation of proof to the number delivered,
which was the issue 'in the case, but under the circumstances
and conditions ot the other proofs it was within the discretion

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

of the court to decide whether a specific answer should or
should not have been reqdired. Indeed, the interrogatory
seems to have been improvidently submitted, for the Supreme
Court, in its opinion, says:
"The evidence disclosed that a large number of Edmisson
cattle had been shipped to Kansas City, in various shipments.
Bryson testifies that the total number of cattle shipped was
2,578. There was no dispute on the .part of the plaintiff as to
the number of cattle that were shipped. The entire controversy was as to the number of cattle that were delivered .by the
plaintiff to the agent of the defendant, and the number converted after allowing the defendaDt all that it was entitled to
under and pursuant to the contract."
5. Plaintiffs in error finally complain as ground oferror of
certain remarks by the court which, it is contended, were
prejudicial. The Supreme Court replied. to this assignment
of error that no objection had been .taken to the remarks complained of. Counsel now say that to have made objection
would have made "a bad matter much worse." But we cannot accept the excuse. We have examined the remarks complained of, and we do not think they had the misleading strength
that is attributed to them. At any rate, it was'the duty of
counsel to object to th.rm, and if then the court made matters
worse, or did not correct what was misleading or prejudicial,
its action would be subject to review.
.judgment affirmed.

