STARR v. CAMPBELL
208 U.B.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

STARR v. CAMPBELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR- THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 132.

Argued January 23, 24, 1908.-Decided February 24. 1908.

The restrictions on the right of alienation of lands to be allotted in severalty

under the Chippewa Treaty of 1854 extend to the disposition of timber
on the land as well as to the land itself; and the consent of the President
to a contract for cutting timber does not end his control over the matter;
he may put conditions upon the disposition of the proceeds. Uni d

States v. Paine Lumber Co., 206 U. S. 467, distinguished.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. M. Tomkins for plaintiff in error:
Indian allottees under the Chippewa treaty of 1854 are
vcsted with sufficient tit!- in their allotments to authorize the
sale by them of their standing timber without the approval. of
the President. United States v. Paine Lumber Co., 206 U. S.
467.
In this case the United States has parted with the legal title
by a p tent in the usual form, except that it contains a restriction, hat the grantee shall not sell, lease or in any manner
alienate the tract of land without the consent of the President.
Such a patent conveys the title in fee simple to the grantee.
Libby v. Clark, 118 U. S. 250; Schrimpscher v. Stockton, 183
U. S. 290; Lykins v. McGrath, 184 U. S. 169.
The restriction in the patent is simply upon the alienation
of the "tract of land." By the terms of the treaty the land is
assigned to the allottee for his separate use. The allottee can
use. timber land if he cannot. dispose of the timber. United
States v. Paine Lumber Co., 206 U. S. 467.
What the allottee can himself do, he can also do by an agent.
If he has the right to cuft the timber himself -he can certainly
authorize another to cut it for him.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
ArguWent for Defendant in Error.

208 U. S.

The sale of the standing timber in this case was consented
to by the President. The land is not the land of the United
States, and the timber when cut did not become the property
of the United States.'
When consent to alienation is given, the President's authority over the matter is ended. Permission once given cannot be revoked. Doe v. Beardsley, 2 McLean, 412. Limitations
and restrictions on the use of property are not favored, and
although they will be enforced when the intent is clear, ordinarily all doubts will be resolved against them. Wakefield v.
Van Tassell, 95 Am. St. Rep. 267, note.A, page 214. The consent of the President is no formal proceeding; it is a mere matter of permission. Lontax v. Pickering, 173 U. S. 26.
Where the United States conveys property to an Indian absolutely, that is, without any condition'or restriction on its
alienation, he can dispose of the same at his pleasure and give
good title to his grantee. United States v. Ritchie, 17 How.
525; Mann v. Wilson, 23 How. 457; Crews v. Burchman, 1
Black, 352; Wilson v. W1Vall, 6 Wall. 83; Pennock v. Conmrs.,
103 U. S. 44; Etwood v. Flannigan, 104 U. S. 563; Jones v.
Meehan, 175 U. S. 1.
The patent in this case is not one of the so-called trust
patents, provided for in the Dawes Act of February 8, 1887,
under which the United States retains the legal title, and is the
trustee with the rights of such trustee 1.i) tim trust property
in whatever form it may be found.
Here the patent conveys to thendia the absolute litle in
fee subject only to the restriction upoi alieiLtiou.
The Solicitor General for defendant in error:
That conferring citizenship upon an In, ian does not necessarily free him from the guardianship of the United States in
respect to property granted him by the General Government
has been recognized. both by this and other Federal courts.
United States v. Rickert, 188 U. S. 432; Matter of Hefi, 197 U. S.
488, 508, 509; Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S, 294,

S'ARR v. CAMPBELL.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

307, 308; United States v. Thurston Co., 143 l'ed. Rep. 287,
-Circuit Court of Appeals, Eighth Circuit; National Bank of
Commerce v. Anderson, 147 Fed. Rep. 87, Circuit Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit; Hitchcock V. United States ex rel. Bigboy,
22 App. D. C. 275.
The restriction upon alienation embraces the sale'of the
standing timber. " Hitchcock v. United States ex rel. Bigboy,
supra. It is an elementary principle of the common law that
standing timber is a part of the .ealty. Udtited States v. Cook,
19 Wall. 591, 593; Blackstone's Commentaries, Bk. 2, p: 18;Williamson, Real Property, pp. 78, .79.
It seems fair to say that, as Congress had been repeatedly
advised by the reports of the Interior :Department of'the conditions as to "logging" upon the Bad River and other reservations in Wisconsin, it is both the legislative and executive
construction of the treaty of September 30, 1854, .with the
Chippewas, that the restriction upon alienation covered the
timber upon such lands. United States v. Paine Lumber Co.,
206 U. S. 467, discussed and distinguished.
Assuming that the sale of the timber would be an alienation
of the -land within the meaning of the treaty of 1854, and the.
patents issued thereunder, and- that such timber could not
therefore be'sold without his consent, the President, as a condition of his cone'nt, might make any proper regulation with
regard to the disposi ion of the proceeds thereof that the wel.
fare of the allottee might appear to hin to require. United
States v. Thurston Co., 143 Fed. Rep. 287; National Bank of
Commerce v. Anderson, 147 Fed. Rep. 87.
By leave of court, Mr. Charles Quarles and Mr. Francis H.
De Groat filed.a brief herein on behalf of the Red Cliff Lumber
Company, as interested in the decision of this cause.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

.This writ of error is directed to a judgment sustaining a demurrer to a complaint in an actiQn to recover certain moneys
voL. Oovi-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

collected by the defendant who is an Indian agent, for timber
.ut from plaintiff's allotment. The case comes directly from
the Circuit Court as involving the construction of a treaty.
The plaintiff is an infant Indian of the Chippewa Indians of
the Lake Superior, and Tomkins is his duly appointed guardian.
A summary of the complaint is as follows:
On the first of October, 1901, the plaintiff then residing on
the Bad River Indian Reservation, the President of the United States, in accordance with the provisions of the third article of the treaty, concluded September 30, 1854, with the
Chippewa Indians of the Lake Superior, approved a selection
of land made by plaintiff and assigned to him the west half of
the southeast quarter of section four, township forty-six north,
of range three west, of the fourth principal meridian in the
State of Wisconsin.
Article three of the treaty is as follows (Indian Affairs Treaty,
Volume of 1904, p. 648; 10 Stat. 1109):
"Article three The United States will define the boundaries
of the reserved tracts, whenever it may be necessary, by actual
survey, and the President may, from time to time, at his discretion, cause the whole to be surveyed, and may assign to
each-head of a fanrily,.or a single person over twenty-one years
of.age, eighty acres of land for his or their separate use; and he
may, at his discretion, as fast as the occupants become capable
of transacting.their own affairs, issue patents therefor to such
occupants' witli such restrictions on the power of alienation as
he may see fit to impose. And he may, also at his discretion,
make rules and regulations respecting the disposition of the
lands in case of the death of the head of a family or single person occupying the same, or in case of'its abandonment by them.
And he may also assign other lands in exchange for mineral
lands, if any such are found in the tracts herein set apart.
And he may also make such changes in the boundaries 6f such
reserved tracts or otherwise as shall be necessary to prevent
interference With any vested rights. All necessary roads, highwrays and railroads, the lines of which may run through any

STARR
208 U.S.

t.

CAMPBELL.

531

Opinion of the Court.

of the reserved tracts, shall have the right of way through the
i
same, compensation being made therefor as in other cases."
By the act of Congress of February 11, 1901, c. 350, 31 Stat.
766, the right to allotments was extended to all-Indians then
residing on the La Pointe or Bad River Reservation, irrespective of age or condition. A patent was duly issued on the.
twenty-ninth of June, 1905, to plaintiff, and the land conveyed,
exclusive of the merchantable timber standing thereon, is of
the value of $1,000. On the eighth of January, 1902, the plaintiff made a contract with one Justus S. Stearns, by which he
agreed to sell him the merchantable lumber under the rules
and regulations approved by the President, December 8, 1893,
standing or fallen, on said lands, and the said Stearns agreed
to cut and remove the same, employing Indian labor therein,
and pay to the United States Indian agent for the La Pointe
agency, in trust for the plaintiff, certain designated sums, according to the kind of lumber cut. There were other details,
which need not be-mentioned. The agreement.was subject
to the approval of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
A copy of the regulations made in 1893 is attached to the
contract, Rule 7 of which is the only one material, and is as
follows:
"7. After deducting one-half of the cost of the scaling and
other necessary expenses chargeable against the same, the
proceeds of. timber sold from the unallotted portions of the
reservation shall be paid to the Indian agent, to be expended
for the relief, and benefit of the Indians of the reservation under
the direction of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and the
proceeds of timber taken from the allotted lands of the reservation shall, after the deductions above stated, be deposited
in Some national bank subject to check of the Indian owner of
the allotment, countersigned by the Indian agent of the La
Pointe agency, unless otherwise stipulated in contracts with
particular Indians."
In December, 1902, the President amended that rule by
adding thereto the following.:

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

"If the Indian agent shall in any case be of the opinion that
the allottee is not competent to manage his own affairs, he
shall, subject to the approval of the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs, have authority to fix the suai or sums, if any, such
allottee shall be permitted to withdraw from depisit."
The Commissioner of Indian Affairs modified the agreement
so as to make it subject to the amendment, and approved it as
modified.
Between January, 1902, and the first of October, 1905,
Stearns cut and removed under the contract timber of the
value of at least $15,000, and paid that amount to the defendant for the use and benefit of the plaintiff, and that of that sum
defendant has paid plaintiff only the sum of $3,100. Demand
was made upon the defendant for the payment of the balance,
but he refused, and still re~uses, to pay the same, and announces
that he will only pay plaintiff the sum of $10 per month, and
claims the right to hold the same and pay the same out as he
may be directed by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
Prior to the amendment of Rule 7 it had been for many years
the established custom of the agents of the La Pointe Indian
agency to pay the allottees under timber contracts the amount
payable as fast as demanded by such allottees, such payments
being left entirely to the Indian agents, the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs in no manner interfering or attempting to control such payments, and that the defendant was the first to
adopt the rule and practice of. limiting payments to $10 per
month, as he in his discretion thought best, giving as a reason
therefor'instructions from the Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
Plaintiff alleges that it does not fail within the scope of the
authority of the Commissioner to interfere with the disposition
of the money by the Indian agent, and that the guardian of
the plaintiff is the proper party to determine how much shall
be paid to and expended for plaintiff.
Damages are alleged at $11,900, and judgment is prayed for
that amQunt.
The argument of this case has taken a somewhat wide range,

STARR v. CAMPBELL.
208 U. 8'

Opinion of the Court.

and counsel in other litigations for the Red Cliff Lumber Company have, by permission of this court, submitted a brief in
support of the judgment of the Circuit Court. We think, how,
ever, the case is in narrow compass and depends for its decision
upon the power reserved to the President by article three of the
treaty, the patent and the terms of the contract with Stearns.
It must at the outset be kept in mind that a policy of control.
over the Indians has always been observed by the Government.
The many exercises of the policy which have been sustained
by this court we need not stop to comment on. This policy is
*exercised in article three in the power reserved to the President
to put in the patent "such restrictions upon the power of alienation as he may see fit to impose." In the exercise of this
power the patent to plaintiff contains the condition that he
shall not "sell, lease or in any manner alienate" the tract conveyed "without the consent of the President of the United
States." There is a careful repetition of the conditions in the
habendum that "all the rights, privileges, immunities and appurtenances" conveyed should be limited by the condition.
On December 6, 1893, the President made rules and regulations to govern contracts for the sale of timber by the Indians
to whom allotments had been made and patents issued, prescribing certain conditions and prices, and requiring such contracts to be approved by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs,
which approval, it was provided, should "operate as specific
consent of the Executive to the sale of the timber to which the
contract relates." Rule 7, which we have already given, was
part of these rules and regulations. In December, 1902, however, the President made tn order amending Rule 7, giving the
Indian agent, subject to the approval of the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs, authority to fix the sum or sums, if any, an
allottee should be permitted towithdraw from deposit. Subject to this addition to Rule 7 the contract with Stearns was
made and the timber cut. We cannot yield to the contention
that the consent of the President to the eontract ended his
authority over the matter. In other words, that he could put

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

208 U. S.

no conditions upon it. United States v. Thurston County,
143 Fed. Rep. 287; National Bank of Commerce v. Anderson,
147 Fed. Rep. 87.
The restriction upon alienation, however, it is contended,.
does not extend to the timber, and United States v. Paine Lumber'Co., 206 U. S. 467, is adduced as conclusive of this. We do
not think so. There, as said by the Solicitor General, the land
granted was arable, and could be of no use until the timber
was cut; here the land granted is all timber land. And that the
distinction is important to observe is illustrated by the allegations of the complaint. It is alleged that the value of the
land, exclusive of the timber, is no more than $1,000; fifteen
thousand dollars' worth of lumber has been cut from the land.
The restraint upon alienation would be reduced to small consequence if it be confined to one-sixteenth of the value of the
land and fifteenth-sixteenths left to the unrestrained or unqualified disposition of the Indian. Such is not the legal effect
of the patent.
Judgment affirmed.

DRUMM',FLATO COMMISSION COMPANY v. EDMISSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 139. Submitted January 27, 1908.-Decided Febnuary 24.1908.

In this case this court finds that the evidence was so far conflicting as to
remove the verdict of the jury from reversal by an appellate tribunal.
-Under par. 4277, ยง 399 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Oklahoma of
1893, the original books of entry must be produced on the trial; their
prodiuction before the notary taking the deposition of the witness who
kept the books is not sufficient, and copies made by the notary cannot
be used where the objecting party gives notice that the production of
the books themselves will be insisted upon.
While there may be a general rule that in actions for tort an allowance for
interest is. not an absolute right, under par. 2640, 1 23 of the Oklahoma
Cod6 oI 898,tbe detriment caused by, and recoverable for, the wrongful'

