•THE TROY.
208 U. S.

Syllabus.

each of them by the vessel proceeded against, as well as damage to shore dock, abutment; protection piling, pier and dock
foundation by a wash said to be due to the increased current
arising from partial damming of the stream by -the three vessels, brought into such position by the alleged fault of the
vessel proceeded against, was sought to be recovered. But
the bridges, shore docks, protection piling, 'piers, etc.,. pertained to the land. They were structures connected with the
shore and immediately concerned commerce upon land. None
of these structures were aids to navigation in the maritime
-sense, but extensions of the shore and aids to commerce on
land as such.
'The proposition contemied for is that the jurisdiction of
the admiralty court should be extended to "any claim for
damages by any ship," according to the. English statute; but
we are not inclined to disturb the rule that has been settled
for so many years because of some' supposed convenience.
Unless we do that, this decree must be affirmed and
It is so ordered.

THE TROY.'
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
..No. 232. Submitted December 20, 1907.-Decided February 24, 1908.

Cleveland Terminal Co. v. Steamship Co., ante, p. 316, followed to effect that
the admiralty does not have jurisdiction of a claim for damages to a
bridge which, although in navigable waters, is so connected with the land
that it immediately concerns commerce on land.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Docket title, No. 232, Duluth & Superior Bridge Company v. Steamer
"Troy," her Boilers, Engines, etc.
voL. CCvIII--21

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

Mr. Chards E. Kremer and Mr. John A..Murphy for appellant.
Mr. Harvey D. Goulder, Mr. Frank S. Masten, Mr. H. A.
Kelley, Mr. H. R. Spencer and Mr. S. H. Holding for appellee.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Daluth. and Superior Bridge Company owned and
operated a bridge -between the cities of Duluth,- Minnesota,
and Superior, Wisconsin, .over the St. Louis River, a navigable
stream. The bridge was equipped with a swinging span, supported on a.turntable resting on a base of stone and piles driven
into the bottom of the river, leaving a space for the passage of
vessels on either side of the supporting structure. When closed
its ends rested upon permanent abutments, forming a passageway over the stream for street cars and foot passengers, and
when opened allowing the passage of the largest lake steamers.
On August 11, 1906, the merchant steamer Troy, inbound,
struck the center pier protection and glanced into the draw of
the bridge, inflicting heavy damage. The bridge company
filed a libel against the Troy in the Distridt Court for the Westem District of Wisconsin in admiralty, claiming large damages.
The Western Transit Company, owner of the Troy, filed exceptions to the libel, as follows:
"1st. That it appears from'the averments of the libel that
the bridge alleged to have, been. njured was a structure on
land, for purposes of land travel and convenience exclusively,
not erected, maintained or operated. in. any sense or in any
degree in aid of navigation, but, on the contrary, an obstruction
ana impediment to the navigation of a liublic navigable water"
channel and highway, a part of the public waters of the United.
States, then and there navigable, to ships engaged in commerce and navigation.
"2d. That whatever of damage came to thebridge occurred

-

THE TROY.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

on land, and no part of the same occurred or was suffered on
water in- place or manner within the jurisdiction of an admiralty court of the United States.
"3d. That the'claim'of damage propounded .in the libel fails
to show a case within the admiralty jurisdiction of this honorable court, according to the grant of such jurisdiction in' the
Constitution of. the United States and the course and practice
in admiralty:courts of the United States.'?
The court sustained the exceptions and dismissed the libel
with costs,' whereupon the case was brought by appeal to this
court, the question of jurisdiction being certified.
The Cleveland 'Terminal & Valley. Railroad Company v.
The Cleveland. Steamship Company, ante, p. 316, just decided,
involved substantially the same questions of jurisdiction that
are involved in this case. There the steamer Reis collided
with the center protection of a bridge located in-the navigable
channel of the Cuyahoga River and injured it, and at thq same
time the abutment or shore end of the bridge, and the wharf
or dock in 'the vicinity. Iri that case -the bridge itself was not
injured, while in this case the- center protection and bridge
were both injured. The views we have expressed in that case
must govern the disposition of this case, and the
Decree is. affirmed.

