CASES ADJUDGED
IN TEU

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.

CARRINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINi
No. 223.

ISLANDS.

Argued December 16, 1907.-Decided January 6,1908.

An office commonly requires something more than a single trnsitory act
to call it into being.
A money contribution by the Philippine Government to the pedormance
of certain military functions, and entrusting the funds to an officer of
the United States Army, who is held to military responsibility therefor
'by court-iatial, does not make that officer a civil officer of the Philip.
pine Government and amenable to trial in the civil courts for, falsification of his accounts as a public official.
The fact that an officer of the United States Army, entrusted with money
by the Philippine Government to be expended in connection with his military command, signs his account "Disbursing Officer" instead of by his
military title, does not make him a civil officer of the Philippine Government; and quire whether he could become such:a civil officer in view
of the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 567, prohibiting the appointment
of officers of the United States Army to civil offices.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

-Mr.-Holme Con'ad, with whom Mr. R. A. Ballinge W
error:.
on the brief, for plaintiff in.
It appears from the record that the plaintiff in error was
:VOL;.'CV

I

-1

" :1) "

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

208 U. S.

not on February 12, 1904, or at any other time, a public officer
of the United States civil government of the Philippine Islands,
nor. was he a duly appointed, qualified, and apting disbursing
officer for public funds of that government, as stated in the
charge. Accused could not be a public official of such civil
government at *anytime under the laws of the United States.
22 Stat. 567; 1st Supp. Rev. Stat., ch. 124, p. 412.
The charge against this man is official misconduct, "abuse
of his office." To sustain this criminal charge, there must be
shown, .first, that there was such an office as that which he
is charged with having held; secondly, that he was duly appointed to that office; thirdly, that he qualified as such officer;
fourthly, that he actually held that office under such appointment and qualification; and, fifthly, that the "abuse of his
office" with which he is charged, Viz., that he did "falsify a
public or official document of which he had charge," is an
offense known to the common law, or the statute law, or even
to the Philippine law. In re Bonner, 151 U. S. 259.
While. holding the office of major of the First Infantry,
United States Army, and while on duty as such officer, under
the assignment and orders of his superior officers, he was not
amenable to the courts or subject to the laws of the civil
government of the Philippine Islands for any *offense comrnitted by him in connection with the performance of his
duties as a major of infantry in the United States Army.
As citizen of the United States and a commissioned officer
of its army, lawfully stationed in the Philippine Islands, he was
entitled to a trial by jury.
I The punishment to which he was sentenced was illegal because cruel and unusual.
The Solicitor General for defendant in error:
The facts as to defendant's holding a civil office were that
upon his own initiative, by resolution of the Philiopine Commission and the action of the Governor, he was designated to
receive, expend and account for a certain fund for the Philip-

CARRINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
208 U.S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

pine Scout Exhibit at the St. Louis Exposition, and he accepted
the post and acted accordingly. The Philippine Supreme Court
found that he acted as a publie official and took part in the
performance of public duties. Whether he"held a civil office
or not, strictly speaking, he was empowered by competent
authority, he accepted and discharged the duties imposed
upon him, and held himself out as a public official of the
Philippine government. He was thus an officer de facto, and
not a mere intruder, and he cannot escape liability by deny'ing title. Hussey v. Smith, 99'U. S: 20; Buck v. City o] Eureka,
109"California, 504; Allen v. McNeel, 1 Mills (S. Car.), 229;
Diggs v. State, 49 Alabama, 311; People v. Church, 1 How. Pr.
366; State v. Long, 76 N. Car. 254;. Wendeltv.Fleming, 8 Gray,
613. He was an official within §401 of the Philippine Penal
Code. And see 2 Viada, 695, as to the wide extension and
latitude of the law.
The provisions of § 1222, and par. 4, § 1860, Rev.. Stat.,
as amended, are inapplicable. They apply to the United States
and organized Territories and not to the Philippines. They
were enacted long before the islands were acquired, and their
provisions have not been extended. to the islands. Evidently
neither Carrington nor his military superiors thought that he,
was subject to these prohibitions.
Carrington was not entitled to a trial by jury. Dorr v.
United States, 195 U. S.138. A soldier has no greater right
than any other person in this respect. In the United States
.heis amenable to the civil courts for civil offenses, and if he is,
sent under the orders of his commanding officers to a State
where the common. law as to juries is not followed, he could
not demand presentment and trial under the Constitution.
The constitutional guarantees of trial by jury apply only to
citizens and others within the United States or who are brought
there.for trial for offenses committed elsewhere, and not to
residents or temporary -sjourners abroad. In re Ross, 140
U. S.453. The reasoning of that .decision applies equally to
citizens,. whether soldiers or not, in a territorial possession of

SOCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Oourt.

208U. S.

the United States and beforg courts under the authority of
the United States proceeding without a jury. To have two
systems in the Philippines for different classes of persons is an
impossible conception, and would be inconsistent with the
express guarantee of the equal protection of the laws to all
persons in theislands, contained in the Philippine Bill of Rights.
There is no foundation for the idea or claim that Carrington
as an officer of the army was not subject to the jurisdiction
'of the Philippine courts at all. Nothing to that effect was
intimatea in Grafton v. United States, 206 U. S. 333. The points
*of decision in that case involved the implication that the military and civil jurisdiction were concurrent, and that the civil
trial and conviction there would have been valid if the courtmartial had not first tried and acquitted. The question always
is, which jurisdicticn attaches first? Tne civil courts took jurisdiction here, and subsequently, Carrington was court-martinled
on the same transactions under the 61st Article of War, and
was dismissed from the service.
-MR.

JUSTICE

HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error was convicted in the Court of First
Instance, and, on appeal, by the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, of the crime of falsification of a public document
by a public official. He brings the case here by writ of error,
setting up rights under the Constitution. and statutes of the
United States that were denied by the decision below.
The complaint alieges that the plaintiff in error "being then
and there a public official of the United States civil government of the Philippine Islands, to wit, a duly appointed and
commissioned miajor of the First Infantry, United States Army,
and the duly designated, qualified and acting commander of
the Provisional Battalion of. the Philippine Scouts, and a duly
appointed, qualified and acting disbursing officer for public
funds of the said United States civil government of the Philippine Islands, appropriated on account of said Provisional
Battalion and on account of the Louisiana Purchase Exposi-

CARRINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
208 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion at St. Louis," made a false voucher for the payment of
seven hundred and seventy pesos.
The plaintiff in error denies that he was a public official
within the meaning of the Philippine Penal Code, Art. 300,
or that, under the act of March 3, 1883, c. 134, 22 Stat. 567
(see Rev. Stat. §§ 1222, 1860), he could be, while he remained
an officer in the Army on the active list. The facts are as
follows: In October, 1903, the plaintiff in error wrote a letter
to the Executive Secretary of the Insular Government, suggesting that, as the Second Battalion of Philippine Scouts was
expected to take part in the Louisiana Purchase Exposition,
it would be well to allow the writer, with his scouts, to put up
a model administration building of native materials for his
use, at St. Louis, decorated with native arms, etc., and estimating that he could do this work for $3,000, gold. Governor Taft referred his letter to the Exposition Board, recommending the project, and the board accepted it. In November
the Civil Commission passed a resolution, authorizing the
transfer "to the credit of Major F. L. Carrington, 1st United
States Infantry, commanding the Provisional Battalion of
Philippine Scouts to be transported to St. Louis in 1904 in
connection with the Philippine, Exhibit," the sum of $3,000,
"to be used and accounted for by Major Carrington in the construction" of a model administration building. It was resolved
further that the disbursing officer of the Philippine Exposition
Board should deposit to the credit of Major Carrington the
further'sum of $500, with which to pay some of the expenses
of families of scouts allowed to accompany them to St. Louis,
and that, on the approval of the resolutions by certain officials,
the Civil Government might "designate Major Carrington as
disbursing officer to receive the funds meationed." The resolutions were approved, and Governor Taft in the same month
addressed a letter to "Major Frank de L. Carrington, 1st
U. S. Infantry, commanding Provisional Battalion. Philippine
Scouts," saying, "You are hereby designated to withdraw,
receive, expend,'and account for, the funds" above inntioned,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

"to be expended in the preparation and display of a Scout
Exhibit at the Louisiana Purchase Exposition as set forth in
said resolution." These are all tlie facts that are supposed
to constitute the plaintiff 'in error a public official within the .-.
Philippine Penal Code, although, it should be added, that in
signing the false document he added, after his name, "Maj. 1st
Infantry, D. 0.;" the last letters meaning, it may be presumed, Disbursing Officer.
At this time the plaintiff in error was an officer of the Army
on the active list, detached to command a battalion of Philippine scouts, admitted to be a part of the military establishment of the United States. Leaving names on one side, what
happened was that -.he received $3,500 from civil sources, to
be used by him in connection with his military command, in
the performance of duties incident to that command. On the
face of it the proposition is extravagant that the receipt of a
small sum to be spent and done with forthwith in this way
made *him an officer of the civil government, notwithstanding
the source from which it came, or the fact that he sent his
accounts to the same quarter. An office commonly requires
something more permanent than a single transitory act or
transaction to call it into being. The letter of Governor Taft
which designated Major Carrington to receive the fund says
nothing about appointing him a civil or any kind of officer,
nor did he qualify as one in any way. He was addressed by
Governor Taft and he acted in his military capacity and under
his military responsibility. He has been held to that responsibility by a court-martial. The only color for an additional
liability is in the words quoted from the resolution of the Civil
Commission, authorizing the Civil Governor to designate
Major Carrington as disbursing officer, words which the Governor wisely did not adopt, and in the fact that the plaintiff
in error gave himself that name, It is umnecessary to inquire!
*hether he could have'made himself a civil. officer if he -had
tried, in view of theact of Congress absolutely prohibiting it.
Act uf Mar~h 3-1888, c; 134; 22 Stat. 567. No one dreamed

CARRINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that he was attempting it, and if he could have succeeded at
the expense of his place in the Army under Rev. Stat. § 1222,
no one supposed that he had done so, but he continued in his
military command undisturbed.
We think it entirely plain, that the acceptance of the duty
of spending and accounting for this small fund did not amount
to holding a civil office within the statutes of the United States.
We see no sufficient reason to believe that the Philippine Penal
Code, Art. 300, purports or attempts to reach a case like that
of the plaintiff in error. The provision in Art. 401 that for
this purpose every one shall be considered a public official
who, . . . by popular election or appointment by competent authority, takes part in the exercise of public functions,
does not help Article 300. That also seems to contemplate
an office having some degree of permanence. But however
that may be, the plaintiff in error was performing no public
function of the. civil government of the Philippines; he was
performing military functions to which the civil government
contributed a little money. As a soldier he was not an official
of the Philippines but of the United States. If Philippine
legislation attempted to add to the immediate responsibilities
of the soldier in the course and performance of his duty under
the paramount authority from which that legislation derives its' right to be, we should have to' inquire whether we could
gather from any act of Congress the intention to permit what
might become the instrument of dangerous attacks upon its
power.. It is a wholly different question from that where a
soldier not in the performance of his duty commits an ordinary crime. But we do not understatid the Penal Code to
have the suggested scope.
Judgment reversed.
The, same judgment will be entered in Nos. .224 and 225,
which were to abide the result of this case.

