. OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

208 U. S.

ratioin by virtue of a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction all the parties being before it and given full opportunity
to be heard.. Such a judgment cannot be held to have violated
any right belonging to the club under the, contract or other
clause of the, Federal Constitution. Foster v. Kansas, 112
U. S. 201, 206; Kennard v. Louisiana,92 U, S. 480; Louisiana
Waterorks Co. v. Louisiana, above cited.
Judgment affirmed.

BASSING v. CADY.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND.
No. 426.

Argued January 8,1908.-Decided February 24, 1908.

On appeal or writ of error to this .'court,-papers or documents used in the
court below cannot in strictness be examined here unless by bill of exceptions or other proper mode they are made part of the record.
The mere arraignment and pleading to an indictment does not put the ac- cused in judicial jeopardy, nor does the second .surrender of the same
person by one State to another amount to putting Ithat person in second
jeopardy because* the -requisition of the demanding State is based on an
indictment for the same offense for which the accused hadbeen formerly
indicted and surrendered but for'which he had never been tried.
One charged with crime and who was in the place.where, and at the time
when, the crime was committed, and who. thereafter leaves the State, no
matter for what re.son,.is a fugitive from justice within the meaning of
the interstate rendition provisions of the Constitution, and of § 5278, Rev.
Stat., and this none the less if he leaves theState with the knowledge knd
without the objection of its authorities..

THE facts are stated in the opinion.,.

Mr, Edward D. Bassett for plain'tiff in error:
The plaintiff in error is not a fugitive from' justice within the
meaning of. Art. IV, § 2, Const. of.the U. S. and § 5278, Rev.
Stat. Dennison v.Kenthcky,.24 'How. 66; Robb. v.. Conolly,

BASSING v.' CADY.

208 u. a

Argument for Plaintiff *IEwo .

111 U. S.'624; Ex parte'Reggel, 114 U. S. 642; Roberts v. Reilly,
116 U. S. 80; Streep v. United States, 160 U:. S. 128'- Hyatt v.
'New York, 188 U. S..691; Munsej v. Clough,' 196 U. S. 364;
Pettibone v. Nichols,' 203 U..S. 192; Appleyard v.Massachusetts, 203. U. S. 222; Illinois v. Pease, 207 U. S. 100.
The plaintiff in error, is not a fugitive from justice as this
court has defined the term in the foregoing decisions.
He has afforded an opportunity to the State .of New York.
to prosecute him for his alleged offense, being returned on
former extradition proceedings, and has been'within the judisdiction of that State several times since the commission of his
alleged offense was known. In re Kingsbury, 106 Massachusetts, 223, 227.
'He has complied with the purpose and spirit of the Constitution" and statute, and his continued residence in Rhode Island
-should be protected from- action .on the part of the State of
New, York branding him as a fugitive' from' justice. Apple-.'
yard v.Massachusetts, supra; Illinois v. Pease, supra.
If a person can be extradited twice' for the same offense, he
can also, be extradited a hundred times for thq same alleged
offense. Each time he is put to great expense, humiliatien,
and deprived of his liberty, and certainly the provisions of the
constitution and statute referred to in this case .do not contem:
plate that a citizen of another State shall be harrassed and
persecuted 'by successive extrad'ition proceedings after he has..,
been returned th the demanding State oh the first ,request to
answer the chargesmade against him.
His delivery to the State of New York on the first extradition warrant 'gave the demanding Sta rightful "possession
of'his person, and it could lawfully subject -him to "criminal
process for.- the. offense charged. Streep v.. United States, 160
U.. S. '128;.Bruce'v. Rayner, 62'C. C. A. 501, 5,04.
And the State of New York could then have prosecuted him
for that-or any other offense it had against him, or acted toward
him as it saw fit.. Lascellea v. deorga,,l18 U. S.537.
The State of New.York, however, saw fit' to discharge the

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1907. •
Opinion of the Oourt.

208 U. S.

plaintiff in error, and thereby-he ceased to be a fugitive from
its justice for that particular offense.
Leaving the State of New York with express assent and
knowledge of its authorities negatives the fact that he is a
fugitive from justice. In re Todd (S. Dak., 1900), 81 N. W.
Rep. 637; Senator Patterson's case,: cited in Moore on Extradition, §569.
''Mr. J. Jerome,Hahn for defendant in error:
The law is clearly to.the effect' that the number of extraditions which may be issued is in the discretion of the executive,
the sole requirement for interstate extradition being' simply
that having committed a crime within a State the person whose
surrender is sought has left. the jurisdiction of the demanding
State and is found within the territory of another State when
it 'is sought to subject him to criminal process. 'Roberts v.
Reily, 116 U. S. 80; Appleyard v. Massachusetts, 203 U. S.'222;
Illinois v. Pease, 207 U. S.100; 2 Moore on- Extradition, 933;
In re White, 45 Fed..Rep. 239.
As to the third assignment of error, it raises no Federal question;' the question was not raised in 'the petition for the writ of
habeas corpusi or at the hearing thereon before the GoVernor
of Rhode Island, or the Superior Court and is without merit
in"
fact. The requisition fo'r extradition states that because
Bassing was a fugitive from justice, the Goveinor of New York
requested his extradition, which fact .was necessarily proven
to the Governor of Rhode Island and found'by him to be a fact
before he issued the warrant, which uncier no procedure known
to.counsel; need contain further findings of fact than are
the reina'set forth. The issuing of the warrant is in effect a
finding, that the authorities 'of' the demanding State have
proven the facts set forth in the requisition, and it is in the

usual form.

'

"

-

Mn. JAtscE HmmAN delivered the opinion of.the couft.,

There was somiedifference of opinion between counsel upon

.

BASSING v.. CADY.
'208 U. 8.

.

389,

Opinion of the Court.

the question whether certain papers, printed by the' defendant,.
constituted any part of the record which this court could.
examine upon the present writ of *rror. i While this is not an•
important matter in viev, of our conclusion as to the controlling
questions in the case it isappropriate to say that, on appeal
or writ of error to this court, papers or documents used at"the
hearing in the court, below cannot in s.tfictness be examined
here unless they are niade part of the record by. bill of exceptions or in some other proper, mode. For the' purposes of our
*decision we take the case to be substantially as the plaintiff
in.error insists thatitlis on the record. He cannot ask more.
The Governor of Rhode Island, on, the tenth day of July,
190.7, issued a warrant of arrest addressed to the Sheriff of
the County of Bristol, in that State, reciting that information
had been communicated to him by the Governor of New York
that Jacob Bassing (the present plaintiff in error) was charged
with the crime of.grand iareeny, first degree, committed in
New York, was a fugitive .from the justice: of the latter State,
'and was supposed to be. then in Rhode Island; and .that the
Governor of New York had transmitted to him a copy of an.
indictment,: warrant and 'other papers, certified by him to be
authentic, charging Bassing -with the -above crime, and demanded his delivery to the agent of New York according to
the Constitution, and laws of the United-States; The.'warrant
of, the Governor.'of Rhode Island commanded the arrest of
Bassing. and his delivery to the person designated by .the
Governor of New York to i'eceive and convey him to the latter
.State to, be there dealt with according.to law.'
Having been arrested under that warrant, and being in-the
custody of the Sheriff of Bristol County, Bassing sued out the
present writ of. habeas corpus .from the Superior Court of
Rhode Island.' The material part of that petition is in these
words: "Your petitioner further shows that he has been
extradited at a pribr tit.e,to wit, March 12; 1907, on requisition
of the Governor of the' State. of. New York for the same 9ense
as is alleged in the present indictment. Your petitioner

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court. -

208 U.S.

further shows that on April 15, A. D. 1907, he was discharged
from custody by the State of New York, to.which he had been
extradited, where he was held in custody for the same alleged
offense for which.he is now held for extradition,' and your petitioner offers to produce in court the warrant under which he is
now held, together with a copy of the indictment for the offense
on which he is now held, it being impossible to procure a copy
of said warrant on'the presentation of this petition on account
ofthe shortness of the time since said warrant has been issued,
and because said Sheriff of Bristol County threatens to immediately remove said Bassing out of the jurisdiction of this court.
Your petitioner further shows that his detention and imprisonment, as aforesaid, is unlawful, in this, to Wit: First. That the
warrant of the Governor of Rhode Island and the order for his
delivery to the agent of the State of New York were issued
without authority of law and contrary to the constitution and
laws of the State of RhOde Island, as well as contrary to the
Constitution and laws of the .United States [relating to fugitives
from justice], especially § 2, Art. IV, of the Constitution of the
United States, and §5278 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, in that your petitioner is not a fugitive from
justice. Wherefore he prays that he may be relieved of said
unlawful restraint and imprisonment, and that a writ of
habeas corpuz may issue in this behalf, so that your petitioner
-may be forthwith brought before 'this court to do, submit to
and receive what the law may direct."
The sheriff justified under the warrant issued by the. Governor of Rhode Island.
At the hearing of the case in the Rhode Island.court it appeared that the accused .was charged by indictment in one of
the courtsof New York with the crime of grand larceny, first
degree, committed on the sixth of February, 1907; and that
on the fourteenth of March of that year the Governor of New
York made his requisition on the Governor of Rhode Island,
in due form, for the' arrest of Bassing as a fugitive from justice.
That requisition was honored by the Governor of Rhode Island

BASSING v. CADY.
SU.S.

.

391

Opinion of the Court.

and Bassing was taken to-New York.. He was there arraigned
and pleaded to the indictment. After one or two continuances
the district attorney moved to dismiss the iidictment, stating
orally as a reason for his action (so Bassing testified in this
case), that he had not sufficient evidence to hold the accused.
The motion was sustained and Bassing returned to Rhode
Island without; so far as. the record shows, any objection on
the part of the New. York authorities. Shortly thereafter a
second indictment was found in. the New York court against
Bassing for the same offense as that charged in the first indictment, and this was made the basis of a second requisition
upon the Governor of Rhode Island on the fourteenth of June,
:1907. Upon that requisition the Governor of Rhode Island
issued the warrant of arrest of which Bassing complained'in
his present petition for a writ of habeas corpus.
The question arises on these facts whether the Governor of
Rhode Island was authorized by the Constitution and laws of
the United States to issue a'second warrant for the arrest of
Bassing and his delivery to the agent of New York, such warrant being based upon a second indictment for the same offense
as that charged in the former indictment. We have not been
referred to nor are we aware of any judicial decision covering
this precise question. -If the proceedings'in the New York
court, after the appearance there of the accused under the first
requisition by the Governor of that State, had so far progressed,
before the dismissal of the first indictment, as to put him in
legal jeopardy of his liberty, it might be-but upon that point
we forbear any expression of opinion-that the Governor of
Rhode Island could rightfully have declined to honor a requisition to meet a second indictment for the same offense. But
no such ae'is presented. The accused had, not been put in
jeopardy when the first indictment was dismissed. It may have
been. that the. dismissal was because the State was without
sufficient evidence at the time to hold the defendant; or there'
may. haye been other and P4iequate reasons for the course taken
by the State's attorney. His mere arraignment and pleading

2W2

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

0&U. s.

to the indictment did not put him in judicial jeopardy. 1
.. Wharton's American Cr. Law (6th ed.), 1868, 1§ 544,590j.and.
authorities cited under each section. Suffice it to say, that
when the second warrant of arrest.was issued by the Governor
of Rhode Island the accused had not been tried, nor put on
final trial, in New York,. nor placed in jeopardy there for the
offense with which -e was charged in*that State. We do not,
therefore, perceive any reason, based on the Constitution and
laws of the United States, why the Governor of Rhode Island
could not honor, as he did, the second riquisition of the Governor of. New York and issue-thereon a second warrant of
arrest. It is certain that no right secured to the alleged fugitive
by the Constitution or laws of the United States was thereby
violated.
The plaintiff in error insists, as one of the grounds of his
discharge, that he was not a fugitive from justice, Undoubtedly it was'competent for him to show that he. was not a
fugitive, but he did not establish that fact by evidence. Tlih
warrant of arrest issued by the Governor of Rhode Island es,tablished prima Jarie the lawfulness of his arrest, and, nothing
to the contrary appearing in proof, it was to be taken by the
court which heard this case that the accused was a fugitivefrom the justice of the State in which he stood charged by
indictment with crime. So far as the record shows it did not
appear by proof that the accused was not in New York at the
time the 6rime with which he was charged was committed.
If he was in New York at that time (and it must be assumed
upon the record that he was).and thereafter left New York,
no matter. for what reason or under what belief, he was a
fugitive from the justice of that State within the meaning of
the Constitution and laws of the United.States. These views
are in accord with the adjudged.'cases. Appleyard v. Massa,chusetts; 203 U. S. 222, and authorities cited; llinois ex rel.
McNizchols v. Pease, 207 U. S. 100, and authorities cited. He
was. none the less such a fugitive, within the meaning of the
Constitution and laws of the United States, because after the
..
,.

,'UNITED STATES v. BITTY.
208 U.S.

~93

S0abus.

dismissal of the first indictment he left New York and returned to Rhode Island with the' knowledge of or without
Objection by the New York authorities.

The judgment of the state court refusing the discharge of the
accused from custody must be affirmed.
It iso ordered

UNITED STATES v. BITTY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

E

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK,.
No. B03.

Submitted January 27, 1908.-Decided February 24, 1908.

It is within the power of Congress to determine the regulations and excep'tions under which this court shall exercise appellate jurisdiction in cases
other than those in which this court has original jurisdiction and to which
the judicial power of the United States extends; and the act of March 2,
1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, permitting the United States to prosecute
a writ of error directly from this court to the District or Circuit Courts in
criminal- cases in which-an indictment may be quashed or demurrer
thereto sustained where the decision is based on the invalidity or construction of the statute on which the indictment is based, is not unconstitutional because it authorizes the United States to bring the case directly
to this court and does not allow the accused so to do when a demurrer
to the indictment is overruled.
In construing an act of Congress prohibiting the importation of alien women
for
prostitution or other immoral purposes regard must be had to the views
commonly
entertained among the people of the United States as to what is
moral and immoral in the relations between man and woman ahd concubinage is generally regarded in this country as immoral.
While penal laws are to be.strictly construed they are not to be construed so
strictly as to defeat the obvious intent of the legislature.
While under the rule of eusdem genrios the words "or other immoral purpose" would only include a purpose of the same nature as the principal
subject to which they were added they do include purposes of the same.
nature, such as concubinage, when the principal subject is prostitution
and the importation of women therefor.
The prohibition in the alien .immigration act of February 20, 1907, c. 1134,
34 Stat. 898, against the.importa tion of alien women and girls for tlie purpose of prostitution or any other immoral purpose includes the importation of an alien woman or girtth live as a concubine with the person imporing her.

