OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

208 U. S.

DISCONTO GESELLSCHAFT v. UMBREIT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT. COURT OF MILWAUKEE COUNTY
(BRANCH NO. 1), STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 63. Argued December 10, 11. 1907 -Decided

February 24, 1908.

It is too late to raiss the Federal question on motion for rehearing in the
state court, unless that court entertains the motion and expressly passes
on the Federal ttuestion.
While aliens are ordinarily permitted to resort to our courts for redress of
wrongs and protection of rights, the removal of property to another
jurisdiction for adjustment of claims against it is a matter of comity and
not of absolute right, and, in the absence of treaty stipulations, it is
within the power of a State to determine its policy in regard thereto.
The refpsal by a State to exercise comity in such manner as would impair
the rights of local creditors by removing a fund to a foreign jurisdiction for
administration does not deprive a foreign creditor of his property without
due process of law or deny to him the equal protection of the law; and so
held as to a judgment of the highest court of Wisconsin holding the attachmient of a citizen of that State superior to an earlier attachment of
a foreign creditor.
While the treaty of 1828 with Prussia has been recognized as being still in
force by both the United States and the German Empire, there is nothing
therein undertaking to change the rule of national comity that permits a
country to first protect the rights of its own citizens in local property
before permitting it to be taken out of its jurisdiction for administration
in favor of creditors beyond its borders.
127 Wisconsin, 676, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. F. C. Winkler for plaintiff in error:
The Federal questions on both points were brought before
the Supreme Court of the State and claim made under them in
the argument for rehearing. The motion was denied and
opinion rendered expressly overruling the claim based on the
treaties and by necessary implication, also the claim based on
the Constitution of the United States.
The rulings upon them are therefore subject to review. MKay v. Kalyton, 204 U. S. 458; Leigh v. Green, 193 U. S.

DISCONTO GESELLSCHAFT v. UMBREIT.
208 U. S.

571

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

79; Columbia Water Power Co. v. Columbia Street Railway Co.,
172 U. S. 465.
The plaintiff's suit was brought under the statutes of Wisconsin. The defendant was in Wisconsin. The property -attached had been brought by him and placed on deposit in the
State of Wisconsin. No court in the world could exercise
jurisdiction either over his person or over his property except
the courts of Wisconsin. No statute debars an alien from
seeking justice in Wisconsin courts where the protection. of his
rights requires it.
The plaintiff is denied the benefit of the proceedings and of
its judgment because being a foreigner it has no rights in the
State of Wisconsin except such as "comity," which is "good
nature," will accord it. Even under the ruling of the state
court that the right of the plaintiff to pursue its absconding
debtor into this country and to invoke the latter's remedial
processes against him rests upon the comity, it is, 'however,
the comity of the sovereignty, not of the court. Wharton, Conflict of Laws, § la.
Conity cannot be given or withheld at will. Civilization
demands its exercise where justice requires it. It cannot be
denied, in whole or in part, except on clear, clean principles
of justice.
Under the treaty between the United States and the Kingdom of Prussia, made in 1828, if a proper and liberal interpretation be given thereto, the plaintiff in error is entitled to the
same standing in court as a citizen of the United States would
be in a like case. Public Treaties (Govt. Printing Office, 1875),
p. 656; Tucker v. Alexandrof i 183 U. S. 424, 437. The cases
cited by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, viz.: Eingartnerv.
Illinois Steel Co., 94 Wisconsin, 70; Gardner v. Thomas, 14
Johnson, 134; Johnson v. Dalton, 1Cowen, 543; DeWitt v.
Buchanan, 54 Barb. 31; Olsen v. Schierenberg, 3 Daly, 100;
Burdick v. Freeman, 120 N. Y. 421, can easily be distinguished from the .case at bar.
The state court erred in stating that plaintiff sues as the

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

208 U. S.

agent, of a foreign trustee in bankruptcy. That trustee has
and claims no rights to the bankrupt's property in Wisconsin.
Foreign law does not operate on property beyond its jurisdiction. Segnitz v. G. C. Banking & Trust Co., 117 Wisconsin;

171, 176.
The property in question was not transferred to the trustee
and that left its legal title in the debtor. The plaintiff being a
creditor brought suit on his own claim in his own right.
The circumstance that the creditor after' suit commenced
promised to turn over the proceeds he should recover o the
trustee for distribution does not impair his rights as a creditor.
The course of the plaintiff in no way "sets at naught" the
rule of our law that the trustee in bankruptcy does not obtain
title to property in Wisconsin by reason of the proceedings in
Germany. No claim is made on this score in the intervenor's
answer.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin deprives
the plaintiff of its property rights without due process of law,
in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
The judgment which the intervenor obtained, although in
the form of the statute, is in point of fact no better than an
ex parte affidavit. The defendant was to the intervenor's
knowledge a prisoner in Germany. The only notice given was
by publication of the summons in a Milwaukee paper. No
copy of the summons and complaint was ever mailed to the
defendant as required by §2640, Statutes of Wisconsin.
The defendant Terlinden, when the intervenor's suit Was
commenced against him, had not the slightest interest in the
property sought to be reached. All his interest had passed
to the plaintiff. The plaintiff was the only party adversely
interested to the intervenor. It had an adjudicated lien good
against all the world (except the claim of the intervenor).
An alien, too, is entitled to due process of law under the Constitution of the United States. In re Ah Fung, 3 Sawyer, 144;
Ah Kow v. Nunan, 5 Sawyer, 562; In re Ah Chung, 2 Fed. Rep.
733.

DISCONTO GESELLSCHAFT v. UMBREIT.
208 U. 8.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The judgment against Terlinden was, as against this plaintiff, absolutely without process of law. It adjudicated nothing.
The plaintiff wif not a party therein, nor was it notified, and
it had no opportunity to defend against it.
Mr. Joseph B. Doe' for defendant in error:
Domestic creditors will be protected to the extent of not
allowing the property or •funds of a non-resident debtor to be
withdrawn from the State before domestic creditors have been
paid.. Every country will first- protect its own citizens.. CatSlin v. Silver Plate Co.; 123 Indiana, 477;.Chaey v. Fourth Nat:
Bank, 71 Maine, 414,524; Bagby v. Railway Co.,. 86 Pa. St.
291; Lycoming Fire Ins. C6:'v. Wright, 55 Vermont, 526; Thurston v. Rosenfelt, 42 Missouri, 474; Willitts v. Waite, 25 N. Y.
577.
Citizens and residents of the country where insolvency pro*
ceedings have been instituted are bound by such proceedings
and cannot pursue the property of the insolvent debtor in
another country. Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. .107; LinVule v. Hadden, 88 Maryland, 594;.Chaley v. FourthNat. Bank,
supra; Einer v. Beste, 32 Missouri, 240; Long v. Girdwood, 150
Pa. .St..413; Bacon v.Home, 123 Pa. St. 452.
A creditor, by proving his claim in bankruptcy .or any insolvency proceedings, submits to the jurisdiction of the court
in which the proceeding is pending and cannot pursue his
remedy elsewhere. Clay v. Smith, 3 Peters, 411; Cooke v.
Coyle, 113 Massachusetts, 252; Ormsby v. Dearborn, 116 Massa" chusetts, 386; Batchelder v. Batchelder, 77 N. H. 31; Wilson v.
Capuro, 41 California, 545; Wood v. Hazen, 10 Hun, 362.
Where both parties, plaintiff and defendant, are residents
of a foreign State, the plaintiff cannot come into our country
and obtain an advantage by our law Which he could not obtain
by his own.
If he seeks to nullify the law of his own State and asks our
courts to aid him in so doing, he cannot have such assistance, if
for no other reason than that it is forbidden by public policy

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

and the comity which exists between states and nations, which
comity wili always be enforced when it does not conflict with
the rights of domestic citizens.. Bacon v. Home, supra; In
re Waite, 99 N. Y. 433; Bagby v. Railway Co., supra.
Citizens of a foreign State or country will not be aided by
the courts of this country to obtain, by garnishment, a preference of their claim against a foreign debtor, in disregard of
proceedings in their own country for the sequestration of the
debtor's estatp and the appoirtment of a trustee thereof in
bankruptcy. Long v. Girdwood, supra.
It is the uniform rule and doctrine of all courts that the
principles of comity do not require that courts confer powers
upon a foreign receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or permit him
to bring and maintain actions in this State that interfere with
and impair the rights of domestic creditors. Humphreys v.
Hopkins, 81 California, 551; Ward v. Pac. Mulual Lile Ins. Co.,
135 California, 235; Hunt v. Columbian Ins. Co., 55 Maine, 290;
Pierce v. O'Brien, 129 Massachusetts, 314; Rogers v. Riley, 80
Fed. Rep. 759; Catlin v. Wilcox Silver Plate Co., 123 Indiana,
477.
MR. JusTicu DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The Disconto Gesellschaft, a banking corporation of Berlin,
Germany, began an action in the Circuit Court of Milwaukee
County, Wisconsin, on August 17, 1901, against Gerhard Terlinden and at the same time garnisheed the First National
Bank of Milwaukee. The bank appeared and admitted an
indebtedness to Terlinden of $6,420. The defendant in error
Umbreit intervened and filed an answer, and later an amended
answer.
A reply was filed, taking issue upon certain allegations of the
answer, and a trial was had in the Circuit Court of Milwaukee
County, in which the court found the following facts:
"That on the 17th day of August, 1901, the above-named
plaintiff, the Disconto Geaellschaft, commenced an action in

DISCONTO GESELLSCHAFT v. UMBREIT.
06 U. S.

.575

Opinion of the Court..

this court against the above-named defendant, Gerhard Terlinden, for the recovery of damages sustained by the tort of
.the said defendant, committed in the month of May, 1901;
that said defendant appeared'in 1said action by A. C. Umbreit,
his attorney, on August 19,1901, and answered .the plaintiff's
complaint.; that. thereafter such proceedings were had in.
said
action that judgment was duly. given on F6briary 19, 1904,.
in favor of said plaintiff, Disconto Gesellschaft, and against
said defendant, Terlindefi, for $94,145.11 damages and costs;
that $85,371.49, with interest from March 26, 1904, is now due.
and unpaid thereon; that at the time of.the commencement of
said action, to wit, on August 17, 1901, process in garnishment
was served on the above-named garnishee, First National Bank
of Milwaukee, as garnishee oT the defendant Terlinden
"That on August 9, 1901,'and on August 14, 1901, a person
giving his name. as Theodore Grafe deposited in said First
National Bank of Milwaukee the equivalent of German money
aggregating $6,420.00 to his credit upon account; that said sum
has remained in said bank ever since, and at the date hereof
with interest accrued thereon amounted to $6,969.47.
"That the defendant Gerhard Terlinden arid said Theodore
Grafe, mentioned in th6 . findipg, are identical and the same
persom
"That the interpleaded defendant, Augustus C. Urnbreit, on
March 21, 1904, commenced an action in this court against the
defendant Terlinden for recovery for services rendered between
August'16, 1901, and February 1,'1903; that no personal service of the summons therein was had on the said defendant;
that said summons was served by publication only and without the mailing of a copy of the summons and of the complaint
•to said defendant; that said defendant did not appear therein;
that on June 11, 1904, judgment was given in said action by
default in favor of said Augustus C. Umbreit and against said
defendant Terlindfen for $7,500 damages, no part whereof has
been paid; that at the time of the commencement of said action process of garnishment was served, to wit, on March 22,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

1904, on the garnishee, First National Bank of Milwaukee, as
garnishee of said defendant Terlinden.
"That the defendant Terlinden at all the times set forth in
finding number one was and still is a resident of Germany;
that about July 1,1901, he absconded from Germany and came
to the State of Wisconsin and assumed the name of Theodore
Grafe; that on August 16, .1901, he was apprehended as a
fugitive from justice upon extradition proceedings duly instituted against him, and was thereupon extradited to Germany.
"That the above-named plaintiff, The Disconto Gesellschaft,
at all the times set forth in the findings was, ever since has been
and still i8 a foreign corporation, to wit, of Germany, and
during all said time had its principal place of business in Berlin, Germany; that the above-named defendant, Augustus C.
Umbreit, during all said timec was and still is a resident of the
State of Wisconsin.
"That on or about the 27th day of July, 1901, proceedings
in bankruptcy were instituted in Germany against said defendant Terlinden, and Paul Hecking appointed trustee of his
estate in such proceedings on said date; that thereafter, and
on or after August 21, 1901, the above-named plaintiff, The
Disconto Gesellschaft, was appointed a member of the committee of creditors of the defendant Terlinden's personal estate, and accepted such appointment; and that the abovenamed plaintiff, The Disconto Gesellschaft, presented its claim
to said trustee in said bankruptcy proceedings; that said claim
had not been allowed by. said. trustee in January, 1902, and
there is no evidence that it has since been allowed; that nothing.
'has been paid upoi' said.claim; that said claim so presented a".d
submitted is the salic claim upon which action was brought
by the plaintiff in this court and .judgment given, as set forth
in finding No. 1; that said. action was instituted by said plaintiff, The Disconto Gesellschaft, through the German consul in
Chicago; and that the steps sd taken. by the plaintiff, The Disconto Gesellschaft, had the consent and approval of Dr. Paul
Heeking as trustee in bankruptcy, so appointed in the bank-

DISCONTO GESELLSCHAFT v. UMBREIT.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ruptcy proceedings in Germany, and that after the commencement of the same the plaintiff, The Disconto Gesellschaft,
agreed with said trustee that the moneys it should recover in
said action should form part of the said estate in bankruptcy
and be handed over to said trustee; that, among other provisions, the German bankrupt act contained the following:'See. 14, Pending the bankruptcy proceedings, neither the.
assets nor any other property of the bankrupt are subject to
attachment or execution in favor of individual creditors.'"
Upon the facts thus found the Circuit Court rendered a judgment giving priority to the levy of the Disconto Gesellschaft
for the satisfaction of its judgment out of the fund attached in
the hands of the bank. Umbreit then appealed to the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin. That court reversed the judgment of the
Circuit Court, and directed judgment in favor of Umbreit, that
he.recover the sum garnisheed in the bank. 127 Wisconsin, 651.
Thereafter a remittitur was filed in the Circuit Court of Milwaukpo County and a final judgment rendered in pursuance
of th direction of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin. This writ
of error is prosecuted to reverse that judgment. At the same
time a decree in an equity suit, involving a fund in another
bank, was reversed and remanded to the Circuit Court. This
case had been heard, by consent, with the attachment suit.
With it we are not concerned in this proceeding.
No allegation of Federal rights appeared in the case until
the application for rehearing. In this application it was alleged
that the effect of the proceedings in the state court was to deprive the plaintiff in error of its property without due process
of law, contrary to the Fourteenth' Amendment, and to deprive it of certain rights and privileges guaranteed -to it by
treaty between the Kingdom of Prussia and the United States.
rhe Supreme Court of Wisconsin, in passing upon the petition
for rehearing and denying the same, dealt only with the alleged invasion of treaty rights, overruling the contention of
the plaintiff in error. '127 Wisconsin, 676. It is well settled in
this court that it is too late to raise Federal questions.reviewVOL. ccviii-37

OCTOBER TERM, 107.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

able here by motions for rehearing in the state court. Pim v.
St. Louis, 165 U. S. 273; Fullerton v. Texas, 196 U. S. 192;
McMUllen v. Ferrum,Mining Company, 197 U. S. 343, 347;
French v. Taylor, 199 U. S. 274, 278. An exception to this
rule is found in cases where the Supreme Court of the State
entertains the motion and expressly passes upon the Federal
question. Mallett v. North Carolina, 181 U. S. 589; Leigh v.
Green, 193 U. S. 79.
* Conceding that this record sufficiently shows that
the Supreme Court heard and passed upon the Federal questions
made .upon the motion for rehearing, we will proceed briefly
to consider them.
The suit-brought by the Disconto Gesellschaft in attachment
had for its object to subject the fund in the bank in Milwaukee
to the payment of its claim against Terlinden. The plaintiff was
a German corporation and Terlinden was a German subject.
Umbreit, the intervenor, was a citizen and resident of Wisconsin. The Supreme Court of Wisconsin adjudged that the fund
attached. could not be subjected to the payment of the indebtedness due the foreign corporation as against the claim
asserted- to the fund by one of its own citizens, although that
claim arose after the attachment by the foreign creditor; and,
further, that the fact that the effect of judgment in favor of
the foreign corporation would be, under the facts found, to
remove the fund to a foreign country, there to be administered
*in favor of foreign creditors, was against the public policy of
Wisconsin, which forbade such discrimination as against a
citizen of that State.
Alien citizens, by the policy and practice of the courts of
this country, are ordinarily permitted to resort to the courts
for the redress of wrongs and the protection of their rights.
4 Moore, International Law Digest, § 536, p. 7; Wharton on
Conflict of Laws, § 17.
But what property may be removed from a State and subjected to the claims of creditors of other States, is a matter of
comity between. nations and states and not a matter of abso-

DISCONTO GESELLSCHAFT r.'UMBREIT.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lute right in favor of creditors of another sovereignty, when
citize s of the local state or country are asserting rights against
property within the local jurisdiction.
"'Comity,' in the legal sense," says Mr. Justice Gray, speak-.
ing for this court in Hilton v. Guyot, 159 U. S. 113, 163, "is
neither a matter of absolute obligation on the one hand nor
of mere courtesy and good will upon the other. But it is the.
recognition which one nation allows in its territory to the
legislative, executive or judicial acts of another nation, having
due regard both to international duty and convenience, and
to the rights of its own citizens or of other persons who are
under the protection of its laws."
In the elaborate examination of the subject in that case
many cases are cited and the writings of leading authors -on
the subject extensively quoted as to the nature, obligation and
extent of comity between nations and states. The result of
the discussion shows that how far foreign creditors Will be protected and their rights- enforced depends upon the circumstances of each case,, and that all civilized nations have recognized and enforced the doctrine that international comity does
not require the enforcement of judgments in such wise as to
prejudice the rights of local creditors and the superior claims
of such creditors to. assert and enforce demands against property within the local jurisdiction. Such recognition is not inconsistent with that moral duty to respect the rights of foreign
citizens which .inheres in the law of nations. Speaking of the
doctrine of comity, Mr. Justice Story says: "Every nation must
be the final judge for itself, not only of the nature and extent
of the duty, but of the occasions on which its. exercise may be
justly demanded." Story on Conflict of Laws, § 33.
The doctrine of comity has been the subject of frequent discussio.n in the courts of this country when it has been sought
to assert rights accruing under assignments for the benefit of
creditors in other'States as against the demands of local creditors, byattachment or otherwise in the State where the property
is situated. The cases were reviewed by Mr. Justice Brown,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

delivering the opinion of the court in Security Trust Company v.
Dodd, Mead & Co., 173 U. S. 624, and the conclusion reached
that voluntary assignments for the benefit of creditors should
be given force in other States as to property therein situate,
except so far as they come in conflict with the rights of local
creditors, or with the public policy of the State in which it is
sought to be enforced; and, as was said by Mr. Justice McLean
in Oakey v. Bennett, 11 How. 33, 44, "national comity does not
require any government to. give .effect to such assignment [for
the benefit of creditors] when it shall impair the remedies or
lessen the securities of its own citizens."
There being, then, no provision of positive law requiring the
recognition of the right of the plaintiff in error to appropriate
property in the State of Wisconsin and subject it to distribution for the benefit of foreign creditors as against the demands
of local creditors, how far the public policy of the State permitted such recognition was a matter for the State to determine for itself. .In determining that the policy of Wisconsin
would not permit the property to be thus appropriated to the
)enefit of alien creditors as against the demands of the citizens
of the State, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin has done no more
than has been frequently done by nations and states in refusing to exercise the doctrine of comity in such wise as to impair the right of local creditors to subject local property to
their just claims. We fail to perceive how this application of
a well known rule can be said to deprive the plaintiff, in error
of its property without due process of law.
Upin the motion for rehearing the plaintiff in error called
attention -to two alleged treaty provisions between the United States and the Kingdom of Prussia, the first from the treaty
of 1828, and the second from the treaty of 1799, As to the
last mentioned treaty the following provision was referred to:
"Each party shall endeavor by all the means in their power

to protect and defend all vessels and other effects belonging
to the citizens or subjects of the other, which shall be within
the extent of their jurisdiction by sea or by land."

DISCONTO GESELLSCHAFT v. UMBREIT.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The treaty of 1799 expired by its own terms on June 2, 1810,
and the provision relied upon is not set forth in so much of
the treaty as was revived by article 12 of the treaty of May 1,
1828. See Compilation of Treaties in Force, 1904, prepared
under resolution of the Senate, pp. 638 et seq. If this provision
of the treaty of •1799 were in force we are unable to see that it
.has any bearing upon the present case.
Article one of the treaty of 1828 between the Kingdom of
Prussia and the United States is as follows:
"There shall be between the territories of the high contracting parties a reciprocal liberty of commerce and navigation.
The inhabitants of their respective states shall mutually have
liberty to enter the ports, places and rivers of the territories of
each party wherever foreign commerce is permitted. They
shall be at liberty to sojourn and reside in all parts whatsoever
of said territories, in order to attend to their affairs; and they
shall enjoy, to that effect, the same security and protection as
natives of the country wherein they'reside, on condition of their
submitting to the laws and ordinances there prevailing."
This treaty is printed as one of the treaties in force
ih the
compilation of 1904, p. 643, and has undoubtedly been recognized by the two governments as still in force since the formation of the German Empire. See Terlinden v. Ames, 184 U. S.
270; Foreign Relations of 1883, p. 369; Foreign Relations of
1885, pp. 404, 443, 444; Foreign Relations of 1887, p. 370;
Foreign Relations of 1895, part one, 539.
Assuming, then, that this treaty is still in force between the
United States and the German Empire,*and conceding the rule
that treaties should be liberally interpreted with a view to
protecting the citizens of the respective countries .inrights
thereby secured, is there anything in thisarticle which required
any different decision in the Supreme Court of Wisconsin
than that given? The inhabitants of the respective countries
are to be at liberty to sojourn and reside in all parts whatsoever
of said territories in order to attend to their affairs, and they
ehall enjoy, to that effect, the same security and protection as

582

.OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. B.

the natives of the country wherein they reside, upon submission
to the laws and ordinances there prevailing. It requires very
great ingenuity to perceive anything in this treaty provision
applicable to the present case. lt is said to be found in the
right of citizens of Prussia to attend to their affairs in. this
country. The treaty provides that for that- purpose they are
to have. the same security and protection as natives in the
eduntry wherein they reside. Even between States of the.
American Union, as shown in the opinion of Mr. Justice Brown
in Security Trust Co. v. Dodd, Mead.& Co., 173 U. S.,supra, it
has been the constant practice not to recognize assinments for
the benefit of creditors outside. the State, where the same
came in conflict with the rights of domestic creditors seeking
to recover their debts against local property. This is the doctrine in force as against natives of the country residing in other
states, and it is this doctrine which has been a:pped by the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin to foreign creditors residing in
Germany. In short, there is nothing in this treaty undertaking to change tne well-recognized .rule between states and
nations which permits a country to first protect the rights of
its own citizens in local property before permitting it to
be taken out of the jurisdiction for administration in favor of
those residing beyond their borders.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Milwaukee County
entered upon the remittitur from the Supreme Court of Wisconsin is

Affinmed.

