OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

BLUTHENTHAL v. JONES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 94.

Submitted December 18. 1907.-7Decided January 6. 1908.

Courts are not bound to search the records of other courts and give effect
to their judgments, and one who relies upon a former adjudication in
another court must properly present it to the court in which he seeks
to enforce it.
While an adjudication in' bankruptcy, refusing. a discharge, finally determines for. all time and in all courts, as between the parties and their
privies, the facts upon which the refusal is based, it must be proved in
a second proceeding brought by the bankrupt in another district, and
of which the creditor has notice, in order to bar the bankrupt's discharge
therefrom, if the debt is provable under the statute as amended at the
time of the second proceeding although it may not have been such under
the statute at the time of the first proceeding.

THE facts, which involve the effect of a discharge under the
bankruptcy -act of 1898 as amended by the act of February 5,
1903, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Benjamin Z. Phillips and Mr. John M. Slaton 'for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Solon G. Wilson for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Florida. The plaintiffs in error -were judgment creditors of
Miles C. Jones, the intestate of the, defendant in error. The
creditors sought to enforce the judgment by a levy of execution. The question in -the case is whether Jones was dis-.
charged from the debt by a discharge in bankruptcy granted
to him on November 7, 1903, by the District Court for the
Southern Districtof Florida, on proceedings which were begun

BLUTHENTHAL v. JONES.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

on August 3, 1903. The debt was one provable in the bankruptcy proceeding and, it is conceded, would be barred by
the discharge were it not that there had been a prior proceeding in bankruptcy in another District Court, which, it is bontended' had the effect of exempting the debt from the operation of the discharge., In the year 1900 Jones filed his petition
in bankruptcy in the District Court for the Southern District
of Georgia. Bluthenthal & Bickart, the plaintiffs in error,
objected to the discharge in that proceeding, and it was refused on December 3, 1900. Bluthenthal & Bickart, at the
time of the first proceeding, were creditors of Jones in respect
of what may be assumed,. for the purposes of. this case, to be
the same indebtedness now in question. The ground of the
refusal does not appear. It-may be assumed to have, been,
however, one of the two grounds specified in ยง 14 of the bankruptcy act before it was amended by the act of February 5,
1903; that is to say, either that the bankrupt has committed
an offense punishable by imprisonment or, with fraudulent
intent and in contemplation of bankruptcy, destroyed, concealed or failed to keep books of accounts: Though Bluthenthal
& Bickart were notified of the proceedings on the second petition in bankruptcy and their debt was scheduled, they did
not prove their claim or participate in any way in those proceedings. They now claim that their debt was not affected
by the discharge on account of the adjudication in the previous
proceedings.
Section 1 of the bankruptcy act defines a discharge as "the
release of a bankrupt from all -of his debts which are provable
in bankruptcy, except such as are excepted by this act."
Section 14 of the amended act, which was applicable to the
second proceedings, provides that after due hearing the court
shall discharge the bankrupt, unless he has committed one of
the six acts specified in that section. Section 17 of the amended
act provides that, a discharge in bankruptcy shall release a
.bankrupt from all of his provable debts, with four. specified
exceptions, which do not cover this case. The discharge apVOL. "coV111-5

QCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

pears to have been regularly granted, and as the debt due to
Bluthenthal & Bickart is not one of the debts which, by the
terms of the statute, are excepted from its operation, on the
face of the statu e the bankrupt was discharged from the debt
due to them. There is no reason shown in this record why
the discharge did not have the effect which it purported to
have. Undoubtedly, as in all other judicial proceedings, an
adjudication refusing a discharge in bankruptcy, finally determines, for all time and in all courts, as between those parties
or privies to it, the facts upon which the refusal was based.
But courts are-not bound to search the records of other courts
and give effect to their judgments. If there has been a conclusive adjudication of a subject in some other court, it is the
duty of him who relies upon it to plead it or in some manner
bring it to the attention of the court in which it is sought to
be enforced. Plaintiffs in error failed to do this. When an
application was made by the bankrupt in the District Court
for the Southern District of Florida, the judge of that court
was, by the terms of the statute, bound to grant it, unless upon
investigation it appeared that the bankrupt had committed
one of the six offenses which are specified in ยง 14 of the bankruptcy act as amended. An objecting creditor might have
proved upon that application that the bankrupt had committed one of the acts which barred his discharge, either by
-the production of evidence or by showing that in a previous
bankruptcy proceeding it had been conclusively adjudicated,
as between him and the bankrupt, that the bankrupt had committed one of such offenses. If that adjudication had been
proved it would have taken the place of other evidence and
have been final upon the parties to it. But nothing of this
kind took place. Bluthenthal & Bickart intentionally remained away from the court and allowed the discharge to be
granted without objection.
Since the debt due to. the plaintiffs in error was a debt
provable in the proceedings before the District Court of Florida .
and was not one of the debts exempted by the statute from

PROSSER v. FINN.
208 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the operation of the discharge, it.was barred by that discharge.
The Supreme Court of the State of Florida so held, and its
judgment must be

Affirmed.

PROSSER v. FINN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 64. Submhitted Decermber 4. 1907.-D cided January 13. 1908.

If an entryman's entry is good when made and the Land Department,
by error of law, adjudges the land to belong to another, a court of equity
will convert the latter into a trustee for the former and compel him to
convey the legal title.
Continued occupation of public land by one not entitled to enter after the
disability has been removed is not equivalent to a new entry. The entryman's rights are determined by the validity of the original entry when
made.
An erroneous interpretation of a statute by the Commissioner of the Department to which it applies, does not confer any legal rights on one
acting in conformity with such interpretation, in opposition to the ex.press terms of the statute.
Congress having said without qualification, by ยง 452, Rev. Stat., that
employds in the General Land Office shall not, while in the service of
that office, purchase, or become interested directly or indirectly in the
purchase of, public lands, this prohibition applies to special agents of
that office and renders an entry made by a special agent under the Timber
Culture Act void, leaving the land open to entry, notwithstanding that
such agent made the same ,in
good faith when there was a ruling of the
Commissioner that 1 452. did riot apply. to Ibpecial agents, and that he
complied with the requirements of the act and continued in occupation.
after he had ceased to be a special agent.'
41 Washington, 604, affirmed.

FINN, the defendant in error, holds a patent from the United
States for certain lands in Yakima County, State of Wash-

ington, for which Prosser, the plaintiff in error, had previously
made an entry under what. is known. as the timber-culture
statutes.

