OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Counsel for Parties.

208 U. S.

Fourteenth Amendment. The judgment below must therefore! be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

SOUTHERN PINE LUMBER COMPANY v. WARD.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE

TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 82.' Submitted December 17, 1907.-Decided January 20, 1908.

Although the record was not docketed until more than thirty days after
the appeal was allowed, as it was accomplished soon afterwards and
meanwhile no motion was made to docket and dismiss under Rule 9,
a motion subsequently made was denied.
Jurisdiction of this court attaches upon allowance of the appeal and. prociedings are to be taken here to bring in the representative of an appellee
who (lies after'the acceptance of service of citation.
An appellee, who has not himself appealed, cannot .be'.heard in this court
to assail the judgment below.
Nat. Live Stock Bank v. First Nat. Bank, 203 U. S. 296, 305, followed, as to
when jurisdiction of this court to review judgments of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Olilahoma is by appeal and not by writ of error.
HalseUt v. Renfrnw, 202 U. S. 287, followed, as to when this. court, in reviewing a judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Oklahoma,
is confined to determining whether that court erred in holding that there
was evidence tending to support the findings made by the trial court
in a case submitted to it by stipulation, without a jury, and whether
*such findings sustained the judgment.
In this case this court holds that the Supreme Court of the Territory did
not err in finding that there was evidence to support the finaings made
by the trial couirt and that those findings sustained the judgment.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Arthur A. Birhey and Mr. Henry F, Woodard for plaintiffs in error and appellants.

Mr. John C. Moore, Mr. D. W. Buckner and Mr. George W.
Buckner, for defendants in error and appellees.

SOUTHERN PINE CQ. v. WARD.
208 U.'S.

127

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.
Not unmindful that upon this record we.are bound by the
findings of fact below made and are confined to -determining
whether the facts as found sustain the judgment, if there is
evidence supporting the findings, and, without departing from
that rule, we at' the outset refer, in chronological order, to some
facts which are alleged in the pleadings, which'are either directly or by necessary implication established by the findings,
and as to which there can be no dispute whatever. We do
this in order, if possible, to dispel the obscurity resulting from
the prolixity of the pleadings, the unnecessary volume and
confusion of the record, and the want of accuracy manifested
by some of the assignments 6f error relied upon.
Prior to June, 1891, two partnerships were located in Texas
-one," Grigsby Brothers; the other, the Union Mills Lumber
Company, sometimes called the Union Lumber Mills Company. The first (Grigsby Brothers) was composed of G. M. D.
Grigsby and D: J. Grigsby; the second (Union Mills Lumber
Company) of the two Grigsbys owning four-fifths interest and
T. L.L. Temple, one-fifth. At the' same time there was located
in Arkansas a firm known as the Southern Pine Lumber Company, composed. of T. L. L. Temple and Benjamin Whitaker.
Prior to June, 1891, D. J. and G. M. D. Grigsby became the
recorded owners of the following real estate situated -in the
city of Oklahoma and in the town of Guthrie, Oklahoma Territory, viz: 1st, an undivided four-fifths interest in five lots in
block 60; Oklahoma. City; 2d, an undivided four-fifths interest
in one lot, in block 54 of the town of Guthrie proper; an undivided' four-fifths interest in and to an undivided one-half
interest in block 43 in the town of Guthrie, and a like undivided
four-fifths interest in a one-half interest in two lots in block 43
and one lot in block 51, East Guthrie. A like one-fifth undivided interest in the same lots was simultaneously acquired
and recorded in the name of T. L. L. Temple. In June, 1891,
the National Bank of Jefferson, in Jefferson, Texas, discounted

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

for Grigsby Brothers a note of that firm for $5,000.00. The
note was dated June 11, 1891; matured in ninety days; bore
twelve per cent interest from maturity, and stipulated for a
ten per cent attorney's fee in case of suit to collect. This note
was secured by a deed of. trust embracing the undivided interest of the Grigsbys in the lots above referred to. E. F.
Pentecost, the trustee named in the deed, was empowered, in
case of default in payment of the debt to the bank, to sell and
'apply the proceeds to the payment of the note. This deed was
duly recorded in Oklahoma Territory. In August, 1891, the
American Exchange Bank of St. Louis discounted for T. L. L.
Temple anote of the Union Mills Lumber Company, drawn
for it by D. J. Grigsby. This note was for $884.90, payable in
ninety days; bore twelve per cent interest from maturity, and
contained a ten per cent attorney's fee clause. It was indorsed
. ,by T. L. L. Temple individually and by the Southern Pine
Lumber Company. This note not having been paid at maturity, the American Exchange Bank of St. Louis, in November, 1891, sued on the note in. a state court at Dallas, Texas.
The defendants were the two Grigsbys and Temple as partners
in the Union Mills Lumber Company, the maker of the note,
Temple and Whitaker as partners in the Southern Pine Luml er Compabny, the indorsers, and Temple individually because
of his personal indorsement. Judgment was entered against
all the defendants, as members of the-two firms and individually, for $1,022.38, the principal, interest, and attorneys' fees.
An execution was returned in February, 1892, satisfied "by
collecting thie full amount of principal and costs and interest
of this execution from T. L. L. Temple." In September, 1892,
a corporation called the Southern Pine Lumber Company was
organized under the laws of Arkansas at Texarkana in that
State. T. L. L. Temple was one of the incorporators and subscribed to 997 out of a total of 1,000 shares, and he became.
the president of the company. In October, 1893, at Texarkana,
Texas, a corporation called the Southern Pine Lumber Company was organized under the laws of Texas. Temple was an

SOUTHERN PINE CO. v. WARD.
208 U. S.

12.9

Opinion of the Court.

incorporator and became its president. In November, 1894,
in the District Court for Logan County Oklahoma Territory,
a suit was commenced in the name of the American Exchange
Bank of St. Louis against T. L. L. Temple and Benjamin
Whitaker as partners in the Southern Pine Lumber Company;
the Southern Pine Lumber Company, the Arkansas corporation, D. J. and G. M. D. Grigsby and T. L. L. Temple as partners
of the Union Mills Lumber Company. The petition counted
upon two causes of action: first, the judgment Which had been
rendered in the Texas state court at Dallas'as if that judgment was still due the bank and had not been satisfied, and
second, the sum of $294.56, which was an open account alleged
to be due by the Union Mills Lumber Company and the partners thereof, the two Grigshys and Temple, to the partnership
known as the Southern Pine Lumber Company,' composed of
Temple and Whitaker. This ojen account, it was alleged, had
been transferred by the partnership in 1893 to the Southern
Pine Lumber Company, a corporation, which latter, it was
'averred, had transferred the account to the American Exchange
* Bank. The defendants, being all non-residents of Oklahoma,
were summoned after affidavit by publication and upon affidavit attachments .were issued. The undivided interest of the
Grigsbys aiid Temple in-the lots in Oklahoma and Gutlirie
were attached. Ultimately a judgment was reddered in favor
of the American Exchange Bank and against the defendants for
the amount of the Texas judgment plus the open account sued
upon, with interest and costs. The liens of the attachments
were recognized, and under execution the interest' -of the
Grigsbys and Temple in the lots .inOklahoma and Guthrie
were sold and bought in by "the Southern, Pine Lutnber Company, &corporation," .for'a sum less than the judgment debt.
In the meanwhile the five thousand dollar note remained unpaid in the :hands of the National Bank of Jefferson, the note
having been. extende4'from time to time. In 1896 that bank
failed, and the note and trust deed were among the assets of
the bank in the hands of the receiver appointed by the Comp L
voL cwOV'u-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

troller of the Currency. In December, 1898, with the approval
of the Comptroller, sanctioned by an order of the United States
District Court, there was paid the receiver of the bank in settlement of the rights of the bank, $2,000, and the receiver at the
time of this payment by a writing assigned and transferred in
blank all the right, title and interest of the bank in and to the
note and the trust deed securing the payment of the same.
The $2,000 was paid by means of a check of a corporation
known as the Grigsby Construction Company. With these
undisputed facts in hand we now come more. immediatel, to
state the case.
This suit was commenced in May, 1900, by a petition filed
on behalf of.W. B..Ward in the District Court of Logan County,
Oklahoma, alleging himself to.be the owner of the five thousand
dollar note originally held by the Nationa "ank of Jefferson..
A decree for the sum of the note, principal, interest and attorney's fees, and for the foreclosure of the trust deed, was
prayed. It was alleged that although the note had been renewed from time to time, but was then past due, Pentecost,
the trustee, had declined to act, and therefore he was made a
defendant. It wis, moreover, alleged that certain persons,
who were named, asserted title to the property embraced by
the trust deed in virtue of an alleged purchase made under
an execution issued to enforce a judgment. rendered in favor
-of the American Exchange Bank, and that said claim 'was a
-cloud upon the title to the. property embraced by the trust
deed, which the plaintiff wished to have removed; that all the
proceedings in the attachment suit were without effect upon
the rights of the holder of the note, because neither the trustee
nor the-National Bank of Jefferson were made parties to that
suit, although the trustee was at the time when the suit was
brought a resident of Oklahoma and the trust deed was there
duly of record... It was, moreover,,. alleged that the judgment
.and sale in the attachment suit were void,, because no actual
or even constructive notice had been given to the defendants
in the suit, and. that the purchaser at the sale had knowledge

SOUTHERN PINE CO. v. WARD.
208 U. S.

131

Opinion of the Court.

of the trust deed, of the failure to.make the-trustee a party
and of the absence of notice, actual or constructive, to the
defendants in the attachment suit. A judgment was prayed
decreeing the proceedings in the attachment suit and the sale
made- therein to be void and for an enforcement of the trust
deed by a sale. of the property to which that deed related.
The persons made defendants were Pentecos, the trustee; the
Southern Pine Lumber Company, a corporation existing under
the laws.of the State of Arkansas; T. L. L. Temple and Benjamin Whitaker, partners under the name of the Southern Pine
Lumber Company; G. M. D. Grigsby and D. J.Grigsby, composing the. firm of Grigsby Brothers; G. W. R. Chinn and his
wife, and T. L. L.-Temple individually, and other persons
whom it is unnecessary to name. The defendants, the Southern
Pine Lumber Company, T. L. L. Temple, G. W. R. Chinn and
his wife, filed a joint answer. The discount of the five thousand
dollar note by the National Bank of Jefferson and the execution of the deed of trust securing the same was admitted, but
the right of Ward to sue upon the note was denied, it being
averred that the note had been -extinguished by paytnent
made to the receiver of the National Bank of Jefferson. The
proceedings for the sale of the property in'the attachment suit
were also admitted, and the validity of the purchase made in
virtue of the execution issued in that suit was asserted. It
was alleged that the answering defendants G, W. R. Chinn
and his wife have a complete and perfect title in fee simple to
the lots embraced in the trust deed situated in Oklahoma City,
and that "the -Southern Pine Lumber Company claims and
charges that it has perfect title to all the property described
in said trust deed situated in the city of Guthrie, Oklahoma
Territory, which they acquired. by purchase."' The answer
admitted that although the trust deed was of record at the
time of the attachment proceedings, as no notice was given to
the trustee or the, National Bank of Jefferson, those proceedings did not affect .the riglits secured by the deed, but that all
such rights, if any, had ceased to exist in virtue of the payment

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

of the. note, to secure which the trust deed had been executed.
Charging that the trust deed as remaining on the record was a
cloud upon their title, the prayer was not only for a dismissal
of the petition of the plaintiff, but for affirmative relief in
favor of the defendants by decreeing them to be the owners
of the property, free from the operation of the trust deed.
The two Grigsbys answered, admitting the execution of the
note and trust deed by which it was secured, and that the note
was due by them to Ward, the plaintiff, who held the same,
as well as the trust deed, by a valid assignment from the National Bank of Jefferson. By way of answer to the affirmative
relief prayed by the other defendants, and as a cross-complaint,
it was, with great elaboration, alleged that the proceedings in
the attachment suit and the sale made. thereunder were absolutely void. To support this averment it was charged that the
attachment suit was a mere fraudulent scheme devised 15y
Temple for the purpose of defrauding them of their undivided
interest in tl.e lots in Oklahoma City and Guthrie; that the
judgment sued on in Oklahoma in the name of the American
Exchange Bank of St. Louis had long prior to the bringing of
the 'suit been satisfied, and that the suit was brought in the
name of the American Exchange Bank without the knowledge
of that bank or under its authority, and was therefore actually
prosecuted by Temple against himself in order to accomplish
the fraud which he had in view. That the alleged open account
embraced in the attachment suit had never, in any.-way, been
transferred .to the American Exchange Bank, and that that
bank had no knowledge of or connection with the account.
It was, moreover, alleged that the proceedings in the suit were
additionally void, because of the entire absence of legal notice,
actual or constructive, to the parties defendant who had interests to protect in that cause. It was averred that the debt
represented by the note originally sued on in Texas by the
American Exchange Bank was due solely by Temple, and that
in satisfying the judgment which had been rendered on the
note, he, Temple, had laid his own debt, because the note had

SOUTHERN PINE CO. v. WARD.
208 U.S.

. 133

Opinion of the ourt.

been given in the nane of the Union Mills Lumber Company
to Temple as a part of the settlement of the partnership affairs,
he coming under the obligation to pay the note, but if the note
could be treated as a liability of the firm they (the two Grigsbys)
would have paid any proportion due by. them as partners of
the Union Mills Lumber Company, had any notice, actual or
constructive, been given them of an alleged claim on the part
of Temple against them growing out of the note and the batisfaction by him of the judgment rendered upon the note in the
Texas court.
A demurrer was filed by the defendants, the Southern Pine
Lumber Company and Chinn and wife, to the cross-complaint
of the Grigsbys, on the ground that it showed no right to relief,
that it sought collaterally to attack the judgment rendered in
the attachment suit, and that the facts alleged disclosed such
laches as estopped from recovery. Immediately afterwards a
general denial was filed by the same persons without any reservation of the demurrer. The case by stipulation was submitted
upon the evidence taken to the court Without a jury. The court
decided in favor of Ward, the plaintiff, and in favor of "the
Grigsbys on their cross-complaint. Two formal judgments
were enteied on the journal, one relating td the claim of Ward
and the other to the cross-complaint of the Grigsly. In the
judgment in favor of the plaintiff Ward the journal entry
recites: "And the court, after hearing'the evidence, finds that
all of the allegations contained in the plaintiff's petition, filed
herein, are true, and that there is due from defendants G. M. D.
Grigsby and D. J.Grigsby to the plaintiff W. B. Ward, on the
note and mortgage sued on in this action the sum of fifty-one
hundred dollars, and that said note specifies that said indebtedness shall bear interest," etc.
Again: "The court finds that the trust deed sued upon in
this action and the note which said deed was given to secure,
are each legal and valid as against the defendants G. M. D.
Grigsby and D. J. Grigsby; that the plaintiff is entitled to have
said deed fd.reclosed as a mortgage in this action."

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

Again: "The court further finds that W. B. Ward, the plaintiff in this action, is, at this time, the owner of said note and
trust deed."
In considering the proceedings in the attachment suit and
the prayer of Ward's petition that the sale under said proceedings be held to be void and the cloud upon his rights created
thereby be removed, the court found:
"From the evidence that the judgment in cause number
1524, entitled the American Exchange Bank of St. Louis,
• Mo., against, the Southern Pine Lumber Co. et al, defendants,
rendered in the District Court of Logan .County, Oklahoma
Territory,, on the 2nd day of March, 1895, and all proceedings or transfers of property under and by virtue .of said judgment and cause of action, are each null and void and of no
force and effect, and that the purchasers at the sale of the
property levied upon, under such judgment, took nothing by
their purchase; the court finds that the trust deed sued upon
in this action and the note which said deed was given to secure,
are each legal and valid as against the defendants G. M. D.
Grigsby and D. J. Grigsby, that the plaintiff is entitled to have
said deed foreclosed as a mortgage in this action."
And in accordance with these findings a judgment was entered in favor. of Ward, the plaintiff, for the amount of the
* note, principal and interest,. directing the sale of the -property
-embraced in the trust deed and the application of the proceeds,
first, to the payment of costs; second, to the payment to Ward
of the principal and interest of the note and attorney's fees,
and the turning over of the residuum, if any, to the Grigsbys
as the owners (f the property, and barring all rights of the other
defendants in the property.
The judgment disposing of the cross-petition of the Grigsbys
declared, concerning the debt of Ward, as follows: "The court
further finds from the evidence and the pleadings that it is
admitted by the defendants G. M. D. Grigsby and D. J. Grigsby,
the cross-petitioners in this action, that they are indebted
to the plaintiff*W. B. Ward by reason of the note and trust

SOUTHERN PINE CO. v. WARD.
208 U. S.

deed

.....

Opinion of the Court.

and that said debt is a legal and subsisting

debt as against the defendants, and is a legal charge upon the
property involved in this action." Concerning the attachment proceedings and the sale made thereunder it was expressly found from the evidence that the defendants and
cross-complainants, the Grigsbys, had no knowledge of the
pendency of the action in time to appear and make defense
thereto, that the affidavits for publication and for attachment
were wholly insufficient and did not state facts adequate to
confer jurisdiction upon.the court, that the petition also failed
to state facts sufficient to confer jurisdiction, and that all the
steps taken in the attachment suit, including the sale, were
wholly void and of no effect. Concerning the averments
of fraud in the bringing of the attachment suit in the
name of the American Exchange Bank the court found as
follows:
"The American Exchange Bank of St. Louis, Mo., the plaintiff in said action, never at any time brought said suit, or authorized any one to bring said action in its name, and had no
knowledge of the pendency of said a tion'until a long time
after the rendition 'of the judgment therein and the property
had been sold thereunder. The court further finds it a fact
that the defendants in said action did not owe the plaintiff,
the American Exchange Bank, any sum or sums of money;
the court further finds as a fact that said action was prosecuted
by one of the defendants as against himself and other defendants in the name Of the' American Exchange Bank, without its
knowledge or consent, and for the purpose of defrauding these
defendants and cross-petitioners out of, their property rights
involved in this action, and the court further finds that said
action'was a fraud and an imposition upon the court. as well
as on the defendants and cross-petitioners; the court further
finds that the Southern Pine Lumber Co., a corporation, and
T. L. L. Temple and all other persons purchasing at the sheriff's
sale under the judgment..in said cause number 1524 above
referred to and their grantees, took nothing by their pur-

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

chase, by reason of said judgment and proceedings had there.under, beixg without jurisdiction in the court and absolutely
void."
A judgment was. entered avoiding the sale made under the
attachment proceedings and awarding the Grigsbys the property, subject to the enforcement of the rights of Ward under
the deed of trust After an unsuccessful attempt to obtain a
new trial, error was prosecuted to the Supreme Court of the
Territory. That court, after elaborately disposing of motions
to dismiss, affirmed the judgment. The co'urt held that it was
unnecessary to consider the sufficiency of the affidavits for
publication, and attachment in the attachment suit, as the
findings below concerning the fraud in bringing that Suit and
the absence of a party plaintiff therein sustained the action
of the trial court.
"The Southern Pine Lumber Company, a corporation,"
T. L. .L. Temple and G. W. R. Chinn and his wife, appealed
and moreover prosecuted a writ .of error. Our jurisdiction to
review i s by appeal (Natl. Live Stock Bank v. First NatI. Bank,
.203 U. S. 296, 305, and cases cited), and therefore we dismiss
.the writ of error 'from consideration.
On September .15, 1907, a motion tb dismiss was postponed
to the merits. The grounds are that the cause was not docketed
,.*ithin the time required by rule of this court, because proper
parties were not made in the court below, and because the
court below erred in not sustaining.a motion to dismiss, and
moreover because the- assignments of erron here relied on are
insufficient.
The judgment,. was rendered on September 7, 1905. On
June 12, 1906, the appeal was allowed... While the record was
deposited with: the clerk of this court wthin thirty days, it
was not docketed until after thirty days, because the counsel
-who. originally forwarded the record were not. attorneys of this
*court,- and'hence not qualified to enter their appearance. As
the docketing was accomplished soon afterwards (August 10,
1906),.and no motion to docket and .dismiss under Rule 9 .was

SOUTHERN PINE CO. v. WARD.
208 U.8.

Opinion of the Court.

made, the contention is without merit. Green v. Ehert, 137 /
U. S. 615; Richardson v. Green, 130. U. S. 104.
Service of citation was accepted by all the appellees. The
acceptance on behalf of G. M. D. Grigsby and D. J.Grigsby,
late partners as Grigsby. Brothers and individually, was made
on June 15, 1906, by their attorney of record. On June 30,
1906, G. M. D. Grigsby died. In this court the death of G. M. D.
Grigsby was suggested and the proper order for publication
was made aid' the return thereof filed. The contention is that
the proceedings to make the representatives of G. M. D.
Grigsby parties should have been taken in the court below
and that hence the notice of publication for that purpose had
in this court was ineffective. The answer to the proposition
is, that the jurisdiction of this court attached upon the allowance of the appeal. Evans v. State Bank, 134 U. S.330, 331,
and cases cited. And, although, by a subsequent failure to.
duly prosecute, the benefits of the appeal might have been
lost (Grigsby v. Purcell, 99'V. S. 505, 508), yet, clearly, as
not only had the appeal been allowed, but citation had been
issued and acceptance ot service thereof been made by the
attorney of record of the Grigsbys during the lifetime of both,
the appeal was pending in this court at the time of the death of
G. M. D. Grigsby, and as the case had been docketed proceedings
were rightfully taken here to make.his representative a party.
The remaining grounds, viz., the failure of the court below
to dismiss and the inadequacy of the assignments of, error,
involve no question concerning our jurisdiction. In order,
however, to at once dispose of the first contention we observe
that the appellees cannot be heard to assail the judgment
below, since they did not appeal. Field v. Barber Asphalt
Paving Co., 194 U. S. 618, 621, and cases cited.
We come to the -me'rits. Before doing so it is necessary to
fix acc.urately the scope of our inquiry. The case was. submitted to the trial court by stipulation without a jury. That
court by virtue of the Code of. Civil Procedure of Oklahoma
was empowered to make findings of fact as the basis of its

.138

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

conclusions of law. Rev. Stat. of 1903 (4477), § 279. On the
writ of error which was prosecuted to the Supreme Court of
the Territory that court was confined to determining whether
the findings of the court below sustained the judgment if there
was evidence supporting the findings and was not at liberty
to consider the'mere weight of the evidence upon which the
findings were made by the trial court. Under these circumstances, notwithstanding the ruling in Natl. Live Stock Bank
v. First Natl. Bank, supra, pointing out the difference between
the method of reviewing -a case coming from the Territory of
-Oklahoma and cases coming from the Territories generally, our
review in the case before us is confined to determining whether
the court below erred;. that is, whether that court was mistaken
In ho ding'that there was evidence tending to support the
findings and that such findings sustained the judgment. Halsell
v. RePfrow, 202 U. S.-.287.
1st: It is contended that the court below erred because it
did not find, as a matter of fact,, that the-debt was due Ward,
but contented itself, as did the trial .court, with assuming the
debt to'be due; merely as a result of a collusive admission made
-by the'Grigsbys to that effect in their answer, thus depriving
the defendants of the property acquired by them in the attach.ment. proceedings because of the Weakness of their title, and
not on account -of the establishment of an adverse right in
Ward. It'being, moreover, insisted that as the. failure to find
affirmativeiy in favor of Ward's debt,' irrespective of the admission made by the Grigsbyg, required the rejection of Ward's'
demand,' a like result was necessary as to the cross-petition
of the' Grigsbys, sirice that petition was purely ancillary to the
original demand-of Ward for relief, and therefore should have
shared a likefate.
'It is apparent that these contentions rest upon the proposition that' no finding wa made by the court'below concerning
the existence of the debt of Ward. The proposition is. thus
stated in the brief of counsel:'
."'In the judgment of the District Court the only finding as

SOUTHERN PINE CO. v. WARD.
208 U. S.

139

Opinion of the Court.

to Ward's debt is that 'from the evidence and the pleadings
it is admitted by the defendants G. M. D. Grigsby and D. J.
Grigsby, the cross-petitioners in this action,' that they are
indebted to the plaintif,' " etc.
The words thus quoted. are taken from the findings and judgment of the trial court disposing of the cross-petition .of the
Grigsbys, but these words immediately follow the passage
relied on:
"By reason of the note and trust deed sued on by the plaintiff in this action in the.sum of five thousand seven hundred
and ninety-seven dollars ($5,797,00) -and that said. debt is a
legal and subsisting debt as against the defendants and is a
legal charge upon the property involved in this action."
But putting this out of view, the inaceuracy of the statement
that the passage referred to is "the only finding as to Ward's
debt," is patent on the fate of the record. We say this because
the statement overlooks the explicit findings which the trial
court made, as to the proof of Ward's debt, in the judgment
which was entered concerning that debt which we have previously quoted. -In so far as the proposition assails the sufficiency of the evidence to sustain the express findings concerning the debt of Ward, it suffices to say that we think it is beyond
questior that there was testimony tending toshow that the
note and trust deed originally held by the National Bank of
Jefferson had been acquired by Ward for a valuable consideration. Indeed, that the. proposition now relied upon is a mere
afterthought is demonstrated by the application for a new
trial made in the trial court, since such application, among
others, was expressly based upon- the ground that the court
had erred in finding that Ward's debt had been established.
And the same is substantially true of the assignments. of error
made for the purposes of the writ of error to the .Supreme
Court of. the Territory. In other words, having asserted below
that -error was committed because the trial court had found
that Ward's debt was established by the proof, it is now insisted that the court erred because no such finding was made..

140

OCTOBER TERM,. 1907.
Opinion of the Couirt.

208 U. S.

.While if there had been no evidence tending to sustain the

claim -of Ward other than -the admission of the Grigsbys. such
admission might not have been adequate as tending to sustain
a finding in favor of Ward, clearly such admission, considered
in connectionI with the findings below concerning the proof
of the debt of Ward, is sufficient to answer the argument that
relief should not have been given Ward, because the note
upon which he sued was held by him as collateral security.
We say this because as the note indorsed by Ward to secure
his freedom: from liability upon which the collateral was held
by him was outstanding and last due, the right of Ward to
enforce the collateral was a matter solely between himself and
the Grigsbys with which the purchasers at the attachment
'sale were not concerned, as they had failed in establishing
their plea that -the collateral held by Ward had been extinguished by payment.
2d. It is insisted that the court below erred in not dismissing
the action on the ground of the laches of the Grigsbys in assailing the proceedings in the attachment suit. This objection
can have no relation to the claim of Ward, since the findings
below exclude the conception that Ward's debt was barred
by limitation, and, indeed, the case was tried upon the admission of all the defendants that the debt of Ward was due
at the time of the bringing of the attachment proceedings, and
upon the assertion of Temple, and those who answered with
him, that that debt had been, subsequent. to the attachment
prqceedings, extinguished by payment. True, it is, that laches
•on the part of the Grigsbys was made one of the grounds of
the demurrer filed to their cross-petition, but the answer contained no reservation of the demurrer and' the findings of the
trial court, as well as the -action thereon of the Supreme Court
of the Teritory, negate the conception that the courts below
could have been of th.. opinion that facts sufficient to' show
laches.. had been eatabli:. '-ed. Besides, the' contention as to
laches disregards the coi.iderations which in the nature of
things must arise, when it is borne in mind that the defendants,

SOUTHERN PINE CO. v. WARD.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

who claimed title under the attachment proceedings, did not
rest content with defending their*alleged title, but made that
title the basis of an assertion of a right to affirmative relief,
since they substantially, by eross-petition, invoked such relief
tb maintain the validity of. their title, and to obtain a canceUation of the trust deed-upon which Ward relied.
3d. It is urged that the court below erred in passing upon
the validity, of the attachment proceedings, because there was
an absence of a party whose presence-was essential to a decision
of that question. This is based upon the assertion that T. L. L.
Temple, who testified that he was president of both the"Southern Pine Lumber Company, the Arkansas corporation, and of
the Texas. corporation of the same name, also' testified that the
Arkansas corporation went into liquidation in 1893, and that
the Texas corporation was .the' purchaser at the attachment
sale, and was therefore the owner of the property involved in
the suit. It is insisted that as there was no evidence tending to
dispute this testimony, there was nothing justifying the conclusion that the Arkansas corporation had. an interest in the
property, or had the capacity to stand in judgment concern-

ing the validity of the sale in the attachment proceedings and
the title to the property held thereunder. We think th6
proposition is without merit. Ward, by his petition, made
the Southern Pine Lumbnr Company, a corporation organized
and existing under the laws of Arkansas, Temple and others,
defendants, and did not refer to a Texas corporation, known
as the Southern Pine Lumber Company, as having any rights
whatever in the property. The. answer filed on'behalf of
Temple and the Southern. Pine Lumber Company, the Arkansas
corporation, expressly asserted that that corporation owned
the property and, in effect, implied that it was the purchaser at
the attachment sale. And the same thing is, in effect, substantially true with reference to the cross-petition of the
Grigsbys. As then; on the record, Temple was a' party to the
pleading, which expressly asserted 'title in the Arkansas corporation, and the. whole controversy proceeded upon the truth

142

OCTOBER TERM,. 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. s.

of that assertion, we cannot say that there was nothing justifying the trial court in treating the Arkansas corporation as the
purchaser at the attachment sale and asthe owner of the property, even if to reach that .result.-the trial court may have been
"of the'opinion that the testimony of Temple on the subject
was not worthy of credit. And additional force to this. view
results from a consideration of the proceedings, intervening
subsequent to" the findings and judgment of the trial court
and the final judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory.
..We say this because both the motion'for a new trial made inthe .trial• court on behalf of Temple and the Southern Pine
Lumber Company of Arkansas and the assignments of error
on behalf of the same parties, which were made for the purposes of the writ of error from the Supreme.Court of the Terri:tory, made no reference to the purchase and ownership by the
Texas corporation, but in effect asserted the purchase and
ownership by the Arkansas corporation. The first assertion
upon the record outside of the testimony of Temple of any
right on the part of the- Texas corporation made its appearance in a motion fora rehearing, filed, after the Supreme Court
of.the Territory had decided the case, and -which Was reiterated
in the assignments of error filed on -the appeal to this court.
.The right of the appellees to the judgment in their favor may
not.now be destroyed by a suggestion as to want of parties,
made by. the appellants after final judgment, when that suggestion conflicts with the issues as made up and upon which
the ease was tried, and which, if the. suggestion be correct,
would involve reversing the judgment at the request of the
appellants because of deceit practiced by them upon the
territorial courts. -Because We dispose of the contention upon
the. reasons just stated, we must not be understood as deciding that, in view of the relations of Temple to-the Texas corporation, as testified to by himand the other circumstances dis.. dosed.by the findings below, it may not be that the judgment
.below was conclusive upon the Texas corporation, if it had
titls, although it. was not technically a party tO the record.
-

SOUTHERN PINE CO. -. WARD.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Into a consideration of that subject we do not deem it necessary to enter.
4th. It is insisted that error was committed by :the trial
court in its finding concerning the jurisdictional insufficiency
of the affidavits for publication aid attachment in the attachment suit. But the grounds upon which this is based simply
go to he weight -of the evidence concerning the findings made
by the court on those subjects, and that is not open. Further,
as we'are clearly of _
the opinion that the conclusion of the
Supreme Court. of the Territory, based on the findings below,
as to the fraud in bringing the attaohment suit and the absence
of a party plaintiff, therein, are ample to sustain the judgment,
'irrespective of the affidavits for publication and attachment,
the claim must be held to be without merit. It is, moreover,
urged that the courts below eir'ed in holding the sald void as
-to the Grigsbys, and in recognizing their equity in the property
without condemning them to pay their 'proportion, as partners
in the Union Mill Lumber Company, of the debt which was
sued on in the attachment proceedings and in not taking.into
consideration improvements which it is asserted were put
upon the propeity by the purchaser at the attachment sale.
The first Of these is placed in argumen't upon the ground that
the cross-petition of the Grigsbys admitted that the debt sued
.on in the attachment suit was, as between them and Temple,
a partnership debt,' for which they were jointly liable with
Temple. But this statement, as made in argument, is rested.
solely upon a partial consideration of the Grigsby cross-pe.tition,
and ignores the express allegation to the cofitrary which that
petition .contained. It suffices to say, however, las to both of
these contentions that there is nothing in the record' disclosing
that they were directly or indirectly 'presented to the trial
court by-way of pleading .or otherwise before final judgment,
and indeed were not made the subject of complaint in the motion for a new trial, and were evidently regarded by the Supreme
Court of the Territory as an afterthought and not open under
the state.of the.record.
A/firmed.

