JETTONu. UNIVERSITY OF THE. SOUTH. "489
28U. &

Syllabus.

JEFTON, REVENUE AGENT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE, v. UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 488. Argued January 28, 1908.-Deded February 24. 190.
Although all the parties to this action are citizens of te'same State the.
Circuit Court of the United States had jurisdiction because the case
arises under the Constitution of the United States, as complainant insists.
that the tax sought to be restrained is imposed under a state statutethat impairs the obligation of a legislative contract for exemption from
taxation.
A charter. exemption from taxation of land and buildings to be erected
thereon -so long as they belong to the educational institution exempted
does not exempt frorh taxation the separate interests of parties to whom
the. institution leases portions of the property,, and who erect buildings
thereon; and a subsequent act of the legislature taxing such separate
leasehold interest does not amount to taxing the property owned by the
not unconstitutional under the contract clause 'of the
institution, and .is
Constitution of the United States as impairing the obligation of the
exemption provision in the charter. So hdd as to the act of Tennessee
of 1903.
This court while not bound by the construction placed on a state statute
by the state court, as to whether a contract was created thereby, and
if so how it should be construed, gives to such construction respectful
conkideration, and unless plainly erroneous generally follows it;'a decision
of the state court, however, that a leasehold interest in exempted proplorty cannot, during the exemption, be taxed against the owner of the fee,
is not authority to be followed by this court, on the proposition that the
leasehold interest cannot be taxed without impairing the obligatim, 3f
the contract of exemption against the lessee in his own name and again it
his particular interest in the land.
* A charter exemption from taxation cannot be extended slmply because It
would, as so' construed,'add value to the exemption; and an exemption
from taration of property belonging to an institution, so long as it belongs thereto, will not be extended to also exempt the leasehold interest
of parties to whom the owner leases the same.
This court will not construe a state statute assessing leaseholds and making the tax a lien upon the fee as creating a lien on property exempted
from taxation, and thereby violating the contract clause of the Constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement'of the Case.

208 U. S.

"tion when the state court has not so construed the statute and the taxing
officers of the State disclaim any intention of so construing"it or levying
any tax on exempted property.'.
An exemption of real property from taxation will not be construed as
extending to the interest of the lessee therein, because a forced sale of the
"lessee's interest might put the property in the hands of parties to whom
'the exempted owner objects. , Under the terms of the lease the owner can
prevent -such contingency by redntering for non-payment of taxes.
The fact that the lessee does not own the buildings erected by him on leased
property does fiot affect the right to tax his leasehold interest; it is material only on the question of value of his interest.
.155 Fed. Rep. .182, reversed.

THis is a suit in equity, brought in the United States Circuit
Court for the Middle District of Tennessee, by the University
of the South, a corporation, and 'by 'the several individual
complainants named in the bill, who are residents of the county
of FrYniklin, in that State, and lssees of certain lands from the
university, to obtain. an injunction against the individual de•fendants, who are a state revenue agent, and a trustee of Franklin County, and also against the county of Franklin, in the
above-named State,. to restrairI them from. taking any proceedings to collect taxes from 'the lessees of the university
Within the limits of the thousand acres mentioned 'in the' com*plainants' bill.
.. The bill having been. filed, a'preliminary injunction was issued, restraining the collection of the taxes, as prayed for.
Thereafter a demurrer to the bill was filed by the defendants' on several grounds, among others on the ground that,;'as
to the individual complainants, the bill could not be maintained and the court had no jurisdiction to hear and determine
'the cause on their' behalf.
The defendants also answered.
The demurrer was suitained as to the individual complainants ind the bill dismissed, but wasoverrruled as to the university itself'.
..After a trial .between the university and 'the defendants a
final decree wag entered in favor oi the university, restraining
the defendants from assessing, or attempting to assess, taxes

JETTON v. UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH.
208 U. S.

491

Statement of the Cae.

on the property and leasehold interests described in the bill,
and situated within the thousand acres already referred to.
From this final decree the defendants have taken an appeal..
directly to, this court, under the fifth section of the judiciary
act of August 13, 1891,.c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, as involving the
application of the Constitution of the United States.
The material facts are as follows:
The University of the South is a Tennessee corporation, under a charter granted by the legislature of that State, January 6, 1858, and amended January 19, 1858. The corporation
was created for the purpose of establishing a seminary of learning, to be located at Sewanee, on the Cumberland' Mountain,
in Tennessee.
The tenth section of the act, under which the question arises,
is set forth in the margin.' That question is whether the assessments made against the lessees upon their interests in that
portion of the one thousand acres of the lands leased to them
respectively are valid or whether they are not a violation of
the exemption from taxation granted by that section..
The Civil War coming on soon after the charter vfas granted
very little work was done under it; but .after peace was restored the university authorities, aided by subscriptions from
those interested in the work, went on with it, and in process
of time the thousand acres were duly surveyed and marked
out and many buildings were erected for the university. Leases
were also granted by it of lots within the'thousand-acre limit
to persons who, under such leases, built upon the lots severally
leased to them. . By this method a population of about 1,000
or 1,200 people had bien gathered within the village called,
I Sac. 10. Be itfurther enac t, That said university may hold and possess
as much land as may be'necessary for the buildings and to such extent as
may be sufficient. to protect said institution and the. students thereof from
the intrusion of evil-minded persons who may settle near said- institution,
said land, however, not to exceed terd, thousand acres, one thousand of
which, including buildings and other effects and property of said corpora-.
tion, shall be exempt from taxation as long. as said lands .blong to said
university.

OCTOBER TERM; i907.
Statement of the Case.

208 U. S.

Sewanee, situated within the limit stated, and which was a
barren wilderness when the charter was granted. In fact, the
very existence of the village is the result-of the efforts of the
university.
In the summer of 1906 proceedings were taken to assess
taxes upon the interests of the lessees occupying various lots
under the leases mentioned, and a hearing was had before the
trustee of Franklin County, within which the lots were situated,
and he held that under the act of the legislature of Tennessee;
passed January 10, 1903, c. 258, being the general assessment
act, the lessee of a leasehold interest of a lot in Sewanee was
taxable on the value of such interest, and he thereafter assessed
.,the tsx in tie case-of an individual named, and announced his
intention of doing the same with reference to all lessees similarly situated. This bill. was then filed before any further
assessments were made.
The several leases under which the various lessees of the university held their lots, among other things; provided that the
lessees would pay the rent specified in the lease "and all taxes
and assessments upon said premises." It was also provided
in the leases that the premises should not be sublet or transferred without the consent of the commissioner of lands and
buildings of the university, and that for any violation of the.
*restrictions and provisions made in the lease the lessor might
end and d!termine the lease and reenter upon .the.premises.
Each Jease also contained the following, the blanks being filled
up in accordance.with the terms which might be agreed upon
between the parties:
"And at the expiration of the present term, the University
of -the South shall have the option of taking the premises by.
paying for all such improvements made thereon, or may renew
the lease for another term of
years, on'such terms as
may be agreed upon by the parties respectively, and may also
give a-,second renewal for
years; and in case -the parties cannot agree upon the value of the improivements or-the
rental to be paid for the new term, the same shall be determined

JETTON v. UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH.
208 U. S.

493

Statement of the Case.

by arbitration, one of the arbitrators to be selected by the commissioner of buildings and lands and the other by the lessee; and
in case they cannot agree, they shall call in an umpire
provided, however, that in fixing the rental for the new term,
the value of the improvements shall not be taken into account
as against the said party of the-econd part . . . heirs or
assigns. And it is further agreed that the improvements to the
hundred dollars be made and kept on said
value of
premises by the party of the second part."
At the time of the passage of the act of 1858 (the charter of
the university) there was no statute providing for the separate
taxation of the interest of a lessee in real estate, but the whole
value of the entire real estate was asseshed
against the owner
of the fee. The act of 1903, already mentioned, provided in
subdivision 5. of § 5 that the interest of. a lessee should be
assessed to the owner of such interest separately from other
interests in the real estate'.
Section 32 of the same act provided that all taxes. should be
a lien upon the fee in the property, and not merely upon the
*interest of the person to whom the property was, or ought to
be, assessed, and it .was provided that the whole proceeding for
the collection of taxes, from the delinquency to the sale, shpuld
be-a proceeding in ren.
it is also asertWd by complainant as a further ground of in-validity that § 2, subd. 2, ofthe act of 1903, providing a general exemption from taxation of religious, educational and other
named classes of institutions, as therein stated, does not provide as broad an exemption as the special exemption granted
the universi ty by its. charter, and if it be held that the above
general exemption does not reach the complainant, while at
the same time it is claimed to repeal the special exemption
provided by the charter it .impairs the contract between the
State and the university, and is therefore void.
Mr..CharWes T; Cates, Junior, Attorney General of the State
of Tennessee, and Mr. FelizD. Lynch, with whom Mr. Frank L.

OCTOBER TERM. 1907.
Argument for. Appellanta

208 U. S.

Lynh, Mr. I. G.Phillips and Mr. Thomas B. Lytle were on the
brief, for appellants:
No Federal question was made by the bill. All of the parties, complainant and defendant, are citizens of the same State
and no.jurisdiction could be conferred upon the Circuit Court
by the averments of the bill as to the alleged impairment of
the obligation of a contract between the State of Tennessee
and the University of the. South. The continuing binding force'
of the contract between the State and the university has-been
solemnly admitted by the appellants, representing the State
and the County of Franklin, and adjudged by the Supreme
Court of the State of Tennessee. University of the South v.
Skidmore, 87 Tennessee, 155 et seq.
'
When, notwithstanding these facts,. appellee contends that
its charter is. impaired ky the provisions of the Tennessee as-.
sessment act of 1903, c. 258, the reply is that the..act in question, when properly, construed, does not in any wag. affect
Appellee's property or place. any lien or- cloud thereon. The
provision contained in §32 of the act, that all taxes .onreal
estate shall be a lien upon the fee in said property, must be
construed to mean that such taxes shall be a lien upon the fee.
in property that is not exempt. This construction harmonizes
and -gives. effect to all parts of said act, and sustains the. same
as a valid enactment in accordance with Intention of the leg-islature.. Lewis' Sutherland. Stat. Const., .§§381, 382. See also.
Gold v. Fie,, 2 Baxt. (Tenn.) 248,..249; Standard Oil Co. v.
State, 117 Tennessee, 618,640, 641.
In ascertaining the irtention of the. legislature, it wi011 not.
be presumed that the lawmakers intended to pass an act, in
conflict with the organic law: Maxey v. Po6ers, 117 Tennessee,
403; Wise & Co. v. Morgan, .l1.
Tennessee ,' 282; Rose v' Wortham, 95 Tenne*6e; 508.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Tennessee that appellee!e property is exempt from taxation has the fore' of a
la~i of the State, nd will be treated as "a part of the statute
affecting said. property.

JETTON v'. UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH..
208 U. B.

495

Argument for Appellant.

It is not sufficient to give this court jurisdiction upon the
grounds claimed, that by possibility there may be some cloud:
cat upon appellee's title by some possible action of the officere
of the State, because the presumption in all cases is that the
courts of the State and the officers thereof will do what the
Constitution and laws of the United States require.. Shre eport v. Cole, 120 U. S. 36; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370.
The property rights of the several lessees of appellee in and
to their respective leasehold estates and the improvements
erected thereon under their several leases are lawfully subject
to taxation by the State and county.
The legislature may provide that real estate shall be assessed
as personalty or that personalty shall be taxed as realty.
Cooley on Taxation (3d ed.), p. 641. And see §63, Code of
*Tennessee (Shannon), the effect of-which was th change the
common law rule that a leasehold estate is personal property.
Alley & Bush v. Lanier, 1 Cold. 540; Burr v. Graves,. 4 Lea,.
556.
The words "owner of land," as used in the statutes of
Tennessee, do not necessarily mean the person owning the entire estate in such property, but may mean any person having
an interest therein, whether in fee or for a term of years,
Alley & Bush v. Lanier, 1 Cold. 540. See also Cooley on Taxation (3d ed.), pp. 633, 634, and cases there cited.
Under the provisions-of the clauses herein in question, the improvements made by the lessees unquestionably belong to them
and the plain implication of the leases is that, unless paid for
by the university at the end of the term, the lessees might
lawfully remove them. Under such circumstances a lessee
making improvemehts on leased land is liable for taxes on such
improvements. See RuSsell v. City of New Haven, 51 Connecticut, 259; Philadelphia &c. R' R. v. Appeal Tax Court, 50
Maryland, 397; Zumstein v. Coal Co., 50 Ohio, 264; Bentley v.
Barton, 4 Ohio St. 410; Parkerv. Redfield, 10 Connecticut, 490;
People v. Bd. of. Assessors, 93 N. Y. 308, 311.; Ex parte.Gaines,
96 Arkansas,227; San F1rnciscov. McGnrn, 67 California, 110;

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellee,

208 U. S.

Stale v. Campbell, 23 La. Ann. 445; People v. Shearer, 30 California, 645, 656, 657; State v. Moore, 12 California, 56, 69, 70;
State v. Tucker, 38 Nebraska, 56, 59, 60; Luttrell v. Knox
County, 89 Tennessee, 257.
Appellee's charter exemnption is personal to it. Immunity
from taxation is not transferable; it is a privilege personal to
the grantee. Pickard v.E. T.. V. & G. Ry. Co., 130 U. S. 631;
State v. Mercantile Bank, 160 U. S. 161.
The intent to confer an exemption, and especially when it is
insisted that the exemption passes to a transferee of the original
-grantee" must be clear,.beyond a reasonable doubt. Railroad
Tax Cases, 18 Wall.. 226; Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Peters,
565.
Mr. James J. Lynch and Mr. Arthur Crounover, with whom
Mr. William D. Spears, Mr. Isaac W. Crabtree, Mr. John J.
Vertrees, Mr. Albert T. McNeal and Mr. William L, Myers
were-on the brief, for appellee:
The assessment act of 1903 impairs the obligation of the
contract of exemption between the State and the university.
At the time this charter was granted, and until the passage
of the act of 1903 complained of, the common. law rule that
taxes on leased property should be assessed to the lessor prevailed in Tennessee. This rule is well established. Taylor on
Landlord and Tenant, § 341. See also-East Tenn., Va. & Ga.
Ry. Co. v. Mayor &c. o/ Morristoum, 35 S. W. Rep. 771. Thus
when this exemption was granted.the leaseholdinterests were
assessable as a part of the whole estate to the university, as
lessor, and formed a part of the estate exempted from taxation
by this charter.
.Inthe case of University v. Skidmore, 87 Tennessee, 155, it
was decided that the property.is exempt from taxation so long
as the title remained in-the ,University of the Smith. The State .
cannot now violate this contract and tax this exempt property
by simply passing a statute changing the method of assessment. See State o1 New Jersey v. Wilson. 7 Crancqh, 164, hold-

JETTON
208 U.S.

i.

UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH.

497

Argument for Appellee.

ing that the exemption attached to the property and passed
to the purchaser, as it has been held. t.hat the exemptionattached to this property so long as the title remains in the uni-.
versity, and that leasing the property does not take the title'
out of the university so as to destroy the exemption.. The
exemption is for the benefit of the university,. and, as. the
record shows, materially enhances the yalue of ,its property
in leasing same. It is*this value that the act we are complaining of destroys.
By the terms of the leases the university is required to'enter
into a new contract, as to the amount of rent to be paid, at
the expiration of each terin. Necessarily, if the property is
assessable for taxes, as against the lessee, it will not- be so
valuable to him as when free from taxation. As shown, this
immunity from taxation entered into and became a Oart of
the original lease contract, and was one of. the . things. taken
into consideration in fixing the annual rent thus contracted for.
This element of value in the property of the university is thus
destroyed by this act of which we complain.
This tax against the lessee is a tax on the right to. occupy the
land. Hence, in taxing the property when leased, or in taxing
the interest leased, a tax is placed upon the only'use to which
the propefty can p6ssibly be put, to .be made of value to the
university. The State insists that, while it may not tax the
property directly, it may, nevertheless, tax its use or right of
occupancy;.while it may not tax the land, it may, nevertheless,
tax the rent or income from the land, and thus burden its only
value to the university. But se6 Pollock v. Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co., 157 U. S. 427; Dougherty v. Thompson, 71 Texas,
202; Moseley v. Sta&, 1.15 Tennessee, 52. Cases of San Francisco v. McGinn, 67 California, 110; State v. Tucker, 38 Nebraska, 56; Luttrell v. Knox *County, 89 Tennessee, 257, and
others, cited by appellants, discussed and distinguished.
It is not true, as stated by appellants, that the lessees own
the buildings, and the arguments based upon this alleged ownership are therefore without force.
Vol. oovx-32

".498

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

The Supreme Court of Tennessee in the Skidmore caw,
treated these improvements as the property of the university,
and the decision in that case is based on that theory.
Even if the construction contended for by appellant that the
lien should be limited to the lessee's interest in the property,
the State would only have a right to sell the lessee's interest
for the payment of taxes.
The injury to the 'university remains the same; if the State
is permitted to assess the lessee's interest, and sell same for
the payment of taxes, the university's control ,over this'property is lost, and one of the greatest advantages provided for,
in - 10 of the charter, is destroyed.
By retaining the title to, and the absolute 'control over, this
one-thousand-acre reservation the university has been able to
say who shall come near it. The leases all provide that they
may not be assigned without the consent of the university.
But, if the State can sell the property for taxes at public auction, the university is helpless to prevent the intrusion of outsiders. Its power to protect its students from contaminating
influences will be gone, and one of its most cherished ideals will
be'destroyed.
P
E PCKHAM,
MR.JUSTIC

after making.the foregoing statement,
delivered the. opinion of the court.
"The appellant insists .that.the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of this suit, because all the partiesare citizens of Tennessee.
We think, however, that jurisdiction existed, because the case
is oie arising under the Co rstitution of the United States, the
complainan't insisting that under such Constitution the law of
the State of Tdnnessee, passed in 1903, is invalid, because it
impairs the obligations of a contract protected by that instrument.. Illinois R.R.Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S.28, 35. We therefore pass to the merits of the controversy.
As the complainant maintains that the exemption clause in
the tenth section of its charter is broader than that contained
in the second section of the act of 1903, we may at once refer

JETTONv. UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH.
208 U. B.

499

Opinion of the Court.

to the charter exemption, and if the contention of complainant is not justified by that exemption, it is unnecessary to
consider that. which is given by the act of 1903; It is by the
charter exemption that we are to judge the matter.
Upon the question of the proper construction of the exemption clause in the charter, the case of the University 'of the
South v. Skidmore, 87 Tennessee. (3 Pickle), 155, is cited, and
it is urged that-withii that ease no 'tax can be assessed against
the lessees of this prbperty.within the 1,000.acres. While in
such a case as this we form our own judgment as to the existence and. constructiop of the alleged contract, and are'not
concluded by the'construction which the state court has placed
on the statute that forms such*contract, yet we give to that
construction the most respectful consideration and it will in
general be followed, unless it seems to be plainly erroneous.
L6oking at the Skidmore case, we find that it does not uphold
the contention maintained by the -complainant. In that case
the university filed 'a bill against Skidmore, trustee of Franklin County, to enjoin him from. assessing for taxation against
the university the property belonging to it within the 1,000
acres.. In answer to' the bill the State contended that the
-thousand. acres would be exempt 'from taxation so -long only
as they were -substantially owned by the university, but that
when it gave a lease of the kind described in the case before
us it ceased during the term of the lease to be the real and substantial owner of the land so leased, which by the lease was
taken out of the exemption granted by the statute, and was
from that time taxable against the university. The Supreme
Court, however,. held that the assessment made was void because the property, the land owned by the university, was
exempt from taxation so long as it belonged to'that corporation, and the making of the leases did not permit the property
to be taxed against the university.
This is a different proposition from the one asserted by the
complainant, and is not authority for its contention that the
assessment cannot be made against the lessee in his own name

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court;'

208 U.

S.

for his particular interest in the land while the university continueS to own the fee.
It is plain that the state court has not construed the statute
of 1858 as a contract that the interest of the lessee in the land
granted to him for a term of years by the university cannot be
assessed or taxed against him because of the. exemption in
question.
Counsel for the appellees, placing the Skidmore case aside for
the moment, assert that when this exemption was granted
leasehold interests were only assessable against the owner of
the fee as part of the whole estate, and it was therefore a part
of the-estate exempted from taxation by the charter. -We think
this is not a correct construction of the contract of exemption.
As long as different interests may exist in the same land, we
think it plain that an exemption granted to the owner of the
land in fee does not extend to an exemption from taxation of
an interest in the same land, granted by the owner of the fee
to another person as a lessee for a term of years. The two
interests are totally distinct, and .the exemption of one. from
taxation plainly does not thereby exempt the other. The fact
that at the time when the exemption was granted to the owner
of the fee the State had not provided for taxation against the.
lessee in his own name, is not important. The different interests of an owner of the fee and an owner of an estate for
years as lessee, existed, and such existence was recognized.
An exemption of one did not.necessarily include the exemption
of theother. The contract of 'exemption did not imply in the
most remote degree that the State would not thereafter,
through its legislature, so change its mode of assessment as
to reach the interest of a lessee directly, and not through the
owner of the fee. In so doing the State does'hot tax the owner
of the land in fee nor the fee itself. It taxes what it had a right
to tax-a separate and distinct interest in the land, although
the fee thereof be in the university, which cannot be taxed
therefor. The doctrine that laws which are in force when a
contract is made will generally enter into its obligations (Osh-

JETTON v. UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH.
208 U. 6.

501"

Opinion of the Court.

kosh &c. v. Oshkosh, 187 U. S. 437) is not denied, but it has no
application. The laws existing when the contract was made
have not been altered so as to impair the obligations of that
contract by the passage of the act of 1903. Those obligations
remain precisely as they were prior to its passage. The change
wrought by the act affected third persons only (the lessees of
real estate) andinstead, of leaving them to be taxed .in the
name ofltheir lessor for their interest in the land as such lessees,
the act provided for their separate taxation. Such aet impaired no obligation of contract between the State and the
university.
Nor is such an assessment the same in substance as one
against the owner in fee of the land. *We cannot see that.Pollock .v. Farmers"Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, touches the
case. This is not a tax on the rents or income of real estate.
The university receives the rents or incomie free from any tax,
The tax is, in both form and substance, upon a separate interest in real estate granted by the' lessor, and is assessed against
the owner of such separate interest. 'If the university could
lease its lands ,and could also effectally provide that the
interest of the lessee in the land so leased should be exempt
from taxation, it may readily be seen that the amount of rent
which it would receive would be larger than if no such exemption could be obtained, but 'that is a matter which is wholly
immaterial upon the question of the impairment of the con-.
tract of exemption that was really made. That contract cannot
be extended simply because it would, as so construed, add
value to the exemption. The language used does not include
the exemption claimed.
The lessee also agreed in..the lease to pay the taxes in any.
event, and the claim that the agreement was intended only to
refer to municipal taxation which might be provided for by
the university cannot prevail against the plain .words of the
agreement.
That part of § 32 of the act of 1903, which makes the tax a
lien upon the fee, even if void in that particular,.does not make

OCTOBER TERM, 1907. .
Opinion of the Codrt.

208 U. S.

the section void which provides for the separate assessment of
the interest of the lessee. It is proper to mention that .the appellants did not and.do not claimi that the thirty-second section
gives a lien 'pon the fee for the tax against the lessee in cases
where the fee is itself exempt from taxation, but they assert
that the correct construction of that section is to apply the
lien to the fee only in cases where the fee itself may be'taxed;
and in their answer they expressly aver that under that section neither the State nor county can have a lien upon any
property which is exempt from taxation,' and that no claim has
ever been made, or was made in the proceedings instituted
by the state revenue agent that the interest of the university in
the leased .premises could be assessed for taxation or could in
any way be affected by the proceedings so instituted, and the
defendants disclaimed any intention of assessing or levying any
tax whatsoever against the property of the complainant university, and they denied that the assessment of the interests
of the several lessees of the complainant university in the buildings and improvements erected by them upon said property
would in any manner affect the interest of the university. What
is the proper construction of that section on this point is not a
matter of importance as to future assessments, because the
State, having these objections before it, and, as we may pre-,
sume, in order t6 avoid any such objection,, even though
possibly hot well founded, passed another assessment act in
1907, repealing the one of 1903, and recognizing as valid all
charter exemptions, and also providing that the lien of the
tax should not apply to or affect any fee in property wherethe
same was exempt from taxation. The question, however,
remains, so far as the assessment here involved is concerned,
and we are of opinion that the construction contended for by
the defendants is the correct one. We cannot assume that the
State would endeavor to create a lien upon property. which. it
recognized as exempt from taxation,*for the purpose Of thereby
attempting to obtain such a security for the -payment of a tax
due from another upon different property which is not exempt.

JETTON v. UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH...503
208 U. E

Opinion of th6 Court.

This never could have been the intention of the framers of the
act of 1903.
Again, it is urged that if the interest of the lessee can be
taxed, it might be sold for the non-payment of the tax, and
thus some one might get into possession who would not be. a
proper person to be in such place, and the chief purpose of the
charter in this respect would fail. -[f the interest of the lessee
in the land could be sold for non-payment of the tax assessed
thereon, such result would arise from the act of the university
in creating it. But the lessor might under the terms. of the
lease at once reenter for non-payment of taxes.
What is the -exact interest of the lessee in the land leased to
him it is not necessary to here determine. It is plain that he
has some interest in it, and that iRterest is distinct from the
fee, and may be taxed when the fee is exempt from taxation.
See cases to that effect in the margin. 1 In Elder v. Wood, decided January 27, 1908, ante, p. 226, it was held that a mere
possessory right in a mining-claim in land to which the United
States had title was a right separate from the fee, and might
be taxed under a state statute, although the fee could not because it was in the Government. New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cr.
164, is not in point. The exemption was assumed to be absolute, unconditional and unlimited in time. It seems that there
was an act (that of 1796) which authorized the lands to be
leased, but that act was *not brought to the attention of the
court. See Given v. Wright, 117 U. S.648, 655, where a more
full history of the case is given. The act repealing the exemption, passed after the sale of the lands by the Indians, was held
a contract. In the
void because it impaired the obligations o.f
case before Us the exemption lasts only so long as the university
owns the lands, and when it conveys a certain interest in them
I People v. Brooklyn Assessors, 93 N. Y. 308; People v..Tax Commissioners,
80 N. Y. 573; Parker v. Redfield, 10 Connecticut, 490; Russell v. New Haven,
51 Connecticut, 259; Brainard.v. Colchester; 31 Connecticut, 407; Lord v.
Litchfield, 36 Connecticut, 116; Philadelphia R. R. v. Appeal Tax Court,
50 Maryland, 307; Zumstein v. Coal Co., 54 Ohio St. 264; Bent2ey v. Barton,
41 Ohio St. 410.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.i

208 LT.S.

to a third person it no longer owns that interest, which at once
becomes subject to the right of the State to tax it. When the
State exercises that right, as it did under the act of 1903, and
taxes the interest in the name of its owner,-the State thereby
violates no contract, and the tax is valid.
It is said that although the lessee is bound to make improvements, yet he does not own them,even though their value is
not to be taken into consideration against him when his lease
is renewed. Whether he is the owner of the improvements made
by him until the same are paid for at some time, is not material
upon the question of the separate interests of the lessee and'
the owner of the fee, the ownership of the improvements being
only material upon the question of the value of the interest'of
the lessee. Even if the university was-entitled to become and
was the owner of such improvements at the end of the second
renewal, without paying for them, the question still remains
as to the value of the separate interest of the lessee, which, even
-upon that assumption, might be greatly more than the rent to
be paid. The value of whatever interest he has is to be assegsed
as real estate under the statute, and that value must be determined by the assessing officer. All we can say is that it is
a separate and distinct interest from that of the owner of the.
fee and the assessment of that' interest for taxation is not an
- assessment upon the interest ,of the university, and is not a
violation of the.exemption granted to it by the statute of 1858.
*The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed and the
case remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the bill.
Reversed.

