CRARY v. DYE.
208 U.'

Opinion of the Court.

CRARY v. DYE.
ERROR. TO THE SUPREME COURT OF .THE TERRITORY QF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 103. Argued January 13, 14, 1008..-Decided Febr.uary 24. 1908.
The views of the territorial courts are very persuasive on this court asto
the construction of local statutes.
This court holds, following the construction by the Supreme Court: of New
Mexico of the statutes of that Territory, that there is no authority in
New Mexico for the issuing of an alias writ of attachment, and that levying upon property under such a writ gives the court no jurisdiction thereover, and the purchaser, acquires no title through sale under such a levy.
One, claiming to have been influenced by the declarations or conduct of
another in regatd to expending fhoney on real estate must, in order to"
assert estoppel against that person, not only be. destitute. of knowledge
of the true state of the title,. but also of any convenient and available
means of acquiring knowledge in regard thereto; where the condition of
the title to real property is known to both parties, or both have the same
means of ascertaining the truth, there can be no estoppel.
One whose mining property was sold -under a void attachment held in this
case not to haye been estopped from asserting his title to the property
as against-the vendee from th purchaser at the sheriff's sale-by reason
of statements made by him to such ,vendee prior to the final payment.
Held also in this case that the actions add:declarations of the owner of a
mining claim sold under a void attachment did not amount to an abandonment of his claim so that he could not reassert his title to the property
as against the purchaser at the sale or his vendee.
78 Pac. Rep. 533,"affirmed..
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

M. H..B. Fergusson, with whom Mr. Elegb .Baca was on
the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. W. B. Childers-for defendants in'error.
MR. JUSTICE McKENA delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment for certain mining ground in the
Teiritory of New Mexico. Plaintiffs in error claimed title by
virtue of a sheriff's sale in proceedings against Dye, one of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U; S.

defendants in error, reinforced by certain declarations of the
latter, which, it is contended, constitute an estoppel against
him to assert the invalidity of the sale or claim of title thereunto. There have been two trials of the action. The first resulted in a verdict for. plaintiffs in error, which. was reversed
by the Supreme C?urt of the Territory. 78 Pac. Rep. 533.
The second trial resulted in ajudgment for defendants in error,
which was affirmed by the Supreme Court, This writ of error
was then sued out.
The validity of the sale and an estoppel, based on the facts
hereinafter referred to, were relied on by plaintiffs in error at
the first trial, and they secured a verdict by the initructions
of the court. The Supreme Court of the Territory reversed it,
adjudging the sale to be invalid on the ground that an alias
attachment was not authorized by the laws of the Territory.
78 Pac. Rep. 533. On the second appeal the court refused to
review this decision, holding it to be the "law of the case," "and
not open to; further review.. It confined its consideration to
the question of estoppel and decided the question adversely
to the contention of plaintiffs in error, and affirmed the judgment against them. This writ of error brings up both .'uestions, which we will consider in their order.
1. The statutes of the Territory distinguish between original.
and ancillary attachments. Sections 2686 and 2721 of the Compiled Laws of New Mexico. There is. no provisio for an alias
attachment, and it was hence concluded by the Supreme Codurt
of the Territory that an alias attachment was not authorized,
and that a judgment dependent thereon was void and could be
attacked collaterally: -The procedure in attachment is provided for. in chpter II of the Compiled Laws of New Mexico,
§§ 2686 to 2737, both inclusive. A summary of the applicable
1
sections is inserted in the margin.
I SEC. 2686. Creditors whose demands amount to $100 or more may sue
their debtors in the District Court by'attachment, when, among other cases,
the debtor is not a resident of or does not reside in the Territory, or ha.
concealed himself,' or absconded, or absented himself from his usual place

CRARY v. DYE.
208 U. S.

517

Opinion of the Court.

There is no provision for an alias attachment, .and we think.
the implication of the statute is against it, certainly against it
except upon filing a new affidavit and bond afid -a.new publiof abode, "so that the ordinary process of the law cannot be .passed upon
him."
SEC. 2690. A creditor 'wishing* to sue his debtor by attachment may
place in the clerk's office a petition or othr "lawful- statements" of his
cause of action and file an affidavit and bond, and thereupon he "may sue'
out an original attachment" against the property of the debtor.
Sc. 2691. An affidavit must be made by the plaintiff, or by some person
for him,-stating that the defendant is indebted to plaintiff and the amount'
of the indebtedness and on what account, and the existence of one or more
of the causes mentionedin section 2686.
SES. 2692, 2694. A bond shall be executed by the plaintiff, the penalty
of which and the sufficiency of the sureties shall be approved by the clerk,
*and shall be conditioned that the plaintiff shall prosecute the action without
delay, and with effect, and, to quote from the statute "refund of sums of
money that may be adjudged to be refunded to the defendant or garnishee
by reason of this auachment, or any process of. judgment thereon." The
clerk is directed to indorse his approval on the bond "and 'the same, together with the affidavit and petition or other lawful statement of the
cause of action, shall be filed 'before an attachment shall be issued."
. SEcs. 2696, 2697. Original writs of attachment shall
be directed to the
sheriff of the proper county, commanding him, to execute the same, "with
a clause of'the nature and to the effect of an ordinary citation, to answer
'the action of the plaintiff." And shall be issued and returned in like manner
as ordinary writs of citation, and when the defendant is cited to answer the
action the like proceedings shall be had between H~im and the plaintiff as
in ordinary actionfsor contracts, and a general judgment may be rendered
for or against the defendant.
SEc. 2701. When the defendant cannot be cited and his property 'and
effects shall be attached, if he do iot appear and aftswer to the action at
the return term of'the writ, within the first two days thereof, the court shall
order a publication to be made, statiAg the amount of the plaintiff's demand'and notifying him that'his property has been attached, and that
unless he appear at the next term judgment will be rendered against him
and his property sold to satisfy the same. Publication in a newspaper is
directed.
Section 2702 enlarges section 2701, and provides that the law of the
Territory in 'regard to attachments is so amended that where the defendant cannot personally be served with-the process and shall have no place
of residence in the Territory, and the property of the defendant shall have
been attached in tim,) to -make the necessary publication as now re-quired
by law, the officer excuting the process, or the agent or 'attorney of the
plaintiff in the case, is authorized to make publication of notice to.the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opipion of the Court.

208 U. S.

*cation of notice. We have seen that an affidavit and bond are
required and the proceedings are that when a defendant cannot be cited and his property shall be attached, if he did not
appear within the first two days of the return texln'of the writ
the court shall'order publication to be made stating the amount
of the demand, that his property has been attached and tOat
unless he appears at the next term jhdgment will be rendered
against 'him and his property'(property attached, 1 2703) sold
to satisfy the same. In other, words,the attachment must
precede the publication and constitutes the ground of publication. The summons to the defendant is through his property
and does tiot extend beyond, it. The only consequenceof his
default is the sale. of the property attached--not some other
property or property attached subsequently to publication.
The publication cannot be ordered until the execution of the
writ of attaclhment and its return. Section 2701.' And to the
same effect, as we have seen, in §2702.
It is,. however, contended by plaintiffs in error 'that subsection 24 of §2685 prescribed the procedure of publication of
summons, not g§2701, 2702, and that Subsection 24 provides
that upon filing, a swbrn pleading or affidavit showing cause for'
fendant in such attachment in the manner prescribed by law,. which shall
.have the same force and cffect to.compel the appearance of.the defendant
.as if such publication had been in conformity to an order of the court, and
upon proof of the publication being mad6 to the court plaintiff may proceed,
in the case as if the'process had been served personally upon.the defendant.
S .c 2703. Judgment by 'default may be entred, but the judgnient shall

only biiid the property attached.

SEc. 2707. A defendant'may contest the truth of the'affidavit, and if 'he
succeeds the action is dismissed.,
8Ends. 2713, 2714, 2715. Where the debt exceeds the sum of $100 the'
creditor has an election of suing out the attachment, either from the dig'
trict court or from the probate court of the county inwhich the suit is
brought,, by filing affidavit and bond with the clerk of such court. The
form of the affidavit and bond is given, and it is required -in its cn'dition
to tecite "'thato whereas the above-named A. B. has this day sued out an
attachment," etc. Ancillary attchments are provided for in section 2721,
and may be issued.in a pending suit "when. the summons againstthe de-,
fendant has been.returnedL Executed."

'

CRARY v. DYE.
208 U. S.

.519

Opinion of the Court.

publication the clerk shall give notice of the pendency of the
action in some newspaper published in the county where the
action is pending, which notice shall contain the names of the
parties to the cause,'.the court in which it is pending and a
statement of the general objects of the action, and shall notify
the defendant that unless he enters his appearance before the
day named therein judgment will be -rendered against him by
default. If this contention be true it is difficult to account for
§§ 2701, 27.02, and the scheme provided for the commencement
of actions by attachment.' Nor do we think the contention is
supported by the fact that by subsection 175 of § 2685 it -is
provided that the act "shall not affect actions of replevin or
writs of attachment, except as to the form of action," and the
amendment subsequently made excepting from the operation
of § 2685, "proceedings by attachment." The amendment was
made, no doubt, to put the meaning of § 175 beyond any controversy. Besides, subsection 179 provides that "the former
practice in law and equity shall be retained in all cases and
proceedings not comprehended within the terms and intention
of this code."
But even if plaintiffs in error be right about subsection 24,
an alla attachment would not thereby be justified. The Sup~eme Court of the Territory has expressly. decided that. an
-alias attachment is not authorized, and we have recently decided that the views of the local courts are very persuasive of
the construction of the local statutes.
In the pending cause a petition in the attachment suit was
filed
in the 1898,
District Court of the county of Lincoln on the fifth
of March,
and on the same day an affidavit
was filed
stating that the defendant could not be served "in the ordinary
way or in any. way except by publication." A writ of attachment was issued on the eighth of March. The sheriff made his
return thereon on the sixteenth, certifying that he had levied
upon andattaceied certain real estate, which was described, and
"that the defendant, Benj rin H. Dye, is not in my county
-and supposed to be in the State of Ohio."

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

The record shows an alias attachment issued on the eleventh
-of May, 1898. The return of the sheriff shows that the alias
writ came to his hands on the twenty-seventh of May, and that
he levied the same on the twenty-eighth of May, on the mining
claim now in controversy.
The first publication of'the noticewas on the seventeenth
of March, 1898, and the last on the fourteenth of April, 1898.
Pasted to the affidavit stating those facts is a paper-headed
"Notice of Suit," by which Benjamin H. Dye is notified "that
a suit of assumpsit, by attachment has been commenced against
him," and that unless he enter his appearance on the fourth
of June, 1898, judgment would be rendered against him in
said cause by default. The record contains no other publication or notice, but it leaves no doubt that it was upon that
publication the default of the defendant was based. This is
established by the motion for judgment, filed by the attorney
in the case, which alleges service by publication and that the
appearance day was June 4, 1898. This motion was filed
August 19, 1898, but proof of publication was not filed until
December 31, the, day judgment was taken. The judgment
recites that the cause coming on to be heard, "itis considered
that the defendant is in default for failure to answer, and,
therefore, the court hears the evidence of plaintiff and assesses
the damages on the two causes of action contained in the complaint at $143. And the court finds that the grounds of attachment are well taken and- true in. effect, and the defendant,
having failed to deny same, it is ordered by the court, considered
and adjudged that the attachment herein be sustained."
The record shows only one affidavit and bond, but it is contended by plaintiffs in error that even if it be considered necessary that another 'affidavit and bond should have been filed
to justify the alias writ it must be presumed that they were
filed in the absence of evidence to the contrary; that the mere
silence of the record is sufficient. To support the contention
Voorhees v. United States Bank, 10 Pet. 449, and Cooper v.
Reynolds, 10 Wail. 308, are cited. But if a presumption may

CRARY v. DYE.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be entertained as to another affidavit and bond a presumptioncannot be entertained that another publication succeeded the
alias attachment.. The record shows the reverse. The publication was complete before the alias attachment was issued, and,
therefore, the attachment referred to in the notice was the first
attachment, not the alias attachment. As we have said, the
attachment must precede- the publication. The attachment
virtually commences the action, the publication is the summons
to the defendant, giving the court jurisdiction to apply the
property attached to the satisfaction of the plaintiffs' demand.
It follows, therefore, that the court had no jurisdiction to
render the judgment relied on and that the plaintiffs in error
acquired no title through sale under it.
2.. The principle of estoppel is well settled. It precludes a
person from denying what he has said or the implication from
his silence or conduct upon which another has acted. There
must, however, be some intended deception in the conduct or
declarations, or such gross negligence as to amount to constructive fraud. Brant v. Virginia Coal & Iron Co., 93 U. S.
326; Hobbs v. McLean, 117 U. S. 567. And in respect to the
title of real property the party claiming to have been influenced. by the conduct or declarations must have not only
been destitute of knowledge of the true state of the title, but
also of any convenient and available means of acquiring knowledge. Where the condition of the title is known to both parties, or both have the same means of ascertaining the truth,
there can be no estoppel. Brant v. Virginia Coal & Iron Co.,
supra. These principles are expressed and illustrated by cases
in the various text books upon equitable rights and remedies.
Does the conduct relied Upon in the case at bar satisfy these
principles?
The property was sold by the sheriff February 18, 1899, to
Jones Taliaferro. On June 5, 1900, he leased the property to
H. C. Crary and E. Heiniman; giving them an option to purchase. They went into possession and discovered by. their
labor upon the property a vein of' rich gold-bearng ore in June

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

and later in August. They subsequently purchased the property .under their contract, paying therefor the sum of $1,500.
Dye returned to the Territory in the latter part of April, 1899,
but took no steps to ascertain the condition of the attachment
proceedings-indeed assumed or believed them to be valid, for
he declared to several persons that his interest in the property
h1ad gone to pay a debt and that he considered it well sold.
One of the persons to whom he made the declarations communicated them to Crary and Heiniman. And on the twentyfifth of October, Mr. Heiniman testified. that Dye visited the
mine,"'and while there, in the Vresence of Mr; Alexander and
Mr. .Crary, I told him that-I was about to make the payment for
the property .in 'full, and I asked him if he knew of any con-

flicting: claim or any other claims on the Compromise. He
immediately answered there was. The Scranton claim on the
west took off one hundred feet, andihe said as to other claims
* there would .be 'nobody but myself.. And he.says I have allowed- all my time to- lapse and I have no claim whatever.
With that he wished me success, -and hoped that it would prove
to be a good mine. 'He says if it does, it is bound to benefit
m ebecause I own an interest in theLittle Nell claim,just north
of you, which isonly 155 feet north of the Compromise shaft."

To these statements the witness said he expressed his gratificafion-that all were working "in harmony in the camp," and
that Dye-remarked Curther: "I wish you the best. I hope you
will make 'a million." And he testified that if Dye had told
him not to make payment under his contract, or that he was
going to try to'recover the mine,. the witness would not have
made the 'payment. And further, he first learned of Dye's
intention to make a claim by the service in the suit of the
papers by the sheriff, and that Dye had not in any of his visits'
intimated that he had a claim against the mine, or of his intention to assert a claim or give warning of- any suit. "He
always expressed himself, while. visiting the 'mine, that it was
one of the brightest prospects in the eamp and that he was
glad" -that witness was one of the owners. Crary also testified

CRARY v. DYE..
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to conversations with Dye, the first being a few days after ore
was "struck" in the mine, although witness had seen Dye
frequently and Dye knew witness was working the mine. This
conversation need not be given at length. It took place %'hile
witness was showing Dye the mine and the work which had
been done preceding the discovery of ore. Dye said that he
had owned the property, knew of the ore in the mouth of an
old tunnel, "and had taken ore out of it, but did not.regard
it of sufficient value to warrant working it; that he had allowed
his time to expire," and hoped that witness and Heiniman
would do well on it; "that he made no claim to it, as le owned
the property on the other side of the gulch; and if they could
get good ore there it would make his Little Nell property more
valuable." And the witness a-.id: "I felt elated over the discovery of this ore, and both of us talked a good deal and both
of us f lt good." In corroboration of Heiniman the witness
testified:
"Mr. Dye was there, and Mr. Heiniman asked him, I can
hardly remember the exact words, but in substance whether
the title to this property, the Compromise mine, was all right.
Mr. Dye- replied that there was some drawn ground between
it and. the Scranton, and it on the side that would belong tq
the Scranton. It was an overlap; that there could be no other
claimant, unless it was him, and he had allowed his time to
lapse and made no further claims to the property. He also
added' 'I hope you will do well with the property, and make
lots of money out of it.'"
He further testified that he did not think he would have
completed the payment for the, property if he had learned at
that time that Mr. Dye expected- to assert any claim to it,
and further; "We done the work, and paid the payment on
the repeated assurance of Mr. Dye that he made no claim to
it, and would not have touched the property in the first place
had we known that he made a claim or had a claim." The conversation between Dye and Heiniman has some corroboration
from one of the employs of the mine who was.working nearby.

OCTOBER -TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

208 U. S.

It is manifest that Dye took for granted that the attachment
proceedings were good and', indeed, declared it-declared it before the discovery of gold on the claim-declared it afterwards
when he knew that Crary and Heiniman were expending considerable sums of money upon the claim and had money yet
to pay upon it. Such declarations were natural enough before
the discovery of gold; they were not natural after the discovery
of gold-a discovery which apparently proclaimed the mine to
be one of great richness. Let it be conceded, therefore, that
his inattention to .his rights was grossly negligent; that his admissions of their loss were grossly -negligent, and so far might
satisfy one of the conditions of estoppel. But another, and
the consummating condition, is that Crary and Heiniman must
have been without equal means of information.,. This, however, was not their situation. They had means of information
equal to those of Dye, and nothing was purposely done or said
to divert them from inquiry. The only source of information
was the record, and that they had examined and took legal advice upon its sufficJency. They testify, however, that they
also relied upon the declarations of Dye, as well as the advice
received, and that they would not have expended what they
had expended (four or five thousand dollars) or made the final
payment ($1,500)' but for those declarations. The letter of
this testimony must be weighed against other considerations.
The declarations of Dye. were but the expression of an opinion
of the lcgal effect of the attachment proceedings: made strong,
perhaps, from the right he had to attack the proceedings directly, but it is hard to think Dye's declarations were as determinative as other considerations.
The lease and option to purchase the mine were not induced
by anything done or said by Dye. In taking them Heiniman
and Crary acted .upon their own judgment, based upon the
prospects-or chance of value, and their judgment was luckily
or skillfully exerci'sdd. Within a few days ore was discovered.
In the latter- part. of August the "big strike" was made that
demonstrated the mine to be of great value. This value must

CRARY v. DYE.
208 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be considered in estimating the relative strength of the inducements upon which Crary and Heiniman acted. When
they took the lease and option to purchase the mine it was considered by Dye as worth no more than his debt to Taliaferro,
to wit, $112 and the costs Of the attachment suit. Taliaferro
would have been glad to have taken $500 for it, Heiniman
testified. At the time this suit was brought, December, 1900,
six months after the lease, it was worth $100,000, according
to Heiniman's testimony; $50,000 or $60,000 according to other
estimates. This value they might acquire by the payment of
$1,500. They would certainly lose it if they did not make such
payment. The case, therefore, is very simple. It is a case of
mining property bought upon speculation and title to which
came through a sheriff's sale, the validity of which sale was
either assumed or risked; the development of the mine undertaken in like speculation, but continued in certainty of reward
within three days by the discovery of what Heiniman calls in
his testimony "the large ore-the pay ore chute." Whether
this was the real discovery or that of August following which
finally revealed the richness of the mine, matters not. Within
a few days there was evidence of value and inducements to
the expenditures testified to. Within four months a property
which was sold for afew hundred dollars was estimated by
mining experts to be worth $100,000. Such inducement existing for Heiniman and Crary to complete their contract, we
are asked to believe that they were misled by the declarations of
Dye to action detrimental to their interest. We are unable to
yield to the contention. That they felt satisfaction at the declarations may be. That they labored an extra day or spent an
extra dollar upon the faith of them the record fails to establish.
Another contention remains to be noticed. Dye owned fivesixths of the mine; the other one-sixth was owned by the Apex
Gold Mining Company. Dye did not do the assessment work
upon the mine for 1898, and the work was done by the niining
c6mpany. There was an attempt at forfeiture of Dyc'k interest,
but the notice of.publication was not given by the mining com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Codrt.

208 U. S.

pany but by one T. C.Johns, who described himself as coowner
with Dye. Johns was the manager of the company. Subsequently Taliaferro paid to one T. R. Walsh for Johns Dye's
proportion of the expenditure for the work. Dye did not do or
offer to do any assessment work for 1898.
Upon these facts plaintiff in error seemed to have contended
in the Supreme Court of the Territory that Dye had forfeited
his rights to Johns, considered as cobwner with Dye, and that
Taliaferro by paying Johns became substituted to his rights.
To this contention the Supreme Court- made answer that a
forfeiture had not been effecteaI, because Johns was not a coowner with Dye, but that the Apex Mining Company was, and
that the company had not given notice of forfeiture. Plaintiffs in error now change their contention or the form of it.
They now contend that -after Taliaferro purchased the property at sheriff's sale, and before the forfeiture occurred under
the advertisement against Dye by. his co-tenant Taliaferro
paid to the co6wner or its agent the amount claimed, and
thereby protected himself under § 31261 of the Compiled Laws

of New Mexico, 1897, and ended also Dye's interest. But this
contention involves again the validity of the sheriff's sale and
the attitude of Dye to the sale. Besides, the liability for the
assessment work had not taken the form of a lien.
It is further contended that an undivided. interest in a mining claim can be abandoned, and that Dye's acquiescence in
the sheriff's sale constituted an abandonment of the claim and
an election to accept the sale as a disposition of his property.
We do not concur in the view that Dye's acts constituted an
abandonment of his claim.
Judgment affirmed.
l When any 'property shall be sold subject to liens and encumbrances,
the purchaser may pay the liens and encumbrances and hold the property
discharged from all claims of the defendant in execution; but thedefendant
may redeem the property within one year after the sale thereof, paying to
the purchaser, his heirs or assigns, the purchase money with interest. When
redeemed, the purchaser shall have the growing .crops and shall not 'be
responsible for rents and profits, but he shall account for wastes.

