OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

MURPHY

ET AL.

272 U. S.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIFICATE FROr THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 443.

Argued November 24, 1926.-Decided December 6, 1926.

It is declared by the National Prohibition Act, Tit. II, § 21, that
any room, etc., where intoxicating liquor is manufactured, sold, or
kept in violation of the statute, is a common nuisance, and maintaining it is made a misdemeanor punishable by fine or imprisonment, or both. Section 22 authorizes suits in equity by the United
States, in which such nuisances shall be abated, and in which the
Court may enjoin occupancy of the place, for one year, or require
a bond of the owner or occupant. Held:
1. The purpose of the latter section is preventive; abatement of
the nuisance and the injunction are not an additional penalty.
2. Hence, acquittal in a prosecution under § 21, is not a bar to
proceedings under § 22. P. 631.
RESPONSE to questions certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, upon review of a decree abating a nuisance and
closing the place in which it was maintained.
Messrs. Thomas Murphy and Vincent Murphy, pro se,
submitted.

Assistant Attorney General Willebrandt, with whom
Solicitor GeneralMitchell and Mr. Norman J. Morrisson,
Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on the brief,
for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE HOLmEs delivered the opinion of the Court.
Thomas Murphy and Vincent Murphy were tried for
maintaining a nuisance in violation of Section 21, Title II
of the National Prohibition Act, (October 28, 1919, c. 85;
41 St. 305, 314,) and were acquitted. Subsequently the
United States brought a suit in equity to abate the same
alleged nuisance under § 22 of the same Title. At the
trial the defendants proved their former acquittal and

MURPHY v. UNITED STATES.
630

Opinion of the Court.

moved that the bill be dismissed. The District Court
denied the motion and entered a decree abating the
nuisance and enjoining the defendants from occupying
or using the premises for one year. The defendants
appealed. The Circuit Court of Appeals certified to
this Court the question whether the former acquittal
is a bar.
By § 21 any room, house, or place where intoxicating
liquor is manufactured, sold, or kept in violation of the
statute is declared to be a common nuisance, and maintaining it is made a misdemeanor punishable by fine, imprisonment, or both. Then follows the section under
which the defendants now are sued, authorizing a suit in
equity for an injunction against the nuisance as defined.
A temporary writ restraining the continuance of it until
the conclusion of the trial is to be issued if it is made to
appear to the satisfaction of the court or judge in vacation that such nuisance exists. It is not necessary for
the court to find that the property was being unlawfully
used at the time of the hearing, but on finding that the
material allegations of the petition are true, the court
'shall order' that no liquor shall be manufactured, sold,
or stored, &c., in the place; and upon judgment that the
nuisance be abated, ' may order' that the place shall not
be occupied or used for one year thereafter, but may permit it to be occupied if the owner or occupant gives a
bond for not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, that
intoxicating liquor will not thereafter be manufactured,
sold, or kept, &c., therein, &c.
The appellants say that an additional penalty is imposed by § 22, and that after they have been acquitted
of the crime they cannot be punished for it in a second
proceeding. Coffey v. United States, 116 U. S. 430. But
although the contention is plausible it seems to us unsound. It is true, especially if the premises are closed for

632

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

a year, that a pecuniary detriment is inflicted, but that
is true of a tax, and sometimes it is hard to say how a
given detriment imposed by the law shall be regarded.
Hodge v. Muscatine County, 196 U. S. 276, 279, 280. St.
Louis Compress Co. v. Arkansas, 260 U. S. 346, 348. The
Creole, 2 Wall. Jr. 485. The mere fact that it is imposed in consequence of a crhne is not conclusive. A
government may endeavor to prevent certain facts and
yet provide that if they happen they shall yield as much
revenue as they might have yielded if lawful. United
States v. One Ford Coupe Automobile, ante, p. 321. In
like manner it may provide for the abatement of a nuisance whether or not the owners of it have been guilty of
a crime. The only question is what the twenty-second
section is intended to accomplish. It appears to us that
the purpose is prevention, not a second punishment that
could not be inflicted after acquittal from the first. This
seems to us to be shown by the whole scope of the section
as well as by the unreasonableness of interpreting it as
intended to accomplish a plainly unconstitutional result.
The imperative words go only to the immediate stopping
of what is clearly a nuisance. The permissive words
allow closing for a year (a not unreasonable time to secure
a stoppage of the unlawful use, United States v. Boynton,
297 Fed. 261, 267,) and show the purpose of that by providing the alternative of a bond conditioned against such
uses.
If we are right as to the purpose of § 22 the decree in
the present case did not impose a punishment for the
crime from which the appellants were acquitted by the
former judgment. That it did impose a punishment is
the only ground on which the former judgment would be
a bar. For although the parties to the two cases are the
same, the judgment in the criminal case does not make
the issues in the present one res judicata, as is sufficiently
explained in Stone v. United States, 167 U. S. 178 and

UNITED STATES v. McELVAIN.
630

Statement of the Case.

Chantangco v. Abaroa, 218 U. S. 476. The Government
may have failed to prove the appellants guilty and yet
may have been and may be able to prove that a nuisance
exists in the place. Our answer to the question certified
agrees with the conclusion of the Supreme Court of Kansas in a carefully considered case, State v. Roach, 83
Kan. 606.
Answer: No.
UNITED STATES v. McELVAIN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 266.

Submitted October 21, 1926.-Decided December 6, 1926.

1. An indictment, under § 37 of the Criminal Code, for a conspiracy
to defraud the United States in respect of its internal revenue by
making a false income and profits tax return, is not subject to the
statute of limitations for offenses "arising under the internal revenue laws," (Act of July 5, 1884, as amended), but to the three
year limitation imposed by Rev. Stats. § 1044. P. 638.
2. A proviso was added to Rev. Stats. § 1044, by the Act of November
17, 1921, 42 Stat. 220, viz., "That in offenses involving the defrauding or attempts to*defraud the United States or any agency
thereof, whether by conspiracy or not, and in any manner, and
now indictable under any existing statutes, the period of limitation
shall be six years." Held:
(1) The purpose of the proviso is to carve out a special class
of cases, and it must be confined, by a strict construction, to the
cases clearly within its purpose. P. 639.
(2) If the proviso relates to any conspiracies under Crim. Code
§ 37, it is limited to those to commit the substantive offenses which
it covers. It does not apply to a conspiracy to defraud the United
States in respect of internal revenue. P. 639.
Affirmed.

ERROR, under the Criminal Appeals Act, to a judgment
of the District Court sustaining pleas of the statute
of limitations in bar of an indictment for conspiracy

