640

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

WRIGHT v. YNCHAUSTI AND COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.
No. 316. Argued October 28, 1926.-Decided December 13, 1926.
1. A decision of the Insular Collector of Customs, of the Philippine
Islands, ordering that moneys collected and paid under protest, as
customs duties, be refunded upon the ground that the property
assessed was not dutiable under the tariff, is final and conclusive,
unless appealed to the Court of First Instance. P. 644.
2. The Insular Auditor has no power to reexamine the merits of such
a decision by the Insular Collector, and his duty to countersign the
Insular Collector's warrant for the refund, when in due form and
drawn upon an applicable appropriation, is ministerial, and enforceable by mandamus. P. 651.
47 P. I. Rep. 866, affirmed.
CERTIORARI (271 U. S. 652) to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands awarding an
original mandamus, at the suit of Ynchausti & Company,
to compel Wright, the Insular Auditor, to countersign a
warrant drawn by the Insular Collector of Customs in
favor of the firm, for a refund of money erroneously collected as customs duties.

Messrs. L. H. Hedrick and 0. R. McGuire for the
petitioner.

Mr. William H. Lawrence, with whom Messrs. F. TV.
Clements, Lawrence H. Cake, and Alexander Britton were
on the brief, for the respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case was begun by a petition filed by Ynchausti
and Company, January 19, 1925, in the Supreme Court
of the Philippine Islands, under § 2947 of the Compiled
Acts of the Philippine Commission, 1907, for an original

WRIGHT v. YNCHAUSTI & CO.
640

Opinion of the Court.

writ of mandamus directed to Ben F. Wright, Insular
Auditor, to require him to countersign a warrant for
159,9G0 pesos drawn by the Insular Collector of Customs
in favor of Ynchausti and Company. The Insular
Auditor filed an answer, to which the petitioner demurred, on the ground that the facts stated therein were
not sufficient to constitute a defense. The Supreme Court
of the Philippine Islands sustained the demurrer and
ordered that the writ issue as prayed. This Court granted
a certiorari April 26, 1926. 271 U. S. 652.
Ynchausti and Company were the agents and operators
of the steamship Venus, a vessel engaged in the coastwise
trade in the Philippine Islands. They sent her to Hong
Kong, a Crown colony of Great Britain, there to receive
certain heavy repairs and construction work. When the
vessel returned to the Philippines, the Insular Collector
of Customs, who is Collector at Manila and who has subordinate collectors at other ports, assessed a customs duty
of 159,960 pesos on account of the repairs. Ynchausti
and Company paid the duty, but filed a protest with the
Collector, on the ground that the repairs were free from
duty under the law. The Collector deposited the money
in the Insular Treasury. Upon a hearing of the protest
and an examination of evidence, the Collector reversed
his ruling, rendered a decision sustaining the protest and
ordered a refund of the money paid, under a permanent
appropriation for such purposes. A copy of the Collector's decision was sent to the Secretary of Finance and the
Insular Auditor. The Secretary of Finance did not certify
a desire to appeal from the Insular Collector's decision to
the Court of First Instance within fifteen days thereafter,
as authorized by law, although the Insular Auditor urged
it. After the time for an appeal had expired, a warrant
was drawn by the Insular Collector in favor of Ynchausti
and Company for the amount of the duty paid. Upon
presentation of the warrant to the Insular Auditor for his

642

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

countersignature, required by the Administrative Code of
the Islands to be attached to every warrant, he withheld it.
By §§ 614, 616, 621 of the Insular Administrative Code
of 1917, revenue funds are not to be withdrawn from
the Insular Treasury except upon warrant. Warrants
are to be drawn upon the Insular Treasury by the Chief
of the Bureau or office having control of the appropriation or fund against which such warrants are chargeable,
and are to be made payable to the creditor to whom the
money is due. No Insular warrant is to be paid by the
Treasurer until countersigned by the Auditor. By § 3920
of the Compiled Laws of the Philippines of 1907, a permanent appropriation is provided for refund of duties
paid into the Treasury in excess of the final liquidation
and the amount legally due.
The history of the legislation, in respect of classification
for duties on repairs of Philippine vessels made in a foreign country, is as follows:
The Philippine Tariff Act of Congress of August 5, 1909,
36 Stat. 130, c. 8, § 8, provided:
"That the rates of duties to be collected on articles,
goods, wares, or merchandise imported into the Philippine
Islands, or going into said islands from the United States,
or any of its possessions except as otherwise provided in
this Act, shall be as follows: . . .
"Par. 200. Boats, launches, lighters, and other water
craft, set up or knocked down, imported into the Philippine Islands, and cost of repairs made in foreign countries
to vessels, or to parts thereof, documented for the Philippine coastwise trade or plying exclusively in Philippine
waters and for which repairs adequate facilities are
afforded in the Philippine Islands, fifty per centum ad
valorem.
"Provided, That upon proof satisfactory to the collector of customs that adequate facilities are not afforded

WRIGHT v. YNCHAUSTI & CO.
640

Opinion of the Court.

in the Philippine Islands for such repairs, the same shall
be subject to the provisions of paragraph three hundred
and forty-eight of this Act."
Paragraph 348 is part of § 11 of the same act, and
declares that certain imports shall be free of duty upon
the importation thereof into the Philippine Islands. One
is described as follows:
"Repairs to vessels documented in the Philippine Islands or regularly plying in Philippine waters, made in
foreign countries, upon proof satisfactory to the collector
of customs that adequate facilities for such repairs are
not afforded in the Philippine Islands."
This Tariff Act was amended by the Philippine Legislature under the authority of the Act of Congress of
August 29, 1916, 39 Stat. 545, c. 416, usually called the
Jones Act, by § 10 of which it is provided:
"That while this Act provides that the Philippine government shall have the authority to enact a tariff law
the trade relations between the islands and the United
States shall continue to be governed exclusively by laws
of the Congress of the United States: Provided, That
tariff acts or acts amendatory to the tariff of the Philippine Islands shall not become law until they shall receive
the approval of the President of the United States."
Acting under this authority, the Philippine Legislature
passed an amendment to the Tariff Act, entitled No.
2872, which was approved by the President of the United
States on November 24, 1919. That Act amended § 200,
already quoted, by continuing the duty on repairs at 50
per cent. until December 31, 1924, and then reducing
the rate to 25 per cent. thereafter, and changed the
proviso as follows:
"Provided, That upon proof satisfactory to the collector of customs that adequate facilities are not afforded
in the Philippine Islands for such repairs, so that the
work can not be done there reasonably economically and

644

OCTOBER TERIM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U.S.

within a reasonable time, in the judgment of said collector, such repairs shall be subject to the provisions of
paragraph three hundred and forty-eight of this Act."
The question here presented is whether the Philippine
Auditor may consider and reverse the ruling of the Insular Collector in respect of the refund of the duties paid
on these repairs, or whether the ruling of the Insular
Collector under the circumstances is final and the necessary countersigning of the warrant drawn by the Insular
Collector is merely a ministerial duty subjecting the Auditor to mandamus.
The Act of Congress of August 29, 1916, to provide a
more autonomous government for the Philippines, known
as the Jones Act (39 Stat. 545, c. 416, § 24), describes
the present powers and duties of the Insular Auditor
in part as follows:
"That there shall be appointed by the President an
auditor, who shall examine, audit, and settle all accounts
pertaining to the revenues and receipts from whatever
source of the Philippine government and of the provincial
and municipal governments of the Philippines, including
trust funds and funds derived from bond issues; and
audit, in accordance with law and administrative regulations, all expenditures of funds or property pertaining
to or held in trust by the government or the Provinces
or municipalities thereof. He shall perform a like duty
with respect to all government branches.
"He shall keep the general accounts of the government and preserve the vouchers pertaining thereto.
"It shall be the duty of the auditor to bring to the
attention of the proper administrative officer expenditures
of funds or property which, in his opinion, are irregular,
unnecessary, excessive or extravagant. ...
"The administrative jurisdiction of the auditor over
accounts, whether of funds or property, and all vouchers
and records pertaining thereto, shall be exclusive. With

WRIGHT v. YNCHAUSTI & CO.
640

Opinion of the Court.

the approval of the Governor General, he shall from time
to time make and promulgate general or special rules
and regulations not inconsistent with law covering the
method of accounting for public funds and property, and
funds and property held in trust by the government or
any of its branches: . . .
"The decisions of the auditor shall be final and conclusive upon the executive branches of the government,
except that appeal therefrom may be taken by the party
aggrieved or the head of the department concerned within
one year, in the manner hereinafter prescribed. The
auditor shall, except as hereinafter provided, have like
authority as that conferred by law upon the several auditors of the United States and the Comptroller of the
United States Treasury and is authorized to communicate directly with any person having claims before him
for settlement, or with any department, officer, or person
having official relations with his office.
In the administration of his duty, he is authorized to
summon witnesses, administer oaths and to take evidence
and enforce the attendance of witnesses.
Section 25 provides:
"That any person aggrieved by the action or decision
of the auditor in the settlement of his account or claim
may, within one year, take an appeal in writing to the
Governor General, which appeal shall specifically set forth
the particular action of the auditor to which exception is
taken, with the reason and authorities relied upon for
reversing such decision.
"If the Governor General shall confirm the action of
the auditor, he shall so indorse the appeal and transmit
it to the auditor and the action shall thereupon be final
and conclusive. Should the Governor General fail to
sustain the action of the auditor, he shall forthwith transmit his grounds of disapproval to the Secretary of War,
together with the appeal and the papers necessary to a

646

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

proper understanding of the matter. The decision of the
Secretary of War in such case shall be final and conclusive."
The argument is that, as the subject matter here is a
claim against the Insular Treasury, it is necessarily exclusively within the broad powers of the Auditor to pass
on it, and that his duty to countersign the warrant
for it includes this discretion, which can only be reviewed
by the Governor General and the Secretary of War. There
is no doubt that, from the beginning of the civil government in the Philippines, established by the President as
Commander-in-Chief, in 1901, it was his intention to give
to the Secretary of War the means of supervising the disbursements of the funds in the Philippine Treasury and
the allowance of claims upon them through the Insular
Auditor, who was to be appointed by the Secretary of War.
Presidential Order, February 23, 1901, Act No. 00, Public
Laws Enacted by the Philippine Commission, vol. 1, p.
160. There was substituted by the Philippine Commission for Act. No. 90, the Accounting Act, No. 1402, in
1905, op. cit., vol. 5, p. 58, and the new Accounting Act,
No. 1792, in 1907, op. cit., vol. 6, p. 475. Then followed
the Administrative Act of 1916, by the Philippine Legislature, which created a Board of Audits, with the Auditor
at its head; and this was repeated in the Administrative
Code of 1917, c. 26, enacted after the passage of the Jones
Act. The scope of duties of the Auditor as conferred in
Act No. 90 is substantially the same as in the acts which
have followed it. It was said in all these acts, including the Jones Act, that the Insular Auditor should have
the same authority as the several auditors of the United
States and the Comptroller of the Treasury.
Parallel with this legislation, however, was the Customs
Administrative Act of 1902, No. 355, Public Laws Enacted by the Philippine Commission, vol. 1, p. 788, which
organized the Bureau of Customs on February 6, 1902,

WRIGHT v. YNCHAUSTI & CO.
640

Opinion of the Court.

very shortly before the passage by Congress of an act
temporarily to provide revenue for the Philippine Islands, March 8, 1902, 32 Stat. 54, c. 140, confirming the
Tariff Act passed by the Commission in September, 1901,
No. 230, Public Laws Enacted by the Philippine Commission, vol. 1, p. 581. By that Act, and by all subsequent amending acts on the subject, collectors of customs were given the duty of liquidating the duties, of
determining abatements for manifest clerical error, and
for loss or damage of goods, and of promptly granting
refunds as allowances or abatements, and those claims
thus allowed by the collectors were to be certified to the
Auditor of the Islands, with their recommendations and
with all necessary papers and documents. This was provided evidently to permit prompt correction of clerical
and other obvious errors by the collector. The Auditor
was directed to audit the same and draw the warrant for
the refund so forwarded in settlement therefor if found
correct. The foregoing is embodied in existing law in
the Administrative Act of 1917, and it may be that in
such a case, by reason of the language used, the Insular
Auditor is given discretion to withhold his approval of
a refund thus granted by the Collector. We do not find
it necessary to decide that question and only mention it
in order to make clear the question before us and what
we are deciding.
What we are here dealing with is, not clerical or other
obvious errors in collections, but controversies over the
classification of articles for duty under the Tariff Act,
and the determination of the duties to be assessed upon
such articles by the Collector, accompanied and contested by a filed protest of the importer. In such a case,
a different system has been provided from the beginning,
1902. By §§ 286, 287, 288 and 289 of the Customs Administrative Act of 1902, provision was made for the clas-

648

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

sification of the imports and the fixing of duties by the
Collector, and their collection, a protest by a tax payer
who objected, an appeal on that protest to the Insular
Collector, an appeal from his decision by the defeated tax
payer to a court created by the Act, called a Court of
Customs Appeals, which conclusively decided the question. This law also provided that if the decision of the
Insular Collector was adverse to the government, the
Secretary of Finance and Justice, the head of the Department, might within a certain time initiate an appeal to
the Court of Customs Appeals. Thereafter the personnel
of the Court of Customs Appeals was changed in Act
No. 864, September 2, 1903, Public Laws Enacted by the
Philippine Commission, vol. 3, p. 3, and an appeal given
upon the disagreement between the Judges of the Court
of Customs Appeals to the Supreme Court.
By Act No. 1405, adopted by the Commission October
13, 1905, Public Laws Vol. 5, p. 75, the Court of Customs Appeals was abolished and its duties were transferred to the Court of First Instance, with an appeal to
the Supreme Court, and these changes were all embodied
in the compilation of the statutes made in 1907 and have
been continued since, in the Administrative Acts of 1916
and 1917. No change in the administration of the Bureau
of Customs or the Bureau of Audits was made by the
Philippine Tariff Act of Congress, of August 5, 1909, 36
Stat. 130, c. 8, which supplanted the Tariff Act of the
Philippine Commission of 1902.
The present procedure fixed by Philippine law for
raising the question of the legality of classification for
duty on importations and of the collection of such duties
is to be found in the Administrative Code of the Islands
of 1917, already cited, made necessary by the passage of
the Jones Act.
The relevant sections of the Code follow:
"Section 1383. The party aggrieved by the decision of
the Insular Collector in any matter brought before him

WRIGHT v. YNCHAUSTI & CO.
640

Opinion of the Court.

upon protest or by his action or decision in any case of
seizure may procure the cause to be removed for review
into the Court of First Instance sitting in the city of
Manila, in the manner and within the period hereinafter
prescribed.
"Unless the proper party in interest shall procure the
cause to be thus removed into court for review, the action
or decision of the Insular Collector shall be final and conelusive against him.
"Section 1384. The removal of a cause into court may
be had at the instance of the protesting party, or, in case
of seizure, at the instance of the owner or agent of the
seized property. If the decision of the Insular Collector
is adverse to the Government the cause may also be removed in the manner hereinafter specified, by order of
the Department Head.
" Section 1386. Upon making any decision which may
be removed upon the order of the Department Head, the
Insular Collector shall immediately transmit a copy of
such decision to hhn and also to the Insular Anditor;
and if within fifteen days thereafter the Department
Head shall certify that in his opinion the decision ought
to be revised by the Court of First Instance in the city
of Manila, it shall be the duty of the Insular Collector,
upon notification thereof, to transmit the original record
to said court in the same manner as upon removal by a
party other than the Government."
This history shows that, since the beginning of civil
government in the Philippines, the policy of the Island
Government has been to take out of the jurisdiction of the
Auditor contested claims for refund of duties based on
protest, and involving a re-examination of the action of
the local Collectors of Customs by the Insular Collector
in assessing such duties. The decisions of the Insular
Collector, with respect to refunds of this class, were
administratively final, but appeals from his conclusions,

650

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

if duly taken, became the subject of judicial examination,
at first by the Court of Customs Appeals, and afterwards
by the Court of First Instance of the proper jurisdiction,
and by the Supreme Court.
It is thus quite clear that the provision of the Jones
Act and of acts which preceded it, for review of the
decisions of administrative officers by the Insular Auditor
from which appeals could be taken to the Governor General of the Islands, and thence to the Secretary of War,
was not intended to include decisions upon protested
classification of duties under the Tariff Act.
The unchanged policy as to such decisions is, that appeal
from the Insular Collector's action should be left to the
taxpayer, on the one hand, and to the head of the Finance
Department, on the other, and, if taken, should be considered by the courts; and that, failing such appeal, the
action of the Insular Collector should be final. It would
be incongruous to provide for appeal to the courts at the
instance of either the importer or the head of the department, and, in the absence of such appeal by either, to
have a review by the Auditor. It would delay decision
of the legality of the classification for a year. It would
create two tribunals of appeals in respect of classification
which might cause embarrassing and confusing conflict.
It has not been directly argued, but there has been an
intimation in the argument for the petitioner, that greater
weight is to be attached to the Congressional acts, including the Jones Act, in defining the duties of the Auditor,
than to the provisions of the Customs Administrative Act
of 1902, and of the Administrative Acts of 1916 and 1917,
fixing the duties of the Insular Collector in classification of
duties and appeals to the courts, which were acts only of
the Philippine Commission or the Philippine Legislature
without specific Congressional approval. If there were
a conflict between the two, of course, the Congressional
legislation must control. But conflict is not to be pre-

WRIGHT v. YNCHAUSTI & CO.
640

Opinion of the Court.

sumed because, first, under the Letter of the President in
establishing the Philippine Commission, of date April 7,
1900, Public Acts Enacted by the Philippine Commission,
vol. 1, p. lxiii; second, under the Act of Congress of July
1, 1902, 32 Stat. 691, c. 1369, confirming the prior legislative action of the Philippine Commission and vesting
future legislative power in the Commission and in a subsequent legislature therein provided for, and third, under
the Jones Act, 39 Stat. 545, c. 416, changing somewhat the
form of the Philippine government, all general legislative
power was vested in the Island legislature, with some
exceptions, of which none included the administrative
provisions for collecting the customs revenue. Of course
all such legislation was subject to annulment by Congress, but although the legislative provisions for action
by the Insular Collector of Customs and the courts in
respect of classification of imports and collection of duties
were established in 1902, and continue until to-day, they
have never been disturbed, and have evidently never been
thought by Congress to be in conflict with the powers of
the Auditor.
In view of this legislative history, it is not difficult to
reach a conclusion and to define what the function of the
Auditor of the Islands is in such a case as this. To take
money out of the Treasury on appropriation, a warrant
has to be drawn by the head of the bureau having the
payment of the claim in charge, and the warrant must be
countersigned by the Insular Auditor before it is paid;
but where the Insular Auditor is not vested with administrative discretion to pass upon the merits of the
claim for which the warrant is drawn, his only function
is to determine whether the warrant is drawn by the
proper officer upon the decision of the proper tribunal,
and is applicable to an existing appropriation; and, having been satisfied as to these preliminaries, his duty is
merely ministerial. In this case, having ascertained that

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

the Insular Collector has rendered an opinion that was
final by reason of a failure of either party to appeal to the
court therefrom, it is his duty to countersign the warrant
and such a duty may be controlled by mandamus.
Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 524; Work v. United
States ex rel. McA lester-Edwards Coal Co., 262 U. S. 200;
Work v. United States ex rel. Mosier, 261 U. S. 352.
We may add that such a conclusion is quite in keeping
with the functions of the Auditors of the Treasury and
the Comptroller of the Treasury of the United States,
a comparison which is constantly used in the Philippine
statutes. Neither the Auditors nor the Comptroller of
the Treasury of the United States are vested with authority to decide questions of classification of duties under
tariff acts. Those are considered and disposed of, first by
the Collectors of Customs, then by appeal after written
notice to a Board of General Appraisers, and then by a
review by the Court of Customs Appeals. Act of June
10, 1890, 26 Stat. 131, 136, c. 407, § 12; Act of May 27,
1908, 35 Stat. 403, 406, c. 205, § 3; Act of August 5, 1909,
36 Stat. 11, 98, c. 6, § 28; Act of September 21, 1922, 42
Stat. 858, 970, c. 356, Title IV, § 515. Under certain
limitations a further review may be had in this Court.
Act of August 22, 1914, 38 Stat. 703, c. 267.
The judgment of the Philippine Supreme Court is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. STORRS ET AL.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR TIE
DISTRICT OF UTAH.

No. 95.

Argued November 24, 1926.-Decided December 13, 1926.

A plea to abate an indictment because of the presence of a court
stenographer at the grand jury investigation and of improper participation in the proceedings by the district attorney, does not cease
to be a plea in abatement and become a plea in bar, ithin the

