UNITED STATES v. BRIMS.
542

549

Syllabus.

support as respects the others. Whether this was right
or wrong-as to which we intimate no opinion-it did
not work an amendment of the indictment and was not
even remotely an infraction of the constitutional provision
that "no person shall be held to answer for a capital or
otherwise infamous crime unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury." Goto v. Lane, 265 U. S. 393;
State v. Evans, 40 La. Ann. 216, 218. And see Crain v.
United States, 162 U. S. 625, 636; Hall v. United States,
168 U. S. 632, 638-639. In the case of Ex parte Bain, 121
U. S. 1, on which the accused relies, there was an actual
amendment or alteration of the indictment to avoid an
adverse ruling on demurrer, and the trial was on the
amended charge without a resubmission to a grand jury.
The principle on which the decision proceeded is not
broader than the situation to which it was applied.
We are of opinion that the constitutional questions advanced to secure the direct writ of error are all so wanting in substance that they afford no basis for the writ.
As the writ was allowed before the Act of February 13,
1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, the case must be transferred to
fhe Circuit Court of Appeals under the Act of September
14, 1922, c. 305, 42 Stat. 837, which, although repealed
by the Act of 1925, is to be applied, under the terms of
the saving clause, to proceedings for the review of judgments rendered theretofore.
Transferred to Circuit Court of Appeals.

UNITED STATES v. BRIMS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 212. Argued October 8, 1926.-Decided November 23, 1926.
1. A conspiracy of manufacturers of mill-work, building contractors,
and union carpenters, to check competition from non-union-made

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

mill-work coming from other States, to accomplish which the manufacturers and contractors were to employ only union carpenters,
who would refuse to install the non-union mill-work, is a violation
of the Anti-Trust Act. P. 551.
2. It is a matter of no consequence that the purpose was to shut out
non-union mill-work made within the State as well as that made
without. P. 552.
3. The crime of restraining interstate commerce through combination
is not condoned by inclusion of intrastate commerce as well. P. 553.
4. Upon certiorari, when the grounds of the Circuit Court of Appeals
for reversing the District Court are found erroneous, this Court
may reverse the judgment and remand the case to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for examination of the other assignments of error
which it did not pass upon. P. 553.
6 F. (2d) 98, reversed.
CERTIORARI

(269 U. S. 545) to a judgment of the Cir-

cuit Court of Appeals reversing a conviction under the
Sherman Act.
Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan,with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Messrs. Rush H. Williamson and William D. Whitney, Special Assistants to the
Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Charles Maitland Beattie, with whom Messrs.
Joseph 0. Carson and Robert R. Nevin were on the brief,
for Brims and other respondents designated as Union
Defendants.
Messrs. Robert W. Childs and Albert Fink for the respondents designated as Millmen Defendants, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the Court.

Respondents were charged with engaging in a combination and conspiracy to restrain interstate trade and commerce contrary to inhibitions of the Sherman Act, c. 647,
26 Stat. 209, and were found guilty by a jury. The Cir-

UNITED STATES v. BRIMS.
549

Opinion of the Court.

cuit Court of Appeals reviewed and reversed the judgment of conviction upon the sole ground of fatal variance
between allegation and proof, or failure of proof to support the charge. 6 Fed. (2d) 98. They said"The indictment charged defendants with ' combining
or conspiring to prevent manufacturing plants located
outside of the City of Chicago and in other States than
Illinois from selling and delivering their building material in and shipping the same to said City of Chicago.'
. . . The proof, however, disclosed merely an agreement
between defendants whereby union defendants were not
to work upon nonunion-made millwork. . . The agreement which the defendants entered into merely dealt with
millwork which was the pr6duct of nonunion labor. It
mattered not where the millwork was produced, whether
in or outside of Illinois, if it bore the union label. The
restriction was not against the shipment of millwork into
Illinois. It was against nonunion-made millwork produced in or out of Illinois. We find no evidence which
would support a finding that the agreement embodied in
Article 3 of Section 3 was not the real agreement of the
parties. Wherefore, we conclude there is a fatal variance
and the evidence does not sustain the indictment."
They considered no other objection to the judgment
of conviction, and the cause came here by certiorari because that point seemed to require further examination.
We think it was wrongly decided.
The challenged combination and agreement related to
the manufacture and installation in the City of Chicago
of building material commonly known as millwork, which
includes window and door fittings, sash, baseboard, molding, cornice, etc., etc. The respondents were manufacturers of millwork in Chicago, building contractors who
purchase and cause such work to be installed, and representatives of the carpenters' union whose members are
employed by both manufacturers and contractors.

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

It appears that the respondent manufacturers found
their business seriously impeded by the competition of
material made by nonunion mills located outside of Illinois-mostly in Wisconsin and the South-which sold
their product in the Chicago market cheaper than local
manufacturers who employed union labor could afford
to do. Their operations were thus abridged and they did
not employ so many carpenters as otherwise they could
have done.
They wished to eliminate the competition of Wisconsin
and other nonunion mills which were paying lower wages
and consequently could undersell them. Obviously, it
would tend to bring about the desired result if a general
combination could be secured under which the manufacturers and contractors would employ only union carpenters with the understanding that the latter would
refuse to install nonunion-made millwork. And we think
there is evidence reasonably tending to show that such
a combination was brought about, and that, as intended
by all the parties, the so-called outside competition was cut
down and thereby interstate commerce directly and materially impeded. The local manufacturers, relieved from
the competition that came through interstate commerce,
increased their output and profits; they gave special
discounts to local contractors; more union carpenters secured employment in Chicago and their wages were increased.
These were the iicentives which brought about
the combination. The nonunion mills outside of the city
found their Chicago market greatly circumscribed or destroyed; the price of buildings was increased; and, as
usual under such circumstances, the public paid excessive prices.
The allegations of the bill were sufficient to cover a
combination like the one which some of the evidence
tended to show. It is a matter of no consequence that
the purpose was to shut out nonunion millwork made

UNITED STATES v. BRIMS.
549

Opinion of the Court.

within Illinois as well as that made without. The crime
of restraining interstate commerce through combination
is not condoned by the inclusion of intrastate commerce
as well. The applicable principles have been sufficiently
indicated in Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38;
Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; Eastern States Lumber
Association v. United States, 234 U. S. 600, 612; Coronado Coal Co. v. United Mine Workers, 268 U. S. 295,
310.
To explore the record and pass upon all other assignments of error presented to the court below would require
unreasonable consumption of our time. We may properly
require its view in respect of them.
An order will be entered reversing the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals and remanding the cause to
that court for further proceedings in harmony with this
opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this cause.

