MILLER v. MILWAUKEE.
709

Counsel for Parties.

the rules are made with unassociated shippers most prominently in mind, or from rarely realized possibilities of
demurrage being charged where coal is delivered on the
credit of cars actually in transit from Bluefield, although
those cars are not delayed.

In the ordinary course of

things cars will be kept on hand to answer the mine
owner's credit, and it is for its as well as for the Railway's
advantage that they need not be the very cars that the
mine owner has used.
Judgment affirmed.
MILLER Er AL., EXECUTORS, v. MILWAUKEE.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 73.

Argued December 13, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.

1. Conduct which in usual situations the law protects may become
unlawful when part of a scheme to reach a prohibited result. P. 715.
2. Where income from bonds of the United States which by Act of
Congress is exempt from state taxation is reached'purposely, in the
case of corporation-owned bonds, by exempting the income therefrom in the hands of the corporation, and taxing only so much of
the stockholder's dividends as corresponds to the corporate income
not assessed, the tax is invalid. P. 714.

Reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court (January 9,
1925) in favor of Fred Miller and Elise K. John, as executors of the will of Ernest G. Miller, in their suit against
the City of Milwaukee to recover the amount of income
taxes alleged to have been unconstitutionally collected
under the laws of Wisconsin, from their testator.
Mr. A. W. Schutz for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Walter J. Mattison, with whom Mr. John M. Niven
was on the brief, for defendant in error.

714

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court

MR. JUsMC
Court.

HOLMEs

272 U .S.

delivered the opinion of the

This is a suit to recover the amount of taxes alleged to
have been unconstitutionally exacted from the plaintiffs'
testator. The facts are agreed and the only question is
the validity of the tax under the Constitution of the
United States. The testator held stock in Wisconsin corporations that owned United States bonds issued under
the Acts of April 24, and September 24, 1917. The interest upon these bonds was credited by the corporations
z;o their surplus, and subsequently was distributed to the
stockholders in dividends of stock or cash. The corporaions paid a tax upon their income, except, of course, upon
that received from the bonds of the United States. But
this exemption was met in the laws of Wisconsin by a
provision that while the stockholders were not taxed upon
dividends received from corporations the income of which
was assessed, yet if only part of the income of the corporation was assessed, only a corresponding part of the divi(lends or income received therefrom should be deducted
from the income taxed to the stockholders. The law also
provides that taxable income shall include all dividends
from the earnings of corporations, whether in cash or
stock. The testator was taxed in accordance with the
statute, against his protest that the attempt to make up
from him what the State could not take from the corporations was forbidden by thd Constitution and laws of the
United States. The District Court ruled that the action
could not be maintained and the case was brought directly
to this Court.
There is no doubt that in general a corporation is a
nonconductor that cuts off connection between dividends
to its stockholders and the corporate funds from which
the dividends are paid. Des Moines National Bank v.
Fairweather,263 U. S. 103. A system of taxation that
applied to stockholders of all corporations equally might
tax, we assume for purposes of argument, the stockhold-

MILLER v. MILWAUKEE.
713

715

Opinion of the Court.

ers of a corporation that had invested all its property in
United States bonds. But it would be a different matter
if the State selected such corporations, supposing a number of them to exist, and taxed their stockholders alone.
It is a familiar principle that conduct which in usual
situations the law protects may become unlawful when
part of a scheme to reach a prohibited result. If the
avowed purpose or self-evident operation of a statute is to
follow the bonds of the United States and to make up
for its inability to reach them directly by indirectly
achieving the same result, the statute must fail even if
but for its purpose or special operation it would be
perfectly good. Under the laws of Wisconsin the income
from the United States bonds may not be the only item
exempted from the income tax on corporations, but it
certainly is the most conspicuous instance of exemption
at the present time. A result intelligently foreseen and
offering the most obvious motive for an act that will
bring it about, fairly may be taken to have been a purpose
of the act. On that assumption the immunity of the
national bonds is too important to allow any narrowing
beyond what the Acts of Congress permit. We think it
would be going too far to say that they allow an intentional interference that is only prevented from being direct by the artificial distinction between a corporation and
its members. A tax very well may be upheld as against
any casual effect it may have upon the bonds of the
United States when passed with a different intent and
not aimed at them, but it becomes a more serious attack
upon their immunity when they are its obvious aim. In
such a case the Court must consider the public welfare
rather than the artifices contrived for private convenience
and must look at the facts. See Home Insurance Co. of
New York v. New York, 134 U. S. 594, 598; Gillespie v.
Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501, 505; United States Grain Corporationv. Phillips, 261 U. S. 106, 113.
Judgment reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.

716

Brandeis and Stone, J. J., concurring.

272 U.S.

By agreement, the decision in this case controls the decision in No. 74, Chas. A. Miller, et al. v. City of Milwaukee; No. 75, Emil P. Millerv. City of Milwaukee, and
No. 76, Harry G.John v. City of Milwaukee.
MR. Juszc

BRANDEIS, concurring.

I agree that the judgment must be reversed; but on a
different ground. It was stipulated before the state board
which upheld the tax that it was levied upon "that portion of the mentioned dividends which were directly declared from interest accruing from United States Bonds
issued under and by virtue of the Acts of Congress passed
April 24th, 1917 and September 24th, 1917." A similar
stipulation was entered into in the court below. Thus
the dividends were earmarked as the direct proceeds of
the interest on the war bonds. The later Act provided,
in terms, the former in substance, that the bonds "shall
be exempt both as to principal and interest from all
taxation now or hereafter imposed by . . . any state . . .
upon the income or profits of individuals, partnerships,
associations or corporations." The provision creating the
exemption was clearly within the power of Congress "to
borrow money on the credit of the United States," Art. I,
ยง 8, Par. 2, and was also within its war powers. As a
matter of statutory construction, a dividend paid directly
from the interest seems to me within the exemption expressly conferred. The tax levied was, therefore, void
because it violated that exemption.
I do not think it can properly be said that the state
statute discriminates against Government bonds. The
statute makes no reference to them or to any particular
class of securities. The tax imposed upon the stockholder
results, not from discrimination practiced by a State
against the Federal Government, but from the fact that
the corporation happened to earn its dividend from securities on which, under the Wisconsin law, it was not required

MILLER v. MILWAUKEE.
713

717

Brandeis and Stone, J. J., concurring.

to pay a tax. Compare State ex rel. Columbia Construction Co. v. Tax Commission, 166 Wis. 369. The operation and effect of the statute would be precisely the same
if the dividend had been paid out of any other corporate
income exempt from the state tax; from interest upon
other tax exempt bonds, if any; or out of income from
the part of a business carried on in another State, United
States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321; State ex rel.
Arpin v. Eberhardt,158 Wis. 20; Van Dyke v. Milwaukee,
159 Wis. 460, 466, or out of rentals or mine royalties
received from land without the State, or out of profits
received from the sale of property having a situs out of
the State, Wisconsin Statutes, 71.02(3) (see State ex rel.
Mari2er v. Hampel, 172 Wis. 67); or out of dividends
received from banks, Wisconsin Statutes, 71.05(1) (e).
The purpose of the Legislature was solely to prevent
double taxation by the State of Wisconsin, of the income
received by individuals in the form of dividends. The
deduction allowed is limited to that necessary to prevent
double taxation. Under the Wisconsin law as originally
enacted in 1911 the individual was allowed to deduct
from the aggregate income on which the tax was payable
all "dividends or incomes received . . . from stocks or
interest in any corporation . . . , the income of which
shall have been assessed under the provisions of this
act." The proviso here in question, namely: "that
where only part of the income of any corporation . . .
shall have been assessed under the act only a corresponding part of the dividend or income received therefrom
shall be deducted," was added in 1913, four years before
the United States entered the World War. At that time
there were substantially no Government bonds outstanding except those used by national banks as the basis for
note issues. And in view of the exemptions enumerated
above, it can not well be said, even after the war, that
the tax upon dividends paid out of interest on United

718

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

States bonds furnishes the most conspicuous instance of
the operation of the section in question.
Moreover, under the Wisconsin law, the source out of
which the dividend was declared is immaterial. The
thing received as income is taxable to him who receives
it although the fund or property out of which it was paid
was exempt from taxation in the hands of the payor.
"It is the relation that exists between the person sought
to be taxed and the property claimed as income to him
that determines whether there shall be a tax." State ex
rel. Sallie F. Moon Co. v. Wisconsin Tax Commission,
:166 Wis. 287, 290. Compare Paine v. City of Oshkosh,
90 Wis. 69.
MR. JusTIcm ST OE concurs in this opinion.

STEAMSHIP WILLDOMINO v. CITRO CHEMICAL
COMPANY.
STEAMSHIP WILLDOMINO v. PFIZER & COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
Nos. 29, 30. Argued January 22, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.
1. An inexcusable deviation from her permitted course renders a
vessel liable as an insurer for any damage suffered by the cargo.
P. 725.
2. A steamship, bound from Messina, Sicily, to New York, put into
the Azores for repairs, and thence cleared for New York with a
supply of coal known by her owners and officers to be grossly inadequate for the trip, and, after sailing for some days in that direction,
until the inadequacy became manifest, changed her course to North
Sydney, Nova Scotia, where she recoaled before proceeding to her
destination. Held that there was an inexcusable deviation, even
if she had a right to go to North Sydney from the Azores and so
intended when leaving there, since in that event the preliminary
sailing towards New York was unjustifiable; whereas, if the duty

