530

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U.S.

DODGE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT

No. 341. Argued October 27, 1926.-Decided November 23, 1926.
1. Proceedings to forfeit a motor boat, under § 26 of Title II of the
National Prohibition Act, may be maintained even if the seizure
of the boat was by a person not authorized, since subsequent
adoption of the seizure, by the Government, is retroactive. P. 531.
2. The jurisdiction of the court in such a case was secured by the
fact that the res was in the power of the prohibition director when
the libel was filed. P. 532.
11 F. (2d) 522, affirmed.
CERTIORARI (271 U. S. 655) to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment of the
District Court (7 F. (2d) 189) dismissing a libel brought
by the United States to forfeit a motor boat, under § 26
of the National Prohibition Act.

Mr. Daniel T. Hagan, with whom Mr. Peter W.
McKiernan.was on the brief, for the petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Willebrandt, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. John J. Byrne, Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on the brief, for
the United States.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This was a proceeding in the District Court of the
United States for the condemnation of the motor boat
"Ray of Block Island." The owners appeared as claimants and moved that the libel be dismissed on the ground
that the facts alleged did not warrant a condemnation.
The District Court granted the motion. 7 F. (2d) 189.

DODGE v. UNITED STATES.
530

Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decree. 11 F.
(2d) 522. As there was a conflict of decisions between
different Circuit Courts of Appeal a writ of certiorari
was granted by this Court. 271 U. S. 655.
The libel was brought under the National Prohibition
Act; October 28, 1919, c. 85, Title II, § 26, 41 St. 305,
315. It alleged that police officers of the City of Providence, Rhode Island, discovered a man named, seemingly
one of the claimants, in the act of transporting contrary
to said law intoxicating liquors in the "Ray of Block
Island," over navigable waters of the United States; that
the officers seized the liquors and the boat and arrested
the man; that he subsequently was arrested by officers of
the United States, was convicted of transporting intoxicating liquors in violation of said law and was fined; that
the motor boat was now in custody of a federal prohibition director for the District of Rhode Islahd; and that
by reason of the premises the motor boat was subject
to condemnation and sale. The ground on which the libel
was dismissed by the District Court was that the language
of § 26, making it the duty of "the Commissioner, his assistants, inspectors, or any officer of the law" to seize the
liquor and vehicle, did not extend to the police officers of
the City, who had no authority from the State to take
these steps. It is stated in argument and perhaps fairly
might be assumed, if we thought it important, that when
the vessel was handed over to the prohibition director
the liquor was no longer aboard and that the man arrested
was not present at the scene. See United States v. One
Red Motor Truck, 6 F. (2d) 412. The Circuit Court of
Appeals while agreeing with the above construction of
§ 26 held that the Government might adopt the seizure
and give it retroactive effect. This is in accord with
United States v. Story, 294 Fed. Rep. 517, (Fifth Circuit)
but contrary to United States v. Loomis, 297 Fed. Rep.
359 (Ninth Circuit); this last decision being considerably

.532

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

qualified, however, by the same Court in the later case of
United States v. One Studebaker Seven-PassengerSedan,
4 F. (2d) 534.
The Circuit Court of Appeals relied on the often quoted
language of Mr. Justice Story in The Caledonian, 4
Wheat. 100, to the effect that anyone may seize any property for a forfeiture to the Government, and that if the
Government adopts the act and proceeds to enforce the
forfeiture by legal process, this is of no less validity
than when the seizure is by authority originally given.
The statement is repeated by the same judge in Wood v.
United States, 16 Pet. 342, 359, and Taylor v. United
States, 3 How. 197. See also Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat.
246, 310. The owner of the property suffers nothing that
he would not have suffered if the seizure had been authorized. However effected, it brings the object within the
power of the Court, which is an end that the law seeks
to attain, and justice to the owner is as safe in the one
case as in the other. The jurisdiction of the Court was
secured by the fact that the res was in the possession of
the prohibition director when the libel was filed. The
Richmond, 9 Cr. 102. The Merino, 9 Wheat. 391, 403.
The Underwriter, 13 F. (2d) 433, 434. We can see no
reason for doubting the soundness of these principles
when the forfeiture is dependent upon subsequent events
any more than when it occurs at the time of the seizure,
although it was argued that there was a difference. They
seem to us to embody good sense. The exclusion of evidence obtained by an unlawful search and seizure stand
on a different ground. If the search and seizure are unlawful as invading personal rights secured by the Constitution those rights would be infringed yet further if
the evidence were allowed to be used. The decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is affirmed.
Decree affirmed.

