718

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

States bonds furnishes the most conspicuous instance of
the operation of the section in question.
Moreover, under the Wisconsin law, the source out of
which the dividend was declared is immaterial. The
thing received as income is taxable to him who receives
it although the fund or property out of which it was paid
was exempt from taxation in the hands of the payor.
"It is the relation that exists between the person sought
to be taxed and the property claimed as income to him
that determines whether there shall be a tax." State ex
rel. Sallie F. Moon Co. v. Wisconsin Tax Commission,
:166 Wis. 287, 290. Compare Paine v. City of Oshkosh,
90 Wis. 69.
MR. JusTIcm ST OE concurs in this opinion.

STEAMSHIP WILLDOMINO v. CITRO CHEMICAL
COMPANY.
STEAMSHIP WILLDOMINO v. PFIZER & COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
Nos. 29, 30. Argued January 22, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.
1. An inexcusable deviation from her permitted course renders a
vessel liable as an insurer for any damage suffered by the cargo.
P. 725.
2. A steamship, bound from Messina, Sicily, to New York, put into
the Azores for repairs, and thence cleared for New York with a
supply of coal known by her owners and officers to be grossly inadequate for the trip, and, after sailing for some days in that direction,
until the inadequacy became manifest, changed her course to North
Sydney, Nova Scotia, where she recoaled before proceeding to her
destination. Held that there was an inexcusable deviation, even
if she had a right to go to North Sydney from the Azores and so
intended when leaving there, since in that event the preliminary
sailing towards New York was unjustifiable; whereas, if the duty

S. S. WILLDOMINO v. CITRO CHEM. CO.
718

710

Argument for Petitioner.

was to sail direct to New York, the change of course to North
Sydney was due to negligence in not supplying fuel. P. 726.
3. An emergency sufficient to excuse a departure cannot arise out of
circumstances deliberately planned nor from gross negligence.
P. 727.
300 Fed. 5, affirmed.
CERTIORARI (266 U. S. 297) to decrees for damages to

cargo, entered by the Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing
the District Court, in proceedings in rem against a vessel.
Messrs. George C. Sprague and Francis Rawle, with
whom Messrs. George W. Betts, Jr., and Joseph W. Henderson were on the brief, for petitioner.
The voyage of the Wilidomino was by stages. The
stage beginning at Lisbon was to North Sydney; it was
not to New York. The vessel was ordered by her owner
to go to North Sydney, and these orders were literally
obeyed. A turbine breakdown interrupted the stage from
Lisbon to North Sydney and caused the vessel to put into
Ponta Delgada, Azores Islands. Her orders were not
changed at Ponta Delgada, and upon completion of repairs she resumed the stage of her voyage to North
Sydney. She had sufficient bunker coal to reach North
Sydney both upon sailing from Lisbon and from Ponta
Delgada. She reached North Sydney with coal to spare.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, therefore, erred in holding
that she was unseaworthy upon sailing from Lisbon and
from Ponta Delgada because of insufficiency of bunker
coal to reach New York.
The respondent's cargo was damaged by sea-water as
a result of the stranding of the Willdomino, which was
caused by negligent navigation. The alleged unseaworthiness was in no sense causally connected with the
stranding and the consequent damage to the cargo.
Both courts below so found.
The voyage to North Sydney was not a deviation.
The liberties of the bills of lading gave the Wffldomino
the right to go to North Sydney for sufficient bunkers to

720

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Petitioner.

272 U. S.

carry her to New York. The liberty of bunkering in the
printed clause was not narrowed by the clause of handwriting. "Filling up" refeis only to cargo and not to
fuel for bunkers. Where the bill of lading contains a
clause providing that the vessel may call "at any port
Cr ports in or out of the customary route in any order," or
cther words of similar import, it is uniformly held that
she is entitled to proceed to and stop at ports which are
off the regular and customary route (if such changes are
reasonable). Such a departure is not a deviation, because the parties have agreed that it shall not be. South
Atl. S. S. Line v. London Stores Co., 255 Fed. 306; The
Blandon, 287 Fed. 722; The Panola,1925 A. M. C. 1173;
Akbar & Sons v. Persian S. S. Co., 11 Com. Cas. 219;
Attorney General v. Smith & Co., 34 T. L. R. 566; Citta
di Messina, 169 Fed. 472; Austrian S. S. Co. v. Calafiore,
194 Fed. 377; Emelia S. de Perez, 187 Fed. 361, affirmed
288 Fed. 1019; The Tokuyo Maru, 7 Fed. (2d) 889.
The liberties of the bills of lading gave the Wildomino
the right (had she desired so to do) to take sufficient
bunkers at North Sydney to get away from New York, as
well as to get there. Austrian Union S. S. Co. v. Calafiore,
194 Fed. 377; Shipping Board v. Bunge & Born, Ltd., 41
T. L. R. 73.
Admitting for the purpose of the argument that the
ship was unseaworthy upon sailing from Lisbon and from
Ponta Delgada because of an insufficient coal supply, and
that the stranding was the result of faults or errors in
navigation, yet, since there was no causal relation between
such unseaworthiness and the stranding which caused the
damage to respondent's cargo, neither the ship nor the
shipowner was by such unseaworthiness deprived of the
protection of the Harter Act. InternationalNay. Co. v.
FarrMfg. Co., 181 U. S. 218; The Southwark, 191 U. S. 1;
The Wildcroft, 201 U. S. 378; The Turret Crown,.282 Fed.
354; 284 Fed. 439; 297 Fed. 766. Also, English cases:

S. S. WILLDOMINO v. CITRO CHEM. CO.
718

721

Argument for Respondents.

The Europa, [1908] 98 L. T. R. 246; Havelock v.
Geddes, (1809) 10 East 555; Kish v. Taylor, (1912) A. C.
604; Atlantic Shipping Co. v. Dreyfuss, (1922) A. C. 250;
Elder & Co. v. Patterson,(1924) A. C. 522. See also the
British "Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1924." This Act
follows the Hague Rules of 1921 and 1922. A diplomatic
conference on maritime law was held at Brussels in October, 1922, and it adopted the Hague Rules with slight
modifications. See Scrutton, Charter Parties and Bills of
Lading, 12th ed., 1925, App. IV.
The interpretation for which we contend will bring the
law in the United States into conformity with the law of
Great Britain. The Eliza Lines, 199 U.S. 119; Queen Ins.
Co. v. Globe Ins. Co., 263 U. S.487.
The Harter Act should be so construed as to include
the rule of causal relation between the unseaworthiness
and the disaster causing cargo damage. The Irrawaddy,
171 U. S. 187; The Southwark, 191 U. S. 1; The Jason,
225 U. S. 32; InternationalNay. Co. v. Farr Mfg. Co.,
181 U. S.218; The Turret Crown, 282 Fed. 354; Parsons,
,Shipping, vol. I, p. 320; 16 Harv. Law Rev. 157; Havelock v. Geddes, 10 East 555. The Harter Act is concerned only with seaworthiness in which deviation plays
no part. The sole effect of deviation is to displace the bill
of lading. The St. Johns, 263 U. S.119.
The petitioner took reasonable care of the damaged
merchandise after the stranding.
Mr. D. Roger Englar, with whom Mr. James D. Carpenter, Jr., was on the brief, for respondents.
The court below found that it was the deliberate purpose of the petitioner not to take on board sufficient coal
to carry the vessel to New York, but only barely enough
to carry her to North Sydney; and to conceal this intent
and put into North Sydney as a port of refuge under a.
necessity created by the petitioner itself. The court
found that the vessel was, therefore, unseaworthy, and
234G8',-7----46

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Respondents.

272 U. S.

taat this unseaworthiness resulted directly from the
owner's cable instructions. These findings are fully sustained by the evidence.
Having failed to use due diligence to make the Willdomino seaworthy as required by ยง 3 of the Harter Act,
27 Stat. 445, and having on the contrary, directed her to
sail in an unseaworthy condition, the petitioner, as owner
of the vessel, cannot invoke the protection of that section,
but is liable for damage to cargo resulting from the negligence of its servants. The Jason, 225 U. S. 32; International Nay. Co. v. Farr Mfg. Co., 181 U. S. 218; The
Wildcroft, 201 U. S. 378; The Southwark, 191 U. S. 1.
Petitioner's argument is that it would be absurd to hold
it responsible, on account of the shortage of fuel, for
damage which did not result from that cause. This argument is plausible enough on its face, but it is based on a
misstatement of the facts. The petitioner was not held
liable because its vessel was short of fuel, but because its
servants were guilty of negligence in navigation, which
directly caused the damage to respondents' cargo. The
basis of petitioner's liability is the fundamental principle
of all law, that one who negligently damages the property of another is liable for the damage; together with
the rule of respondeat superior, which extends this
liability to include the negligence of his servants. It is
true that Congress has created a statutory modification
of this general liability, of which the petitioner might
have obtained the benefit by complying with the conditions upon which it is granted. Not having complied with
these conditions, the petitioner, of course, cannot obtain
the benefits of the statute.
The very structure of the third section of the Harter
Act clearly indicates that there is no causal connection
contemplated between the condition and the exemption.
There will rarely be any connection between unseaworthiness and negligence in navigation; and yet due diligence

S. S. WILLDOMINO v. CITRO CHEM. CO.
718

723

Argument for Respondents.

to make the ship seaworthy is made the condition of
exemption in respect of negligent navigation. If the Act
were based on causal relation, one would expect that a
shipowner who had used due diligence to make his ship
seaworthy would be relieved from liability for losses resulting from unseaworthiness. The Act does not say this,
however, and is not so construed. The Carib Prince,170
U. S. 655.
Owing to the deviations of the Willdomino from the
voyage specified in the bills of lading, the petitioner has
forfeited all protection under the clauses of its bills of
lading, and is liable as an insurer of libellants' goods. The
Citta di Messina, 169 Fed. 472; The Dunbeth, (1897),
P Div. 133; Scaranmanga v. Stamp, 5 C. P. Div. 295;
Davis v. Garrett, 6 Bing. 716; Leduc v. Ward, 20 Q. B.
Div. 475; Bond v. The Cora,3 Fed. Cas. No. 1620; Johnson v. New York Cent. R. R., 33 N. Y. 610; Knox v. The
Ninetta, 14 Fed. Cas. 827; Carver, Carriage of Goods by
Sea, 6th ed., p. 398; Am. & Eng. Enc. L., vol. 7, p. 208;
Morrison v. Shaw, (1916), 2 K. B. 783; South Atlantic
S. S. Line v. London-Savannah Co., 255 Fed. 306; The
Blandon, 287 Fed. 722; Emelia S. de Perez, 1923 Am.
Mar. Cas. 42.
The Willdomino deviated on the voyage from Ponta
Delgada to North Sydney in not following the direct
route; the uncontradicted testimony of the officers of the
Willdomino establishes that they followed the course to
New York for several days and then changed their course
for North Sydney. Michaels v. Railroad, 30 N. Y. 564;
Constable v. Nat. S. S. Co., 154 U. S. 51; Hostetter v.
Park, 137 U. S. 30; Carver, Carriage of Goods by Sea,
6th ed., p. 393; 9 Amer. & Eng. Encyl. of Law, pp. 419421; 26 Cyc. 625. In proceeding to North Sydney instead
of to New York direct, the Willdomino would have been
guilty of an unjustified deviation, even if she had proceeded from Ponta Delgada to North Sydney by the most
direct route.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S_

As found by the Circuit Court of Appeals, the petitioner
is liable, irrespective of unseaworthiness or deviation, because of its gross neglect to care for and preserve the
respondents' cargo after the disaster.
MR.JusTicu McREYNOLDs delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondents instituted proceedings in rem against the
"Willdomino," a British vessel, to recover the value of
five hundred and three (168 and 335) casks of citrate of
lime owned by and consigned to them, which she accepted
June 10, 1920, at Messina, Sicily, for delivery at New
York, subject to issued bills of lading. After leaving
Messina the vessel put in at Gibraltar, Lisbon, Ponta
Delgada (The Azores), North Sydney (Nova Scotia) and
Halifax. While passing between the last-named ports.
th:ough negligent navigation, she struck a reef or submerged object; water filled her forward compartment and
respondents' goods were so damaged that they refused
acceptance at destination. The causes were heard upon
the same record and present identical questions. In the
District Court petitioner prevailed; but the Circuit Court
of Appeals thought otherwise and entered judgments for
the damages sustained. 300 Fed. 5.
The petition for certiorari alleges that the causes involve three questions-1. When in normal condition citrate of lime contains
sixty-four per centum of citric acid; the cargo offered for
delivery at New York contained sixty per centum of citric
acid. Was it in sound condition?
2. Having regard to the bills of lading, did the
"Willdomino" deviate when she went to North Sydney?
3. Must there be causal connection between the lack
of due diligence to make a vessel seaworthy and the accident from which damage results in order to deprive the

S. S. WILLDOMINO v. CITRO CHEM. CO.
718

725

Opinion of the Court.

vessel of the exemptions granted by ยง 3 of the Harter
Act?*
We confine our consideration to the points specified by
the petition and agree with the conclusions of the Circuit
Court of Appeals concerning the essential facts, although
they are radically different from those of the trial court.
It is unnecessary now to discuss the evidence-that was
adequately done below.
The first of the above-stated questions has not been
pressed here and is either abandoned or inconsequential.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, we think, rightly held
that the "Willdomino" made an inexcusable deviation
from the permitted course when she went to North Sydney. Consequently, she became liable as an insurer for
any damage suffered by the cargo. St. Johns Corp. v.
Companhia Geral, etc., 263 U. S. 119, 124; The Citta di
Messina, 169 Fed. 472, 474, 475; The Sarnia,278 Fed. 459.
Except as to inserted name of the consignee and number of casks the printed bills of lading were identical.
They acknowledge receipt of ". . . casks citrate of
lime" "for shipment, in apparent good order and condition, from Ferd. Baller & C., to be transported by the good
*" Sac. 3. That if the owner of any vessel transporting merchandise
or property to or from any port in the United States of America

shall exercise due diligence to make the said vessel in all respects

seaworthy and properly manned, equipped, and supplied, neither the
vessel, her owner or owners, agent, or charterers shall become or be
held responsible for damage or loss resulting from faults or errors in
navigation or in the management of said vessel nor shall the vessel, her
owner or owners, charterers, agent, or master be held liable for losses
arising from dangers of the sea or other navigable waters, acts of
God, or public enemies, or the inherent defect, quality, or vice of the
thing carried, or from insufficiency of package or seizure under legal
process, or for loss resulting from any act or omission of the shipper
or owner of the goods, his agent or representative, or from saving or
attempting to save life or property at sea, or from any deviation in
rendering such service." Act of February 13, 1893, (the Hlarter
Act) c. 105, 27 Stat. 445.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

Steamship Wilidomino to New York, with liberty to call
at intermediate ports or any port or ports in or out
of the customary route in any order, to receive and discharge coal, cargo, passengers, and for any other purposes." And they provide: "The ship has liberty of
filling up and/or bunkering at any port or ports in or
out of the way." "Filling up only in ports on the way
westwards of New York," is written at the bottom of eah
bill, and all agree that of therein really means to.
The "Willdomino" left Messina with five hundred and
sixty-nine tons of coal-not sufficient under any circum1stances to carry her to New York. At Gibraltar, a customary coaling port, she took on four hundred tons and
left there for Lisbon with seven hundred and fifty-six
tons in her bunkers. From Lisbon she cleared for New
Y.rk-two thousand, nine hundred and five miles awaywlth but six hundred and fifty-one tons, an inadequate
amount. When five days out from Lisbon an accident
befell the high-pressure turbine and she put into Ponta
Delgada for repairs. Finding that port not properly
equipped therefor, the master decided to proceed on the
low-pressure turbine alone. She took on two hundred
and fifty tons of coal and cleared for New York-two
thousand, two hundred and ninety miles-with six hundred and twenty-nine tons on board. This was grossly
inadequate for that distance, as her officers knew. After
proceeding five or six days toward New York it became
ma-nifest that there was not enough coal to make that
port and thereupon she radically changed her course and
proceeded to North Sydney, where she arrived with sixtytwo tons.
It is clear enough that for some reason not quite definitely disclosed the officers of the vessel under direction
of the owners, while realizing that there was not enough
coal on board for such voyage, wished to create the
impression that she left Ponta Delgada bound directly

S. S. WILLDOMINO v. CITRO CHEM. CO.
718

727

Opinion of the Court.

for New York, when in truth they intended to take her
to North Sydney under pretense of an emergency.
In such circumstances by proceeding for five or six
days in the direction of New York the vessel deviated
from any permissible course to North Sydney, even if it
be true, as her counsel now maintain, that she had the
right to go and intended to proceed to the latter port
from Ponta Delgada.
If, on the other hand, the vessel started from Ponta
Delgada with the intention of going to New York, the
only emergency claimed to justify departure from the
ordinary course and procedure to North Sydney arose
fron wilful failure to take on sufficient coal.
An emergency sufficient to excuse a departure cannot
arise out of circumstances deliberately planned nor from
gross negligence.
Whether the intention was to proceed directly from
Ponta Delgada to New York, as counsel for the petitioner
are said to have maintained below, or to North Sydney,
as they now insist, there was inexcusable departure.
"In the law maritime a deviation is defined as a
'voluntary departure without necessity or any reasonable cause from the regular and usual course of the ship
insured.'" Constablev. National Steamship Co., 154 U. S.
51, 66.
"The voyage must be prosecuted without unnecessary delay or deviation. The shipowner's undertaking is that he will be diligent in carrying the goods on
the agreed voyage and will do so directly without any
unnecessary deviation." Carveron Carriageof Goods by
Sea, 6th Ed., 393.
Nothing in the present bills of lading suggests that the
vessel might wander about the sea, heading first for one
port, and then without adequate reason for another. If
the "Willdomino" had the privilege of going from Ponta
Delgada to North Sydney and intended so to do, it was

728

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Parties.

272 U. S.

her duty to take the ordinary course. This she did
not do.
What has been said of the second question renders it
unnecessary to discuss the third.
The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals are
Affirmed.
HEIRS OF SAMUEL GARLAND, DECEASED,
CHOCTAW NATION.

PITCHLY1N ET

AL.,

,.

HEIRS-AT-LAW, v. CHOCTAW
NATION.

APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Ncs. 42, 43. Argued December 1, 2, 1926.--Decided January 3, 1927.
1. Upon a reference to determine a claim for services on a quantum
meruit basis, when the Court of Claims finds the amounts already
paid the claimant, and dismisses his petition, or renders judgment
for an additional sum, this is a determination that he was not
entitled to more, although there is no definite finding of the value
of the services. P.730.
2. In determining the value of services rendered the Choctaw Nation,
the Court of Claims was not bound by opinions of the Choctaw
legislature or executive officers. P. 731.
59 Ct. Cls. 768; Id. 796, affirmed.

APPEALS from decisions of the Court of Claims on
claims for services, against the Choctaw Nation, referred
to that Court by Acts of Congress. See Garland'sHeirs v.
Choctaw Nation, 256 U. S. 439.
Mr.HarryPeyton for appellants, in No. 42.
Messrs. Harry Peyton and Thomas P. Gore for appellants, in No. 43.
Assistant Attorney General Galloway, with whom
Soliitor General Mitchell, and Messrs. George T. Stormont, and Hampton Tucker were on the brief, for appellee, in Nos. 42 and 43.

