YANKTON SIOUX TRIBE v. UNITED STATES. 351
821

Syllabus.

I am of opinion that the decree should be affirmed:
1. Section 3450 does not apply. There was no tax, as
distinguished from penalty, imposed upon the whiskey
that Killian had in the automobile when discovered by
the prohibition agent.
2. Section 26 directs the proceedings to be taken in
respect of the vehicle "whenever intoxicating liquors
transported or possessed illegally shall be seized by an
officer." The libel brings the case within the words and
meaning of the clause just quoted.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUsTICE MCREYNOLDS
and MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND concur-in this opinion.

YANKTON SIOUX TRIBE OF INDIANS v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 250.

Argued October 7, 1926.-Decided November 22, 1926.

I. Where promises are in the alternative, the fact that one of them
is at the time, or subsequently becomes, impossible of performance
does not, without more, relieve the promisor from performing the
other. P. 358.
2. In an agreement, ratified by Congress in 1894, by which the
Yankton Sioux Indians made a large cession of lands to the United
States, it was stipulated, in part consideration for the cession and
with respect to a small tract of other land containing pipe-stone
quarries which were long claimed by the Indians under a Treaty
of 1858 with encouragement from Congress, (1) that if the Government questioned their ownership of that reservation, including the
fee of the land as well as the right to work the quarries, the Secretary of the Interior should as speedily as possible refer the
matter to the Supreme Court of the United States for decision,
and (2) that if this were not done within one year from the
ratification of the agreement by Congress, such failure, on the part
of the Secretary, should be a waiver by the United States of all
rights to the ownership of such pipe-stone reservation, and the
same should thereafter be solely the property of the tribe. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

Secretary, believing the provision for securing a decision of the
Court was beyond the power of Congress, and being advised by
the Attorney General that it was impracticable, made no attempt
to carry it out. The land ceded was opened to settlement by the
Government and passed largely into the possession of innocent
purchasers, making restoration of the status quo ante impossible.
In view of the equities growing out of these facts, Held, that the
second of the alternative stipulations was enforceable even if the
first was not. P. 356.
61 Ct. Cls. 40, reversed.

CERTIORARI (270 U. S. 637), to review a judgment of
the Court of Claims rejecting the claim of the above
named tribe of Indians for compensation for a tract of
land in Minnesota embracing the Red Pipe Stone Quarries, which had been appropriated by the United States.
See also, 53 Ct. Cls. 67, 81.
Mr. Jennings C. Wise for the petitioners.
Solicitor General Mitchell for the United States, was
unable to support the reasoning of the Court of Claims,
but he felt constrained to present the case fully in deference to the views of that Court and to the evident desire in
Congress to have a judicial settlement of the controversy.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
By § 22 of the Indian Appropriation Act of April 4,
1910, c. 140, 36 Stat. 269, 284, jurisdiction was conferred
upon the Court of Claims "to hear, and report a finding
of fact, as between the United States and the Yankton
tribe of Indians of South Dakota as to the interest, title,
ownership and right of possession of said tribe" to a
tract of land lying in the State of Minnesota embracing
the Red Pipestone Quarries. That court, narrowly construing its powers, reported to Congress findings of fact
without passing upon the question of title or determining
any issue of law. 53 Ct. Cls. 67, 81. Congress subse-

YANKTON SIOUX TRIBE v. UNITED STATES 353
351

Opinion of the Court.

quently, on June 3, 1920, c. 222, 41 Stat. 738, conferred
upon the same court jurisdiction to adjudicate all claims
of the Sioux Indians against the United States, and under
that Act these Indians filed their petition in this proceeding praying judgment for an amount which would compensate them should it be found that the land in question
had been misappropriated by the defendant. On January 9, 1925, while the case was pending, jurisdiction was
conferred more definitely upon the same court to determine from the findings of fact theretofore made "the
interest, title, ownership, and right of possession of the
Yankton Band of Santee Sioux Indians in and to the land
known as the 'Red Pipestone Quarries,"' and thereupon
to determine, and enter judgment for, the amount "legally
and equitably due from the United States " to petitioner
for the same. c. 59, 43 Stat. 730. That court, in addition to its previous findings of fact, has now found that
the Indians had been and still are permitted freely to
visit and procure stone from the quarries and that they
are free to do so as long as they may desire. Concluding
that under the Treaty of 1858, 11 Stat. 743, the only
interest possessed by the tribe in the quarries was this
right, which had never been denied, the court dismissed
the petition. 61 Ct. Cls. 40.
By the Treaty of 1858, these Indians ceded to the
United States all the lands then owned, possessed, or
claimed by them, wherever situated, except a particularly
described tract of 400,000 acres. In consideration of that
cession, among other things, the United States agreed
(Art. VIII, p. 746) that "The said Yancton Indians shall
be secured in the free and unrestricted use of the Red
Pipe-stone quarry, or so much thereof as they have been
accustomed to frequent and use for the purpose of procuring stone for pipes; and the United States hereby stipulate
and agree to cause to be surveyed and marked so much
thereof as shall be necessary and proper for that purpose,

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

and retain the same and keep it open and free to the Indians to visit and procure stone for pipes so long as they
shall desire." In accordance with this agreement, the
tract here in question, containing about 648 acres, was so
surveyed and marked.
It is quite clear from all the surrounding circumstances
that the Indians understood that by this provision there
was granted to them full ownership of the tract; and their
claim to that effect they have always persistently and
stoutly maintained. The validity of that claim the Government has sometimes denied, and at other times apparently conceded. One conspicuous example of the latter
character may be cited. In 1889 (c. 421, 25 Stat. 1012)
Congress provided for the appraisement of the tract and
the ascertainment of the actual value of a strip of land
upon it then occupied by a railway company and the
damage to the remainder of the tract by reason of the
taking of the strip for railroad purposes. As a result of
this legislation, $1,740.00 was collected from the railroad
company and paid to the Indians. By the same Act it
was provided that no part of the tract should be sold
without the consent of a majority of the adult male members of the tribe, and that the proceeds of sales should be
credited to the annuity fund of the Indians or expended
according to their determination.
Nevertheless, the extent and character of the interest
of the Indians has continued to be more or less in controversy. In 1891 (c. 240, 26 Stat. 764) provision was
made for establishing Indian industrial and training
schools in Minnesota, Michigan and Wisconsin, that in
Minnesota to be located on the Quarry tract. Under
this Act a school was established on the tract and opened
early in 1893, possession being taken, it is conceded, of
the entire tract. In the meantime, negotiations with the
Indians had resulted in an agreement for the cession of
an additional 150,000 acres of land, which agreement was

YANKTON SIOUX TRIBE v. UNITED STATES
351

355

Opinion of the Court.

ratified by Congress in 1894. c. 290, 28 Stat. 314. In
part consideration of the cession, the agreement c6ntains
the following article:
"Article XVI. If the Government of the United States
questions the ownership of the Pipestone Reservation by
the Yankton Tribe of Sioux Indians, under the treaty of
April 19th, 1858, including the fee to the land as well as
the right to work the quarries, the Secretary of the Interior shall as speedily as possible refer the matter to the
Supreme Court of the United States, to be decided by
that tribunal ...
" If the Secretary of the Interior shall not, within one
year after the ratification of this agreement by Congress,
refer the question of the ownership of the said Pipestone
Reservation to the Supreme Court, as provided for above,
such failure upon his part shall be construed as, and shall
be, a waiver by the United States of all rights to the
ownership of said Pipestone Reservation, and the same
shall thereafter be solely the property of the Yankton
tribe of the Sioux Indians, including the fee to the land."
Concluding that the provision for referring the matter
to this Court was beyond the constitutional power of
Congress, the Secretary made no attempt to carry that
part of the article into operation beyond submitting the
question for the opinion of the Attorney General. That
officer advised that compliance with it was impracticable.
There the matter rested until 1897, at which time Congress, apparently on the theory that the Indian title had
vested under the second paragraph of the article, by
reason of the failure of the Secretary to refer the matter
to this Court under the first paragraph, directed the Secretary of the Interior to negotiate with the Indians for
the purchase of the land. c. 3, 30 Stat. 62, 87. Negotiations were had with the Indians and an agreement made
for the transfer of their interests to the United States for
the sum of $100,000, which agreement was transmitted to

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

Congress and referred to the Senate Committee on Indian
Affairg. A majority of the committee reported adversely,
but no action upon the report or upon the matter appears
to have been taken by Congress. The acts of legislation
and the proceedings in the Court of Claims followed as
already outlined.
The lower court held, first, that the right reserved to
the Indians by the Treaty of 1858 was a mere easement
and this the Government had not interfered with; and,
second, that Article XVI did not operate to enlarge this
right but was a mere direction to refer the question of
title to this Court, and, since that involved an unconstitutional attempt to extend the original jurisdiction of the
Court, the provision on its face was impossible of performance and, therefore, void.
We pass the first ground without considering it, and
come at once to the second. To begin with, it is not clear
that the undertaking to refer the question to this Court
was impossible of performance. The Attorney General,
to whom the question was referred by the Secretary of
the Interior, advised only that it was "impracticable."
That it could not have been referred directly to this Court
is obvious, since that would have been to invoke an original jurisdiction which the Court cannot exercise under
the Constitution. But the matter might have gone to an
inferior court and have been brought here by appeal,
necessary legislation to that end, so far as required, being
provided. Such a process, if it would not have satisfied
the letter, would, at least, have satisfied the purpose of
the provision. See The Harriman, 9 Wall. 161, 172-173;
Beebe v. Johnson, 19 Wend. 500.
We prefer, however, to rest our decision upon other
considerations. The Pipestone Quarries are of great antiquity. There the tribes, from time immemorial, have
been wont to gather, under solemn truce, to quarry the
stone, which is of a quality and texture not found else-

YANKTON SIOUX TRIBE v. UNITED STATES 357
351

Opinion of the Court.

where, and mold it into pipes-the Indian symbols of
peace. A great store of Indian myth and legend is associated with the spot; and it always has been regarded by
the tribesmen with sentiments bordering upon religious
reverence. While transferring to the United States their
possessory title to other lands, the Indians had steadfastly
refused to surrender what they conceived to be their
peculiar right to this tract. Under these circumstances,
it is by no means certain that they would have agreed to
the cession at all without the provision in question.
However that may be, it cannot be doubted that they
regarded the undertaking of the Government set forth in
Article XVI, as of great value, accepted it in good faith,
and relied with the utmost confidence upon the alternative promise of Congress that in the event the matter
was not referred to this Court all claims of the Government to the ownership of the tract would cease and the
Indian title in fee be conclusively established.
To deny all efficacy to that part of the undertaking
upon the ground that the other part was impossible of
performance, and at the same time hold these wards of
the Government to the terms of the cession for which
the undertaking formed so important an element of consideration, would be most inequitable, and utterly indefensible upon any moral ground; and this is peculiarly
true in view of the attitude of Congress in so dealing
with the matter from the to time, as hereinbefore recited, as to justify a belief on the part of the Indians that
their ownership was conceded. It is impossible, however,
to rescind the cession and restore the Indians to their
former rights because the lands have been opened to settlement and large portions of them are now in the possession of innumerable innocent purchasers; and nothing
remains but to sanction a great injustice or enforce the
alternative agreement of the United States in respect of
the ownership of the Indians. The latter course is so

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

manifestly in accordance with ordinary conceptions of
fairness that it would be unfortunate if any positive rule
of law stood in the way of its accomplishment. We are
of opinion that none exists. The judgment of the Court
of Claims, that such an obstruction is to be found in the
conclusion that the provision for referring the controversy to this Court was legally impossible of execution,
cannot be sustained.
The general rule undoubtedly is, that where there is
a legal impossibility of performance appearing on the face
of the promise there is no contract in respect of it. But
here the undertaking of the Government is in the alternative-that either the question of the title of the Indians
shall be referred to this Court for determination, or, in
default of that being done, title in fee shall vest in the
Indians. Granted the impossibility of the first alternative, the Government, nevertheless, took the risk, and
must, in accordance with its definite undertaking to that
effect, suffer the stipulated consequence, in virtue of the
principle that, where promises are in the alternative, the
fact that one of them is at the time, or subsequently becomes, impossible of performance does not, at least without more, relieve the promisor from performing the other.
In Stevens v. Webb, 7 Car. & P. 60, 62, the defendant
gave a bond in the sum of 351 to obtain the release of a
prisoner held in custody on a ca. sa., conditioned to surrender him at a time fixed. The court held the condition void on the ground that a defendant in execution,
once discharged out of custody by the plaintiff, could not
by law be retaken upon that judgment, but, nevertheless,
enforced payment of the penalty, saying: "There was
therefore one branch of the agreement that the defendant could not perform; and the law is, that, if an agreement is in the alternative, and one branch of the alternative cannot be performed, the party is bound to perform
the other, which, in this case, is to pay 351." There is an

ANDERSON v. SHIPOWNERS ASSN.
351

359

Syllabus.

earlier decision, rendered in 1798 in the Court of Common
Pleas, upon exactly similar facts, to the same effect. Dc
Costa v. Davis, 1 Bos. & P. 242. In Drake v. White, 117
Mass. 10, 13, Stevens v. Webb, supra,was cited as authority for the proposition that, where one part of an alternative promise, originally possible, has subsequently become
impossible of fulfilment, the other part of the alterna1ive must nevertheless be performed. See also Mill Dam
Foundery v. Hovey, 21 Pick. 417, 443; State v. Executors
of Thomas Worthington, 7 Ohio 171, 173; Jacquinet v.
Boutron, 19 La. Ann. 30, 32.
That the United States has taken and holds possession
of the entire Quarry tract of 648 acres is not in dispute;
and since the Indians are the owners of it in fee, they
are entitled to just compensation as for a taking under
the power of eminent domain.
Judgment reversed
ANDERSON v. SHIPOWNERS ASSOCIATION OF
THE PACIFIC COAST ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 306.

Argued October 28,29, 1926.-Decided November 22, 1926.

1. A suit by an individual, claiming injury, on behalf of himself and
all others in like case, to enjoin the maintenance of a combination
in restraint of commerce violating § 1 of the Anti-Trust Aet, is
authorized by §§ 4 and 16 of the Clayton Act. P. 360.
2. Ships and those who operate them hre instrumentalities of commerce and within the Commerce Clause, no less than cargoes.
P. 363.
3. A combination whereby the owners and operators of ships engaged in interstate and foreign commerce surrender completely
their freedom of action in respect of the employment of seamen,
to associations formed to regulate and control the subject, violates
the Anti-Trust Act. P. 362.

