OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

HEBERT ET AL. V. LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 24.

Submitted October 13, 1926.-Decided November 1, 1926.

1. The Eighteenth Amendment contemplates that the manufacture
of intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes may be denounced as
a criminal offense by both federal and state law; and that these
laws may not only coexist but be given full operation, each independently of the other. P. 314.
2. Where such manufacture is thus doubly denounced, one who
engages therein commits two distinct offenses, one against the
United States and one against the State, and may be subjected
to prosecution and punishment in the federal courts for one and
in the state courts for the other without any infraction of the
constitutional rule against double jeopardy, it being limited to
repeated prosecutions "for the same offense." P. 314.
3. The provision of § 256, Jud. Code, giving the District Courts
exclusive jurisdiction of offenses, relates only to offenses under the
federal law and does not affect the authority of a state court
over an offense against the state law, although the same act was
an offense against federal law as well. P. 314.
4. The power of a State to declare criminal the manufacture of
intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes and to prosecute offenders,
is not derived from the Eighteenth Amendment. P. 314.
5. In the absence of objection by the United States, persons under
federal indictment and on bail awaiting trial for violations of the
federal prohibition law, may be arrested and tried by the state
courts for the same acts constituting violations of the state prohibition law. P. 315.
6. A decision of a state supreme court construing state penal statutes
in such wise as to impose a heavier sentence than would be valid
under the construction advanced by the accused is not reviewable
here as a denial of due process of law, under the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 316.
7. The due process of law clause in the Fourteenth Amendment
does not take up the statutes of the several States and make
them the test of what it requires; nor does it enable this Court
to revise the decisions of the state courts on questions of state
law. What it does require is that state action, whether through
one agency or another, shall be consistent with the fundamental

HIEBERT v. LOUISIANA.
312

Opinion of the Court.

principles of liberty and justice which lie at the base of all our
civil and political institutions and not infrequently are designated
as "law of the land." Those principles are applicable alike in all the
States and do not depend upon or vary with local legislation. P. 316.
158 La. 209, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana affirming a sentence for violation of the state law
against manufacture of intoxicating liquor for beverage
purposes.

Messrs. A. R. Mitchell and Thomas A. Edwards for the
plaintiff in error, submitted.
Messrs. Percy Saint, Attorney General of Louisiana,
Percy T. Ogden, Assistant Attorney General, John J.
Robira, and E. R. Showalter for the State of Louisiana,
submitted.
MR. JUSTICE VAwI DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The State of Louisiana, like the United States, has a
statute making it a criminal offense to manufacture intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes. A judgment of
the Supreme Court of the State affirming a conviction
under this statute, 158 La. 209, is presented for review
by this writ of error. The writ was sued out before the
Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, and falls
within the saving clause in the last section.
When the accusation was preferred in the state court,
and when the accused were arrested thereon, they already
were under indictment in the federal district court for
the same acts as an offense against the federal statute
and were on bail awaiting trial in that court. When
taken before the state court they interposed a plea, first,
that it was without authority to entertain the accusation,
because the acts charged constituted an offense against
the United States of which the federal district court was

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

given exclusive jurisdiction by § 256 of the federal judicial
code, and, second, that, even if the accusation could be
entertained, their arrest under state process while they
were on bail awaiting trial in the federal district court
was in derogation of the authority of the latter, and therefore did not give jurisdiction of their persons. The plea
was overruled and this is assigned as error.
We think the ruling was right. The Eighteenth
Amendment to the Constitution contemplates that the
manufacture of intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes
may be denounced as a criminal offense both by the federal law and by the state law; and that these laws inay
not only coexist but be given full operation, each independently of the other. Where such manufacture is thus
doubly denounced, one who engages therein commits
two distinct offenses, one against the United States and
one against the State, and may be subjected to prosecution and punishment in the federal courts for one and
in the state courts for the other without any infraction of
the constitutional rule against double jeopardy, it being
limited to repeated prosecutions "for the same offense."
United States v. Lanza, 260 U. S. 377.
The provision in § 256 of the federal judicial code has
no bearing on the authority of a state court to entertain
an accusation for an offense against the state law. That
provision relates to offenses "cognizable under the authority of the United States." Only offenses against the
laws of the United States are cognizable under its authority. Those against state laws are cognizable only
under the authority of the State. And this is true where
the same act is an offense against both a law of the
United States and a law of the State.
An argument is advanced to the effect that the Slate
in denouncing the manufacture of intoxicating liquor
for beverage purposes as a criminal offense and in taking
proceedings to punish the offenders is exerting a power

HEBERT v. LOUISIANA.
312

Opinion of the Court.

derived from the Eighteenth Amendment, and therefore
that all that is done by the State in that regard must be
taken as done under the authority of the United States.
The same argument was advanced in United States v.
Lanza, supra, and was rejected as unsound for reasons
which we deem it well to repeat here"To regard the Amendment as the source of the power
of the States to adopt and enforce prohibition measures
is to take a partial and erroneous view of the matter.
Save for some restrictions arising out of the Federal
Constitution, chiefly the commerce clause, each State
possessed that power in full measure prior to the Amendinent, and the probable purpose of declaring a concurrent
power to be in the States was to negative any possible inference that in vesting the National Government with
the power of country-wide prohibition, state power would
be excluded. In effect, the second section of the Eighteenth Amendment put an end to restrictions upon the
State's power arising out of the Federal Constitution
and left her free to enact prohibition laws applying
to all transactions within her limits. To be sure, the
first section of the Amendment took from the States
all power to authorize acts falling within its prohibition,
but it did not cut down or displace prior state laws not
inconsistent with it. Such laws derive their force, as
do all new ones consistent with it, not from this Amendment, but from power originally belonging to the States,
preserved to them by the Tenth Amendment, and now
relieved from the restriction heretofore arising out of
the Federal Constitution. This is the ratio decidendi of
our decision in Vigliotti v. Pennsylvania,258 U. S.403."
It, of course, was essential that the state court have
jurisdiction of the persons of the accused. In fact they
were before it and were accorded full opportunity to defend. In the absence of any showing to the contrary,
and there is none, it properly may be assumed that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

United States acquiesced in their arrest and trial on the
accusation under the state law, notwithstanding they
were then on bail awaiting trial in the federal court on
the indictment pending there. Certainly, if the United
States was not objecting, the fact that the accused were
thus on bail awaiting trial in the federal court presented
no obstacle to the arrest under the process of the state
court as a means of acquiring jurisdiction of their persons.
Ponzi v. Fessenden, 258 U. S. 254, 260; Beavers v. Haubert, 198 U. S. 77, 85; Peckham v. Henkel, 216 U. S.483,
486.
The accused also assign error on a ruling respecting the
maximum period of imprisonment admissible under the
state law. Two statutes were involved. The accused
took the position that one was special and excluded the
other. But the trial court rejected that view, construed
the statutes as intended to be taken together, and as a
result imposed a more burdensome sentence than was
named in the statute which the accused thought controlling. The Supreme Court sustained that construction.
and the accused contend here, as they did in that court,
that the construction was wrong and, being wrong, operated as a denial of due process of law in the sense of the
Fourteenth Amendment. The contention must be overruled. Whether state statutes shall be construed one way
or another is a state question, the final decision of which
rests with the courts of the State. The due process of law
clause in the Fourteenth Amendment does not take up
the statutes of the several States and make them the
test of what it requires; nor does it enable this Court
to revise the decisions of the state courts on questions of
state law. What it does require is that state action,
whether through one agency or another, shall be consistent with the fundamental principles of liberty and justice
which lie at the base of all our civil and political institutions and not infrequently are designated as "law of the

MOORE v. FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO.
312

Syllabus.

land." Those principles are applicable alike in all the
States and do not depend upon or vary with local legislation. Castillo v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674, 682-683;
West v. Louisiana, 194 U. S. 258, 261-263; Patterson v.
Colorado, 205 U. S. 454, 459; Pullman Co. v. Knott, 235
U. S. 23, 25; Enterprise Irrigation District v. Farmers
Mutual Canal Co., 243 U. S. 157, 166. The Supreme
Court of the State having held that the two statutes must
be taken together in determining the penalty intended
we must accept that conclusion as if written into the
statutes themselves. Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas
Co., 220 U. S. 61, 73. All that would be open in this
Court under the due process clause is whether the State
had power to impose the penalty fixed by the statutes
as thus construed. Rawlins v. Georgia, 201 U. S. 638,
640. That the State had such power is not questioned,
but only that the statutes rightly construed show that
the power has been exercised. On this question, as we
have said, the decision of the Supreme Court of the State
is controlling.
Judgment affirmed.
MOORE, COMMISSIONER, v. FIDELITY & DEPOSIT COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF OREGON.

No. 185. Argued October 12, 1926.-Decided November 1, 1926.
1. Under Jud. Code § 238, as amended by Act of Feb. 13, 1925, a
decree of the District Court is not appealable directly to this
Court on constitutional grounds alone, but only in cases falling
within the acts or parts of acts enumerated in that section as
amended. P. 319.
2. Section 266, which is enumerated in and amended by § 238,
authorizes a direct appeal to this Court from the final decree of
the District Court granting a permanent injunction in a suit to

