MOORE v. FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO.
312

Syllabus.

land." Those principles are applicable alike in all the
States and do not depend upon or vary with local legislation. Castillo v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674, 682-683;
West v. Louisiana, 194 U. S. 258, 261-263; Patterson v.
Colorado, 205 U. S. 454, 459; Pullman Co. v. Knott, 235
U. S. 23, 25; Enterprise Irrigation District v. Farmers
Mutual Canal Co., 243 U. S. 157, 166. The Supreme
Court of the State having held that the two statutes must
be taken together in determining the penalty intended
we must accept that conclusion as if written into the
statutes themselves. Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas
Co., 220 U. S. 61, 73. All that would be open in this
Court under the due process clause is whether the State
had power to impose the penalty fixed by the statutes
as thus construed. Rawlins v. Georgia, 201 U. S. 638,
640. That the State had such power is not questioned,
but only that the statutes rightly construed show that
the power has been exercised. On this question, as we
have said, the decision of the Supreme Court of the State
is controlling.
Judgment affirmed.
MOORE, COMMISSIONER, v. FIDELITY & DEPOSIT COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF OREGON.

No. 185. Argued October 12, 1926.-Decided November 1, 1926.
1. Under Jud. Code § 238, as amended by Act of Feb. 13, 1925, a
decree of the District Court is not appealable directly to this
Court on constitutional grounds alone, but only in cases falling
within the acts or parts of acts enumerated in that section as
amended. P. 319.
2. Section 266, which is enumerated in and amended by § 238,
authorizes a direct appeal to this Court from the final decree of
the District Court granting a permanent injunction in a suit to

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

restrain enforcement of an order of a state administrative board
upon the ground of unconstitutionality, only where the case was,
and was required to be, heard before three judges because the
application for a preliminary injunction was pressed. P. 320.
Appeal from 3 F. (2d) 652, dismissed.

from a final decree of the District Court (one
judge sitting) granting a permanent injunction in a suit
by indemnity insurance companies to enjoin a state insurance commissioner from carrying out a threat to annul
their licenses for failure to obey an order cancelling their
authority to issue a certain kind of policy. The prayer
for a preliminary injunction was not pressed.
APPEAL

Miss Grace E. Smith, Assistant Attorney General of
Oregon, with whom Messrs. I. H. Van Winkle, Attorney
General, and Willi§ S. Moore, Assistant Attorney General,
were on the brief, for the appellant.
Mr. John S. Coke, with whom Mr. Franklin T. Griffith
was on the brief, for the appellees.

MIR.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Three companies licensed to do business in Oregon
brought this suit against its insurance commissioner in
the federal court for that State. The bill alleges that a
former commissioner had authorized these companies to
issue indemnity bonds, commonly called "Confiscation
Coverage," by which those who sell automobiles on conditional sale are insured against loss arising from their
confiscation for violation of law; that the defendant has
entered an order cancelling this authorization, on the
ground that insurance of this nature is void as against
public policy because it serves to encourage the transportation of intoxicating liquors in violation of law; and
that he has threatened to annul the plaintiffs' licenses,
unless they refrain entirely from writing such indemnity

MOORE v. FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO.
317

Opinion of the Court.

bonds. The bill charges that the defendant's action is
in excess of the powers conferred upon him by the statutes
of the State; and that his wrongful acts will, unless restrained, deprive plaintiffs of their property without due
process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The bill prays for both a preliminary and a permanent
injunction.
The defendant moved to dismiss the bill, on the ground
that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action. The motion was overruled. An answer was
filed. Parts of it were stricken out on plaintiff's motion.
What remained admitted substantially all the allegations
of the bill. The case was then heard further by a single
judge, who on May 18, 1925, entered a final decree for an
injunction. The constitutional question presented by the
bill was not passed upon. The decision was rested solely
upon the ground that the order complained of was in
excess of the powers conferred by the statutes upon the
insurance commissioner. 3 F. (2d) 652. An appeal to
this Court was allowed by the District Judge. A motion
having been made to advance the case for argument, this
Court, of its own motion, entered a rule that the appellant
show cause why the appeal should not be dismissed for
lack of jurisdiction in this Court. Upon return to the
rule, the case was set for argument.
The bill invoked the jurisdiction of the federal court
on the ground of diversity of citizenship as well as on the
ground that plaintiffs' constitutional rights were threatened. Although the constitutional question raised was
not passed upon by the District Court, the allegations of
the bill would have supplied the basis for a direct appeal
under § 238 of the Judicial Code before that section
was amended by Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43
Stat. 936, 938. Compare Winchester v. Winchester
Water Works, 251 U. S. 192, 193. But § 238 was so far
changed by that Act, that now there is no right to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

direct appeal on constitutional grounds alone; the right
exists now only in cases falling within the provisions enumerated in that section as amended. Otherwise the case
must go in the first instance to the Circuit Court of
Appeals and may come here only for review of that court's
action. See Application of Buder, 271 U. S. 461.
The Act of 1925 applies, as the decree of which review
is sought was entered after May 13, 1925. Among the
provisions enumerated in § 238 as amended, is § 266 of
the Judicial Code. It is contended that this case falls
within the latter section. It was amended by the addition of the following provision: "The requirement respecting the presence of three judges shall also apply to
the final hearing in such suit in the district court; and
a direct appeal to the Supreme Court may be taken from
a final decree granting or denying a permanent injunction in such suit." Appellant contends that this appeal
lies under § 266, because the order of the insurance commissioner is an order of an administrative board; and the
suit is one which seeks relief by way of "interlocutory
injunction suspending or restraining . . . the enforcement . . . of an order made by an administrative board
. . . acting under and pursuant to the statutes of such
State . . . upon the ground of unconstitutionality ... "
In the case at bar there was an attack upon the order
of the insurance commissioner "upon the ground of unconstitutionality" within the meaning of § 266. Oklahoma Natural Gas Co. v. Russell, 261 U. S. 290, 292. It
may be assumed that the order was action of an administrative board within the meaning of that section. Compare Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Tafoya, 270 U. S. 426.
But the prayer for a preliminary injunction was not
pressed; nor was there any request that the case be heard
by a court consisting of three judges, which would have
been necessary under § 266 if the prayer had been pressed.
That section as originally enacted applied only where
interlocutory relief was actually sought, regardless of the

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
317

321

Syllabus.

scope of the bill. Its purpose was to minimize, in an important class of cases, the delay incident to a review of
a decree granting or denying an interlocutory injunction.
The general purpose of the Act of 1925 was to relieve
this Court by limiting further the absolute right to a
review by it. There is nothing in the provision added
by that Act to § 266 which indicates a purpose to extend
the application of that section-either as to the requirement of three judges or as to the right to a direct appealto a case in which an interlocutory injunction was not
actually applied for. The occasion for the provision was
considered in the Buder case. It authorizes a direct appeal to this Court from the final decree of the district
court only where an application was made for an interlocutory injunction and the case was heard before three
judges.
Dismissed.
UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE AUTOMOBILE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 115. Argued December 9, 1925; reargued October 19, 20,
1926.--Decided November 22, 1926.
1. Where property declared by a federal statute to be forfeited
because used in violation of federal law is seized by one having
no authority to do so, the United States may adopt the seizure
with the same effect as if it had originally been made by one duly
authorized. P. 325.
2. An automobile, seized while being used for the purpose of depositing or concealing tax-unpaid illicit liquors with intent to defraud
the United States of the taxes imposed thereon, is forfeitable under
Rev. Stats. § 3450, and the interests of innocent persons in the
vehicle are thereby divested. P. 325.
3. Intoxicating liquor, though made for beverage purposes in violation of the National Prohibition Act, is subject to tax. Supplementary Prohibition Act of Nov. 23, 1921, considered, and Revenue
Act of 1921. P. 326.
23468°-27-21

