OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

the mind and morals of those into whose hands it might
fall."
Notwithstanding the inexcusable action of petitioner in
sending these advertisements to refined women, it is not
possible for us to conclude that the indictment charges
an offense within the meaning of the statute as construed
by the opinion just cited. The motion to quash should
have been sustained by the trial court.
The judgment below must be reversed and the cause
remanded to the District Court, Western District of
Texas, for further proceedings in harmony with this
opinion.
Reversed.
VIRGINIAN

RAILWAY

COMPANY

v. UNITED

STATES ET AL.

UNITED STATES ET AL. v. VIRGINIAN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

Nos. 281, 282. Argued October 29, 1926.-Decided December 13,
1926.
1. Whether a rate is unjustly discriminatory is a question on which
the finding of the Interstate Commerce Commission, supported by
substantial evidence, is conclusive, unless there was some irregularity in the proceeding or some error in the application of rules of
law. P. 663.
2. The fact that the purpose of a carrier in making a trackage arrangement with another is to increase its own business, is not a
legal excuse for unjust discrimination in through rates, resulting
from the arrangement, among shippers on the carrier's line. P. 663.
3. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission for abatement
of unjust discrimination among shippers on a carrier's line, resulting from a trackage arrangement, may be directed to that carrier
as well as to the other with which the arrangement exists, although
the latter alone may be responsible for the rates granted the
favored shippers. P. 665.

VIRGINIAN RY. v. UNITED STATES.
658

Statement of the Case.

4. A finding of the Commission that a rate is unreasonable, is binding
on this Court, when supported by evidence, without regard to the
soundness of the Commission's reasoning and conclusions or their
consistency with findings in other proceedings. P. 665.
5. Section 15(3) of the Act to Regulate Commerce does not require
that the Commission make a special finding of public interest, before it can prescribe how an existing through rate found to be
unreasonable and discriminatory shall be made conformable to
law. P. 666.
6. The fact that an order of the Commission requiring a carrier to
establish through rates from its lines over lines of two other carriers may result, through duplication of routes, in discrimination
against shippers on lines of those carriers, does not make it unreasonable or otherwise illegal. P. 667.
7. The force and effect of a decree of a federal court dismissing a bill
and dissolving an interlocutory injunction are not suspended as a
mere consequence of an appeal to this Court, even if a supersedeas
is allowed. P. 668.
S. Under the Act of October 22, 1913, the District Court of three
judges has power to grant a stay of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission pending appeal to this Court from a decree
refusing a temporary injunction and dismissing the bill. P. 668.
9. The Act of 1913, in this respect, is in pari materia with § 266 of
the Judicial Code, and to be similarly construed. P. 671.
10. A stay of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission pending appeal from a decree refusing an injunction, is not a matter
of right, even if irreparable injury may otherwise result to the
appellant, and requires much stronger and more special reasons for
its justification when the decree has dismissed the bill on the merits
than where it is interlocutory. P.672.
11. When not otherwise apparent to the parties and the appellate
court, the grounds of a decision of the District Court should be
indicated by an opinion-particularly in equity matters involving
complicated facts. P. 675.
No. 281, affirmed.
No. 282, reversed.

Cioss appeals from a decree of the District Court refusing a temporary injunction and dismissing the bill, in
a suit against the United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission to enjoin an order of the latter respecting rates on coal. The appeal of the defendants was from

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

so much of the decree as restrained enforcement of the
order pending the perfecting and determination of the
primary appeal.
Mr. James W. Carmalt, with whom Messrs. E. TV.
Knight and W. H. T. Loyall were on the brief, for the
Virginian Railway Co.
Mr. BlackburnEsterline, Assistant to the Solicitor General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. P. J. Farrellfor the Interstate Commerce Commission.

Mr. Ewing H. Scott filed a brief in behalf of the Gulf
Coal Co. et al., interveners.
MR. JuSTIc=

BRANDEIs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
An extensive territory in.West Virginia comprising the
coal mining districts known as New River, Tug River and
Pocahontas is served by three railroad systems. Each
grants blanket rates to destination from the mines within
the district served by it. The blanket rates to each destination are the same on all the systems. Two of them,
the Chesapeake & Ohio and the Norfolk & Western, have
lines extending from the Atlantic Ocean to the Middle
West. The line of the third, the Virginian, extends only
eastward to tidewater. Some mines in the district are
served directly by only one of these railroads, some by
more. Ninety-nine mines are located only on the Virginian. Of these 45 enjoy, by reason of the trackage
agreements to be described, the same rates to the West as
do mines on the Chesapeake & Ohio and on the Norfolk &
Western. The remaining 54 are denied the opportunity
of reaching the western markets.
Some of the 54 made complaint to the Interstate Commerce Commission that they are denied access to the

VIRGINIAN RY. v. UNITED STATES.
658

Opinion of the Court.

western markets; and sought relief under both § 1 and
§ 3 of the Act to Regulate Commerce. For most of these
54 mines access to these markets was and is physically
possible through a junction of the Virginian and the
Chesapeake & Ohio. But that route is closed commercially, because these two carriers have not established any
joint rates to the West from any of these 54 mines; and
the combination of the Virginian's local rate from the
mines to the junction with the Chesapeake & Ohio's rates
from the junction to the West, results in charges so high
as to be prohibitive. The complainants contended before
the Commission that the existing rate schedule to the
West subjects them to unjust discrimination and, also,
that the combination rates are unreasonable. To establish the discrimination, the shippers relied, among other
things, upon the fact that 45 other mines located only on
the Virginian enjoy the favorable blanket rates to the
West. To establish the unreasonableness, they showed,
among other things, that mines, similarly situated, located only on the Chesapeake & Ohio and on the Norfolk
& Western enjoy those rates.
The Chesapeake & Ohio did not oppose granting to the
54 mines the relief sought. The Virginian resisted strenuously. The complete record of the proceedings before the
Commission occupies 713 pages of the printed record in
this Court, besides 67 exhibits, many of them elaborate,
one covering 89 pages. The proceedings before the Commission, begun on May 15, 1922, did not close until February, 1923. The proposed report of the examiner was
served on April 30, 1924, was submitted to Division 3
of the Commission on June 30, 1924, and its original report was filed on March 10, 1925. The Commission found
that the existing rates from the mines in question subjected the shippers to undue prejudice and also that the
rates were themselves unreasonable. Wyoming Coal Co.
v. Virginian Raziway Co., 96 I. C. C. 359; 98 I. C. C.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

488. It ordered the carriers "according as they participate in the transportation" to cease and desist from collecting, for the transportation of coal from certain stations on the Virginian Railway to interstate destinations
in the West, rates which exceed those to be prescribed
pursuant to the order; and then directed the carriers to
establish "rates which shall not exceed the district rates
maintained on like traffic" by those carriers respondents to
the same destinations "from mines in the New River districts of the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company, and the
Virginian Railway Company, respectively, and the Pocahontas and Tug River districts of the Norfolk & Western
Railway Company, those districts forming part of what
is generally referred to as the Outer Crescent." See Bituminous Coal to Central Freight Association Territory,
46 I. C. C. 66, 69. A petition for reargument before the
whole Commission was denied on April 14, 1925; but an
amended report and order was filed on May 19, 1925.
This suit was brought by the Virginian against the
United States, the Interstate Commerce Commission, and
the Chesapeake & Ohio, in the federal court for the
Southern District of West Virginia, to enjoin the enforcement of the order and to set it aside. All three defendants answered, the Chesapeake & Ohio asserting its readiness to comply with the Commission's order. Several coal
companies intervened as defendants. The case was heard,
on May 28, 1925, before three judges upon application for
an interlocutory injunction and also upon final hearing.
The order was assailed mainly on the ground that the
findings made were unsupported by evidence. It was also
contended, among other things, that findings essential to
the relief granted had not been made. Besides the full
transcript of the proceedings before the Commission, the
Virginian introduced, under objection, some additional
evidence in support of a claim that the order should be
set aside because of certain facts occurring since it was

VIRGINIAN RY. v. UNITED STATES.
658

Opinion of the Court.

entered. On September 19, 1925, the court entered a final
decree denying the injunction and dismissing the bill on
the merits. No opinion, written or oral, was delivered.
Before entry of the decree, the Virginian indicated an
intention to appeal and asserted that irreparable damage
would result, pending the appeal, if the decree should be
reversed. Thereupon, the District Court included in the
final decree a clause restraining enforcement of the Commission's order pending the perfecting and determination
of the appeal. No. 282 is a cross-appeal by the United
States and the Commission from so much of the decree as
restrains enforcement of the Commission's order pending
the appeal. No. 281 is the appeal by the Virginian, under
the Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220, from
so much of the decree as denied the injunction and dismissed the bill. The contentions made by the Virginian
here seem to be the same that were made by it below;
and largely the same that it made before the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
First. The Virginian attacks the Commission's finding
of unjust discrimination. There clearly was substantial
evidence to support every fact specifically found. To consider the weight of the evidence before the Commission,
the soundness of the reasoning by which its conclusions
were reached, or whether the findings are consistent with
those made by it in other cases, is beyond our province.
Whether a rate is unjustly discriminatory is a question on
which the finding of the Commission, supported by substantial evidence, is conclusive, unless there was some
irregularity in the proceeding or some error in the application of rules of law. Western Paper Makers' Chemical
Co. v. UnitedStates, 271 U. S. 268. No irregularity in the
proceedings before the Commission is even suggested.
Second. The Virginian contends that the specific facts
found are, as matter of law, insufficient to support the
finding of undue prejudice. The facts material are these.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

Ever since the Virginian was constructed, it has adhered
to the policy of providing for the output of mines on its
line transportation only to tidewater. This policy is pursued, not only because it is deemed profitable to the company, but also because it enables the Virginian to furnish
to shippers the most efficient service at reasonable rates.
It has never held itself out as equipped to carry coal to the
West, or joined in joint rates to western markets. The 45
mines on its line which enjoy the blanket rates to the
West, have them as a natural result of certain trackage
agreements entered into by the Virginian with the Chesapeake & Ohio for an entirely different purpose. The purpose was to secure additional eastbound tonnage without
wasteful expenditure by paralleling branch lines. To be
able to secure the eastbound traffic from certain mines
located on independent lines connecting with the Chesapeake & Ohio, the Virginian, having acquired the independent lines, sought the right to use that system's tracks
to those mines. As compensation for the trackage rights
over the Chesapeake & Ohio, it gave that company the
right to use the Virginian's tracks to these 45 mines. The
carriers, instead of using these trackage rights by operating over the other's tracks, substituted, solely as a matter
of economy and convenience, a reciprocal switching arrangement. As a result, the Virginian hauls westbound
coal from these 45 mines to a junction with the Chesapeake & Ohio; the latter absorbs the switching charges of
the Virginian; and these mines enjoy the same rate to the
West as do those located on the Chesapeake & Ohio. But
the Virginian's purpose in making the traffic agreement
was solely to increase its eastbound traffic.
The fact that the Virginian's intention was not to give
the 45 mines a preference over others, but to increase its
*jwn eastbound business from mines located on the other
system, and that the preference resulting is merely an
incident of a legitimate effort to develop the carrier's east-

VIRGINIAN RY. v. UNITED STATES.
658

Opinion of the Court.

bound traffic, is not of legal significance. These 45 mines
to which the western market has been thus opened,
obviously, enjoy thereby an advantage over the 54 mines,
found to be similarly situated, to which the market is
closed. And the Commission has found that the preference is unjust. In essence, the situation is the same as
that considered in United States v. Illinois Central R. R.,
263 U. S. 515, 523, and United States v. Pennsylvania
R. R., 266 U. S. 191, 199. The contention that there can
be no order to remove the discrimination, because the
Virginian is in no legal sense responsible for the lower
western rates granted t< the favored mines, is likewise
disposed of by the earlier case. At pp. 520, 521.
Third. The Virginian contends that the evidence before the Commission does not support its finding that
the rates on coal from the Virginian's mines via the
Chesapeake & Ohio are unreasonable to the extent that
they exceed the New River district rates maintained by
the latter carrier from mines on its own and connecting
lines having no other outlet to the western markets. The
argument is that these rates can not be considered standards of reasonableness because, as the Commission declared in the present controversy, they are "the outcome
of competitive strain and stress through long periods
of development," and, as it had stated in an earlier
case, they have been made "in practical, if not absolute, disregard of distance, and all transportation conditions that ordinarily are taken into consideration in the
making of rates," and "are below the level at which
maximum reasonable rates might be maintained." Bituminous Coal to C. F. A. Territory, 46 I. C. C. 66, 122,
145. The finding of reasonableness, like that of undue
prejudice, is a determination of a fact by a tribunal
"informed by experience." Illinois Central R. R. Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Commission, 206 U. S. 441, 454.
This Court has no concern with the correctness of the

666

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 IT.S,

Commission's reasoning, with the soundness of its conclusions, or with the alleged inconsistency with findings
made in other proceedings before it. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 222 U. S.
541. rt was shown that a huge coal traffic moves from
this territory, under like operating conditions, at the
Jlanket rates which were voluntarily established by the
other carriers to serve mines similarly located. This fact,
and much else in the voluminous record, afford substantive evidence to support the finding that the existing
rates are unreasonable; and that those which the order
directs are reasonable.
Fourth. The Virginian contends that the order is void
because the Commission directed the establishment of
through routes and joint rates without finding that they
are necessary in the public interest. Such a finding is
essential to the validity of an order under § 15(3).
But the order here in question was not sought or made
under § 15(3) and does not direct the establishment
of through routes and joint rates. Through routes to
the West were already in existence. And there were
through rates by combination. See Through Routes and
Through Rates, 12 I. C. C. 163; Memphis FreightBureau
v. Fort Smith & W. R. R. Co., 13 I. C. C. 1, 8; Baer
Bros. M. Co. v. Mo. Pac. Ry. Co., 17 I. C. C. 225; Swift
& Co. v. Pa.R. R. Co., 29 I. C. C. 464; Lourie M'f'g Co.
v. Cincinnati2V. R. R. Co., 42 T. C. C. 448; Kansas City
Bd. of Trade v. A. T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 69 1. C. C. 185, 188189; St. Louis Southwestern Ry. v. United States, 245
U. S. 136, 139, note 2. The fact that the combination
rates were excessive constituted the only obstacle to the
movement. The Chesapeake & Ohio did not oppose
the reduction of its rates from the junction to the West.
It was willing that these 54 mines on the Virginian
should enjoy the rates already open to the other 45. The
Virginian resisted a reduction of its local rate to the

VIRGINIAN RY. v. UNITED STATES.
658

Opinion of the Court.

junction. The Commission found that the combination
rate was both unreasonable and discriminatory. It prescribed through rates which it found were reasonable and
nondiscriminatory. It did not order joint rates. And
no question of divisions was before the Commission. The
order was sought and made under § 1 and § 3. Section
15(3) does not require that the Commission must make
a special finding of public interest, before it can prescribe
how an existing through rate found to be unreasonable
and discriminatory shall be made conformable to law.Fifth. The Virginian contends that the order should
be set aside because of the following facts which occurred
after entry of the original order and before the hearing
below. An agreement to lease the Virginian to the Norfolk & Western for 999 years was approved by the respecIThus in many cases, as in the case at bar, the Commission has
found a combination through rate unreasonable or discriminatory as
an entirety, and has ordered it to be not higher than a specific
amount, without any finding of public interest. United Verde Extension Co. v. Director General, 57 I. C. C. 625; Gillespie Coal Co. v.
Ill. Traction System, 62 I. C. C. 335; Freight Bureau v. Beaumont,
etc., Ry. Co., 74 I. C. C. 601; Ariz. Corp. Comm. v. A. T. & S. F.
Ry. Co., 87 I. C. C. 271; Babbitt Bros. Trading Co. v. A. T. &
S. F. Ry. Co., 88 I. C. C. 614; Lone Star Gas Co. v. C. C. C. & St.
L. Ry. Co., 101 I. C. C. 465; Tioga Coal Co. v. B. & 0. R. R. Co.,
101 I. C. C. 611; Lookout Paint M'f'g Co. v. Mo. Pac. R. R. Co.,
101 I. C. C. 691; Illinois Oil Co. v. Cape GirardeauN. Ry. Co., 102
I. C. C. 154; Humble Oil & R. Co. v. L. & N. W. R. R. Co., 102
I. C. C. 761; Eriksen v. Ann Arbor R. R. Co., 102 I. C. C. 374;
Omaha Grain Exchange v. Atl. N. Ry. Co., 102 I. C. C. 533; Vera
Chem. Co. v. Ala. Cent. R. R. Co., 104 I. C. C. 40S; Marion Machine Co. v. Pa. R. R. Co., 104 I. C. C. 471; West Va. Paper Co. v.
B. & 0. R. R. Co., 104 I. C. C. 495; Wilson & Co. v. C. & 0. Ry.
Co., 104 I. C. C. 641. Compare Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce
v. C. C. C. & St. L. Ry. Co., 58 I. C. C. 515; Prairie Pipe Line Co.
v. Director General, 88 I. C. C. 167; J. D. Hollingshead Co. v. Deering S T. Ry. Co., 88 I. C. C. 659; Public Service Comm. v. A. T.
& S. F. Ry. Co., 88 I. C. C. 728; Caruso & Co. v. Ch. & Eastern
Ry. C., 102 1. C. C. 619.

668

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

tive boards of directors of the two companies; approval
by the stockholders was expected; and approval by the
Interstate Commerce Commission was hoped for. In
anticipation of such approval, the Virginian and the Norfolk & Western established and published through routes
and joint rates, from substantially all mines on the
Virginian to substantially all important markets in the
West. The Virginian then filed, on April 27, 1925, a
petition before the Commission to reopen the case and
raodify its order, so that the routes which had been
opened via the Norfolk & Western in partial compliance
with the order, should be accepted as the equivalent of
full compliance; and the requirement of routes and rates
via the Chesapeake & Ohio should be eliminated. That
petition was denied on May 11, 1925. The Virginian contends that, in view of these facts, the order requiring
transportation service also via the Chesapeake & Ohio is
so unreasonable as to transcend the limits of the Commission's discretion, among other reasons because, through
the duplication of routes not available to mines served
only by the Chesapeake & Ohio and the Norfolk & Western, respectively, it would give to mines on the Virginian
an undue preference and advantage. The argument urged
in this connection is appropriate for consideration by the
Commission, and has presumably been duly considered by
it. The fact that it has not proved persuasive affords no
basis for the contention that the Commission's action in
making the order was arbitrary or otherwise illegal.2
Sixth. The cross-appeal is directed to so much of the
final decree as stays enforcement of the Commission's
order pending the appeal. It is settled that the force and
effect of a decree of a federal court dismissing a bill and
dissolving an interlocutory injunction are not suspended
2On July 2, 1925, the Norfolk & Western applied to the Commission for an order under § 5, par. 2, authorizing it to acquire the Virg-ian by lease. The application was denied on October 11, 1926.

VIRGINIAN RY. v. UNITED STATES.
658

Opinion of the Court.

as a mere consequence of an appeal to this Court, even
if a supersedeas is allowed. Hovey v. McDonald, 109
U. S. 150, 161; Knox County v. Harshman, 132 U. S.
14. An injunction which was in terms dissolved by the
decree, or which expired by limitation, cannot be revived
to take effect during the pendency of an appeal' except by
a new exercise of power by a court having the authority.
Ordinarily such authority is vested in the lower federal
court, as well as in this Court. Under Equity Rule 74 the
judge who allows the appeal may, if he took part in the
decision of the cause, make, at the time of such allowance,
an order continuing an interlocutory injunction which
would otherwise be vacated. Merrimack River Savings
Bank v. Clay Center, 219 U. S. 527, 535. Prior to the
establishment of the Commerce Court, Act of June 18,
1910, c. 309,36 Stat. 539, the circuit courts had jurisdiction
of suits to enjoin or set aside orders of the Commission.
Compare Act of June 26, 1906, c. 3591, § 5, 34 Stat. 584,
590. As an incident of that jurisdiction, they had the
usual power to preserve the status quo pending an appeal.
The Government contends that the rule theretofore prevailing was abrogated by the Act of 1910; and that, because of similar provisions in the Act of October 22, 1913,
c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220, the power in question was not conferred upon the district courts.
The latter Act, which abolished the Commerce Court
and transferred to the district courts the jurisdiction in
this class of cases, requires that applieations for an interlocutory injunction to restrain the enforcement of an
order of the Commission be heard before three judges;
permits the issue by them, or a majority of them, of "a
temporary stay or suspension" of the Commission's order
for not more than sixty days pending the application for
an interlocutory injunction; similarly permits them "at
the time of hearing such application . . . [to] continue
the temporary stay or suspension . . . until decision

670

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U.S.

upon the application "; provides for expediting the hearing; and authorizes a direct appeal to this Court from
the order granting or denying the interlocutory injunction,
if taken within 30 days. Compare United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 225 U. S. 306, 322. The arguraent of the Government is that the thing of which the
cperation is suspended, pending the appeal, is not the
decree of the District Court, but the order of the Comraission-an independent federal tribunal; that, by the
language of the Act, the power of the district court to
suspend the operation of the Commission's order ends
with the "decision [in the district court] upon the application "; and that for these reasons, the customary power
of a court of equity to preserve the status qua is not
applicable to the suspension pending the appeal here
involved.
It is clear that this Court, or a justice thereof, has
power to grant a stay of the Commission's order pending
the appeal. The power was exercised by the full Court
in Omaha & Council Bluffs Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 222 U. S. 582, in a case coming from
the Commerce Court under the Act of 1910. Whether
the district court of three judges under the Act of 1913
possesses like power has never been considered by this
Court. The existence of the power was affirmed by a
divided district court in Louisville & N. R. R. Co. v.
United States, 227 Fed. 273, and the power was exercised to the extent of staying enforcement of the Commission's order until this Court should have the opportunity of determining, whether a stay pending the appeal
should be granted. The power has been exercised by the
district court in a few other instances. But in those
cases, although the Government objected to the action
taken, it did not take'a cross-appeal; and the question
was not considered or raised upon the argument before

VIRGINIAN RY. v. UNITED STATES.
658

Opinion of the Court.

this Court.' The question now presented was, however,
passed upon under similar legislation and conditions in
Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Louisiana
Public Service Commission, 260 U. S. 212. The practice
there held appropriate in a proceeding under § 266 of the
Judicial Code, must be held to be likewise authorized
under the Act of 1913.
Section 266 provides for the hearing before three judges
of applications for an interlocutory injunction to restrain
the execution of a state statute, or of an order of an administrative board of the State pursuant to a state statute, where the statute or order is assailed on the ground
that it violates the Federal Constitution. We declared in
the Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Co. case, p. 219,
that while this Court has power to grant a stay pending
the appeal, the district court acting through three judges,
or a majority of them, also possesses that power; and
that because such court is "best and most conveniently
able to exercise the nice discretion needed . . . the court
of three judges, who have heard the whole matter, have
read the record, and can pass on the issue [application for
a suspension pending the appeal] without additional
labor," the determination of the application will ordinarily
be left to it. The language of § 266 which limits the
3 Opinions have been written by this Court in 32 direct appeals from
decrees refusing to set aside orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission: 6 being from decrees of the Commerce Court under the Act
of 1910, 26 from decrees of the district court under the Act of 1913.
In 3 of those cases, the district court stayed the order of the Commission pending the appeal, either until this Court could pass upon
an application for such a stay, Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
United States, 227 Fed. 373; 242 U. S. 60; Central R. R. of New
Jersey v. United States, 257 U. S. 247; or until this Court should
decide the appeal, Lehigh Valley R. R. Co. v. United States, 243
U. S. 412. In one other case only was an application made to the
lower court for a stay pending the appeal, and that was denied, Colorado v. United States, 271 U. S. 153. In so far as the records show,
stays were not asked for below in the other 28 cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

power to grant the restraining order and the interlocutory
injunction is substantially the same as that employed in
the Act of October 22, 1913. The two statutes are in pari
materia. It is under § 266 that proceedings to enjoin the
enforcement of rate-orders of state railroad and public
utility commissions are commonly instituted.
The character of the proceeding and the end sought are
the same in the two statutes. The two provisions originated in the same Act. Section 266 is a codification of
§ 17 of the Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 557.
The provision of the Act of 1913, here in question, is an
adaptation to the district courts of § 3 of the Act of 1910,
which prescribed the procedure for such applications before the Commerce Court. No reason is suggested why
the rule governing in cases of appeals from the district
court under § 266 should not apply also to appeals from
those courts under the Act of 1913. Moreover, the latter
Act, in referring in the same connection to appeals from
final decrees, declares that "such appeals may be taken
in like manner as appeals are taken under existing law in
equity cases." Congress evidently deemed that it had
adequately guarded against the dangers incident to the
improvident issue of the writs of injunction in cases of
this character by the provisions which require action by
the court of three judges, which permit of expediting the
hearings before the district court, which shorten the
period of appeal, and which give a direct appeal to this
Court.
Seventh. The Government contends that, even if the
District Court had power to stay the order of the Commission pending the appeal in this Court, its action was
not warranted by the facts. A stay is not a matter of
right, even if irreparable injury might otherwise result to
the appellant. In re Haberman Manufacturing Co., 147
U. S. 525. It is an exercise of judicial discretion. The
propriety of its issue is dependent upon the circumstances

VIRGINIAN RY. v. UNITED STATES.
65S

Opinion of the Court.

of the particular case. An application to suspend the
operation of the Comnission's order pending an appeal
from a final decree dismissing the bill on the merits calls
for the exercise of discretion under circumstances essentially different from those which obtain when the application for a stay is made prior to a hearing of the application for an interlocutory injunction, or after the hearing
thereon but before the decision. In the two latter classes
of cases, if the bill seems to present to the court a serious
question, the fact that irreparable injury may otherwise
result to the plaintiff may, as an exercise of discretion,
alone justify granting the temporary stay until there is an
opportunity for adequate consideration of the matters
involved. But to justify a stay pending an appeal from
a final decree refusing an injunction additional facts must
be shown. For the decree creates a strong presumption
of its own correctness and of the validity of the Commission's order. This presumption ordinarily entitles defendant carriers and the public to the benefits which the order
was intended to secure.
In this class of cases an appeal bond can rarely indemnify fully even private parties to the litigation for the loss
of the benefits of which the stay deprived them; and the
public would usually be left wholly remediless. To justify
granting the stay after a final decree sustaining the Commission's order, it must appear either that the district
court entertains a serious doubt as to the correctness of its
own decision; or that the decision depends upon a question of law on which there is conflict among the courts of
the several circuits; or that some other special reason
exists why the order of the Commission ought not to become operative until its validity can be considered by this
Court.'
' See Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Railroad Commission, 208
Fed. 35, 57-60; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. United States, 227
Fed. 273; Corona Coal Co. v. Southern Ry. Co., 266 Fed. 726, 735.
Compare Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards, 82 Fed. 850, 857;
:.;:I I's

--

-- -- 3

674

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

The District Court made no finding or statement bearing
upon its exercise of discretion in suspending the operation
of the Commission's order, except the recital in the decree
that from all the evidence in the case it is "of opinion
• . . that irreparable damage will result to the complainant pending such appeal if this decree shall be reversed on
appeal." We must therefore look elsewhere in the record
for additional facts necessary to justify the suspension.
We fail to find-any. The suit was of a character deemed
by Congress of such importance that it had made special
provision for both adequate and speedy consideration.
The strenuousness of the contest and the extensive record
made clear the importance of .the case not only to the
mines and carriers directly concerned but also to the consuming public in the western markets. It was clear that
the appeal bond could not indemnify the Virginian mines
or the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad for the loss resulting
from a stay, and also that the public might suffer losses
for which there would be no remedy. The decree was not
entered until nearly four months after the hearing-that
period being doubtless required for adequate consideration
of the voluminous record. No opinion, written or oral
was delivered. In view of the importance of the litigation,
we interpret the absence of an opinion as tantamount to
a declaration that upon careful scrutiny of the record
the questions presented for judicial determination appeared to be simple; or, at all events, that the case did
not involve the determination of any question of law
which was novel or as to which there was, or could be,
reasonable doubt. The decree of the District Court was
not unanimous; but this fact alone would not justify a
stay. For aught that appears, the District Court may
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Wright, 168 Fed. 558, 559; Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co. v. Suer, 186 Fed. 176, 203; Rail & River Coal
Co. v. Yaple, 214 Fed. 273, 283; Chadeloid Chemical Co. v. H. B.
Chalmers Co., 242 Fed. 71, 72; Masses Publishing Co. v. Patten, 245
Fed. 102.

EASTERN TRANSP. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
65S

675

Syllabus.

have divided on some questions of fact, or on the construction of a document.' Under the circumstances appearing,
the suspension of the order pending the appeal was unwarranted. The objection to the decree asserted by the
Government in No. 282 must, therefore, be sustained.
Unless an opinion indicating the grounds of the decision
is delivered, a defeated party may often be unable to
determine whether the case presents a question worthy of
consideration by the appellate court. This is particularly
true, where the case is in equity and the decree is entered
upon a hearing involving complicated facts. For being
in equity, matters of fact as well as of law are reviewable;
and the reviewable issues of law are rarely sharply defined by requests for rulings. The failure to accompany
the decree by an opinion may thus deprive litigants of the
means of exercising a sound judgment on the propriety of
an appeal. And the appellate court, being without knowledge of the grounds of the decision below, is denied an
important aid in the consideration of the case, and will
ordinarily be subjected to much unnecessary labor.
No. 281-Decree affirmed as to matter appealedfrom.
No. 282-Decreereversed as to matter appealedfrom.
EASTERN TRANSPORTATION COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA

No. 57. Argued December 7, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.
1. Abandonment within the thirty day period set by the Act of
March 3, 1899, will not be presumed of a wreck left in a navigable
5

So far as the record discloses, the stay included in the final decree
was not a continuation of a temporary restraining order, but a matter
wholly original. Apparently, no restraining order issued prior to the
final decree. The matter is not referred to in any of the briefs.

