398

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Decree.

272 U. S.

MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
IN EQUITY.

No. 9, Original. Decree entered November 22, 1926.
Decree fixing boundary between Michigan and Wisconsin and dividing costs equally between the parties. [See opinion, 270 U. S. 295.]

Decree announced by MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND.
This cause having been heard and submitted upon certain questions, and the Court having considered the same
and announced its conclusions in an opinion delivered
March 1, 1926 (270 U. S. 295),
Now for the purpose of carrying the said opinion into
effect, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed:
1. That the boundary between the States of Michigan
and Wisconsin along the following course be and it is
hereby fixed and finally established as follows:
From Lake Superior through the middle of the main
channel of the Montreal River, to the headwaters thereof,
as established in the survey of Captain Cram at the
junction of the Pine River and Balsam Creek (also
known as Lehman's Creek), thence along the line of the
survey of William A. Burt of 1847, to the center of the
channel between Middle and South Islands in the Lake of
the Desert, thence continuing along the line of said survey to the shore of Lake Brul6, thence along the southerly shore of Lake Brul6 to the center of the main channel
of the River Brul6, thence down the center of the main
channel of the rivers Brul6 and Menominee, to the center
of the harbor entrance of said Menominee River, thence
in a direct line to the most usual ship channel of Green
Bay, passing to the north of Green Island and westerly

MICHIGAN v. WISCONSIN.
398

Decree.

of Chambers Island and through the Rock Island Passage
into Lake Michigan, by courses and distances as follows:
From a point midway between the outer ends of the
Menominee River piers, thence east by south, seven and
one-half miles to the center of the most usual ship channel of the Green Bay, thence along said ship channel
north by east one-eighth east, eight and seven-eighths
miles, thence continuing along said ship channel north by
east seven-eighths east, twenty-seven miles, thence continuing along said ship channel, east one-fourth north,
ten and one-fourth miles, thence east three-fourths north
to the boundary between the State of Michigan and the
State of Wisconsin in the middle of Lake Michigan. Provided, that the section of the boundary in the Brul6 and
Menominee rivers shall follow the main channel thereof,
except that where islands occur in the Brul6 River or in
the Menominee River, down to and inclusive of the Quinnesec Falls, extending to the line between sections 5 and
6, Township 38 north, of Range 20 east, of the Wisconsin
Public Survey, extended across said river, the line shall
pass through the channel nearest the Wisconsin bank, so
as to throw all such islands into Michigan; and where
islands occur in the Menominee River below the Quinnesec Falls, the line shall pass through the channel nearest
the Michigan bank, so as to throw all such islands into
Wisconsin. Provided further, that the land known as
"Merryman's Island," being surveyed as part of sections
20 and 29, Township 36 north, of Range 28 west, of the
Michigan Public Survey, and the land known as "Sugar
Island," being a part of lots 1 and 2, Section 11, lot 6 of
Section 2, and lot 1 of Section 3, Township 31 north, of
Range 27 west, of the Michigan Public Survey, is determined to be part of the mainland of Michigan.
The costs of this proceeding in this Court shall be
divided equally between the parties.

