OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

the Insular Collector has rendered an opinion that was
final by reason of a failure of either party to appeal to the
court therefrom, it is his duty to countersign the warrant
and such a duty may be controlled by mandamus.
Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 524; Work v. United
States ex rel. McA lester-Edwards Coal Co., 262 U. S. 200;
Work v. United States ex rel. Mosier, 261 U. S. 352.
We may add that such a conclusion is quite in keeping
with the functions of the Auditors of the Treasury and
the Comptroller of the Treasury of the United States,
a comparison which is constantly used in the Philippine
statutes. Neither the Auditors nor the Comptroller of
the Treasury of the United States are vested with authority to decide questions of classification of duties under
tariff acts. Those are considered and disposed of, first by
the Collectors of Customs, then by appeal after written
notice to a Board of General Appraisers, and then by a
review by the Court of Customs Appeals. Act of June
10, 1890, 26 Stat. 131, 136, c. 407, § 12; Act of May 27,
1908, 35 Stat. 403, 406, c. 205, § 3; Act of August 5, 1909,
36 Stat. 11, 98, c. 6, § 28; Act of September 21, 1922, 42
Stat. 858, 970, c. 356, Title IV, § 515. Under certain
limitations a further review may be had in this Court.
Act of August 22, 1914, 38 Stat. 703, c. 267.
The judgment of the Philippine Supreme Court is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. STORRS ET AL.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR TIE
DISTRICT OF UTAH.

No. 95.

Argued November 24, 1926.-Decided December 13, 1926.

A plea to abate an indictment because of the presence of a court
stenographer at the grand jury investigation and of improper participation in the proceedings by the district attorney, does not cease
to be a plea in abatement and become a plea in bar, ithin the

UNITED STATES v. STORRS.
652

Opinion of the Court.

meaning of the Criminal Appeals Act, from the circumstance that
by the time when it was sustained the statute of limitations had
intervened to prevent further prosecution. P. 654.
Writ of error dismissed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court sustaining a

plea and abating an indictment.
Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. William D. Whitney,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. Albert R. Barnes, with whom Messrs. Mahlon E.
Wilson and Dan B. Shields were on the brief, for the
defendants in error.
AIR. JUSTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The defendants in error were indicted for conspiracy
to violate and violation of § 215 of the Penal Code, punishing use of the mails for the purpose of executing a
scheme to defraud. They pleaded in abatement that
when the grand jurors were investigating the charge
the official court stenographer was present and took down
the evidence; that the district attorney was also present
and undertook to give a summary of the evidence to the
grand jurors, and that he advised them that any indictment, if found, must be against all the defendants named.
On these grounds it was prayed that the indictment be
abated and that the defendants should not be required
to answer the same. The District Court overruled a demurrer, sustained the plea on the evidence and entered
judgment that the indictment be abated. It is certified
in the record that when the judgment was entered the
statute of limitations had run and that therefore the
United States will be barred from further prosecution of
the defendants. The United States brings this writ of

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

error on the ground that in these circumstances the plea
was in substance a 'special plea in bar' within the meaning of the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907; c.
2564; 34 Stat. 1246.
It is true that there is less strictness now in dealing
with a plea in abatement than there was a hundred years
ago. The question is less what it is called than what
it is. But while the quality of an act depends upon its
circumstances, the quality of the plea depends upon its
contents. As was said at the argument, it cannot be that
a plea filed a week earlier is what it purports to be, and
in its character is, but a week later becomes a plea in
bar because of the extrinsic circumstance that the statute
of limitations has run. The plea looks only to abating
the indictment not to barring the action. It has no
greater effect in any circumstances. If another indictment cannot be brought, that is not because of the judgment on the plea, but is an independent result of a fact
having no relation to the plea and working equally
whether there was a previous indictment or not. The
statute uses technical words, 'a special plea in bar,' and
we see no reason for not taking them in their technical
sense. This plea is not a, plea in bar and the statute does
not cover the case.
The Government bases its argument upon United
States v. Thompson, 251 U. S. 407. In that case an indictment was quashed by the trial Court upon motion
on the ground that the same counts had been submitted
to a previous grand jury and no presentment had been
made, and that they could not be submitted to a second
grand jury without leave of Court, which had not been
obtained. It so happened that a further prosecution upon
these counts would be barred by the statute of limitations, although other counts had been presented in the
first case upon which a trial still might be had. This
Court held that the motion to quash amounted to a plea

DYSART v. UNITED STATES.
652

Syllabus.

in bar since the facts alleged barred any later proceeding
by the United States, according to the law laid down
by the trial Court, except upon a condition that was held
by this Court to be improperly imposed. Perhaps the
decision went to the extreme point, but it was put on
the contents of the plea seen in the light of the law
applied, not on the fact that the statute of limitations
had run. It was said that the United States had the
right to present and the grand jury had the right to
entertain the charges without leave of court and that the
necessary effect of this judgment "was to bar the absolute right of the United States to prosecute by subjecting the exercise of that right, not only as to this indictment but as to all subsequent ones for the same offenses,
to a limitation resulting from the exercise of the judicial
power upon which the judgment was based." 251 U. S.
912. It was added that the same was true as to the
authority of the district attorney and the powers of the
grand jury "since the exercise in both cases of lawful
authority was barred by the application of unauthorized
judicial discretion." We are of opinion that this decision
interposes no obstacle to what seems to us the natural
interpretation of the law.
Writ of error dismissed.
DYSART v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 102. Submitted November 23, 1926.--Decided December 13, 1926.
Letters advertising a home for the care and protection of pregnant

unmarried women and their infants are not "obscene, lewd or
lascivious," within § 211, Crim. Code, even when mailed, without
excuse, to refined women. Swearingen v. United States, 161 U. S.

446. P. 656.
4 F. (2d) 765, reversed.

