UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
317

321

Syllabus.

scope of the bill. Its purpose was to minimize, in an important class of cases, the delay incident to a review of
a decree granting or denying an interlocutory injunction.
The general purpose of the Act of 1925 was to relieve
this Court by limiting further the absolute right to a
review by it. There is nothing in the provision added
by that Act to § 266 which indicates a purpose to extend
the application of that section-either as to the requirement of three judges or as to the right to a direct appealto a case in which an interlocutory injunction was not
actually applied for. The occasion for the provision was
considered in the Buder case. It authorizes a direct appeal to this Court from the final decree of the district
court only where an application was made for an interlocutory injunction and the case was heard before three
judges.
Dismissed.
UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE AUTOMOBILE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 115. Argued December 9, 1925; reargued October 19, 20,
1926.--Decided November 22, 1926.
1. Where property declared by a federal statute to be forfeited
because used in violation of federal law is seized by one having
no authority to do so, the United States may adopt the seizure
with the same effect as if it had originally been made by one duly
authorized. P. 325.
2. An automobile, seized while being used for the purpose of depositing or concealing tax-unpaid illicit liquors with intent to defraud
the United States of the taxes imposed thereon, is forfeitable under
Rev. Stats. § 3450, and the interests of innocent persons in the
vehicle are thereby divested. P. 325.
3. Intoxicating liquor, though made for beverage purposes in violation of the National Prohibition Act, is subject to tax. Supplementary Prohibition Act of Nov. 23, 1921, considered, and Revenue
Act of 1921. P. 326.
23468°-27-21

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Statement of the Case.

272 U. S.

4. The basic tax of $2.20 per gallon imposed by the Revenue Acts
on liquor illegally produced is not to be treated as a penalty, but
is a tax within the meaning of Rev. Stats. § 3450, and being unpaid
makes that section applicable, even if the additional amounts imposed by the Acts were deemed penalties. P. 328.
5. There is no constitutional objection to enforcing a penalty by
forfeiture of an offending article. P. 329.
6. In a forfeiture proceeding, on certiorari to a judgment quashing
the libel on motion of a claimant, the allegations in the claim will
not be considered. The allegations of the libel are accepted as true.
P. 329.
7. Under Rev. Stats. § 3450, if the intent to defraud the United
States of the tax is established by any competent evidence, a use
of the vehicle for the purpose of concealing the liquor suffices, even
if the offender obtained it, not from a distillery, bonded warehouse
or importer, but from a stranger. P. 329.
8. Rev. Stats. § 3450, providing that: "Whenever any goods
... in respect whereof any fax is or shall be imposed ...
are removed, or are deposited or concealed in any place, with
intent to defraud the United States of such tax . . .; [every]
.. . conveyance whatsoever, . . . used in the removal or for the

deposit or concealment thereof, respectively, shall be forfeited,"
is not in conflict with or superseded by § 26 of Title II of
the National Prohibition Act, which provides for the seizure and
forfeiture, in certain cases, of vehicles used in illegally transporting intoxicating liquors but saves the interests of innocent persons.
P. 330.
9. In view of § 5 of the Supplemental Prohibition Act, an implied
repeal by that Act or the National Prohibition Act, of Rev. Stats.
§ 3450, could not result from mere inconsistency but must rest
upon a direct conflict. P. 331.
10. Section 26, Title II, of the National Prohibition Act, in its relation to the forfeiture of vehicles, applies only to cases incident to
the prosecution of persons transporting liquor in violation of that
Act, and does not protect innocent persons whose vehicles are forfeited under Rev. Stats. § 3450. P. 332.
11. Section 26, supra,applies only where a person is discovered in the
act of transporting intoxicating liquor in violation of law. P. 333.
4 F. (2d) 528, reversed.

LIBEL to forfeit an automobile under Rev. Stats. § 3450,
on the ground of use with intent to defraud the United

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
321

323

Opinion of the Court.

States of the tax on distilled spirits found therein, by
depositing and concealing the liquor. The Garth Motor
Company intervened as claimant. A judgment of the
District Court quashing the libel was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. Certiorari was granted, 268
U. S. 687.
Assistant Attorney General Willebrandt, for the United
States, on the original argument, Solicitor General
Mitchell for the United States on the reargument. Mr.
Mahlon D. Kiefer, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was also on the briefs.
Mr. Duane R. Dills, with whom Messrs. William S.
Pritchard, John TV. Creekmur, Phillip W. Haberman,
and Frank H. Towsley were on the brief, for the
claimant.
AIR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a proceeding, commenced in the federal court
for Northern Alabama, under Revised Statutes of the
United States, § 3450, to forfeit an automobile "said
to belong to Garth Motor Company," on the ground that
it was being used with intent to defraud the United
States of the tax on distilled spirits found therein by
depositing and concealing the liquor.' The libel, which
was filed in September, 1923, recites that it is "a case of
seizure on land under the internal revenue laws of the
United States." The company intervened as claimant
and moved to quash the libel. It also filed a claim by
which it asserted title to the automobile and denied
1 " Whcnever any goods . . . in respect whereof any tax is or shall be
imposed . . . are removed, or are deposited or concealed in any place,
with intent to defraud the United States of such tax . . ; [every]
...conveyance whatsoever ....
used in the removal or for the deposit or concealment thereof, respectively, shall be forfeited .... "

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

knowledge or notice, prior to seizure, that the automobile was being used or was to be used in any illegal manner. No action was ever taken on the claim. The motion to quash was allowed; and upon that motion alone
the District Court entered judgment dismissing the libel.
The judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, 4 F. (2d) 528. The case is
here on writ of certiorari, 268 U. S. 687.
The libel alleges that on August 11, 1923, the federal
prohibition director for Alabama had seized the automobile in the possession of one Killian being used by
him "for the purpose of depositing and concealing certain illicit distilled spirits" on which "the taxes imposed
by law had not been paid" with "intent . . . to defraud the United States of such taxes"; alleges that the
automobile is forfeit under § 3450; and prays relief
thereunder. To the libel is attached, and made part
thereof, a complaint, dated August 13, 1923, by a federal prohibition agent. In that complaint, the affiant
charged, with specification, only that Killian unlawfully
had there in his possession 27 quarts of rye whisky, in
violation of § 29 of Title II of the National Prohibition
Act, October 28, 1919, c. 85, 41 Stat. 305, 316; and he
prayed that Killian "may be apprehended and further
dealt with according to law." The complaint made no
reference to removal or transportation of liquor; nor to
the use of a vehicle for such purpose; nor to any seizure;
nor to § 26 of the Prohibition Act. It did not even
mention an automobile or other vehicle. Nor did the
libel state that a warrant issued on the complaint; or
that Killian had been arrested or in any way prosecuted
for any alleged violation of the Prohibition Act; or that
his whereabouts was known.
The sole question for decision is, whether an automobile, which was seized by a prohibition agent, may be forfeited under § 3450 if it was being used for the purpose

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
321

325

Opinion of the Court.

of depositing or concealing tax-unpaid illicit liquors with
the intent to defraud the United States of the taxes imposed thereon. Obviously, the mere fact that the seizure of the automobile had been made by the prohibition
director (instead of by an internal revenue officer) does
not preclude the possibility of a proceeding to forfeit
under § 3450. It is settled that where property declared
by a federal statute to be forfeited because used in violation of federal law is seized by one having no authority
to do so, the United States may adopt the seizure with
the same effect as if it had originally been made by one
duly authorized. The Caledonian, 4 Wheat. 100, 101;
Taylor v. United States, 3 How. 197, 205. See United
States v. One Studebaker Seven-Passenger Sedan, 4 F.
(2d) 534.
The serious question presented is whether there is such
a direct conflict between the National Prohibition Act,
and particularly § 26 of Title II thereof, and § 3450 of
the Revised Statutes, as to render the latter section inoperative and unavailable to the Government, where the
vehicle was being used for the purpose of depositing and
concealing illicitly distilled liquors under the circumstances set forth ift the libel. On this question there has
been much difference of opinion in the lower courts.2 If
a forfeiture may be had under § 3450 for such use of a
vehicle to evade a tax on illicitly distilled liquor, the
interests of innocent persons in the vehicle are not saved.
If § 26 is the only applicable provision for forfeiture of
the car, the interests of those who are innocent are not
forfeited. The claimant contends, on several grounds,
See Commercial Credit Co. v. United States, 5 F. (2d) 1, and cases
there cited. Also United States v. Milestone, 6 F. (2d) 481; United
States v. One Reo Truck Automobile, 9 F. (2d) 529; National Bond
& Investment Co. v. United States, 8 F. (2d) 942; United States v.
One Marmon Automobile, 5 F. (2d) 113; United States v. One Ford
Automobile, (U. S. D. C., E. & W. D., Tenn.) Feb. 27, 1925.
2

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

that § 3450 was not applicable and that the libel was
properly dismissed.
First. The claimant contends that, at the time of the
seizure, the law did not impose any tax upon liquor
illicitly made. Congress has power to tax such liquor.
United States v. Yuginovich, 256 U. S. 450, 462; United
States v. Stafoif, 260 U. S. 477, 480. By Rev. Stats.
§ 3248, the tax attaches to distilled spirits "as soon as
it is in "existence as such," United States Fidelity &
Guranty Co. v. United States, 220 Fed. 592; and upon
its production the tax becomes a first lien thereon.
United States v. Ulrici, 111 U. S. 38, 42. The Revenue
Act of 1918, February 24, 1919, c. 18, § 600, 40 Stat.
1057, 1105, lays the tax "on all distilled spirits now in
bond or that have been or that may be hereafter produced
in or imported into the United States." The provision
in § 600b of the Act, concerning liquor which could not
during the period of war-prohibition be lawfully sold
or removed, did not remit the tax; it merely deferred
the time for payment. It is clear that, before the enactment of the National Prohibition Act, it imposed the
basic production tax upon all distilled spirits, although
illicitly made.8
The continued existence of taxes upon illicit liquor
is indicated in § 35 of the National Prohibition Act
(p. 317), which provides: "This Act shall not relieve
anyone from paying any taxes or other charges imposed
upon the manufacture or traffic in such liquor." That
Congress in enacting that law would intentionally have
exempted illicit liquor from taxation is not likely.
Moreover, we are not dealing with the construction of
the law as enacted in 1919. The Willis-Campbell Act,
November 23, 1921, c. 134, § 5, 42 Stat. 222, 223, sup3

See also Rev. Stat. § 3251; Acts of March 3,1875, c. 127 § 1, 1
Stat. 339; August 27, 1894, c. 348, § 48, 28 Stat. 509, 563; October
3, 1917, c. 63, § 300, 40 Stat. 300, 308.

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
321

327

Opinion of the Court.

plemental thereto, continued in force or reenacted, by
express provision, all laws in regard to the taxation of
intoxicating liquor not directly in conflict with the prohibitory legislation. Furthermore, the Revenue Act of
1921, November 23, 1921, c. 136, § 600, 42 Stat. 227,
285, enacted on the same day, shows that Congress had
no intention then of relieving liquor from taxation
merely because illegally dealt with. For it provided
specifically that if distilled spirits, tax-paid for nonbeverage purposes, be diverted to beverage purposes, an
additional tax of $4.20 per gallon must be paid, although
under the law such diversion could not be made legally.
The claimant argues that it could not have been the
intention of Congress to impose the tax, because it had
become very difficult, if not impossible, to pay the tax.
The claimant points to the fact that the payment of
the tax contemplated by the revenue laws existing at
the time of the passage of the National Prohibition Act
was by means of tax-paid stamps to be affixed when
liquor Was withdrawn from the distillery or bonded warehouse, after complying with the minutely prescribed
proceedings incident to its manufacture and custody, set
forth in Taney v. Penn Bank, 232 U. S. 174, 181-184;
that, since the National Prohibition Act, there has been
no way in which the tax could be so paid on intoxicating liquor made for beverage purposes; that stamps are
no longer obtainable and no officer is authorized to receive payment. These supervening obstacles to paying
the tax do not, however, establish that the intention was
not to continue it in force. A law which imposes a tax
on intoxicating liquor, whether legally or illegally made,
is not in conflict with another law which prohibits the
making of any such liquor. Compare United States v.
Stafoff, 260 U. S. 477; Vigliotti v. Pennsylvania,258 U. S.
403. There is no direct conflict between any provision of
the prohibitory legislation and the imposition of the tax
here in question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

Second. The claimant contends that the so-called tax
on illicitly distilled spirits theretofore imposed ceased to
be a tax and became in law a penalty, when the enactment
of the National Prohibition Act changed the purpose of
the tax from raising revenue to preventing manufacture,
sale, and transportation; and that to enforce such penalty
by forfeiture of the property rights of innocent third
parties would be a denial of due process of law. It is true
that the use of the word "tax" in imposing a financial
burden does not prove conclusively that the burden imposed is a tax; and that when it appears from its very
nature that the imposition prescribed is a penalty solely,
it must be treated in law as such. But the imposition
here in question is not of that character. A tax on intoxicating liquor does not cease to be such because the sovereign has declared that none shall be manufactured, and
because the main purpose in retaining the tax is to make
law-breaking less profitable. What was sought to be enforced and held to be a penalty in Lipke v. Lederer, 259
U. S. 557, 561, was the so-called double tax. Here, we
are dealing with the basic production tax.
With respect to the character of the impositions called
taxes there is nothing in either the Revenue Acts or the
Prohibition Act which makes any distinction between the
product of legal and illegal distillation. The Acts left in
effect the basic tax of $2.20 per gallon, which was and
is a true tax on the product, whether legally or illegally
distilled, and added to it the additional amounts in case
of illegal distillation or diversion to illegal uses. These
additional amounts also are called taxes by Congress,
and were understood by it to be such. Whether they
were intrinsically penalties and should be treated as
such we need not determine. The basic tax of $2.20 a
gallon on liquor illegally produced is not imposed because of illegality, but despite of it. It is a tax within
the meaning of § 3450; and being unpaid makes that

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
321

329

Opinion of the Court.

section applicable, even if the additional amounts imposed by the Acts be deemed penalties. Moreover, there
is no constitutional objection to enforcing a penalty by
forfeiture of an offending article. Lipke v. Lederer holds
merely that the enforcement of a penalty by an administrative official without giving notice and an opportunity
to defend is a denial of due process. A proceeding under
§ 3450 is a judicial proceeding in which the claimant is
accorded fully the right to litigate. A claim was filed
in this case; but that is not now before us. Instead of
asking for a-heaxing tlhereon, the claimant chose to move
to quash the libel. If the judgment dismissing the libel
is set aside, a hearing on the merits of the libel and of
the claim may still be had. But we may not consider
now allegations in the claim.
Third. The claimant contends that a proceeding
under § 3450 will not lie to forfeit a vehicle, unless it
was being used to remove the tax-unpaid article from
the place where the tax was required by law to be paid,
that is, the place of manufacture or of importation, or a
bonded warehouse. This narrow meaning of the word
"remove" is urged upon us, as contrasted with the broad
term "transport" employed in § 26. We have no occasion to determine the exact scope, in this connection, of
the term "remove." The libel makes no reference to
removal. It charges only that the automobile was being used to deposit or conceal.
Under § 3450, it is not essential that the offender must
have been either the manufacturer or importer of the
liquor or a person directly associated with him. The
Government may look for payment also to the liquor itself and to whoever has possession of it. Nor does the
language of § 3450, or its history, indicate that Congress
intended to limit the proceeding under that section to
cases where the vehicle was used for deposit or concealment as part of the illegal act of removal, or to make it

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

applicable only where the article concealed had been
unlawfully removed from the place where the tax should
have been paid. If the intent to defraud the United
States of the tax is established by any competent evidence, a use of the vehicle for the purpose of concealment
satisfies the requirement of § 3450, even if it appears that
the offender obtained it, not from a distillery, bonded
warehouse or importer, but from a stranger.
It is argued that Killian's purpose cannot have been
to evade the tax; that it was only to violate the Prohibition Act. The place from which the removal is made,
and the special relation to the manufacturer or importer of him who used the vehicle, are of evidential
significance only. Knowledge that liquor was illicitly
distilled may tend to prove knowledge that it was taxunpaid. Removal or concealment of the liquor with such
knowledge may tend to prove an intention to deprive
the United States of the tax due thereon. But with these
questions we have no concern now. The case is here
on review of a judgment of dismissal upon a motion to
quash. Therefore we must accept as true the allegations of the libel.
Fourth. The claimant contends that § 3450, in so far
as it applied to intoxicating liquor, was superseded by
§ 26 of the National Prohibition Act. There was no
repeal in terms. There cannot be held to have been a
repeal by implication, unless § 3450 is in direct conflict
with some provision of the National Prohibition Act or
of the supplemental act. For Congress has declared in
§ 5 of the Willis-Campbell Act that, in ascertaining its
intention in this connection the standard of mere inconsistency, which had been applied in United States v.
Yuginovich, 256 U. S. 450, shall not prevail.
The two statutes cover different ground. Different
purposes underlay their enactment. Section 3450, extending to every taxed article, seeks to enforce the obli-

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
321

331

Opinion of the Court.

gation to pay the tax by subjecting to forfeiture also
articles used in the attempt to evade such payment. The
purpose of § 26 is to prevent the manufacture, sale or
transportation of intoxicating liquor. Carroll v. United
States, 267 U. S. 132, 154-155, 157. It is true that
many acts punishable under § 3450 are punishable also
under § 26. But many are not. Thus § 3450 applies to
a vehicle, whether used for removal, deposit or concealment, and even although the vehicle is not in motion and
movement was never contemplated; § 26 applies only to a
vehicle used in transporting contrary to law. Section 3450
may apply although a permit was obtained to transport
the liquor; § 26 cannot. On the other hand § 3450, as applied to liquor, relates only to that on which taxes have
not been paid; § 26 applies whether taxes have been paid
or not. It is clear that the mere existence of two provisions penalizing acts which are part of the same transaction does not prove direct conflict between them. Nor
does the difference in purpose which underlay their
enactment.
In the absence of conflict resulting from differences in
the scope and purposes of the statutes, the claim of
implied repeal must rest upon essential conflict incident
to the prescribed methods of their operation. None such
has been shown. Direct conflict is not established by
showing merely differences in details of procedure. That
some other mode of disposition must now take the place
of the requirement in § 3450 for the sale of the seized
liquor is not sufficient to establish a conflict of the provisions as applied to a seized vehicle. To establish an
implied repeal there must, under the legislative mandate,
be shown some necessary contradiction so extreme as to
justify this Court in finding it impossible to permit the
Government the choice between the two remedies where
the facts bring the offense within the provisions of both
statutes. Such a contradiction is said to exist, because

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

under § 3450 the vehicle is the offender and must be forfeited if there is a guilty intent on the part of him who
used it, whereas under § 26 a person is the offender
and the forfeiture of the vehicle extends only to the
interests of those who share in his guilt by having notice
that it was to be used for the illegal purpose; that under
§ 3450 the vehicle may be forfeited although no person
is convicted of the offense involved ol, is even prosecuted,
whereas under § 26 there can be no forfeiture unless there
has been a conviction of one discovered in the act of
transportation in violation of law. But it is not true
that these differences show direct conflict. The provisions for forfeiture of the vehicle and for arrest of the
transporter are both incidental to the main purpose of
§ 26 of reaching and destroying the forbidden liquor in
process of transportation. Carroll v. 'United States, 267
U. S. 132, 155. The contradiction urged relates only to
the nature of the incidental penalty and the effect of its
imposition. It is clearly possible to apply to a particular
state of facts either one or the other remedy, and to give
to the Government the choice. To hold that where the
tax-unpaid spirits were illegally distilled, there could be
forfeiture of the vehicle only under § 26 while in case of
tax-unpaid legally distilled liquor the vehicle could be
forfeited under § 3450, would involve holding that where
the crime of tax-evasion is preceded by the offense of
illegal distillation, a less severe forfeiture is inflicted than
if tax evasion alone were involved.
Fifth. The claimant contends that § 26 has modified
§ 3450, as applied to intoxicating liquors, so as to deny
a forfeiture of the interest in the vehicle of one who had
no guilty knowledge that it was to be used for an illegal
purpose. That there was no such protection of the innocent interest prior to the National Prohibition Act is conceded. Goldsmith, Jr.-Grant Co. v. United States, 254
U. S. 505. That since the Willis-Campbell Act, Congress

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
321

333

Opinion of the Court.

has not intended to restrict any remedy theretofore given
in aid of the revenue laws is clear. The argument that by
§ 26 Congress manifested the intention to protect generally innocent interests is unfounded. The section is
narrow in scope. The protection accorded is stated explicitly. It does not apply generally to violations of the
Prohibition Act, nor to the violation of any provision of
the revenue laws. It applies solely to cases of forfeiture
incident to the prosecution, as therein provided, of a person transporting liquor by a vehicle in violation of the
Prohibition Act.
The suggestion is made that in this view of § 3450
there may be a forfeiture where a stranger has surreptitiously deposited or concealed the liquor in the vehicle
while in the possession and use of the owner, or has
obtained possession of the vehicle by theft and then made
such use of it. But we are not here concerned with such
a state of facts and therefore may dismiss the suggestion
by repeating what was said of like possibilities pressed on
our attention in the Goldsmith, Jr.-Grant Company case
(p. 512): "Whether the indicated possibilities under the
law are justified we are not called upon to consider. It
has been in existence since 1866, and has not yet received
such amplitude of application. When such application
shall be made it will be time enough to pronounce upon
it. And we also reserve opinion as to whether the section
can be extended to property stolen from the owner or
otherwise taken from him without his privity or consent."
Sixth. The claimant contends that, as applied to intoxicating liquors, § 3450 and § 26 are alternative remedies;
and may not be employed cumulatively. Section 26
commands that, when a person is discovered in the act of
transporting, by means of a vehicle, intoxicating liquors
in violation of the law, the officer shall take possession
of the vehicle, and shall arrest the person in charge
thereof; that the person shall be proceeded against for

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

the violation; that, pending the proceeding against him,
the vehicle shall be surrendered to the owner upon giving
bond to return it to the custody of the officer on the day
of the trial to abide the judgment of the court; that, in
case of conviction of the person, the vehicle shall be sold
under conditions and in a manner prescribed; that the
proceeds remaining after paying the expenses shall be
paid over to the lienors innocent of wrong-doing; and
that, unless and except so far as there are such lienors
or others entitled thereto, the net proceeds shall be paid
into the Treasury of the United States. The claimant
insists not only that the Government must elect between
§ 26 and § 3450, but that the commencement of proceedings under § 26 bars a resort to § 3450.
The case at bar does not present any conceivable question of cumulative remedies or of election. While the
second sentence in § 26 uses the words "transported or
possessed," the context makes it very plain that the possession intended is possession in transportation." Hence
that section is applicable only if a person is discovered
in the act of transporting intoxicating liquor in violation
of law. There is no allegation in the libel that the automobile had been so discovered or was being so used. There
is no allegation that Killian, who had possession of the
automobile, has ever been prosecuted. It appears that a
complaint was made but not that a warrant was issued; or
that he was arrested; or even that he was found. The
4 The

words of the section are: "Sec. 26. When the commissioner,
his assistants, inspectors, or any officer of the law shall discover any
person in the act of transportingin violation of the law, intoxicating
liquors in any wagon, buggy, automobile, water or air craft, or other
vehicle, it shall be his duty to seize any and all intoxicating liquors
found therein being transported contrary to law. Whenever intoxicating liquors transported or possessed illegally shall be seized by an
officer he shall take posseasion of the vehicle and team or automobile,
boat, air or water craft, or any other conveyance, and shall arrest any
person in charge thereof. . .

."

(Italics ours.)

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
321

335

Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting.

motion to quash must be determined on the showing in
the libel.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE, concurring.
I agree that the Willis-Campbell Act requires § 3450
of the Revised Statutes and § 26 of the National Prohibition law to be so construed as to stand together in so
far as they are not in direct conflict. I agree also that
there conceivably may be a deposit or concealment of
illicit liquor in an automobile with intent to defraud the
United States of the tax upon it, which is not transportation within the meaning of § 26 and to that extent the
two sections are not in conflict. But I cannot subscribe
to those expressions in the opinion which seem to suggest
that the two sections are not in direct conflict, in a case
where there is transportation of liquor in a vehicle in violation of the National Prohibition law with intent to
defraud the United States of the tax. In that case § 26,
it seems to me, plainly directs that the seizure shall be
made and proceedings for forfeiture of the seized vehicle
had under that section. In that event § 26 sa'ves the
interest of the innocent owner or lienor from the forfeiture required by § 3450. It appears to me that the conflict in such a case- is direct and that § 26 by its terms is
controlling.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER, dissenting.
1. No tax, as distinguished from penalty, is imposed
on the manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes.
The Eighteenth Amendment by its own force invalidated all laws which in any manner sanctioned the manufacture, sale or transportation of such liquor. National
Prohibition Cases, 253 U. S. 350, 386. And it empowered
Congress to pass appropriate legislation to enforce the
prohibition. The manufacturer of intoxicating liquor

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting. 272 U. S.

for medicinal or other non-beverage purposes may be
authorized or encouraged; but an attempt so to deal with
liquor for beverage purposes would be a plain violation
of the Amendment.
If Congress has any power to impose a tax, as distinguished from a penalty, on the production of beverage
liquor forbidden by the Constitution, its purpose so to do
must be disclosed unmistakably by language that is not
susceptible of any other meaning. All exactions now
imposed on such manufacture should be held to be penalties to enforce prohibition. The question whether the
exactions called taxes were in fact penalties was not involved in United States v. Yuginovich, 256 U. S. 450,
462, or in United States v. Stafof, 260 U. S. 477. When
reading and applying the legislation here in question, it
should be borne in mind that it is the duty of Congress
to impose penalties to enforce the prohibition of beverage liquor, and that Congress has undertaken vigorously
to discharge that duty.
The libel for condemnation of the automobile does
not refer to the statute under which the so-called tax is
claimed, and does not state the amount demanded. But
the Government relies on § 600(a) of the Revenue Act
of 1918, approved February 24, 1919, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057,
1105. This provision was enacted before the War Prohibition Act, the Eighteenth Amendment and the National Prohibition Act took effect. The language is:
"That there shall be levied and collected on all distilled spirits now in bond or that have been or that may
be hereafter produced in or imported into the United
States, . . . in lieu of the internal-revenue taxes now
imposed thereon by law, a tax of $2.20 (or, if withdrawn
for beverage purposes or for use in the manufacture or
production of any article used or intended for use as a
beverage, a tax of $6.40) on each proof gallon, . . . to
be paid by the distiller or importer when withdrawn, and
collected under the provisions of existing law."

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
321

337

Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting.

And, after National Prohibition became effective, that
provision was amended by § 600 of the Revenue Act of
1921, c. 121, 42 Stat. 227, 285, which added:
"Provided, That on all distilled spirits on which tax is
paid at the nonbeverage rate of $2.20 per proof gallon
and which are diverted to beverage purposes . . . there
shall be levied and collected an additional tax of $4.20
on each proof gallon, . . . to be paid by the person
responsible for such diversion."
The Government contends that, within the meaning of
§ 3450, $2.20 per gallon is a true tax on all liquor whether
legally or illegally distilled. And, as to the imposition
made by § 600 of the Act of 1921, it rightly says that the
so-called additional tax of $4.20 on each proof gallon diverted to beverage purposes is a penalty. Clearly, it is
an imposition by way of punishment to enforce prohibition.
The $6.40 exaction per gallon specified in § 600(a) of
the Act of 1918 cannot be claimed as the liquor was not
"withdrawn" for beverage, or at all. That exaction was
imposed before National Prohibition. It applied to all
distilled spirits then in bond, or that had been or thereafter might be, produced or imported into the United
States--with exceptions not here material. But when
the Eighteenth Amendment and the National Prohibition
Act became effective, the production of beverage liquor
was prohibited. Intoxicating liquors cannot be "withdrawn for beverage purposes." The whole charge of
$6.40 per gallon was held to be a penalty and not a tax
in Regal Drug Co. v. Wardell, 260 U. S. 386, 389, 392.
But it is said that the continued existence of taxes,
as distinguished from penalties, on liquor for beverage
purposes is indicated by § 35 of the National Prohibition Act. The meaning of the sentence on which the
majority relies will be more clear when other provisions
there found are called to attention. The section pro-

23468'

7-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting. 272 tT. S.

vides: "All provisions of law that are inconsistent with
this Act are repealed only to the extent of such inconsistency and the regulations herein provided for the
manufacture or traffic in intoxicating liquor shall be
construed as in addition to existing laws." Manifestly,
these "regulations" apply only to nonbeverage liquor because the manufacture, sale or transportation of beverage liquor is forbidden by the Constitution. The section
proceeds: "This Act shall not relieve anyone from paying any taxes or other charges imposed upon the manufacture or traffic in such liquor." This is the sentence
relied on. That the "taxes" there mentioned relate to
nonbeverage liquor is apparent from the sentence immediately following. "No liquor revenue stamps or taxreceipts for any illegal manufacture or sale shall be issued
in advance, but upon evidence of such illegal manufacture
or sale a tax shall be assessed against, and collected from,
the person responsible for such illegal manufacture or
sale in double the amount now provided by law [meaning that imposed on liquor lawfully made] with an additional penalty of $500 on retail dealers and $1,000 on
manufacturers. The payment of such tax or penalty shall
give no right to engage in the manufacture or sale of
such liquor, or relieve anyone from criminal liability, nor
shall this Act relieve any person from any liability, civil or
criminal, heretofore or hereafter incurred under existing
laws." As to nonbeverage liquor legally made, the tax is
upon production. That is the only "tax." The further
exaction is a special imposition to enforce prohibition.
As to beverage liquor, the so-called double tax together
with the additionalpenalty of $500 or $1,000, as the case
may be, is upon the person responsible. It is a punishment by penalty in a sum equal to double the tax plus
the specified "additional penalties." The amount cannot
b paid as a tax. The liability attaches only on comnission of crime--" illegal manufacture or sale."

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
321

339

Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting.

In Lipke v. Lederer, 259 U. S. 557, it was held that
these exactions are penalties. The Court said (561-562):
"The mere use of the word 'tax' in an act primarily
designed to define and suppress crime is not enough to
show that within the true intendment of the term a
tax was laid. Child Labor Tax Case, aite, 20. When
by its very nature the imposition is a penalty, it must
be so regarded. Helwig v. United States, 188 U. S.605,
613. Evidence of crime (§ 29) is essential to assessment
under § 35. It lacks all the ordinary characteristics of a
tax, whose primary function 'is to provide for the support of the government,' and clearly involves the idea
of punishment for infraction of the law-the definite
function of a penalty. O'Sullivan v. Felix, 233 U. S.
318, 324."
Again, after the effective date of the Eighteenth
Amendment, a collector of internal revenue levied under
§ 600(a) of the Revenue Act of 1918 a "so-called assessment or tax at the rate of $6.40 per gallon " on distilled
liquors withdrawn from bonded warehouses between October, 1918 and June, 1920. This court reiterated what
it had said in Lipke V'. Lederer, and held that the sums
so imposed were penalties, not taxes. Regal Drug Co.
v. Wardell, supra, 389, 392. The exaction of $6.40 per
gallon there claimed included the $2.20 per gallon for
which the automobile in this case is held subject to
confiscation.
Section 5 of the Willis-Campbell Act of November 23,
1921, c. 134, 42 Stat. 222, 223, is also relied on. The purpose of that section is clear when regard is had to the
scope of the Act of which it is a part. That is "An Act
Supplemental to the National Prohibition Act." It was
passed to aid enforcement of prohibition and not to raise
revenue. It authorizes and purports to regulate the prescribing of liquors for medicinal purposes; prohibits importation and manufacture until the supply then in dis-

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting. 272 U. S.

tilleries and other bonded warehouses shall be reduced
to an amount not sufficient for nonbeverage purposes;
permits spirits produced in this country and exported to
be returned for redeposit in bonded warehouses from
which originally taken; extends the National Prohibition
Act to all the territory of the United States, and makes
all violators liable to the penalties provided for in the
original Act.
The words upon which the majority relies are these:
"That all laws in regard to the manufacture and taxation of and traffic in intoxicating liquor, and all penalties
for violations of such laws that were in force when the
National Prohibition Act was enacted, shall be and continue in force, as to both beverage and nonbeverage liquor, except such provisions of such laws as are directly
in conflict with any provision of the National Prohibition Act or of this Act; but if any act is a violation of
any of such laws and also of the National Prohibition
Act or of this Act, a conviction for such act or offense
under one shall be a bar to prosecution therefor under
the other. All taxes and tax penalties provided for in
§ 35 of Title II of the National Prohibition Act shall
be assessed and collected in the same manner and by the
same procedure as other taxes on the manufacture of or
traffic in liquor." Then follows a provision exempting
from taxation spirits lost by theft from distilleries or
other bonded warehouses without negligence or collusion, and the Act provides punishment for certain misconduct of government enforcement officers and others.
That Act does not make a "tax" out of what was, before
its passage, a "penalty." It does not change the classification of exactions declared in Lipke v. Lederer and
Regal Drug Co. v. Wardell. The Constitution forbids,
and the National Prohibition Act denounces as crime, the
manufacture, sale and transportation of intoxicating
liquor for beverage purposes. The exactions in respect

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
321

341

Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting.

of such liquor were properly to be considered to enforce
prohibition and to punish violations of law. The WillisCampbell Act expressly saved all measures for enforcement. The exaction still depends on the commission of
crime. The Government's argument that the total
charge of $6.40 per gallon is to be divided, so that $4.20
of that amount may be regarded as penalty aimed at
beverage liquor and $2.20 as a tax imposed on all liquor,
is without support in the language used, and is contrary
to the decisions of this court. It was beverage liquor
that Killian had in the automobile. The nonbeverage
rate does not apply.
2. There is direct conflict between § 26 and § 3450 in
respect of the disposition of vehicles seized. The facts
disclosed by the record bring the case under § 26.
Section 3450 relates to all goods and commodities on
which taxes are imposed. And it provides that whenever any such things "are removed, or are deposited or
concealed in any place, with intent to defraud the United
States of such tax . . . all such goods and commodities . . . shall be forfeited; and in every such case . . .
every . . . carriage or other conveyance whatsoever . . .
and all things used in the removal or for the deposit or
concealment thereof, respectively, shall be forfeited."
Section 26 of the National Prohibition Act lays down
the course to be followed by the enforcing officers. They
are given no discretion. It provides: "When the commissioner, his assistants, inspectors, or any officer of the
law, shall discover any person in the act of transporting in violation of the law, intoxicating liquors in any
... automobile . . . or other vehicle, it shall be his
duty to seize any and all intoxicating liquors found
therein being transported contrary to law. Whenever
intoxicating liquors transported or possessed illegally
shall be seized by an officer he shall take possession of
the vehicle . . . and shall arrest any person in charge

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting. 272 U. S.

thereof. Such officer shall at once proceed against the
person arrested under the provisions of this title ....
but the said vehicle . . .shall be returned to the owner"
upon giving a bond conditioned to return the vehicle
to the officer on the day of the trial to abide the
judgment of the court. Upon conviction of the person
arrested the court is required to order the liquor destroyed, "and unless good cause to the contrary is shown
by the owner, shall order a sale by public auction" of
the vehicle, and the officer making the sale, after deducting expenses, the fee for seizure and costs of sale shall pay
all liens according to their priorities which are established
at the hearing "as being bona fide and as having been
created without the lienor having any notice that the
carrying vehicle was being used or was to be used for
illegal transportation of liquor, and shall pay the balance of the proceeds into the Treasury. . . ." All liens
are transferred from the property to the proceeds. If no
one shall be found claiming the vehicle notice by publication is required. "And if no claimant shall appear
within ten days . . . the property shall be sold and the
proceeds after deducting the expenses and costs shall
be paid into the Treasury . .. 2)
Section 3450 forfeits the vehicle of an innocent owner
or lienor. Section 26 expressly protects his property.
The conflict as to the disposition of the automobile is
direct, and that is the matter in controversy.
The great weight of judicial opinion is that illicit
whiskey is not subject to a tax as distinguished from a
penalty. This is held in the Second, Sixth and Eighth
Circuits, and in the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia. No Circuit Court of Appeals has held directly that such a tax is imposed. And the decisions of
the lower courts are overwhelmingly to the effect that
§ 26, National Prohibition Act and R. S. § 3450 are in
direct conflict. It is so held by the Circuit Courts of

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
321

343

Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting.

Appeals of the Second, Fifth, Sixth and Eighth Circuits,
and the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia.
The Ninth Circuit has certified the question here in Port
GardnerInv. Co. v. United States, post, p. 564.
There is shown in the margin substantially in chronological order the reported decisions, since National Prohibition, in the Circuit Courts of Appeals and District
Courts, bearing on the application of § 3450 in respect
of intoxicating liquors.'
'United States v. Essex (N. D. Ga., 1920), 266 Fed. 138. Libel
under § 3450. It did not appear that the liquor was for beverage
purposes. Held, lawful to make non-beverage liquor; United States
may elect to proceed under § 3450 or § 26.
United States v. Haynes (S. D. Fla., 1920), 268 Fed. 1003. Held,
§ 26 covers every case of illegal transportation of liquor, and § 3450
inconsistent with it. Affirmed, 1921, by C. C. A., 5th Cir., 274 Fed. 926.
Reed v. Thurmond (C. C. A., 4th Cir., 1920), 269 Fed. 252, reversing conviction in W. D. S. Car., under R. S. § 3296, removing
distilled liquor from warehouse without paying tax. Held, National
Prohibition Act inconsistent with scheme of revenue protection embodied in Revised Statutes.
Ketchurn v. United States (C. C. A., 8th Cir., 1921), 270 Fed. 416,
reversing E. D. Ark. Indictment and conviction under R. S. §§ 3242,
3257, 3260, and 3279, all relating to distilling. Held, provisions
directed to secure revenue from manufacture and sale of intoxicating
liquors inconsistent with and repealed by law absolutely prohibiting
such manufacture and sale.
United States v. Cole (Mont., 1921), 273 Fed. 934. Demurrer to
libel under § 3450 overruled. Held,. § 26, National Prohibition Act,
not inconsistent with it. Assumed taxability and dealt only with the
remedy.
The Tuscan (S. D. Ala., 1921), 276 Fed. 55. Libel of vessel under
§ 3450 sustained on ground taxes were still imposed.
Payne v. United States- (C. C. A., 5th Cir., 1922), 279 Fed. 112,
affirming N. D. Ga. Libel under § 3450 sustained. Transportation
occurred in January, 1920, a few days after National Prohibition Act
took effect; nothing to indicate spirits were not in existence then
and subject to tax. Held, § 3450 is not repealed, but is superseded
only where facts of particular case show matters charged to violate
it arise solely under National Prohibition Act as in Haynes case, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting. 272 U. S.

3. The opinion proceeds on the theory that transportation of whiskey in the automobile is not shown outside
the claim of the Garth Motor Company. And it is held
Reo Company v. Stern (N. D. Ga., 1922), 279 Fed. 422. Suit by
vendor under conditional sale contract to recover car forfeited under
§ 3450 and sold to defendant. Subsequently, drivers convicted under
National Prohibition Act for transporting. Court directed verdict
for defendant. Held, § 3450 repealed so far as transporting was concerned, but still effective for deposit and concealment; presumption
of validity of judgment not overcome.
Lewis v. United States (C. C. A., 6th Cir., 1922), 280 Fed. 5,
reversing judgment of forfeiture under § 3450, in E. D. Tenn. Held,
§ 3450 repealed to extent of inconsistency with National Prohibition
Act. Taxes on liquor no longer payable and hence there can be no
intent to defraud in not paying them.
United States v. Buick (Mont., 1922), 280 Fed. 517. Libel under
§ 3450 sustained. Earlier opinion in United States v. Cole, 273 Fed.
934, held strengthened by Willis-Campbell Act.
United States v. Packard (E. D. Mich., 1922), 284 Fed. 394.
Forfeiture under customs laws. Petition for return granted. Held,
that forfeiture provisions were without application because National
Prohibition Act made importation unlawful. It appeared that driver
escaped and no forfeiture could be had under § 26.
Ford v. United States (C. C. A., 8th Cir., 1922), 284 Fed. S23,
reversing E. D. Ark. Judgment of forfeiture under § 3450 reversed.
Held, § 3450 not applicable (no question of repeal); there is no tax
shown to be due United States; § 26 applies.
McDowell v. United States (C. C. A., 9th Cir., 1923), 286 Fed.
521, reversing D. Mont. Held, § 3450 repealed by National Prohibition Act in case of transportation of liquor on which taxes have not
been paid.
Studebaker v. United States (C. C. A., 9th Cir., 1923), 289 Fed.
256, reversing D. Mont. Per curiam on authority of McDowell case.
United States v. Torres (Md., 1923), 291 Fed. 138. Held, § 3450
not repealed, but after conviction forfeiture proceedings must be
under § 26.
United States v. Essex (Mont., 1923), 291 Fed. 479. Libels under
§ 3450 sustained. Held, if any doubt as to matter, it had been
settled by Willis-Campbell Act.
The Cherokee (S. D. Tex., 1923), 292 Fed. 212. Libel of vessel
under § 3450 for carrying liquor on which tax had not been paid.

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
321

345

Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting.

that, the dismissal being set aside, hearing on the question whether Killian was transporting the whiskey may
be had in the lower court. It seems to me the litigation
need not be so delayed, and that the important question
Held, § 3450 has not been repealed by National Prohibition Act in
view of Willis-Campbell Act.
United States v. Cadillac (E. D. Ill., 1923), 292 Fed. 773. Libel
under § 3450 of auto carrying distilled liquor bearing export stamps
but not bound for any port. Had no other stamps. Held, presumption of intent to defraud United States. § 3450, if repealed, had
been restored by Willis-Campbell Act.
United States v. Buick (S. D. Calif., 1924), 300 Fed. 584. Three
libels under § 3450. In two cases, moonshine was being transported
within State. In other, whiskey came from Mexico. First two
dismissed. Held, § 3450 has no application to mere transportation of
illicit liquor in violation of National Prohibition Act. Must be fair
presumption of intent to defraud United States of tax. But libel as to
Mexican whiskey sustained because of intent to defraud of customs
duties.
United States v. Ford (E. D. Tenn., 1924), 1 F. (2d) 654. Held,
§ 3450 not in direct conflict with § 26 and re-enacted by WillisCampbell Act.
United States v. Bay State Roadster (Conn., 1924), 2 F. (2d)
616. Libel under § 3450. Motion to dismiss denied. Held, that if
repealed § 3450 re-enacted by Willis-Campbell Act. It applies only
where offense charged is defrauding United States of tax, and not in
ease of mere transportation. Burden of showing intent to defraud on
United States. This burden sustained because allegations of libel
were admitted by motion.
United States v. Ford (W. D. Tenn., 1924), 2 F. (2d) 882. Libel
under § 3450 sustained. Auto found abandoned containing nontaxpaid liquor. Held, § 3450 re-enacted by Willis-Campbell Act.
United States v. Ford Coupe (W. D. La., 1924), 3 F. (2d) 64.
Libel under § 3450 sustained. Man arrested on road for transporting.
Held, whatever basis for holding § 3450 repealed removed by WillisCampbell Act.
United States v. White Truck (W. D. Wash., 1925), 4 F. (2d) 413.
Decree of forfeiture under § 3450 of car containing imported liquors.
Held, § 3450 re-enacted by Willis-Campbell Act.
United States v. Garth Motor Co. (C. C. A., 5th Cir., 1925), 4 F.
(2d) 528, affirming N. D. Ala. No. 115-this case.

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting. 272 U. S.

pressing for decision should be decided now.

It is true

that the allegations of the company's claim are not to
be considered on the motion to quash the libel; but, quite
United States v. Chevrolet (W. D. Wash., 1925), 4 F. (2d) 612.
Libel under § 3450 of truck containing whiskey run over border.
Driver and others indicted for conspiracy to violate National Prohibition Act. Decree of forfeiture. Held, § 3450 applies when taxes are
due and unpaid as on illegally imported liquors. Case not affected by
indictment; car is held for different offense.
United States v. Mack (C. C. A., 2d Cir., 1925), 4 F. (2d) 923,
affirming S. D. N. Y. Dismissed libel under § 3062 (condening
vessel containing illegally imported merchandise). Offense was in
April, 1921. Held, that section not then in force. Carriage of
illegally imported liquors is within the terms of § 3062 and § 26, so
later and milder provision prevails.
Commercial Credit Co. v. United States (C. C. A., 6th Cir., 1925),
5 F. (2d) 1, reversing N. D. Ohio. Libel under § 3450. Car used
for removal of liquor. Seizure under § 26 and those in charge convicted thereunder. Forfeiture reversed. Held, there is direct conflict.
Liquor not subject to tax, for § 600 does not apply, and § 35 forbids
issuance of stamps. § 3450, repealed by inconsistency with National
Prohibition Act; not within terms of Willis-Campbell Act. § 26
protects property of innocent owners; § 3450 forfeits it, and this is
a conflict.
United States v. Marmon (N. D. Ga., 1925), 5 F. (2d) 113. Judgment of forfeiture under § 3450. Held, United States must show
specific intent to defraud; that is done by showing anyone has
possession of liquor on which no tax has been paid, and has no
intention of paying it.
United States v. Milstone (Ct. App. D. C., 1925), 6 F. (2d) 481,
affirming Municipal Court, D. C. Dismissal of libel under § 0450
affirmed. Car containing moonshine abandoned by driver who was
not apprehended. Seized "on behalf of" collector, of internal
revenue. Held, § 3450 has no application. No tax can be paid on
such liquor, for issuance of stamps forbidden. Failure to pay tax
mere incident of illegal possession and transportation, unlawful in any
event. Unless two statutes distinguished, § 26 dead letter.
United States v. Deutsch (N. J.), 8 F. (2d) 54. Deutsch convicted of violation of National Prohibition Act. Owner of car in
which he was transporting, and which he had rented, gave bond for
its release and moves to discharge bond. Granted. Held, § 26 and

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
321

347

Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting.

independently of the company's allegations, the court
would be fully warranted in holding that Killian was
found offending against § 26. The Government does not
not § 3450 applies; owner of auto being innocent, there can be no
forfeiture.
United States v. Ford (Tenn., 1925). Not reported. Libel under
§ 3450 dismissed.
National Bond & Investment Co. v. United States (C. C. A., 7th
Cir., 1925), 8 F. (2d) 942, reversing E. D. Ill. Libel under § 3450
of car seized in 1924 for transporting. Driver pleaded guilty to
violation of National Prohibition Act. Libel set forth that liquor
came from Canada and was brought in without payment of customs
duties. No averment 'this car brought it in. Decree of forfeiture
reversed. Held, since passage of Willis-Campbell Act, it cannot be
held that § 3450 was repealed by National Prohibition Act. Must
show intent to defraud by establishing that car was used in smuggling;
no such averment here.
United States v. Reo (C. C. A., 2d Cir., 1925), 9 F. (2d) 529,
affirming E. D. N. Y. Two libels of auto truck. One under § 26,
for transportation of whiskey without permit; other under § 3450
charging removal and concealment to avoid tax. Truck stopped on
Long Island carrying whiskey. No conviction of driver; bona fide
claimant. District Court dismissed both libels. Held, when vehicle
is used in transporting, conviction of offender is essential to its forfeiture, at least when there is bona fide lienor. Under such circumstances, direct conflict between § 26 and § 3450, and latter does not
apply at all. No decision as to whether same is true, if there be no
such lien.
United States v. Chevrolet (E. D. Mo., 1925), 9 F. (2d) 85. Libel
under § 3450 dismissed. Driver arrested while transporting illicit
liquor; not yet tried. Held, no tax, as distinguished from penalty,
on manufacture of illicit liquor; on these facts irreconcilable conflict
between § 3450 and § 26, and latter applies.
United States v. Three Quarts Whiskey (S. D. N. Y., 1925), 9 F.
(2d) 208. Libel of automobile under § 3450 dismissed, on ground
that § 26 had superseded § 3450.
Compare The Ella (S. D. Fla., 1925), 9 F. (2d) 411; United States
v. Lincoln (N. D. N. Y., 1925), 11 F. (2d) 551; The Squanto (C. C.
A., 2d Cir., 1926), 13 F. (2d) 548; United States v. Chevrolet (W. D.
Wash, 1926), 13 F. (2d) 948; Weeke v. United States (C. C. A., 8th
Cir, 1926), 14 F. (2d) 398.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting. 272 U. S.

here contend that he was not taken while violating that
section; it does not attempt to avoid decision on the merits. On the other hand it urges that, where one is taken
in the act of transporting whiskey in the automobile of
another, the vehicle may be forfeited, notwithstanding
the owner appears and shows that he was innocent. It
insists that, in case of conviction of the driver for transportation, the interest of the guilty may be forfeited; and,
if the tax is not paid on the illicit beverage, the interest
of the innocent owner may be confiscated. The claimant
challenges that position squarely.
The information filed by the United States, September
18, 1923, states that this is a "case of seizure on land
under the internal revenue laws of the United States";
there is attached and made a part of the information an
affidavit and sworn complaint by R. A. Smith, a federal
prohibition agent, which charges that Killian on or about
August 11, 1923, unlawfully had in his possession 27
quarts of whiskey for beverage purposes, otherwise than
as authorized by the National Prohibition Act. And
the information alleges that Edgar N. Read, acting prohibition director, seized the automobile described "which
said automobile was then and there in the possession of
one Ed L. Killian and being used by him for the purpose
of depositing and concealing" the 27 quarts of whiskey;
that the automobile was said to belong to the Garth
Motor Company, and that Read "now has the same in his
custody." It states that the automobile was being used
by Killian with intent to defraud the United States of
taxes on the whiskey, and the automobile "then and
there contained" the whiskey.
The information-with apparent purpose-avoids the
use of the word "removal" found in § 3450; it does not
allege that the whiskey had been "withdrawn," and so
was subject to the $2.20 tax specified in § 600 (a); and it
also avoids the word "transporting" used in § 26. It

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COUPE.
321

349

Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting.

does not show whether the automobile was moving or
standing still when discovered and seized by the prohibition officers. If transportation in the automobile had
been alleged, the owner would have opportunity to show
his innocence under § 26. The purpose of the pleader
in avoiding the use of the word "transporting" was to
forfeit the automobile of an innocent owner on the theory
that § 3450 would then apply, and that § 26 need not be
followed.
When the information was filed, the court issued a
writ of attachment, commanding the marshal to attach
the automobile "which is now being held by Edgar N.
Read, acting prohibition director," to detain it until the
further order of the court and to give notice to the claimant. The marshal made his return that he had executed
the writ by handing a copy to Acting Director Read and
by seizing the automobile. December 6, 1923, the claimant filed a motion to quash the libel. April 14, 1924, it
filed its claim, alleging that the title to the automobile
which was seized while being used by Killian "in and
about the unlawful transportation of intoxicating liquors" was in the company, subject to a conditional sales
contract, and gave the bond provided for in § 26, which
was approved by the district judge. The motion to quash
was sustained and the libel was dismissed. The district
judge filed no opinion. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed the judgment. 4 F. (2d) 528. In its opinion
that court said: "The position now taken by the government in this case is that the interest of an innocent
owner or lienholder may be forfeited if the automobile
is standing still, but that such interest is protected if
the automobile is in motion. That view could easily
result in manifest injustice; for under it, as an illustration, the interest of an innocent holder of a lien on an
automobile could be forfeited upon proof that while it
was parked on a public street liquor was concealed in it

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Butler, McReynolds, and Sutherland, J. J., dissenting. 272 U. S.

by some one who had the intent to defraud the government of its internal revenue tax." And the court held
that § 3450 is superseded by § 26 in so far as there is
conflict between them. It dealt with the case as one
involving a violation of § 26.
I think that court's interpretation of the record was
right. The prohibition agent discovered Killian in possession of an automobile containing 27 quarts of illicit
whiskey in violation of the National Prohibition Act. The
agent seized the vehicle; and, as it was his duty so to do,
it must be found that he also seized the whiskey. The
prosecution of Killian was commenced by filing complaint
charging him with the crime of illegal possession in violation of that Act. The facts stated make out "transportation." The use of automobiles for transportation of, and
in the furtherance of traffic in, intoxicating liquors for
beverage purposes is so notorious, that, when Killian was
found unlawfully possessing illicit whiskey in the automobile, he reasonably may be held to have been transporting, even though the vehicle happened to be standing
still at the moment the prohibition agent discovered the
crime and made the seizure. The facts alleged in the libel
and complaint attached to it justify a finding that he was
using the automobile for transportation of the whiskey.
On proof of such facts, a denial of transportation by
Killian would not be entitled to respectful attention.
Moreover, when these facts are considered in the light
of what everyone knows, they utterly fail to support the
allegation that Killian had the illicit whiskey concealed
in the automobile with intent to defraud the United
States of a tax on that whiskey. Indeed, the facts alleged
negative that purpose. The attempt to make out a case
against the revenues has no foundation in fact. It was
impossible to pay the so-called tax. Crime had to be
committed before liability for the imposition arose. Taxes
are not so conditioned.

YANKTON SIOUX TRIBE v. UNITED STATES. 351
821

Syllabus.

I am of opinion that the decree should be affirmed:
1. Section 3450 does not apply. There was no tax, as
distinguished from penalty, imposed upon the whiskey
that Killian had in the automobile when discovered by
the prohibition agent.
2. Section 26 directs the proceedings to be taken in
respect of the vehicle "whenever intoxicating liquors
transported or possessed illegally shall be seized by an
officer." The libel brings the case within the words and
meaning of the clause just quoted.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUsTICE MCREYNOLDS
and MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND concur-in this opinion.

YANKTON SIOUX TRIBE OF INDIANS v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 250.

Argued October 7, 1926.-Decided November 22, 1926.

I. Where promises are in the alternative, the fact that one of them
is at the time, or subsequently becomes, impossible of performance
does not, without more, relieve the promisor from performing the
other. P. 358.
2. In an agreement, ratified by Congress in 1894, by which the
Yankton Sioux Indians made a large cession of lands to the United
States, it was stipulated, in part consideration for the cession and
with respect to a small tract of other land containing pipe-stone
quarries which were long claimed by the Indians under a Treaty
of 1858 with encouragement from Congress, (1) that if the Government questioned their ownership of that reservation, including the
fee of the land as well as the right to work the quarries, the Secretary of the Interior should as speedily as possible refer the
matter to the Supreme Court of the United States for decision,
and (2) that if this were not done within one year from the
ratification of the agreement by Congress, such failure, on the part
of the Secretary, should be a waiver by the United States of all
rights to the ownership of such pipe-stone reservation, and the
same should thereafter be solely the property of the tribe. The

