DEUTSCHE BANK v. HUMPHREY.
494

Syllabus.

Sioux City Bridge v. Dakota County, 260 U. S. 441, 445;
Taylor v. L. & N. R. R., 88 Fed. 350; L. & N. R. R. v.
Bosworth, 209 Fed. 380, 452; Washington Water Power
Co. v. Kootenai County, 270 Fed. 369, 374.
One argument urged against our conclusion is that the
relation of a foreign insurance company to the State
which permits it to do business within its limits, is contractual, and that, by coming into the State and engaging in business on the conditions imposed, it waives all
constitutional restrictions, and can not object to a condition or law regulating its obligations, even though, as a
statute operating in invitum, it may be in conflict with
constitutional limitations. This argument can not prevail
in view of the decisions of this Court in well considered
cases. Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445; Western
Union Telegraph Company v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Terral
v. Burke ConstructionCo., 257 U. S. 529; Fidelity & Deposit Company v. Tafoya, 270 U. S. 426; Frost v. Railroad Commission, 271.U. S. 583.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois must
be reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
DEUTSCHE

BANK FILIALE
HUMPHREY.

NURNBERG

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 224.

Submitted October 12, 1926.-Decided November 23, 1926.

1. An obligation in terms of the currency of a country takes the
risk of currency fluctuations and whether creditor or debtor profits
by the change the law takes no account of it. P. 519.
2. In an action brought here on a debt arising from a deposit made
in Germany and payable there on demand, in marks, it is erroneous
to translate the amount due into dollars at the rate of exchange

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 IT. S.

existing when demand was made, the mark having depreciated
thereafter. P. 519.
7 F. (2d) 330, reversed.

CERTIORARI (269 U. S. 547) to a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of
the District Court in a suit brought by Humphrey against
the Deutsche Bank, under the Trading with the Enemy
Act, to collect a debt contracted and payable in Germany.
Mr. Amos J. Peaslee for the petitioner, submitted.
Messrs. William Grant, William P. Hubbard,and John
B. Zimdars for the respondent, submitted.
Solicitor General Mitchell filed a brief on behalf of the
Alien Property Custodian and the Treasurer of the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit to reach and apply to a debt due from
the Deutsche Bank Filiale to Humphrey money seized
by the Alien Property Custodian and paid into the
Treasury of the United States. Humphrey, an American
citizen, deposited money, payable on demand, in a German
Bank in Germany, and demanded it, as the Courts have
found, on or about June 12, 1915. The money was not
paid, and this suit was begun on July 9, 1921, under the
Trading with the Enemy Act; October 6, 1917, c. 106; 40
St. 411. The debt was a debt of German marks. The
Courts below held that it should be translated into dollars
at the rate of exchange existing when the demand was
made. 7 Fed. (2d) 330. The value of the mark fell after
that date and a writ of certiorari was granted by this
Court to determine whether the time fixed for the translation into dollars was correct. 269 U. S. 547.
In this case, unlike Hicks v. Guinness, 269 U. S. 71, at
the date of the demand the German Bank owed no duty

DEUTSCHE BANK v. HUIPHREY.
517

519

Opinion of the Court.

to the plaintiff under our law. It was not subject to our
jurisdiction and the only liability that it incurred by its
failure to pay was that which the German law might impose. It has incurred no additional or other one sinee.
A suit in this country is based upon an obligation existing under the foreign law at the time when the suit is
brought, and the obligation is not enlarged by the fact
that the creditor happens to be able to catch his debtor
here. Davis v. Mills, 194 U. S. 451. See Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Brown, 234 U. S. 542 We may assume
that when the Bank failed to pay on demand its liability
was fixed at a certain number of marks both by the terms
of the contract and by the German law-but we also assume that it was fixed in marks only, not at the extrinsic
value that those marks then had in commodities or in
the currency of another country. On the contrary, we
repeat, it was and continued to be a liability in marks
alone and was open to satisfaction by the payment of
that number of marks, at any time, with whatever interest
might have accrued, however much the mark might have
fallen in value as compared with other things. See
Soci~t6 des Hotels le Touquet Paris-Plagev. Cummings,
(1922) 1 K. B. 451. An obligation in terms of the currency of a country takes the risk of currency fluctuations
and whether creditor or debtor profits by the change the
law takes no account of it. Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall.
457, 548, 549. Obviously, in fact a dollar or a mark may
have different values at different times but to the law
that establishes it it is always the same. If the debt had
been due here and the value of dollars had dropped before suit was brought the plaintiff could recover no more
dollars on that account. A foreign debtor should be no
worse off.

There has been so little discussion of what we regard
as the principles that ought to govern this question that

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Sutherland, McReynolds, Butler, and
Sanford, J. J., dissenting

272 U. S.

we refrain from citing the many cases that have touched
upon it and content ourselves with stating what seems
to us the proper rule, only adding a few words as to
Sutherland v. Mayer, 271 U. S. 272. That case concerned
the settlement of accounts of a German partnership having one member in America, and dealt with his claim to
funds in America in the hands of the Boston branch until
seized by the United States. With regard to the Boston
partner's lien upon that fund the partnership contract
fairly might be regarded as subjecting the German partners to American law and warranting a settlement as of
the date when it first became legal after the war, taking
the mark at its value at that time. Hicks v. Guinness,
269 U. S. 71. It was held that in an equitable proceeding where it was hard to lay down any logical rule substantial fairness warranted that result, referring to cases
that arose after the Civil War. Here we are lending our
Courts to enforce an obligation (as we should put it, to
pay damages,) arising from German law alone and ought
to enforce no greater obligation than exists by that law
at the moment when the suit is brought.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, dissenting.
It is well settled, I think, that, where the cause of
action for a tort or breach of contract to deliver goods
accrues in a foreign country and is sued on here, the time
for fixing the value of foreign money in dollars is the date
when the wrong was committed or the breach occurred.
This Court has recently applied the same rule to the case
of a simple debt payable in this country, Hicks v.
Guinness, 269 U. S. 71, and to the settlement of partnership accounts, where the partnership funds were partly
here and partly abroad, Sutherland v. Mayer, 271 U. S.
272. The majority opinion rests upon the distinction that

DEUTSCHE BANK v. HUMPHREY.
517

Sutherland, McReynolds, Butler, and
Sanford, J. J., dissenting

the debt upon which recovery here is sought was payable
in Germany. The distinction, I think, is fallacious, and
proceeds from a very narrow view of the principles applied
in Hicks v. Guinness and Sutherlandv. Mayer.
It is said that when the bank failed to pay on demand,
its liability was fixed by German law at a certain number
of German marks, and in marks only; that it continued to
be a liability in marks only and was open to satisfaction
by the payment of that number of marks at any time,
however much the mark might have fallen in value as
compared with other things; citing Socit6 des H6tels le
Touquet Paris-Plagev. Cummings, [1922] 1 K. B. 451.
And that, of course, is true if the payment be made in
Germany, where marks remain legal tender at all times
irrespective of their fluctuating value when measured by
their purchasing power or by the money of other countries.
And this is all that is held in Socid6t des H6tels, etc. v.
Cummings, supra. See pp. 458, 461, 464. It, likewise,
may be assumed that if suit had been brought in Germany, a judgment at any time for the number of marks
called for by the obligation would have satisfied the requirements of German law, since there marks were not
only the things to be delivered but the lawful money with
which to satisfy a breach of an obligation to deliver them.
But if suit be brought in a court of this country, where
marks are not money but things only, the judgment must
be in dollars and cannot be in marks any more than it
could be in wheat if the broken contract related to that
commodity.
The view that the judgment date should govern puts
undue emphasis upon the character of the thing to be
delivered and ignores completely the all-important element of the time when the delivery should have been
made. In respect of that element, I see no good reason
for making a distinction between marks and wheat. In
either case, if suit be brought in Germany, the injured

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Sutherland, McReynolds, Butler, and
Sanford, J. J., dissenting

272 U. S.

party is entitled to recovei, the amount of his loss in marks
and in marks only. In the one case, the subject matter
(wheat) must be translated into money; but not so in the
other, for the subject matter is money already. In the
case of wheat, therefore, the date of the breach must be
considered because, presumably in Germany as here, it is
the value of the wheat in marks at that time which fixes
the amount of recovery. In the case of marks, however,
the element of time is of no consequence since, in Germany, the value of a mark can be measured only by itself.
But in an action brought here to recover upon a failure
to deliver marks in Germany, the question of time becomes material; for here-a mark is not money, but a
commodity; and if plaintiff is to be compensated in
dollars for his loss, we must inquire, When did the loss
occur? just as we must make that inquiry in order to
fix in dollars the value of wheat in a suit to recover for the
non-delivery of that commodity. To me it seems clear
that, in the one case as in the other, the basis of recovery
must be the value in dollars of the thing lost at the time
of the loss. In this respect, a simple debt payable in
marks and an obligation to deliver goods in Germany
stand upon the same footing. In either case, the injured
party is entitled to have in the money of this country the
value of what he would have obtained if the contract had
been performed at the stipulated time. Lord Eldon, in
Cash v. Kennion, 11 Ves. 314, 316, expressed the applicable principle when he said: "I cannot bring myself
to doubt, that, where a man agrees to pay ยฃ100 in London
upon the 1st of January, he ought to have that sum there
upon that day. If he fails in that contract, wherever the
creditor sues him, the law of that country ought to give
him just as much as he would have had, if the contract
had been performed."
The date for conversion adopted by this Court after
the Civil War in respect of obligations payable in

DEUTSCHE BANK v. HUMPHREY.
517

Sutherland, McReynolds, Butler, and
Sanford, J. J., dissenting

Confederate currency was the date, and not the maturity, of the obligation, upon the ground that such
currency never had been lawful; but in a dictum by
Mr. Justice Field in Effinger v. Kenney, 115 U. S. 566,
575, it is clearly recognized that, if the foreign currency involved be lawful, the date for conversion is
that of the maturity of the contract. In that case,
"The damages recoverable for a breach of the contract
are to be measured by the value of the currency at its
maturity."
To take the date of judgment for determining the value
is to adopt for the measurement of a loss a test resting
upon the fluctuating chances of a court calendar instead
of upon an event already fixed,-that is, to put aside
certainty for uncertainty. The date of the breach,
whether of a contract to deliver goods or to pay money,
marks the essential event which gives rise to the cause
of action and bears a necessary relation to the wrong
sought to be redressed; while the date of the rendition of
judgment bears no relation whatever to the wrong complained of and has nothing to do with the cause of action.
The cases are not agreed; but an examination of them
convinces me that the conclusion I have indicated by the
foregoing is supported by the great weight of authority.
See for example, Page v. Levenson, 281 Fed. 555, 558;
Dante v. Miniggio, 298 Fed. 845; Wichita Mill & E. Co.
v. Naamooze, etc., Industrie, 3 F. (2d) 931; Hoppe v.
Russo-Asiatic Bank, 235 N. Y. 37, 39, affirming 200 App.
Div. 460, 465; Simonoff v. Granite City Nat. Bank, 279
II1. 248, 254; Grunwald v. Freese, (Cal.) 34 Pac. 73, 76;
Manners v. Pearson & Son, [1898] 1 Ch. 581, 587-588,
592-593; Socitet des H6tels v. Cummings, [1921] 3 K. B.
459, 461 (reversed on another point, [1922] 1 K. B. 451,
455, 463, 465), Uliendahl v. Pankhurst Wright & Co., 39
Times L. R. 628; Peyrae v. Wilkinson., [1924] 2 K. B.
166; Barry v. Van den Hurk, [1920] 2 K. B. 709, 712; In

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Sutherland, McReynolds, Butler, and
Sanford, J. J., dissenting

272 U. S.

re British American Continental Bank, [1922] 2 Ch. 589,
594-598.
The case last cited was a winding-up proceeding, and
the question arose over the conversion into English
money of the amount of a debt payable in Belgium in
Belgian currency. The -court adopted as the date for
conversion into English money the date when the debt
was payable in Belgium, saying (p. 595): " . . . this
mode of computation and thus converting the one currency into the other is based upon damages for the breach
of contract to deliver the commodity bargained for (i.
e., the foreign currency) at the appointed time and place;
consequently the date for conversion is the date of breach
and not the date of the judgment." After reviewing the
prior cases, including both decisions in Socit6 des H6tels
v. Cummings, supra, the court concluded that "the
principle in no way depends either upon the nationality
of the creditor or upon the fact that the place of payment is in the creditor's own country as distinguished
from some other country, but applies, if at all, to every
case where an action is brought in England for the recovery of a debt payable in some other currency than
English money."
The same principle is announced in Lebeaupin v.
Crispin, [1920] 2 K. B. 714, 723, in an action for
breach of contract to deliver salmon. The court said:
"If the damages are fixed at the date of breach where
the contract is wholly to be performed in England,
such also, I think, should be the result where the
breach is out of England. There should not be varying rules in such a case. If the damages are once
crystallized at the date of breach, then a definite date
is given for the ascertainment of exchange, and the
amount found payable at the hearing is awarded without regard to the fluctuations of the possible date of
trial."

MASS. STATE GRANGE v. BENTON.
517

Syllabus.

I think it is extremely desirable that the rule established should be one capable of uniform application. To
take the date of the judgment is to establish a rule which
does not meet this requirement. The amount of the
recovery will depend upon whether suit is promptly
brought or promptly prosecuted; whether the defendant
interposes dilatory measures; whether the call of the
docket is largely in arrears or is up-to-date; and, perhaps,
upon whether there is a successful appeal and a new trial
with the consequent annulment of the old judgment and
the rendition of a new one. Under these circumstances it
may well happen that, in one case, where judgment is not
delayed, the plaintiff will recover a substantial sum, while
in a precisely similar case, where judgment is delayed until
the foreign currency has greatly depreciated, the sum recovered by comparison may be altogether insignificant.
See Page v. Levenson, supra, pp. 558-559; Lebeaupin v.
Crispin, supra, p. 722-723.
I am of opinion, therefore, that the judgment below
should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE BUTLER
MIR. JUSTICE SANFORD concur in this opinion.

and

MASSACHUSETTS STATE GRANGE v. BENTON,
ATTORNEY GENERAL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 296.

Argued October 13, 1926.-Decided November 23, 1926.

1. Semble that there is no inconsistency between the Daylight Saving
Acts of Massachusetts and the Act of Congress of March 19, 1918,
ยง 2, which fixes standard time with relation to the acts of federal
officers and departments and the accrual and determination of
rights and performance of acts by persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. P. 527.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

2. No injunction should issue from a federal court to restrain state
officers from enforcing a state law, unless in a case reasonably free
from doubt and when necessary to prevent great and irreparable
injury. P. 527.
3. A court of the United States should not intervene between a State
and a town of the State's creation to determine how far the town
should share in the State's benevolence. P. 528.
4. Distinction explained between want of "jurisdiction" in equity-e. g., want of a fitting case for an injunction-and want of jurisdiction, i. e., power, in the court. P. 528.
10 F. (2d) 515, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decision of the District Court dismissing
a bill brought by The Massachusetts State Grange, The
Inhabitants of the Town of Hadley, the Brotherhood of
Locomotive Engineers, and others, to enjoin Jay R.
Benton, Attorney General of Massachusetts, Frederick
W. Cook, Secretary, Payson Smith, Commissioner of Edu-

cation, et al., from performing official acts in execution
of the Daylight Savings Acts of that State.
Mr. Frank TV. Morrison for appellants.
Messrs. Jay R. Benton, Attorney General of Massachusetts, and Lewis Goldberg were on the brief, for
appellees.

NUR. JusTIcE, HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a bill brought by different parties having different and unconnected interests seeking a declaration that
the Daylight Saving Acts of Massachusetts, Acts of 1920,
c. 280, Acts of 1921, c. 145, are inconsistent with the Act
of Congress of March 19, 1918, c. 24; 40 St. 450; (see Act
of August 20, 1919, c. 51; 41 St. 280,) and unconstitutional, and asking an injunction to prevent the several
defendants from doing their respective official parts to
carry out the Massachusetts law. It was heard by three

MASS. STATE GRANGE v. BENTON.
525

Opinion of the Court.

judges in the District Court, and upon motion it was
dismissed. 10 F. (2d) 515.
The Act of Congress, ยง 2, fixes the standard time and
provides that "In all statutes, orders, rules, and regulations relating to the time of performance of any act by
any officer or department of the United States, whether
in the legislative, executive, or judicial branches of the
Government, or relating to the time within which any
rights shall accrue or determine, or within which any act
shall or shall not be performed by any person subject to
the jurisdiction of the United States, it shall be understood and intended that the time shall be the United
States standard time of the zone within which the act is
to be performed." The Massachusetts statute advances
the standard time thus fixed by one hour; and provides
that the time shall be the United States standard eastern
time so advanced, in all laws, regulations, &c., relating to
the time of performance of any act by any officer or
department of the Commonwealth or of any county, city,
&c., thereof, or relating to the time in which any rights
shall accrue or determine, or within which any act shall
or shall not be performed by any person subject to the
jurisdiction of the Commonwealth, and in all the public
schools and institutions of the Commonwealth, &c., and
in all contracts or choses in action made or to be performed in the Commonwealth.
The Court below found no inconsistency between the
two Acts and we have seen no sufficient reason for differing from it upon that point. But it also went on the
important rule, which we desire to emphasize, that no
injunction ought to issue against officers of a State clothed
with authority to enforce the law in question, unless in
a case reasonably free from doubt and when necessary
to prevent great and irreparable injury. Cavanaugh v.
Looney, 248 U. S. 453, 456. Hygrade Products Co. v.
Sherman, 266 U. S. 497, 500. Fenner v. Boykin, 271

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

U. S. 240. No such necessity is shown here. The corporations other than the Town of Hadley do not even
allege any direct interest. The Town of Hadley makes
a case that concerns none of the other plaintiffs, and
complains only that by failure to comply with the Massachusetts statute it will be held to have lost its claim
to certain State aid for its schools. It is said that in
fact Hadley has received its share and has no further
interest in the case, but in any event it is plain that a
Court of the United States would not intervene between
a State and a town of the State's creation to determine
how far the town should share in the State's benevolence.
Of the individual plaintiffs, Mann alleges that the statute
makes it more costly for him to employ labor at the first
hours of the day, that he owns land on both sides of
the New Hampshire line and has to travel to and fro
between them, that New Hampshire and the railroad
keep to the standard eastern time, and that to adjust
himself to the two standards causes him worry and
pecuniary loss. The plaintiff Snow alleges that her
children have to get up an hour earlier to go to
school and so lose an hour's sleep, and that women
who have husbands employed by the railroads as well
as children have to keep two standards of time in their
heads, and other matters that do not concern her. The
plaintiff Clarke alleges nothing that needs mention. Evidently this is not a case for an exception to the general
rule.
Courts sometimes say that there is no jurisdiction in
equity when they mean only that equity ought not to
give the relief asked. In a strict sense the Court in this
case had jurisdiction. It had power to grant an injunction, and if it had granted one its decree, although wrong,
would not have been void. But upon the merits we think
it too plain to need argument that to grant an injunction upon the allegations of this bill would be to fly in

MASS. STATE GRANGE v. BENTON.
525,

529

Opinion of McReynolds, J.

the face of the rule which, as we have said, we think
should be very strictly observed.
Decree affirmed.
The separate opinion of MR. JusTICE MCREYNOLDS.
Unless much said in Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, is
trivial or nonsense, this is a suit against Massachusetts
and beyond the possible jurisdiction of federal courts, as
expressly declared by the Eleventh Amendment. "The
judicial power of the United States shall not be construed
to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or
prosecuted against one of the United States by citizens of
another State or by citizens or subjects of any foreign
State." Accordingly, the trial court had no jurisdiction
and should have dismissed the proceeding for that
reason.
It is well to remember that the Massachusetts Daylight
Saving Act is not a criminal statute, that no penalty is
prescribed for non-observance, that no defendant was
charged with the duty of enforcement, that no proceeding against any complainant could be instituted thereunder and none was in contemplation.
The bill discloses a bald purpose to secure an adjudication
in respect of the constitutionality of a state statute. In
no just sense did it seek protection of any property right
threatened with unlawful invasion by an officer claiming
to proceed under a void enactment. Fitts v. McGhee, 172
U. S. 516, as construed in Ex parte Young, supra,pp. 156,
157, ought to be followed and treated as controlling. "In
making an officer of the State a party defendant in a suit
to enjoin the enforcement of an Act alleged to be unconstitutional it is plain that such officer must have some
connection with the enforcement of the Act, or else it is
merely making him a party as a representative of the
State, and thereby attempting to make the State a
party."
2346s*-27----34

