OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. GETTINGER AND
POMERANTZ, COPARTNERS.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 537. 'Argued November 30, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.

1. The District Court is without jurisdiction of an action to recover
from the United States the amount of a fine imposed on the plaintiffs, and paid under protest, under a penal statute afterwards
adjudged by this Court to be unconstitutional. P. 735.
2. The payment of such fine under a plea of nolo contendere, with an
attempted reservation of a right to reclaim it if the statute on
which the indictment was based were declared unconstitutional by
this Court did not create any contract with the United States. P. 735.
Reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court awarding
damages against the United States in a suit under the
Tucker Act to recover, with interest, the amount of a fine
imposed under ยง 4 of the Lever Act, which was afterwards
adjudged unconstitutional.

Mr. GardnerP. Lloyd, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr.
Randolph S. Collins, Attorney in the Department of Justce, were on the brief, for the United States.
Messrs. Isadore Bookstein and George A. King, with
whom Mr. Joseph Greenberg was on the brief, for the
defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
The District Court entered final judgment for defend-

ants in error March 9, 1925, and certified that the only
question involved was one of jurisdiction.

By an indictment returned into the United States Distr-ct Court, Northern District of New York, February
1920, defendants in error were charged with violating
ยง 4 of the Lever Act, c. 53, 40 Stat. 276, 277, as amended
October22, 1919, c. 80, 41 Stat. 297, 298, by selling women's

UNITED STATES v. GETTINGER.
734

Opinion of the Court.

apparel at unjust and unreasonable rates. They entered
pleas of nolo contendere October 8, 1920, and each undertook to "waive any and all claims which I now have or
.hereafter may have to any and all fines which the court
may see fit to impose upon me upon such plea, except
in the event that the so-called Lever Act under which
said indictment is founded shall be declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of the United States." The
court adjudged them guilty and imposed a fine of five
thousand dollars. This was paid to the clerk and by him
passed into the Treasury of the United States.
February 28, 1921, this court held ยง 4 of the Lever Act
invalid. United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S.
81. April 25, 1924, the court below undertook to set
aside the judgment of conviction and sentence entered
there October 8, 1920.
The present proceeding, begun May 24, 1924, set up
the claim that under the above-stated facts the United
States became obligated to repay to plaintiffs in error the
sum of five thousand dollars with interest. A demurrer
which raised the question of the court's jurisdiction was
overruled and the matter come here by direct writ of
error.
The attempt by plaintiffs in error to reserve rights if
the Lever Act should be held unconstitutional amounted
at most to a protest, possibly sufficient to overcome the
suggestion of an estoppel, but no contract arose out of
it which obligated the United States to return the fine.
Neither the court nor any federal officer had authority to
make such an agreement. The controlling general principles are sufficiently stated in Russell v. United States,
182 U. S. 516, 530; United States v. Holland-America
Lijn, 254 U. S. 148; United States v. Minnesota Mutual
Investment Co., 271 U. S.212.
The court below was without jurisdiction and should have
dismissed the complaint. Its judgment must be reversed.
Reversed.

