728

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Parties.

272 U. S.

her duty to take the ordinary course. This she did
not do.
What has been said of the second question renders it
unnecessary to discuss the third.
The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals are
Affirmed.
HEIRS OF SAMUEL GARLAND, DECEASED,
CHOCTAW NATION.

PITCHLY1N ET

AL.,

,.

HEIRS-AT-LAW, v. CHOCTAW
NATION.

APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Ncs. 42, 43. Argued December 1, 2, 1926.--Decided January 3, 1927.
1. Upon a reference to determine a claim for services on a quantum
meruit basis, when the Court of Claims finds the amounts already
paid the claimant, and dismisses his petition, or renders judgment
for an additional sum, this is a determination that he was not
entitled to more, although there is no definite finding of the value
of the services. P.730.
2. In determining the value of services rendered the Choctaw Nation,
the Court of Claims was not bound by opinions of the Choctaw
legislature or executive officers. P. 731.
59 Ct. Cls. 768; Id. 796, affirmed.

APPEALS from decisions of the Court of Claims on
claims for services, against the Choctaw Nation, referred
to that Court by Acts of Congress. See Garland'sHeirs v.
Choctaw Nation, 256 U. S. 439.
Mr.HarryPeyton for appellants, in No. 42.
Messrs. Harry Peyton and Thomas P. Gore for appellants, in No. 43.
Assistant Attorney General Galloway, with whom
Soliitor General Mitchell, and Messrs. George T. Stormont, and Hampton Tucker were on the brief, for appellee, in Nos. 42 and 43.

GARLAND'S HEIRS v. CHOCTAW NATION. 729
728

MR.

Opinion of the Court.
JUSTICE

McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These causes, although heard separately and upon
different records, may be disposed of conveniently by one
opinion.
Samuel Garland, Peter P. Pitchlynn and two others
were appointed delegates of the Choctaw Nation under an
Act of the Legislative Assembly approved November 9,
1853, and charged with the duty of pressing to settlement
a claim against the United States for ceded lands. They
performed valuable services and each of them received
therefor considerable sums of money. Their heirs sought
large additional payments. Finally Congress referred the
matter to the Court of Claims. The Act of June 21, 1906,
c. 3504, 34 Stat. 325, 345, provides"That the Court of Claims is hereby authorized and
directed to hear and adjudicate the claims against the
Choctaw Nation of the heirs of Peter P. Pitchlynn, deceased, and to render judgment thereon in such amounts,
if any, as may appear to be equitably due. Said judgment, if any, in favor of the heirs of Pitchlynn, shall be
paid out of any funds in the Treasury of the United
States belonging to the Choctaw Nation, said judgment to
be rendered on the principle of quantum meruit for services rendered and expenses incurred. Notice of said suit
shall be served on the governor of the Choctaw Nation,
and the Attorney-General of the United States shall appear and defend in said suit on behalf of said nation."
A like Act, approved May 29, 1908, c. 216, 35 Stat. 444,
445, directed adjudication of the claim of Samuel Garland,
deceased.
Garland's heirs brought suit in the Court of Claims
September 3, 1908. It held against them upon the theory
that the delegation which represented the Choctaw Nation
should be treated as a unit and as such had been fully

730

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 V. S.

paid for the entire service. Upon appeal, this Court
reversed the judgment and sent the cause back, after
saying-" The contention under the facts disclosed in the
petition is technical. The petition showed services rendered and, if the petition be true, valuable services-and
for them there should have been recovery if the Nation
was liable, and we think it was. How much we do not
say nor did the Court of Claims consider, it being of
opinion that the Nation was not liable for anything.
Upon the return of the case it may determine the amount
due Garland, if anything, dependent upon what his services contributed in securing the congressional appropriation." Garland's Heirs v. Choctaw Nation, 256 U. S.

439, 445.
Much evidence has been presented in both causes and
there are elaborate findings. The court held the heirs of
Garland-No. 42-were not entitled to recover anything,
and dismissed their petition. It rendered judgment for
$3,113.92 in favor of Pitchlynn's heirs-No. 43. The
causes are here by appeals allowed, respectively, January
19 and February 2, 1925.
In neither cause did the Court of Claims definitely find
tLe value of the services rendered by the delegate, but it
a scertained and stated the sums received by each of them.
By dismissing the petition of Garland's heirs, it adjudged,
in effect, that he had received full compensation; and the
judgment in favor of Pitchlynn's heirs for $3,113.92 determined that the amount theretofore received plus such
recovery would amount to full compensation for his
services.
We think the findings of fact sufficient to permit us to
dispose of the causes, and accordingly deny the motion to
remand.
The enabling Acts very clearly provide for recoveries
upon the principle of quantum meruit for services rendered
and expenses incurred. The Court of Claims was not

DE LA METTRIE v. JAMES.
728

Statement of the Case.

bound to accept opinions of the legislature or executive
officers of the Choctaw Nation; its duty was to determine
for itself what the services were worth. After consideration of the evidence it reached the above-stated conclusions, and we find no adequate reason for overturning
the result.
The judgments below are
Affirmed.

DE LA METTRIE ET AL. v. DE GASQUET JAMES
ET AL.

KEANE, RECEIVER, v. DE GASQUET JAMES ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

Nos. 54, 55.

Argued December 6, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.

1. Under ยง 9-e of the Trading with the Enemy Act, a debt to one
who is not a citizen of the United States can not be allowed unless
it "arose with reference to money or property" held by the Alien
Property Custodian or the Treasurer of the United States. P. 732.
2. The debts in this case,---consisting of judgments against a person
whose interest in a fund was seized by the Custodian--did not so
arise. Id.
3. A receiver appointed by a New York Court in proceedings supplementary to execution, to collect the judgments, was in no better
position than the judgment creditors. Trading with the Enemy
Act, ยง 9-f. P. 733.
55 App. D. C. 354; 6 F. (2d) 479, affirmed.
APPEALS from decrees of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia which sustained the Supreme Court
of the District in refusing to permit Keane, receiver, to
intervene in a suit under the Trading with the Enemy
Act, and in dismissing the suit after hearing. The plaintiffs, Pauline Andr6 de la Mettrie and George Pratt de
Gasquet James, in 1915, had recovered judgments against
the defendant Elizabeth Pratt de Gasquet James, in the
settlement of her accounts as executrix of her husband's

