576

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Statement of the Case.

272 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES.

In Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625, where a fund was
given in trust for the donor's widow and children, reserving to the donor a general power of revocation and the
disposition of the income during his life, it was held that
upon his death an inheritance tax could be levied in Wisconsin, the place of his domicile, although the trustee and
trust fund were outside of the jurisdiction. The general
power was considered to have the same effect as ownership. In this case the power was not so broad, because it
was to be executed only by will; but the command over
the fund was substantially the same. Mrs. Taylor, the
donee, had the life interest and the power to dispose of the
remainder by a will which she could bind herself to make.
I dare say that it may be desirable to limit the universita3
as was done in Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473, but
I cannot help doubting whether the present decision can
be reconciled with Bullen's case.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE STONE concur
in this view.
OTTINGER, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF NEW
YORK, v. CONSOLIDATED GAS COMPANY OF
NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 357. Argued October 18, 19, 1926.-Decided November 29, 1926.
An Act of New York, c. 899, (1923), prescribing a gas rate of one
dollar per thousand feet, held confiscatory. P. 579.
6 F. (2d) 243, modified and affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court enjoining enforcement of a New York rate-fixing statute, in a
suit brought by the Gas Company against the Attorney

OTTINGER v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
576

577

Opinion of the Court.

General of the State and the New York Public Service
Commission.
Mr. John Holley Clark, Jr., with whom Messrs. Albert
Ottinger, Attorney General of New York, William Hayward, and Charles E. Buchner were on the brief, for
appellant.
Messrs. John A. Garver and William L. Ransom for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In Newton v. ConsolidatedGas Company, 258 U. S. 165,
decided March 6, 1922, this Court held that Chapter 125,
New York Laws 1906, which prescribed an eighty cent per
thousand feet gas rate, had become confiscatory and
should not be enforced. Thereafter the New York Public Service Commission made careful investigation of the
property and operations of appellee and prescribed a rate
not exceeding one dollar and fifteen cents per thousand
for gas of five hundred and thirty-seven British thermal
units, effective October 1, 1922, to continue for one year.
Acceptance of this order, the company now claims, consummated a binding agreement with the State. The
Legislature, by an Act approved June 2, 1923, c. 899,
Laws 1923, effective immediately, directed that thereafter
in New York City not more than one dollar per thousand
feet should be demanded for gas of six hundred and fifty
British thermal units.
By an original bill in the United States District Court,
Southern District of New York, wherein the Public Service Commission and the Attorney General of that State
were the defendants, appellee attacked the Act of June 2,
1923, as confiscatory and prayed for an injunction prohibiting enforcement thereof. It also asked that the Act
be adjudged void because enforcement would impair the
23468-27-37

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

company's contract with the State under the Commission's order, contrary to Article I, Section 10, of the federal Constitution. Further, that the Act be declared invalid because of the impossibility of supplying immediately and with safety to consumers gas of six hundred
and fifty thermal units. Answers followed and the matter went to a master, who took much proof, found the
value of the property dedicated to public use, cost of
operation, the impossibility of furnishing safely gas of
the prescribed standard, etc. He reported the one dollar
rate would not yield a fair return upon such property
estimated according to any reasonable standard and,
therefore, recommended that the Act be declared confiscatory and unenforcible. He further recommended that
it be declared invalid because in conflict with Article I,
Section 10, also because compliance therewith was practically impossible. The court confirmed this report without material modification, adjudged as recommended and
granted the injunction prayed for. 6 Fed. (2d) 243.
The Commission, wisely we think, declined to ask
review here of the final decree. The Attorney General
sued out a broad, separate appeal. His petition therefor
alleges: "That in substance the decree restrains the defendants from enforcing in any way Chapter 899 of the
Laws of 1923 of the State of New York and declares that
said statute violates or is in contravention of Section 10
of Article I and of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States." There is an enormous record. Seventy-one assignments of error assail
rulings of the court and question many of the master's
actions and conclusions.
Although somewhat oracular-as in the lines which
make solemn declaration concerning the position which
this court must ultimately take regarding valuations in
rate cases-and too much burdened with unimportant
dissertations, the report of the master contains a valuable
analysis of the relevant evidence and clear statements

OTTINGER v. BROOKLYN UNION CO.
576

579

Syllabus.

concerning values. It also sets out distinctly what the
evidence discloses as to the cost of production, expenses
of the business, etc. He concluded that the prescribed
rate of one dollar per thousand feet would not yield a
return of six per centum and was therefore confiscatory.
With this conclusion the court below agreed, and we find
nothing whatever suggested by the Attorney General in
brief or oral argument which would justify material modification or reversal of the final decree in so far as it so
adjudges and directs appropriate injunctions.
As the statute is clearly confiscatory and therefore
invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment, it was unnecessary for the trial court to consider other objections
thereto, and we have not done so.
The decree of the District Court will be modified by
excluding therefrom those parts which declare the Act
invalid for any reason except that enforcement would
result in confiscation. Thus modified, it is affirmed. All
costs of the appeal will be taxed against appellant.
Affirmed with modification.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in the result.

OTTINGER, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF NEW
YORK, v. BROOKLYN UNION GAS COMPANY.
OTTINGER, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF NEW
YORK, v. KINGS COUNTY LIGHTING COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 358, 365.

Argued October 18, 19, 1926.-Decided November
29, 1926.

An Act of New York, c. 899, (1923), prescribing a gas rate of one
dollar per thousand feet, held confiscatory. P. 581.
7 F. (2d) 192; Id. 628, modified and affirmed.

