LAMBERT v. YELLOWLEY.
579

Syllabus.

important, these reports were approved and the court
adjudged the statute confiscatory and therefore invalid.
Also, that it was unreasonable and invalid in respect of
the standard of six hundred and fifty British thermal
units. 7 Fed. (2d) 192, 628.
The Commission declined to ask for an appeal to this
court. The Attorney General, upon petitions which allege " that in substance the decree restrains the defendants from enforcing in any way Chapter 899 of the Laws
of 1923 of the State of New York and declares that said
statute violates or is in contravention of Section 10 of
Article I and of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States," sued out broad appeals
and has presented many assignments of error-one hundred and seven in No. 358, and twenty-one in No. 365.
But we find no reason whatever advanced by him in
brief or oral argument which would justify reversal of
either decree.
The statute was clearly confiscatory in effect and there
was no necessity for the District Court to consider any
other objection thereto. We have not done so.
The decrees will be modified by excluding therefrom
such parts as adjudge the statute invalid for any reason
except conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment because
confiscatory in effect. Thus modified, both are affirmed.
All costs will be taxed against appellant.

Affirmed as modified.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in the result.

LAMBERT v. YELLOWLEY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 47.

Argued April 30, 1926.-Decided November 29, 1926.

1. The provision of the National Prohibition Act that "Not more
than a pint of spirituous liquor to be taken internally shall be

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellant.

272 U. S.

prescribed for use by the same person within any period of ten
days and no prescription shall be filled more than once," is "appropriate legislation," within the meaning of the Eighteenth Amendment for enforcing its prohibition of the manufacture, sale, and
transportation of intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes. P. 589.
2. Whatever the belief of a physician in the medicinal value of alcoholic liquor, his right to administer it to patients is subordinate to
the powers granted to Congress by the Eighteenth Amendment.
P. 596.
4 F. (2d) 915, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which reversed a decree of the District Court (291 Fed.
640), enjoining Yellowley, a prohibition director, and
other officials, from interfering with the plaintiff, Dr.
Lambert, in his acts as a physician in prescribing vinous or
spirituous liquors to his patients for medicinal purposes
in quantities exceeding the limits fixed by the National
Prohibition Act.
Messrs. Joseph S. Auerbach and Martin A. Scheiek,
with whom Miss Emily C. Holt was on the brief, for
appellant.
The Eighteenth Amendment, in prohibiting the use
of intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes, does not
prohibit, or delegate the power to prohibit, medicinal use.
Limitations are-inherent in the terms of the Amendment;
manufacture, sale, transportation, importation, and exportation. The prescription of alcoholic liquor for medicinal purposes was a long recognized relationship. Such
relationship is not prohibited and is not inferentially to
be included within any of the five specified prohibited
relationships. The Amendment contains-a further clearly
defined limitation which modifies and controls each of the
five definite classes of prohibited relationships. They are
prohibited for one specific class of purpose. They are
prohibited only "for beverage purposes."
It would have been easy to express a general and sweeping prohibition. The mentioning of the specific purpose
is solely as a limitation. Where the remainder of the sub-

IJAMBERT v. YELLOWLEY.
581

.583

Argument for Appellant.

ject matter is left in other jurisdictions, the granting of
power to Congress under this phraseology is necessarily a
limitation to the purpose expressed. For example, industrial use is not prohibited. And it has been well held that
there is "nothing in the Eighteenth Amendment grounding such power" to prohibit industrial use and that the
use of alcohol for non-beverage purposes is a right protected by due process of law. McGill v. Mellon, 5 F. (2d)
262. Powers of definition and regulation present quite
another question. Selzman v. United States, 268 U. S.
466. At the time of the drafting and ratification of the
Amendment, the term " beverage purpose" in prohibition
legislation had a generally accepted meaning. Beverage
purpose was the antithesis of medicinal use. Commonwealth v. Mandeville, 142 Mass. 469; Gue v. Eugene, 53
Ore. 282; State v. Roach, 75 Me. 123; State v. Costa, 78
Vt. 198; Bowman v. State, 38 Tex. Cr. 14; Thomasson v.
State, 15 Ind. 449; State v. Larrimore, 19 Mo. 391; Sarrls
v. Commonwealth, 83 Ky. 327; Nixon v. State, 76 Ind.
524.
The Amendment sets forth a third separate class of
limitation. The enforcement of the powers delegated
under § 1 must, in accordance with § 2, be by appropriate
legislation. This incorporates in the amendment the
doctrine laid down by this Court that Congress cannot,
in the exercise of the powers thus carefully limited, under
the guise of enforcement, extend its powers to matters
inappropriate. United States v. Harris, 177 U. S. 305;
National ProhibitionCases, 253 U. S. 350.
The States, when they ratified the Amendment, not
only were justified in relying upon the fact that under the
very phraseology of the Amendment, as such terms had
been used in the construction of prohibition laws by the
courts, medicinal use was reserved; but could rely upon
the express assurance of that fact given by the Senate
Judiciary Committee in reporting the measure.

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1926..
Argument for Appellant.

272 U. S.

Prohibition of medicinal use is inappropriate to reasonable enforcement of prohibition as to beverage purpose.
The physician, as this Court has recognized, is one whose
relationships to life and health are of the most intimate
character. He must possess the knowledge of diseases
and their remedies, and also be safely entrusted to apply
those remedies. It is thus the province of the States to
require safeguards upon his character, his training, his
knowledge-all for the purpose of securing to the patient
an honest exercise of trained and intelligent judgment in
the application of remedy to disease. Hawker v. New
York, 170 U. S. 189; Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114;
Tiedeman, Control of Persons & Property, § 85, p. 239;
Freund, Police Power, § 650.
The Act recognizes that the physician of trained judgment may properly determine that the prescription of
alcoholic liquor is necessary to the treatment of a patient
suffering from some known ailment, and that medicinal
use is not a beverage purpose; Tit. II, §§ 6, 7, 8. This
recognition on the part of Congress, that in the honest
trained judgment of a physician the prescription of alcoholic liquor, according to fair medical standards, may be
necessary to the cure of a patient, emphasizes the unreasonableness and arbitrary character of the rigid prohibition of more than one pint in ten days, regardless of the
judgment of the physician and regardless of the need of
the patient. The limitation eliminates any adequate prescription of liquor as a remedy in diseases running a course
requiring it. Congress, after having recognized that some
amount may be necessary, without looking into the question as to what amount will be required in the treatment
of various diseases, rigidly fixes upon a useless, unreasonable, and arbitrary maximum amount and prohibits all
else.
The question as to reasonableness has been peculiarly
centered upon these particular spirituous liquor provisions

LAMBERT v. YELLOWLEY.
581

Argument for Appellant.

of the Volstead Act and of the supplemental Willis-Campbell Act. Everard'sBreweries v. Day, 265 U. S. 545, following United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S. 86, decided that
Congress, had found, upon testimony, that the medicinal
value of malt liquors is not such as to require that their
prescription be permitted, in view of access to vinous and
spirituous liquors. The outstanding feature of the legislation in its present aspect is that it proceeds upon no
investigation in regard to the facts, that it recognizes the
necessity but prohibits the remedy, and that it has no
relationship, in appropriateness, to the enforcement features of the powers delegated. The only constitutional
guarantee of the citizen in such a situation is that this
Court will insist upon the doctrine of appropriateness
which has here been incorporated into the fundamental
law by the very terms of the Amendment. Unless this is
insisted upon, under guise of enforcement features, distinctions between powers of Congress and powers of the
States are lost, and matters never intended to be delegated
by the States to Congress are, nevertheless in violation of
the terms of the grant, appropriated. Lochner v. New
York, 198 U. S. 45; Freund, Police Power, § 223, p. 210.
This Court has on closely analogous facts arrived at the
conclusion of unreasonableness of such legislative provisions, and that the resultant control of medical practice in
the States is inappropriate and unnecessary to reasonable
enforcement. Linder v. United States, 268 U. S. 5. See
also United States v. Daugherty, 269 U. S. 360; United
States v. Doremus, 249 U. S. 86; Hammer v. Dagenhart,
247 U. S. 251; Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20; Hill v.
Wallace, 259 U. S. 44; Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590;
Childrens Hospital v. Adkins, 284 Fed. 613.
United States v. Freund, 290 Fed. 411, held that it
was an extravagant and unreasonable attempt to subordinate the judgment of the trained physician to that of
Congress in respect of matters with which the former

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellees.

272 U. S.

alone is competent to deal; that it infringes upon the
duty of the physician to prescribe in accordance with his
honest judgment, and upon the right of the patient to
receive the benefit of the judgment of the physician of
his choice.
The limitations enumerated in the terms of the Eighteenth Amendment preclude any argument that there was
an intention that the police power of the States, in regard
to the regulation of medicine, be interfered with. Barbier v. Connelly, 113 U. S. 27; Hammer v. Dagenhart,
247 U. S. 251; Bailey v. Drexel, 259 U. S. 20.
Assistant Attorney General Willebrandt, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. Mahlon D. Kiefer,
Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on the brief,
for appellees.
Restrictions on prescribing whiskey and wine are "appropriate" legislation to enforce the Eighteenth Amendment.
In legislating for the entire nation Congress adopted a
much more liberal policy with reference to the prescription of intoxicating liquors for medicinal purposes than
obtained in a majority of the States which had adopted
prohibition prior to the ratification of the Eighteenth
Amendment. When the Supplemental Act of 1921 was
passed, approximately forty States had restricted the prescription of beverage intoxicants in some form, and in
more than thirty the restriction was either the same as,
or more rigid than, that provided in the federal law. In
eleven States no intoxicating liquor of any kind could be
prescribed. In Colorado the limitation was four ounces,
and in Michigan eight ounces. In eleven other States
pure alcohol only could be prescribed.
There is no right to practice medicine which is not subordinate to the police power. Congress recognized State
experience and in the exercise of its police power followed

LAMBERT v. YELLOWLEY.
581

Opinion of the Court.

the lead of the States. Where there is conflict over the
form in which a physician wishes to administer alcohol,
the physician must yield to such requirements as "the
lawful authority deems necessary." Gray v. Connecticut,
159 U. S. 74; Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114; Watson v. Maryland, 218 U. S. 173; Reetz v. Michigan, 188
U. S. 505; O'Neil v. State, 115 Tenn. 427; State v. Davis,
194 Mo. 485; State v. Rosenkrans, 30 R. I. 374; State v.
Edmunds, 127 Iowa 333.
Legislative Acts are presumed constitutional. Interstate Ry. Co. v. Massachusetts,207 U. S.79; Hamilton v.
Kentucky Distilleries,251 U. S. 146. Everard'sBreweries
v. Day, 265 U. S. 545. See Price v. Russell, 296 Fed. 263.
Mr. William C. Woodward filed a brief as amicus curiae
by special leave of Court, on behalf of the American
Medical Association.
Messrs. Wayne B. Wheeler and Edward B. Dunford
filed a brief as amici curiae by special leave of Court.
MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The National Prohibition Act, October 28, 1919, c. 85,
Title II, § 7, 41 Stat. 305, 311, provides: "No one but a
physician holding a permit to prescribe liquor shall issue
any prescription for liquor.

.

. Not more than a pint

of spirituous liquor to be taken internally shall be prescribed for use by the same person within any period of
ten days and no prescription shall be filled more than
once." The supplemental Act of November 23, 1921, c.
134, § 2, 42 Stat. 222, has a related but broader restriction to which reference will be made later on. Violation
of the provision subjects the offender to fine or imprisonment or both. The limitation as to amount applies only
to alcoholic liquor "fit for use for beverage purposes."
National Prohibition Act, Title II, § 1. "Medicinal
preparations manufactured in accordance with formulas

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

prescribed by the United States Pharmacopoeia, National Formulary or the American Institute of Homeopathy that are unfit for use for beverage purposes,"
and "patented, patent, and proprietary medicines that
are unfit for use for beverage purposes," are specifically
exempted from the operation of the provision. § 4(b)
and (c). Moreover, the limitation does not apply to
prescriptions for such liquor to be administered in certain
hospitals. § 6.
In November, 1922, Samuel W. Lambert of New York
City, a distinguished physician, brought in the federal
court for that district, this suit to enjoin Edward Yellowley, the acting Federal Prohibition Director, and other
officials, "from interfering with complainant in his acts
as a physician in prescribing vinous or spirituous liquors
to his patients for medicinal purposes, upon the ground
that the quantities prescribed for the use of any one person in any period of ten days exceed the limits fixed by
said Acts, or either of them." As the basis for this relief
the bill set forth Dr. Lambert's qualifications and experience as a physician; his belief that in certain cases, including some subject to his professional advice, the use
of spirituous liquor internally as a medicine in an amount
exceeding one pint in ten days is necessary for the proper
treatment of patients in order to afford relief from human
ailments; and that he does not intend to prescribe the use
of liquor for beverage purposes. It alleged that to treat
the diseases of his patients and to promote their physical
well-being, according to the untrammelled exercise of his
best skill and scientifically trained judgment, and, to that
end, to advise the use of such medicines and medical
treatment as in his opinion are best calculated to effect
their cure and establish their health, is an essential part
of his constitutional rights as a physician.
In May, 1923, the case was heard upon an application
for an interlocutory injunction and a motion to dismiss.
The District Court issued the injunction. 291 Fed. 640.

LAMBERT v. YELLOWLEY.
581

Opinion of the Court.

In December, 1924, the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the decree, and
directed that the bill be dismissed. 4 F. (2d) 915. In
the interval, this Court had decided Hixon v. Oakes, 265
U. S. 254, and Everard'sBreweries v. Day, 265 U. S. 545.
In the latter, Dr. Lambert's counsel was permitted to file
a brief, and to present an oral argument. The appeal in
the case at bar was taken under §§ 128 and 241 of the
Judicial Code and was allowed before the passage of the
Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936. The claim
is that the provision assailed is unconstitutional, because
it has no real or substantial relation to the appropriate
enforcement of the Eighteenth Amendment; that in
enacting the provision Congress exceeded the powers delegated to it by the Amendment; and that thereby complainant's fundamental rights are violated.
The Eighteenth Amendment, besides prohibiting by § 1
the manufacture, sale and transportation of intoxicating
liquors for beverage purposes, confers upon Congress by
§ 2, in terms, the power to enforce the prohibition by appropriate legislation. That the limitation upon the
amount of liquor which may be prescribed for medicinal
purposes, is a provision adapted to promote the purpose
of the amendment is clear. That the provision is not
arbitrary appears from the evidence considered by Congress I which embodies, among other things, the lessons
of half a century of experience in the several States in
dealing with the liquor problem.' That evidence disHouse Report No. 224, 67th Cong., 1st Sess., Ser. No. 7920;
before the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of
Representatives on H. R. 5033, 15-16, 146; 61 Cong. Rec. 3456,
4035, 4036, 4038, 8749-8757.
1 See

Hearings

2 At the time of the passage of the National Prohibition Act, and/or
the Willis-Campbell Act, the following state legislation concerning the
prescription of alcoholic beverages for medicinal purposes was in
effect. In 7 States no intoxicating liquor of any kind could be prescribed. Ariz. Const. Art. 23, Cooper v. State, 19 Ariz. 486; 1915

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

closed that practicing physicians differ about the value
of malt, vinous and spirituous liquors for medicinal purposes, but that the preponderating opinion is against
their use for such purposes; and that among those who
prescribe them there are some who are disposed to give
prescriptions where the real purpose is to divert the liquor
to beverage uses. Indeed, the American Medical AssociaIda. Laws, c. 11, 1921 Ida. Laws, c. 50; 1917 Kan. Laws, c. 215,
State v. Miller, 92 Kan. 994, 1000; 1916 Me. Rev. Stat. c. 20, § 17;
1915 N. C. Laws, c. 97, § 8; 1917 Utah Laws, c. 2, § 30; 1917 Wash.
Laws, c. 19, § 2. In 3 States prescriptions could be made only if the
liquor was made unfit for beverage purposes. 1919 Ga. Laws, No.
139, § 4(b); 1917 Neb. Laws, c. 187, § 25; 1921 N. Dak. Laws, c. 97,
§ 2. In 15 States only alcohol could be prescribed for medicinal
purposes. 1919 Ala. Acts, No. 7, §§ 5, 7; 1919 Ark. Laws, c. 87, § 17;
1919 Del. Laws, c. 291, §§ 8, 14; 1918 Fla. Laws, c. 7736; § 5, amended
by 1919 Fla. Laws, c. 7890, § 1; 1917 Ind. Acts, c. 4, § 13; 1908
Miss. Laws, c. 113; N. Mex. Const. Art. 23, 1919 N. Mex. Laws, c.
151; 1919 Nev. Stats., c. 1, § 4; 1910-1911 Okla. Laws, c. 70: § 1;
1915 Ore. Laws, c. 141, § 6(g), as amended by 1917 Ore. Laws, c. 40,
§ 2; 1921 S. C. Crim. Code, §§ 797, 798; 1919 S. Dak. Rev. Code,
§ 10273, as amended by 1919 S. Dak. Laws, c. 246, § 1; 1917 Tenn.
Acts, No. 68, § 6; 1919 Tex. Laws, 2d Sess., c. 78, §§ 13, 14; 1921
W. Va. Acts, e. 115, amending c. 32A, § 4, Barnes' West Va. Code.
In 3 States no more than a stated quantity of intoxicating liquor fit
for beverage purposes can be prescribed at one time. 1915 Colo.
Laws, c. 98, § 18; 1919 Mich. Acts, No. 53, § 19, People v. Urcavitch,
210 Mich. 431; 1918 Va. Acts, c. 388, § 13. In 11 States the standards of the federal law have been specifically adopted. 1921 Cal.
Stats., c. 80; 1921 Ill. Laws, pp. 681, 687, § 8; 1920 Ky. Acts, c. 81,
§ 23; 1919 Minn. Laws, c. 455, § 7, as amended by 1921 Minn.
Laws, c. 391, § 7; 1921 Mont. Laws, Ex. Sess., c. 9, § 6; 1921 N. J.
Laws, c. 150, § 44; 1921 N. Y. Laws, c. 155, § 1214; 1921 Ohio Laws,
p. 194, § 1; 1921 Vt. Laws, No. 204, § 5; 1921 Wis. Laws, c. 441,

§ 1(9); 1921 Wyo. Laws, c. 117, § 7. In 2 States only physicians
holding a federal permit may prescribe such liquors. 1921 Conn.
Pub. Acts, c. 291, § 4; 1922 R. I. Acts, e. 2231, § 4. In New Hampshire no limitations are placed upon the prescribing physician, save
exercise of professional skill and the employment of specific forms
and the keeping of records. 1919 N. H. Laws, e. 99, § 2, amending

1917 N. H. Laws, c. 147, §§ 16, 17.

LAMBERT v. YELLOWLEY.
581

Opinion of the Court.

tion, at its meeting in 1917, had declared that the use
of alcoholic liquor as a therapeutic agent was without
"scientific basis" and "should be discouraged," and, at
its meeting in June, 1921, had adopted a resolution saying
"reproach has been brought upon the medical profession by some of its members who have misused the law
which permits the prescription of alcohol." With this as
the situation to be met, the Judiciary Committee of the
House of Representatives reported with favorable recommendation the bill which became the Act of November 23,
1921, whereby the prescription of intoxicating malt liquor
for medicinal purposes is entirely prohibited, and the prescription of other intoxicating liquors is subjected to the
following restrictions:
"No physician shall prescribe nor shall any person
sell or furnish on any prescription, any vinous liquor that
contains more than 24 per centum of alcohol by volume,
nor shall any one prescribe or sell or furnish on any
prescription more than one-fourth of one gallon of vinous
liquor, or any such vinous or spirituous liquor that contains separately or in the aggregate more than one-half
pint of alcohol, for use by any person within any period
of ten days. No physician shall be furnished with more
than one hundred prescription blanks for use in any
period of ninety days, nor shall any physician issue more
than that number of prescriptions within any such period
unless on application therefor he shall make it clearly
apparent to the commissioner that for some extraordinary reason a larger amount is necessary whereupon the
necessary additional blanks may be furnished him."
The Committee said, in reporting the bill (House Report No. 224, 67th Cong., 1st Sess.):
"Section 2 prohibits the use of beer as medicine and
limits the alcoholic strength and the quantity of wine
that may be prescribed. It also provides that no liquor
shall be prescribed for use in any period of 10 days that

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

contains more alcohol than that heretofore allowed. Under the national prohibition act 1 pint of beverage spirits
can be prescribed. With the passage of this bill both
spirituous and vinous liquor may be prescribed in one
prescription, but the combined content of both liquors
must not exceed one-half pint of alcohol. The purpose of this provision is not to increase the alcoholic
content of the liquor that may be consumed, but to give
physicians a choice between spirituous and vinous liquor
within certain specified limits as to quantity.
"This section also writes into the law the present
regulation as to the number of prescriptions that may
be issued by a physician. One hundred are allowed within
a period of 90 days, but this may be exceeded in cases
of extraordinary circumstances such as the prevalence of
contagious or epidemic diseases. Under ordinary circumstances reputable physicians only write a small fraction
of this number, and only about 22 per cent. of the doctors
hold permits to prescribe liquor of any kind, although
they can be obtained without any fee, simply for the asking. There are a number of States in which the State
laws prohibit physicians from prescribing liquor of any
kind."
And also:
"While the majority of the States prohibit wine for
medicinal purposes it was not deemed best by the committee that such provision should be inserted in the prohibition act at this time. In order, however, that this
privilege should not be abused, it was deemed best to
specifically limit its use, the same as has been done with
spirituous liquor. Unless some limit is placed upon the
amount of such liquors that may be prescribed, a number
of physicians who do not have the high ethical standards
of the large majority will abuse the privilege. Evidence
was presented to the commnittee of physicians who issued
hundreds of prescriptions within a few days when the

LAMBERT v. YELLOWLEY.
581

Opinion of the Court.

total number of other prescriptions was a negligible number. In view of the fact that most of the States have
more stringent provisions than the one contained in section 2, this legislation will work no hardship upon the
profession."
In Everard's Breweries v. Day, 265 U. S. 545, the validity of the provision prohibiting the prescription of malt
liquor was assailed as going beyond the power of Congress
and impinging upon the reserved powers of the States,
in that it is an interference with the regulation of health
and the practice of medicine, both of which are within the
domain of the state power and outside the legislative
power of Congress. The suit was against the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and other federal officers, and
its chief purpose was to enjoin them from enforcing the
provision prohibiting the prescription of malt liquor for
medicinal purposes. This Court, besides observing that
the "ultimate and controlling question" in the case was
whether the provision prohibiting physicians from prescribing intoxicating malt liquors for medicinal purposes
is within the power given to Congress by the Eighteenth
Amendment, to enforce by "appropriate legislation" its
prohibition of the manufacture, sale, etc., of intoxicating
liquor for beverage purposes, proceeded to consider every
phase of the question, and in conclusion held that the
provision was appropriate legislation for the purpose and
within the power of Congress, although affecting subjects
which, but for the Amendment, would be entirely within
State control. The Court referred to the settled rule
that where the means adopted by Congress in exerting an
express power are calculated to effect its purpose, it is not
admissible for the judiciary to inquire into the degree of
their necessity, and then said (p. 560):
"We cannot say that prohibiting traffic in intoxicating
malt liquors for medicinal purposes has no real or substantial relation to the enforcement of the Eighteenth
2340-27-38

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

Amendment, and is not adapted to accomplish that end
and make the constitutional prohibition effective. The
difficulties always attendant upon the suppression of
traffic in intoxicating liquors are notorious. Crane v.
Campbell, 245 U. S. 304, 307. The Federal Government
in enforcing prohibition is confronted with difficulties
similar to those encountered by the States. Ruppert v.
Caffey, supra, p. 297. The opportunity to manufacture,
sell and prescribe intoxicating malt liquors for 'medicinal
purposes,' opens many doors to clandestine traffic in them
as beverages under the guise of medicines; facilitates
many frauds, subterfuges and artifices; aids evasion; and,
thereby and to that extent, hampers and obstructs the
enforcement of the Eighteenth Amendment."
The Court further held that Congress must be regarded
as having concluded-as it well might do in the absence
of any consensus of opinion among physicians and in the
presence of the absolute prohibition in many of the
States-that malt liquor has no substantial medicinal
qualities making its prescription necessary; and that this
made it impossible to say the provision was an unreasonable and arbitrary exercise of power.
We have spoken of that case at length because the
decision was by a unanimous court and if adhered to disposes of the present case. If Congress may prohibit the
manufacture and sale of intoxicating malt liquor for
medicinal purposes by way of enforcing the Eighteenth
Amendment, it equally and to the same end may restrict
the prescription of other intoxicating liquor for medicinal
purposes. In point of power there is no difference; if
in point of expediency there is a difference, that is a
matter which Congress alone may consider. Experience
has shown that opportunities for doing what the Constitution forbids are present in both instances, and that advantage not infrequently is taken of these opportunities.
Congress, in deference to the belief of a fraction of the
medical profession that vinous and spirituous liquors have

LAMBERT v. YELLOWLEY.
581

Opinion of the Court.

some medicinal value, has said that they may be prescribed in limited quantities according to stated regulations; but it also has said that they shall not be prescribed in larger quantities, nor without conforming to
the regulations, because this would be attended with too
much risk of the diversion of the liquor to beverage uses.
Not only so, but the limitation as to quantity must be
taken as embodying an implicit congressional finding that
such liquors have no such medicinal value as gives rise to
a need for larger or more frequent prescriptions. Such
a finding, in the presence of the well-known diverging
opinions of physicians, cannot be regarded as arbitrary or
without a reasonable basis. On the whole, therefore, we
think it plain that the restrictions imposed are admissible
measures for enforcing the prohibition ordained by the
Eighteenth Amendment.
A later case applying like principles is Selzm an v.
United States, 268 U. S. 466. There a section of the National Prohibition Act forbidding the sale of denatured
alcohol without a compliance with certain regulations
was assailed as beyond the authority of Congress under
the Eighteenth Amendment upon the ground that the
Amendment relates only to traffic in intoxicating liquor
for beverage purposes, and that, as denatured alcohol is
not usable as a beverage, authority to prevent or regulate
its sale is not given to Congress by the Amendment, but
remains exclusively in the States. This Court held the
section valid for the following reasons:
"The power of the Federal Government, granted by
the Eighteenth Amendment, to enforce the prohibition of
the manufacture, sale and transportation of intoxicating
liquor carries with it power to enact any legislative measures reasonably adapted to promote the purpose. The
denaturing in order to render the making and sale of
industrial alcohol compatible with the enforcement of
prohibition of alcohol for beverage purposes is not always

596

OCTOBER TERMT, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

effective. The ignorance of some, the craving and the
hardihood of others, and the fraud and cupidity of still
others, often tend to defeat its object. It helps the
main purpose of the Amendment, therefore, to hedge
about the making and disposition of the denatured article
every reasonable precaution and penalty to prevent the
proper industrial use of it from being perverted to drinking it."
From the authority of these cases Dr. Lambert seeks
to escape by pointing out that he is a physician and
believes that the use of spirituous liquor as a medicinal
agent is at times both advisable and necessary. lie
asserts that to control the medical practice in the States
is beyond the power of the Federal Government. Of
course his belief in the medicinal value of such liquor
is not of controlling significance; it merely places him
in what was shown to Congress to be the minor fraction
of his profession. Besides, there is no right to practice
medicine which is not subordinate to the police power
of the States, Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114; Collins v. Texas, 223 U. S. 288; Crane v. Johnson, 242 U. S.
339; Graves v. Minnesota, ante, page 425, and also to
the power of Congress to make laws necessary and proper
for carrying into execution the Eighteenth Amendment.
When the United States exerts any of the powers conferred upon it by the Constitution, no valid objection
can be based upon the fact that such exercise may be
attended by some or all of the incidents which attend
the exercise by a State of its police power. Hamilton v.
Kentucky Distilleries & Warehouse Co., 251 U. S. 146,
156; Jacob Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264, 300. The
Eighteenth Amendment confers upon the Federal Government the power to prohibit the sale of intoxicating
liquor for beverage purposes. Under it, as under the
"necessary and proper" clause of Article I, § 8 of the Constitution, Congress has power to enforce prohibition "by

LAMBERT v. YELLOWLEY.
581

Sutherland, McReynolds, Butler, and Stone, JJ., dissenting.

appropriate legislation." High medical authority being
in conflict as to the medicinal value of spirituous and
vinous liquors taken as a beverage, it would, indeed, be
strange if Congress lacked the power to determine that
the necessities of the liquor problem require a limitation
of permissible prescriptions, as by keeping the quantity
that may be prescribed within limits which will minimize
the temptation to resort to prescriptions as pretexts for
obtaining liquor for beverage uses. Compare Jacobson v.
Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, dissenting.
The general design of the federal Constitution is to
give to the federal government control over national and
international matters, leaving to the several states the
control of local affairs. Prior to the adoption of the
Eighteenth Amendment, accordingly, the direct control
of the manufacture, sale and use of intoxicating liquors
for all purposes was exclusively under the police powers
of the states; and there it still remains, save insofar as
it has been taken away by the words of the Amendment.
These words are perfectly plain and cannot be extended
beyond their import without violating the fundamental
rule that the government of the United States is one of
delegated powers only and that "the powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people." The pertinent words of the
Amendment are: ". . . the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors . . . for beverage purposes is hereby prohibited." Plainly, Congress in submitting the Amendment, and the several states in ratifying it, meant to leave the question of the prohibition
of intoxicating liquors for other than beverage purposes
to the determination of the states, where it had always
been. The limiting words of the Amendment are not sus-

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.

Sutherland, McReynolds, Butler, and Stone, JJ., dissenting. 272 U. S.

ceptible of any other meaning; and to extend them beyond the scope of that meaning really is to substitute
words of another and different import.
It is important also to bear in mind that "direct control of medical practice in the States is beyond the power
of the Federal Government." Linder v. United States,
268 U. S. 5, 18. Congress, therefore, cannot directly restrict the professional judgment of the physician or interfere with its free exercise in the treatment of disease.
Whatever power exists in that respect belongs to the
states exclusively.
The sole question which we are called upon to consider
is whether the district court erred in denying the motion
of the defendants to dismiss plaintiff's bill; and upon that
question, of course, we are bound to accept as true all allegations of the bill which are well pleaded.
The suit was brought by a physician of distinction and,
as the court below said, "of wide and unusual experience
in the practice of medicine." He alleges that it is his
opinion, based on experience, observation and medical
study, that the use of spirituous liquors as medicine is, in
certain cases, necessary in order to afford relief from
known ailments; and that in the use of such liquors as
medicine it is, in certain cases, including some now under
his own observation and subject to his professional ad-vice, necessary, in order to afford relief, that more than
one pint of such liquor in ten days should be used internally and, in certain cases, necessary that it should be
used without delay, notwithstanding that within a preceding period of less than ten days one pint of such liquor
has already been used. He further alleges that in prescribing drugs and medicines the determination of the
quantity involves a consideration of the physical condition
of the patient and their probable effect in each specific
case.
In addition to these allegations, we have the fact that
Congress, acting upon a report of one of its committees

LAMBERT v. YELLOWLEY.
581

Sutherland, McReynolds, Butler, and Stone, JJ., dissenting.

made after exhaustive hearings, declared by statute that
the prescription of malt liquors should be prohibited and
the prescription of spirituous and vinous liquors should
be permitted. Justifying such legislation, the committee
had reported that the overwhelming evidence was to the
effect that malt liquors [not also spirituous and vinous
liquors] had no substantial medicinal value. It is now
said by the majority, at one point, that the preponderating opinion of practicing physicians is against the use of
all three and, at another point, that only a minor fraction hold the other view. I am quite unable to assent to
these generalizations. On the contrary, the impossibility
of determining, from anything now before this court, what
is the preponderating opinion upon the subject, is very
clear. An examination of the hearings before the House
Judiciary Comnittee, cited as authority for the foregoing statements, shows that the inquiry there was directed
to the question of the medical value of malt liquors
and that the question of the medical value of the other
liquors was not under consideration. The hearings contain a few casual references to the other liquors; but I
feel justified in saying that they reflect no light upon the
state of medical opinion as to the value of such liquors
as medicines. It is stated in the brief for the appellees
that a questionnaire, sent out to one-third of the physicians of the United States, brought a reply from enough
to make 21.5 per cent. of the whole number of physicians
in the country, and that a little more than one-half of
those replying voted "Yes" on the use of whiskey as
a therapeutic agency, some of them, however, taking exception to the word "necessary," saying that no drugs
were absolutely necessary. The American Medical Association, whose resolution of 1917 is referred to, have
filed in this case a brief as amicus curiae, challenging the
conclusion which is drawn from that resolution and vigor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Sutherland, McReynolds, Butler, and Stone, JJ., dissenting.

272 U. S.

ously attacking the Act now under review as arbitrary
and unreasonable. In 1924 the House of Delegates of the
Association adopted a resolution expressing its disapproval of those portions of the Act "which interfere with
the proper relation between the physician and his patient
in prescribing alcohol medicinally." It seems plain, therefore, that the most that can be said is that the question
is of a highly controversial character; and, since it reasonably cannot be doubted that it is a fairly debatable one,
the legislative finding, necessarily implicit in the Act, that
vinous and spirituous liquors are of medicinal value, must
be accepted here. Radice v. New York, 264 U. S. 292,
294; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis, 240 U. S. 342, 357;
Price v. Illinois, 238 U. S. 446, 452.
The majority opinion rests chiefly upon Everard's
Breweries v. Day, 265 U. S. 545, which, it is said, was
decided by a unanimous court and, if adhered to, disposes
of the present case. While, of course, in the light of the
present ruling, I cannot say that, if the court had entertained that view of the scope of its decision at the time of
its rendition, it would not have been rendered; I do say
it is very certain that it would not have been by a unanimous court. In the opinion in that case there is some
general discussion of the power of Congress in respect of
the adoption of appropriate means to enforce the
Eighteenth Amendmenf, but the decision rests upon the
ground that Congress, upon conflicting evidence, had
determined that malt liquors possessed no substantial
medicinal value and judicial inquiry upon that question
was, therefore, foreclosed. In direct response to the contention that the Act was an "arbitrary and unreasonable
prohibition of the use of valuable medicinal agents," it
was said (pp. 561-562):
"When the bill was pending in Congress the Judiciary
Committee of the House of Representatives held an extended public hearing, in which it received testimony,

LAMBERT v. YELLOWLEY.
581

Sutherland, McReynolds, Butler, and Stone, JJ., dissenting.

among other things, on the question whether beer and
other intoxicating malt liquors possessed any substantial
medicinal properties. Hearings before House Judiciary
Committee on H. R. 5033, Serial 2, May 12, 13, 16, 17, 20,
1921. On the information thus received the Committee
recommended the passage of the bill. H. R., 67th Cong.,
1st sess., Rep. No. 224. And in the light of all the testimony Congress determined, in effect, that intoxicating
malt liquors possessed no substantial and essential medicinal properties which made it necessary that their use
for medicinal purposes should be permitted, and that, as a
matter affecting the public health, it was sufficient to
permit physicians to prescribe spirituous and vinous intoxicating liquors in addition to the non-intoxicating malt
liquors whose manufacture and sale is 'permitted under
the National Prohibition Act."
And finally (p. 563):
"We find, on the whole, no ground for disturbing the
determination of Congress on the question of fact as to
the reasonable necessity, in the enforcement of the
Eighteenth Amendment, of prohibiting prescriptions of
intoxicating malt liquors for medicinal purposes. See
Radice v. New York, 264 U. S. 292."
And so here, the legislative finding, implicit in the
statute now under review, to the contrary effect, in respect
of spirituous and vinous liquors, likewise should be
accepted as controlling, and the Everard's Breweries case
rejected as inapplicable.
As the record now stands, therefore, we must begin this
inquiry with the assumption that vinous and spirituous
liquors are in fact valuable medicines; and it necessarily
follows that, at least as an end as distinguished from a
means to an end, the prescription of such liquors in good
faith for medicinal use cannot be prohibited by Congress,
since that body lawfully cannot legislate beyond the
grants of the Constitution. The report of the committee

1602

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.

Sutherland, MeReynolds, Butler, and Stone, JJ., dissenting.

272 U. S.

and the hearings will be searched in vain to find any suggestion that the quantity designated by the statute is
adequate or that the committee or Congress gave any
consideration to that question. The only fact in this
record bearing upon that subject is the allegation, under
oath, of appellant that in his professional opinion, based
on experience, observation and medical study, more than
that quantity, in certain cases, including some under his
own observation and advice, is necessary. And, certainly,
there is no basis for asserting the contrary in any fact or
circumstance to be found outside the record of which this
Court can take judicial notice.
The naked question, then, simply comes to this: Conceding these liquors to be valuable medicines, has Congress power, under the constitutional provision prohibiting traffic in intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes, to
limit their prescription in good faith, and consequently
their necessary use, for medicinal purposes, to a quantity
which, under the allegations taken as true, is inadequate
for such purposes? To me the answer seems plain. If
Congress cannot altogether prohibit the prescription for
medicinal use, it cannot limit the prescription to an inadequate quantity, for, obviously, in that case, to the extent
of the inadequacy,the prohibition is as complete, and the
usurpation of power as clear, as though the prohibition
were unqualified. If the power exists to limit the quantity to a pint in ten days, it exists to limit the quantity to
a tablespoonful or a teaspoonful or a few drops during the
same or any other arbitrary period of time, with the result
in substance and effect that the definite limitation of the
prohibitory power by the words " for beverage purposes
vanishes altogether.
It is said that high medical authority is in conflict as to
the medicinal value of spirituous and vinous liquors and
[hence] it would be strange if Congress lacked power to
determine that the necessities of the liquor problem re-

LAMBERT v. YELLOWLEY.
581 Sutherland, McReynolds, Butler, and Stone, JJ., dissenting.

quire a reasonable limitation of the permissible prescriptions. This observation does more than beg the question,-it indulges an assumption the exact contrary of
that which the record conclusively establishes, for the
limitation of quantity is not only unsupported by any
legislative finding that it is reasonable, but it is in flat
opposition to the only facts appearing in the record
which bear upon the question of what is a permissible prescription, and, therefore, is without rational basis, resting
alone upon the arbitrarily exercised will of Congress. I
do not see how it can be held otherwise without completely ignoring the case as made and constructing and
considering another and different case.
Nor is the opinion of the majority aided by the long list
of state enactments cited to demonstrate that the present
statute is not arbitrary, for, since the control of the medical practice is outside the province of the federal government and wholly within that of the states, Linder v.
United States, supra, the powers of Congress in that field
are not to be assimilated to those of the states.
By the legislation now under review, the authority of
Congress is so exercised that the reserved power of the
states to control the practice of medicine is directly invaded, to the illegitimate end that the prescription and
use of liquors for medicinal purposes is prohibited. It is
true that Congress has wide discretion in the choice of
means to carry the granted power into effect; but the
means not only must be appropriate to the end but
must be such as "are not prohibited, but consist with
the letter and spirit of the Constitution." McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421. A grant of power to prohibit for specified purposes does not include the power to
prohibit for other and different purposes. Congressional
legislation directly prohibiting intoxicating liquor for concededly medical purposes, therefore, does not consist with
the letter and spirit of the Constitution, and viewed as a

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Sutherland, McReynolds, Butler, and Stone, JJ., dissenting. 272 U. S.

means of carrying into effect the granted power is in
fraud of that instrument, and especially of the Tenth
Amendment. The words of Mr. Madison (Writings of
James Madison, vol. 6, p. 367) are pertinent: "Nor can
it ever be granted that a power to act on a case when it
actually occurs, includes a power over all the means that
may tend to prevent the occurrence of the case. Such a
latitude of construction would render unavailing every
practical definition of particular and limited powers."
The effect of upholding the legislation is to deprive the
states of the exclusive power, which the Eighteenth
Amendnent has not destroyed, of controlling medical
practice and transfer it in part to Congress. See Hammer
v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251, 275-276. It goes further,
for if Congress can prohibit the prescription of liquor for
necessary medical purposes as a means of preventing the
furnishing of it for beverage purposes, that body, by a
parity of reasoning, may prohibit the manufacture and
sale for industrial or sacramental purposes, or, indeed, as
the most effective possible means of preventing the traffic
in it for beverage purposes, may prohibit such manufacture and sale altogether, with the result that, under
the pretense of adopting appropriate means, a carefully
and definitely limited power will have been expanded into
a general and unlimited power. "The purposes intended
must be attained consistently with constitutional limitations and not by an invasion of the powers of the States.
This court has no more important function than that
which devolves upon it the obligation to preserve inviolate the constitutional limitations upon the exercise of
authority, federal and state, to the end that each may continue to discharge, harmoniously with the other, the
duties entrusted to it by the'Constitution." Hammer v.
Dagenhart,supra, p. 276.
I do not doubt the authority of Congress to regulate
the disposal of intoxicating liquors for medicinal use so
as to prevent evasions of the law against the traffic in such

NAPIER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
581

Syllabus.

liquors for beverage purposes, and to that end to surround
the prescription by the physician with every appropriate
safeguard against fraud and imposition; but as this record now stands it cannot prohibit the legitimate prescription of spirituous and vinous liquors for medicine as this
statute attempts to do. " Federal power is delegated, and
its prescribed limits must not be transcended even though
the end seem desirable." Linder v. United States, supra,
p. 22. Because this statute by fixing inadequate prescriptions prohibits to the extent of such inadequacies the
legitimate prescription of spirituous and vinous liquors for
medicinal purposes, it exceeds the powers of Congress, invades those exclusively reserved to the states, and is not
appropriate legislation to enforce the Eighteenth Amendment. The decree below should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

MR. JUSTICE STONE

and

concur in this opinon.

NAPIER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. RAILROAD COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN.
CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. RAILROAD COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.

Nos. 87, 310, 311.

Argued October 20, 21, 1926.-Decided November
29, 1926.

The Boiler Inspection Act, as amended, has so occupied the field of
regulating locomotive equipment on interstate highways, that state
legislation requiring cab curtains and automatic firebox doors, is

