NAPIER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
581

Syllabus.

liquors for beverage purposes, and to that end to surround
the prescription by the physician with every appropriate
safeguard against fraud and imposition; but as this record now stands it cannot prohibit the legitimate prescription of spirituous and vinous liquors for medicine as this
statute attempts to do. " Federal power is delegated, and
its prescribed limits must not be transcended even though
the end seem desirable." Linder v. United States, supra,
p. 22. Because this statute by fixing inadequate prescriptions prohibits to the extent of such inadequacies the
legitimate prescription of spirituous and vinous liquors for
medicinal purposes, it exceeds the powers of Congress, invades those exclusively reserved to the states, and is not
appropriate legislation to enforce the Eighteenth Amendment. The decree below should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

MR. JUSTICE STONE

and

concur in this opinon.

NAPIER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. RAILROAD COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN.
CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. RAILROAD COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.

Nos. 87, 310, 311.

Argued October 20, 21, 1926.-Decided November
29, 1926.

The Boiler Inspection Act, as amended, has so occupied the field of
regulating locomotive equipment on interstate highways, that state
legislation requiring cab curtains and automatic firebox doors, is

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

precluded and such matters are left to the regulatory power reposed
by the Act in the Interstate Commerce Commission. P. 60S.
2 F. (2d) 891, affirmed.
188 Wis. 232, reversed.

No. 87. APPEAL from a decree of the District Court
(December 1024) enjoining the Attorney General of
Georgia from enforcing a state law requiring the complaining carrier to equip the fireboxes of its locomotives
with automatic doors.
Nos. 310, 311. ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin, which affirmed judgments dismissing
suits to set aside an order of the State Railroad Commission, based on statute, prescribing cab curtains.
Mr. Thomas Stevenson, with whom Messrs. George
M. Napier, Attorney General of Georgia, and Oscar J.
Horn were on the brief, for appellant in No. 87.
Mr. Nye F. Morehouse, with whom Messrs. R. N. Van
Doren, H. H. Field, and C. S. Jefferson were on the brief,
for plaintiffs in error in Nos. 310 and 311.
Mr. Robert C. Alston, with whom Messrs. Blair Foster
and Robert S. Parker were on the brief, for appellee in
No. 87.
Mr. Robert M. Rieser, with whom Mr. Hermanr L.
Ekem, Attorney General of Wisconsin, was on the brief,
for defendant in error in Nos. 310 and 311.
Messrs. Andrew B. Dougherty, Attorney General of
Michigan, and Fred L. Warner, Assistant Attorney General, filed a brief, as amici curiae by special leave of
Court, on behalf of the State of Michigan.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases require a determination of the scope and
effect of the federal Locomotive Boiler Inspection Act.

NAPIER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
605

Opinion of the Court.

February 17, 1911, c. 103, 36 Stat. 913, as amended March
4, 1915, c. 169, 38 Stat. 1192, and June 7, 1924, c. 355,
43 Stat. 659. The main question, which is the same in
the three cases, is one of statutory construction. It is
whether the Boiler Inspection Act has occupied the field
of regulating locomotive equipment used on a highway
of interstate commerce, so as to preclude state legislation. Congress obviously has power to do so. Compare
Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Washington, 222 U. S. 370;
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Public Service Commission,
250 U. S. 566; Oregon-Washington R. R. & Nay. Co. v.
Washington, 270 U. S. 87.
No. 87 involves a Georgia statute which prescribes an
automatic door to the firebox, Act of August 13, 1924,
Georgia Laws, 1924, p. 173. That case is here on direct
appeal from a final decree of the federal district court,
entered December 23, 1924, granting the injunction. 2
Fed. (2d) 891. Nos. 310 and 311 involve a Wisconsin
statute which prescribes a cab curtain, Wisconsin Statutes,
ยง 1806a, c. 139, Laws of 1923. These cases are here on
writs of error to the Supreme Court of that State, which
affirmed a judgment denying the injunction. 188 Wis.
232. In Georgia, the details of the device were prescribed
by the legislature. In Wisconsin, the specifications were
prescribed by an order of the state Railroad Commission.
In each case, an interstate carrier sought to enjoin state
officials from enforcing, in respect to locomotives used on
its lines, a state law which prohibits use within the State
of locomotives not equipped with the device prescribed.
Some of the engines were being operated entirely within
the State, some across the state line to and from adjoining
States. It is conceded that the federal Safety Appliance
and Boiler Inspection Acts apply to a locomotive used on
a highway of interstate commerce, even if it is operated
wholly within one State and is not engaged in hauling
interstate freight or passengers. Southern Ry. Co. v.

608

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

United States, 222 U. S. 20; Texas & Pacific Ry. v.
Rigsby, 241 U. S. 33.
Prior to the passage of the Boiler Inspection Act, Congress had, by the Safety Appliance Act and several amendments, itself made requirements concerning the equipment of locomotives used in interstate commerce. It had
required a power driving-wheel brake, automatic couplers.
grabirons or handholds, drawbars, safety ash pans, and
sill steps. Acts of March 2, 1893, c. 196, 27 Stat. 531;
March 2, 1903, c. 976, 32 Stat. 943; May 30, 1908, c. 225,
35 Stat. 476; April 14, 1910, c. 160, 36 Stat. 298. Congress first conferred upon the Interstate Commerce Commission power in respect to locomotive equipment in 1911.
The original Act applied only to the boiler. It is entitled:
"An Act to promote the safety of employees and travelers
upon railroads by compelling common carriers engaged
in interstate commerce to equip their locomotives with
safe and suitable boilers and appurtenances thereto."
The provisions of that Act were extended in 1915 to "include the entire locomotive and tender and all parts and
appurtenances thereof." In 1924, ยง 2 of the original
Act was amended to read as follows:
"That it shall be unlawful for any carrier to use or
permit to be used on its line any locomotive unless said
locomotive, its boiler, tender, and all parts and appurtenances thereof are in proper condition and safe to operate in the service to which the same are put, that the
same may be employed in the active service of such carrier
without unnecessary peril to life or limb, and unless said
locomotive, its boiler, tender and all parts and appurtenances thereof have been inspected from time to time
in accordance with the provisions of this Act and are
able to withstand such test or tests as may be prescribed
in the rules and regulations hereinafter provided for."
Other sections confer upon Inspectors and the Commission power to prescribe requirements and establish rules

NAPIER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
Opinion of the Court.

605

to secure compliance with the provisions of ยง 2. From
time to time since the passage of the original Act, the
Commission has required that locomotives used in interstate commerce be equipped with various devices.' But
it has made no order requiring either a particular type of
fire-box door or a cab curtain. Nor has Congress legislated
specifically in respect to either device.
The Georgia Act provides that the "automatic door
shall be so constructed and operated by steam, compressed
air or electricity, as deemed best and most efficient by
officers of such railroad. The device for operating such
door shall be so constructed that it may be operated by
the fireman of said engine by means of a push-button
or other appliance located on the floor of the engine
deck or floor of the tender . . . to enable the fireman
while firing such engine by pressure with his feet to operate such door for firing of such engine." The automatic
fire-dqor conserves the health of the fireman by protecting him from exposures to extremes of heat and cold
while performing his duties; conserves his eyesight by
reducing the amount and extent of exposure to the glare
of the fire; protects the safety of the employees in the
event of an explosion in the fire-box; and incidentally
might affect the safety of the train, after such an explosion, in that employees, being safe, might be able to
bring the train under control. The automatic fire-door
would also serve to protect travellers upon highways
'Steam gauge (Rule 28); safety valves (Rule 34); water glass
and gauge cocks (Rule 37); shutoff and drain cocks (Rule 38);
shields on water and lubricator glasses (Rule 41); lamps in connection with water glasses (Rule 42); particular types of ash pans (Rule
105); "clear vision" windows in cabs (Rule 116); cylinder cocks
(Rule 119); sanding apparatus (Rule 120); whistle (Rule 121);
safety bars or chains (Rule 122b); chafing irons (Rule 123); headlights with designated intensity and devices (Rules 129, 131); classification lamps (Rule 130); cab lights (Rule 132); safety valve for
oil supply pipe (Rule 154).
;:34'1P, -27-:9

610

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

crossed by the railroad at grade. For the fireman is
required to aid the engineer in keeping a lookout; and
with use of the old type swinging door this is not continuously possible. The glare of the flame when the
door is open practically blinds the fireman for a time.
The purpose of the cab curtain is to protect engineers
and firemen from the weather during the winter season.
The Act made it unlawful to use "between the fifteenth
day of November and the first day of April of each year
any locomotive engine not equipped with suitable and
approved cab curtains. Such curtains shall be so constructed as to efficiently enclose the openings between the
engine cab and the water tank or coal tender attached
to such locomotive engine. The windows of the cab shall
be properly and closely fitted and all openings for levers
or pipes and all other openings whatsoever through which
cold or drafts may bring discomfort to the occupants, shall
be efficiently protected in such manner as may be required
and according to plans approved by the Railroad Commission." Various types of cab curtains had been voluntarily installed by the carriers. But those installed
by most of the carriers were such that snow entered
the cabs in large quantities; that it saturated the clothing
of engineers and firemen; and that the exposure caused
great discomfort and danger of serious illness. The State
Commission found that the plans for cab curtains submitted by the several carriers were, with one exception,
not "fully suitable and effective for the protection of
the health, comfort and welfare of the engine men "; and
ordered particular requirements.
Each device was prescribed by the State primarily to
promote the health and comfort of engineers and firemen.
Each state requirement may be assumed to be a proper
exercise of its police power, unless the measure violates
the Commerce Clause. It may be assumed, also, that
there is no physical conflict between the devices required

NAPIER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE.
605

Opinion of the Court.

by the State and those specifically prescribed by Congress
or the Interstate Commerce Commission;2 and that the
interference with commerce resulting from the state legislation would be incidental only. The intention of Congress to exclude States from exerting their police power
must be clearly manifested, Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S.
137, 148; Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 533. Does the
legislation of Congress manifest the intention to occupy
the entire field of regulating locomotive equipment?
Obviously it did not do so by the Safety Appliance Act,
since its requirements are specific. It did not do so by
the original Boiler Inspection Act, since its provisions
were limited to the boiler. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co.
v. Georgia, 234 U. S. 280. But the power delegated to the
Commission by the Boiler Inspection Act as amended is
a general one. It extends to the design, the construction
and the material of every part of the locomotive and
tender and of all appurtenances.
The requirements here in question are, in their nature,
within the scope of the authority delegated to the Commission. An automatic firedoor and an effective cab curtain may promote safety. Keeping firemen and engineers
in good health, like preventing excessive fatigue through
limiting the hours of service, clearly does so, although
indirectly; and it may be found that to promote their
comfort would likewise promote safety. It is argued that
the authority delegated to the Commission does not extend to ordering the use or installation of equipment of
any kind, Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Groeger, 266
U. S. 521; and that Congress has definitely reserved that
power to itself, Interstate Commerce Commission v. Cinis contended by the carriers that the order of the Wisconsin
Commission is, in some minor respects, inconsistent with requirements
prescribed, in other connections, by the Interstate Commerce Commission. For reasons to be stated, we have no occasion to examine
into the alleged conflict.
2 It

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

cinnati,New Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry. Co., 167 U. S.
479; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Georgia, 234 U. S.
280; United States v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 242 U. S.
208. The question whether the Boiler Inspection Act
confers upon the Interstate Commerce Commission power
to specify the sort of equipment to be used on locomotives
was left open in VandaliaR. R. Co. v. Public Service Commission, 242 U. S. 255. We think that power was conferred. The duty of the Commission is not merely to
inspect. It is, also, to prescribe the rules and regulations
by which fitness for service shall be determined. Unless
these rules and regulations are complied with, the engine
is not "in proper condition" for operation. Thus the
Commission sets the standard. By setting the standard
it imposes requirements. The power to require specific
devices was exercised before the amendment of 1915, and
has been extensively exercised since.
The argument mainly urged by the States in support
of the claim that Congress has not occupied the entire
field, is that the federal and the state laws are aimed at
distinct and different evils; that the federal regulation
endeavors solely to prevent accidental injury in the operation of trains, whereas the state regulation endeavors to
prevent sickness and disease due to excessive and unnecessary exposure; and that whether Congress has entered a
field must be determined by the object sought through
the legislation, rather than the physical elements affected
by it. Did Congress intend that there might still be state
regulation of locomotives, if the measure was directed
primarily to the promotion of health and comfort and
affected safety, if at all, only incidentally?
. The federal and the state statutes are directed to the
same subject-the equipment of locomotives. They
operate upon the same object. It is suggested that the
power delegated to the Commission has been exerted only
in respect to minor changes or additions. But this, if true,

DUFFY v. MUTUAL BENEFIT CO.
(;05

Syllabus.

is not of legal significance. It is also urged that, even if
the Conunission has power to prescribe an automatic firebox door and a cab curtain, it has not done so; and that
it has made no other requirement inconsistent with the
state legislation. This, also, if true, is without legal
significance. The fact that the Commission has not seen
fit to exercise its authority to the full extent conferred,

has no bearing upon the construction of the Act delegating
the power. We hold that state legislation is precluded,
because the Boiler Inspection Act, as we construe it, was
intended to occupy the field. The broad scope of the
authority conferred upon the Commission leads to that
conclusion. Because the standard set by the Commission
must prevail, requirements by the States are precluded,
however commendable or however different their purpose.
Compare Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. State, 16 Ala.
App. 199; Whish v. Public Service Commission, 205 App.
Div. 756; 240 N. Y. 677; Staten Island Rapid Transit Co.
v. Public Service Commission, 16 Fed. (2d) 313.
If the protection now afforded by the Commission's
rules is deemed inadequate, application for relief must be
made to it. The Commission's power is ample. Obviously, the rules to be prescribed for this purpose need
not be uniform throughout the United States; or at all
seasons; or for all classes of service.
It No.87, decree affirmed.
In Nos. 310 and 311, judgment reversed.
DUFFY, FORMER COLLECTOR, v. MUTUAL
BENEFIT LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 108.

Argued October 21, 22, 1926.--Decided November 29, 1926.

1. The legal reserve of a mutual life insurance company, consisting
of premiums paid by the members, and earnings upon premiums
invested, is "invested capital," within the war excess profits tax

