564

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
272 U.S.

Counsel for Parties.

the Commission instituted a proceeding. Support for this
conclusion may be found in § 11, which provides for action
by the Commission whenever it "shall have reason to
believe that any person is violating or has violated any
of the provisions" of the earlier sections. (Italics ours.)
I think that the decrees in Nos. 213 and 231 should be
affirmed.

The

CHIEF

JUSTICE, MR. JusTicE

HOLMES

and MR.

JUsTIcE STONE join in this dissent.
PORT

GARDNER INVESTMENT
UNITED STATES.

COMPANY

v.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 173. Argued December 9, 1925; reargued October 19, 20, 192.Decided November 23, 1926.
The prosecution with effect, under § 26, Title II, of the National
Prohibition Act, of the driver of an automobile, for illegal possession and transportation of liquor therein, makes it mandatory to
dispose of the vehicle as prescribed by that section, and precludes
resort to forfeiture proceedings under Rev. Stats. § 3450. P. 566.

Response to question certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals upon a review by writ of error of a judgment of
the District Court forfeiting an automobile under Rev.
Stats. § 3450.
Mr. Duane R. Dills, with whom Messrs. Loren Grinstead, William T. Laube, James A. Laughlin, and Thomas
E. Davis were on the brief, for the Port Gardner Investment Company.
Assistant Attorney General Willebrandt for the United
States, in the original argument. Solicitor General
Mitchell for the United States on the reargument. Mr.
Mahlon D. Kiefer, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was also on the brief.

PORT GARDNER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
164

565

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a proceeding, commenced in the federal court
for western Washington, Northern Division, under Revised Statutes of the United States, § 3450, to forfeit an
automobile on the ground that it was being used with
intent to defraud the United States of the tax on distilled
spirits found therein.

The use alleged was in removal

and for the deposit and concealment. The claimant intervened in the district court, asserted title to the automobile and denied knowledge or notice, prior to the seizure, that the automobile was being used or was to be used
in any illegal manner. The case comes here on certificate
from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit,
that court having heard the case on writ of error to the
district court, which had entered a decree of forfeiture.
Six questions are presented by the certificate. The fifth
is: "Did the prosecution of the driver of the car under
the National Prohibition Act constitute an election by the
government to proceed under § 26 of that Act and thereby
prevent the forfeiture of the car under § 3450 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States?"
The facts are these. Neadeau, the driver of the automobile seized by prohibition agents, had been charged
with possession and transportation of intoxicating liquor
in violation of the National Prohibtion Act. He pleaded guilty to both charges and was sentenced to pay a
fine. The claimant insisted that this proceeding under
§ 3450 would not lie. In addition to the objections considered in United States v. One Ford Coup6 Automobile,
ante, p. 321, the claimant contended that the Government
should not prevail, because the plea of guilt followed by
the sentence constitutes a prior conviction under § 5 of
the Willis-Campbell Act, which provides that "if any
act is a violation of" any tax law concerning intoxicating

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

liquors" and also of the National Prohibition law, or the
supplement thereto, "a conviction for such act or offence
under one shall be a bar to prosecution therefor under
the other." The argument is that under § 26 no separate
action is taken to forfeit the vehicle; that forfeiture is
an incident of the conviction of the person which operates
as a forfeiture also of the vehicle taken possession of, subject only to the right of the innocent third party to establish his lien or other interest; and that the order of sale
is merely a step in the execution of the judgment of conviction and forfeiture. It is argued further that the
term "act," as used in § 5, means transaction; and that
for this reason, independently of the doctrine of election,
a conviction of the person under § 26 will bar the proceeding under § 3450 because, on the facts recited in the
certificate, the proceeding to forfeit under § 3450 rests
upon the same transaction for which Neadeau was
sentenced. Whether the principle embodied in this contention is sound we need not determine. For there is
another ground on which the conviction of Neadeau under
§ 26 bars a proceeding to forfeit under § 3450.
The disposition of the automobile prescribed in § 26
became mandatory after Neadeau's conviction; and being
inconsistent with the disposition under § 3450 necessarily
precluded resort to proceedings under the latter section.
Construing the fifth question as referring to the prosecution with effect, we answer the question in the affirmative.
We need not determine whether the mere commencement of a proceeding under § 26 constitutes an election.
Nor need we give specific answers to the other questions
asked, since the certificate does not disclose any reason
why the sale of the automobile, subject to the interests
of innocent parties, should not have been ordered by the
District Court after the conviction of Neadeau.
Yes, to Question 5.

WACHOVIA TRUST CO. v. DOUGHTON.
564

567

Syllabus.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER,

concurring.

I agree that the answer to question 5 should be in the
affirmative.
In the opinion it is said, "Construing the fifth question as referring to the prosecution with effect, we answer
the question in the affirmative." This means prosecution
and conviction of the driver constitute an election to proceed against the vehicle under § 26 and prevents forfeiture under § 3450. The answer is enough to guide
the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case. But it leaves
open the question which is not decided in United
States v. Ford Coupe, ante, p. 321. The substance
of that question is whether the prohibition officer discovering one in the act of transportation may
disregard the plain and direct commands of § 26 to proceed against the vehicle as there directed. I think he has
no more right to ignore that command than he has to let
the liquor and offender go. The law makes the election.
I regret that this Court's answer is so qualified and
restricted. Section 26 is not so restrained.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE STONE concurs in this opinion.
WACHOVIA BANK & TRUST COMPANY, ADMINISTRATOR, Er AL. v. DOUGHTON, COMMISSIONER OF REVENUE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 49.

Argued May 6, 1926.-Decided November 29, 1926.

1. A State may not subject to taxation things wholly beyond her
control. P. 575.
2. The exercise of a power of appointment through a will made in
North Carolina by a resident of that State, held not taxable there,

