620

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

To hold the contrary would be to so limit the application of subdivisions (1) and (2) of § 207 (a) as altogether to exclude therefrom those corporations which
have no capital stock. We cannot suppose that Congress
intended such a result; but must conclude that it used the
word "stock" as appropriate in the case of stock corporaions and the word "shares" as appropriate in the case
of partnerships and non-stock corporations. Such an interpretation does no violence to the ordinary meaning of
the word, for while it is entirely proper to speak of
"stock" as "shares" it is equally proper to designate the
several interests in a common fund as "shares." To the
extent of $70,000,000 the legal reserve consisted of "actual cash paid in" by the members. These payments
were intended for investment, and were invested, to increase the resources of the company and thereby reduce
the cost of the insurance; and it requires no stretch of the
realities to say that, within the meaning of subdivisions
(1) and (2), § 207 (a), the fund which they created is
invested capital. This is enough to relieve the company
from the payment of any war excess profits tax, and it is
unnecessary to inquire whether the remaining $116,000,000
is to be regarded as earned surplus under subdivision (3).
Judgment affirmed.
FASULO v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 251.

Argued October 13, 14, 1926.-Decided November 29, 1926.

A scheme for obtaining money, by means of intimidation through
threats of murder and bodily harm, is not a "scheme to defraud,"
within the meaning of Crim. Code § 215, (Rev. Stats. § 54S0,)
punishing the use of the mails for the purpose of executing any
"scheme or artifice to defraud," etc. P. 625.
7 F. (2d) 961, reversed.

FASULO v. UNITED STATES.
620

Argument for Petitioner.

CERTIORARI (269 U. S. 551) to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of the District Court sentencing Fasulo and others upon their conviction of a conspiracy to violate § 215 of the Criminal
Code.

Mr. John O'Gara,with whom Mr. Benjamin L. McKinley was on the brief, for petitioner.
Naponiello v. United States, 291 Fed. 1008, should be
followed rather than Horman v. United States, 116 Fed.
350; because by § 215 of the Criminal Code the statute
has been vitally changed since the decision in the Horman
case, by adding the words, "or for obtaining money or
property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses,
representations or promises."
The genesis of § 215 of the Criminal Code and of § 5480
of the Rev. Stats., shows that they were intended to cover
schemes to obtain money or other property by deception
merely, and not to cover schemes to extort by threats of
violence, real or pretended. See and cf. Act of June 8,
1872, c. 35, 17 Stat. 283, §§ 149, 300, 301; 17 Stat. c. 335,
p. 283, which became §§ 3894, 4041, and 5480, Rev. Stats.
The Act of June 8, 1872, was in large part an adoption
by Congress of the work of a Commission appointed "to
revise, simplify and consolidate the laws of the United
States." Act of June 27, 1866, c. 140, 14 Stat. 74. The
Commission published in 1869 a so-called Postal Code.
The Postmaster General appointed a committee of post
office officials "to examine and report" upon said Postal
Code. On March 30, 1870, this committee submitted
their report, of which a copy is now on file in the Congressional Library.
No statute has been found which punished a real threat
and at the same time excused a pretended threat; but on
the other hand, no statute has been found which made it
criminal to make a pretended threat and treated a real
threat as constituting no offense. It is certain that Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Petitioner.

272 U. S.

gress did not mean to punish real threats in enacting
§§ 149, 300, and 301 of the Act of June 8, 1872; it is inconceivable that Congress meant by them to punish pretended
threats. Congress evidently meant to punish wrongs in
which deception was of the very essence, not wrongs such
as pretended threats in which deception was an unimportant and insignificant circumstance merely. It would
seem that this construction of the law agrees exactly with
the interpretation given to § 5480 in Durland v. United
States, 161 U. S. 306. It was evidently for the purpose
of avoiding misconstruction and of restoring the law
actually, but also apparently, to its original condition as
intended by the Act of June 8, 1872, that the revising
Commission, in drafting § 215 of the Criminal Code, inserted after the words " scheme or artifice to defraud," the
very words (adding only, "or property," and leaving out,
"through the mails "), which occur in § 300 of the Act of
June 8, 1872, namely, "for obtaining money or property
by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations
or promises."
Extortion of the species and character here involved is
essentially and characteristically a crime of violence, and
is put by law writers in the same category as highway
robbery. The will of the victim in both offenses is coerced,
by violence, or by threats which are in reality a form of
violence. Fraud, on the other hand, is essentially and
characteristically the crime of craft. It is by nature sly,
underhand and violence-shunning. The decisions and the
treatises of law writers are replete with expressions which
recognize and imply that fraud is the very opposite of
violence; as for example: "The property was obtained by
fraud, not by force." "Consent was obtained by fraud,
not by violence." One can take up almost any text took
on contracts or on wills and find that duress and fraud are
differentiated. Hammerschmidt v. United States, 265
U. S. 182.

FASULO v. UNITED STATES.
620

Argument for the United States.

The offences are as essentially different as a battery is
from a libelous article. Battery, and libel, and embezzlement and theft injure, but in different ways, and are
different crimes. Viewing extortion and fraud from the
essential difference as to consent, they differ more essentially than theft and embezzlement. In extortion the
victim gives no real consent to parting with his property;
his consent is like that of the victim who turns over his
watch to the highwayman at the point of a pistol. In
fraud, to the very contrary, the victim genuinely and
freely consents to part with his property.
The mails have been used to further schemes to murder
and to commit a multitude of other local crimes. If such
instances of misuse of the mails have not moved Congress
to intrude in state affairs and to legislate against those
offenses, why should it be supposed or presumed that Congress has been aroused and has legislated as to offenses of
the fraud of circumvention which use the mails less and
are every bit as much local crimes?
It is quite another matter respecting schemes which
almost necessarily employ the public agency of the mails
to reach and victimize the credulous and unsuspecting,
beyond the confines of the State of the culprits. The
States are unable adequately to cope with them. United
States v. Clark, 121 Fed. 190.
Contemporary construction shows most satisfactorily
what was the mischief in the mind of Congress when it
enacted these sections. United States v. Owens, 17 Fed.
72; United States v. Mitchell, 36 Fed. 492; United States
v. Fay, 83 Fed. 839; United States v. Wallen, 29 Fed. 72.
Cf. Harrisonv. United States, 200 Fed. 662.
Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. William D. Whitney,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the United States.

624

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for the United States.

272 U. S.

The use of the mails for the purpose of securing money
by means of threats constitutes an offense indictable under
§ 215 of the Criminal Code. The statute was intended,
and has been properly construed by the courts, to cover
the evil of obtaining money or property of another by
dishonest means. Weeber v. United States, 62 Fed. 740;
Horman v. United States, 116 Fed. 350. Petitioner suggests that the Horman case is not in point because of the
addition to Rev. Stats. § 5480, made in 1909. The answer
appears to be that this Court has since expressly recognized the authority of the Hornancase. Hamnierschmidt
v. United States, 265 U. S. 182. This makes clear the
opinion of the Court, in accord with the case of Durland
v. United States, 161 U. S. 306, that the word "defraud"
is directed to the case of "wronging one in his property
rights by dishonest methods or schemes." Obviously it
does "not extend to theft by violence," but it does extend
to blackmail. The method of deprivation in the one case
is physical coercion, in the other mental coercion based
on the use of the mails.
It has been more than once recognized that the word
"defraud" in a federal statute carries a broader meaning
than at common law. Durland v. United States, supra;
United States v. Stever, 222 U. S. 167. Having passed
the limits of the common law definition, we find that the
next circle of classification embraces all dishonest methods
of deprivation, "the gist of which " is the use of the mails.
The case of blackmail is no doubt at "the verge," but it is
not without the circle of construction justified by the
intent of Congress and the common meaning of words.
Naponiello v. United States, 291 Fed. 1008, is in conflict
with the weight of authority.
In determining the meaning which Congress intended
should be given to § 215 it is a significant fact that the
phrase used in § 5480 Rev. Stats., "any. scheme or artifice
to defraud," was embodied in § 215 of the Criminal Code.

FASULO v. UNITED STATES.
620

625

Opinion of the Court.

It is further significant that all of the above-cited cases
turned upon the meaning of that phrase in § 5480. Three
of the cases specifically held that the sending of letters
through the mails for the purpose of securing a pecuniary
advantage by means of threats fell within the meaning of
the words "any scheme or artifice to defraud." It was in
the light of these decisions that § 215 was adopted.
The reasoning in the Horman case is sounder than that
in the Naponiello case, and has behind it more of pra~tical
common sense and judgment. Obtaining money by
threats of injury is defrauding according to common understanding. It is incredible that Congress has intended
all these years to prohibit the use of the mails to defraud
by trick or false pretenses but to leave the mails open to
use by blackmailers or extortionists. The statute was
construed in 1902 by the Circuit Court of Appeals in the
Horman case to cover a case of obtaining money by threats
of injury to character or reputation. There is no distinction between that and the case of threat of injury to
person or property. Certiorari was denied by this Court.
For a quarter of a century that decision stood unquestioned. Congress has acquiesced in that construction of
the law. Its failure to pass bills introduced to prohibit
the use of the mails for " blackhand" letters has no doubt
been due to the belief that the subject was covered by
existing statutes as construed by the courts.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The petitioner, indicted with others in the Northern
District of California, was convicted of conspiracy to
violate § 215 of the Criminal Code. 35 Stat. 1088, 1130.
The judgment was affirmed, 7 F. (2d) 961. And see
Lupipparu v. United States, 5 F. (2d) 504.
The question for decision is whether the use of the
mails for the purpose of obtaining money by means of
threats of murder or bodily harm is a scheme to defraud
234t

-27

-.--

0

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

within the meaning of that section. Petitioner contends
that sending threatening letters for that purpose involves
coercion and not fraud. The government insists that in
a broad sense threats constitute fraud, and that the section covers the obtaining of money or property of another by dishonest means. The words of the statute
relied on follow: "Whoever, having devised .

.

. any

scheme or artifice to defraud, or for obtaining money or
property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, . . . shall, for the purpose of
executing such scheme . . . place, or cause to be placed,
any letter . . . in any post-office, . . . to be sent or delivered . . . " shall be punished. Questions somewhat

similar have been considered in the lower courts, but the
issue here presented has never been decided by this
court.
In Weeber v. United States, 62 Fed. 740, the defendant was convicted under the provision here in question,
then a part of § 5480, Revised Statutes. The scheme to
defraud alleged was this: One Kearney pretending to
have a claim against Stephens placed it in defendant's
hands for collection. An action was then pending in the
federal court brought by the United States against
Stephens. Defendant caused to be mailed a letter, purporting to be from the United States attorney to himself,
in reference to furnishing testimony tending to show
Stephens liable to the government, and then caused the
letter to be seen by Stephens, intending that he should
be frightened into paying the false claim in order to prevent disclosures to the United States attorney. The
court held the indictment good and affirmed the conviction. But, in that case, there were involved trickery
and deceit as well as threat. The contention that threats
to injure do not constitute a scheme to defraud does not
appear to have been made; at any rate, it was not discussed in the opinion.

FASULO v. UNITED STATES.
620

Opinion of the Court.

In Horman v. United States, 116 Fed. 350, the Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit affirmed a conviction under § 5480. The defendant and others, pretending to have knowledge of crimes committed by Douglass
and others, threatened to make them public unless given
$7,000. The purpose of the conspiracy was to obtain
money by means akin to, if not technically, blackmail
and extortion. The court construed the section and
said the words "to defraud" were not descriptive
of the character of the artifice or scheme but rather of
the wrongful purpose involved in devising it. And it
held that (p. 352): "If the scheme or artifice in
its necessary consequence is one which is calculated to
injure another, to deprive him of his property wrongfully, then it is to defraud within the meaning of the
statute."
On the basis of these cases the government argues that
the statute embraces all dishonest methods of deprivation the gist of which is the use of the mails.
But in Hammerschmidt v. United States, 265 U. S. 182,
we held that § 37 of the Criminal Code denouncing conspiracy "to defraud the United States in any manner
or for any purpose" did not condemn a conspiracy to
defeat the selective draft by inducing persons to refuse
to register. It is there said that the decision in Hormam
v. United States went to the verge; that since that decision § 5480 had been amended to make its scope clearer;
and that its construction in that case could not be used
as authority to include within the legal definition of a
conspiracy to defraud the United States a mere open
defiance of the governmental purpose to enforce a law.
And in the discussion of the words "to defraud" it is
said that they primarily mean to cheat; that they usually
signify the deprivation of something of value, by trick,
deceit, chicane or overreaching, and that they do not
extend to theft by violence, or to robbery or burglary.

628

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

The reference in the opinion to "means that are dishonest" and "dishonest methods or schemes" does not
support the government's construction of the phrase.
The contrasts there emphasized and the context indicate
the contrary.
And in Naponiello v. United States, 291 Fed. 1008, the
Circuit Court of Appeals of the Seventh Circuit-a few
days after the decision of the Hammerschmidt case but
without reference to it-held that the use of the mails
to send a letter to extort money by threats is not to promote a scheme to defraud within § 215; and said the
words there used show unmistakably that the victim's
money must be taken from him by deceit.
Undoubtedly the obtaining of money by threats to injure or kill is more reprehensible than cheat, trick, or
false pretenses; but that is not enough to require the
court to hold that a scheme based on such threats is one
to defraud within § 215. While, for the ascertainment of
the true meaning and intention of the words relied on,
regard is to be had to the evils that called forth the enactment, and to the rule that a strict construction of penal
statutes does not require the words to be so narrowed as
to exclude cases that fairly may be said to be covered by
them, it is not permissible for the court to search for an
intention that the words themselves do not suggest.
United States v. Wiltberger,5 Wheat. 76, 95.
If threats to kill or injure unless money is forthcoming
do not constitute a scheme to defraud within the statute,
there is none in this case. The only means employed by
petitioner and his co-conspirators to obtain the money
demanded was the coercion of fear. A comprehensive
definition of "scheme or artifice to defraud" need not be
undertaken. The phrase is a broad one and extends to a
great variety of transactions. But broad as are the words
"to defraud," they do not include threat and coercion
through fear or force. The rule laid down in the Horman

FASULO v. UNITED STATES.
620

Opinion of the Court.

case includes every scheme that in its necessary consequences is calculated to injure another or to deprive him
of his property wrongfully. That statement goes beyond
the meaning that justly may be attributed to the language used. The purpose of the conspirators was to compel action in accordance with their demand. The attempt
was by intimidation and not by anything in the nature
of deceit or fraud as known to the law or as generally
understood. The words of the Act suggest no intention to
include the obtaining of money by threats. There are no
constructive offenses; and, before one can be punished, it
must be shown that his case is plainly within the statute.
United States v. Lacher, 134 U. S. 624, 628. In United
States v. Cwse, 135 U. S. 255, the indictment was under
§ 1 of the Act of July 12, 1876, c. 186, 19 Stat. 90, declaring "every . . . book, pamphlet, picture, paper, writing,
print or other publication of an indecent character" to
be unmailable, and making their deposit in the mails an
offense. The question was whether to send an obscene
letter by mail violated that section. The court held that
the letter was not a writing within the meaning of the
statute. It said (p. 261): "We recognize the value of
the rule of construing statutes with reference to the evil
they were designed to suppress as an important aid in
ascertaining the meaning of language in them which is
ambiguous and equally susceptible of conflicting constructions. But this court has repeatedly held that this rule
does not apply to instances which are not embraced in
the language employed in the statute, or implied from a
fair interpretation of its context, even though they may
involve the same mischief which the statute was designed
to suppress."
The threats in question cannot fairly be held to constitute a scheme to defraud.
Judgment reversed.

