SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. UNITED STATES.
429

445

Counsel for Parties.

material element, and having thus narrowed the claims,
cannnot, as was said in the Weber Electric Company
case, now enlarge their scope by a resort to the doctrine
of equivalents. This would render nugatory the specific
limitation.
The decree is accordingly
Affirmed.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 239.

Argued October 6, 1926.-Decided November 22, 1926.

1. Military impedimenta were shipped by the War Department by
expedited service over a railroad which was bound by land-grant
acts to transport property of the United States "at rates not
exceeding 50 per cent. of those paid by private shippers for the
same kind of service." The railroad had no tariff for such service
available to the public at large but had filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission a special tariff for the Government, in such
cases, without land-grant deductions. Held, (1) that no contract
of the United States to pay the special tariff rate could be implied
from the fact that the shipments were made when the special tariff
was the only one applicable on file, in the absence of proof that the
contracting officers then knew of that tariff; (2) that, the special
tariff was fied without statutory authority; hence the officers were
not chargeable, as a matter of law, with knowledge of it. P. 447.
2. To recover in the Court of Claims the reasonable value of service
rendered the Government, the claimant must prove its value.
P. 448.
60 Ct. Cls. 662, affirmed.

CERTIORARI (270 U. S.103) to a judgment of the Court
of Claims rejecting the petitioner's claim on account of
transportation service rendered to the United States.

Mr. William R. Harr,with whom Mr. Charles H. Bates
was on the brief, for the petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

Assistant Attorney General Galloway, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner brought suit in the Court of Claims to recover for the transportation over its lines of several shipments of military impedimenta, made by the War Department in 1916 and 1917. The court allowed recovery for
five items and denied recovery for certain others, which
are alone the subject of controversy here. This Court
granted certiorari. 270 U. S. 103, 107; ยง 3(b) Ac of
February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 939.
Some of the lines of petitioner were constructed with
the aid of land-grants by the United States under acts of
Congress requiring land-aided railroads to transport
troops, munitions of war, and property of the United
States at rates not exceeding fifty per cent. of those paid
by private shippers for the same kind of service, ยง. 11,
18, Act of July 27, 1866, c. 278, 14 Stat. 297, 299; see also
Appropriation Acts for army transportation for years
1916-1917; Act of March 4, 1915, c. 143, 38 Stat. 1076,
1077; Act of August 29, 1916, c. 418, 39 Stat. 633, 634.
At the time of the transportation, the tariff in force on
petitioner's road available to the public at large, Western
Classification, 54 I. C. C. No. 12, did not include any of
the items of military impedinenta here involved. But
petitioner then had on file with the Interstate Commerce
Commission a special tariff applicable to such items when
carried by passenger train or expedited service, without
deduction for shipments made over land-aided or landgrant roads.
Petitioner presented its bills for the expedited service in
transporting the items controverted, on the basis of the
rates fixed by this tariff, without deduction. The accounting officers of the government allowed the claim at a

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. UNITED STATES.
445

447

Opinion of the Court.

lower rate corresponding to the schedule embraced in the
Western Classification applicable to emigrant movables
carried by ordinary freight trains, and payment thus computed with land-grant deductions was received by petitioner under protest.
The Court of Claims held that the rate on emigrant
movables was inapplicable and that petitioner did not
establish a lawful rate by leaving a special tariff schedule
with the Interstate Commerce Commission, since there
is no provision of law requiring or permitting the filing
of tariffs applicable only to government transportation.
But it is argued here as it was below, that since there was
no rate open to the public applicable to the items involving expedited service, the shipments by representatives
of the War Department, following the filing of the special
tariff for that service, must be taken to establish an implied agreement to pay the special tariff rate. And further, since the agreed rate was not open to the public,
there could be, by the very terms of the applicable acts
of Congress, no land-grant deductions.
This reasoning omits a step essential to the imposition
of a contractual liability upon the government, for it
points to no fact found from which assent of the shipper
to the special tariff rate could be inferred. The Court of
Claims found that there was no express agreement that
the shipments were based upon the special tariff, and that
there was no proof that the contracting officers had any
knowledge of the tariff at the time of the shipments. Obviously they cannot be held to have yielded assent to a
tariff of which they were ignorant. A basis for a contract implied in fact to pay the rate charged is therefore
wanting. In this respect the case differs from those in
which a recovery was allowed where there was no lawful
tariff and the shipments were made with knowledge on the
part of the government representatives of the rates published by the carrier. Compare Yazoo & Miss. Valley
R. R. v. The United States, 54 Ct. Cls. 165.

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Parties.

272 U. S.

Nor were the representatives of the War Department
chargeable as a matter of law with knowledge, which they
did not in fact possess, of a tariff which was not required
to be filed. The ordinary consequences that attend the
filing of a schedule of rates with the Interstate Commerce
Commission as demanded or permitted by statute, cf.
Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Chicago
& Alton R. R. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155, cannot be invoked
by the carrier merely because it lodged a special tariff with
the commission without statutory authorization. Illinois Central R. R. v. The United States, 58 Ct. Cls. 182.
Petitioner is in no better situation with respect to its
asserted right to recover the reasonable value of its services. The burden was upon it to establish their value.
The record contains no finding of the reasonable value of
these services, and petitioner failed, as the court below
found, to offer any proof of the reasonableness of the rate
which it sought to apply.
Judgment affirmed.

BRASFIELD ET

AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 243.

Argued October 13, 1926.-Decided November 22, 1926.

1. An inquiry, put by the trial judge to a jury unable to agree, asking
the extent of its division numerically, is per se ground for reversal.

P. 449.
2. Failure of counsel to particularize an exception to such an inquiry
does not preclude this Court from correcting the error. P. 450.
8 F. (2d) 472, reversed.

CERTIORARI (269 U. S. 550) to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming a conviction in a prosecution
for conspiracy.

Mr. John W. Prestonfor the petitioner, submitted.

