CASES AIJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
UNITED STATES v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION,
INC.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 127. Argued December 9, 10, 11, 1925M-Decided October 11,
1926.

1. A decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, entered prior to the
taking effect of the Jurisdictional Act of February 13, 1925, and

affirming dismissal on the merits of a bill by the United States to
set aside, as unauthorized and fraudulently procured, sales of
patent and other rights and properties seized pursuant to the
Trading with the Enemy Act, was reviewable by this Court on
appeal (Jud. Code §§ 128, 241). Certiorari denied. P. 5.
2. The purpose of the Trading with the Enemy Act was not only
to weaken enemy countries by depriving their supporters of their
properties, but also to promote production in the United States
of things useful for the effective prosecution of the war. P. 9.
3. The Act should be construed liberally to effect its purposes. P. 10.
4. Congress has power to authorize seizure, and use or appropriation,
of enemy properties without compensation to their owners. P. 11.
5. Where German properties were seized and sold under the Trading
with the Enemy Act, the Act, (including its provision that, after
war, enemy claims shall be settled as Congress shall direct,) gave
the former owners no rights in, or to question the adequacy of,
the proceeds of sale. Moreover, the Treaty of Berlin prevents the
enforcement of any claim by Germany or its nationals against the
United States or its nationals, on account of such seizures and
sales. P. 11.
6. The Act, as amended, (§ 12,) vested the Alien Property Custodian with the powers of a "common law trustee" over all
234tS° -271
1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

property other than money taken over by him, with power, under
the President, to make any disposition of it, "by sale or otherwise," and to exercise any appurtenant rights or powers "in like
manner as though he were the absolute owner." A proviso regulated sales, requiring, inter alia, that they be public, to the
highest bidder,--" unless the President, stating the reasons therefor, in the public interest shall otherwise determine."
Held:
(1) That a disposition of enemy patents, made at private sale to
a corporation organized for the purposes of taking over and
holding them as a trustee for American industries affected, of
eliminating hostile alien interests and advancing chemical and
allied industries in the United States through licenses under the
patents free to the United States and upon equal terms to others,
was within the authority granted by the Act to the President
and the Custodian. P. 9.
(2) That empowering the President thus to determine the terms
of sale of enemy properties in the light of conditions arising in
the progress of the War, was not an unconstitutional delegation
of legislative power. P. 12.
7. Under § 5a, providing that the President may exercise any power
conferred on him by the Act "through such officer or officers as
he shall direct," the power to determine how enemy property
should be sold could be delegated; and this also is constitutional.
P. 13.
8. An order of the President under § 5a is not invalid because it
purports to "vest" the power in another, instead of "to act
through" him, nor because of its failure to show that he was an
officer, when he was in fact such, appointed by the President and
confirmed by the Senate. P. 13.
9. Orders made by the President's delegate describing enemy patents
which had been seized by the Alien Property Custodian, and
authorizing private sale thereof to the defendant "Foundation,"
held valid exercise of the President's power under § 12 of the
Act. P. 14.
10. Evidence claimed to show that such orders were induced by
misrepresentation and made without knowledge of material facts,
will not be reexamined in face of concurrent findings of two courts
below to the contrary. P. 14.
11. Such orders are supported by the presumption of official regularity, and the validity of reasons stated therein, or the basis of
fact on which they rest, will not be reviewed by the courts. P. 14.

UNITED STATES v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION.
1

3

Statement of the Case.

12. Order of the President held to have ratified and confirmed sales
and transfers of patents made by the Alien Property Custodian.
P. 15.
13. In making such an order, the President is presumed to have
known, and acted in the light of, the material facts. P. 16.
14. Section 41 of the Criminal Code lays down a general rule for the
protection of the United States in transactions between it and
corporations and to prevent its action from being influenced by
anyone interested adversely to it. It is a penal statute and is not
to be extended to cases not clearly within its terms or to those
exceptional to its spirit and purpose. P. 18.
15. Section 41 of the Criminal Code is inapplicable to affect the
validity of transactions carried out under authority conferred on
the President by the Trading with the Enemy Act, whereby enemy
patents were transferred, for prices less than their commercial
value, from the Alien Property Custodian, to the "Chemical
Foundation," a corporation, created as an instrumentality to
receive and subsequently control the patents in the public interest,
the Custodian being the president of the company, and others
representing the Government being also representatives of the corporation, but none of them interested in it financially. P. 17.
16. In such case the rule forbidding sale of trust property by the
fiduciary to himself or to a corporation of which he is the head
does not apply. P. 20.
17. In absence of statutory authority, stenographers' fees and expense of printing transcripts can not be adjudged against the
United States. P. 20.
18. This immunity from costs is a sovereign prerogative which can
not be waived by the Attorney General or other government
counsel in the case. P. 21.
19. Equity Rule 50 does not attempt to allow taxation of stenographers' fees against the United States. P. 20.
5 Fed. (2d) 191, modified and affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court (294 Fed.

300) dismissing the bill, on final hearing, in a suit
brought by the United States to set aside transactions
whereby patents, copyrights, etc., which had been
seized as enemy property, were transferred to the defendant corporation by the Alien Property Custodian,

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

acting, by direction of the President, under authority
conferred by the Trading with the Enemy Act.
Mr. Henry W. Anderson, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, and Assistant Attorney General
Galloway, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was
on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. Moorfield
Storey, Joseph H. Choate, Jr., William G. Mahaffy,
and Seiforde M. Stellwagen. were on the brief, for
appellee.
Mr. James A. Beha filed a brief as amicus curiae by
special leave of Court, on behalf of Friedrich Schott.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Suit was brought by the United States in the District
Court for Delaware to set aside sales made by it to the
Chemical Foundation of a number of patents, copyrights,
trademarks, and other similar properties-which for
brevity will be referred to as "patents"-seized pursuant
to the Trading with the Enemy Act of October 6, 1917, c.
106, 40 Stat. 411, as amended by the Act of March 28,
1918, c. 28, 40 Stat. 460, and the Act of November 4, 1918,
c. 201, 40 Stat. 1020, and other Acts. The complaint
alleges that a number of domestic manufacturers as a
result of war conditions had been able to combine and
monopolize certain chemical industries in this country;
and, fearing that at the end of the war German competition would destroy the monopoly, they conspired to bring
about transfers and sales of the patents at nominal prices
to themselves or to a corporation controlled by them; that
the patents so obtained would control the industries in
question and perpetuate the monopoly, and that the sales
were procured through the fraudulent deception of the
President, the Alien Property Custodian, and other offi-

UNITED STATES v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION.
1

5

Opinion of the Court.

cials. The answer denies conspiracy and fraud and
asserts that the transfers were made in good faith and
pursuant to law and that they are valid. There was a
trial at which much evidence was taken. The District
Court dismissed the complaint (294 Fed. 300); and its
decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 5 F.
(2d) 191. Both courts found that no unlawful scheme,
combination or conspiracy was shown, and that, there was
no deception or fraud. The United States took an appeal
under § 241, Judicial Code, and has applied for a writ of
certiorari under § 240. The decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals was entered March 26, 1925, prior to the taking effect of the Act of February 13, 1925, amending the
Judicial Code. C. 229, 43 Stat. 936. Since this is not a
case in which the decree of that court is made final by
§ 128, the United States had the right of appeal. The
application for certiorari is therefore denied.
The chemical industries in question are closely related
to the production of explosives, gases, and other things
directly used in waging war, as well as the production
of dyestuffs and medicines essential to the welfare of the
people. At the outbreak of the war many necessary
medicines and other substances as well as most of the
dyestuffs used in this country were imported from Germany or were manufactured under patents owned by
enemy Germans. The amount of such things here produced was small. Importations were hindered by the
blockatle, and ceased when this country entered the war.
To meet the demand, numerous plants were developed,
and, by 1910, chemicals, dyestuffs, medicines and the like
were being produced here in large quantities. A number
of associations of manufacturers were formed for the
advancement of such industries; they included in their
membership the producers of nearly all the dyestuffs and
like chemicals made in this country. Mr. A. Mitchell
Palmer was the Alien Property Custodian until he was

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

appointed Attorney General, March 4, 1919. In order to
protect the United States against enemy and foreign control of its chemical industries and to stimulate production
here, he favored the seizure and sale of the patents in
question. To that end, a number of conferences were
held between his representatives and those of the industries. The plan that was carried into effect was formulated under his direction.
In February, 1919, the Chemical Foundation was incorporated under the laws of Delaware. The certificate of
incorporation discloses that it was created and empowered
to purchase enemy-owned patents seized by the Custodian
and to hold the "property and rights so acquired in a
fiduciary capacity for the Americanization of such industries as may be affected thereby, for the exclusion or
elimination of alien interests hostile or detrimental to the
said industries, and for the advancement of chemical and
allied science and industry in the United States"; to grant
to the United States non-exclusive licenses to make, use
and sell the inventions covered by the patents, and also to
grant like licenses, on equal terms and without advantage
as between licensees, to American citizens and corporations under control of American citizens. The board of
directors is authorized to prescribe the terms and conditions of such licenses. It may refuse to issue any license
or may revoke any license granted by it. The corporation
is required to enforce its rights and to protect the rights
of its licensees. The authorized capital stock is $500,000,
consisting of 5,000 shares of the par value of $100 each;
4,000 shares constitute non-voting preferred stock, the
holders of which are entitled to a cumulative dividend of
six per centum per annum, and 1,000 shares constitute
the common stock, the holders of which are entitled to
dividends not exceeding six per centum per annum after
dividends on the preferred stock have been provided for.
The preferred stock is subject to redemption at par plus

UNITED STATES v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION.
1

7

Opinion of the Court.

accumulated dividends, if any, and after such redemption
net earnings not needed for working capital "shall be
used and devoted to the development and advancement
of chemistry and allied sciences, in the useful arts and
manufactures in the United States, in such manner as the
board of directors may determine." The holders of the
common stock have all the voting power. The certificate
provides that, without the approval of the board of directors, stockholders may not sell any of their stock. The
board of directors consists of three members. The executive officers are president, vice president, and a secretary
and treasurer. The president and vice president are
required to serve without pay. The shares of the Foundation were subscribed by those interested in the chemical
and dye industries. But a voting trust agreement was
made, pursuant to which all common stock was deposited
with, and all voting power was vested in, five trustees.
Directors and officers were chosen March 8, 1919. Francis
P. Garvan, Douglas I. McKay and George J. Corbett were
made directors and constituted the board. Mr. Garvan,
then Alien Property Custodian, was elected president.
Mr. McKay was elected vice-president, and Mr. Corbett
secretary and treasurer. Otto T. Bannard and four others
were made voting trustees. All the directors, officers and
voting trustees were chosen by or in accordance with the
direction of Mr. Palmer, given while he was Custodian.
The President, by executive order, December 3, 1918,
declared: " I hereby vest in Frank L. Polk all power and
authority conferred upon the President by the provisions
of Section 12" of the Trading with the Enemy Act as
amended. Mr. Polk was then Counselor for the Department of State, but was not so described in the order, He
made two orders, dated respectively February 26, 1919
and April 5, 1919, to authorize the Custodian to sell at
private sale to the Foundation, without advertisement, at
such places and upon such terms and conditions as to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

Custodian might seem proper, all patents found to relate
to the objects and purposes of the Foundation as expressed in its charter. These orders contained a statement
of the reasons therefor in the public interest. Briefly
they were: that the patents could not be sold to the best
advantage at public sale after advertisement; that the
Foundation had been incorporated to hold the patents
as a trustee for American industries affected by the patents, to eliminate hostile alien interests, and to advance
chemical and allied industry in the United States, and
that it was obligated to grant non-exclusive licenses upon
equal terms to qualified American manufacturers and was
empowered to grant free licenses to the United States;
that the public interest would be best served by a wide
use of the inventions, which most readily could be promoted by licenses which the Foundation was obligated to
grant; that a private sale would prevent the patents from
falling into the hands of purchasers unwilling or unable
to use the inventions, or who would use them for speculative purposes; that it would be impossible to make a public sale that would secure these benefits, and that a private
sale would avoid unnecessary expense, delay and inconvenience.
Prior to and contemporaneously with the organization
of the Foundation, the representatives of the chemical industries co~perated with those of the Custodian in making lists of the patents to be seized, and sold by the Custodian to the Foundation. Mr. Garvan, the Custodian,
from time to time commencing April 10, 1919, executed
and delivered to the Foundation various assignments of
the patents. The considerations paid by the Foundation
to the Custodian amounted in all to $271,850.00. The
President, February 13, 1920, made an executive order
which was held by both courts below to constitute a ratification of the transactions. And, pursuant to that order,
the Custodian confirmed the assignments theretofore
made.

UNITED STATES v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION.

9

Opinion of the Court.

We come to the question whether, as held below, the
Act, as amended March 28, 1918, empowered the President to authorize, and the Custodian under his supervision to consummate, these sales.
The pertinent provisions of the Act are in § 12 as
amended. "The alien property custodian shall be vested
with all of the powers of a common-law trustee in respect
of all property, other than money, which has been or shall
be, or which has been or shall be required to be, conveyed,
transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid over to him in
pursuance of the provisions of this Act, and, in addition
thereto, acting under the supervision and direction of
the President, and under such rules and regulations as
the President shall prescribe, shall have power to manage
such property and do any act or things in respect thereof
or make any disposition thereof or of any part thereof, by
sale or otherwise, and exercise any rights or powers which
may be or become appurtenant thereto or to the ownership thereof in like manner as though he were the absolute
owner thereof: Provided, That any property sold under
this Act, except when sold to the United States, shall be
sold only to American citizens, at public sale to the highest bidder, after public advertisement of time and place
of sale which shall be where the property or a major
portion thereof is situated, unless the President stating
the reasons therefor, in the public interest shall otherwise
determine: . . . [40 Stat. 460].
"After the end of the war any claim of any enemy or
of an ally of enemy to any money or other property received and held by the alien property custodian or deposited in the United States Treasury, shall be settled as
Congress shall direct: . . ." 40 Stat. 424.
It is conceded that when seized the patents belonged
to enemy Germans and that they were lawfully taken
over by the Custodian. The purpose of the Trading with
the Enemy Act was not only to weaken enemy countries

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

by depriving their supporters of their properties, (Miler
v. Robertson, 266 U. S. 243, 248), but also to promote
production in the United States of things useful for the
effective prosecution of the war. Section 10(c) authorized the President, if he deemed it for the public welfare,
to grant licenses to American citizens or corporations to
use any inventions covered by enemy-owned patents.
Subsection (c) of § 7 of the Act, as amended November
4, 1918, authorized the seizure of enemy-owned patents
and provided that all property so acquired should be held
and disposed of as provided by the Act. And there is
no ground for contending that the seizure and transfers
did not tend to lessen enemy strength and to encourage
and safeguard domestic production of things essential to
or useful in the prosecution of the war. There is nothing to support a strict construction of the Act in respect
of the seizure and disposition of enemy property. On
the other hand, contemporaneous conditions and war
legislation indicate a purpose to employ all legitimate
means effectively to prosecute the war. The law should
be liberally construed to give effect to the purposes it was
enacted to subserve.
As originally enacted, § 12 gave the Custodian in respect of properties in his possession "all of the powers of
a common-law trustee." He was authorized, acting under the supervision and direction of the President and
under rules and regulations prescribed by the President,
to manage the property and do any act or things in respect thereof, or make any disposition of it by sale or
otherwise, and to exercise any rights appurtenant to its
ownership, "if and when necessary to prevent waste and
protect such property and to the end that the interests
of the United States in such property and rights, or of
such person as may ultimately become entitled thereto,
or to the proceeds thereof, may be preserved and safeguarded." The Custodian was a mere conservator and

UNITED STATES v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION. 11
1

Opinion of the Court.

was authorized to sell only to prevent waste. But brief
experience made it clear that this restriction on the power
to dispose of enemy property sometimes operated to defeat the purpose of the Act and brought profit and advantage to the enemy. The amendment of March 28,
1918, eliminated the restriction upon the power of sale.
It stated that the other powers given were "in addition"
to those of a common-law trustee. And it authorized
the Custodian, under the President, to dispose of such
properties by sale or otherwise "in like manner as though
he were the absolute owner thereof."
There is no support for a construction that would restrain the force of the broad language used. Congress
was untrammeled and free to authorize the seizure, use
or appropriation of such properties without any compensation to the owners. There is no constitutional prohibition against confiscation of enemy properties. Brown
v. United States, 8 Cranch 110, 122; Miller v. United
States, 11 Wall. 268, 305, et seq.; Kirk v. Lynd, 106 U. S.
315, 316; Stoehr v. Wallace, 255 U. S. 239, 245; White v.
Mechanics Securities Corp., 269 U. S. 283, 300. And the
Act makes no provision for compensation. The former
enemy owners have no claim against the patents or the
proceeds derived from the sales. It makes no difference
to them whether the consideration paid by the Foundation was adequate or inadequate. The provision that,
after the war, enemy claims shall be settled as Congress
shall direct conferred no rights upon such owners. Moreover, the Treaty of Berlin prevents the enforcement of
any claim by Germany or its nationals against the United
States or its nationals on account of the seizures and sales
in question.*
While not denying the power to confiscate enemy properties, the United States argues that, as construed below,
*Part X, Section IV, Article 297, and Annex paragraphs 1 and 3,
Treaty of Versailles, adopted by Article II(1), Treaty of Berlin, 42
Stat. 1939, 1943.

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

the provision in question is unconstitutional because it
attempts to delegate legislative power to the Executive.
But the Act gave the Custodian, acting under the President, full power of disposition. No restriction was put
upon dispositions other than by sales. And sales to the
United States were not regulated. The general rule laid
down was, that all dispositions by sale or otherwise should
be made in accordance with the determinations of the
President; the proviso made an exception including a
class of sales; and, upon the failure of the President
otherwise to determine stating the reasons therefor in
the public interest, it required that such sales should be
made as there specified. It was not necessary for Congress to ascertain the facts of or to deal with each case.
The Act went as far as was reasonably practicable under
the circumstances existing. It was peculiarly within the
province of the Commander-in-Chief to know the facts
and to determine what disposition should be made of
enemy properties in order effectively to carry on the
war. The determination of the terms of sales of enemy
properties in the light of facts and conditions from time
to time arising in the progress of war was not the making
of a law; it was the application of the general rule laid
down by the Act. When the plenary power of Congress
and the general rule so established are regarded, it is
manifest that a limitation upon the excepted class is not
a delegation of legislative power. Field v. Clark, 143
U. S. 649, 692; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470,
496; Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364,
377; United States v. Grimaud,220 U. S. 506, 516.
The language of the statute is too plain to be misunderstood. Except as affected by the proviso, the Custodian's dominion over the property, and power to dispose of it-acting under the President as provided-were
as unlimited as are the powers of an absolute owner;
and the power of the President to determine terms and

UNITED STATES v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION. 13
1

Opinion of the Court.

conditions of sales or other disposition was not restricted.
He was authorized, stating the reasons therefor in the
public interest, to dispense with any or all requirements
specified in the proviso and to substitute others for them.
Cf. Levinson v. United States, 258 U. S. 198. When the
amended section is read in comparison with the original
enactment and regard is had to the chemical warfare and
other conditions existing at the time of the amendment,
March 28, 1918, the inevitable conclusion is, that it empowered the President to authorize, and the Custodian
acting under him to consummate, the sales in question.
The United States argues that the executive order of
December 3, 1918 was void, and that the one of February
13, 1920 did not authorize or ratify the transactions.
Section 5 (a) of the Act provides that "the President
may exercise any power or authority conferred by this
Act through such officer or officers as he shall direct."
The language of the executive order is: "I hereby vest
in Frank L. Polk all power and authority conferred upon
the President by the provisions of Section 12
"
Obviously all the functions of his great office cannot be
exercised by the President in person. The contention
that power to determine how enemy property should be
sold could not be delegated to another is not sustained.
This court has had occasion to consider a. like question in
Central Trust Co. v. Garvan, 254 U. S. 554, 567; Stoehr
v. Wallace, supra, 244, and Commercial Trust Co. v.
Miller, 262 U. S. 51, 53. These decisions sustain the
delegation here involved.
It is argued that the order was not made in conformity
with the statute because to "vest" power in another is
not to "act through " him, and because the order did not
show that Mr. Polk was an officer. But, if two constructions are possible, and one of them would render the order
useless and the other give it validity, the latter is to be
adopted. Cf. Panama R. R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U, S.

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 'U. S.

375, 390; United States v. Coombs, 12 Pet. 72, 75-76.
The intention to exert the power conferred under § 5 is
plain. Meticulous precision of language was not necessary. Russell Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 514, 523.
While the use of the word "vest" was not accurate, it
must be deemed sufficient when the context and circumstances are considered. Mr. Polk was an officer through
whom the President was authorized to act. He was Counselor for the Department of State, appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. United Stptes v. Germaine, 99 U. S. 508. No particular form of designation
was required. It would be unreasonable to read the order
otherwise than as meaning that, in respect of the matters
covered by § 12, the President determined to act through
Frank L. Polk, Counselor for the Department of State.
And the validity of each of the orders made by Mr.
Polk is attacked by the United States on the ground that
it was too broad and constituted an attempt to give to the
Custodian the very power granted to the President by the
Act; that is, the power to determine that enemy properties should be disposed of otherwise than as specified in
the proviso. But the contention cannot prevail. Each
of the orders sufficiently described the patents seized and
authorized a private sale to the Foundation without advertisement. This was enough to indicate a determination to take these sales out of the class covered by the proviso. And it is insisted that the orders were induced by
misrepresentation and were made without knowledge of
the material facts. But both courts found that the
United States failed to establish any conspiracy, fraud or
deception alleged. Findings of fact concurred in by two
lower courts will not be disturbed unless clearly erroneous. WashingtonSec. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 76,
78. Under this rule the findings must be accepted. The
presumption of regularity supports the official acts of
public officers and, in the absence of clear evidence to the

UNITED STATES v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION. 15
1

Opinion of the Court.

contrary, courts presume that they have properly discharged their official duties. Confiscation Cases, 20 Wall.
92, 108; United States v. Page, 137 U. S. 673, 679-680;
United States v. Nix, 189 U. S. 199, 205. Under that
presumption, it will be taken that Mr. Polk acted upon
knowledge of the material facts. The validity of the reasons stated in the orders, or the basis of fact on which
they rest, will not be reviewed by the courts. Dakota
Cent. Tel. Co. v. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 163, 184;
Monongahela Bridge v. United States, 216 U. S. 177, 195;
Martinv. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19, 30. Cf. Levinson v. United
States, supra, 201.
We agree with the lower courts that the sales and transfers of the patents were ratified and confirmed by the
President's order of February 13, 1920. It is urged that
there was no ratification because it is not shown that the
President had knowledge of the material facts; that he
did not intend to ratify the sales of patents, and that the
language used in the order is not broad enough to include
the patents, trademarks and copyrights in question.
The Polk order of February 26, 1919, described the
property covered as" all of the letters patent, trade-marks
and rights under letters patent and trade-marks, including all profits and damages . . . for the past infringement thereof which the Alien Property Custodian may
seize or may have seized . . . and which he from time
to time shall determine relate to the objects and purposes" of the Chemical Foundation. The President's
order of confirmation recites that the Polk orders authorized the Custodian to sell "certain choses in action
and rights, interests and benefits heretofore determined to
belong to, or to be held for, by, or on account of, or for
the benefit of persons heretofore determined to be
enemies." The language last quoted was used to define
the same properties that were covered by the Polk orders.
That is, "choses in action and rights," etc., were used to

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

include "letters patent, trade-marks," etc. The President's order also states that it was the intention of the
Polk orders to authorize the Custodian to sell "all choses
in action, rights, interests and benefits under agreements
and rights and claims of every character and description
including rights to receive moneys by way of royalties or
otherwise as compensation for the use of patents, trademarks or tradenames which the Alien Property Custodian
may have seized . . . and . . . determined to relate to

the objects and purposes" of the Foundation. It recites
that doubt had arisen as to the authority of the Custodian to sell and convey to the Foundation "certain of
the said choses in action," etc., "including rights to receive moneys by way of royalties or otherwise." And the
President expressly authorized the Custodian to sell at
private sale without public or other advertisement to the
Foundation upon such terms and conditions as to the
Custodian might seem proper " all choses in action, rights,
interests and benefits under agreements and rights and
claims of every character and description which the Alien
Property Custodian may seize or may have seized" under
the Act. The President further authorized the Custodian
by a suitable instrument to confirm and ratify sales theretofore made by him of any property as to which his authority under the Polk orders might be deemed doubtful.
And he stated that his reasons for the determination and
order were given in the Polk orders and in addition specified other reasons which need not be quoted.
This order authorizes sales of the patents to be made
and ratifies and confirms those theretofore made by the
Custodian. The President will be presumed to have
known the material facts and to have acted in the light
of them. His intention to ratify the sales is plain. The
comprehensive language used is broad enough to include
the patents. Moreover, the statement that his reasons
for the determination are given in the Polk orders shows

UNITED STATES v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION. 17
1

Opinion of the Court.

the intention to cover the properties there referred to.
As the transactions in question were ratified, it is unnecessary to consider the objections made by the United
States to the procedure of the Custodian under the Polk
orders.
The United States contends that the sales were void
because made in violation of § 41 of the Criminal Code,
35 Stat. 1088, 1097, and the rule of law forbidding sales
by a public officer or fiduciary of trust property in his
custody to himself or to a corporation of which he is the
head.
Section 41 provides: "No officer or agent of any corporation . . . and no . . . person directly or indirectly
interested in the pecuniary profits or contracts of such
corporation . . . shall be employed or shall act as an
officer or agent of the United States for the transaction
of business with such corporation . . ." Violators are
made punishable by fine and imprisonment. The United
States lays much stress on these facts: Mr. Garvan, while
director of the bureau of investigation, Joseph H. Choate,
Jr., chief of the chemical division of that bureau, and
Ramsey Hoguet, patent attorney for the Custodian, conferred with the representatives of the chemical industries
to arrange to make the seizures and sales of the patents.
Later, Mr. Garvan, then Custodian, acted for the United
States in making the transfers to the Chemical Foundation of which he was the President. Mr. McKay and
Mr. Corbett were directors and officers appointed by the
Custodian of various corporations of which he had taken
control. Before the transfers were made, Mr. Choate became the general counsel and Mr. Hoguet the patent
attorney of the Foundation. Mr. Bannard and the other
voting trustees were members of the Advisory Sales Committee-appointed by the President to see that sales of
enemy properties were fairly made to qualified buyers.
Without further reference to the facts relied on to sup2346,io-27-2

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

port its contention, we assume in favor of the United
States that those who acted for it in the transactions
complained of were at the same time directors and officers
of the corporation; that the members of the Advisory
Sales Committee, while they were voting trustees, participated in the fixing of the prices paid for the patents
by the Foundation, and that such prices were much less
than the value of the properties and would have been
inadequate to constitute just compensation if the patents
belonged to non-enemy owners and were taken for public
use under the power of eminent domain.
Section 41 was enacted when there was no war, and
long before the Trading with the Enemy Act. It lays
down a general rule for the protection of the United
States in transactions between it and corporations and to
prevent its action from being influenced by anyone interested adversely to it. It is a penal statute and is not
to be extended to cases not clearly within its terms or to
those exceptional to its spirit and purpose. United States
v. Noveck, 271 U. S. 201; Baender v. Barnett, 255 U. S.
224, 226; Hawaiiv. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197, 212; United
States v. Kirby, 7 Wall. 482, 486; Bishop on Statutory
Crimes, (3d ed.), § 235. At the time of the enactment,
there were no enemy properties to be dealt with; and,
save the generality of the language used, there is nothing
to indicate a legislative purpose to deal with that subject.
The Trading with the Enemy Act is a war measure covering specifically, fully and exclusively the seizure and disposition of enemy properties. The authority of the
President to authorize sales and to determine terms and
conditions in lieu of those specified in the proviso, undoubtedly included the power to cause the Chemical
Foundation to be incorporated to purchase and hold the
patents, as specified, and to direct the selection of the
directors, officers and voting trustees. The President,
and under him the Custodian, acting for the United

UNITED STATES v. CHEMICAL FOUNDATION. 19
I

Opinion of the Court.

States, the seller of the patents, caused the Foundation
to be created to buy and hold them, and caused it to
be controlled by officers or representatives of the United
States acting exclusively in its interest. Neither Mr.
Garvan nor any of the others who acted for the United
States had any financial interest in the Foundation, its
profits or its contracts. All the corporate shares were
subscribed and paid for by others---those interested in
the chemical industries. They furnished the money to
carry out the plan formulated by or under the direction
of Mr. Palmer while he was Custodian. Under the voting trust agreement, shareholders were divested of all
voice in the control, business, or affairs of the corporation.
All shares are to be held by the voting trustees for 17
years, within which all patents will expire. And, by
charter provisions, dividends were limited to six per
centum per annum. Transferable certificates of beneficial interest were issued by the trustees to the shareholders, but these cannot be used to control the corporation. The arrangement was intended to amount to a
public trust for those whom the patents will benefit and
for the promotion of American industries, and to give to
them the right to have on equal and reasonable terms
licenses to make, use and sell the inventions covered by
the patents. The Foundation is properly to be considered an instrumentality created under the direction of
the President to effect that disposition and subsequent
control of the patents which he determined to be in the
public interest. The transactions complained of did not
involve any of the evils aimed at by § 41. The Act will
be construed and applied as not qualified or affected by
that provision of the Criminal Code. Utah Power &
Light Co. v. United States, 243 U. S. 389, 406; Kepner v.
United States, 195 U. S. 100, 125; Townsend v. Little,
109 U. S. 504, 512; In re Rouse, Hazard & Co., 91 Fed.
96, 100. And, as the power to dispose of the properties

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 IT.S.

by sales on the terms and conditions specified was included in the grant made by the statute, it follows that
the rule in respect of sales of trust properties by fiduciaries does not apply.
Before the commencement of the trial, the District
Court found that it was necessary that the testimony be
taken down in shorthand and transcribed, and appointed
an official stenographer for that purpose; and it was ordered that his fees be ultimately taxed as a part of the
costs. By another order, counsel consenting, the court
directed that the expense of printing 100 copies of the
transcript, to be available for use in that court and on
appeal, be advanced from time to time and borne in equal
amounts by the parties and form a part of the taxable
costs. The decree directs that the Chemical Foundation
recover from the United States the money advanced by
the Foundation on account of such fees and expenses, and
orders the amount to be taxed as costs in the case. The
government insists that this is erroneous.
The general rule is that, in the absence of a statute
directly authorizing it, courts will not give judgment
against the United States for costs or expenses. United
States v. Hooe, 3 Cranch 73, 91, 92; Shewan and Sons v.
United States, 267 U. S. 86; United States v. Davis, 54
Fed. 147, 152, et seq. But the Foundation insists that
under Equity Rule 50, taken with the consent of counsel
and the orders, the court was authorized to direct that
these items be taxed as costs and to give judgment against
the United States therefor.
Equity Rule 50 in general terms provides that stenographers' fees shall be fixed by the court and taxed as costs,
but it does not specify costs or judgment for money
against the United States. The rule does not mention
the United States and does not affect the sovereign prerogative not to pay costs. Congress alone has power to
waive or qualify that immunity. But no statute author-

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.

21

Syllabus.

izes the giving of judgment against the United States
for these items or authorizes the Attorney General or
other counsel in the case to consent to such a judgment.
No such authority is necessary for the proper conduct of
litigation on behalf of the United States, and there is no
ground for implying that authority. It-follows that the
-direction for judgment against the United States for costs
cannot be sustained. That part of the decree will be
eliminated; and the decree, so modified, will be affirmed.
Decree modified and affirmed as modified.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR. JUSTICE STONE took

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS; UNITED STATES, INTERVENOR.
IN EQUITY.

No. 6, Original. Argued November 25, 1925.-Decided October 11,
1926.
1. The effect of a decree as an adjudication conclusive upon the
parties, is not to be determined by isolated passages in the
opinion considering the rights of the parties, but upon an examination of the issues made and intended to be submitted, and which
it was intended to decide. P. 42.
2. In the "Greer County Case," (United States v. Texas, 162
U. S. 1), it was conclusively determined that the boundary line
between Texas and the territories of the United States followed
the line of the true 100th meridian from its intersection with the
South Fork of Red River, but the precise location of the meridian
line was left open. P. 39.
3. A boundary line between two governments which has been run
out, located and marked upon the earth, and afterwards recognized and acquiesced in by them for a long course of years, is
conclusive, even if it be ascertained that it varies somewhat from
the correct course; the line so established taking effect, in such
case, as a definition of the true and ancient boundary. P. 44.

