UNITED STATES v. N. Y. CENT. R. R.
451

Syllabus.

tion to Farresly, 40, added in the later editions of Hawkins, is the case of Queen v. Templeman in Salkeld to which
reference has already been made.
We think it clear, therefore, that the contention now
pressed upon us not only fails of support in judicial decisions, other than those of the seventh circuit already
noticed, but its historical background is too meager and
inconclusive to be persuasive in leading us to adopt the
limitation as one recognized by the common law.
Undoubtedly a court may, in its discretion, mitigate the
punishment on a plea of nolo contendere and feel constrained to do so whenever the plea is accepted with the
understanding that only a fine is to be imposed. But
such a restriction made mandatory upon the court by
positive rule of law would only hamper its discretion and
curtail the utility of the plea.
Judgment affirmed.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. NEW YORK CENTRAL
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 284.

Argued October 29, 1926.-Decided November 22, 1926.

1. The jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission, under
§ 6, par. 13 of the Act to Regulate Commerce as amended, to
compel a railroad carrier to provide transportation service between the public terminal of a barge canal and points on the
railroad and its connections, may be invoked by a State which
owns the canal and maintains it for the free use of the public,
but which does not itself operate it as a carrier. P. 462.
2. Where the rail connection already exists, an order requiring the
railroad to furnish the transportation at its own expense may be
made without the presence of a water carrier. P. 464.
3. Such an order, under the statute, may extend to the entire current
of commerce, flowing through the terminal, though intrastate in
part. P. 464.
13 F. (2d) 200, reversed

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court enjoining
the enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission requiring the New York Central Railroad
Company to furnish transportation service between a terminal of the Erie Canal and the lines and connections of
the railroad.

Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on
the brief, for the United States.
Mr. P. T. Farrell for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Robert E. Whalen, with whom Mr. Charles C.
Paulding was on the brief, for the appellee.
MR.JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The State of New York, by its Superintendent of Public Works, in a complaint filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, sought to compel the New York Central Railroad Company to provide transportation service
between the public terminal of the Erie Barge Canal at
Buffalo and shippers located along its tracks and along
the lines of other railroads with which it can interchange
traffic. The service demanded included the furnishing
of rolling stock, motive power, and the placing and removal of cars on the tracks within the terminal, incident
to moving traffic between the terminal and appellee's
lines. The jurisdiction of the commission was invoked
under § 6, par. 13, of the Interstate Commerce Act as
amended by the Panama Canal Act; August 24, 1912, c.
390, 37 Stat. 568, and §§ 412, 413, Transportation Act;
February 28, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 483.'
"'When property may be or is transported from point to point in
the United States by rail and water through the Panama Canal or
otherwise, the transportation being by a common carrier or carriers,

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. CENT. R. R.
457

459

Opinion of the Court.

A similar application had been made to the Public
Service Commission of New York (Second District). The
order of the commission granting this relief was vacated
by the state Supreme Court on the ground that the traffic
and not entirely within the limits of a single State, the Interstate
Commerce Commission shall have jurisdiction of such transportation
and of the carriers, both by rail and by water, which may or do
engage in the same, in the following particulars, in addition to the
jurisdiction given by the Act to regulate comiterce, as amended June
eighteenth, nineteen hundred and ten:
(a) To establish physical connection between the lines of the rail
carrier and the dock at which interchange of passengers or property
is to be made by directing the rail carrier to make suitable connection

between its line and a track or tracks which have been constructed
from the dock to the limits of the railroad right of way, or by directing either or both the rail and water carrier, individually or in connection with one another, to construct and connect with the lines of

the rail carrier a track or tracks to the dock. The Commission shall
have full authority to determine and prescribe the terms and conditions upon which these connecting tracks shall be operated, and it
may, either in the construction or the operation of such tracks, determine what sum shall be paid to or by either carrier: Provided, That
construction required by the Commission under the provisions of this
paragraph shall be subject to the same restrictions as to findings of
public convenience and necessity and other matters as is construction
required under section 1 of this Act.
(b) To establish through routes and maximum joint rates between

and over such rail and water lines, and to determine all the terms and
conditions under which such lines shall be operated in the handling
of the traffic embraced.
(c) To establish proportional rates, or maximum, or minimum, or
maximum and minimum proportional rates, by rail to and from the
ports to which the traffic is brought, or from which it is taken by

the water carrier, and to determine to what traffic and in connection
with what vessels and upon what terms and conditions such rates
shall apply.

....

The Panama Canal Act also provides:

"The orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission relating to
this section shall only be made upon formal complaint or in proceedings instituted by the Commission of its own motion and after full

hearing."

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

concerned was interstate in character, jurisdiction over
which under the statutes already cited was in the Interstate Commerce Commission. People ex rel. New York
Central R. R. v. Public Service Commission, 198 App.
Div. 436; affirmed without opinion, 232 N. Y. 606.
In the proceedings before the Interstate Commerce
Commission, two barge carriers, neither of which had
filed rates with it or the Public Service Commission of
New York, intervened and were made parties on their
petitions setting forth that the interchange of traffic
sought to be established by complainant was essential to
their business.
After a full hearing the commission granted the relief
sought. State of New York v. New York Central R. R.,
95 I. C. C. 119. The railroad company then filed a bill
in equity in the District Court for northern New York
to enjoin the enforcement of the commission's order.
The case was heard on the record of the Interstate Commerce Comnission proceedings by the District Court,
three judges sitting, Urgent Deficiencies Act; October 22,
1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 220; Lambert Co. v. Balt. & Ohio
R. R., 258 U. S. 377; which granted the injunction. 13
Fed. (2d) 200. The case comes here by direct appeal.
Urgent Deficiencies Act, supra.
The State of New York built, owns and controls the
Erie Barge Canal and terminals, wharves and docks used
in connection with it, including the Erie Basin terminal
at Buffalo. The canal extends eastwardly from Buffalo
by a circuitous route to the Hudson River and has several
branches. The State does not own barges or rolling,
stock; nor does it transport merchandise or operate the
canal, but it maintains this waterway with its facilities
open to free public use. About 75 per cent. of the traffic
passing over it is interstate.
The Erie Basin terminal, having an area of 9.25 acres, is
located on the harbor of Buffalo, adjacent to the right-of-

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. CENT. R. R.
457

Opinion of the Court.

way of the railroad company. It includes two concrete
piers with equipment for loading and unloading freight,
and five thousand feet of railway track, with sidings,
switches and storage tracks. There is a physical connection by switching tracks between the terminal and appellee's lines, which was made in 1919 under a contract
between the Director General of Railroads and the State
of New York. The New York Central's main road between Buffalo and New York City parallels the barge
canal and serves important points reached by it or its
connections. The effect of appellee's refusal to perform
the transportation service ordered by the Commission is
to preclude the interchange of traffic between rail carriers and barge canal carriers at Buffalo, and incidentally
to avoid the diversion to the canal of a substantial
amount of traffic now passing over the lines of the railroad company to and from industries located along its
right-of-way.
In granting the injunction, the district court disregarded
the intervention of the two canal carriers on the ground
that they were not shown to be engaged in interstate commerce. Section 6, par. 13, of the amended Interstate
Commerce Act insofar as it confers authority on the commission to order the operation of the connecting tracks
and to determine the sum to be "paid to or by either carrier" was construed to require the presence of two carriers
before the commission subject to its jurisdiction. It
therefore held that the commission was without jurisdiction to grant the relief sought because there were not two
carriers before it, and further, that the complainant, a
sovereign State, as owner of the terminal but not a carrier,
was beyond its regulatory powers, and presumably could
not invoke its jurisdiction.
We lay to one side the question whether the intervenors
within the meaning of these Acts are carriers of property
which "may be or is transported from point to point in

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S

the United States . . . not entirely within the limits of
a single State." Nor need we consider to what extent, if
at all, the State of New York in the event of its failure
to maintain its tracks or facilities is beyond the regulatory or coercive power of the commission as asserted below. Cf. Georgia v. Chattanooga,264 U. S.472; Bank of
United States v. Planters'Bank, 9 Wheat. 904, 907.
The jurisdiction of the commission in this case was
-properly invoked. A state, when its interests axe concerned, as well as a private individual, whether carrier or
not, may file a complaint with the commission. Interstate Commerce Act, § 13, as amended June 18, 1910,
c. 309, 36 Stat. 550. Moreover a complaint is not a
prerequisite to the exercise of jurisdiction by the commission. It may of its own motion investigate and act
upon any matter which may be the subject of complaint (with, exceptions not now relevant), § 13, par. 2,
Interstate Commerce Act, as amended; Panama Canal
Act, supra, at p. 568. Hence the only question that need
be considered here is the power of the commission, assuming there was but one carrier before it, to issue the order
now attacked.
The Panama Canal Act is by its terms supplemental to
the Act to Regulate Commerce, and its obvious purpose
was to extend to rail carriers connecting with water carriers in interstate commerce the requirements of § 1,
par. 9 of the earlier acts, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 585, 586; c.
309, 36 Stat. 547, for furnishing switching and car service
to lateral branch railroads and private sidetracks. By
§ 6, par. 13, so far as pertinent to the present inquiry,
the conmmission is given authority to establish physical
connection between the lines of the rail carrier and the
dock of the water carrier, and to determine and prescribe
the terms and conditions upon which the connecting
tracks should be operated. It "may either in the construction or the operation of such tracks determine what
sums shall be paid to or by either carrier."

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. CENT. R. R.
457

463

Opinion of the Court.

We may assume, without deciding, that the commission
may not determine the amount to be paid to or by either
carrier concerned without having both before it. But the
commission is not required by the terms of the statute to
make such a determination and here it did not do so. A
determination with respect to construction costs was not
necessary since the physical connection had already been
established. There could be no need for directing a contribution of operating expenses since the rail carrier was
ordered to furnish the entire car service. It was free to
establish such rates as it deemed reasonable, subject to
review by the commission if necessary. The only parties
concerned in the order actually made were those before
the commission: appellee, which was required to furnish
the service, and the State of New York, whose terminal
facilities were thus to be used. To have required the
presence of one or more canal carriers before the commission for the purpose of making this order would have
been an idle ceremony. The construction of the Act contended for is unwarranted by its language and incompatible with its purpose to create an administrative body
with authority to facilitate the interchange of interstate
traffic between rail and water carriers by a less formal
procedure than prevails in courts of law. We conclude
that the commission had authority to make the order and
that its findings were supported by the evidence.
We have fully considered other objections to the order
but only one is of sufficient moment to require mention.
It is argued that the jurisdiction conferred by § 6, par. 13,
is limited to interstate transportation while the order
directs transportation of both interstate and intrastate
traffic. By the terms of this section, the commission is
given jurisdiction both of the transportation described
and of the carriers, rail and water, engaged in such transportation. By definition, transportation includes " . . .
all instrumentalities and facilities of shipment or carriage,

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

irrespective of ownership . . . and all services in connection with the receipt, delivery, . . . and transfer in
transit, . . . and handling of property transported," § 1,
par. 3, Transportation Act, supra,at pp. 474-475.
The commission having jurisdiction over the carriers
and the facilities by which the transportation is carried
on, the question is narrowed to whether its jurisdiction
extends to the entire current of commerce flowing through
this terminal although intrastate in part. When we consider the nature and extent of the commingling of interstate and intrastate commerce, and the difficulty of segregating the freight passing through the terminal, we think
it clear that Congress in employing such broad language
as "the commission shall have full authority to determine
and prescribe the terms and conditions upon which these
connecting tracks shall be operated" intended to confer
upon the commission power to regulate the entire stream
of commerce. Where, as here, interstate and intrastate
transactions are interwoven, the regulation of the latter
is so incidental to and inseparable from the regulation of
the former as properly to be deemed included in the
authority over interstate commerce conferred by statute.
This was the view of the state court. People ex rel. New
York Central R. R. v. Public Service Commission, supra.
Cf. State of Coloradov. United States, 271 U. S. 153; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Goodrich Transit Co.,
224 U. S. 194; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. v. United States,
263 U. S. 456, 485; Texas & Pac. Ry. v. Gulf, etc., Ry.,
270 U. S. 266. An interpretation of the statute which
would in practice require the segregation of all shipments
in interstate commerce would make compliance with the
commission's orders impossible and defeat the purpose of
the Act.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

