554

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

272 U. S.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. WESTERN.
MEAT COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

THATCHER MANUFACTURING COMPANY
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION.

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

SWIFT & COMPANY v. FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

Nos. 96, 213, 231. Argued October 25, 26, 1926.-Decided November
23, 1926.
Section 7 of the Clayton Act, October 15, 1914, forbids corporations
engaged in interstate commerce to acquire stock of other corporations, so engaged, where the effect may be substantially to lessen
competition between them or to restrain such commerce or tend
to create a monopoly in it. Section 11 authorizes the Federal
Trade Commission to enforce this, as respects corporations other
than common carriers, banks and trust companies, and empowers
it to order a corporation found violating it to "cease and desist
from such violations, and divest itself of the stock held," etc.
Held,
1. When a corporation has unlawfully acquired all the stock of a
competitor, but not its plant or other property, the order properly
directs it to divest itself of the stock ownership in such wise as wil!
restore competition, and not leave the corporation in control of the
competitor's property, as would happen if it first used the stock to
secure such control, and then divested itself of the stock by dissolving the other corporation. P. 557.
2. But where a corporation unlawfully buys its competitor's stock
and through it acquires the competitor's property, before the Commission takes action, the Commission is not empowered by the
statute to order the corporation to divest itself of the property;

FED. TRADE COM. v. WESTERN MEAT CO.
554

555

Counsel for Parties.

but the remedy, if an unlawful status has resulted, is in the Courts,
under the Sherman Act. Pp. 560, 561.
4 F. (2d) 223, modified and affirmed.
5 F. (2d) 615, affirmed in part, reversed in part.
8 F. (2d) 595, reversed.

CERTioRAaI (268 U. S. 685; 269 U. S. 546; 269 U. S.
548) to review decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals in
proceedings taken in that court under the Federal Trade
Commission and Clayton Acts.
No. 96 was a petition by the Western Meat Company
to review an order of the Commission requiring the company to divest itself of stock of a competing corporation.
The Commission's order was affirmed, with a modification; and the decree is here affirmed with the modification eliminated.
No. 213 was a petition by the Commission to the court
below, to enforce a similar order against Thatcher Manufacturing Company. The decree of the court below is
here reversed, in so far as it sustained the order.
No. 231 was a petition by Swift & Company to review
a similar order. The decree of the court below sustaining the order is here reversed.
Mr. Adrien F. Busick, with whom Messrs. Bayard T.
Hainer and James M. Brinson were on the brief, for the
petitioner in No. 96 and the respondent in Nos. 213 and
231.
Mr. Edward I. Barry, with whom Messrs. Frank L.
Horton, Jeremiah F. Sullivan, and Theo. J. Roche were
on the brief, for the respondent in No. 96.
Mr. Herbert Knox Smith for the petitioner in No. 213.
Mr. James M. Sheean, with whom Messrs. Albert H.
Veeder, Henry Veeder, and Frank L. Horton were on the
brief, for the petitioner in No. 231.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 T. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.

I

These causes necessitate consideration of the power of
the Federal Trade Commission where it finds that one
corporation has acquired shares of a competitor contrary
to the inhibition of the Clayton Act, approved October
15, 1914, c. 323, 38 Stat. 730, 731. That Act provides"SEc. 7. That no corporation engaged in commerce
shall acquire, directly or indirectly, the whole or any part
of the stock or other share capital of another corporation
engaged also in commerce, where the effect of such acquisition may be to substantially lessen competition between
the corporation whose stock is so acquired and the corporation making the acquisition, or to restrain such commerce in any section or community, or tend to create a
monopoly of any line of commerce.
"No corporation shall acquire, directly or indirectly, the
whole or any part of the stock or other share capital of two
or more corporations engaged in commerce where the
effect of such acquisition, or the use of such stock by the
voting or granting of proxies or otherwise, may be to substantially lessen competition between such corporations,
or any of them, whose stock or other share capital is so
acquired, or to restrain such commerce in any section or
community, or tend to create a monopoly of any line of
commerce . .. "
Section 8 forbids interlocking directors.
"SEC. 11. That authority to enforce compliance with
sections two, three, seven and eight of this Act by the
persons respectively subject thereto is hereby vested: in
the Interstate Commerce Commission where applicable
to common carriers, in the Federal Reserve Board where
applicable to banks, banking associations and trust companies, and in the Federal Trade Commission where ap-

FED. TRADE COM. v. WESTERN MEAT CO.
554

557

Opinion of the Court.

plicable to all other character of commerce, to be
exercised as follows:
"Whenever the commission or board vested with jurisdiction thereof shall have reason to believe that any person is violating or has violated any of the provisions of sections two, three, seven and eight of this Act, it shall issue
and serve upon such person a complaint . . . If upon
such hearing the commission or board, as the case may be,
shall be of the opinion that any of the provisions of said
sections have been or are being violated, it shall make a
report in writing in which it shall state its findings as to
the facts, and shall issue and cause to be served on such
person ["person" includes corporation] an order requiring such person to cease and desist from such violations,
and divest itself of the stock held or rid itself of the
directors chosen contrary to the provisions of sections
seven and eight of this Act, if any there be, in the manner
and within the time fixed by said order. . .
Section 5 of the Act to create a Federal Trade Commission, approved September 26, 1914, c. 311, 38 Stat.
717, 719, declares unfair methods of competition in commerce unlawful, prescribes the procedure to be followed,
and gives the Commission power to require an offending
party to cease and desist from such methods. This section
is not presently important; the challenged orders sought
to enforce obedience to § 7 of the Clayton Act.
II
No. 96. The Western Meat Company, a California corporation, and the Nevada Packing Company, of Nevada,
were interstate competitors engaged in manufacturing,
selling, and distributing meat products. December 30,
1916, the former purchased all stock of the latter and has
continued to hold it. In a proceeding begun November
24, 1919, the Commission found such purchase and con-

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

tinued ownership contrary to law and entered an order
directing"That the respondent, Western Meat Company, shall
forthwith cease and desist from violating the provisions
of Section 5 of said Act of Congress approved September
26, 1914, entitled, 'An Act to create a Federal Trade
Commission, to define its powers and duties, and for other
purposes,' and also the provisions of Section 7 of said
Act of Congress approved October 15, 1914, entitled, 'An
Act to supplement existing laws against unlawful restraints and monopolies, and for other purposes,' and
particularly to so divest itself absolutely of all capital
stock of the Nevada Packing Company as to include in
such divestment the Nevada Packing Company's plant
and all property necessary to the conduct and operation
thereof as a complete, going packing plant and organization, and so as to neither directly or indirectly retain any
of the fruits of the acquisition of the capital stock of said
Nevada Packing Company, a corporation.
"That in such divestment, no stock or property above
mentioned to be divested shall be sold or transferred,
directly or indirectly, to any stockholder, officer, director,
employee, or agent of, or anyone otherwise directly or indirectly connected with or under the control or influence
of, respondent or any of its officers, directors, or stockholders or the officers, directors or stockholders of any of
respondent's subsidiaries or affiliated companies."
The court below held this order went beyond the Commission's authority and directed that it be modified by
eliminating "the injunction against the acquisition by the
petitioner of the plant and property of the Nevada Packing Company."
Respondent maintains that the Commission's authority
is strictly limited by the statute and that where there
has been an unlawful purchase of stock it can do no more
than enter "an order requiring such person to cease and

FED. TRADE COM. v. WESTERN MEAT CO.
554

559

Opinion of the Court.

desist from such violations and divest itself of the stock
held." Also, that the Commission has no power to prevent or annul the purchase of & competitor's plant and
business, as distinguished from stock therein. Wilder
Manufacturing Co. v. Corn Products Refining Co., 236
U. S. 165, 174; Federal Trade Commission v. Beech-nut
Packing Co., 257 U. S. 441, 453; Federal Trade Commission v. Sinclair Refining Co., 261 U. S. 463, 475, are relied upon.
Without doubt the Commission may not go beyond the
words of the statute properly construed, but they must be
read in the light of its general purpose and applied with a
view to effectuate such purpose. Preservation of established competition was the great end which the legislature
sought to secure.
The order here questioned was entered when respondent actually held and owned the stock contrary to
law. The Commission's duty was to prevent the continuance of this unlawful action by an order directing
that it cease and desist therefrom and divest itself of
what it had no right to hold. Further violations of the
Act through continued ownership could be effectively prevented only by requiring the owner wholly to divest itself
of the stock and thus render possible once more free play
of the competition which had been wrongfully suppressed.
The purpose which the lawmakers entertained might be
wholly defeated if the stock could be further used for
securing the competitor's property. And the same result
would follow a transfer to one controlled by or acting for
the respondent.
Although the respondent held all the capital stock, the
plant and other property of the Nevada Packing Company had not been acquired. The Commission directed
that it so divest itself of all this stock as to include in
such divestment the Packing Company's plant and property necessary to the operation thereof, etc. Taken liter-

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 7U. S.

ally, this goes beyond the situation revealed by the record, but the order must be construed with regard to the
existing circumstances. Divestment of the stock must be
actual and complete and may not be effected, as counsel
for respondent admitted was intended, by using the control resulting therefrom to secure title to the possessions
of the Packing Company and then to dissolve it. Properly understood, the order was within the Commission's
authority, and the court below erred in directing the
elimination therefrom of the above-quoted words. Its
decree must be modified accordingly and then affirmed.
Modified and affirmed.
III
No. 21S. The Commission entered complaint against
the petitioner, March 1, 1921, and charged that the
latter contrary to § 7 of the Clayton Act, first acquired
the stock of four competing corporations-Lockport Glass
Company, Essex Glass Company, Travis Glass Company
and Woodbury Glass Company-and thereafter took
transfers of all the business and assets of the first three
and caused their dissolution, October 20, 1920, December
18, 1920, and January 13, 1921, respectively. Having
found the facts concerning a rather complicated series of
transactions, the Commission ruled that the acquisitions of
all these stocks were unlawful and ordered the petitioner
to cease and desist from ownership, operation, management and control of the assets, properties, rights, etc.,
of the Lockport, Essex and Travis Glass companies secured through such stock ownership, and to divest itself
of the assets, properties, rights, etc., formerly held by
them. Also, that it should divest itself of the stock of
the Woodbury Glass Company.
The court below held that the last-named company
was not in competition with petitioner within the meaning of the statute and modified the order accordingly.
Therein we agree and to that extent affirm its decree.

FED. TRADE COM. v. WESTERN MEAT CO.
554

561

Opinion of the Court.

The court further ruled, in effect, that as the stocks
of the remaining three companies were unlawfully obtained and ownership of the assets came through them,
the Commission properly ordered the holder so to dispossess itself of the properties as to restore prior lawful
conditions. With this we cannot agree. When the Commission institutes a proceeding based upon the holding of
stock contrary to § 7 of the Clayton Act, its power is
limited by § 11 to an order requiring the guilty person
to cease and desist from such violation, effectually to
divest itself of the stock, and to make no further use of
it. The Act has no application to ownership of a competitor's property and business obtained prior to any action by the Commission, even though this was brought
about through stock unlawfully held. The purpose of
the Act was to prevent continued holding of stock and
the peculiar evils incident thereto. If purchase of property has produced an unlawful status a remedy is provided through the courts. Sherman Act, c. 647, 26 Stat.
209; Act to Create a Federal Trade Commission, c. 311,
§ 11, 38 Stat. 717, 724; Clayton Act, c. 323, §§ 4, 15, 16,
38 Stat. 730, 731, 736, 737; United Stgates v. American
Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106. The Commission is without authority under such circumstances.
Affirmed in part; reversed in part.
IV
No. 231. A complaint against petitioner, filed November 24, 1919, charged that in 1917 and 1918 it had unlawfully obtained stock in two competing companies-Moultrie Packing Company and Andalusia Packing Companyand, thereafter, through the use of this, obtained title
to their business and physical property. The findings
support the charge. The Commission ordered23 46s--27-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

272 U. S.

That respondent, Swift & Company, within six calendar
months from and after the date of the service of a copy
of this order upon it, shall:
(1) Cease and desist from further violating Section
7 of the Clayton Act by continuing to own or hold, either
directly or indirectly, by itself or by any one for its use
and benefit, any of the capital stock of the Moultrie
Packing Company and of the Andalusia Packing Company, or either of them, and cease and desist from holding, controlling and/or operating, or causing to be held,
controlled and/or operated by others for its use and benefit, the former property and business either of the said
Moultrie Packing Company or of the said Andalusia Packing Company, which have been held, controlled and operated by respondent and its employes and agents, following and as a result of respondent's unlawful acquisition of
the capital stocks of said named corporations; and to that
end, respondent shall
(2) So divest itself of all the capital stocks heretofore acquired by respondent, including all the fruits of
such acquisitions, in whatever form they now are,
whether held by respondent or by any one for its use
and benefit, of the Moultrie Packing Company, a corporation, and of the Andalusia Packing Company, a corporation, or either of them, in such manner that there shall
not remain to respondent, either directly or indirectly,
any of the fruits of said acquisitions, including the control and/or operations of said corporations, or either of
them, resulting from such acquisitions and/or holdings of
such capital stocks.
(3) In so divesting itself of such capital stocks respondent shall not sell or transfer, either directly or indirectly,
any of such capital stocks to any officer, director, stockholder, employe or agent of respondent, or to any person
under the control of respondent, or to any partnership or

FED. TRADE COM. v. WESTERN MEAT CO.
554

BRANDEIS,

563

TArT, HoLMEs, and STONE, J. J., di&senting

corporation either directly or indirectly owned or controlled by respondent.
The court below denied a petition for review and the
matter is here by certiorari. As all property and business
of the two competing companies were acquired by the
petitioner prior to the filing of the complaint, it is evident
that no practical relief could be obtained through an order
merely directing petitioner to divest itself of valueless
stock. As stated in number 213, we are of opinion that
under §§ 7 and 11 of the Clayton Act the Commission is
without authority to require one who has secured actual
title and possession of physical property before proceedings were begun against it to dispose of the same, although
secured through an unlawful purchase of stock. The
courts must administer whatever remedy there may be in
such situation. The order of the Commission should
have been reviewed and set aside; and judgment to that
effect will be entered here.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS,

dissenting in part.

In my opinion, the purpose of § 7 of the Clayton Act
was not, as stated by the Court, merely "to prevent continued holding of the stock and the peculiar evils incident
thereto." It was also to prevent the peculiar evils resulting therefrom. The institution of a proceeding before
the Commission under § 7 does not operate, like an injunction, to restrain a company from acquiring the assets
of the controlled corporation by means of the stock held
in violation of that section. If, in spite of the commencement of such a proceeding, the company took a transfer
of the assets, the Commission could, I assume, require a
retransfer of the assets, so as to render effective the order
of divestiture of the stock. I see no reason why it should
not, likewise, do this although the company succeeded in
securing the assets of the controlled corporation before

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
272 U.S.

Counsel for Parties.

the Commission instituted a proceeding. Support for this
conclusion may be found in § 11, which provides for action
by the Commission whenever it "shall have reason to
believe that any person is violating or has violated any
of the provisions" of the earlier sections. (Italics ours.)
I think that the decrees in Nos. 213 and 231 should be
affirmed.

The

CHIEF

JUSTICE, MR. JusTicE

HOLMES

and MR.

JUsTIcE STONE join in this dissent.
PORT

GARDNER INVESTMENT
UNITED STATES.

COMPANY

v.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 173. Argued December 9, 1925; reargued October 19, 20, 192.Decided November 23, 1926.
The prosecution with effect, under § 26, Title II, of the National
Prohibition Act, of the driver of an automobile, for illegal possession and transportation of liquor therein, makes it mandatory to
dispose of the vehicle as prescribed by that section, and precludes
resort to forfeiture proceedings under Rev. Stats. § 3450. P. 566.

Response to question certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals upon a review by writ of error of a judgment of
the District Court forfeiting an automobile under Rev.
Stats. § 3450.
Mr. Duane R. Dills, with whom Messrs. Loren Grinstead, William T. Laube, James A. Laughlin, and Thomas
E. Davis were on the brief, for the Port Gardner Investment Company.
Assistant Attorney General Willebrandt for the United
States, in the original argument. Solicitor General
Mitchell for the United States on the reargument. Mr.
Mahlon D. Kiefer, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was also on the brief.

